Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: Fireworks In Dubai As 2023 Arrives; Crowds Gather In Mombasa, Kenya To Welcome 2023; Athens Preparing To Welcome 2023; World Honors Late Football Legend Pele; London Prepares For Fireworks Show; Latin America Marks New Years With Long-Held Traditions. Aired 3-4p ET

Aired December 31, 2022 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:00:00]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST: And we are about to all welcome in the New Year. Amy is still with us here as well. All this is good. We have correspondents, of course, around the globe as well. Give me a countdown in my ear, please, somebody. Let me know where we are at. We are 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, go. Happy New Year.
 
Wow. Well, what a display. I'm here with Clarence, with Pedro and with Amy. We've been talking soccer all night because that's what it's all been all about in this region in the back end of 2022. But just, what a result. It's always good, isn't it? It's always good New Year's Eve here. But that was particularly good.
 
AMY GILLINGHAM, UAE'S FIRST FEMALE FOOTBALL COMMENTATOR: I mean the UAE certainly knows how to set up firework or two.
 
ANDERSON: Thing is, here you see a lot of fireworks. So you feel like you get spoiled and then they always get a result on New Year's Eve.
 
CLARENCE SEEDORF, RETIRED DUTCH FOOTBALLER AND COACH: It's a touristic place as well, and it makes sure that tourists have something to look forward to. And It's every year spectacular really.
 
ANDERSON: New Year's resolutions, Clarence.
 
SEEDORF: Well, I keep it easy because at the end, for me, as I said, it's always about the journey. And the journey continues to work for peace, equality, inclusion, and have a lot of fun.
 
ANDERSON: You think I'm going to let you off with all of these.
 
SEEDORF: And have a lot of fun.
 
ANDERSON: So what you say on the New Year's Eve Resolution.
 
SEEDORF: No, no, no, no, no. We just continue to do what we've done. You know, it's another chapter, another year. And I wish everybody happy New Year. I wish you a happy New Year.
 
ANDERSON: Happy New Year cheers. SEEDORF: And CNN a Happy New Year, cheers to that.
 
ANDERSON: Happy New Year to you guys. Yes, I mean, you know, I resolutions I mean every year say I'm not going to have a New Year's resolution because I know I'm going to break it so I'm not going to ruin a habit of a lifetime. I'm going to stay exactly the same thing. Amy, what are your hopes and aspirations for 2023?
 
GILLINGHAM: I'd say, for me, my passion for football developing and helping continue to grow the football industry in the UAE and also help develop the women's game out here. I mean, we've seen so much development within the Euros this year. Obviously, we've got the 9th edition of the Women's World Cup next year. I think there's a real area for improvement and a real drive forward for the game out here, for the women's game.
 
ANDERSON: Very nice. Pedro?
 
PEDRO CORREIA, FOOTBALL COMMENTATOR: Well, in my case, I would go with Amy especially to see the UAE football to continue to thrive as it is, to develop as it is, the UAE Pro League, and also to expect that my favorite player in the whole time, Cristiano Ronaldo, would bring a huge impact to the game here in the Middle East, not only to Saudi, as I said before, but to the Middle East in general I hope.
 <br>[15:10:17]
 
ANDERSON: This is a total gift to you, isn't it?
 
GILLINGHAM: Yes.
 
ANDERSON: The fact that he's out in Saudi going forward.
 
CORREIA: And who knows, maybe because he comes Dubai a lot. I know he loves Dubai a lot. If he's around, maybe I can meet him for a cup of coffee. I would love it.
 
ANDERSON: I promised that you and I would talk about the foundation and the work that you do off the pitch. You had this phenomenal career on the pitch. Just talk to us about the work that you are currently doing on what you hope to achieve in 2023.
 
SEEDORF: Well, Becky, for me, as I said, it's really a life mission. The purpose is to really make a contribution to a better world. And we can do that through so many things, through our businesses, through philanthropy and obviously foundations, is a way to have a structured approach to the impact that we want to achieve. This year, Black Impact Foundation was the latest foundation that I founded. And we have achieved some amazing things, bringing the people together, but always looking at a bigger picture, which is to have that positive impact on the overall society.
 
I think that the black community needs to take their seat on the table in general, take things also by the hand, be critical also to the things that we should improve, that we can improve, which is really to increase the communication among ourselves, to have that trust rebuilt that was broken during the years.
 
But it's beautiful to see that is really happening, actually. We did a second summit a few weeks ago here in Dubai, where people from all over the globe and not only black people, because it's not a black only party. Everybody that feels that, you know, the black community deserves to have that own power and own say in the world for a better world, it's welcome to come on board. And this is just one of the things, and the other thing is obviously a focus is women. Women need to play a bigger role in society.
 
We know that the equality is so important. I've always been a really big supporter of the movement of equality, and equality goes for everybody. I don't want to give it a label, right, because that is very tiring, actually. I have three daughters myself. It's a world where that creativity, that different mindset, that extra women have, is needed for a better world as well.
 
And this is just of the things that I would like to continue to do besides continue to enjoy my sports, continue to enjoy football, and continue to have impact overall in anything I'm doing.
 
ANDERSON: You are welcome on this show, my show, which is Collect the World with Becky Anderson, any time to talk about the world.
 
SEEDORF: Thank you so much.
 
ANDERSON: It's absolutely inspiring.
 
SEEDORF: Thank you so much.
 
ANDERSON: Loving having you here tonight. Loving having you both as well.
 
SEEDORF: Thank you. It was amazing being with you.
 
ANDERSON: We'll going to take a very short break. Those fireworks, well, they're still ongoing. Of course they are, it's Dubai, they're ongoing. We're going to take a very short break. Back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:16:03]
 
ANDERSON: Well, that is Abu Dhabi and they are going for a record 40 minutes. I've been told that this display will go on. And look at that. Fantastic. Abu Dhabi for you at Water Pass midnight here in the UAE. We just welcomed in the New Year here in Dubai. We've got correspondents all around the globe. Scott McLean is in Istanbul, where the calendar turns over next hour. Larry Madowo is in Mombasa. There they are counting down to the New Year on the waterfront. Elinda is in Athens where we will see celebrations at the legendary Acropolis in the coming hours. And I've got Melissa Bell on the streets of central Paris for us. Where are we going to start? Let's start with you, Larry, down in Mombasa, superb part of the world. What's going on there? LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: All right, so, Becky, we're now down to maybe 44 minutes until midnight and when East Africa will be celebrating 2023. And this place just keeps filling up. I didn't imagine there's this much space left over, but people keep coming, more people bringing family, bringing kids. Some as young as I think that kid is probably a year old. But they keep bringing them up here because it's going to be a big firework celebration that we've been promised by the government here in Mombasa. So we wait and see what happens. But I want to hear from some of the people who are coming out here. I've got Naomi with me. You are -- you live in Nairobi, but you're back here in Mombasa. Why?
 
NAOMI ANYANGO, NAIROBI RESIDENT: OK. I came to celebrate the festive season with my family members. Yes.
 
MADOWO: Are you excited for 2023?
 
ANYANGO: Yes, I'm very excited.
 
MADOWO: What are you most excited for in the New Year?
 
ANYANGO: First of all, it sounds good, I'm alive. That is the most important thing. Another thing, I've achieved my goals, which I set for 2022, and I yet to set another goals. Yes.
 
MADOWO: Naomi, this is such a flex. You're saying I achieved my goals for 2022 when there's one poll, opinion poll out today that says 50 percent of Kenya state, 2022 was a bad year. It was a good year for you.
 
ANYANGO: OK. It's not that bad, specifically. OK. It is good for me because I've achieved some of my goals. Yes. That's why I say it's good for me. It can be bad for everyone, but it doesn't mean it also includes me. Yes.
 
MADOWO: That's wonderful. And finally, you're from Mombasa. For people who are hearing about the city for the first time, what's the most amazing thing about Mombasa?
 
ANYANGO: First of all, the coastal and the beaches. That's amazing about Mombasa. Another thing, they store coast sites like Potjeezas (ph) and Malidi (ph). Yes.
 
MADOWO: All right, Naomi, all the best for 2023. I want to brag like Naomi. It's like, yes, I achieved all my goals for 2022. I'm ready to rock into 2023. That's the energy we need for the New Year. This place, like I said, is filling up. I see lots of kids. The crowd and the celebrations are back there, and on the screens are televising. What is the traditional Kenyan President's New Year message? And often it's time to happen just before midnight. And even how popular is Mombasa, Becky, you're familiar with this area. Mombasa is so popular. Kenyan presidents also come to Mombasa for the end of the year. President William Ruto, who you spoke to recently, is also celebrating his New Year here at the Kenyan coast because that's what everybody does. The year ends, we all move to the Kenyan coast, and we're all kind of scrambling for the few hotel places available. We're all scrambling for the flights because we love it. We can let you come to the coast to welcome the New Year.
 
ANDERSON: Nice. And why not? I've got friends down at the coast tonight. And I know they'll be loving it. Enjoy. You are close, sir. You are just, what, just over half an hour away. Back to you. Top of the hour, journalist Elinda Labropoulou has covered the beauty and challenges of Greece for us for many years. Tonight, she's enjoying New Year's Eve in one of the world's most ancient cities, in the Greek capital of Athens. And, as I understand it, you got the mayor of Athens with you. Elinda? Can hear you me? Come in Elinda?
 <br>[15:20:16]
 
ELINDA LABROPOULOU, JOURNALIST: Yes, I can hear you.
 
ANDERSON: Come in Athens. Excellent. Take it away Elinda.
 
LABROPOULOU: So we're hearing Athens on this beautiful evening in the heart of Athens actually where big celebrations are taking place. We're about to have a big live performance starting very soon. And with us we have the mayor of Athens who can tell us all about what's going to happen in the city tonight. Mr. Bakoyannis, please do tell us what's happening tonight. This seems to be a very festive atmosphere.
 
KOSTAS BAKOYANNIS, ATHENS, GREECE MAYOR: It is. Well, good evening. It's wonderful that you're joining us. There's a lot of enthusiasm in the air. There's a lot of excitement. It's the first time we meet after a very long time, after the pandemic. And Athens is not just bouncing back. Athens responding forward with a lot of optimism and a lot of self-confidence.
 
LABROPOULOU: Why is it that makes Athens so special for a day like this? 
 
BAKOYANNIS: Well, imagine being in a city where you can actually literally choose the century you want to live in, whether it's in ancient times or in modern times. This is at the same time a modern, a vibrant, dynamic metropolis. And of course we are very proud of our ancient heritage, 330 days of sunshine per year. The beach is just a 20 minutes stripe. Here we are about to welcome the New Year and we don't need to wear any overcoats, nothing.
 
LABROPOULOU: You know, making it very difficult there. Thank you so much, Mr. Mayor.
 
BAKOYANNIS: Thank you.
 
LABROPOULOU: And so --
 
ANDERSON: Elinda, you coped magnanimously with that. Is that the word, magnanimously? You did brilliantly. I know that you haven't got any coms in your ear. The technical gremlins are with us tonight folks, but thank you. And that's the mayor of Athens, right? Melissa Bell is in Paris, the city of lights, just hours away from calling in the New Year. What's the vibe like there, Melissa?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN PARIS CORRESPONDENT: Let me show you Becky, we've got about three hours to go before it turns midnight here in Paris. Now the French like to think of the Champs-Elysees as the most beautiful avenue in the world. I'll let you judge for yourself. Have a look. It's all been decorated. We are expecting a light and sound show to begin in a couple of hours-time into the fireworks display that will see some 3,000 fireworks set off. And people are beginning to gather already.
 
You can see a lot of families turning up. It's pretty mild actually tonight. So people have come on mass. In fact, Becky, we're expecting half a million people here on the Champs-Elysees tonight to come and see in 2023. As you'd expect, security pretty tight. There's a lot of policemen around 5,400 are here in Paris to make sure that things go according to plan.
 
These guys have come all the way from Mexico. Tell us why Paris?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, because were talking then were a little child. We were dreaming about coming --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This day.
 
BELL: And it's the first time.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, it was the first time.
 
BELL: What do you guys think? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, it's beautiful. It's amazing. We are very happy to be here. It's a dream to us to be with you.
 
BELL: And you're looking forward to the fireworks?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, we are expecting that.
 
BELL: So we've got a couple of hours to go now, Becky. At midnight, before that, the sound and light display will take place and we're going to have those fireworks set off. It's the first time in three years that we've had the fireworks to stay here in Paris. It's a tradition, of course, but with COVID and so on, two years, it didn't happen at all. So Parisians as you can see, a lot of tourists here tonight who've come here for the end of the year to celebrate in Paris, really looking forward to what's coming here at midnight, Becky.
 <br>[15:24:10]
 
ANDERSON: Well, you're looking fab. Thank you. Paris is looking glorious, a couple of hours to go there before the top of their hour. We will be back with Melissa for more. Thank you, Mel. And we are going to take a very short break. Back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: All right. This is Abu Dhabi in the UAE. The Zayed Festival, which is conducting the largest fireworks show for 40 minutes, which I am told will break three Guinness World Records in terms of quantity, time and formation. In addition to the huge drones show that will break a number in the Guinness World Records using more than 3,000 drones and many other things going on in Abu Dhabi tonight. They do love a Guinness World record here. Clarence Seedorf is back with me. But before I get to you, sir, that on the left of your screen is the party at the Atikko Rooftop tonight here at the W Hotel. They are giving it some on New Year's Eve. In fact, it's New Year's Day. It is New Year's Day. It's January the 1st, Clarence. It's 2023.
 
SEEDORF: Welcome, 2023.
 
ANDERSON: We're going to have a good one.
 
SEEDORF: Hundred percent, 100 percent.
 
ANDERSON: Hundred present. Listen, we lost a sporting great, a footballing great. An icon, a legend this year, and I know that we had promised that we reserved some time while I've got you tonight to talk about the late great Pele. What made him so great?
 
SEEDORF: Well, he was the first. He was the first reel of everything. I mean, today we're looking at some players that are touching on Hollywood or, you know, film industry, big sponsorships, traveling around the world. He did all of that years and years and years ago. And then beyond that, his behavior off the pitch, the things he started to do socially, he was just an all-around legend and an icon for the sports, but real, an example to follow.
 
ANDERSON: We talked this week, and I want to get your judgment on this, about how he is, you know, joined the pantheon of greats who will be remembered for more than what they did. They transcend the area that they were in. And Pele being football, what he never did was get involved in politics. I was thinking about Muhammad Ali, who is the last sporting great that will be loved by, you know, generations around the world, and I'm talking about 10-year-olds as well as 90- year-olds.
 <br>[15:30:06]
 
Muhammad Ali was the last person I could remember. He got very involved in politics and for all the right reasons, Pele never, did he? But it brought people together, he really, I mean, I met him and you've met him, the humility, the warmth, the infectious smile.
 
CLARENCE SEEDORF, RETIRED DUTCH FOOTBALLER AND COACH: It's all about love. Yes. But, you know, the way he was carrying his career, he was getting involved in politics, but not directly. It was his way of being looking for peace, connecting the world, opening the doors for, you know, many to follow. And I believe that was his contribution, you know, to create equality. He started to open the doors for equality.
 
You know, the black players after him had a whole different perspective. The world looked at Brazil in a whole different way. When he traveled around the world, he literally would stop the country. That was this impact. So I believe that we should remember him, yes, for the three World Cup that he won, to be the best player, you know, that have ever played the game because he was so much, you know, in front of his -- ahead of his time, but especially because his amazing humanity. And that is the biggest impact that Pele made on me.
 
ANDERSON: As a footballer. And you were, I mean, people have told me to play against you was really quite something. I mean, again, innate talent, superior intelligence on the pitch. I thought I hear time and time again about you. When you look at him as a football player, as a complete football player, I think it was Erling Haaland this week who said, anything that you see, any of us do ever, Pele did first.
 
SEEDORF: Absolutely. Unfortunately, we don't have as much footage as we would have today, right? I've seen many videos of him and it's amazing that the thing, the creativity it had then, we're seeing now and we're all like, wow, wow, wow. But it was already delivered years and years ago. That is exactly why he used to go and that's why we all are so sad to see him leave, but also relieved in a certain way. I wrote this as well on my page, is that he has suffered for quite a long time and that's the last thing we want to see for some, for anybody, right? So I'm really relieved at the he rest peace now and no more pain.
 
ANDERSON: The late, great Pele is who we are, who we're talking about here. And there's a super shot there on the screen. I mean, you can't get enough of these images of this guy. It's just wonderful to see. We're going to take a very short break as CNN brings you New Year's celebrations. We're here in Dubai at the Attiko Rooftop. Big party going on here, the atmosphere is superb. In Abu Dhabi, the fireworks go on. They are trying to break a world record for a firework display that goes on for more than 440 minutes. So that continues as we speak. You're watching CNN. Back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:36:02]
 
ANDERSON: Well, this, ladies and gentlemen, is a firework display in Abu Dhabi, which has now been going on for 35 minutes. They are set to beat the Guinness world record if this continues for 40 minutes, what a display Abu Dhabi for you here in the UAE. You join us back here in Dubai, CNN following the action all around the world. In the coming hours, of course, London set to send a 2022 out with a bang. CNN's Anna Stewart looks at what it takes to make New Year's a success.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): To get a bang like this.
 
DARRYL FLEMING, TITANIUM FIREWORKS, DIRECTOR: And that burst with the final hit.
 
STEWART (voice-over): You need to start here.
 
(on camera): Wow.
 
FLEMING: This is the software that we use to design and choreograph the display.
 
STEWART (voice-over): Darryl Fleming has designed the fireworks for London's New Year's Eve for 13 years.
 
(on camera): How do you decide what fireworks to put where?
 
FLEMING: A lot of it is experience and knowledge of the product, but it's also down to the music. We use the soundtrack to effectively dictate the choreography of the show.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Welcome to London.
 
STEWART (voice-over): The plans for this year are top secret.
 
(on camera): What's the soundtrack for '23?
 
FLEMING: So there's quite a good eclectic mixture for -- I'm not going to tell you until now. It's -- we're going to save the surprise.
 
CROWD: Three, two, one.
 
STEWART (on camera): This is the first big firework display since the pandemic began.
 
FLEMING: This is definitely the first large show since pandemic, so we're really looking forward to getting back out, really, and delivering a great show.
 
STEWART (voice-over): Most of the planning may be done on computer, but you still need to know your rocket from your Roman candle. Once the designs are done, each firework is quality checked, wired and given a number that corresponds to the computer simulation.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And then you close the thing just in case.
 
STEWART (voice-over): These fireworks aren't being saved for New Year's Eve, though, they're all for me.
 
(on camera): Darryl?
 
FLEMING: Hello.
 
STEWART (on camera): I have been so excited about this. I know it's just about siesta, for me, it's just a little preview of what's to come.
 
FLEMING: Absolutely. So these will be some of the fireworks we'll be letting off. So we'll just turn on the panel. I'll turn on the arm key. All you got to do is press fire.
 
STEWART: Ready, steady. Oh, I can't wait for the big show. That was amazing.
 
FLEMING: Excellent.
 
STEWART (voice-over): Anna Stewart, CNN, Cambridgeshire. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Oh, that's all rather cute, really, isn't it? That is Anna Stewart, CNN, in Cambridgeshire in the UK. We are here in Dubai. The fireworks here are complete. I mean, the place is looking absolutely spectacular. And down below me, I see the boats leaving that I've had the fireworks post on them, which is beautiful to see. Up in Abu Dhabi, the fireworks continue. Let's bring those up. The celebrations ongoing just an hour or so up the road. And this is the parking that's going on here at Attiko Rooftop Bar. All right, those are your Abu Dhabi fireworks. The world is welcoming in 2023. It's happened here in the UAE.
 <br>[15:39:40]
 
We're going to get you around the world as others get set to welcome in the New Year after this. Stay with us, folks.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: OK, when was the last time you put on a pin?
 
WAYNE ROONEY, ENGLISH FORMER FOOTBALLER: OK.
 
ANDERSON: There we go. There's lady's twin here. Oh, it's such young man, suit you. He didn't sign up for this.
 
I was thinking if you nailed this, now that you're living with your coach in Washington, you could be making sushi together. I've got a feeling --
 
ROONEY: That's why I'm not doing this. I'm doing it badly.
 
ANDERSON: Badly. So nobody relies on you.
 
I think the Washington takeouts are going to remain that Washington takeout.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Like this. Maybe still live in the lobster.
 
ANDERSON: At least it's still on there.
 
ROONEY: What are we doing next?
 
ANDERSON: It's the Ronney roll. You are an expert. I'm not. Impressed by your own culinary expertise.
 
ROONEY: I'll buy them.
 
ANDERSON: Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I like it.
 
ANDERSON: Superb. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, so thank you very much.
 
ANDERSON: Thank you very much indeed.
 
ROONEY: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Chef Moon.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Sushi samba, got to love it. How about that? That was one of my favorite interviews of the year. Rolling Sushi with Wayne Rooney just before the World Cup started down the road from here at the Palm Jumeirah an iconic Dubai landmark.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POZZEBON (voiceover): In with the new, out with the old. People in Latin America have some unique traditions to ring in the New Year. In Brazil, when the clock strikes 12, many people celebrate at the beach by watching fireworks and jumping over seven waves while making seven wishes.
 
In Colombia, people burn dolls made of cardboard, sodas and cloth that symbolize the old year. It's a way of letting go of the negativity of the past and making a fresh start.
 <br>[15:45:04]
 
A dowsing of water or cider or beer is also symbolic of renewal in Uruguay. So a splash from above by people throwing water out of their windows on New Year's Eve, it's actually considered a blessing.
 
And if you're up at midnight, many countries follow the Spanish tradition of eating 12th grapes, one for each month of the New Year to ensure good luck and good health. Yet another way to secure some good fortune is to wear yellow underwear. 
 
So stores around Latin America will stock up on the skippies this time of the year. But many places agree that there is one thing you shouldn't wear that's black on New Year's Eve, as it will supposedly bring you bad luck in the New Year. 
 
Stefano Pozzebon, CNN, Sao Paulo.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: We're just minutes away now from the clock. Let me start that again. First of all, we're 15 minutes away from the clock, striking midnight for millions of people around the world, including in Turkey and in Kenya. We're awaiting what's sure to be a spectacular fireworks display along the Bosphorus in Istanbul. Huge crowds also gathered in Mombasa to watch a dazzling show on the waterfront there.
 
Well, from London to Washington to Kyiv, our Scott McLean has covered the world for CNN this year. On this New Year's Eve, he is in Istanbul for us, we're also ready for those big celebrations in Mombasa, and that is where we're going to check in with Larry Madowo who is watching. Larry, those minutes take down, sir.
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, we're down to about 14 minutes until we ring in the New Year here in East Africa. And from Mombasa in Kenya, this is a coastal city, a popular tourist destination. We call it Mombasa Raha in Swahili. Raha means pleasure, because when we want to wind that down, when we want to let our hair down, we come here to the coast. And that is why they have this traditional New Year celebration here on the waterfront.
 
We're expecting a big fireworks display from back there. This got has surged in the time since I was here. There was only a couple of hundred people when we got here a couple of hours ago. Now it's in the thousands and growing with a whole lot of kids, a lot of families, still food vendors. Early in the day, Mombasa County hosted a food festival at Cultural Extravaganza. We saw lots of Swahili food on display here.
 
Pilaus and biryani and samosa, which, if that sounds familiar for people from South Asia, is because there's a lot of cultural influence along the Indian Ocean coast on the Swahili East African coast, but also a lot more indigenous foods as well. And now is the big moment in the night almost there. And when we get to ring in the New Year, many people here in Kenya will be hoping that it will be a much better year.
 
The cost of living has been a big problem over this year. In fact, the biggest concern, according to one new opinion poll released today by a major polling from here in the country, Infratrack, it said that 50 percent of Kenyans consider 2022 to be a really bad year. But they're optimistic that 2023 is going to be a big bumper year for them. And I guess that's why they want to be here, to see it, to get rid of 2022, say good rid to it and look forward to good tidings for 2023.
 
And so far, I think the crowd is really charged. They've had performances back there, cultural dances. They've had a few speeches from some political leaders, but mostly just a good time keeping in tune with the name of the city as the capital of pleasure in East Africa, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Superb. Enjoyed also, you deserve it. That's Mombasa for you. We got Scott McLean up in Istanbul. I hope, yes, I've got you, Scott. You are just, what, less than 15 minutes away now. Got a lot of people behind you here, how is it in Istanbul tonight?
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, well, Becky, look, for the last hour or so, I've been racking my brain trying to figure out ways that I can one up Larry Madowo in Mombasa, because I have not found any camels or any kind of humpbacked transportation here to show off to you. And so all I really have is these really juicy looking pomegranates here, which is part of a I have to say, maybe not the most popular Turkish New Year's tradition, but definitely a Turkish New Year's tradition where people smash these pomegranates on the ground right at midnight as a sign of good luck. The more pomegranate shrapnel, the more seeds that come out, the better luck that you'll have, at least that's how things go. I've also found a heck of a lot of tourists here along the waterfront of the Bosphorus. Of course just across the Bosphorus Strait is Asia. We're just barely on the European side and a lot of people who want to smash them pomegranate it's right now.
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
You guys have come from Russia. I wonder what you're optimistic about, or if you're optimistic about 2023.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, we are kind of optimistic because we really hope that we could come back to Russia as soon as possible, and we really want to be free and happy.
 
MCLEAN: Here's hoping. And you've come from South Africa. Tell me, what are your hopes for 2023?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So I'm going to be starting university next year, so I'm very excited for that. But for the country, I just hope that we can come together as a country to just have a better life for us all in the country, yes.
 
MCLEAN: And you, what are your hopes for 2023?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I also about the university as I want to apply and start my start up, start my view and business. I'm dreaming about that.
 
MCLEAN: Got you. Amazing. And what would you normally be doing on a New Year's Eve if you weren't here in Istanbul?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For the last few years, I've actually been celebrating it at home because we've had COVID twice in 2020 and 2021. So it was a bit sad that we couldn't be celebrating. So I'm very excited to be here today to be celebrating it. Yes.
 
MCLEAN: Tell me what you'll miss about 2022, if anything?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'll miss the emotions that I got from moving to Istanbul from Moscow. And I'll miss good moments I had with new friends that I made here. Yes.
 
MCLEAN: Here's some more new friends in 2023. OK, I know why you guys are all standing around me here. It's not to talk to me on T.V. It's because you would like to smash some fruit. So I have a lot of volunteers. Mary, you tell me when you're ready. We're going to just and I know, Becky, you're supposed to do this at midnight, but I bought lottery tickets, so I need the luck before midnight. That's when the draw is. So we're going to do it right now instead, just for demonstration purpose. So if everybody's ready right here, we're going to smash our pomegranates. Ready, so three, two, one. I think we're going to have some luck here in 2023, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Look at you. Good luck, all of you. I hope you have a good one. I've got Clarence with me. Where are your pomegranates? Show us up to me, pomegranates. Listen, we've got just a minute or so. Scott was just asking those that he was with there in Istanbul, they were going to miss about 2022, and their hopes are '23, your own?
 
SEEDORF: All the hopes are for sure that we can see more peace, no more violence. We know the unity, humanity, wisdom for the leadership, strong and good leadership and unity. That is what I'm going to bring, I think, the world back in where we should be. And then a lot of sports and excitement, happiness and love.
 
ANDERSON: I love you, mate. Thank you for spending New Year's Eve with me and with our viewers around the world.
 
SEEDORF: You're amazing.
 
ANDERSON: Clarence Seedorf in the house. That is it for us here in Dubai tonight. Thank you for joining us, wherever you are watching in the world. I wish everyone a prosperous year ahead and I hope it's a happy one. The party doesn't stop here.
 <br>[15:53:13]
 
Larry and Scott are going to keep the party rolling for us right after a quick break from my team here who are brilliant, those working with us around the world. It is a very, very good night. We'll see you in 2023.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN HOST: That is Dubai ringing in the New Year just an hour ago with a massive fireworks display there. Happy New Year to all of those celebrating around the globe. I'm Linda Kinkade, joining you from CNN's World Headquarters here in Atlanta. I'll be with you for the next four hours for our New Year's Eve special broadcast. And we have a star studded lineup of guests from the bright lights of Broadway with the cast of "The Beautiful Noise," the highly anticipated musical based on the life and music of Neil Diamond to a New Year's host with Theo James, the star of the Emmy winning show "The White Lotus."
 
And we are just minutes away from New Year's Eve in Mombasa, Kenya and at the Bosphorus Strait in Istanbul, Turkey. CNN's Scott McLean is in Istanbul while our Larry Madowo is in Mombasa. Good to have you both with us. Happy New Year. I want to start with you first, Scott. You're in Istanbul, one of the only places in the world that can celebrate New Year's Eve in two continents.
 
MCLEAN: Yes, you're absolutely right. We're just literally minutes, maybe seconds away from the fireworks display here, right on the Bosphorus Strait. So on the other side of the strait is the Asian Istanbul. As you said, we're just on the very tip of Europe and you can see there are tons of people that have come. They are lined up here on the waterfront. They are packed several deep.
 
You can see really they're up on the planter boxes there. They're up on, you know, any kind of height that they can find to get their heads above this massive crowd. Just literally five minutes ago we had all the space in the world and now suddenly as we get close to midnight, we have no space at all.
 <br>[15:59:55]
 
Obviously, Lynda, like many countries in the world, Turkey has had a pretty rough go in 2022, with inflation biting particularly hard energy prices. The currency has really taken a hit.