Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Final World Cup Group Stage Matches Get Underway Today; Anti- Government Protester Killed After Iran-U.S. World Cup Match; At Least Six Cities in China Easing Some Restrictions on Zero-Covid; Idaho Police Defend Investigation Into Students' Killings. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired December 02, 2022 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Bianca Nobilo. And if you are just joining us, let me bring you up to date with our top stories at this hour. 
 
A federal appeals court stopped the special master's review of sensitive documents seized from former President Trump's Florida home in Mar-a-Lago. 
 
Plus, in the coming hours President Biden is set to meet with Britain's Prince and Princess of Wales. Prince William will be presenting The Second Annual Earthshot environmental award. And we'll have more on both stories in the coming hour on "EARLY START" for you. 
 
Magnificent Morocco make history and their mark at the World Cup. Sheer elation in Casablanca as a Morocco sword into the knockout round becoming the first North African team to advance. 
 
Meanwhile, former world champs Germany were sent packing, same goes for world number two, Belgium. Japanese fans are celebrating the blue samurai's surprise when over former world champion's Spain. Although both teams are moving on to the knockouts. And in the coming hours a grudge rematch between Ghana and Uruguay 12 years in the making. Also, in group 8 we'll see South Korea challenge Portugal and Cristiano Ronaldo. Group G, Cameroon faced undefeated Brazil, and Serbia take on Switzerland. I can barely keep up, so let's bring in CNN's Amanda Davis who can from Doha -- Amanda, please take over. 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Bianca, only with the help of a very big notepad and pen. But last night really was one of those action- packed World Cup nights here in Doha with the thrills and spills reverberating around the streets and as the action played out on big screens and in restaurants or on TVs as much as at the stadium. The calls were blaring, the flags were flying. It really was quite something to watch and listen to Morocco in large part the cause of that. They sparked while celebrations like the scene we saw in Casablanca with their victory over Canada. 
 
Becoming the team flying the flags for the Arab nations heading into the last 16 booking their place for the first time in 36 years. And coach Walid Regragui and Achraf Hakimi got a standing ovation as they walked into the press conference afterwards. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
With Regragui declaring he sees no reason why his side should stop here and he says they can go on and win. 
 
Japan, too, the other big victors. The headline from this one, the ball was in, Germany are out amid massive controversy issues. Bar says Japan has decided the ball didn't go out amid massive controversy. A huge VAR calls for Japan deciding the ball hasn't gone out. That allows Japan second goal against Spain. Fans saw for the second time in this tournament the Blue Samurais fighting back from a goal down to take the victory. And that meant Germany's win Costa Rica wasn't enough to see them through. It was a huge, huge disagreement for the four-time world champions. 
 
The second straight group exit for them, joining Belgium, as you mentioned, as the other big European title licking their wounds this morning. 
 
So, the final group stage matches to come today -- Brazil and Portugal. We already know are through. So, that leaves just two spots yet to be decided. A huge clash with a whole lot of history between Ghana and Uruguay. Ghana has been to settle the score from 2010. Cameroon needs to be Brazil to make it through. They say they're for it. It is a final and a bit of humor from the Serbia coach Dragan Stojkovic. Ahead of them, a must-win game against Switzerland. He said he hopes there are as many holes in the Swiss defense as there is in their cheese -- Bianca. 
 
NOBILO: Amanda Davis in Doha. Thank you so much. 
 
Earlier this week anti-government protestors in Iran publicly celebrated the ouster of their football team in the World Cup treating it as a symbolic defeat of the Iranian regime. But during those demonstrations a young man was killed. Mehran Samak was reportedly honking his horn in solidarity when he was shot in the head. Human rights groups say security forces are responsible. But authorities deny any wrongdoing and have announced the arrest of several suspects according to Iran's state aligned media. Nada Bashir has been closely following this story and all of the unrest and she joins us now. Nada, what more do you know about this?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, this is another tragic death of a protester amid the ongoing violence, amid the brutal crackdown of the Iranian regime. And time and time again the regime and the authorities in Iran have denied responsibility for the mounting death toll that we are seeing and the injuries that we are seeing sustained by protestors at the hands of the Iranian security forces. And this of course, another case. 
 
Mehran Samak reportedly shot dead after celebrating on the streets with many other Iranians after the loss of the Iranian national team against the United States. Now the authorities for their part -- according to the state-aligned Tasmin news agency have denied any responsibility once again. An investigation was announced by the Iranian prosecutor and they have said that they have detained and arrested several suspects they believe are connected to Mehran Samak death following those celebrations in the street of Iran. 
 
But of course, this stand in contrast to the message that we're hearing from human rights organizations, namely Iran IHR, which has played a crucial role in the monitoring the death toll in Iran. They pegged that death toll at more than 400 now, though it's difficult for CNN to independently verify that figure of course. But they accuse the authorities of shooting and killing Mehran Samak. 
 
They've also earlier warned that there have been instances, including with Mehran Samak, of the Iranian authorities withholding the bodies of protestors. We did see video, according to Iran IHR of many family members and others gathering outside the medical organization demanding that Mehran Samak body be returned to the family. 
 
But we have also now some video from the pro-reform news outlet Iran Wire. They show video of one that appears to be Mehran Samak funeral. Family members there and those paying their respects, chanting death to the dictator. Mehran Samak now of course now joining a long list of people who have been killed over the course of these protests since they began in September. Another symbol of the ongoing anti-regime protest movement. 
 
NOBILO: Nada Bashir thank you so much for your reporting. 
 
Now to China where state-run Xinhua News Agency reports at least six cities including Beijing, are making changes to their COVID containment policies. It follows days of protests and clashes with police across the country. People have been fed up for months now with strict lockdowns and daily testing. CNN has verified 28 COVID-related protests across 19 cities. Most have been put down by authorities. 
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said this week China's harsh crackdown is not a sign of strength but a sign of weakness. 
 <br>[04:40:02]
 
So, let's bring in CNN Beijing bureau chief Steven Jiang. Steven, what response are you getting from Chinese authorities on Blinken's comments?
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF: Yes, Bianca, they have responded very quickly and forcefully. And here's what a foreign ministry spokesman said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZHAO LIJIAN, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON (through translator): The U.S. has a lot of domestic problems. It has adopted a policy of slackness regarding COVID-19. The U.S. leads the world in both COVID-19 infections and deaths. The U.S. is in no position to criticize China's epidemic prevention and control. Facts have proved that China's epidemic prevention and control is scientifically correct and effective.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JIANG: So not surprisingly this spokesman, just like all Chinese officials, have not even acknowledged that protests took place let alone admitting the demonstrations actually prompted the changes and adjustments in their COVID enforcement in recent days. 
 
So, there seems to be a two-pronged approach going on here in terms of their official response to the protests. On the one hand they have been ramping up their clampdown on any open dissent. We have spoken to some protestors who told us police actually have tracked them town by geo locating their phones to protest locations. So, there was a lot of high-tech surveillance and crackdown going on. 
 
But on the other hand, we have seen some notable changes on the ground with officials in many cities lifting long standing lockdowns, reducing or even removing testing requirements of certain segments of the population. And some cases, for the first time people who test positive are allowed to quarantine at home instead of being sent to those mass facilities often in horrific conditions. 
 
So, you know, the thing is there's a lot of inconsistencies and also a lack of clarity so zero-COVID is definitely not ending overnight because the underlying challenges facing the government very much remain in terms of the relatively low vaccination rate among the elderly and the lack of medical resources in dealing with a potential surge in severe cases. 
 
But there is one change that we have noticed. That is the shifting in their messaging and propaganda. State media for the first time in a long time, they have stopped demonizing the virus. Instead, they have now been saying how the Omicron variant is milder and weaker. So possibly setting the stage for eventual exit from the zero-COVID policy -- Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Yes, fascinating to see that rhetorical shift and the timing of it all. Steven Jiang thank you so much.
 
Spain is boosting security measures in response to a string of letter bombs discovered across the country. The sixth and latest one was detected at the U.S. embassy in Madrid on Thursday, where it was safely detonated. On Wednesday, one person was injured when a letter bomb exploded at the Ukrainian embassy. Letter bombs have also been sent to Spain's Prime Minister and defense minister but they were intercepted in time. The Prime Minister says people should remain calm and that there's no reason yet to raise the country's terror threat level. 
 
Ukraine says Russian troops are giving up some ground in the Zaporizhzhia region. They've reportedly pulled out of at least three settlements after Ukrainian strikes behind the front line. Ukraine says Russia has also started offensives in parts of the region, allegedly to prepare civilians for evacuation.
 
In the east Russia is apparently making small gains near the city of Bakhmut. But videos on social media show it's also taking heavy casualties too. And some independent analysts say Russia is paying too heavy a price for a city without much strategic value. 
 
And in Kherson, officials say the lights are now back on for about 65 percent of the city. Power was entirely cut off in Kherson after a Russian strikes on Thursday morning.
 
Finland is not yet a member of NATO, but in light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the U.S. is more than willing the Fin's defend their long border with Russia. Within the past several days, the Biden administration has approved two separate weapons sales to Finland, totaling more than $700 million. More than half of that is For Stinger antiaircraft missiles and related equipment. The U.S. State Department said it was in America's national interest to help Finland defend itself against any possible aggression. 
 
Imprisoned U.S. basketball star Brittney Griner was apparently transferred to a remote penal colony in Russia weeks before the U.S. Embassy in Moscow was notified. The U.S. State Department said Griner was moved the facility in early November, more than two weeks before the embassy was informed. Secretary of State Antony Blinken accused Moscow of abusing long-established protocols for Americans held in Russia. He also said the U.S. is still trying to locate another detained citizen, Paul Whelan, whose last contact with U.S. officials was November 16. 
 
Before we go to break, I want to leave you with this. 
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
Ukrainian Children's Choir from Kyiv singing "Carol of the Bells" at Grand Central Station in New York City Wednesday. The choir is set to perform at Carnegie Hall on Sunday. We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: Police in Idaho are trying to clear up what they believe and what they know about the killings of four university students last month. The students were found stabbed to death in a shared off-campus home shocking a small community who had not reported a murder in seven years. Families of the victims and some in the community are growing frustrated with how authorities have handled the case. Police now say that there may have been more people living in the home than they initially reported. But even that is not confirmed. CNN's Veronica Miracle has the latest. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For the first time, police tell CNN there may have been six people living at the house where four University of Idaho students were killed. Until now police have only released information about five of the roommates, three of the victims and two other roommates who were not harmed. A fourth victim Ethan Chapin did not live at the home. 
 
A spokesperson for the Moscow Police Department tells CNN investigators are aware of a sixth person who could have potentially lived at the residence. That person was not at the residence on the night of the murders. An employee with a property management company for the home tells CNN that six people are listed on the lease, but they would not release the names. It remains unclear if that six- person lived at the property at any point.
 
MIRACLE: We asked police if they have found this potential six roommates questions them and clear them as a suspect. All they could tell us is that they continue to investigate anyone who potentially has information about this case.
 <br>[04:50:02]
 
MIRACLE (voice-over): Kaylee Goncalves' mother tells CNN quote, Kaylee had never mentioned that they were looking for a sixth roommate. If there was a sixth person on that lease. I didn't know about it. But she also said she'd never been to the home and didn't know the other roommates besides Kaylee's best friend and victim Madison Mogen. The Goncalves family among those at the you University of Idaho candlelight vigil where hundreds of students came together to honor their fallen classmates.
 
STEVE GONCALVES, FATHER OF VICTIM KAYLEE GONCALVES: They shared everything. They eventually get into the same apartment together. And in the end that they died together in the same room in the same bed.
 
MIRACLE: We did reach out to other people connected with the home but we have not heard back. So, we just know if there was a six person living in that house. We just know from the leasing company that there were six people on that lease. 
 
Veronica Miracle, CNN. Moscow, Idaho.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: The college football playoff board is promising more excitement for fans, students and athletes. They plan to expand the playoffs to 12 teams beginning in the 2024-2025 season. Currently only four teams make the playoffs. 
 <br>[04:55:02]
 
Atlanta will host the 2025 national championship game, followed by Miami in 2026.
 
Following the category of, you've got to be kidding, watch this. 
 
Actress Lindsay Lohan selling "Pilk," a dirty soda with Pepsi and milk. Pepsi claims its secret known to Pepsi lovers. The way to celebrate the holidays. Besides "Pilk" and cookies, there are combos with their cherry on top and vanilla cream. And if you are thinking you cannot pay me to drink that -- which is precisely what I was thinking -- Pepsi say says it actually will. 25 winners of an online Christmas challenge will take home cash. And before we go, McDonald's is serving up a special treat for the
 
 holidays. A shot at free meals for life. The fast food chain says starting Monday every order of at least $1 completed on the app will enter customers to win. The prize is a fabled "McGold" card which gets you 2 meals a week for 50 years. Three winners will get three more cards to give away. The elusive "McGold" card has been around for years. Didn't know that. With Warren Buffett, Bill Gates and actor Rob Lowe all being cardholders. 
 
Well, that does it here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Bianca Nobilo in London. "EARLY START" with Christine Romans is next. And I will see you on Monday with the one and only Max Foster.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)