Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Part of Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Plant Under Chechen Armed Forces Control; 4 Prisoners Killed, 61 Injured in Iran Prison Fire; Biden Reviewing Ties with Saudi Arabia after OPEC+ Oil Cuts; Xi Jinping's Nationalistic Vision Shapes Modern China; Three Explosions Heard in Kyiv, Residents Urged to Shelter; Helping Ukraine Recover from the Mental Trauma of War; Typhoon Nesat Gaining Strength in South China Sea; New Type of 'Cold War' Over Melting Arctic. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired October 17, 2022 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome. Coming to you live from Studio Seven at the CNN Center in Atlanta, I'm Michael Holmes. Appreciate your company. 
 <br>[00:00:34]
 
Coming up here on CNN NEWSROOM, Ukraine's unrelenting war. As civilians face the atrocities carried out by Russia, how are they dealing with mental trauma? We'll speak with a doctor on the ground. 
 
Plus -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(CHANTING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: It's now been a month of tense, often violent nationwide protests in Iran following the death of Mahsa Amini, and now the Ukrainian president is accusing the U.S. of inciting chaos. 
 
And climate change unlocking a new center of conflict. The Arctic, where world powers are looking to get their hands on untapped sources of energy. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Michael Holmes. 
 
HO]LMES: Ukraine reporting another deadly day for civilians in Southern and Eastern parts of the country. A senior Ukrainian official says at least 10 civilians were killed and 14 wounded, with most of the deaths being reported in the Donetsk region. 
 
Russian attacks also reported in the Zaporizhzhia, Kharkiv, and Kherson regions. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had an update on the situation on the ground. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): The situation on the front line has not changed significantly over the last day. The key hotspots in Donbas are Soledar and Bakhmut. Very heavy fighting is going on there. 
 
HOLMES: And while that fighting grinds on, Ukraine's ambassador to the U.S. Spoke about the urgent need for new weapons. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OKSANA MARKAROVA, UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S.: We still need all the weapons we're talking about, with air defense being a priority, after these horrible strikes that we're all seeing, returning not only to select cities, but everywhere in Ukraine, and especially in Kyiv, and infrastructure, before the winter. 
 
Unfortunately, these systems are difficult to produce, and they're not ready on the shelves waiting. But we're doing everything possible and asking our partners to do everything possible to speed up not only the delivery but also the ordering of the systems.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HOLMES: Meantime, in Russia, the ruling political party says it's helping organize the evacuation of families with children from the Kherson region. United Russia says those families will go on, quote, "holiday" in other regions of Russia. 
 
Kherson, of course, is one of four Ukrainian regions illegally annexed by Russia just last month. 
 
An Ukrainian military organization now claims part of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant is being controlled by Chechens special rapid response unit. The nuclear complex is the largest in Europe and was seized by Russian forces at the start of the war. 
 
Elsewhere in the Zaporizhzhia region, Russian attacks are being reported. CNN's Fred Pleitgen with the details now from Kyiv. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Once again, the Southern region around Zaporizhzhia has been targeted by the Russian military. According to local authorities there, 2 schools were apparently hit by Russian missiles. 
 
So far, the Ukrainians say there's no word on any sort of casualties, but they do say that the buildings there were absolutely annihilated by those very heavy weapons. 
 
And it's really a pattern that we've been seeing over the past couple of days, with the Russians targeting the town of Zaporizhzhia, but also generally the area around there, in the South of the country. It's very close to the front lines. 
 
And just yesterday, the Ukrainians say that the town of Zaporizhzhia was targeted with 10 S-300 missiles. Those, of course, normally used to shoot down aircraft. When they're used against ground targets, it becomes very inaccurate. And the chance of civilian casualties is quite high. 
 
One of the other things that the Russians have also been doing is using those kamikaze drones that the Ukrainians say were supplied by Iran to then hit targets, as well. They did it down in Zaporizhzhia, apparently yesterday. But they also did it here in the Kyiv region, hitting very hard some energy infrastructure here that, of course, is so vital to the Ukrainians. 
 
At the same time, the massive incidents that took place on the Russian side of the border, in the town of Belgorod, which is a major military hub for the Russians and also where a lot of the training is taking place for the people who have been mobilized by Vladimir Putin. 
 
Eleven people there killed by two gunmen, and according to the authorities, 15 further people have been wounded. 
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:05:05]
 
HOLMES: Ukraine says the vital export of agricultural products is set to continue past the end of next month. That word from the country's infrastructure minister, who met with Turkey's defense minister in Istanbul. He says the Black Sea grain initiative will continue operating past November 22, adding that more than 7 million tons of agricultural products have already been exported since the launch of that initiative in July. 
 
It has been one month since anti-government protestors stormed the streets of Iran after the death of a 22-year-old woman in police custody. 
 
CNN obtained this video from the pro-reform activist outlet Iran Wire. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(SINGING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Mahsa Amini died last month after being detained by Iran's so- called Morality Police for allegedly violating the country's strict dress code for women. 
 
Her death has ignited one of the biggest uprisings towards Iran's Islamist regime in years. And Tehran has responded by unleashing a brutal and deadly crackdown on demonstrators.
 
President Joe Biden says the U.S. stands with Iran's citizens, and he's calling on Tehran to, quote, "End the violence against its own citizens for exercising their fundamental rights." Mr. Biden's remarks sparking an angry response from Iran's president. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
EBRAHIM RAISI, IRANIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): It is our belief that America is behind the majority of destruction, terror, riots, and chaos in the region and the world. It affirms our belief, and the world's beliefs, that Americans are angered and upset by every innovation, every happiness or good that happens to Iran. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: We're also following unrest at a prison in the capital, Tehran. Casualties are now being reported from Saturday's fire inside a prison where Iran's political dissidents are usually held. 
 
CNN's Nada Bashir reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, several presidents have been confirmed dead and dozens injured after a fire broke out at Iran's notorious evening prison on Saturday, according to state media. 
 
The facility at Tehran has gained infamy for the detention of political prisoners, including human rights activists, lawyers, journalists, and professors, as well as foreign nationals. 
 
While CNN is not able to independently verify what caused the fire, some details have emerged from pro-reform organizations. 
 
In footage obtained by activist group 1500tasvir, gunfire and alarms can be heard in the background as flames engulf the prison complex.
 
Meanwhile, pro-reform news outlet Iran Wire reported on Saturday that a source within the prison said a revolt had taken place in part of the facility and that a fire has subsequently ensued. 
 
Now, government authorities on Saturday were quick to assert that the situation had been brought under control, with a security official telling state media that the fire had started after a group of thugs set fire to a clothing warehouse in the complex, adding that the so- called rioters' response wall had been separated from other detainees. 
 
Of course, while the Iranian regime claims the fire is not connected to the protest movement sweeping the country, it is impossible to ignore the context here. 
 
The incident comes at a time when the regime is facing one of its toughest challenges in years, with protests not only gaining momentum, but also morphing into a much broader call for regime change. 
 
On Saturday, U.S. President Joe Joe Biden expressed his solidarity with the Iranian people, drawing criticism from Iran's foreign ministry spokesperson, who said Sunday that Iran remains unfazed by the intervention of foreign politicians and would not give in to the U.S. government's, quote, "cruel sanctions and absurd threats." 
 
This, of course, as the regime's brutal and deadly crackdown on protesters and any sign of dissent, for that matter, continues across the country. 
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, says relations between Ukraine and Saudi Arabia are, quote, "the most meaningful" they've been in 30 years. 
 
Saudi Arabia's defense minister affirmed the kingdom's support for Ukraine after the Saudis were accused by the U.S. of helping Russia over the OPEC+ recent decision to cap oil production. 
 
The defense minister tweeting Saudi Arabia was, quote, "astonished by the accusations." 
 
Meanwhile, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has pledged $400 million in humanitarian support for the Ukraine in the aftermath of the OPEC+ controversy. 
 
Meanwhile, that move by OPEC+ to cut oil production could see inflation in the U.S. soaring just weeks before the midterm elections. U.S. President Joe Biden says it is time for the U.S. to rethink its relationship with the kingdom. 
 <br>[00:10:08]
 
And national security adviser Jake Sullivan says Mr. Biden is reassessing the relationship between the two countries, quote, "methodically." 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR: I'm not going to get ahead of the president. What I will say is there's nothing imminently moving now. So there's time for him to have those consultations, to make decisions that are in the best interest of the American people. 
 
He has no plans to meet with the crown prince at the G-20 summit. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: CNN's Natasha Bertram now with more on why U.S.-Saudi relations have become strained in recent times.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NATASHA BERTRAM, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Tensions between the U.S. and Saudi Arabia escalating sharply this week, with U.S. officials accusing the Saudis of strong-arming OPEC into cutting oil production and helping Russia maintain its war machine in Ukraine. ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: The Saudis have conveyed to
 
 us, both privately, as well as publicly, their intention to reduce oil production, which they knew would increase Russian revenues and, potentially, blunt the effectiveness of sanctions. We made clear that that would be the wrong direction. 
 
BERTRAND (voice-over): The OPEC+ decision to cut oil production by as much as 2 million barrels a day has rattled the White House, which now says that it's reevaluating its relationship with the Saudis, one of the U.S.'s most important Middle East allies, just months after President Biden traveled to Jeddah in an effort to mend an already faltering relationship. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I am in the process, when the House and Senate gets back, they're going to have to -- There's going to be some consequences for what they've done with Russia. 
 
BERTRAND (voice-over): Multiple sources also telling CNN that other OPEC+ members, including the United Arab Emirates and Iraq, oppose the Saudi-led decisions. Those countries have now indicated to the U.S. that they may not move forward with the kind of huge cuts that Saudi Arabia wants, one of the sources said. 
 
The Saudis have pushed back against the Biden administration, releasing a rare written statement accusing the U.S. of trying to distort the facts and insisting that the decision was based purely on economic considerations. 
 
ADEL AL-JUBEIR, SAUDI FOREIGN MINISTER: Saudi Arabia's not siding with Russia. Saudi Arabia is taking the side of trying to ensure the stability of the oil markets. 
 
BERTRAND (voice-over): As the Biden administration considers how to punish Saudi Arabia. A senior official tells CNN they've been purposely vague to keep the Saudis guessing. 
 
But one option lawmakers are considering is to ban future weapons sales to the country once Congress is back in session. 
 
SEN. CHRIS COONS (D-DE): I think it's unlikely that we will support any additional arms sales to the Saudis. This was a punch in the gut. 
 
BERTRAND (voice-over): There are currently no imminent weapons sales to Saudi Arabia in the pipeline, though, and experts are skeptical that the relationship will fundamentally change. 
 
JONATHAN LORD, SENIOR FELLOW AND DIRECTOR, CNAS MIDDLE EAST SECURITY PROGRAM: Because of Saudi Arabia's activities in the war on Yemen and the civilian casualties they've caused, followed by the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, Congress has become more and more critical and controlling U.S. foreign military sales to Saudi Arabia. There's very little coercion left that the U.S. can do in trying to control military sales to Saudi Arabia. 
 
BERTRAND: Now, a U.S. official told CNN that the OPEC announcement was, quote, "a lot of theater" and is ultimately unlikely to take the full 2 million barrels of oil per day off the market. 
 
But the U.S. is looking to OPEC's next meeting in November to see whether the cartel does stay on this path. 
 
Natasha Bertrand, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Coming up after the break, ten years in power. No end in sight to that. Xi Jinping's plan to make China great again has set up the authoritarian ruler to tighten his grip on power even more. We'll have a report after we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:15:54]
 
HOLMES: Welcome back, everyone. 
 
Right now, China's communist leaders and political elite are gathering for day two of the 20th Party Congress. Xi Jinping opening the event on Sunday like he has in the past, laying out his nationalistic vision for the country's future. 
 
But this year is like any other, because after ten years in power, Xi is poised to be selected for an unprecedented third term as party leader. It was a watershed moment for modern China, and as Selina Wang reports now, one that was years in the making. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): From a nation of folk villages, to sprawling metropolises, in recent history, no country modernized as rapidly as China. 
 
And in just one decade, no person has changed China more than its supreme leader, Xi Jinping. His image, inescapable. His thinking, indoctrinated in school children. His key message, make China great again. But above all else, obey and follow his lead. 
 
When he took control of the Chinese Communist Party in 2012, there was hope that the relatively low-key leader would make China's economy and society more liberal. But Xi had a different position. Restore the country to its former glory, with his Communist Party firmly at its center. 
 
RICHARD MCGREGOR, SENIOR FELLOW FOR EAST ASIA, LOWY INSTITUTE: Xi Jinping sits on top of the party. The party sits on top of China. And China sits on top of the world. That's basically the program. 
 
WANG (voice-over): Xi's China is investing heavily in new technologies, infrastructure, rapidly modernizing the countryside and the military. 
 
He's reasserted party control over business and society, building the world's most sophisticated surveillance state, quashing people's freedoms during the pandemic with brutal lockdowns. 
 
Xi Jinping crushed dreams of democracy in Hong Kong, oversaw the internment of up to 2 million Uyghurs and other minorities in Xinjian in what Beijing claims are occasional training centers. 
 
He's amping up intimidation of Taiwan, vowing to reunite the democratic island with the mainland. 
 
China tells its people these actions are long overdue, fueled by the narrative that, after 100 years of subjugation by foreign powers in the 19th and 20th centuries, China is finally assuming its rightful place in the world. Anyone who disagrees is blamed for trying to undermine China's rise and quickly censored or even jailed. 
 
STEVE TSANG, DIRECTOR, SOAS CHINA INSTITUTE: Here, he is going back to his mythical vision of Chinese history, when China was the greatest civilization and the rest of the world just wanted to the leadership of China. 
 
WANG (voice-over): That framing has ripple effects around the world. China no longer believes it needs to play by American-led international rules. When the U.S. tries to take China on in trade, technology, or human rights -- 
 
MCGREGOR: So that simply reinforces the sense that China under siege from Western powers. I think it has a visceral, emotional -- emotional appeal in China. 
 
WANG (voice-over): The country is building its own multilateral institutions that are friendlier to autocrats. 
 
China grows ever closer to Russia, unified by a common foe. And Xi Jinping's China dream? The country is glorious and strong, with the Communist Party ruling 1.4 billion people in shaping a new world order. 
 
Selina Wang, CNN, Hong Kong. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: And I'm joined now by Steven Jiang, CNN's Beijing bureau chief, and also CNN senior international correspondent Will Ripley, who's standing by in Taipei. 
 
First to you, Steven. 
 
You know, 24 hours later, how is Mr. Xi's speech being received? What's your read?
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF: Michael, in this country, the speech can only be received in one way: with resounding support and enthusiasm, as we have seen, at least publicly from state media and social media by everyone. Students in school, priests, Buddhist monks. And even grooms and brides at weddings. 
 
But of course, as we were talking about this yesterday, this opaque system means reading the speech is also like reading tea leaves. We talked about how him pausing a few times during this speech to clear his throat and sipping water got noticed, drawing attention on the issue of his stamina. Because that's important in the system of one- man rule, as it's requiring him to make a growing number of decisions, big and small on both domestic and international fronts. 
 
But of course, people have also been diving deep into that two-hour speech and noticing one of the words he has used -- used most often was "struggle" or "fight." 
 
He talked about fighting COVID, fighting corruption, fighting separatists, and without naming the U.S., fighting unilateralism and hegemony. 
 
This is, of course, an indication that he's unlikely to back down from any of his hardline positions and policies, including on zero COVID. 
 
And another phrase he used got people's attention, was how he said China is now entering a phase of strategic opportunities and risks with growing uncertainty. Because in the past, both he and his predecessors have always said China is entering a phase of strategic opportunities. 
 
So the new phrasing would undoubtedly generate a lot of discussions and debate, as he's implying that, in terms of accessing the external threat environment -- environment, China is actually going to -- moving resources, reallocating resources more towards a long-term war footing as China anticipates a risk or growing risk of conflict in the war -- Michael. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, yes. Good to have your analysis, Steven. Thanks for that. 
 
Will Ripley, you know, as we've discussed, Mr. Xi made clear in his speech his view of Taiwan's future, and independence is not in it. What has been the reception to the speech there? 
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, China keeps saying, Michael, and Xi Jinping said it yesterday, the peaceful reunification with the island that they never controlled since the end of China's civil war, you know, this self-governing democracy has been running its own show for more than 70 years. 
 
They've evolved into this democratic system. And their people, more than 23 million of them, elected the leaders that Beijing calls illegitimate. 
 
And Beijing's communist rulers, while they lay claim to this island, you would be hard-pressed to find anybody here who believes that they -- that the rulers in Beijing have rule over their lives. 
 
Now, does it mean that people want, you know, a war with China? No. A lot of people, the majority of people here, continue to want to maintain the status quo, where Taiwan basically looks and acts like a country, without calling itself that, you know, or at least without most of the world calling them that. Because of Beijing making sure that the only officially recognized
 
 China is Beijing. And yet, they continue to have their military, their own democracy, and they continue with life as is. But that might be difficult.
 
But it's hard to imagine, Michael, and people here, you know, they just reopened the borders. They're going to have a major, you know, LGBTQ pride coming up in a matter of weeks, something that would basically be unthinkable in China, both open borders and the pride thing. Because, you know, we've seen what happens to ethnic and sexual minorities and feminists in the mainland. They are basically absorbed in silence, whereas here, those differences are celebrated. And there's more color in the streets here. 
 
There's also less order. And of course, Xi Jinping has made order his priority. 
 
But you look at the polls, Michael, and not too many people here would willingly just reabsorb with the China that they're seeing right now, certainly with the rolling lockdowns. 
 
And the military intimidation, frankly, doesn't really phase people here, because they've been dealing with it their whole lives. So even as China has stepped up, intimidation, people are aware that someday there might be a conflict. And they just say they'll be ready, ready to defend their way of life. 
 
HOLMES: Yes. Deal with when it comes. Will, thanks for that. 
 
Will Ripley there in Taipei. Steven Jiang in Beijing, first. Appreciate it. Thank you both. 
 
Well, we take another quick break. When we come back, amid the carnage on Russia's war on Ukraine, mental health professionals are trying to help Ukrainians cope with the trauma. I'll speak with a psychiatrist in Kyiv, who's helping the people and the professionals. That's when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:26:53]
 
HOLMES: And welcome back to our viewers all around the world. I'm Michael Holmes. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Well, it has been nearly eight months now since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine. And in that time, we have, of course, seen gut- wrenching videos and pictures of the atrocities being committed there. 
 
But those are just a tiny fraction of the horrors that the people of Ukraine continue to face. As you can imagine, there is a growing need for mental healthcare in the country for adults and for children. 
 
And that's why professionals like Dr. James Gordon are now offering their services to individuals and fellow professionals. Dr. Gordon joins me now from Kyiv. He is the founder and CEO of the Center for Mind/Body Medicine, as well as the author of "Transforming Trauma: The Path to Hope and Healing." 
 
It's good to see you again, Doctor. It is not your first trip to Ukraine. What have you heard from those you're working with there on this visit about what people are dealing with as the war grinds on? 
 
DR. JAMES GORDON, FOUNDER/CEO, CENTER FOR MIND/BODY MEDICINE: Well, it's good to be back with you again, Michael. Thank you. 
 
No, it's my third trip here, and what I'm -- what I'm hearing is that the level of fear and concern has increased significantly, particularly since this last onslaught from Russia, the missiles that reigned down. 
 
Apparently, I came to my hotel in Kyiv, and they told me, Well, you can't sit under this glass ceiling. And remember, there was a missile that was just a couple hundred yards away from here that fell. 
 
I think that there's a sense among our colleagues here and the people that I meet casually, that this is a particularly dangerous time, and they're feeling it quite intensely. 
 
HOLMES: The thing is, you have implemented -- you've been doing this a long time. You've implemented lifestyle programs with, you know, conflict-affected populations from Kosovo to Gaza, to Israel to the U.S. military. 
 
I'm curious, as you set up these programs and you work with professionals and individuals, do the same rules apply in dealing with trauma? Or are there unique, distinctive issues that you see in Ukraine? 
 
GORDON: Well, you know, in some ways, it's similar, of course. When a whole population is terrorized, there's a need to reach out to confirm the approach from a kind of customary medical approach that we're just going to treat one person a time, to looking at the whole society. And looking at the -- really creating a public health approach. 
 
So that's -- that aim is the same here. I think the differences, but here there is a -- there is a nation fighting for its very life. And that changes things. 
 
It's a kind of -- you know, the cliche and the phrase, it is an existential crisis. It's a crisis of the very being, the very identity of the country. And I think that changes things. 
 
The other is that the whole world is more focused on this. Yes, there was the war in Kosovo. There was concern. And of course, the focus is there in the Middle East when there's a conflict. 
 
But this is a sustained focus. And a sustained level of concern throughout the world -- in the United States and particularly in Europe -- that you don't feel elsewhere. So there's -- there is -- that's different. The intensity, the length of time, and the scope of this conflict.
 <br>[00:30:18] HOLMES: Yes, I can imagine. 
 
I'm curious. Once you leave Ukraine after this visit, and as I say, you talk to individuals, you talk to fellow healthcare professionals, after you leave, what do you hope you would have achieved? 
 
GORDON: Here on this trip, it's expanding what I've done on the previous other two trips. Reaching out to people, partners within the government, international, and particularly the local non-government organizations, the psychiatrists, the psychologists, the educators, the military, and setting up a whole network of people to whom you can bring our work. 
 
Our work is designed as a program of self-awareness, self-care and mutual support. And it's designed to be integrated into already- existing institutions. So we need those markers. And we're being very warmly welcomed. 
 
And the hope will be that there will be several thousand people, and a number of people in organizations, who will be ready and eager for the training that we have to offer that -- that they're, right now, the reception is so -- so warm. There's a greatly increased need -- understanding of the need for mental health care, and that's even increased in the last few months. 
 
HOLMES: Yes. We've only got a minute left. I want to ask you this, because we discussed it last time. You call this a war on innocents. Whether kids can ever get over that loss of innocence. 
 
What can be done to mitigate the long-term effects of living like this, as a child? I know you've said that it's important to work with parents, because they, even with their own trauma, can affect how the kids are impacted. 
 
GORDON: Well, I think first of all, there needs to be the understanding that the children are affected. And fortunately, in many ways, children are more demonstrative than adults. So they do call attention through their behavior, their clinginess, their fear, their anger. They do call attention to the fact that they're affected.
 
In the long term, what's going to be needed is an approach that understands that these damaging effects are -- are part of the child's life. They're not something extraordinary. That they -- and they need to be looked down and understood as part of a child's life and addressed on a continual basis. 
 
And there needs to be programs, not just in a psychiatric clinic but in everyday life, in the schools, where kids are given the opportunity to learn the kinds of techniques we teach to quiet their anxiety, and help free them from being shut down and fearful. 
 
And that they have an opportunity to speak to one another, that their --  that their concerns are welcomed and even over long periods of time. 
 
And if they can come together and share their concerns and learn how to deal with them -- healthcare techniques more effectively, they will not only recover, but in many ways, they may be able to become more whole than they ever were. That there is a process of growth through the tragedy, moving on the other side, that is possible for them. 
 
And we need to keep that in mind. And we need to create the support and the structures to make that possible. 
 
HOLMES: And we certainly hope that happens. Important work you're doing, Doctor. It's good to see you again. And good luck on the rest of your trip there in Ukraine. 
 
GORDON: It's good to be with you. Again, thank you so much for calling attention to mental health. It's crucial.
 
HOLMES: All right. Thank you, Doctor. 
 
And this just into CNN, three explosions have been heard in the Ukrainian capital in just the last hour, apparently, the results of Russian missile strikes. 
 
Kyiv's mayor urging residents to stay in their shelters. CNN's chief international correspondent, Clarissa Ward, is in Kyiv. She joins me now on the line. 
 
I know there's probably not a lot of details, but these apparently, at least one, was in pretty much the center of the city. What do you know? 
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (via phone): Yes. And it started about 6:45 this morning. The second explosion was by far the loudest. It seemed to indicate that it was in a sort of central location within the city. 
 
The mayor of Kyiv, Vitaly Klitschko, on his Telegram channel, says that a couple of the blasts occurred in this Shevchenkivsky district, advising people to essentially stay in their shelters until the air raid was finished and -- and emergency services had been sent to the site. 
 
But the more detailed update that we've been given now by Andriy Yermak, the chief of staff for the office of the presidency, is that the capital was attacked with, in his words, quote, "kamikaze drones." 
 <br>[00:35:07]
 
And he goes on to say in his statement, "The Russians think it will help them. But these actions look like agony. We need more air defense as soon as possible. No time for slow action. More weapons to protect the sky and destroy the enemy. And it will happen." 
 
So -- so that's certainly a significant and interesting development, Michael. Obviously, it's been about a month now that these Iranian Shahed drones, if indeed, that is the kamikaze drones that he's referring to, have been used on the battle stage here in Ukraine, and it has been having an impact; because the effects of these drones is to essentially kind of overwhelm Ukraine's air defense systems and -- and force them to expend a lot of missiles, which obviously, they would be preferring to not have to expend in such rapid fashion. 
 
HOLMES: Yes.
 
WARD (via phone): So no word yet on casualties, whether anyone was hurt or killed, possibly, in these attacks. Obviously, last Monday's barrage is very fresh in everyone's minds here. So just a reminder that things remain grim and difficult here in the capital, Michael. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, indeed. Thanks, Clarissa. Clarissa Ward. Good to have you there on the spot there in Kyiv. And we will keep an eye on any developments with those explosions in the Ukrainian capital and bring you updates when we get them. 
 
We're going to take a quick break here on the program. When we come back, climate change creating what could turn out to be a new ocean. A body of water that world powers may be willing to fight over. We'll have that story and more when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: We continue to keep a close eye on Typhoon Nesat, which his moving on from the Philippines and the South China Sea right now. Top sustained winds around 140 kilometers an hour, about as strong as a Category 1 hurricane.
 
It could further strengthen in the next 24 hours, though, before approaching Southern China and Vietnam later this week.
 
Let's go to meteorologist Pedram Javaheri for more on this. What are you seeing, Pedram?
 
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, Michael, as you noted here, this storm system has what it takes to strengthen in the next 24 or so hours. That's when we think the peak of this storm takes place, 150 kilometer-per-hour winds now in the last few minutes, updating this to 150.
 
You'll notice an eye beginning to form in the last few frames of this storm, as well. And we do expect, with the sea surface temperatures at around 29 degrees Celsius, again, to continue to intensify in the immediate forecast. And notice across Bagao (ph), Coron, portions of northern Luzon, tremendous rainfall in the past 24 hours.
 
The system skirted towards the Babuyan islands, just North of Luzon there, home to about 20,000 people. Just moving west of it now into portions of the South China Sea.
 
But all eyes across portions of Hainan. All eyes across areas of Vietnam. On this storm system, those forecasts to remain over open waters, again, strengthening here to 165 kph in the next 24 hours, then gradual weakening before possibly an impact there in Southwestern Hainan as early as Wednesday into Thursday and another impact going Thursday into Friday into areas of Northern Vietnam.
 <br>[00:40:16]
 
So certainly a storm system worth monitoring.
 
HOLMES: All right. Pedram, I know you'll keep an eye on it for us. Pedram Javaheri there, thanks.
 
Now a new type of cold war may be on the horizon, as we hear from CNN's Boris Sanchez. This time, the issue is the melting Arctic and which nations will control what could become the world's newest ocean.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. ANGUS KING (I-ME): This new ocean is -- is appearing on our maps. And it has all kind different implications. And we've been slow to pick up on it, frankly.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Maine Senator Angus King says climate change is unlocking a new crossroads and potential center of conflict: the Arctic, where irreversible trends are leading to a global rush, with world powers seeking untapped energy supplies; oil and natural gas; minerals; fishing; recreation; and highly-coveted fishing routes.
 
KING: And if you think about the Mediterranean Sea, there was 1,000 years of war to determine the relationships of those countries surrounding the Mediterranean Sea. The question is, can we open the Arctic and avoid the conflict? 
 
SANCHEZ: By some estimates, 75 percent of Arctic ice has disappeared in the last quarter century. In fact, some scientists believe we could see summers without any ice blocking the North Pole within the next dozen years. 
 
All that extra space means more shipping lanes and faster shipping times. We could see some shipping routes reduced by up to 15 days. That's a huge economic advantage. 
 
Keep in mind, though, Russia owns more than half of the coastline in the Arctic. And according to this graphic by the American Security Project, they've been steadily building it up militarily for years, with dozens of new bases and old retrofitted Soviet ones, as well. 
 
KING: If there is a conflict with Russia, it's one of the ways that Russia would come at us. I believe, unfortunately, we need to have some response to that. Not in a conflict situation but just in a defensive situation. 
 
SANCHEZ (voice-over): CNN got a firsthand look at Russia's northernmost outpost in 2021. And though the Kremlin insisted its intentions for the region were peaceful at the time, that was before the invasion of Ukraine. 
 
SANCHEZ: There's been speculation that Vladimir Putin might resort to using a nuclear weapon to reassert dominance. 
 
KING: And one of the possibilities is exploding it over the Arctic Ocean as a demonstration. 
 
BLINKEN: The Arctic is crucial to America's foreign policy and national security.
 
SANCHEZ (voice-over): While King applauds the Biden administration's new national strategy for the region, the co-chair of the Arctic Caucus says more will need to be done. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Russia has, like, 40 icebreakers. We have one. 
 
SANCHEZ (voice-over): As other nations, not even geographically close to the Arctic, like China and India, lay out their ambitions. Senator King wants a stronger naval presence there, more robust military infrastructure, and a commitment to international treaties, like the U.N. Law of the Sea. Steps he believes that could deter a possible war. 
 
KING: I don't know. I think the jury is out on that. But it's at least possible. And I think that would be positive for America and the whole world. 
 
SANCHEZ (voice-over): Boris Sanchez, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Thanks for watching, spending part of your day with me. I'm Michael Holmes. You can follow me on Twitter and Instagram, @HolmesCNN. Do stay with us. WORLD SPORT coming up next. And you'll see Laila Harrak in about 15 minutes with more news. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:31]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[00:58:04]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)