Headline: Anderson Cooper 360 Degrees
Sub-headline: Warnock And Walker Campaign In Final Push Ahead Of Tomorrow's Senate Runoff Election; Some Chinese Cities Loosen COVID Rules In Bid To Calm Protests; Father Of Slain Idaho Student Kaylee Goncalves Speaks Out. Aired 9-10p ET

Aired December 05, 2022 - 21:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[21:00:00] 
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: I mean, being in the sky, looking down on that, what's it like to be, on the ground, tonight, now?
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: First of all, that was exhilarating. I mean, at one point, you could probably see, in the piece, we had the doors open. And as we came over, one of the flows, Anderson, I looked over, and had my hand out as well. It's like opening a fully pre- heated oven. You feel that heat just hit you.
 
COOPER: Wow!
 
CULVER: And you also can smell and even, at times, taste the sulfur in the air, which on the ground, we're starting to smell as well. So, it's starting to spread around the island. 
 
And we're also starting to hear about reports of those strands of volcanic glass, called Pele's hair, going about 40 miles, from the volcanoes. So, they're already drifting pretty far.
 
COOPER: Wow!
 
CULVER: The concern is, of course, going to focus on that main roadway. And it's inching closer. It's slow at the bottom. It's going about 25 feet per hour, but it's about two miles away. And it's for that reason you've got the National Guard, 20 members, on standby. For now, they're going to focus on traffic control, because it's a tourist trap. But if it gets more serious, then they'll have to shut down that highway.
 
COOPER: And this can be seen from space, right?
 
CULVER: Well, I mean, that was the really unique thing. Even, in the dark of the night, you could see it from many miles away. 
 
And then, we have this image. This is provided from the International Space Station, and it's from outer space, looking down. And you can see, as it passed over, the Big Island and the Hawaii islands at that is the orange red glow.
 
COOPER: Wow!
 
CULVER: And yes, it's the spread--
 
COOPER: That's amazing!
 
CULVER: --that is also seen, from out of this world. And it felt like something, from out of this world. It really did.
 
COOPER: That's incredible!
 
David Culver, appreciate it, in Hawaii. Thank you.
 
We've got some breaking news, sad news, tonight. Emmy-winning actress, Kirstie Alley, has died of cancer. 
 
She was best-known for her work, on the hit TV comedy, "Cheers." She also starred, in the series, "Veronica's Closet," and appeared in the movie, "Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan." In later years, Alley played a version of herself, in the TV comedy, "Fat Actress." 
 
Her family just posted a statement, on social media, saying in part, "She was surrounded by her closest family and fought with great strength, leaving us with a certainty of her never-ending joy of living and whatever adventures lie ahead. As iconic as she was on screen, she was an even more amazing mother and grandmother."
 
Actress Kirstie Alley was 71-years-old.
 
Coming up, we're just hours, from the polls opening, in a runoff election, already breaking records. What will strong early voter turnout mean, as Herschel Walker tries to unseat U.S. Senator, Raphael Warnock, in Georgia? 
 
And will scenes like this come to an end, in China? Fareed Zakaria joins us, to discuss, the steps being taken, with the outrage over COVID restrictions, growing. All ahead.
 <br>[21:05:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COOPER: Another hour closer to polls, opening, tomorrow morning, in Georgia, for the final big event of the 2022 midterms. And as curtain- closers go, this one has been pretty much a blockbuster, with marquee names, Senator Raphael Warnock, the pastor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s church, Republican challenger and sports hero, Herschel Walker. 
 
Also, massive, massive ad spending, especially from the Democratic side, this time around, and high public interests, reflected in early voting numbers that were record-breaking. 
 
The race has also seen big-name surrogates, campaigning for each candidate, though the former President, who endorsed Walker, early on, has shied away, from coming to Georgia, in the closing hours, to campaign, in-person, for him.
 
We have reporters, covering both candidates, in these final hours; CNN's Eva McKend, in Atlanta, with the Warnock campaign; CNN's Jeff Zeleny, in Kennesaw, Georgia, with the Walker campaign.
 
I want to start with Eva.
 
How did Senator Warnock spend the final day on the trail?
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER: Well, Anderson, Senator Warnock spent these crucial final hours, I would say, shoring up support, with core constituencies, meeting with workers, going to a Black barbershop, meeting with college students. 
 
He has put a tremendous amount of emphasis, on the youth vote, in the closing days of this campaign, and then ending the night, in this big celebrity-filled rally, here, in Atlanta, an amazing violinist, on stage, right behind me.
 
(AUDIENCE CHEERS)
 
MCKEND: But I think closing out in Atlanta, really speaks to how Democrats are relying on these core groups, to come out, in a big way, on Election Day, in these regions, Anderson.
 
COOPER: And Warnock is cautioning supporters about getting overconfident?
 
MCKEND: Yes, he has time and time again. Clearly, Democrats are enjoying some momentum now. 
 
He speaks about how he was happy with how many folks came out, during the early-vote period. We know a significant amount of Black voters, which is such a core group for Democrats, came out, during that early vote period. But saying, don't spike the football, don't get overconfident. 
 
And he acknowledged actually tonight, at this rally that Republicans tend to come out on Election Day. So, telling his supporters, there is still work left to do, Anderson.
 
COOPER: Eva McKend, appreciate it.
 
Want to go now to CNN's Jeff Zeleny, with the Walker campaign, in Kennesaw, just northwest of Atlanta. 
 
What is Walker's closing argument?
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Well, Anderson, in a nutshell, it's "Vote." In fact, he said, "Vote! Vote! Vote!" three times in a row. He said, "Flood the polls. Let's vote." 
 
Turnout is key to Herschel Walker's campaign. Of course, that is always true on Election Day. But tomorrow, it is even more important. And this is why. As Eva was just saying there, Democrats certainly have an advantage, an edge, going into Election Day, because of early voting. 
 
In fact, there's some Republican hand-wringing and some angst that they did not do a better job, and they fault themselves, or other messengers, in the Republican Party, for not encouraging more, early voting.
 
Now, of course, there were some Republicans, who voted early. But Election Day turnout is absolutely essential, for his campaign. But he was also sort of casting his candidacy as more than himself. He said, "A vote for Raphael Warnock is a vote for Joe Biden, is a vote for Chuck Schumer." He said, "A vote for Herschel Walker is a vote for Georgia values."
 
So, even though the control of the Senate is not hinging, on this contest, here in Georgia, of course, committee assignments are, and it's going to give Democrats more breathing room, if they would get it. 
 
But Republicans really are looking for the Herschel Walker campaign, tomorrow, to sort of end this midterm election year, on a high note, if you will. There were certainly disappointments, in the midterm elections. Yes, they won control of the House, narrowly, but they did not win control of the Senate. So, that's what this race is about.
 
And Herschel Walker was, had a very short message, here, tonight, as he entered a rally, earlier this evening. And he was in this exact same spot, in Cobb County, in Kennesaw, one month ago, the night before the election evening. And there was an air of confidence that evening, in his voice, in talking to voters, Anderson, that was not as palpable here because they realize that they aren't as confident, going into Election Day, tomorrow, but they still were urging huge turnout.
 <br>[21:10:00]
 
And again, he's been outspent tremendously. They simply believe Republicans have not spent as much, and sent as much aid in, as they would have, if control of the Senate would have hinged on this, Anderson.
 
COOPER: Yes. Jeff Zeleny, appreciate it. Thanks.
 
Want to go next to Democratic strategist, James Carville. He's co-host of the "Politics War Room" podcast. 
 
Also, CNN Political Commentator, Scott Jennings, who served as Special Assistant to the President, in the George W. Bush administration.
 
James, obviously, we saw a lot of candidates, like Herschel Walker, supported by the former President, handpicked, in many cases, by the former President, lose their elections, last month. What do you think's going to happen, in Georgia, tomorrow?
 
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST, CO-HOST, "POLITICS WAR ROOM" PODCAST: Well, I don't know. But Herschel Walker is running the most buffonic Senate campaign, I've ever seen, in America. But--
 
COOPER: The most what?
 
CARVILLE: Buffonic, right?
 
COOPER: Buffonic?
 
CARVILLE: It's a derivative of the word, "Buffoon," right?
 
COOPER: OK.
 
CARVILLE: And but the polling of -- this Democratic happy-talk worries me a little bit. The polling I've seen is quite -- is tight. I mean, Warnock's got a slight lead. But this is Georgia, and anything can happen. 
 
And this happy-talk, I hope, no Democrat sees this, and decide to stay home, because they're going to have to carry through Election Day. And the early vote looks good. But they're going to take a shot.
 
What's going to happen, well, I think, is, Warnock's going to take a big lead, then Walker is going to cut into it, when these rural counties start reporting, and then probably Warnock will win, when Fulton and Gwinnett and DeKalb--
 
COOPER: James, I got to ask, what was particularly buffonic, about Walker's campaign?
 
CARVILLE: Oh, no good air, replacing bad air, in China, or werewolves can beat vampires? I mean, what else can you do? I mean, that's -- I mean, that's ludicrous. And I can't think of another Senate campaign that has said as many ludicrous and silly things, as Herschel Walker's said.
 
COOPER: Scott, what do you think is going to happen, tomorrow? I mean, the former President is hosting this virtual rally, for Walker, tonight. It's after his comments, over the weekend, about terminating the Constitution, a week of bad press, for having dinner with a white nationalist. 
 
I mean, does, him getting involved, in the Georgia runoff, does, that, at this point, really matter, one way or another? Does it enthuse people, who they need to get to the polls, tomorrow, who might not otherwise have gone?
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, FORMER SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: It's of no help, whatsoever. Look, I usually don't bet on politicians, only horses. I'm in Kentucky. Horses are a lot more predictable than politicians. 
 
But I'm not optimistic. I mean, as the Good Book says, "Hope springs eternal." But I think Mr. Carville laid out a case, for why Warnock has had a slight lead, in this thing. He had -- Walker had fewer votes on Election Day. 
 
And the challenge over this four-week period has been to keep those supporters energized, and then to find a few more Republicans, who didn't vote for you for some reason, and bring them in. 
 
I think the best thing they did, Anderson, in the four-week period, was get Brian Kemp engaged. He's the most popular politician, in the state. You'll notice that neither Biden nor Trump were anywhere near Georgia. Both parties kept out the two biggest names, in the parties, away from the state, because neither of them are very popular, down there. So, getting Kemp engaged was good. 
 
It strikes me, based on the early votes, what I've heard is that the Republicans are going to have to have a huge turnout, on Election Day. So, maybe it's good if the Republicans -- or if the Democrats rather think they've got it in the bag, like James said, because maybe they'll stay home. But, I got low expectations. But it's a runoff. And anything could happen.
 
COOPER: James, Walker made some bizarre comments, over the weekend. He appeared not to know if he was running for a seat in the Senate or the House of Representatives. 
 
You're a veteran political strategist. What does this mean, going forward? I mean, are there going to be more, in terms of the candidates that are -- I mean, or is anyone going to look to Donald Trump, to be picking candidates?
 
CARVILLE: Yes.
 
COOPER: What happens, the next round, two years from now?
 
CARVILLE: Look, Scott is in Kentucky. And his idol, Mitch McConnell, who's a pretty effective politician, said they have a "Candidate quality issue." And I think that was a pretty candid observation, by Senator McConnell.
 
But yes, I mean, this is not a high-quality Senate candidate. We can all agree on that, I mean. And I mean, the guy is just -- he was living in Texas. He comes back to Georgia. This is all Senator Lindsey Graham's idea. It was a really dumb idea.
 
But having said that, the polling, is uncomfortably close. I mean, I think that Warnock is going to win. But maybe it's 85-15. But you have a toddler, if you took it to the pediatrician, who said, "We'll give a test. 85 percent chance, it's going to be OK. But there's a 15 percent chance, your child's going to be paralyzed," you're going to say, "Well, hell with that. We're not doing that." 
 
I mean, 15 percent is not zero. It's not one. It's some chance, given the tightness it is that it could go the other way, and too much happy-talk can cause people to stay home.
 
COOPER: And Scott, that closeness, is that about love of Herschel Walker, as people really want to see him in the Senate, or is it they really want to see Republican, in the Senate, and there are not (ph) a lot of Republicans, in Georgia?
 <br>[21:15:00]
 
JENNINGS: Well, look, I think the closeness is, it's a purple state, and there are a lot of Republicans, and there's a lot of people, in Georgia that don't think Joe Biden's doing a very good job. I mean, you look at the CNN exit polls, from the general election, Biden was underwater. His policies are not all that popular. And so, there's a lot of -- I actually think, in everything, we've
 
 learned, from Election Day, forward, there's a lot of flashing red lights, for both parties. 
 
I think, the Republicans? I was talking to somebody the other night, who said something very simple. "You need to nominate your normal people of good character." 
 
And for the Democrats, I think there are still some warning signs, about Biden, and what he's doing. I know everybody has been celebratory, in the Democratic Party. But he's not all that popular. Otherwise, he'd be in Atlanta, Georgia, tonight. 
 
So look, I think it's close, because Georgia is one of the newest swing states, is going to be a swing state, in 2024. Republicans, even if they lose, tomorrow, I think, can still be competitive there. But there is something to this idea that people kind of want normal, boring, good character, and this Senate race is certainly had so many people on that front.
 
COOPER: James, do you agree that there's warning signs, for Democrats? And what are they? 
 
CARVILLE: Well, I mean, the warning signs, for Democrats, is we had -- we lost the popular vote, in a congressional election. 
 
Now, we did much better than we thought we were going to do, in terms of seats. I think we had low Black turnout, in the congressional elections, than most people realized. I mean, the quants have to go through, and mine through that data.
 
But I essentially agree with Scott, on this thing. I think Warnock is in an advantageous position, but not a certain position. And I think the Republicans have nominated some really goofy, I'm trying to think of another adjective, to what you would call some of these candidates that they have nominated. 
 
But, going forward, we need to seek, because this -- and I think Scott would agree with me, the Senate map is not very good for Democrats, in 2024. I'd like to have an extra seat, in my back pocket, going into that cycle, I guarantee you.
 
COOPER: James Carville, Scott Jennings, always a pleasure, appreciate it, guys. Thank you.
 
CARVILLE: Yes.
 
COOPER: Coming up, next, a live report from China, on what life is like, with the government apparently beginning to relax certain zero- COVID restrictions, in the wake of widespread protests, but where day- to-day existence is still obviously heavily controlled. 
 
Also, tonight, President Biden expected to possibly sign a new law, protecting same-sex marriage, this week. The matter, also before the Supreme Court. We'll get some perspective, from a married couple, including one spouse, who was the first, to lawfully marry, in this country.
 <br>[21:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COOPER: It is hard to imagine. But for the last year and a half or so, as much the world was grappling, with how to contain COVID, without locking society down, completely, China was locking down completely, so much so that ordinary people began taking to the streets, in a country, where doing so comes at a very steep cost. Now, in response, some local authorities appear to be easing restrictions, somewhat.
 
CNN's Selina Wang reports now, from Beijing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): This is the kind of line, Beijing are standing, outside in the cold, to get their COVID tests. A 48-hour test is required to get into most places. But there aren't many places to go. 
 
Much of Beijing is still closed down. This is one of the most popular tourist places, in the city. But the restaurants are largely closed, and the malls are pretty empty. 
 
So, this McDonald's is still open, but for takeaway only. But even to get takeaway, you've got to prove that you're clear of COVID. 
 
And here's how I do it. I open up the Health app, on my smartphone, I scan the QR code.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (FOREIGN LANGUAGE).
 
WANG (on camera): So, it says, I've got a green code, and I've got a recent COVID test. So, I'm good to go.
 
This code dictates all of our daily lives, in China. Green means good to go. Red means I may have to isolate at home, or go to a mass quarantine facility. This allows China to track the movements of virtually all 1.4 billion people in the name of contact tracing. I've got to scan my code, to get into a taxi, a public park, a mall, or a coffee shop, even a public bathroom.
 
WANG (voice-over): I ran into a group of delivery people, on the street. They've got to do COVID tests, every single day, to do their jobs.
 
This woman tells me the Pandemic has been hard on her. I ask her, why. She says, it's because she's scared of the virus.
 
WANG (on camera): Getting COVID in China is unlike anywhere else in the world. You and your close contacts all get sent to a quarantine center. 
 
This is a convention center, in Beijing that's been turned into a massive quarantine facility, with thousands of beds. But some of these facilities, in the country, they are in very rundown and unsanitary condition. And then, your whole building or community could go into lockdown.
 
WANG (voice-over): I spoke to a man, who has been in and out of quarantine, six times, already, just this year. He tells me, his whole building of more than 200 families went to a quarantine facility, last month, because they were considered close contacts. He says he's not scared to get COVID, because Omicron is less severe, and his whole family has been vaccinated.
 
I approached a few people just released from this mass quarantine center here. I ask, if they had tested positive for COVID. "Yes," the man nods, and says they have recovered. "How many days did you spend in there," I ask. "Seven days," he said.
 
Unprecedented protests recently erupted across China.
 
(PEOPLE PROTESTING)
 
WANG (on camera): They're chanting that they don't want COVID tests. They want freedom.
 
WANG (voice-over): Authorities swiftly crack down on the protesters. But they are finally softening their stance, on zero-COVID. Some cities are lifting lockdowns, changing COVID testing requirements. Under some conditions, people can now quarantine at home, if they have COVID, which is a huge deal.
 
But this country has already built up a whole infrastructure, around zero-COVID, spending all of its resources on quarantine facilities, and COVID testing. So, it's going to be a long and slow exit, from zero-COVID.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COOPER: Selina Wang joins us now.
 
If China's finally easing some COVID restrictions, does that mean that the protests worked? I mean, is that a victory for demonstrators?
 <br>[21:25:00]
 
WANG: Yes, Anderson, I think it's fair to call it this tentative partial victory, because it is remarkable to see that. In authoritarian China, protests appear to have forced the Communist Party, to essentially change its tune, on zero-COVID. It's clear that it made the government realize zero-COVID is not possible or sustainable, and it's even a threat to social stability. 
 
It's now been more than a year, since Omicron was first detected, but only now, Anderson, finally is state media citing months-old research, and publishing stories that Omicron is less deadly.
 
This is a huge shift in China, because before this, authorities were demonizing COVID, and in some cases, even censoring scientifically- accepted information. But the loosening of restrictions, here, they are happening in a patchwork, across the country. 
 
Some places are easing rules. Others are still clinging on to zero- COVID. And you have some people in China celebrating the change. But others, they're so frustrated and angry, because all of this has been a wake-up call that the government can take away your freedom, at any point, and overturn your life.
 
Anderson?
 
COOPER: Yes. Selina Wang, appreciate it.
 
I want to get some perspective now, from Fareed Zakaria, host of "FAREED ZAKARIA GPS."
 
Fareed, we've seen local Chinese authorities, begin to roll back COVID controls. Do you think this is being directed at the national level? Or are these local authorities being allowed more latitude, to make their own decisions?
 
FAREED ZAKARIA, CNN HOST, FAREED ZAKARIA GPS: No, this is a national decision. The Vice Premier, the head of the -- the China's COVID Czar, Sun Chunlan, said effectively that they were moving into a different phase that they're couching it, in terms, the new strains are not that -- not as virulent et cetera. 
 
But clearly, it is a retreat. They have realized that they simply cannot keep people locked up, with these kinds of punitive measures, forever. 
 
The problem, Anderson, is the population in China has very low immunity. Partly, this is the success of their zero-COVID policy. Very few people have had gotten COVID. But part of it is that they have been very slow on vaccines. 
 
And the Chinese vaccine, Sinovac, is not very good, particularly against Omicron, and the new variants. So, they have a problem. As they start opening up, the population, which does not have strong immunities, is going to start getting infected. What we have to see is what they do then.
 
COOPER: There has been some reporting that another issue is not just the low immunity numbers, but that China has spent the focus on maintaining this authoritarian, lockdown policy, and not using that as an opportunity, to build up the infrastructure, of the hospital systems, and the like, so that the money has gone toward the lockdown, as opposed to building up a medical infrastructure.
 
ZAKARIA: That's absolutely right. I think part of it was that they got spooked by the Pandemic. 
 
Part of it, I think, was a kind of defensive reaction to the Trump administration, badgering them, about origins of COVID. But they went full force into the idea that they were going to show the world that they can handle this better than anyone. It became a kind of test of systems for them. Another piece of it, Anderson, as I think you're implying is for the Communist Party, having a lot of control, over your citizens, seemed like a good idea. They had this traffic light system of red, yellow, and green, which told citizens when they could go where. And this perhaps comes more naturally to a system that is fundamentally about a lot of control. 
 
And they do not have a very strong public infrastructure system. One of the areas, where China has not had miraculous growth? And let's be clear. They have had miraculous growth, economically, and all that. But they don't have a great public health system. I mean, to give you a contrast, Cuba has a better public health system, I think, than China does.
 
COOPER: Wow!
 
ZAKARIA: But China is much richer.
 
COOPER: Multiple U.S. officials have voiced support, for the protesters. Do you think that will affect the Chinese response, in any way?
 
ZAKARIA: No. I think you've got to be very careful with this. These are real protests. It's a very interesting and important development. But mostly what people are protesting is the COVID lockdowns, and the crazy extent of them. 
 
There were some protests, which were against Xi Jinping, and against the Communist Party. But to a large extent, these seem to have been deep frustration, with the COVID policy. 
 
It's not clear to me that these are in the same league, as the kind of protests, in Iran, which are really existential, and about the Regime's, the nature of its ideological control, or, like the protests against Russia, and the hundreds of thousands of people fleeing.
 
This seems, to me, fundamentally centered around a policy that they think that the central government should reverse, rather than some kind of frontal attack, on the legitimacy, of the Communist Party.
 
COOPER: Fareed Zakaria, appreciate your time, fascinating. Thank you.
 
ZAKARIA: Pleasure.
 <br>[21:30:00]
 
COOPER: Coming up, President Biden, this week, could possibly sign into law, new protections, for same-sex marriages, just as Conservatives, on the Supreme Court, appear prepared, to limit some of those rights, in the name of religious freedom. How couples, who waited a long time, for the rights, view the road ahead?
 
Later, our first public look, at House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's husband, Paul, since he was attacked, at their home, in October. Details, coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COOPER: As Congress prepares to send its bill, to protect same-sex marriage rights, to President Biden's desk, possibly this week, some Conservatives, on the Supreme Court, seem sympathetic, today, to arguments that might chip away at those rights, specifically to a graphic designer, who wants to design websites for weddings, but does not want to work with same-sex couples. 
 
It is just the latest, the case, that the court has taken up that pits anti-discrimination laws versus questions of religious liberty.
 
Jason Carroll has more. 
 <br>[21:35:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Now that the Respect for Marriage Act will become law of the land, Marcia Kadish and, her wife, Kristin Sawyer, say they finally have cause to celebrate.
 
KRISTIN SAWYER, WIFE: Hurray! Hurray! 
 
To tell you the truth, I never thought I would see gay marriage legalized, in our lifetimes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You may kiss!
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yay!
 
CARROLL (voice-over): The two have been married now, for about two years. But Kadish earned a place, in U.S. history, for her previous marriage, in 2004.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I now pronounce that you are married.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): That's the year she wed Tanya McCloskey, at Cambridge City Hall, in Massachusetts. And in doing so, the two became the first same-sex couple, to be legally married, in the United States. McCloskey died in 2016, after battling cancer.
 
CARROLL (on camera): Do you recognize your place in history, being really the first?
 
MARCIA KADISH, WIFE: Well you guys remind me a lot!
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KADISH: I don't think about it, until it's brought up. I'm proud of it.
 
CARROLL (on camera): OK.
 
KADISH: Very. And I'm glad that I can speak out, whenever, about gay marriage, and just being gay. CARROLL (voice-over): It wasn't that long ago, when speaking out about gay marriage, was an unpopular idea. Kadish remembers the mood of the country, back in 2004.
 
KADISH: At my business, where I worked, how many disapproving faces, I saw, once I got married.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): No surprise, polling in 2004 showed most disapproved of gay marriage, with just 40 percent supporting it. Now, 70 percent of Americans are behind it.
 
CARROLL (on camera): What kind of a road has it been to get to where you are now?
 
SAWYER: A long one!
 
KADISH: Yes!
 
CARROLL (voice-over): A road marked by numerous events, over several decades. The Stonewall riots, back in 1969, led by gay and trans people of color, like Marsha P. Johnson; the push for same-sex civil unions, during the 90s; states striking down laws, opposing same-sex unions, in the early 2000s.
 
People like Edith Windsor, who in 2013, successfully challenged the Defense of Marriage Act, which had defined marriage as a union between a man and a woman.
 
Even as gay people cheered each milestone, some, such as Wyoming Republican, Dan Zwonitzer, wasn't sure the country would get to where it is now.
 
DAN ZWONITZER, (R) WYOMING STATE LEGISLATOR: We've just seen, and I think, some partisan divides and splits. And if you're a Republican, you have to believe this. If you're a Democrat, you have to believe that.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Zwonitzer has been married to his husband for four years. They have two children. He's been in office, representing Eastern Cheyenne, since 2005, and has defeated several anti-LGBTQ bills, in the state.
 
ZWONITZER: I do think marriage is a state right. And so, in my perfect world, right, every state would take that step, to codify same-sex marriage, and it shouldn't have to be a federal issue.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): There is still concern among those who support gay rights, this, after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade, this past summer.
 
(PEOPLE PROTESTING)
 
CARROLL (voice-over): They now worry, gay marriage could be next. And while the Respect for Marriage Act legally protects same-sex marriage, gay Americans, including younger ones, such as Laten Jordan, say there is still a lot of work ahead. LATEN JORDAN, LGBTQ+ ACTIVIST, HOWARD UNIVERSITY: I definitely do not think the fight is over. There is so much more to be done to protect rights, more broadly, just beyond same-sex marriage.
 
CARROLL (voice-over): Marcia Kadish, and Kristin Sawyer say, they know the fight is not over. But they also know how far they have come.
 
Jason Carroll, CNN, Boston.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COOPER: Still ahead, new details, in the investigation of the killing of four University of Idaho students, and what Police are saying about one of the victims, having a potential stalker.
 <br>[21:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COOPER: Tonight, we're getting new details, on the investigation, into the unsolved murders, of four University of Idaho students. 
 
Police today say they're continuing to look into the possibility that one of the victims had a stalker, and they are asking the public, for any tips or information. Investigators, this weekend, also said they've received more than 6,000 tips, collected more than 100 pieces of the physical evidence. But tonight, the killer appears to be still on the loose.
 
CNN's Veronica Miracle has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It's been more than three weeks, since the murders, of four University of Idaho students. And Police are starting to receive toxicology reports, on the victims' hair, fibers, blood and DNA, according to law enforcement, all considered critical evidence, from the crime scene. 
 
The case remains unsolved. Police still have not found a murder weapon, or named a suspect, frustrating at least one of the families of the victims. The father, of Kaylee Goncalves, is speaking out, making an appearance on Fox, Sunday morning.
 
STEVE GONCALVES, FATHER OF KAYLEE GONCALVES: I do not feel confident, and that's why I push the envelope, and say a little bit more. I hate to be that guy. But you know, there's a job to do for every -- everybody has a job and a role to play in this. This is my role as the parent.
 
MIRACLE (voice-over): Goncalves saying, he is trying to make sense of the information that Police have given him.
 
GONCALVES: I can kind of tell by my daughter's texts messages, she didn't call 911. She wasn't saying anything along the lines of like she had heard something, or she was in fear. So, I'm just putting the dots together. 
 
As far as the investigators, they're very tight-lipped, and they're keeping everything close to their vest. And I understand that.
 
MIRACLE (voice-over): But investigators saying to date they are trying to provide information, while protecting the integrity of the investigation, saying in a statement, "We firmly believe speculation and unvetted information is a disservice to the victims, their families and our community." 
 
The stabbing deaths of these four students, has created turmoil, at the University, and in the quiet community of Moscow that hasn't recorded a single murder, since 2015.
 
On Friday, at a memorial service, a local pastor, read letters, from two surviving roommates, Dylan Mortensen and Bethany Funke.
 
CHRIS GWINN, PASTOR, REAL LIFE MINISTRIES: And this is from Bethany. "Maddie, Kaylee, Xana, and Ethan were truly all one of a kind. They all lit up any room they walked into and were gifts to this world."
 
MIRACLE (voice-over): Expressing the sentiments of so many others who have gathered to honor the victims.
 
GWINN: "I just want you to know that I will always love you and miss you forever."
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[21:45:00]
 
COOPER: And Veronica Miracle joins us now, from Moscow, Idaho.
 
What's the latest, on Police, looking to one of the victims, potentially having a stalker?
 
MIRACLE: Well, Anderson, since the start of this investigation, there has been talk that Kaylee Goncalves may have had a stalker. 
 
Well, Police came out today, and they said that there was an incident that they looked into that happened in October, and they're ruling that out as being associated with these murders. So, they are saying that they're continuing to look into the possibility that Kaylee may have had a stalker, but they're reaching out to the public for information and tips and leads. 
 
The Police also did reiterate to me today that any information that was released over the weekend that did not come from their department, it's not information that they are revealing at this time.
 
Anderson?
 
COOPER: Veronica Miracle, appreciate it. Thanks.
 
Up next, Harry and Meghan apparently ready to reveal more of what made them walk away, from Royal life, a preview -- excuse me, a new docuseries coming soon after another scandal for Buckingham Palace.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COOPER: Three months, to the day, since Queen Elizabeth's death, the Royal Family will be the focus of new attention, whether it wants to be or not. 
 <br>[21:50:00]
 
The first part of the Netflix docuseries, "Harry &amp; Meghan" premieres Friday. A new promotional trailer appears to show the Duke and Duchess of Sussex ready to reveal more, of the less than fairytale side, of their lives, before leaving their Royal duties behind. Here's a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRINCE HARRY, DUKE OF SUSSEX: It's really hard to look back on it now and go, "What on earth happened?"
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You hear that? That is the sound of hearts breaking all around the world.
 
PIERS MORGAN, BRITISH BROADCASTER: She's becoming a royal rockstar!
 
MEGHAN, DUCHESS OF SUSSEX: And then.
 
PRINCE HARRY: Everything changed. 
 
There's a hierarchy of the family. There's leaking, but there's also planting of stories.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There was a war against Meghan to suit other people's agendas.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's about hatred. It's about race.
 
PRINCE HARRY: It's a dirty game. 
 
The pain and suffering of women marrying into this institution, this feeding frenzy.
 
MEGHAN: I realized, "They're never going to protect you."
 
PRINCE HARRY: I was terrified. I didn't want history to repeat itself.
 
No one knows the full truth. We know the full truth.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COOPER: Our Royal Correspondent, Max Foster, is in London. 
 
It's interesting to watch this trailer. Because, certainly, the tone of it and the editing of it, I mean, it certainly looks like the story of how people, who are women, who are new to the family, are been treated, and the comparisons to Princess Diana are clear. But it seems that it's, the criticism is of the Royal Family itself,
 
 and leaking and planting of stories, not so much the media frenzy, which was the focus, during Princess Diana's time.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it's a six-part series. So, I think there's going to be a lot in there. 
 
The general themes that we've heard before, are that the tabloid press, in particular, social media, were attacking this couple, particularly Meghan, and the Palace refused to protect them, or didn't protect them enough, and even went as far as planting stories against them. So, that's the sort of theme, we've had before, which they are reiterating here.
 
What we're looking for is the specific examples really, of that. So that's what we're looking for, within this six-part series, to give the Palace something to answer back to, because we were precious -- you know, we need those examples. 
 
The Palace denies all of these accusations. They have done in the past, when they've been raised. They say they did protect Meghan, and they wanted to have her in the family, and they wanted to support her.
 
COOPER: Is there any sense of how concerned the Royal Family may be, about this, or the Palace, around them, the staff, at the Palace, around them?
 
FOSTER: They're certainly very nervous, about this. They're not coming out and saying anything officially, at this point, because they haven't seen it. No one's seen it, apart from a very tight circle. And it lands on Thursday. So, they have to give it some time to have a look at it.
 
Of course, the traditional policy is to ignore these things. They've done that in the past. But it's interesting, I wonder if things will be different, this time, under King Charles, because under the Queen, her policy was to keep a stiff upper lip. 
 
King Charles is more outspoken. Prince William is even more outspoken. And I think that they will want to start addressing some of the specifics, if they do come up, in this series, because it is very damaging, for the Monarchy. It's damaging for the U.K. And they want to protect that. Once they've seen some of the specifics in there, I wonder if under this new Monarchy, there may be a more vociferous response.
 
COOPER: There's also Prince Harry's memoir, which is coming out, in January, I believe. And obviously, the Palace would have to be concerned in anything that they say, now in response to this Netflix documentary, than having to respond or feeling the need to respond yet again after the book.
 
FOSTER: Well, I think they're going to have to reconsider their sort of communications policy, frankly, because under this age, as damage is done, to the Monarchy, through the accusations? They need to have some sort of right of reply, if they want to counter these. Otherwise, it is doing endless damage to the brand. Certainly,
 
 internationally, being seen as a racist institution is not healthy for the Monarchy of the United Kingdom. So, they're going to have to look at how to respond to this. I think it's a real struggle, because it just feeds into the Sussexes, and the conversation that they want to have, frankly, and they don't want to have back in the U.K.
 
But Prince William, he gets upset about these things, just as Prince Harry is upset. I think that he may want to express himself, at some point. But we'll have to just see what's in it. It's complete mystery at the moment.
 
We will see them, Anderson, tomorrow night, out receiving a Human Rights award, in New York. So, I'm sure a few questions will be thrown out that we might be hearing, a few more comments, before the actual series drops, on Thursday.
 
COOPER: But you think it's possible that Prince William might want to respond at some point?
 <br>[21:55:00]
 
FOSTER: I think he's just got to the point, and now that he's in a more elevated position that he cannot let these accusations just sit there. They're clearly not things that the Sussexes are just going to leave to lie anymore. 
 
When they came over, for the funeral, they were giving a very high billing. They were given a huge amount of respect, from Buckingham Palace, from Charles and from William. And I think there was frankly some hope that that would help re-heal the bond with the Sussexes. 
 
But this is a clear evidence that the Sussexes aren't going to let this go.
 
COOPER: Yes. Max Foster, in London, appreciate it. Thank you, Max.
 
Want to leave you with some positive news. After the attack on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's husband, in October, 82-year-old Paul Pelosi attended The Kennedy Center Honors, in Washington, D.C., last night, with his wife. It is his first public appearance, since an intruder broke into their San Francisco home, and attacked him, with a hammer. 
 
President Biden was also there, last night, made a fist-bump, to Mr. Pelosi, as he walked to his seat, with the first lady. The Speaker's husband is recovering, from a skull fracture, and serious injuries.
 
The Kennedy Center Honors will air December 28.
 
News continues. Want to turn things over now, to Laura Coates, and "CNN TONIGHT," right after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)