Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Ukraine Works To Restore Power After Massive Russian Assault; Danish FA Says It Will Not Support Infantino Re-Election; U.N. Agrees To Investigate Protest Crackdown In Iran. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired November 24, 2022 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)   
 <br>[11:00:27]   
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN ANCHOR:   Well, hello, and welcome back to what is a Special Edition of CONNECT WORLD this week. I'm Becky Anderson coming to 
 
 you live from Doha, where we will have all the key updates from the World Cup here in just a few moments. First, let's get you to our top 
 
 international stories this hour.   
 
And heat and water are gradually being restored throughout Ukraine, following Russia's massive assault on key infrastructure. The state's 
 
 energy company though warns it's taking longer than usual because he attacks targeted all four of the country's nuclear plants. Now, officials 
 
 say electricity has been supplied to every region nationwide and now households are slowly being connected.   
 
Well, about a quarter of homes in the capital city are still in the dark as we understand it. And Ukraine's President says as the temperatures drop 
 
 below zero, the Russian onslaught is an obvious crime against humanity that is analogous to using weapons of mass destruction.   
 
Well, CNN's Matthew Chance went to visit a reception center in the southern city of Odesa, where many of those suffering after the power outages are 
 
 going to simply get some basic supplies have a look at this.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)   
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:   Right. Well, all over Ukraine, people, because of the Russian missile strikes are being 
 
 forced to abandon their towns and villages and their homes and come to receptions like - centers like this one in Odesa to try and get some basic 
 
 supplies.   
 
(Foreign language), what kind of things do you have here, I'm asking here.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   (Foreign language).   
 
CHANCE:   What's that? All right. Okay. Sanitizer, sanitizer--   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   (Foreign language).   
 
CHANCE:   Yes, soap. (Foreign language) food as well.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   (Foreign language).   
 
CHANCE:   It's a - it's flour. (Foreign language)--   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   (Foreign language)--   
 
CHANCE:   Yes, (foreign language) fish, it's tin fish. So all sorts of things, some of it, of course, given by private donors and see some of it 
 
 from USAID from the U.S. aid organization, the government aid organization and it is really just scratching the surface when it comes to the 
 
 humanitarian needs.   
 
Right. Well, we've come inside the reception center and you can see there are people sort of crowded in here giving their details so they can receive 
 
 some of this aid distribution. I'm going to speak to one of the organizer, Victoria, hi. Have you a ...   
 
VICTORIA:   Hi.   
 
CHANCE:   .... have you got a minute.   
 
VICTORIA:   Hello.   
 
CHANCE:   Yes, hi. How many - thank you, how many people do you look after every day here in the center?   
 
VICTORIA (off camera):   Everyday, we have from 500 to 700 families.   
 
CHANCE (off camera):   Families.   
 
VICTORIA (off camera):   A day, yes.   
 
CHANCE (off camera):   So that's how many people?   
 
VICTORIA (off camera):   Yes, I cannot count how many.   
 
CHANCE (off camera):   It's more than a thousand, right?   
 
VICTORIA (off camera):   Yes, it's (inaudible), yes.   
 
CHANCE (off camera):   Yes, it's a lot. And is that number increasing?   
 
VICTORIA:   It goes up. The quantity goes up.   
 
I don't know it's very hard because these three days we had no light.   
 
CHANCE:   Yes.   
 
VICTORIA:   And a lot of houses are totally depends on light, so ...   
 
CHANCE:   Yes. So people have got no electricity.   
 
VICTORIA:   Yes. We have no warms, we have no ...   
 
CHANCE:   No heating.   
 
VICTORIA:   Yes. Yes. So ...   
 
CHANCE:   No heating. And people can't cook food and keep warm.   
 
VICTORIA:   Yes.   
 
CHANCE:   All right. Well, just outside the reception center, we found this food kitchen that's been set up here in the center of Odesa, which is 
 
 obviously giving people, perhaps, the only hot meal they can get in these very difficult times of power cuts, food shortages.   
 
It's been here, this facility, for some years before the war, but in the past few months, the situation has got a lot worse, refugees, displaced 
 
 people from around Ukraine are highly dependent on this and the humanitarian situation in the country because of the Russian missile 
 
 strikes and the ongoing conflict is getting a lot worse.   
 
Matthew Chance, CNN in the center of Odesa in southern Ukraine.   
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)   
 
ANDERSON:   Well Kremlin attacks on Ukraine's energy facilities are deepening the misery for civilians nationwide. You saw - that reflected in 
 
 Matthews report there as Russia's war officially reaches the nine month mark. In Kyiv, surgeons performing heart surgery on a child were forced to 
 
 use a torch light during Wednesday's blackout. And a senior WHO, World Health Organization, official is now warning that the lives of millions of 
 
 Ukrainians are in jeopardy due to that lack of fuel and electricity.   
 <br>[11:05:08]   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
DR. HANS KLUGE, W.H.O. REGIONAL DIRECTOR:   The winter will be a massive threat to millions of Ukrainians due to the fact that maternity wards 
 
 cannot function without incubators. Intensive Care Units cannot function without ventilators. And vaccine storages cannot function without fridges, 
 
 it's that simple.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
ANDERSON:   It is that simple. And while ordinary Ukrainians are struggling to deal with Russia's constant shelling and attacks on that infrastructure, 
 
 some are dealing with the Russian military in their own and very direct way. I want to bring in Sam Kiley, who spoke with members of a resistance 
 
 that helped, Sam, liberate Kherson. You heard some powerful stories. What have people been telling you?   
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:   Well, Becky, I think you mentioned the ordinary Ukrainians, I would say ordinary Ukrainians as 
 
 they are in so many other places that were forced very often to do extra ordinary things.   
 
And in the battle for Kherson, which was the city and, of course, 40 percent of the land area of that province were liberated at the beginning 
 
 of this month, absolutely crucial to that operation from the Ukrainian perspective, where the partisans behind the line, some of them very young 
 
 and some of them taking the law very much into their own hands. This is how it unfolded.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)   
 
ARCHIE (through interpreter):   I didn't want--   
 
KILEY (voice over):   Archie (ph) killed twice while he was still a teenager.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)   
 
If I'm the guy, who stops to pee, so I'm having a pee and then what did you do? Oh, God, I got a chill.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KILEY (voice over):   He says he left his victim to bleed on the grass in the pitch dark. Archie struck again moments later, another drunk Russian 
 
 soldier. Another throat cut. He acted alone, but now he was one of Kherson's resistance fighters.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
ARCHIE (through interpreter):   They're wasted. It had only been a few days since they entered the city. I finished the first one immediately and then 
 
 caught up with the other one and killed him on the spot. I threw away the knife and the jacket covered with blood and just left.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KILEY (voice over):   Archie was only 19 when the Russians captured his city in March. With a friend, he says, he drove around the city gathering 
 
 intelligence to send to Ukraine's armed forces.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
ARCHIE (through interpreter):   At least 10 Russians were slaughtered every night. I wasn't the only one in Kherson. There were a lot of athletic and 
 
 clever partisan guys.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KILEY (voice over):   For eight months, Ukrainian partisans waged a psychological war against the occupiers and their collaborators, targeting 
 
 Ukrainians who took top posts handed out by Russia.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)   
 
KIRIL STREMOUSOV, RUSSIAN-APPOINTED DEPUTY HEAD OF KHERSON REGION (through interpreter):   As a result of a sneaky terrorist attack today, our 
 
 colleague, my friend, Dimitri Savchenko (ph), has died.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KILEY (voice over):   Stremousov himself would die in the final days of Russia's occupation of Kherson City, which ended three weeks ago. Kherson 
 
 was the only regional capital to fall to Russia, but its population made sure that the invaders were unwelcome from the start.   
 
That's incoming. Then in the last hour or so that we've been here in Kherson has been a constant shelling backwards and forwards, almost all of 
 
 that shelling will ultimately rely on somebody on the ground, telling the gunner where to drop those bombs.   
 
Ehor (ph) is a young father. This warehouse is wrecked because of him.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
EHOR (through interpreter):   The Russian military kept here around 20 to 30 vehicles. There were armored trucks, ABCs (ph) and the Russians lived 
 
 here. I was passing by this place and I saw all the vehicles.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KILEY (voice over):   Ehor (ph) communicated on his phone app with his handler, codename 'the smoke'.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
EHOR (through interpreter):   I turn on the camera and pointed it at the building and I was just walking and talking on the phone and the camera was 
 
 filming. I deleted the video, of course, because if they would stop me somewhere and check my videos and pictures, there'll be questions.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KILEY (voice over):   Less than a day later, he says, Russian vehicles were a mangled mess. As Ukraine rained missiles down on the newly identified 
 
 target. It was a crucial step in destroying Russia's capacity to hold on to the city. With the Russians now massed on the eastern side of the Dnipro 
 
 River, they're close and still control 60 percent of the province, which they claim is now part of Russia. No doubt there are many Ukrainians among 
 
 them, who will also prepare to prove them wrong and take kill.   
 <br>[11:10:00]   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KILEY (off camera):   Do you feel sorry for the guys who killed at all?   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   (Foreign language).   
 
ARCHIE:   Net. No.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)   
 
KILEY (on camera):   Now, Becky, of course, you'll be aware that the Ukrainian spend a great deal of effort also trying to weed out 
 
 collaborators, people supportive of the Russian effort here who are doing similar things, particularly in terms of giving coordinates to locations 
 
 used by the Russian - or on the Ukrainian Armed Forces, allowing the Russians to target them more and more effectively, Becky.   
 
ANDERSON:   Who could have imagined that a 19-year-old's life could change so much in what - eight, nine months. Sam, when you talk to people in 
 
 Kherson, an area liberated at this point, but facing a very, very difficult winter, what are they telling you about the prospect or their hopes for 
 
 peace at this point?   
 
KILEY:   They're very, very anxious indeed, Becky. The Russians are just to the other side of the river as you heard in that report. There was a salvo 
 
 of incoming rockets, where we were out in the street filming with young Archie there. But I think that the real concern could be that if the 
 
 Russians dig in, if they bring in a large amount of rockets and other artillery, this could be another Mariupol, but done by remote.   
 
Rather than assaulting the city, there really is a strong concern that the Russians might try to just flatten it. It's for that reason that the 
 
 Ukrainians have really got a difficult dilemma. Do they try to press on their attacks against the Russian part of Kherson towards Crimea or do they 
 
 send troops to relieve the eastern front, which at the moment is vicious, deeply, deeply vicious and very, very bloody. It's not getting a lot of 
 
 publicity, but there was ferocious fighting going on in the east as we speak, Becky?   
 
ANDERSON:   Sam Kiley is on the ground for you. Sam, thank you. And you can read a lot more of Sam's exclusive reporting and the young man you saw 
 
 there in his piece more on him after the Russians took control of Kherson back in March. The Ukrainian military turning to what were ordinary 
 
 citizens as a key pocket of resistance to take back that city. That story is at cnn.com or on your CNN app.   
 
Well, the war in Ukraine continues to create ripples throughout Europe, especially when it comes to the cost of energy. European Union states 
 
 failed today to agree upon a measure to cap natural gas prices at a meeting. The proposal was an effort to curtail energy costs heading into 
 
 winter, but some states said the proposed cap was so high, it would have no impact.   
 
CNN's Anna Stewart tracking the story of for us. This is about gas prices. EU ministers failing today to agree on a wholesale gas price cap. Beginning 
 
 of December, of course, we will find out about how Europe and the West indeed is looking to cap Russian oil. What happened today?   
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER:   So today, Becky, was the next meeting of energy ministers in the EU to discuss a variety of options. And they do 
 
 agree on things like procuring gas as a block, they agree on accelerating the deployment of renewable energy, but where they don't agree on and we 
 
 knew this actually coming into the meeting is they don't agree on how to cap the price of gas and whether, in fact, actually you should.   
 
And so we knew this for many weeks that this has become quite a sort of emotional topic for different member states really digging their heels in, 
 
 going into the meeting. I was looking at some of the doorsteps of ministers. The Czech Deputy Prime Minister said it would be a spicy 
 
 meeting. We had the Maltese Energy Minister saying the proposal wasn't an - I'll quote, "fit for purpose."   
 
So it was pretty clear before the meeting even began that they weren't going to really reach an agreement on this main point. And, of course, they 
 
 didn't and this is how it wrapped up with the Czech Minister for Industry and trade. Take a listen.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
JOZEF SIKELA, CZECH MINISTER FOR INDUSTRY AND TRADE:   I am glad to inform you that today, we are once again sending a clear message of unity. We are 
 
 not opening the champagne yet but put the bottle in the fridge.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
STEWART:   I'm not sure the message of unity was all that clear, but it was clear as mud and I'm not sure the champagne analogy got many laughs there 
 
 in the press conference. The block is divided on how to go about this. The EU Commission found a sort of midway proposal to bring the two sides of the 
 
 EU together on it. They were proposing capping the front month per month of gas futures for the next month ahead to _275 per megawatt hour.   
 
I won't get into the weeds of it, essentially though, that is so high that it would be very rare that it would ever get triggered, so you question the 
 
 use of that cap. Some countries don't think a cap is a good idea at all and in fact that wouldn't do much in terms of reducing demand of gas which is a 
 
 painful but very useful tool, others just wants to see a much stronger cap all together.   
 <br>[11:15:02]   
 
They're going to meet again next month middle of December, so less than a month ago. They are so far apart on this issue. I don't see how they're 
 
 going to find a compromise, Becky.   
 
ANDERSON:   Yes. No, it's fascinating, isn't it? Anna, always a pleasure. Thank you very much indeed.   
 
Now, a Russian bill that expands a ban on what's being described as LGBT propaganda, and that is in inverted commas there because that is the line 
 
 from the Russians, has been approved by the lower house of parliament there. Under the measure, any attempt to promote homosexuality could result 
 
 in a heavy fine.   
 
The original version applies only to children. Now lawmakers are including adults as well. The chairman of Russia's Duma blasted the U.S. in a 
 
 statement. Have a listen.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
VYACHESLAV VOLODIN, RUSSIAN STATE DUMA CHAIRMAN (through interpreter):   It is the best answer to the United States Secretary of State, Blinken, stop 
 
 imposing on us foreign values. You destroyed your values. We'll see how it ends, but that is sad for sure, because it is sodomy. I can't say it in any 
 
 other way. The United States of America has become the global center of this sodomy, let them live there, do not touch us.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
ANDERSON:   Well, individuals who spread watch that Russian bill calls propaganda praising homosexual lifestyles or even publicly suggesting they 
 
 are normal can face a fine of more than $6,000.   
 
You are watching CONNECT WORLD I'm Becky Anderson live for you from Doha in Qatar as the first matches in the World Cup group stage are wrapping up, 
 
 the One Love armband controversy is heating up. We'll be talking to one of the key stakeholders, the head of the Danish Football Association about 
 
 that coming up.   
 
Plus, women, life, freedom, the rallying cry in Iran that has a long and storied history. I'll speak with an award winning Iranian artist about 
 
 those three words and about her latest work.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)   
 <br>[11:19:24]   
 
ANDERSON:   Well, by the end of the day, all 32 World Cup teams will have played their first matches of this tournament. Group stage openers conclude 
 
 later when favorite Brazil face off against Serbia. Entering this tournament on a high note and other high profile match is currently 
 
 underway as I speak. Ghana Portugal with Portugal captain, on this occasion, Cristiano Ronaldo on the pitch after what has been his 
 
 acrimonious departure from Manchester United, of course, in the past few days. Right now that match is at nil nil.   
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
Well, in earlier play today, Switzerland defeated Cameroon one nil and the Uruguay-South Korea match finished in a scoreless draw and it was a 
 
 tremendously exciting match, I have to say.   
 
The second matches of the group stage begin tomorrow, including a highly anticipated face off between England and the United States. Well, that's 
 
 what's going on, on the pitch the fallout from the One Love armband controversy is deepening off it. FIFA warned European nations that players 
 
 wearing the armbands, which are meant to support inclusion in the sport would face sporting sanctions by which we are talking about, as I 
 
 understand it, fines and all yellow cards.   
 
And now seven of those teams that wanted to wear those armbands are considering legal action according to the Dutch Football Association and 
 
 the Danish Football Association has taken that one step further saying they will not support the reelection of FIFA's president, Gianni Infantino.   
 
Its CEO Jakob Jensen Jakob furious over FIFA's handling of One Love saying in a news conference that and I quote him here: "I think the hammering 
 
 should be on FIFA for not allowing what is a very simple message." Well, Jakob Jensen joins me now.   
 
Why are you choosing not to ban Gianni Infantino as president? And you say that you will launch legal action against this decision to ban or not allow 
 
 players to wear the armband, so what do you mean by that?   
 
JAKOB JENSEN, CEO, DANISH FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION:   So we're choosing not to support Infantino due to the dividing messages he's been giving at this 
 
 World Cup. We believe that football is a game that unites the world and we find the way that the press statement was giving was not exactly gathering 
 
 all of us.   
 
On the legal action, we've said we're investigating the legal opportunities. I think there's not a big chance that we're going to have 
 
 legal success, but we're investigating what can we do in order to react to FIFA because we find this very late decision by FIFA unjust and unfair.   
 
ANDERSON:   Let me put it you like this, if you think this is all about human rights, which - and there are many, many people around the world who 
 
 agree with you on that. And you are clearly wanting to take a stand, why not just have the players wear the armbands and take the fine or booking?   
 
JENSEN:   I think we've been taking a stance since 2015. We've been coming here for seven years having dialogue, critical dialogue with authorities, 
 
 with FIFA, with the supreme committee. The sanction in hand was not just a yellow card, it was at the very minimum, a yellow card, it could have been 
 
 that captain was not allowed to enter the pitch, it could have been that he was not allowed to play the next match.   
 
So these fantastic football players now team, they've been dreaming of the World Cup since they were little boys. We do not want to take them off the 
 
 pitch. We want the matches to be one on the pitch, not behind a desk. So that's why we chose to do as we get together with a very good colleagues 
 
 and six others which is ...   
 
ANDERSON:   There will be those watching who say, isn't standing up for human rights worth taking the yellow card for, at least?   
 
JENSEN:   Yes, human - understanding up for human rights is - we've been working on this for so many years, we've been working on improving the 
 
 conditions of migrant workers here on LGBTQ Plus people on free and critical press. So we've been coming here for seven years with one message, 
 
 human rights rule and that's still our message. And then we have sort of two paths. One path is having the dialogue with authorities with FIFA with 
 
 the supreme committee, the other path is playing football. We don't want to mix up those two paths.   
 
ANDERSON:   But I have to press you on this ...   
 
JENSEN:   You're welcome.   
 
ANDERSON:   ... standing up for universal rights to many people watching this would suggest taking at least a yellow card. What you're saying is 
 
 you're not prepared to put the pressure on the players for that. If one of your players wanted to wear, if a captain wanted to wear the armband, 
 
 which, as I understand it, he did. Would you back him?   
 
JENSEN:   I think it's not the responsibility of the players to discuss human rights in Qatar or to discuss the decisions of FIFA ...   
 
ANDERSON:   This is a FIFA decision.   
 
JENSEN:   ... this is a FIFA decision. The players are here to play the World Cup. They've been looking forward to that. I'm here as the CEO of FA. 
 
 I mean, I'm standing firmly together with colleagues from six other associations. We're trying to press FIFA on this.   
 
We wrote to FIFA on September 19th. We got an answer on the very day that England was playing its match. I find that very dissatisfactory. We have 
 
 great dissatisfaction with that, so we're still pushing but we did our best before the matches and FIFA were very late.   
 
ANDERSON:   Jakob, your critics might say that you and other European federations are actually sort of hiding behind FIFA on this and if you felt 
 
 strongly - as strongly about this, you might have boycotted the tournament entirely.   
 
JENSEN:   Yes.   
 <br>[11:25:00]   
 
But we do not believe in boycotting, we do believe that you make a difference participating, discussing, engaging in dialogue. It would have 
 
 been very easy to boycott everything. I think a lot of our critics would have been happy if we had boycotted, but that was never an issue for us.   
 
ANDERSON:   So let me ask you this, yesterday we saw the German and Belgian ministers wearing One Love armband sitting next to Gianni Infantino.   
 
JENSEN:   Yes.   
 
ANDERSON:   He doesn't seem to have a problem with that. He seems to have a problem and says this is all about sporting equipment on the field and One 
 
 Love armband isn't sanctioned to be worn on the field. We've seen the German team with their hands over their mouths suggesting that they are 
 
 being - that people's freedom of speech is being denied here. So what are you going to do?   
 
JENSEN:   Well ...   
 
ANDERSON:   And what's Danish team are going to do?   
 
JENSEN:   ... well, you're talking about the ministers as well we had the former Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt of Denmark here. She was 
 
 wearing a beautiful dress with rainbow armbands in the dress. We're coordinating closely with the six other federations. We have a political 
 
 traction, we have a legal traction as well, we're looking into several opportunities.   
 
But I have to say, I think, as I said in the press conference yesterday, the hammering should be on FIFA. They've waited four months to tell us 
 
 about this. They tell us on the very day that Harry Kane (inaudible) into the pitch with the armband on. So it's fair enough you give us all the 
 
 criticism, but I think the criticism should be given FIFA.   
 
ANDERSON:   No. I'm countering the argument that you have with what your critics are suggesting and I think that's just - that's fair enough and 
 
 it's good to have you on ...   
 
JENSEN:   Absolutely. Absolutely.   
 
ANDERSON:   ... so that we have this discussion.   
 
You've denied media reports that the Danish FA is considering pulling out of FIFA?   
 
JENSEN:   Yes.   
 
ANDERSON:   You're not satisfied though clearly with the organization. You've said they should be given a hammering on this. It shouldn't be that 
 
 the players were involved or the Federations were involved, but it should be FIFA who's getting hammering on this. What's your alternative then? 
 
 What's your alternative? I mean, you ...   
 
JENSEN:   Well, basically, there is no big alternatives to FIFA if you want to play football in the world. We're one of nine founding members of FIFA 
 
 and certainly we've considered several times should we leave FIFA but it really doesn't make a lot of sense to leave FIFA.   
 
Once again, our tactic is to try to change things in the room, to try to improve FIFA from the inside. And obviously, we're one of a few nations now 
 
 not backing Infantino. We hope others will join us. With that being said, I think it's pretty obvious that Infantino will be elected.   
 
ANDERSON:   The French Sports Minister encouraging football players to express commitment to human rights after the Germans covered their mouths. 
 
 What stopping Denmark doing that?   
 
JENSEN:   I think it - what we're doing cannot be boiled down to what we're going to do in one match, I think we should visit our website, you should 
 
 see all the actions we've done for the last seven years or the critical dialogue we've been entering into all the corporate collaboration we've 
 
 doing ...   
 
ANDERSON:   I've read it, by the way. I have read it.   
 
JENSEN:   ... with MSE international with human rights watch.   
 
ANDERSON:   I'm well aware of it, yes.   
 
JENSEN:   With a lot of organizations trying to improve things. And what amnesty is actually telling us is that the pressure that we've been putting 
 
 on FIFA and Qatar on the World Cup together with other organizations with other football associations actually has improved conditions.   
 
ANDERSON:   And you know that the migrant workers' conditions here have been improved.   
 
JENSEN:   Oh, I know.   
 
ANDERSON:   And there has been report and I think we can all agree that the pressure from rights groups and the media across the board.   
 
JENSEN:   Exactly.   
 
ANDERSON:   And we're in this region has led to significant improvements. And I have to say from somebody who works in this region, lives in this 
 
 region and as a journalist in this region, those improvements are not just here in Qatar, they are across the region. So we should applaud ...   
 
JENSEN:   I commend that. I commend that.   
 
ANDERSON:   ... everybody involved and ...   
 
JENSEN:   And I agree. I agree.   
 
ANDERSON:   I have to ask you, coach of the Danish team has said he's come here to win the World Cup. And we've been talking about the One Love 
 
 armband controversy and that is an important topic of discussion. What (inaudible) what's going on, on the pitch, you got Eriksen back in the 
 
 team, can Denmark go all the way?   
 
JENSEN:   We can go all the way. We're number 10 in the world. I think we're punching above our weight. We reached the semifinals in the Euros. 
 
 We've got Eriksen back, we've got a very strong team. We didn't play the best match in our opening match but we're playing France next and you know 
 
 we beat France both in Paris and in Copenhagen between ...   
 
ANDERSON:   They've turned up thought, hasn't they?   
 
JENSEN:   ... in the last three months.   
 
ANDERSON:   They've turned up to this tournament.   
 
JENSEN:   They've turned up and it's not going to be an easy match, but I think, we have a good chance of getting far on this tournament. We're going 
 
 to do our utmost and we have fantastic football players and Eriksen is just one of the greatest (inaudible) ...   
 
ANDERSON:   How is he?   
 
JENSEN:   Eriksen is great. You know he's one of the best players of Man (ph) United at this time. He's a brilliant player on our team. A fantastic 
 
 guy. We are so happy that he's back.   
 
ANDERSON:   It's good to have you on (inaudible) play for the team (inaudible) and we miss him. It's good to have you. Thank you very much 
 
 indeed, sir.   
 
JENSEN:   Thank you for having me.   
 
ANDERSON:   We're taking a very short break. Back after this.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)   
 <br>[11:32:02]   
 
ANDERSON:   (Inaudible) --   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:   (Foreign language).   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)   
 <br>[11:34:27]   
 
ANDERSON:   Right. Welcome back. Apologies, I think we've been having some technical difficulties, but you've got me back, so let me start where I 
 
 left off. The U.N. Human Rights Council has passed a resolution forming a fact finding mission investigating Iran's recent human rights violations.   
 
Iran's representative said the resolution is: "Completely biased in nature and substance and does not reflect the facts and realities." Well, the 
 
 U.N.'s Human Rights Chief has warned that Iran has sparked human rights crisis with its repressive tactics. Have a listen.   
 <br>[11:35:05]   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
VOLKER TURK, U.N. HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS:   The unnecessary and disproportionate use of force must come to an end. The old methods and the 
 
 fortress mentality of those who wield power simply don't work. In fact, they only aggravate the situation. We are now in a full-fledged human 
 
 rights crisis.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
ANDERSON:   Well, there's many as 14,000 protesters have been arrested and at least 2,000 have been charged so far. With, at least, six protesters 
 
 receiving death sentences, lawmakers have been calling for protesters to be taught of "good lesson" to deter others who threaten the authority of the 
 
 Iranian government.   
 
My colleague, CNN's Jomana Karadsheh spoke to one protester about the relentless determination to keep going.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)   
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):   Iranians have been risking it all for freedom to break free of the shackles of a repressive 
 
 regime that's brutality and bullets are only fueling the anger of those on the streets, making them more defiant than ever.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   I know as long as the Islamic Republic is ruling the country, I couldn't do my duty.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KARADSHEH (voice over):   This doctor we are not identifying for safety reasons was one of hundreds of medical professionals who gathered in Tehran 
 
 last month for a demonstration organized by their council and it was violently broken up. Doctors tell CNN at least one person was killed and 
 
 many injured, including one shot in the eyes and blinded.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   As soon as I arrived there, the area was full of all kinds of forces. Plain clothes forces was too much. And they literally 
 
 shoot everyone that was walking down the sidewalk of the street. I have bruises, multiple bruises in front of my body and back, and all of them was 
 
 above my waist. But I saw injuries with batons, and they beat a lot, electric shock.   
 
KARADSHEH (on camera):   Just for going out and protesting you can go to jail or get killed?   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   It's not just death. It literally could be worse. We wish they kill us on the street rather than they arrest us.   
 
KARADSHEH:   Because of all the horrors in detention facilities, all these risks, the threats to you and to your family, that's not stopping you and 
 
 others?   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   Of course not. They killed more than 1,500 in three days in less than a week, about two years ago. We know it could happen, and 
 
 all of us will continue. There is no other way. We came from a long journey and we realize that the Islamic Republic cannot change and don't want to 
 
 change. It is our duty to our next generation that we fight it, and hopefully we can change it.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KARADSHEH (voice over):   Only Iranians can change it, as the protesters and others say, but they believe the international community can do more 
 
 than just watch, condemn and announce symbolic sanctions.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:   They could close Islamic Republic ambassadors, United Nations, UNICEF, pay more attention. We need actual action. The most 
 
 important question is, are they willing to do that or not to stand on the right side of history or not?   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
KARADSHEH (voice over):   Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul.   
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)   
 
ANDERSON:   Well, there's no sign the protest movement in Iran is slowing down anytime soon, a movement that has largely been led, as you will be 
 
 well aware now by some extremely brave women and men all over the country. Following the death of Mahsa Amini in police custody over two months ago, 
 
 three words have come to define this movement in time: woman, life, freedom.   
 
The slogan has been chanted all around the world, plastered on posters, on banners and even on pieces of art to show solidarity with the women of 
 
 Iran.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
CROWD:   (Inaudible)--   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
ANDERSON:   Well, this was in London's Piccadilly Circus last month where people gathered to screen the unveiling of a commissioned art exhibit in 
 
 support of Iranian women that further echoes their rallying cry. Well, the plight of women in Iran has been central focus for the artist who is my 
 
 next guest for decades, the iconic and award winning artists, photographer and filmmaker Shirin Neshat and she joins me now live from New York.   
 <br>[11:40:04]   
 
It's fantastic to have you with us today. The United Nations Human Rights Council just passing a resolution today to agree on what is a fact finding 
 
 mission. I have to say before we talk about the kind of wider movement, how do you respond to the way the international community has or perhaps hasn't 
 
 engaged in trying harder to support the women of Iran?   
 
SHIRIN NESHAT, IRANIAN ARTIST, PHOTOGRAPHER, FILMMAKER:   First of all, thank you for having me. I had been watching the events today at the U.N. 
 
 in Geneva and I was really happy to see so many people in support of the Iranian protesters and against the force being used by this fascist 
 
 government.   
 
I think the only way is left is for the western cultures, for the government to stop their diplomatic relationship with Iran and isolate this 
 
 government that is not a legitimate government, it's not representing the people of Iran. And I - really, I think that's the only way to close the 
 
 embassies and make them understand that they are not accepted and there are terrorists government, as far as Iranians are concerned and that's the only 
 
 solution is immediately stopped diplomatic relationship with this.   
 
ANDERSON:   Well, we don't see evidence as of yet that that is going to happen and so it's installations like the one that was displayed in London 
 
 and also in L.A., and congratulations on that, tell me more about it and what you hope it will achieve, these three words: woman, life, freedom?   
 
NESHAT:   We as a nation have been living in a state of fear for years and it's really, I think, the first time I can remember since then, that this 
 
 (inaudible) woman, life, freedom initiated by the woman, and with the help of the young man has given us a sense of hope that this reality of living 
 
 in a nightmare and fear will come to an end.   
 
So every one of us is taking a responsibility to do what we can within our needs, to spread the word to support them. And me as a visual artists, I 
 
 consider myself like a poet, if the images symbolically can define this, this movement, this revolution and can resonate on people who see it and 
 
 there for it.   
 
And so I think every Iranian I know today is doing everything they can within their communities to be a help.   
 
ANDERSON:   I'm sure every Iranian I know here in this region and around the world doing the same thing. The question is what will happen off the 
 
 back of all of this incredible work in motion, the toll that this puts on Iranians around the world, but of course in Iran is enormous at this point.   
 
CNN recently put out an exclusive investigation that exposed a cruel perversion of Iranian authorities, claims to moral guardianship and 
 
 uncovered through witness testimony how security forces in Iran has systematically sexually assaulting and raping protesters. Now, U.S. Special 
 
 Envoy Rob Malley retweeted the report, writing and I quote: "It describes unspeakable acts of sexual violence by Iranian officials in detention 
 
 centers. It's a reminder of what is at stake for the Iranian people and of the lengths to which the regime will go in its futile attempt to silence 
 
 dissent."   
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken recently said that the Iran protests have galvanized the world. But I wonder, as you suggested more needs to be 
 
 done. Do you find the sort of words that Rob Malley used in response to our investigation rather vacuous at the stage, Given that we know there are or 
 
 it is likely there are still channels that will be re-engaged with when it comes to the nuclear talks at some point?   
 
NESHAT:   Absolutely. I think words are empty. And I believe that every possible negotiation with Iran has to stop with this government. Thousands 
 
 and thousands of Iranians all over the world are protesting and asking the international community the same thing, that sanctions are not enough. You 
 
 have to stop negotiating with this regime and understand that they don't represent us.   
 <br>[11:45:05]   
 
And I've read these tweets and I've read some of the comments by Iranian people reacting and almost a hundred percent saying, no, no, no, this is 
 
 not enough. This is - treat Islamic Republic like you treated Russia, isolate them, close their embassy or do whatever you can. This soft words 
 
 are not enough.   
 
Look at what Russia is doing to Ukraine, even this Islamic regime is doing to its own people, there's every proof, every footage you need to see. 
 
 There is nothing else we can show you that are artists or actors or musicians or filmmakers or journalists or political activists, writers are 
 
 all in prison in line to be executed. You see images and video footage showing that this is a violent, dangerous regime. And if this is not enough 
 
 of a human rights violation, I don't know what could be.   
 
So just words of support, of solidarity is not enough, sanctions are not enough. They have to stop negotiating with Iran. They have to stop 
 
 (inaudible)--   
 
ANDERSON:   I have to ask you, do you genuinely believe isolation would actually achieve anything at this point, given what you know about this 
 
 regime?   
 
NESHAT:   The conversation that we're having in - among Iranians is that the government, the current government is becoming very desperate. And 
 
 that's why they did what they did to Kyrgyzstan (ph), for example, where they actually literally brought the army and tanks on the street.   
 
These are all signs that they are feeling the pressure inside and outside. If it wasn't for this millions of protests going on, if it wasn't for all 
 
 the media attention, this would not have been the case for the government's flex so much on the edge. And now the only thing is left to be more violent 
 
 than ever, and so this is the answer is that, yes, I think that it's working, the picture is working and by isolating them, by delegitimizing 
 
 them in the international community, we will have much more opportunity.   
 
And one last thing I wanted to tell you is that (inaudible) Iranian people more united. And that is the greatest hope of us, that we together with the 
 
 international community can dismantle this horrible fascist government.   
 
ANDERSON:   Shirin, it's good to have you on. You've dedicated many of your previous works highlighting the plight of Iranian women, and I know that 
 
 you will go on supporting them. Thank you very much indeed for joining us.   
 
NESHAT:   Thank you for having me.   
 
ANDERSON:   The U.S. is urging Turkey to end its aerial assault of Kurdish forces in northern Syria. Turkey has been targeting what it calls 
 
 terrorists in the region following an explosion in Istanbul that killed six people last week. One of the Kurdish groups says the SDF, and that is a key 
 
 ally in the U.S. fight against ISIS. Turkey, of course is a critical NATO ally.   
 
And so the U.S. State Department warning the Kurdish bombings are destabilizing and they are putting civilians and U.S. personnel in danger.   
 
You're watching CONNECT WORLD. I'm Becky Anderson it is - what time is it? It is quarter to eight local time here in Doha in Qatar back after this 
 
 quick break.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)   
 <br>[11:49:31]   
 
ANDERSON:   The Patagonia region in Chile is home to fjords that once teamed with wildlife, but the eco system there is under threat. Well, they 
 
 on Call to Earth, biologists and Rolex Award Laureate Vreni Haussermann explains what is happening to the area's marine biodiversity and why it is 
 
 so important to reverse course. Have a look at this.   
 <br>[11:49:58]   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)   
 
VRENI HAUSSERMANN, MARINE ZOOLOGIST:   For me Patagonia is the most beautiful part of Chile. It's very remote, very wild and rugged coastline. 
 
 Full of green forests, temperate rain forests, has lots of glaziers, rivers, lakes. And the coast is very steep.   
 
The marine life came from deep waters but also from adjacent area so the diversity we find in fjords is elevated compared to other coastlines.   
 
My name is Vreni Haussermann, I'm a scientist working at the University of San Sebastian and I'm studying the marine biodiversity of the Chile's 
 
 Patagonia.   
 
Diving in Patagonia, we found many species that haven't been described before. The coastline is more than 100,000 kilometers which is twice around 
 
 the world. There are only a handful of scientists working there. So even if we studied all the main areas, there are still most parts that we don't 
 
 know yet.   
 
Chile and Patagonia was free of human impact for a long time, but in the '80s when aquaculture moved in it started to be impacted. Life in the 
 
 shores has been reduced and abandoned. There are species we hardly don't find anymore.   
 
By impacting an area where we know very little about, we always have the risk that we are damaging ecosystems and their equilibrium of the 
 
 ecosystems is lost.   
 
I hope that humanity understands the need to protect the planet. I hope humanity understands the need of protecting the oceans and our lives and 
 
 the lives of all future generations depends on a healthy ocean and a healthy planet.   
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)    
 
ANDERSON:   Let us know what you are doing. To answer the call, with the hashtag call to Earth. Stay with us, we will be right back from Doha in 
 
 Qatar with more on the World Cup for you.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)   
 <br>[11:53:42]   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:   There's a big buzz when the World Cup is going on. The whole world is watching. The surrounding, the atmosphere, all the 
 
 international people gathering in one spot, that for me was amazing. You see people from all over the world.   
 
It was a big, big thing but the biggest achievement in my career I will not (inaudible), because I didn't win it, so if you don't win it, it's 
 
 difficult to see it as an achievement, because you have a strong mentality and for me if you don't win, it's not good enough. So you should not watch 
 
 this World Cup because it will be difficult not to see me in the World Cup.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)   
 
ANDERSON:   That was the lion, the great Zlatan Ibrahimovic with a typically cheeky answer about his experience at the World Cup.   
 <br>[11:55:05]   
 
While we're in Qatar, we'll be bringing you more of those unique insights from players of what is this beautiful game.   
 
And tonight for our parting shots, the power of sport, and the next generation coinciding with the World Cup is the 4th annual Youth Festival 
 
 put on by a group called Generation Amazing. And one of the speakers addressing the kids and luminaries there was U.S. Secretary of State, 
 
 Antony Blinken.   
 
He told the kids that sport is an incredibly powerful way of bringing people together. And when we see so many of the differences and divisions 
 
 in the world, it's just a powerful reminder of what brings us together across geography and across backgrounds, across groups of another."   
 
Well, the head of Foundation Generation Amazing, Nasser Al-Khori, thanked Blinken for the comments on Twitter, highlighting what he calls the 
 
 transformative power of football.   
 
One - Nelson Mandela once said that sport has the power to change the world and it does. Thank you for joining us.   
 
A very Happy Thanksgiving to all of our American viewers around the world, and especially our technical director, Ty Euston (ph) on his last day. Good 
 
 luck, Ty. Enjoy your turkey.   
 
ONE WORLD Zain Asher is up next.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)   
 
END