Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: GOP with Advantage Heading into Midterms; Fed Expected to Raise Interest Rates Again; Source: Pelosi Family to Hear 911 Call, See Body Cam Footage; North Korea Fires 23 Missiles, One Landing Close to South's Waters; Kremlin's Real-Life 'House of Cards' as Influencers Battle. Aired 6-6:30a ET

Aired November 02, 2022 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning, everyone. Don Lemon here, alongside Poppy Harlow and Kaitlan Collins. It is Wednesday morning. We're excited to be here. Thank you for starting your day with us.
 <br>[06:00:23]
 
We have a lot of big news. This is a big day, really, for the economy and President Biden's political fate as the Fed makes a major decision just days away from the midterms. 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Plus, chilling new details about that attack on Nancy Pelosi's husband, including what the suspect told him as he stood over his bedside. We will take you live this morning to San Francisco with those new details. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: And it's being called a real-life "House of Cards" inside the Kremlin. Why Russian mercenaries are fighting for power as Putin's military in Ukraine is faltering. 
 
LEMON: We're going to begin with CNN polls that have just come in, released moments ago, that show Republicans are in a strong position ahead of the next -- of next week's midterm elections, with the economy on the forefront of everyone's minds. 
 
Straight now to CNN's political director, Mr. David Chalian. Good morning, David. So what's the latest? 
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Good morning, Don. 
 
Yes, this is the home stretch assessment of the electorate heading into those midterm elections. 
 
Take a look at this generic congressional ballot. In our brand-new poll, conducted by SSRS, you see the Republican advantage here among likely voters. Fifty-one percent say they're going to vote for the Republican; 47 percent the Democrats. 
 
This 4-percentage-point spread bodes well for Republicans to pick up seats in Congress. And remember, they're only five away from the majority in the House. 
 
Look at this over time. Republicans were at 47 percent, Dems were at 50 just at the beginning of last month. Now Republicans have grown, Democrats have lost some status here. 
 
And break it down by party, obviously Republicans, overwhelming, 96 percent of them, are voting for the Republican candidate. Ninety-eight percent of Democrats voting for tee Democrat.
 
But those crucial independents in the middle, you see advantage Republican there, 48 to 45 percent. 
 
We also took a look at gender and the divide there. Female voters, advantage Democrat, 51 percent to 45 percent, a 6-point advantage among female likely voters for Democrats. 
 
But that gets wiped out by this overwhelming advantage among male voters, male likely voters that Republican have a 17-percentage-point edge, 58 percent to 41 percent. 
 
And when you look at the voters by race, white voters, 62 percent to 36 percent going Republican. Black likely voters, 85 percent to 8 percent Democrat over Republican. 
 
And Latino voters, 66 percent Democrat, 33 percent Republican. I'll just note, this is a 32-percentage-point advantage for Democrats. Four years ago in 2018, the exit polls showed Democrats had a 40-point advantage, so that is getting somewhat diminished there, as well. 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
CHALIAN: If this is how it turns out.
 
COLLINS: That's fascinating.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
LEMON: Momentum is everything. 
 
HARLOW: Fascinating. 
 
LEMON: When you're this close to the election. 
 
HARLOW: That's exactly right, especially for critical group of voters. David, good morning. Thank you for helping us go through all of this. 
 
It was a few weeks ago when President Biden, essentially, said I think it's going to flip again in our direction. You remember that? He's like, we've got a few weeks to go. Well, now we've got, like, five days to go. 
 
Talk to us about the key issues, like what is at the top of everyone's mind and what is not? 
 
CHALIAN: That may have been wishful thinking --
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
CHALIAN: -- on the part of the president. We have days to go here, and we'll see. But these are the -- This is an economy election, guys. Look at this.
 
 Among likely voters, what is the most important issue? Fifty-one percent say the economy and inflation. Nothing else comes close. In fact, the only other thing in double digits is abortion at 15 percent, but that's well below the economy. 
 
And when you look at it by party, these labels are flipped. So Democrats are over here. You see it's much more spread out, right? Abortion actually edges ahead slightly of economy and inflation for Democratic voters. 
 
Among Republican voters, 71 percent of Republican voters say the economy and inflation is No. 1. And we see that that is driving the election. 
 
We talked about the critical independent voters, that group in the middle -- 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
CHALIAN: -- both parties are going for. And you see here, it's overwhelmingly an economy/inflation election. Fifty-three percent of independent likely voters say that is the most important issue. 
 
LEMON: Three percent crime?
 
HARLOW: That's it?
 
LEMON: That's a big issue for Republicans. They are running on that, David. 
 
CHALIAN: They are running in it. Tons of money is being spent. There's no doubt it is central to the conversation in terms of what people are seeing on their airwaves. 
 
But it just doesn't rate when we ask the most important issue. Right? It's not that it's not an important issue, but when we're asking folks to rank them, it doesn't even come close to the economy. 
 
COLLINS: But even -- even abortion is so much lower than the economy and inflation. And that has been a driving message for a lot of Democrats. 
 
And we interviewed Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin yesterday. She's a very vulnerable Democrat. She has been telling Democrats in Washington, our closing message cannot be on abortion. 
 
David, another question, I think, we've seen in questions on early voting is the enthusiasm. Who is more excited to vote? Republicans or Democrats here?
 <br>[06:05:05]
 
CHALIAN: Kaitlan, look at this. First of all, overall, it's an enthusiastic electorate. Not the most we've seen. But 27 percent of likely voters say they are extremely enthusiastic; 20 percent say very enthusiastic.
 
Compare that over time. So right now, 27 percent say extremely enthusiastic. Not as engaged as four years ago, 2018, when the Democrats overtook Congress.
 
But look, well ahead of 2014, a good Republican year, well ahead of October 2020, when only 20 percent said extremely enthusiastic before Republicans won 63 seats that year. 
 
And if you look here, you see the clear Republican advantage. Thirty- eight percent of extremely enthusiastic voters are voting for the Republican. Twenty-four percent of the extremely enthusiastic voters are planning to vote for the Democrat. That spread of 14 points, that mirrors the spread and advantage Republicans had back in 2010. 
 
LEMON: Just because -- Going back to the ranking of the issues, it doesn't mean that there are people aren't going to vote on their individual issues. Some people, crime may be more important to them.
 
And you're right. It's what people are seeing on the airwaves, and that may affect that they vote when they go into the polling place. 
 
But I just wonder with the -- you know, where the president's approval rating is hovering right now. What effect is that having on the polling? 
 
CHALIAN: Yes, Don. The Biden factor. The reality is, he's just upside- down. He's just more unpopular than he's popular.
 
Among likely voters in this poll, Joe Biden's approval rating is now 42 percent. His disapproval rating is 58 percent. 
 
LEMON: Wow.
 
CHALIAN: Just to put that in context for you, and now I'll switch back to registered voters, to compare through history. So among registered voters in this poll, a wider group, Biden's at 41 percent. 
 
Look where he is keeping company. Trump was right there at 39 percent in 2018 when he lost big. And you see Reagan in '82 was at 42 percent when he lost seats. 
 
Even Clinton in 46 percent in 1994 lost more than 50 seats for his party. 
 
So Biden is not in good territory in terms of a president's impact on what his party does in that first midterm election. 
 
LEMON: So you're saying there's still a chance? 
 
COLLINS: Not much. That's why you've seen the -- Biden has --
 
CHALIAN: Always a chance until we count the votes. 
 
LEMON: You got it. I'm just messing with you, David. Go ahead, Kaitlan. Finish. COLLINS: And that's a big factor in where Biden has been these last few days. He is not going to the places that you're seeing former President Obama go to. It's because of the approval rating. 
 
LEMON: And a lot of people are not -- you know, they don't want to be seen with the president, quite frankly. And they don't want to even answer the question about whether they should be running with him, or having him on the campaign trail or if they'll support him, come 2024. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. We will be talking to Josh Shapiro today, who is the Democratic candidate for governor in Pennsylvania. He is going to be appearing with President Biden. We'll see what -- you know, what he has to say about that.
 
LEMON: Yes, yes.
 
Thank you very much. David Chalian, appreciate it. Got his work cut out for him in the next couple of days. 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
LEMON: So --
 
HARLOW: Not much sleep. All right.
 
LEMON: So we're less than a week away, so make sure you join CNN's special election night coverage. It's starting next Tuesday, 4 p.m. Eastern. Of course, right here on CNN.
 
HARLOW: All right. So let's connect the dots this morning, OK? The political fate of Democrats, as David clearly laid out, is tied to the economy. And the Federal Reserve meets today. And it sounds wonky but this matters to each and every one of you a lot on the economy. 
 
They will announce what is expected to be another interest rate hike, its sixth this year, potentially 75 basis points, which is big. It's really big. 
 
M.J. Lee is at the White House. 
 
OK. People look at this, I think their eyes glaze over. Understandably so. Explain why what the Fed does today matters so much. And also, M.J., why you've got some really key Democrats writing a letter to Fed chair Jerome Powell, saying look, how much more pain is this going to inflict? How many more millions of job losses? 
 
M.J. LEE, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Look, Poppy, we are about to see, actually, two things happen in Washington today that really show in such a vivid way this very complicated problem for the president. And the biggest problem for him, as David just showed, and that is, of course, inflation. 
 
We have on the one hand, the Federal Reserve expected to make another historic rate hike. Just shows in such a blaring way that this is such a big problem still for the economy. And then, literally, at around the same time here at the White House,
 
 the president is going to be holding this event, making a speech on the issue of workforce training. 
 
Now, what does that have to do with inflation? Well, officials would argue that, when you're training workers so that they can get into these specialized areas, you are, in part, creating a long-term solution to deal with the labor shortage, which is one of the many problems driving inflation. 
 
So we've almost got this White House counter-programming event to what we're going to see at the Fed. Again, just another reminder that this problem has been so intractable for this president. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. It certainly has. And I think Kaitlan put it so well, that even in these final weeks, even when the polling numbers, M.J., have been showing the economy is primary for folks, a lot of Democrats have kept running on -- you know, kept the same playbook.
 
COLLINS: Maybe to their demise.
 
HARLOW: They haven't shifted. Maybe to their demise. 
 
[06:1002]
 
I mean, 13 percent, abortion is the focus for people; 53 percent, economy. What do you think this all means in the final approach before midterms?
 
LEMON: It is the second most important issue on the list. 
 
HARLOW: It is. It's a good point. It's the second most important issue. Just a big gap. LEMON: Yes.
 
LEE: I mean, really, just think about it this way, guys. We are six days out from election day. And the president is off the trail for one of those days so that he can do this sort of feel-good, look at one of the good things we're doing for the economy events. 
 
You know, one thing I will say is that voters really do hold the president of the United States responsible for the state of the economy. But right now at this moment, the central figure in doing sort of the most aggressive action when it comes to inflation, it's not President Biden. It can't come from Congress. It has to come from the Federal Reserve. 
 
So again, I think it is just one more reminder today, not that the president needs it. He knows this very well. But this remains such a complicated problem for him and that, in so many ways, his hands are tied, because he's so limited in any sort of short-term solutions that he can offer, as much as he wants to try. 
 
LEMON: M.J., don't they understand you're on television at this hour, with the weed whacker?
 
HARLOW: With the lawn work? Kaitlan knows all about that. 
 
LEE: Back to you guys.
 
LEMON: Kaitlan knows.
 
HARLOW: Kaitlan knows all about that.
 
COLLINS: They always do the lawn work early in the morning. If you're on that morning shift, you know there's going to be sprinklers going off, lawn mowers behind you. 
 
LEE: Sorry about that. 
 
LEMON: Not your fault. That's not your fault, I should say.
 
HARLOW: M.J., thank you.
 
And guys, she's right about the president. But Democrats control the House, the Senate, the White House, and even the San Francisco Fed said, look, this stimulus that was pushed into the economy contributed to inflation. So --
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
HARLOW: -- they bear some of it. 
 
COLLINS: It's -- We'll see the results of it when voters make their decisions next Tuesday. 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
COLLINS: All right. So this is some first reporting that was on CNN first. As soon as today, you are going to see House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's family being able to hear the audio of her husband, Paul Pelosi's, 911 call to police; actually get to see the body camera footage of the officers who responded to their home in San Francisco last Friday when that attacker was inside. Authorities tell CNN that the video does show this violent attack. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF WILLIAM SCOTT, SAN FRANCISCO POLICE: What is very clear to me from viewing that body-worn camera is he tried to kill Mr. Pelosi. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON: Whoa.
 
COLLINS: That is putting it, basically, as bluntly as it gets. 
 
CNN's Veronica Miracle, she's live in San Francisco. Veronica, what are we expecting the Pelosi family to really get their hands on today to learn more about just how this attack unfolded? 
 
VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, good morning, Kaitlan. 
 
We understand they're going to be taking a look at that 911 call and the body camera video. 
 
And we understand from the motion to detain, that the attack was caught on body camera video. But beyond that, the district attorney has not elaborated what else they should see on there. 
 
I was in court yesterday when David DePape was arraigned on multiple felony charges. He entered "not guilty" pleas for all of those.
 
And when he came inside, he had a sling on his right arm. And I later learned from the public defender, it's because his shoulder was dislocated during his arrest. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIRACLE (voice-over): New, chilling details from the 911 call House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's husband made when an assailant broke into their San Francisco home. 
 
According to a motion to detain filed Tuesday, just after 2 a.m., the defendant, David DePape, startled Paul Pelosi awake, holding a large hammer in his right hand and several white plastic zip ties in his left. 
 
DePape allegedly asked, "Are you Paul Pelosi," then repeated, "Where's Nancy? Where's Nancy?" 
 
According to the motion, Pelosi, still groggy, responded, "She's not here." 
 
DePape then responded, "OK. I'm going to tie you up." 
 
According to the document, at 2:23 a.m., Pelosi placed the 911 call after allowing the assailant to allow him to go to the bathroom, where his phone was charging. 
 
He spoke to the dispatcher for three minutes and stated words to the effect of, "There is a male in the home and that the male is going to wait for Pelosi's wife." 
 
Pelosi further conveyed that he does not know who the male is. The male said his name is David. 
 
SCOTT: The dispatcher trying to really figure out and decode what was being said on that call. And -- and so she -- she attempted to keep him on the phone in order to do that. 
 
I say again, I think her being able to figure that out, along with Mr. Pelosi's keeping his wits about him, he was heroic. And the dispatcher figuring out that there was something more is also heroic, and I think that action saved his life. 
 
LEE: DePape allegedly told officers and medics on the scene that he did not want to hurt Pelosi but that he escalated things, claiming he was sick of the level of lies coming out of the Washington, D.C. 
 
According to the motion, he said this was a suicide mission: "I'm not going to stand here and do nothing, even if it costs me my life." 
 
DePape appeared in court Tuesday and pleaded not guilty to a slew of state charges. Authorities say DePape spoke at length with law enforcement before retaining an attorney. 
 <br>[06:15:07]
 
His attorney acknowledges the speculation that he was vulnerable to misinformation. 
 
ADAM LIPSON, SAN FRANCISCO DEPUTY PUBLIC DEFENDER: That's certainly something that we're going to look into, that we're going to delve into as his defense team. 
 
MIRACLE (voice-over): According to a source briefed on the attack, U.S. Capitol Police first learned of the break-in about ten minutes after the incident, when an officer noticed police lights and sirens on a live camera feed at the Capitol Police command center in Washington, D.C. 
 
Security for lawmakers now under strict scrutiny.
 
REP. JASON CROW (D-CO): I lived through the January 6th insurrection, I'd like to say that it has been improved since then and people learned our lesson, but unfortunately., that extremism is deepening. It's broadening in America, because we have a mainstream political party that is refusing to push back on it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
MIRACLE (on camara): And two sources have told CNN that the San Francisco Police Department had regularly stopped posting a patrol car sometime last year -- Kaitlan. 
 
COLLINS: Quick work by that dispatcher there. Veronica Miracle, thank you. 
 
LEMON: And now to a quick fact check this morning. GOP Arizona gubernatorial candidate Kari Lake says that she wasn't mocking the attack on Paul Pelosi during a campaign event this week. Watch this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARI LAKE (R), ARIZONA GUBERNATORIAL NOMINEE: I never made light on the attack. I was talking about our children and why they don't have better security at school. 
 
And I said that our politicians have security and that our athletes have security, and we need to have security for our children. 
 
Go back and look at the tape and don't do any creative editing like the fake media tends to do. And you'll see what I was saying. 
 
Go back and look at the video. A lot of creative editing was done, OK? And I think you all know it if you were there. They clipped that -- that clip and made it look bad. And listen, nobody's -- I didn't attack anybody. I want to provide
 
 security for our children at schools. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON: OK. So she said go back and look at the tape. So she claims the video was edited. So let's show you exactly what she said. This is the full clip, the context around it and the crowd's reaction. Here it is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE All right. If elected what are your plans for increasing school safety here? Do you plan to have in your budget to increase school safety and how so? 
 
LAKE: I believe at the last budget -- Lindy (ph), nod if I'm right -- it was about 50 million put into increasing school safety with school -- school resource officers, armed officers to make sure we're protecting our kids. 
 
It is not impossible to protect our kids at school. They act like it is. Nancy Pelosi, well, she's got protection when she's in D.C. Clearly, her house doesn't have a lot of protection. 
 
(CROWD LAUGHTER)
 
LAKE: But if our lawmakers have protection, if our lawmakers can have protection, if our politicians can have protection, if our athletes, then certainly the most important people in our lives, our children, should have protection. 
 
I believe that money is earmarked for district schools, if I'm right. I'd have to look at the piece of legislation. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON: So there's the evidence. There was no editing of this tape. She does make light of the attack. And when the moderator and the crowd laughed, clearly reacting to her remark, she never pushed back. Unlike a former politician from her state in the past. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I can't trust Obama. I have read about him, and he's not -- he's a -- he's an Arab. He is not -- 
 
SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R), FORMER ARIZONA SENATOR AND FORMER PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: No, ma'am. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No? 
 
MCCAIN: No, ma'am. No, ma'am. He's a -- he's a decent family man, citizen, that I just happen to have disagreements with on fundamental issues. And that's what this campaign is all about. He's not. Thank you. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON: And that one wasn't edited either, didn't need to be. And very simply here, facts are facts, and the tape shows what it shows. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. More civility, right, as President Obama called for. 
 
LEMON: More responsibility.
 
HARLOW: A few days ago. More responsibility, more civility and honesty. 
 
All right. This morning, South Korea says the North has fired at least 23 different missiles into waters off the east and west coast of the peninsula, and for the first time, one of them landed close to South Korean waters. 
 
Our Will Ripley joins us live from Seoul. Will, 23. What does this mean? 
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We've never seen a day like this in the history of modern North Korea. Twenty-three missiles in a single day, 29 launch events, missile launch events this year. Unprecedented. More than any other year in North Korean history, any of the three North Korean leaders. 
 
And that in addition to 100 artillery shells, a barrage of artillery fired into those waters off the peninsula, as well. There were even air-raid sirens at a South Korean island off the coast, Poppy. 
 
[06:2003]
 
This is something that North Korea has been signaling for the last couple of days. And, frankly, they're saying that even stronger, more powerful follow-up measures, as they call it, could be coming soon, because they're angry about U.S./South Korea military drills that are happening right now. 
 
So the big question: will there be a nuclear test on the horizon, the seventh underground nuclear test that everybody's been talking about? 
 
HARLOW: I mean, that is the key question, Will. But I think, as you know well, another key question is the response. The fact that South Korea responded in the way that it did, with its own missile launches, just what that tells you about how escalated this is. 
 
RIPLEY: Yes. Well, look, it used to be pretty rare that South Korea would respond militarily, because the previous president, President Moon, was all about making peace. 
 
This new president, President Yoon, is very hawkish when it comes to North Korea. And so with the United States, they have been very quickly responding. 
 
And so they fired three air-to-surface missiles in a precision bombing exercise, and those missiles actually hit close to North Korean territorial waters. So it's really a tit-for-tat escalation here. And this is all on the
 
 heels of the Atomic Energy Agency head warning just last week, Poppy, about this nuclear test coming up.
 
The two defense chiefs from South Korea and the U.S. will be meeting at the Pentagon tomorrow, and they certainly have a lot to talk about. 
 
HARLOW: No question. Will Ripley, thank you for your reporting. Thank you for being there. 
 
All right. Well, a real-life "House of Cards" inside of the Kremlin. This morning, we have new CNN original reporting on the turmoil, the back-stabbing in Vladimir Putin's inner circle. 
 
LEMON: And well, there's no concession yet from Brazil's defeated president. Will Jair Bolsonaro participate in a peaceful transfer of power? That is the question. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:26:02]
 
COLLINS: All right. This morning we are getting a pretty rare glimpse inside the tensions in the Kremlin, with a U.S. official likening it to the show "House of Cards," saying, quote, "It's a real-life 'House of Cards,' but in the Kremlin, all stabbing each other in the back." 
 
This as CNN is also learning that the head of the mercenary group known as Wagner has complained that Russia's top generals are mismanaging their strategy in Ukraine. 
 
Joining us now is CNN reporter Katie Bo Lillis.
 
So tell us what we're hearing here. Because this is pretty remarkable, that the Russian leader is getting this direct of a rebuke from someone, telling him that, basically, they're messing up what's happening in Ukraine. 
 
KATIE BO LILLIS, CNN INTELLIGENCE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Kaitlan. So what U.S. and Western officials believe is going on here is that this long- time ally of Vladimir Putin's, the head of this mercenary group, a man named Prigozhin, is trying to use the kind of chaos and pretty clear mismanagement of Putin's war in Ukraine to try to grow his own influence inside Moscow. 
 
So what our sources tell us is that Prigozhin has gone in to speak to Putin directly, specifically criticizing the Ministry of Defense and its handling of the war, and encouraging Putin to take a more aggressive approach to the conflict. 
 
So as one analyst described it to us, this is Prigozhin trying to raise his own stature by embarrassing the minister of defense, who happens to be another long-time Putin ally, a man named Sergei Shoigu. 
 
So as -- again, as one of our sources described it, this is really a real-life "House of Cards" happening inside the Kremlin. COLLINS: And what does it mean for Shoigu, someone who -- these
 
 Russian defense leaders who are in charge, basically akin to Pentagon chief Lloyd Austin. What does it mean for how secure their jobs are? 
 
LILLIS: That's the big million-dollar question, Kaitlan.
 
What's really interesting, I think, to intelligence officials right now is not just that there's this jockeying happening in between Prigozhin and other Russian officials -- government officials, who are trying to kind of either deflect blame or capitalize on the disaster that's unfolding in Ukraine, it's how is Putin himself responding to the criticisms, particularly of long-time insiders like Shoigu, people whose position had previously been considered relatively safe in the regime. 
 
So they're hoping it's going to provide them a little bit of a window into not just how the power structures of the Kremlin might shake out as a result of this war but also, is Putin himself feeling under pressure to try to escalate the war, take more drastic measures in Ukraine to try to regain some momentum? 
 
COLLINS: And of course, we know that's raised questions among U.S. officials about whether or not, because his military is faltering, he'd resort to the use of nuclear weapons. 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
COLLINS: Katie Bo, really important reporting. Thank you.
 
LEMON: Yes. All of this that's happening may be palace intrigue to some folks, but what's happening because of the Russian war heightens, even, what this means for everyone. 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
LEMON: So let's talk more about what's happening in other places, because it affects what's happening here. What's happening in Russia and also what's happening in Brazil. 
 
So he lost the election but still, not clear whether Brazil's president plans to leave office. Jair Bolsonaro still hasn't conceded or congratulated the winner. And his supporters are causing chaos in the streets, as you see there on your screens right now.
 
So joining us now, the cohosts of NEWSROOM, Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo. And there they join us now. 
 
Thank you. Good morning to you. So what's going on? Why hasn't he conceded? What exactly is he saying? 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Well, it's interesting, isn't it? Because he hasn't conceded it; he hasn't contested it. We do know that during the election campaign, he was casting doubt on the voting system there in Brazil, and he is also saying that his vote -- his supporters have this right to go out and protest. And when we speak to those supporters, or people on the ground do,
 
 they are contesting this. So there are echoes, I think, of what happened in America after the -- you know, after the last election. They are doubting the election system on the ground, and he's not exactly dispelling that fear, is he? 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN NEWSROOM ANCHOR: No, he isn't. I think it's being interpreted as tacit approval of what the protesters are doing. And as what Max was saying, some of the language is so close to what we heard from former president Donald Trump. 
 <br>[06:30:00]