Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: U.S. & South Korea To Extend Joint Military Drills After North Korean Missile Launches; Interview With Rep. Lauren Underwood (D-IL); Kyrie Irving Takes "Responsibility" For Promoting Anti-Semitic Film; Astros Win Game 4 In First Combined No-Hitter In World Series History. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired November 03, 2022 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:30:00]
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: Not up to par.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Whitney Wild, thank you. 
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN HOST: North Korea fires more ballistic missiles today. This is a warning to the U.S. and South Korea to stop the military drills. We've got new reaction from the defense secretary, next. 
 
And NBA star, Kyrie Irving, says he's taking responsibility for the negative impact of his tweet that promoted a documentary that was anti-Semitic. Is that enough? The NBA commissioner is weighing in. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:35:08]
 
GOLODRYGA: Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin just responded to North Korea's ongoing barrage of missile launches and confirms the U.S. and South Korea will extend their largest-ever joint military exercises on the Korean peninsula. 
 
BLACKWELL: CNN's Barbara Starr is at the Pentagon with the latest. 
 
Barbara, North Korea fired three more missiles today. What are you hearing from defense officials? 
 
BARBARA STARR, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Well, Secretary Austin made these comments during a brief press conference actually with his South Korean counterpart who was here for some pre-scheduled talks. So it was quite an opportunity to hear what both men had to say about what North Korea is up to.
 
And, of course, a good deal of concern that one of North Korea's very recent missile launches, in the last 24, 36 hours or so, was an attempt to launch an intercontinental ballistic missile that could potentially, some day, if it worked, reach the United States. 
 
Thankfully, it did not work, of course, in this test launch. 
 
Listen to some very tough words from Lloyd Austin. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEN. LLOYD AUSTIN, DEFENSE SECRETARY: We, in our commitment to defending the ROK, is ironclad. 
 
We strongly condemn the DPRK's irresponsible and reckless activities. As we said before, these kinds of activities are destabilizing to the region potentially. 
 
So we call on them to cease that -- that type of activity and to begin to engage in serious dialogue. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STARR: The South Korean minister went a step further, saying, if North Korea were to launch a nuclear attack, in his words, "it would be the end of the Kim regime."  Of course, referring to Kim Jong-Un in the North. 
 
Now, expect one thing out of this meeting. They have extended those air exercises. And there are hints that there well may be additional U.S. assets rotating into the region for presence hoping North Korea eventually gets the message. 
 
BLACKWELL: All right. Barbara Starr at the Pentagon. Thank you, Barbara. 
 
GOLODRYGA: We want to bring you this, just into CNN. White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre confirmed that U.S. embassy officials met with Brittney Griner in Russia today. The WNBA star detained in a Russian prison on drug smuggling charges since February. 
 
BLACKWELL: The White House says she's "doing as well as can be expected under the circumstances." 
 
In regard to a potential prisoner swap, though, the administration insists this is still a priority. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I can also tell you that, in the subsequent weeks, despite a lack of good-faith negotiations by the Russians, the U.S. government has continued to follow-up on that offer and propose alternative potential ways forward with Russians through all available channels. This continues to be a top priority. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: That was White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre speaking there. 
 
Well, one of the key voting groups that helped Democrats win the White House and the Senate in 2020 may be turning out for Republicans instead this time around. What this means for Democrats' most vulnerable races. That's up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:42:56]
 
GOLODRYGA: A new poll suggests Democrats are in a vulnerable position among a critical group of voters. A new "Wall Street Journal" poll shows there's been a shift among white suburban women. 
 
Republicans are now gaining their support and trust, specifically when it comes to two issues, the economy and inflation. 
 
With me now, a frontline Democrat fighting for those suburban votes, Representative Lauren Underwood, from Illinois. She's running for re- election against Republican challenger, Scott Ryder. 
 
Congresswoman, thank you so much. 
 
You were comfortably running in a reelection. You won that two years ago. There's been redistricting, newly redistricting district. And you are facing a Republican challenger that you, yourself, admit had more name recognition than you do. 
 
You said, "The majority of voters in this district have not seen my name on a ballot before."  
 
How big a disadvantage is that for you? 
 
REP. LAUREN UNDERWOOD (D-IL): The district is 70 percent new, thanks to redistricting. My opponent is very -- someone who's not well known. 
 
We have a brand-new congressional district. And I have really enjoyed the opportunity to crisscross this district and talk with voters to earn her support in this election. 
 
GOLODRYGA: You talk about touting tax credit extensions in the Inflation Reduction Act, and that has been something that has been important for you, lowering the costs for health care for families in your district and in the country.
 
But it's something Republicans point to as one of the biggest causes of inflation in the country. How are you countering that narrative? 
 
UNDERWOOD: We know there's so many families who have been struggling with high costs of goods and services. But in particular, when we think about the recurring costs that families face month after month. 
 
We know that health care costs rank very high on their list. I've heard from so many constituents who struggle to pay their premium, that first health care dollar they spend every month.
 
And then can't afford their prescription drugs or a provider or to get a necessary procedure. So I wrote a bill, called the Health Care Affordability Act, that says
 
 no American would pay more than 8.5 percent of their income for a marketplace plan. 
 <br>[14:44:59]
 
Well, this legislation was signed into law in March of 2021 as part of the American Rescue Plan. And then we got a three-year extension in the Inflation Reduction Act. 
 
This has been so powerful. After these tax credits were expanded and made more generous, 14.5 million Americans signed up for coverage. And four out of five enrollees now find a plan for $10 or less a month. The average family is saving $2,400 per year, thanks to this legislation. 
 
What we're talking about is a bill, the Inflation Reduction Act, that was fully paid for by requiring corporate tax evaders to pay their fair share in federal taxes. 
 
We are able to take that money and offer relief to hard-working American families all across the country, including in my congressional district. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Right. Of course, as you know, health care costs aren't the only costs families are concerned about. Gasoline, at the gas station, at the grocery store, top of mind as well.
 
UNDERWOOD: Sure. 
 
GOLODRYGA: You, yourself, have acknowledged that. And you said, quote, "The inflation piece is certainly a priority but we've seen some important progress."  
 
Where specifically are you seeing progress on inflation? 
 
UNDERWOOD: Well, what we are seeing is we had taken action as Democrats in the Congress to lower costs on health care issues. In the Inflation Reduction Act included a $35 cap on insulin for people who are diabetic and need access to this life-saving drug. 
 
We are helping seniors across the country finally letting Medicare negotiate prescription drug costs and are really responding to these pressing needs that families have been facing for decades now. 
 
So I think that, obviously, this is in the context of inflation around the globe, and the context of record corporation profits and the greed we are seeing from some of the largest corporations in this country.
 
And so we are laser focused on tackling inflation and offering relief to hard-working American families. 
 
GOLODRYGA: You've heard from top Republicans who signaled cutting into popular entitlement programs to lower spending in the country to help bring inflation down, like Social Security. 
 
How are you responding to that? Health care is a big priority to you. A field you worked in before. These are popular programs. 
 
Why isn't this something we've heard more from Democrats in terms of warning voters what Republicans may do? We're just five days away? 
 
UNDERWOOD: I'm a nurse and heard from so many seniors across our community how important these two programs are, Medicare and Social Security, offering health care to our seniors and economic security in retirement.
 
And the fact that we have Republicans actively campaigning on cutting these programs, workers earned throughout their entire careers, paid into these programs, and expressing glee and delight on cutting them. 
 
And causing American seniors to suffer is unacceptable. That's the choice that we have on our ballots right now. 
 
So we've seen incredible enthusiasm as voters head to polls, take advantage to early voting. Here in Illinois, early voting numbers very strong. 
 
And voters have been rejecting this extreme Republican plan to gut Medicare and Social Security. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Why isn't this a message we've heard more from your party, though? It seems to have only been highlighted in the past few weeks? 
 
UNDERWOOD: We've certainly been talking a lot about it as House Democrats. House Democrats are focused on putting people over politics, creating good jobs, lowering costs, helping to keep our communities safe.
 
All the while, extreme Republicans have been focused on taking away reproductive freedoms. They've been focusing on cutting Social Security.
 
And I certainly talk with my community about these issues every day. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Congresswoman Lauren Underwood, thank you for your time. Appreciate it. 
 
UNDERWOOD: Thank you. 
 
BLACKWELL: Up next -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SPORTS ANNOUNCER: Bouncing ball to third. Just in time!  The Astros have a World Series no-hitter!  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[14:49:16]
 
BLACKWELL: The Houston Astros make World Series history. Details, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Brooklyn Nets star, Kyrie Irving, says he's taking responsibility for the negative impact of a tweet promoting an anti- Semitic documentary. Irving says he and the Brooklyn Nets are each donating half a million dollars to an anti-hate group. 
 
BLACKWELL: CNN's Coy Wire is with us now. 
 
Coy, I understand that NBA commissioner, Adam Silver, has something to say about this. 
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yes. Nets Guard Kyrie Irving -- Victor, Bianna, good to see you -- says he didn't mean any harm but didn't directly apologize. 
 
NBA Commissioner Silver called this decision "reckless" in a statement today. 
 
He also said "I'm disappointed that he has not offered an unqualified apology and more specifically denounced the vile and harmful content in the film he chose to publicize. I will be meeting with Kyrie in person in the next week to discuss this situation." 
 
Irving posted a link to film called, "Hebrews to Negros, Wake Up Black America," which features anti-Semitic tropes. 
 
In a statement last night, Irving said he "opposes all forms of hatred and oppression."  He "is aware of the negative impact on the Jewish community."  
 
Irving and the Nets both pledged half a million dollars to the ADL. Irving has not received discipline from the team or from the league. 
 
Controversy, Victor and Bianna, has surrounded him throughout his career, dating back to 2017 when he proclaimed the world is flat, at which time he called himself a conspiracy theorist. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. It's worth noting that Jonathan Greenblatt, the head of the ADL, helped write that statement with him yesterday. Clearly, it wasn't sufficient enough. He'll be meeting with Adam Silver next week. 
 
Switching gears here, on a lighter note, for, at least, you know, Astros fans I guess, it was a history-making night in Philadelphia for game four of the World Series. 
 <br>[14:55:07]
 
Spoiler alert: It didn't go well for the home team thanks to a pitcher nicknamed the Reptile. 
 
WIRE: Yes, Cristian Javier. His teammates call him El Reptile because he's cold blooded, nothing phases him. 
 
He's 25 years old, undrafted from the Dominican Republic. He has worked his way into the history books. He was named the starting pitcher last night for game four. 
 
His parents told him before the game, "God willing, you'll throw a no hitter."  That's exactly what he did. Nine strikeouts, six hitless innings, second longest no-hit in World Series history. 
 
Then the bullpen, they came in. And they must have been listening to some Beyonce before the game, Victor. Brian Abreu, Raphael Monterro, Ryan Presley, the Astros were courting just the second no hitter in the 119-year history of the World Series. 
 
This series is now tied at two. We have Noah Syndergaard on the mound for the Phillies. Justin Verlander starting for the Astros. 
 
Game five is vital, because the winners in the best of seven series in the post season, when it's tied at two, has gone on to win the series more than 70 percent of the time. So this is a being one tonight in Philly. 
 
BLACKWELL: Coy, you know how much I love a Beyonce reference. 
 
Bianna and I have been doing this show for maybe seven or eight days now. Four of those days she has mentioned, what? 
 
GOLODRYGA: That I went to the same high school with Beyonce. 
 
BLACKWELL: Four out of -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
GOLODRYGA: If did, you would be mentioning it, too. So there. 
 
BLACKWELL: Four out of seven days, it's made it into conversation -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Pride and joy. 
 
WIRE: You are a match made in heaven. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
BLACKWELL: Coy Wire, thank you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Thank you. 
 
WIRE: You got it. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Twitter's new boss, Elon Musk, spoke with civil rights groups over the rise of hate speech on the platform following his takeover. We'll speak with someone who was on that call. That's straight ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)