Headline: Anderson Cooper 360 Degrees
Sub-headline: . University Of Idaho Holds Vigil To Honor Four Students Killed In Unsolved Stabbings; January 6 Committee To Discuss Criminal Referrals At Friday Meeting; Police Believe Suspect In Catfish Murders Portrayed Himself As A Teenager; Future Of The Far Right Militia Style Group Post-Jan.6; China's Health Commission To Local Governments: Resolve "Reasonable Demands Of The Masses" In A Timely Manner; Team USA Meets Netherlands At Saturday's Knockout Round; Arrest Warrant Issued For Friend Accused Of Killing NC Woman In Mexico. Aired 8-9p ET

Aired November 30, 2022 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN WORLD SPORT: The team says Pulisic is day to day, but as he greeted his teammates yesterday after the win, it is hard to imagine him missing this moment.
 
CHRISTIAN PULISIC, TEAM USA SOCCER: Knowing a lot of these guys for so long and being able to do it with them, you know about my side is definitely special. And you know, hopefully a moment that we're going to cherish for the rest of our lives.
 
SCHOLES: In Atlanta, Andy Sholes, CNN.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: Thanks for joining us. AC 360 starts now.
 <br>[20:00:28]
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN HOST: Students afraid that a killer could be among them, but not so afraid that they can't turn to one another for support and comfort and to remember lost friends.
 
John Berman here, in for Anderson.
 
A vigil being held tonight at the University of Idaho in memory of the four students who were murdered at an off-campus home more than two weeks ago. Similar gatherings are underway or about to get underway at other colleges across the State and in neighboring Washington.
 
This is happening as we said in the climate of fear, as well as remembrance because the killer still remains at large.
 
CNN's Veronica Miracle is at the vigil for us tonight.
 
Veronica, how is the University of Idaho honoring the victims?
 
VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: John, well, hundreds of students are already inside right now, many people still screaming in as this vigil is just getting underway. They are making sure that as this is the first time that students, community members, and faculty have been able to come together that they can honor those victims and also be here for each other.
 
And as you mentioned, this is the main campus here and this is the main vigil, but there are six other vigils happening across the State of Idaho, and even one in Seattle.
 
We do know that the family members of at least one of the victims is in attendance here tonight and we've spoken with many students all throughout this week and even today about why they wanted to come back despite the fact that there are so many people still afraid. And they say they just want to be here together as they grapple with so many different emotions -- John.
 
BERMAN: Obviously, the killer is still on the loose. No suspects have been named. So, what are police doing to help everyone feel safe? And I mean safe right now at this vigil.
 
MIRACLE: Right. Well, here at this vigil, there is increased security. Like any big event at this stadium, there are metal detectors, and there also a clear bag policy, but in addition to that, they have ramped up security by bringing in officers.
 
That is in addition to the 14 patrol officers from the Idaho State Police that have come to Moscow, just this week. Four of those officers dedicated to the campus. There is also increased security from private security and the Moscow Police Department. So many people here trying to make the students feel safe.
 
But we did speak to one student who said it's actually quite unsettling.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OMAYA SIMLER, UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO FRESHMAN:  It's been really weird, especially because seeing all the cops everywhere and it is the kind of thing where it's like, oh, there was never a cop on that corner before. And I thought it would make me feel safer, but it doesn't because it just reminds me that there is still someone out there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIRACLE: That is certainly on the forefront of everyone's minds, but tonight, they are setting that aside. Many people just here to honor the four victims.
 
Kaylee Goncalves, Madison Mogen, Ethan Chapin, and Xana Kernodle -- John.
 
BERMAN: Alright, Veronica Miracle, thank you so much for being there.
 
We're going to return to this story shortly where we will be joined by CNN chief law enforcement and intelligence analyst, John Miller.
 
Right now, though, two big developments out of Washington. The January 6 Committee hearing from what is expected to be its final witness today and meeting Friday to weigh potential criminal referrals against the former President and maybe others and the House Ways and Means Committee after a marathon legal battle finally has access to six years of Donald Trump's tax returns.
 
CNN's Jessica Schneider joins us now with the latest on both.
 
So Jessica, what more do we know about what will happen with the January 6 Committee this Friday?
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, the time is ticking for the committee, John. They have just weeks left before Republicans take over. We know they are looking to issue their final report that will likely be mid-December.
 
So in the meantime, they still have all these pressing issues that they'll be discussing at this meeting on Friday. So first off, you mentioned it. They will talk about the possibility of making criminal referrals. That's something that members have long said is likely but of course, a recommendation from the committee, it is not something that DOJ actually has to follow.
 
Despite that, this has been a big issue for the committee members have been quite vocal that they believe that Trump and some of his closest allies did commit conspiracy when they tried to prevent the peaceful transfer of power on January 6th, however, members still are split about really whether to make that criminal referral.
 
So that will be a talking point on Friday. Also, the committee has to decide how to handle those five Republicans that include the House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, who refused to comply with subpoenas from the committee over the past several months.
 
So John, a lot of issues still outstanding as this committee nears the end and also, this also comes as Kevin McCarthy sent a letter to the Committee telling them to preserve all records, and he is also vowing to hold his own hearings when he takes charge about security lapses that led to the Capitol breach.
 
So, Republicans aren't going to let this issue go, and instead, will probably rewrite the narrative of January 6th when they do take power -- John.
 <br>[20:05:26]
 
BERMAN: So that's the January 6 Committee. The House Ways and Means Committee now has access to six years of Donald Trump's tax returns. What are they going to do with it?
 
SCHNEIDER: Yes, so they have to decide now that they have access, how exactly they're going to handle the returns. That could actually be a main point in a meeting they're going to have with legal counsel tomorrow.
 
The big thing, though, is it is still unclear if the public will actually get to see the six years of Trump's tax returns. We know that the public and all of us definitely won't get immediate access to them. It is possible they could be released sometime down the road. Of course, that could impact Trump's presidential bid that he has announced for 2024.
 
Trump has already for years repeatedly refused to release his tax returns throughout 2016 and 2020 campaigns even throughout his presidency. We did get a glimpse of information from "The New York Times" back in 2020. They found that Trump paid no Federal income taxes at all beginning in 2000.
 
So we could see potentially in the future, depending on what the House Ways and Means Committee decides to do with these returns what else might be buried in six years of Trump's tax returns, but it's not anything the public is going to see anytime soon, and this Committee has just weeks before they wrap up to really decide how they want to handle them as well -- John.
 
BERMAN: All right, Jessica Schneider, thank you so much for that.
 
We're going to talk about these one at a time starting first with the January 6 Committee and possible criminal referrals. Perspective now from two CNN legal analyst, Elie Hoenig was a Federal prosecutor in New York's Southern District. Elliot Williams served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General during the Obama administration.
 
Elie, first to you. If the January 6 Committee does go down the path of issuing criminal referrals? How much weight does that have with the Justice Department? What does the Justice Department actually care here?
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: Well, John, the legal answer is zero. A criminal referral from Congress or anybody else is simply about political symbolism. Really, it's just a request from Congress saying, hey, DOJ, we'd like you to investigate this. DOJ does not need that in order to do anything.
 
You know how we know that? They are already investigating Donald Trump. Merrick Garland has now made that public and they've not received a referral. And if I'm sitting at DOJ, my position towards Congress when it comes to a referral would be, thanks, but no, thanks. Because the last thing I want is even the public appearance that you have this Committee, which is dominated by Democrats, it's not all Democrats, but you don't want Donald Trump to be able to say, well, this Democratic dominated committee tells DOJ to jump and look what they do, they jump. That'll make it look political. Better for DOJ to have no referral at all.
 
BERMAN: So Elliot, you've got an interesting perspective here because you've worked both on the Hill and at DOJ. So, what's the risk reward that you see for Congress to do for this Committee to recommend a referral?
 
ELLIOT WILLIAMS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Yes, picking up exactly on Elie's point right here, John, there's two different impulses, right? It is -- if you are Congress, you must assert yourself as a coequal and maybe even first among equals branch of government that has the right and even the duty to investigate the executive branch and has the power to frankly, cut off the salaries of the executive branch and make the whole government grind to a halt if they want. That is their right, that is their duty.
 
But to Elie's point, it just doesn't matter. It's not going to drive a prosecution. No one is going to go to jail on account of something that Congress says. This is really about how the branches of government interact with each other. The right thing to do for Congress is to issue criminal referrals here, but at the end of the day, it's not going to move the needle with respect to any prosecutions.
 
BERMAN: So Elie, we just heard from Jessica's report that House Republican leader, Kevin McCarthy, who may very well be Speaker within a few weeks, is going to hold hearings, is bound to hold hearings about security at the Capitol around January 6, and in addition to that, it is demanding that the Committee, the January 6 Committee preserve all records and transcripts. What does that mean? How might that play out?
 
HONIG:         Well, John, this is an example of elections have consequences. Republicans soon will have the power to hold hearings. They issued this order, this instruction to the January 6 Committee to preserve their records. I don't think they need to be told that. Of course, they're going to preserve the records. Of course, they're not going to destroy records.
 
But we should get used to this, because we're going to see Kevin McCarthy, he's already told us try to do a sort of investigate the investigators thing on the January 6 Committee and also let's remember, Kevin McCarthy and Jim Jordan have both told Merrick Garland, they have both made public statements saying Attorney General, clear your calendar and save your documents or something to that effect. Merrick Garland doesn't need to be told that either, but relating to the Mar-a-Lago search.
 
And so now, I think we should get used to seeing the Republican- controlled House. They can't stop or derail a criminal investigation, but they certainly can make life difficult and complicated for Merrick Garland and the Justice Department and I look for them to try to do that.
 <br>[20:10:07]
 
BERMAN: Elliot, how? How in this case, particularly with the January 6 Committee could Republicans once they take control if they wanted, how could they try to rewrite the history?
 
WILLIAMS: Okay, well, so a number of things. One, like I said a little bit earlier, they are Congress and have a tremendous amount of power with respect to oversight, making the Justice Department grind to a halt, constantly putting in oversight requests for letters and documents and testimony, bring people up to testify and slowing things down.
 
Number two, they have a bully pulpit, and at the end of the day, what they can do is create a new narrative. Now, look, the current January 6 Committee by being first and by issuing the report that they will issue in all likelihood, by the end of this month will cease the public discussion for quite some time, and if they are good at it, can shift the public discussion on this.
 
But look, the Republicans will have their chance over the course of next year and a lot of power and a lot of microphones and certainly a lot of followers who believe their side of the story as well. So, you know, there's right and there's wrong and then there is who's got the microphone, and you know, come January 3rd, another group of folks does that back.
 
BERMAN: My favorite law firm, Honig, Williams, and Berman, thank you so much for the conference tonight, gentlemen. I appreciate it.
 
HONIG:         A high-end firm, John.
 
BERMAN: Yes.
 
All right, now to the second piece of business that Jessica reported on, Trump's tax returns and what House Democrats could learn from them in the remaining weeks that they control the chamber.
 
With us now is investigative reporter and Trump biographer, David Cay Johnston, author of "The Big Cheat: How Donald Trump Fleeced America and Enriched Himself and his Family."
 
So David, the House Ways and Means Committee, they don't have much time to investigate the former President's taxes if they want to. Democrats only control this Committee for another month or so. So, what are the most immediate questions that could be answered by these documents?
 
DAVID CAY JOHNSTON, INVESTIGATIVE REPORTER: Well, they could tell us definitively whether Donald on his tax returns manipulated the value of assets he was depreciating. When you own an asset like a building, you get to write off part of the cost of it each year, and it saves you tax dollars.
 
And we know from "The New York Times" investigation four years ago that Trump manipulated values all over the place to deal with loans and insurance documents. So, that would be one of the first things to look for. And second, to look for numbers that don't match up.
 
You claim to have X amount of money in the bank in that particular account at the end of an entity, and Donald has 500 entities, and the amount of money you have the next year doesn't match up. It should be exactly the close out at the start of the next year, but they don't have much time to look at that if that's what they want to do.
 
BERMAN: So the tax returns in question are primarily from the period when Donald Trump was President, when he was in the White House. So how do you think that affects the investigation?
 
JOHNSTON: Well, I'd be much more interested, John, in seeing the tax returns before he became President, because there is testimony in the ongoing New York City trial on tax cheating by the Trump Organization that they cleaned up their behavior once Donald Trump arrived in the White House.
 
But the issue the Committee was concerned about was Donald Trump's repeated claims that he was persecuted by the IRS because he is a Christian. Never mind that he has called in a book Christian schools as schmucks and idiots and has declared repeatedly his life's philosophy is revenge, which is inherently anti-Christian.
 
That was the issue: Was the President of the United States and a presidential candidates being treated properly by the IRS? That's an issue I can imagine Democrats might have -- the Republicans might want to get into depending on how facts turn out in the future, not likely but possible, since they're always trying to beat up the IRS.
 
BERMAN: So the Chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, Richard Neal declined to say whether they would release any of these returns publicly. Do you think any of these will see the light of day?
 
JOHNSTON: Well, I hope so, first and foremost. Richard Neal is very concerned about a section of the Tax Code that makes tax returns confidential. They used to be public record. A hundred years ago, they were public, but they're not now.
 
There are procedures by which the Committee can put the tax returns into the public record. He is having a meeting with his Caucus on the Committee, and I think one of the things they are certain to discuss is, is there a way for them to put this into the Congressional Record, so that it's always there and people on the outside can basically crowdsource an audit?
 
BERMAN: Look, the former President's legal team has fought for years so has the former President to keep these secret. You've reported on him extensively. Why do you think he works so hard to keep these from going public?
 <br>[20:15:01]
 
JOHNSTON: Because Donald is a tax cheat. I mean, I've established in the public record previously he cheated on sales taxes, he cheated on payroll taxes. He actually even cheated, novice roulette players at one of his casinos, and "The New York Times" investigation, they said was inspired by my reporting four years ago showed very, very calculated income tax cheating by the Trump family.
 
It also involved gift tax and estate tax cheating. That's who Trump is. He has done this his whole life. He has cheated in investors and workers and as I said, even some gamblers so of course the tax returns, they are fully audited are going to show that he cheated on his income taxes.
 
BERMAN: David Cay Johnston, thank you for your insight.
 
JOHNSTON: Thank you, John.
 
BERMAN: Next more on the Idaho killings specifically the investigation and what authorities are now saying about it and the investigative work we are not seeing. CNN's John Miller joins us. And later, a live report from one of the many cities across China tonight where protesters fed up with COVID lockdowns have been taking to the streets and where there is one sign the government could be bending on these restrictions.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:20:14]
 
BERMAN: We're looking live at the vigil tonight, one of several across Idaho and Washington State for the four University of Idaho students murdered on the 13th. Security is said to be tight because the killer or killers remain at large and details on the investigation remain hard to come by.
 
With us now is CNN chief law enforcement and intelligence analyst, John Miller. He is a former NYPD Deputy Commissioner of Intelligence and Counterterrorism.
 
John, where do you think the investigation stands tonight? And if there is a breakthrough, will it be because of forensics, something paid off there or because maybe a witness comes forward?
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: So it could be either. We are at that stage now where we're past the 10-day mark. You know, we're going into the third week where lab results are coming back. So now, you know, really for the first time beyond what was visually available and what the profilers could interpret from what they saw at the crime scene, the crime scene speaking in terms of chemistry.
 
So that means DNA results are taken from -- you've got your four victims, you have your two survivors, and then you have people who are known to be in the apartment, including those who discovered them that day.
 
So all of that DNA is known samples, what they're looking for is the unknown sample and what they're looking to do is to collect those unknown samples, run them through the systems that are national to see does that hit on someone with a violent felony record that is being kept? At the same time they're running the crime scene through those computers at VICAP, the Violent Criminal Apprehension Program and saying, is there a crime that is similar enough, and MO, that it needs to be compared for one of these unknown offenders?
 
BERMAN: How likely is it that they will be able to identify the DNA of the perpetrator or perpetrators? And if they do, is that the type of thing that they would hold close to the vest?
 
MILLER: Yes. So likely, first, if the person's DNA is on file and the contribution is large enough, which it should be, that would happen with a great deal of certainty, and could happen now. If the unknown contributor is isolated as an unknown contributor, but they're not on file, because they haven't been convicted or they didn't give a DNA sample when they were arrested, they'll have to figure that out another way, which means they go to all the rest of the leads. Remember, they painted that box, and they said, we want every piece of video from here. They're looking for cars. They're looking for license plates, and frankly, they have people that they looked at and put aside, new people they're looking at.
 
When you don't have a main suspect, everybody is a suspect.
 
BERMAN: So if there is no useful DNA of an alleged perpetrator there, what does it say about the person who pulled this off? Maybe that they are so careful, they know what they're doing to not leave traces behind?
 
MILLER: It could be. I mean, whoever went there according to the offender characteristics that the crime scene tells us came there on a mission and their mission was murder, they were going to kill at least one person, probably everybody that was in their plan. That is why they brought that particular knife, which was a significant fixed blade weapon.
 
It's probably why they took that knife with them. It's probably something they've used before. Something they like, that could include gloves. But we've seen many cases where in frenzy stabbings, you know, the person has slipped down the handle, cut their own hand and become an inadvertent DNA contributor. So, what they're hoping for is a mistake on the perpetrator's end that becomes a break on theirs.
 
BERMAN: John Miller, great to see you tonight. Thank you so much.
 
MILLER: You, too.
 
BERMAN: New developments as well in the so-called "catfishing" murders in Southern California. The mother and grandparents of a teenage girl were found dead on Friday. The suspect was killed in a shootout. Now, family members are speaking out with a warning about online dangers.
 
More now from CNN's Josh Campbell.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHELLE BLANDIN, WIREK FAMILY MEMBER: This horrific event started with an inappropriate online romance between a predator and a child.
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The child, a 15-year-old girl is still in protective custody undergoing trauma counseling and receiving extensive medical care after a law enforcement officer allegedly brutally killed her mother and grandparents.
 
DISPATCH: We have possible murder victims, multiple victims.
 
CAMPBELL (voice over):   Then set the family's Riverside, California home on fire and took off with her, driving for two hours until a pursuit ended with her fleeing the car and the suspect shot and killed by law enforcement.
 
The suspect, 28-year-old Austin Lee Edwards was hired in Virginia by the Washington County Sheriff's Department just days before the murders according to law enforcement, and was a former Virginia State Trooper.
 
CHIEF LARRY GONZALEZ, RIVERSIDE POLICE: We ask the same questions you all ask, how did this person get past a background investigation? How did this person get past the polygraph investigation?
 
CAMPBELL (voice over):   Police say Edwards developed an online relationship with a teen on social media, posing as a teenage boy, texting her from Virginia.
 <br>[20:25:09]
 
BLANDIN: This was an adult that traveled across the country to kidnap a 15-year-old girl with the idea to kidnap her and killing and devastate our family.
 
CAMPBELL (voice over):   Police unsure if she was kidnapped or coerced.
 
RYAN J. RAILSBACK, PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER, RIVERSIDE POLICE: We don't know if this was the first physical encounter they had. It's very possible it was, but we also don't know yet if he -- if she knew that he was coming to California.
 
CAMPBELL (voice over):   This was a case of catfishing and much more according to police, where the suspect impersonated another individual for the purpose of exploitation.
 
GONZALEZ: This type of victimization takes place across every platform -- social media, messaging apps, gaming platforms, et cetera.
 
CAMPBELL: Police and the victim's families are urging parents to talk to their children and to monitor them.
 
BLANDIN: Please, please know your child's online activity. Ask questions about what they are doing and whom they are talking to.
 
DET. ROB OLSEN, RIVERSIDE POLICE:  I work directly with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. And in 2021, they received over 22 million reports from service providers and the community for exactly this sort of thing.
 
CAMPBELL (on camera):    And what is your message to parents out there? What guidance do you give them to try to make perhaps, you know, prevent something like this?
 
OLSEN:         Pay attention. I think you'd be astonished to know how many parents just aren't paying attention to their child's online activities.
 
CAMPBELL: Now authorities tell us that this investigation continues particularly on the digital front. They are pouring over a trove of online evidence that they are hoping will help them answer the question about the nature of this relationship between this suspect in this 15-year-old minor. They're also telling us that they want to see if there are other potential victims out there that may have been targeted by this former cop.
 
Josh Campbell, CNN, Riverside, California.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERMAN: Our thanks to Josh for that.
 
And today, Attorney General Merrick Garland also addressed the first seditious conspiracy convictions in connection with the January 6th attack on the Capitol. Hear that, plus a look at where the Oath Keepers as a group stand today with its founder and other leaders likely going to prison for a very long time, next.
 
And later, incredible images still coming in from China as people there continue to push back against the state.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:31:33]
 
BERMAN: On the heels of yesterday's rare seditious conspiracy convictions, Attorney General Merrick Garland held a press conference today entitled The Work of Justice Department Investigators and Prosecutors.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MERRICK GARLAND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: As the verdict of this case makes clear, the department will work tirelessly to hold accountable those responsible for crimes related to the attack on our democracy, on January 6, 2021.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN: Five leaders of the Oath Keepers were found guilty of crimes related to the Capitol attack. Two of them, including founder Stewart Rhodes were convicted of the most serious charge yet in connection with the insurrection, seditious conspiracy conspiring to oppose by force, the peaceful transfer of presidential power. Now despite all this, the Oath Keepers as a group still exists.
 
CNN's Sara Sidner joins us with more. So, Sara, what is next for the group here?
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I mean, that is the big question with the leader convicted of seditious conspiracy and the name of the group obviously, not one that you necessarily want to share with anyone but there are still members across this country of the Oath Keepers. And the question is, what's their next move?
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SIDNER (voice-over): The Oath Keepers, the name that comes from the Oath of Service taken by the military and law enforcement, and the message is a call to keep that oath whether or not you have ever served in either capacity. The extremist group was founded by Stewart Rhodes a disbarred Yale Law graduate and former Army paratrooper.
 
STEWART RHODES, FOUNDER, OATH KEEPERS: There is going to be combat here on U.S. soil no matter what (INAUDIBLE). It's coming.
 
SIDNER (voice-over): It began in 2009.
 
BARACK OBAMA (D) FMR PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: Hello, Chicago.
 
SIDNER (voice-over): The after President Barack Obama took office. Rhodes ran the anti-government militia group jetting themselves up on their fears the federal government would take away the right to bear arms.
 
They made themselves visible at large scale protests like this one against police brutality in Ferguson, Missouri.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm here with Oath Keepers.
 
SIDNER (voice-over): That at times turned violent. The Oath Keepers highly visible and armed to the teeth said they were there to protect businesses.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We had patrol over here and city officers and they said, just please don't walk through us, please stay on the sidewalk area.
 
SIDNER (voice-over): They were also known for the defense of ranchers trying to take over federal land in Oregon.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is the duty of the people to put that government back in its place.
 
SIDNER (voice-over): The Oath Keepers came to their defense armed and ready to take on the government. They were also there on January 6, unmistakable because they're wearing military combat gear and walking in a stack up the steps of the Capitol. Many of them went inside.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're trying -- 
 
SIDNER (voice-over): After the January 6 attack where Oath Keepers were out on force, Rhodes spoke to Infowars via phone from jail, alluding to being a murderer for a cause.
 
RHODES: When you have a dictatorship, you're going to have dissidents. And if you're going to have anybody standing up for freedom, some of you are going to go to jail. And some of you are going to go to prison. Just like Nelson Mandela was willing to go to jail for life, he did 20 years, you'd have to be willing to do that. Be willing to take the hit.
 
SIDNER (voice-over): Now after Rhodes and another high-level Oath Keeper have been convicted of seditious conspiracy and other charges for their roles in the insurrection, there are questions about the group's future. The Southern Poverty Law Center and the Anti- Defamation League who follow extremist groups in America say the Oath Keepers at its height had up to 40,000 people on its roles.
 <br>[20:35:01]
 
(on-camera): As this case greatly weakened this group known as the Oath Keepers.
 
RACHEL CARROLL RIVAS, SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER: Yes, absolutely. But with Oath Keepers, particularly, we are seeing an organization in disarray. We are seeing an organization that has been, you know, nearly decimated on the organizational level.
 
SIDNER (voice-over): But make no mistake, the extremist threat in the United States remains.
 
RIVAS: However, those ideas that were perpetrated by this organization with tens of thousands of people within their membership rolls, you know, hundreds of chapters across the country at some points, those ideas, don't just go away with the snap of the finger, even if the structure of the organization is really, you know, fallen apart.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERMAN: So, Sara, you just spoke with Stewart Rhodes' lawyers, what did they have to say to you?
 
SIDNER: Yes, James Lee Bright. You know, he talked about some of the things that happened in trial and said that he did believe this was a fair trial. That is an important point being that this was watched by a lot of people who are still believe, they deny that the election was won by Joe Biden. There are people in there that believe the January 6 people who are accused in cases are all being railroaded. And so, they made a very clear statement about that. They thought the judge did a very good job, but they are going to appeal. The appeal will be something along the lines of some of the evidence that they wanted to come in that wasn't allowed in, some of the evidence they didn't want to come in. That was allowed and they are going to be putting forward that appeal sometime soon in this case.
 
So serious fight in court may happen again when it comes to this. But the convictions are there for all of the members of the Oath Keepers. And the one associate that was on trial, these five people, they were convicted of several things and acquitted of several other things. But all of them face up to 20 years in federal prison for the charges that they were convicted of, John.
 
BERMAN: Sara Sidner, thank you as always for your work on this.
 
Ahead, developments tonight in China where protesters have been clashing with state police. The country is now easing some COVID restrictions in some cities. That's what demonstrators have been fighting for. But a lot of questions about whether it will stick. We have a report from Beijing, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) [20:41:11]
 
BERMAN: So, people in China rarely rise up but they are in a big way now all across the country to demonstrate against extremely strict COVID lockdowns. You can see protesters in the southern manufacturing hub in pub of Guangzhou clashing with riot police. The city has now fully lifted lockdowns in four districts in scrapped district wide mass testing. Shanghai's health authorities also announced that that city will lift lockdown measures across 11 districts starting tomorrow, which is today there. China's National Health Commission is calling on local governments to quote, resolve the reasonable demands of the masses in a timely manner. Whether that's a real directive we don't know.
 
CNN's Selina Wang has more from Beijing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Anger boils over into violent protests at the world's largest iPhone factory. Worker stream out of Foxconn factory dorms in central China. Protesting unfair treatment, dirty living conditions and chaotic COVID rules at the Apple supplier. Videos obtained by CNN show a group of police in white hazmat suits beating workers with batons and metal rods. The police are hitting people. A worker shouts in the video. A Foxconn employee at the protest told CNN, the scene turned into a river of blood. Police hit the workers ruthlessly.
 
(FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
WANG (voice-over): Earlier squadrons of riot police had rolled in. They're going to start beating us, protesters yelled in fear, basing off rules of law enforcement with riot gear. The protests escalated into the evening, workers tearing down COVID barriers using metal beams against police. Masses of them hurling metal parts towards law enforcement. Even using a COVID barrier as a shield against rows of authorities. They work together to push over a police car cheering and chanting.
 
Since October the Foxconn plant has been sealed off from the outside world after a COVID outbreak that forced employees to live and work on site. And what videos obtained by CNN show are filthy conditions. Garbage piling up in the hallway. The factory plunged into chaos. Videos showed worker scrambling fighting to get enough food and supplies. Then came the Exodus (ph). Masses of workers walked miles along highways to escape the plant. Analysts estimate this factory produces more than half of Apple's iPhones. Apple already warned customers they'll need to wait even longer to get their new products because of China's COVID lockdowns.
 
So, to attract workers, Foxconn promised higher pay and bonuses. New workers signed up. But when they got to the factory, the pay package was worse than what Foxconn advertised. A Foxconn employee said workers felt cheated leading to thousands of people protesting. Foxconn later blamed the payment discrepancy on a quote, technical error and sent text messages to workers offering to pay them $1,400 to quit and go.
 
Soon after, video showed long lines of workers boarding buses to leave the factory. Their departure, possibly putting an end to another violent and dramatic scene. But increasing the pressure on Apple it's just the latest victim of China's zero COVID policy.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERMAN: Wow. What images there. And Selina Wang joins us now. Selina obviously we're seeing scenes like this across all of China. What's the latest?
 <br>[20:45:00]
 
WANG: Well On the sweeping crackdown to smother any further major demonstrations. It appears to be working but authorities they are on high alert. On Wednesday, state media announced the death of former communist leader and President Jiang Zemin. And there is a chance this could become a new rallying point, because China has a history of people taking to the streets to mourn the deaths of previous leaders. While using that opportunity to let out their anger about the current government. And on Chinese social media, we've seen an outpouring of people grieving and reminiscing about an old era when China was freer and more open to the world.
 
Now Jiang Zemin did consolidate power, he did oversee a ruthless crackdown on the following Gong movements, but he's seen as someone who embraced globalization under his leadership, China joined the WTO, won the bid to host the 2008 Olympics. Some scholars putting it this way that he was one of the few Chinese leaders who wanted to become a normal world leader, not a communist dictator. And John, he even did interviews with American media including CNN and was known for a colorful personality. He'd recite the Gettysburg address in English and sing Italian opera in front of foreign dignitaries. Now, Xi Jinping, a very different kind of leader, John.
 
BERMAN: Very. All right, Selina Wang, thank you so much for that.
 
Shifting gears now after the epic win against Iran, huge anticipation for the next U.S. Men's National Team World Cup game, a faceoff with a powerhouse Netherlands on Saturday. This time it is the knockout round and the player who put us there is Christian Pulisic who scored the only goal of the game, but that goal, left him with an injury that knocked him out at halftime and sent him to the hospital. So pretty much the whole country is wondering how he's doing and if he'll play this weekend.
 
CNN's Don Riddell joins us now from Doha. So, Don, it's like the pelvic contusion felt around the world or at least America. So, help us, give us some updates on said pelvic contusion how's he doing? And will he play on Saturday?
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN HOST, WORLD SPORT: Well, look, we don't know for sure, John, but the mood music seems to be that maybe he will hopefully we will. Certainly, the team wants him to play, certainly the country wants him to play. I mean, this guy has all of a sudden, we've been talking about him for a long time, but he's now putting in these talismanic performances. :He only played half a game against Iran. And he still won the Man of the Match award. Of course, it was his goal that was absolutely crucial. He's not even the captain of the team, but they call him Captain America. And when the coach spoke to CNN, earlier on, he kind of gave an indication that he was probably going to be OK.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GREGG BERHALTER, HEAD COACH, U.S. MEN'S NATIONAL SOCCER TEAM: He seems to be doing good. Just spoke with him a couple minutes ago. And we're going to we can do on the training field tomorrow and hopefully he'll be it'll be ready for the game against Netherlands. But in terms of his contribution to the group, you know, I've said all along when one of your most talented players is also one of your hardest workers and you know, you're in a good spot.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIDDELL: You know, the fans have known how important Pulisic has been to the team. I've got many friends in the states who are big soccer, friends who are big soccer fans, and every time I see them, it's like, Pulisic, is he going to be OK. He's not getting enough minutes for Chelsea like, you know, he needs to be ready. He needs to be game ready for the World Cup. And this is why they knew it. They knew how important he was going to be and here we are.
 
BERMAN: Yes, look at there a couple coaches in the Premier League. I hope we're watching this World Cup. Let's talk about Saturday here, the U.S. are underdogs against the Netherlands, you know, a perennial powerhouse in soccer. So how is the U.S. team feeling about their chances in this must win game?
 
RIDDELL: Yes, I would think they will be feeling pretty good. I mean, there's no doubt about it. The Dutch are the favorites, the world number eight, they're one of the best teams never to win the World Cup, they've played in several finals and arguably have been unlucky enough to lose all of them. But you know, knockout football, anything can happen the way the United States have been playing, the way they've been organizing, they're not conceding goals. I think they've got a really, really good chance. And if we look to a bit of history, the last time they played 2015 friendly in Amsterdam, the United States came from three one down with two late goals to win for three. And if Pulisic is on the field, I know he'll remember this. When Chelsea his clubside played Liverpool in the Premier League just eight months ago, Pulisic scored a goal, he got the better of the Liverpool defender Virgil Van Dyck, he's one of the best defenders in the world, he plays for the Netherlands. Van Dyck was accused of being lazy in that move. So that really, really will have haunted Van Dyck and Pulisic knows that he can get the better of him.
 
So, I think the Americans will be feeling pretty good about this. If they can get past the Netherlands though it doesn't get any easier. It's probably Messi and Argentina after that. But you know, one game at a time, John, right?
 
BERMAN: One game at a time. We'll take anyone on. Don Rendell, thanks so much for being with us. Appreciate it.
 
Next, we're going to remember a legend in music Christine McVie, longtime member of one of the most successful and influential bands in rock history Fleetwood Mac died today. Will remember her and the music she created, when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:54:10]
 
BERMAN: The parents of a 25-year-old North Carolina college student are pushing for answers after their daughter was killed on a trip to Mexico was six of her friends. More than a month after the mysterious death Mexican authorities have issued an arrest warrant for one of those friends. And there's one video from that vacation that's getting attention and raising a lot of questions.
 
With more, here's "360's" Randi Kaye.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It was the perfect warm weather getaway until something terrible happened and 25- year-old Shanquella Robinson wound up dead in Mexico.
 
BERNARD ROBINSON, FATHER OF SHANQUELLA ROBINSON: I just sit back and wait don't go because like I say she going to get justice.
 
KAYE (voice-over): On October 28th, Shanquella traveled from her home in North Carolina to Mexico with six friends. They booked a villa in Cabo. These are images taken from a disturbing video circulating online. Her father confirms to CNN, the video shows Shanquella being thrown onto the floor and beaten on the head. It's unclear when the video was taken or if it depicts the moment she suffered the fatal injury.
 <br>[20:55:08]
 
According to a copy of the death certificate obtained by CNN affiliate WSOC, Shanquella's cause of death was severe spinal cord injury and Atlas luxation, which is instability or excessive movement in the uppermost neck vertebrae. The death certificate also notes that just about 15 minutes passed between the time she was injured and her death.
 
SALLAMONDRA ROBINSON, MOTHER OF SHANQUELLA ROBINSON: We just waiting for someone to be arrested.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Originally the people Shanquella was traveling with who her parents say we're all friends from college, told her parents Shanquella died from alcohol poisoning.
 
B. ROBINSON: Some is not and not right here.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Not adding up because prosecutors in Mexico say evidence shows the death resulted from a direct attack, not an accident and involved when of Shanquella's female friends. The suspect has not been named, and no one has been charged. But Mexican authorities confirm an arrest warrant has been issued for the crime of femicide, the killing of a woman because of her gender.
 
KDAJAH VINSON, CHILDHOOD FRIEND OF SHANQUELLA ROBINSON: If you know (INAUDIBLE). So, she can get justice. I'm not worried about that. I'm more so disappointed that she was around people that she thought were her friends.
 
KAYE (voice-over): The FBI is investigating and Mexican prosecutors are looking to extradite the suspect once they locate her. Shanquella's mother had spoken with her daughter the day before she died and said she sounded happy.
 
S. ROBINSON: She was laughing and talking and say, a chef was getting ready to cook them some tacos. And I say well, OK, enjoy yourself. I love you. I was -- talk to you tomorrow, and I never spoke with her again.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Shanquella was a student at Winston Salem State University in North Carolina. Her father says she loved gymnastics, and also had her own hair braiding business. Her parents say she had a heart of gold and never mistreated anybody.
 
Hundreds turned out to pay their respects at Shanquella's funeral. Her parents are vowing to be her voice and fight for justice as they try to move forward without what her father calls his only jewel.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERMAN: And Randi Kaye joins us now. Randi, I understand you spoke with Shanquella's father late this evening. What did he tell you?
 
KAYE: Yes, I spoke with him John. And it was a very emotional conversation. There were a lot of tears. I actually called him just to ask if he had received any word about arrests and he said he had not. But he did say that this last month or so has really just been torture for him. This was their only child, his only jewel as he liked to say so this is very, very difficult. He did tell me they are working on another autopsy on his daughter. They want to know if there was anything in her system. They also want to know more about how she died. He also said that they since that initial meeting when those other friends came back from Mexico, he has not heard from them or their families. There were no condolences offered. They weren't at the funeral, which also really bothered him.
 
So, he really just wants answers. He says he raised his daughter right, they always said I love you at every conversation when they were on the telephone with each other. He wants answers. He wants to know what happened to her and still no motive, John, at all they police authorities are not saying anything about a possible motive and he wants to know why his daughter was killed on a vacation in Mexico with friends. John.
 
BERMAN: Understandable. Keep us posted. Randi Kaye, thank you so much. Still to come tonight, less than a week to the Senate run off in Georgia, long early voting lines record turnout. Also, a CNN report that raises a new question about Republican candidate Herschel Walker, does he actually live in Georgia? Walker in his own words, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)