Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Georgia Senate Runoff; Protests Erupt Across China; University Of Idaho Murders; Russia's War on Ukraine; Iran's Brutal Crackdown. Aired 5-6a ET

Aired November 27, 2022 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. 
 
Ahead on CNN NEWSROOM, some 55 million people are traveling on this holiday weekend. The weather's causing a snarl. We're live with the latest. 
 
Plus -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HERSCHEL WALKER (R), GEORGIA U.S. SENATORIAL CANDIDATE: The reason I'm here and you're going to vote for me is I'm going to be your champion. 
 
SEN. RAPHAEL WARNOCK (D-GA): It's time to show up and vote. 
 
BRUNHUBER (voice-over): Tens of thousands of people are taking advantage of early voting in the crucial U.S. Senate runoff in Georgia. We'll look at the messaging this time around. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: And soccer superstar Lionel Messi keeps Argentina's World Cup hopes alive. We'll bring you the latest on the Qatar World Cup. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over): Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Kim Brunhuber. 
 
BRUNHUBER: We're following two big stories as they unfold this holiday weekend here in the U.S. Let's start with major travel headaches for millions of Americans. 
 
People traveling home from their Thanksgiving holiday destinations face widespread snow and rain that could cause delays across multiple areas of the country. On Saturday alone, more than 2,000 commercial flights were delayed due to adverse weather, according to FlightAware. More flight cancellations may be cancelled in the coming hours. And in the world of politics voting is underway in parts of Georgia
 
 with the closely watched U.S. Senate runoff. Stakes are high. We'll explain why it took a state supreme court's ruling for this to happen. 
 
(WEATHER REPORT)
 
BRUNHUBER: Early voting in the U.S. Senate runoff battle is now underway here in some Georgia counties. 
 <br>[05:05:00]
 
BRUNHUBER: Democratic incumbent Raphael Warnock faces Republican Herschel Walker. Saturday voting was allowed in nearly 2 dozen counties. Many Georgians took advantage of it. CNN's Eva McKend reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Despite the long lines, a steady stream of Georgians coming out on Saturday. This voting access is galvanizing for Democratic voters. 
 
One woman telling us she left the site and came back because it was so important for her because the Democrats fought hard for this. This Saturday access also important for college students, this perhaps their only shot. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I thought it was my responsibility that, while I was home for break, I should vote and make sure my voice is heard. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I go to Boston College, so this is the only time I'm in Georgia and able to vote. I've had a lot going on in the last couple of days being back from college. So this is really the only time I had available to vote. I leave tomorrow, so I'm really happy I was able to get it in. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKEND: By law, all counties will have to offer early voting starting on Monday. But of course, if Georgians don't have the opportunity to get out and vote early, they can vote on December 6th -- Eva McKend, CNN, Atlanta. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: And for more on this, let's bring in Rahul Bali, a news and political reporter for WABE, a public broadcasting radio station based here in Atlanta. 
 
Thanks so much for being with us. 
 
How does the fact that having control of the Senate has affected the dynamics and the messaging of this runoff? RAHUL BALI, WABE PUBLIC RADIO CORRESPONDENT: It may have taken a little bit of the spotlight off the state of Georgia but it's still a fight for one of 100 U.N. Senate seats. It still means millions of dollars are to Georgia coming on ads, social media and staffers to knock on doors and get out there.
 
And we're still seeing the big names coming to the state of Georgia. Former president Barack Obama will be coming later this week. And a long list of U.S. senators coming to the state of Georgia as well. 
 
BRUNHUBER: I notice you didn't mention Donald Trump. Still a question mark as to whether he will come and whether that will be a big drag on Herschel Walker. 
 
I'm wondering, without the urgency of control of the Senate at stake here, is the challenge bigger for Walker, who has to not only convince the people who voted for him for the first time to come back but then to find some new voters among moderates and independents?
 
BALI: It doesn't seem like that's the approach. It seems like the approach with Herschel Walker is to turn out the base. He's focusing on core Republican conservative issues, to turn out his base voters. 
 
That's what we're seeing, connecting with Senator Warnock with President Biden on issues like inflation and gas prices. That seems to be the focus when it comes to Herschel Walker. 
 
BRUNHUBER: I guess no better ally than Brian Kemp to get out the vote. His admirers said he basically wrote the playbook on how to win in Georgia. He did much better in his election battle than Walker did. 
 
So how has the governor and his extensive campaign operation helped Walker? 
 
Because a decent number of those who voted for Kemp voted in a split ticket and actually supported Warnock over Walker. 
 
BALI: There were actually 200,000 people who voted for Governor Kemp but did not vote for Herschel Walker and you've seen the two-pronged approach. We saw Governor Kemp make his first campaign appearance with Herschel Walker earlier this week. 
 
But as you mentioned, more importantly, it's the lending of that very strong engine that Kemp's campaign built of people who knocked on doors, that data operation, the whole staff now getting behind Herschel Walker is just as important as Governor Kemp going on the trail with Herschel Walker. 
 
BRUNHUBER: If you were to see Kemp as a balloon lifting walkers, is Donald Trump an anchor, especially now that he's declared he is running in 2024?
 
Is that a factor here?
 
BALI: You've seen Senator Warnock feel like it's a factor. You've seen an ad out there that basically just has that portion of former president Trump's speech, when he announced he was running for president, bring up he was supporting Herschel Walker. 
 
So you've seen it come up in the ads, that he's connecting the former president with Herschel Walker. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes. I mean those ads are just ubiquitous here in Georgia and Atlanta where I am.
 <br>[05:10:00]
 
BRUNHUBER: And I guess that has to do with the fact that Warnock has a huge money advantage. 
 
How is that playing out on the ground?
 
BALI: There is a money advantage for Senator Warnock. But you've got so much national money, national organizations, who are also buying ads. So you're seeing tons of ads. You're seeing any number of sports, whether it's World Cup or college football, this weekend, you're getting plenty of ads on both sides. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. So finally, you know, the significant element of the battle in the election was around the opportunity to vote as we saw in that package, Democrats recently winning a ruling that would allow early voting. 
 
How might that affect the race, do you think?
 
BALI: I think you heard in Eva's piece, it did affect some voters to fight over the Saturday voting, over the interpretation of the law, around whether Saturday voting could happen around a state holiday; in this case, Thanksgiving. 
 
So did it motivate some people?
 
You probably saw some people motivated to vote on Saturday and possibly vote today on Sunday as well. We'll see how that turns out with all the mandatory early voting this upcoming week and, of course, Election Day on the 6th. 
 
BRUNHUBER: A fascinating race to follow and so much at stake, as you point out, Rahul Bali. Thanks so much. Appreciate it. 
 
BALI: Great to be on. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Donald Trump is downplaying a meeting he had with Holocaust denier Nick Fuentes. Even some Trump allies are criticizing his meeting, along with Kanye West, especially after he announced he is running for president again. Maeve Reston has more details from the White House. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAEVE RESTON, CNN NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: The backlash is growing over Trump's decision to host the rapper, Kanye West and white supremacist Nick Fuentes, a podcaster who has a large and growing following on the far right. West showed up at Trump's private Mar-a-Lago club with Nick Fuentes.
 
 West has been banned from most major social media platforms. Sources told our Kristen Holmes that Fuentes was a guest of West's and not invited by Trump. 
 
But they sat at Thanksgiving dinner along with others at Trump's outdoor patio table. Trump was engaged with Fuentes and found him very interesting. 
 
Fuentes said he had a good understanding of Trump's base and told him that they prefer it, when he speaks off the cuff and ad-libs during speeches, which, of course, Trump's advisers do not want him to do. 
 
And at one point during the dinner, sources told Kristen that Trump liked Fuentes. West echoed that sentiment in a video he posted on Twitter, claiming that Trump is, quote, "really impressed with Fuentes." 
 
But all of this is creating considerable controversy for Trump, who just announced he's running for the White House again over a week ago. And Trump has already made attempts to explain Fuentes' appearance at his private club. 
 
I just want to read you the statement on this. He said, quote, "This past week Kanye West called me to have dinner at Mar-a-Lago. Shortly thereafter, he unexpectedly showed up with three of his friends, whom I knew nothing about. 
 
"We had dinner on Tuesday evening with many members present on the back patio. The dinner was quick and uneventful. They then left for the airport." 
 
Of course, in his post he has the opportunity to condemn the ideology that Fuentes has espoused. And he has not done that so far. So obviously this is quickly becoming a major issue in his campaign -- Maeve Reston, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: Joe Biden is weighing in on that dinner. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUESTION: Mr. President, what do you think about Trump having dinner with a white nationalist?
 
JOE BIDEN (D), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: You don't want to hear what I think. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: The White House spokesperson Andrew Bates said, "Bigotry, hate and anti-Semitism have absolutely no place in America, including at Mar-a-Lago. Holocaust denial is repugnant and dangerous and it must be forcefully condemned." 
 
It's been two weeks since four Idaho students were killed and shocked the small college town. 
 
And people of China take to the streets in a show of anger and defiance over the country's strict COVID policy. We're live from Beijing after the break. Stay with us. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:15:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
BRUNHUBER: On university campuses and in cities across China, Saturday, in an unprecedented show of defiance and anger over the government's restricted COVID policy. Some protesters held blank sheets of white paper, traditionally a symbolic protest against censorship. 
 
A deadly fire in an apartment building in a far western region appears to be fueling the most recent anger, as it appears lockdowns delayed firefighters from reaching the victims. In an op-ed published Saturday morning, Chinese state media call the COVID measures, "scientifically effective," saying the public should have full confidence in them. 
 
Let's get more from CNN's Beijing bureau chief Steven Jiang. 
 
We've seen isolated protests before. But these seem different in terms of the size and scale.
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN SENIOR PRODUCER, BEIJING BUREAU: That's right. 
 <br>[05:20:00]
 
JIANG: I think the deadly fire and how authorities handles the aftermath seems to be the straw that broke the camel. Authorities, after insisting for weeks and months that lockdowns must be maintained because of the COVID situation, they all of a sudden announced a miraculous victory of their campaign and a phased reopening. 
 
That served as a wakeup call in terms of how increasingly ineffective and unscientific and how dangerous this policy has become. And, of course, all the absurdities surrounding its enforcement. 
 
That's why we're now seeing people across the country trying to take things into their own hands. We've seen people taking to the streets, demanding their freedom, clashing with security forces but also people elsewhere, including Beijing, tearing down metal barriers or fences near residences. 
 
All of that culminating Saturday night into Sunday morning when there were multiple vigils and protests spearheaded by young people, including on many university campuses with, as you mentioned, people holding up white paper because white paper is a color of mourning and also to vent so much anger and frustration pent up inside themselves. 
 
Because for a lot of these college kids, they have spent their entire college life under some form of lockdown, Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Steven, you mentioned clashes with police. 
 
Is there a chance the crackdown might turn more violent, maybe even deadly?
 
JIANG: That is increasingly the worry, especially as you played some of that protest from Saturday night. That was an extraordinary moment, because the protester there chanting slogans, directly targeting the ruling Communist Party and its leader, Xi Jinping. That was considered a watershed moment by many because, up until that point, many opponents of the zero COVID policy had been dancing around this by saying the policy itself was not all wrong, the leadership had their heart in the right place. 
 
But they blamed local enforcement or overzealous or incompetent officials. But protesters directly challenging the legitimacy of the party and its straw man leader. That's something not tolerated. 
 
That's why there's increasing worry and concern about the fate of some protesters that have been taken away by police. We have seen fresh video, people demanding those people's release. But now we understand there's a heavy security police presence on that location trying to clear the people from that location. 
 
So there is a lot of growing uncertainty and anxiety from the government's perspective. They're very fearful of this kind of protest, that kind of chanting, inspiring others across the country. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: We'll keep following that. Steven Jiang, thank you so much. 
 
Venezuela's government and the opposition have signed an agreement asking the U.N. to manage the country's humanitarian crisis. Since 2014, Venezuela has been in an economic spiral due to chronic mismanagement and collapse of the price of the crude oil, their main export. 
 
On Saturday the U.S. granted Chevron limited authorization to resume pumping oil as long as Venezuela's government and opposition continued to honor their agreement. 
 
We're returning to here in the U.S. It's been two weeks since the killing of four University of Idaho students. Local, state and federal investigators are still looking for answers. 
 
After more than a thousand tips and at least 150 interviews, they have yet to identify a suspect or discover a murder weapon. 
 
Meanwhile, a small college town that didn't have a murder since 2015 is reeling in the aftermath, with residents and students alike worried about their safety. Here's CNN's Camila Bernal with the latest on the investigation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It has been extremely frustrating for the families and the friends of the victims and frankly for the entire community because it's two weeks later and we still don't have a motive. 
 
We don't have a weapon and we do not have a suspect. Authorities saying they need more time to look over the crime scene, to process the crime scene. They say things like blood needs to be evaluated, fingerprints, tire marks. 
 
They've already taken about 4,000 pictures at the scene. They've also collected about 100 pieces of evidence. They've done 3D scans and there's more to do. There that's all in addition to the hundreds and hundreds of tips they've received, about 1,000 so far. 
 
And authorities say they've already done about 150 interviews. 
 <br>[05:25:00]
 
BERNAL: So it's going to take a lot of time and a lot of money. Governor Brad Little already pledging up to $1 million to help in terms of resources for this investigation. 
 
And we've seen those resources there. Officers even working on Thanksgiving Day. In terms of the case and the timeline, it's pretty much the same. What authorities have been telling us is that these four students went out on Saturday night, November 12th; came back on Sunday at around 2:00 in the morning. 
 
They're believed to have been killed during the early morning hours, stabbed multiple times while they were likely sleeping. Some of them did have defensive wounds, so it's possible that some of them fought back. 
 
But there are still so many questions as to what exactly happened that night. One thing, though, that authorities are saying, is that they believe this was a targeted attack -- Camila Bernal, CNN, Los Angeles. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: In Colorado, residents are showing support for a man hailed as one of the heroes in the Club Q mass shooting. Richard Fierro has reopened his family's brewery for the first time since the deadly attack of the LGBTQ night club. 
 
To support him, large crowds lined up, with some people traveling across the state to be there. Richard is one of two people who police say took down the accused gunman in the shooting, preventing further harm to clubgoers. He spoke with CNN about the support he received. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAJ. RICHARD FIERRO, U.S. ARMY (RET.), Q CLUB HERO: Everybody wiped us out. It was beautiful as a businessperson. And it was more beautiful as a person to see the variance, the difference, the diversity, the inclusion of everyone there, everybody in the same room just having some joy and enjoying a beer. 
 
You know, I tried to shake everyone's hand and thank them all. I'm not a hero, you know. Everyone else in that room was a hero with us. And everyone has a hero story to just try and survive. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Ukraine commemorates the victims of a historic famine that claimed millions of lives. But in the process, they're trying to help other nations who need food right now. We'll have a live report on that. 
 
Plus emergency crews are moving ahead with repairs to the power grid in Kyiv. Stay with us. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
BRUNHUBER: Welcome back to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Ukraine is marking the anniversary of a horrific famine by working to send food to people who need it now. 
 
On Saturday, President Zelenskyy commemorated the Holodomor or terror famine engineered by Josef Stalin. Zelenskyy used the occasion to Host the Grain from Ukraine summit, designed to send grain to countries in need. 
 
It raised about $150 million that will help 5 million people facing starvation. Ukraine is still working to fix its power grid after Russia's recent missile strikes. Comparing it to what happened in the 1930s couldn't be missed. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Ukraine will not watch it silently and without taking actions. Our nation remembers the horrible silence of 1932 and 1933. We must do everything possible to save as many as people and restore as many as elements as possible of global food security. 
 
We need to rid Russia of the weapon called hunger. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OLAF SCHOLZ, GERMAN CHANCELLOR: The gruesome tactics applied back entailed isolation and the confiscation of grain and food supplies, the forced deportation of Ukrainians. 
 
Today we stand united in stating that hunger must never again be used as a weapon. That is why we cannot tolerate what we are witnessing. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Ukrainian emergency crews are making progress, fixing the power grid in the capital. The officials announced this morning power was largely restored in Kyiv. President Zelenskyy said on Friday power shortages are still a problem. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): Today, our power engineers continued restoring the system and now we have more opportunities to generate and supply electricity but, unfortunately, not enough to make the supply completely stable. 
 
If the consumption increases in the evening, the number of outages may increase. This once again shows how important it is to announce a power and consume it rationally. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Meanwhile we're getting reports of a barrage of Russian artillery strikes in Southern Ukraine and that includes dozens of attacks in the Kherson region and more in Zaporizhzhya. Sam Kiley joins us from Zaporizhzhya. 
 
Plenty to discuss with you, Sam. Take us first through the Grain from Ukraine initiative. 
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it's no accident at all, of course, that the Grain from Ukraine, as you point out, is on the same day as Ukrainians mark Holodomor. That's when Stalin used the food or absence of food deliberately. 
 
It was also characterized by mass deportations, the banning of the Ukrainian language frequently, the effort to obliterate and suppress any talk of Ukrainian culture, history or art. 
 
Now that very similar playbook being used by Putin, who has himself forced deportations from areas under Russian occupation here in Ukraine and, of course, he's been accused by the international community and Ukraine of using grain and food as a weapon more widely to show the world the deadly consequences worldwide of sanctions against Russia at the very least. 
 
Now the Grain from Ukraine has raised $150 million. That's a backdrop of Ukrainian officials saying the net production will be down by about 44 percent this year. The exports since June, July, are down by about 30 percent. 
 
And that's not even accounting for those exports that were simply stopped completely through the first half of the year as a result of Russia's invasion. [05:35:00]
 
KILEY: So it is a very timely reminder of why it is, Kim, that Ukrainians are so resolute in their effort to drive the Russians out of their country. They've been through this before under the Soviet Union. 
 
They recognize a lot of the tactics being used. But they know their history because now at least, since Ukraine was independent, they're able to teach an accurate version of their national history. Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Good points. Meanwhile, Sam, we're learning the railway infrastructure was hit by Russian missiles this morning in attacks around Zaporizhzhya. 
 
What more can you tell us?
 
KILEY: So these are different, Kim, from the cruise missile attacks against the energy infrastructure. But we've seen this before, the deliberate targeting of the rail infrastructure. 
 
There was a massacre some months ago, where more than 50 people were killed. No casualties there in Dnipro province neighboring to where I am now. But it has hit a significant transport hub and the authorities are saying rail transport is going to be severely disrupted. 
 
There have also been some other strikes on the outskirts of the city where I am, Zaporizhzhya. That raises tensions because there's a nuclear power station downriver from where I am, which is often the scene of outgoing shelling and incoming shelling, a very dangerous situation there, Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. And meanwhile, of course, Ukrainians suffering not just through those direct attacks but also the effects of the attacks on the power and water systems. There has been good word recently. We got word that 80 percent of electricity needs have been restored. 
 
So what's the latest on the efforts to restore and to protect these systems?
 
KILEY: Well, the restoration project is ongoing. They say it will take two years at least to get Ukraine back to 100 percent capability. What they're really talking about now, about meeting 80 percent of the needs, that's the keyword, that which is absolutely necessary is online. 
 
That includes Kherson, which had destruction to its power generating capabilities and those connections more widely into Ukraine. Those have been partly restored. Notwithstanding, the ongoing attacks on Kherson and villages nearby have been hit in the last 24 hours alongside the city there. 
 
So the power supply is being restored. Ukrainians are pretty much every day saying to the international community, please help us with air defenses. They've got more sophisticated equipment. But it's nowhere near what they say will keep the missile swarms out of the skies. 
 
Very, very long way from being able to defend themselves, much less dominate their own skies and get further onto the front in terms of their military campaigns on the ground, grinding on. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: Really appreciate getting all of your reporting there in Zaporizhzhya. Sam Kiley, thanks so much. 
 
A second victim has died from his wounds after two explosions rocked Jerusalem Wednesday. Medical authorities say the man was hurt badly in the attack and succumbed to his injuries. A 16-year old Canadian Israeli was also killed. 
 
Israeli police say the explosions were carried out by a, quote, "well organized cell." The explosive devices used were very powerful. So far no one has claimed responsibility. 
 
Search and rescue operations continue for victims of a landslide on the Italian island of Ischia. At least one person was killed and 10 others missing. Eight people have been rescued but weather conditions are making the search for others difficult. 
 
Cars, roads and buildings were damaged when torrential rain swept through the island off the coast of Naples on Saturday. 
 
Protests continue to rock the country of Iran. We'll have the details coming up. Please stay with us. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:40:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
BRUNHUBER: Iran's supreme leader is praising the country's paramilitary force for its role in the deadly crackdown on protests. In a televised national address, he described the military as, quote, "innocent fighters protecting the nation." 
 
He called the protesters "rioters and thugs" and alleged they were being backed by foreign forces. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER (voice-over): This as Iranians took to the streets on Friday. Many, as you see here, protested against him.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Let's bring in CNN's Jomana Karadsheh. 
 
The Iranians seem to be doubling down on the protests. 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The supreme leader there was addressing a gathering of the volunteer paramilitary force affiliated with the Revolutionary Guard Corps. 
 
They have led the way with the violence and brutality as they have for a long time, for years and years in an attempt to crush dissent in the country. 
 
And many are seeing this, with the supreme leader praising them for confronting the enemies of Iran, the rioters and thugs as he described them, as giving his blessings for this crackdown and the green light to continue and intensify the regime's attempt to crush these protests. 
 
You know, this narrative from the regime is not new. We have been hearing this for weeks and weeks now, describing the protesters as rioters, as thugs, as mercenaries, as agents of foreign powers with this conspiracy and plot, as they have described it, naming countries from Israel to the U.S., U.K. 
 
And the list goes on. They use this as a pretext to intensify this brutal crackdown and to unleash brutal force on these protesters.
 <br>[05:45:00]
 
KARADSHEH: And we heard from the United Nations' human rights chief on Thursday, who described the situation on the ground now as a full- fledged human rights crisis. He urged the regime to listen to its people, to address their grievances, saying this narrative is a convenient one, that it is the typical narrative of tyranny. 
 
These old ways and this fortress mentality doesn't work anymore. What it does is it aggravates the situation. This is exactly what we've been seeing now for weeks. 
 
The more people are killed, the more people are detained, this is only making people angrier, more defiant and more determined to continue protesting and risking everything for regime change. 
 
The concern is when you're seeing the protesters not backing down, still defiant after all this and the regime clearly not softening its position, at least publicly, the concern is the situation is going to get far, far worse on the ground. 
 
If you look at what's been going on, according to the U.N., 300 people have been killed. More than 300 people have been killed since September, including more than 40 children but they believe the numbers are much higher than that. 
 
More than 14,000 men, women and children have been arrested since September and at least six people, six protesters have been sentenced to death. Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Thanks so much, Jomana Karadsheh. I appreciate it. 
 
Dozens of female activists in London came out in support of the protests in Iran. Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER (voice-over): They shaved their heads or cut off their hair to show solidarity for women's rights. Iran, of course, has been rocked by demonstrations following the death of Mahsa Amini while in police custody. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Former Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan called off a protest march to the capital city, Islamabad, on Saturday. It was his first public appearance after a gun attack, which he says was an assassination attempt. He is pushing the government for early elections and says he called off the march to avoid violence. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IMRAN KHAN, FORMER PAKISTAN PRIME MINISTER (through translator): I have decided not go to Islamabad because I know there will be destruction and the loss will be to the country. Instead of causing destruction in our country, creating havoc in our country, it's better that we get out of this corrupt system. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Khan has said the prime minister and others were behind the plot to kill him. The government and military officials have denied the accusation. 
 
Still ahead, jubilation in Argentina. The country keeps its World Cup hopes alive after a heroic performance from Lionel Messi. We'll show you the top moments from Saturday's match coming up. Please stay with us. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:50:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
(SPORTS) 
 <br>[05:55:00]
 
BRUNHUBER: I'm Kim Brunhuber at CNN Center in Atlanta. You can follow me on Twitter @KimBrunhuber. Next up, "Tech for Good."