Headline: The Global Brief with Bianca Nobilo
Sub-headline: Saudi Arabia's Historic Victory; Iran's Crackdown In Kurdish Area; Indonesia Quake Rescue Efforts. Aired 5-5:30p ET

Aired November 22, 2022 - 17:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[17:00:28]
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN HOST:  Hello, I'm Lynda Kinkade, live in Atlanta. You're watching THE GLOBAL BRIEF. Good to have you with us. 
 
Just ahead, a match that shocks the world of football, but a victory for diplomacy in the Middle East. Saudi Arabia beating Argentina in 2022 World 
 
 Cup in Qatar. 
 
Then, a new critical phase of unrest in Iran. Military forces reportedly using heavy weapons against protesters in Kurdish cities. 
 
And it's a race against time to rescue those trapped under rubble in Indonesia after a devastating earthquake. We'll bring you the latest. 
 
Well, let's start with a historic win for the Middle East. Underdog Saudi Arabia defeating Argentina 2 to 1 at the World Cup in Qatar. And take a 
 
 look at this photo, pretty much summing up the mode in Argentina. That's Lionel Messi, who is considered one of the tournament's favorites. 
 
On the other side of the pitch, the Saudis who are amongst the biggest long shots, overjoyed. The king has declared Wednesday a public holiday. But 
 
 this win is about so much more than football. 
 
CNN's Becky Anderson explains why. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Sometimes, the beautiful game is just that, a game. And then there are days when it is so much more 
 
 than that. For these Saudi fans, today was one of those days. 
 
The Falcons stunning Argentina, one of the tournament's favorites. 2-1, inarguably one of the greatest upsets in World Cup history. 
 
How do you feel? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I feel absolutely amazing. It was a beautiful game. We beat them with Messi. Argentina, actually one of the favorites to win the 
 
 game, they were unbeaten, 36 games. But guess who beat them? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Saudi Arabia.
 
(CHEERS)
 
ANDERSON:  This game goes a lot deeper than just the David beats Goliath results. It's this image of the emir of Qatar draped in a Saudi scarf, 
 
 which really is so symbolic. 
 
And this is why. Until last year, Qatar and Saudi had fallen out a big time. In 2017, Riyadh cut off diplomatic and trade ties, along with three 
 
 other Arab nations, accusing Doha of supporting extremist groups, allegations which Qatar still denies. 
 
That economic squeeze offered Qatar billions of dollars. Throughout that for your spat, forces here told me in private, they believed it was a move 
 
 borne out of pure jealousy. Doha had won the right to host the world's biggest sporting party, a competition Qatar always insisted was meant for 
 
 everyone. 
 
HASSAN AL THAWADI, SEC. GEN., SUPREME CMTE. FOR DELIVERY &amp; LEGACY:  From day one, we said this is a tournament for the region and it still continues 
 
 to determine for the region. We always work and strive toward ensuring the benefit of the World Cup and that it extends beyond Qatar, to the people of 
 
 the region. 
 
ANDERSON:  Then, in January 2021, the court reversed their decision, and Qatar was back in the fold. Evidence of that rapprochement here during the 
 
 opening ceremony. Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia wearing a Qatari scarf, alongside the emir of Qatar, which brings us back to this image. 
 
 Tuesday, of Tamim Al Thani at the Saudi game against Argentina. 
 
A major win for both countries on Qatari soil both on and off the pitch, and a moment of pure joy for Arab fans from all over the region. 
 
Becky Anderson, CNN, Doha. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, the FIFA 2022 World Cup, as we've been reporting, has been full of controversy, especially in regards to human rights issues in the 
 
 country. On Tuesday, the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and the Qatari foreign minister signed a letter of intent to emphasize their 
 
 commitment to advance labor practices in the country. Well, Blinken also spoke on Tuesday about the recent unrest in Iran. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  We are taking steps across the board to push back against both the actions that Iran has taken to repress 
 
 its own people, in terms of sanctioning those who are responsible, and also helping companies make sure that the Iranians have the technology they need 
 
 to continue to communicate with one another, and to be connected to the outside world. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[17:05:04]
 
KINKADE:  Well, Tehran is targeting Iranian Kurdish groups in northern Iraq, once again. PAK, the Kurdistan freedom party, says that they launched 
 
 a missile and launch strikes Tuesday on the group's military base across the border. Iran's Revolutionary Guards claim they are targeting, quote, 
 
 terrorist groups who are supporting the protest movement back in Iran. 
 
Well, Tehran says 40 foreigners have been arrested for taking part in anti- government protests without revealing their nationalities. 
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh is standing for us in Istanbul and joins us now. 
 
Jomana, good to have you with us. 
 
We have been discussing these protests for a couple of months now, but this does sound like a real escalation. Iran is intensifying its crackdown. 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It really is, Lynda. What we've seen over the past week is this new wave of protesters that have erupted across 
 
 the country. It appears that the regime's crackdown has also intensified. Activists and Hengaw Organization for Human Rights, that's a human rights 
 
 monitor based in Norway, but it's been documenting human rights violations, mostly in the western part of the country, in the majority Kurdish areas. 
 
And they have been telling us that they have seen a significant increase in brutality over the past week with forces opening up at protesters and using 
 
 lethal force against the population. They say, I can tell you tonight, there is a lot of concern about the situation about it being described as 
 
 critical. But especially in those Kurdish areas. 
 
Lynda, we do have to warn viewers, they may find some of the video in our report graphic and disturbing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over):  Hundreds poured into the streets of Piranshahr, united in their grief and anger. A martyr for Kurdistan, they chant. They 
 
 chant for 16-year-old protester, Karavan Ghader Shokri, one of the youngest lives lost in a week of carnage across Iran's Kurdish region. 
 
At his burial, his father tells mourners, I dedicated my son to Kurdistan. Every funeral brings more anger, more defiance from the minorities 
 
 oppressed by the ruthless republic. Iran's minorities, including the Kurds, have borne the brunt of the unforgiving a crackdown. Kurdish cities and 
 
 towns turned into war zones, the regime sending troops and heavy weapons to suppress an uprising that's been growing stronger by the day. 
 
RAMYAR HASSANI, HENGAW ORGANIZATION FOR HUMAN RIGHTS:  The entire regime has become very militarized. This is quite a planned operation against the 
 
 Kurds. They very deliberately and indiscriminately are killing the Kurds, in every city of Kurdistan. 
 
KARADSHEH:  Video after video emerged Monday, capturing the horror unleashed on the town of Javanroud, no respite from the indiscriminate 
 
 heavy gunfire, not even to retrieve their dead. 
 
The regime claims it's confronting terrorists and separatists. Activists warn it's a pretext for an even bloodier crackdown, under the cover of an 
 
 Internet shutdown. Most of the region has now been cut off from the world. 
 
HASSANI:  Whenever the Iranian government is shutting down, it means that they want to intensify the crackdown even more, and carry out the 
 
 operations that they want to even more freely. 
 
KARADSHEH:  Iran's oppressive regime hasn't been holding back against its own people, but many fear the worst is yet to come. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH (on camera):  And, Lynda, we've been in touch with activists and members of the Hengaw team all day, trying to get an update on the 
 
 situation. But they are telling us, it is very, very hard for them to get information out of these areas. Because of the governments internet 
 
 disruptions, it's disruptive communications, making it very hard for them to get up to date information. 
 
But with the information that's been trickling out, they've been able to confirm that at least 45 people have been killed since last Tuesday in this 
 
 crackdown, they say, and more than 1,500 people have been wounded. But they really fear and believe that the numbers are much higher than that, Lynda. 
 
KINKADE:  Yeah, really difficult to get information out. You and the team are doing a really good job trying to get that information to us. 
 <br>[17:10:05]
 
Thanks so much. Our Jomana Karadsheh there. 
 
Well, the International Atomic Energy Agency says that Iran is increasing its production of uranium at one of its nuclear plants, and enriching the 
 
 chemical with up to 60 percent purity, which is considered weapons grade material. This planning question is in the Fordow facility near the city of 
 
 Qom. Uranium with 90 percent purity is needed to make a nuclear bomb. 
 
Now, Iran has consistently denied that it intends to assemble nuclear weapons. 
 
The death toll from an earthquake in Indonesia's West Java province is climbing dramatically. Nearly 300 people have been reported dead in tens of 
 
 thousands are unable to return to their homes. Aftershocks, power outages, and landslides are complicating efforts to reach survivors. 
 
CNN's Anna Coren reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  After 30 seconds of the earth violently shaking, a man in shock picks up his phone and starts filming. 
 
 The building has been destroyed, everything has collapsed, he says. 
 
He walks through what is left of his village in the Cianjur district in Indonesia's West Java province after the earthquake. 
 
As the injured sit dazed and bloodied, others scream for those feared trapped under the rubble. Where is my child? Where is my child? A mother 
 
 cries, while a little girl sobs, mama, mama. 
 
The 5.6 magnitude earthquake struck the mountainous region about 75 kilometers southeast of the nation's capital, Jakarta. At around 1:20 p.m. 
 
 on Monday. Its shallow depth at ten kilometers meant it had great destruction on the surface, where multiple landslides buried hundreds. 
 
At the regional hospital, staff yelled for people to evacuate, fearing it would also collapse. 
 
Outside, a makeshift triage centers was set up as countless injured were brought in, waiting for medical treatment. Doctors say most of the injuries 
 
 were head traumas and fractures. But for this mother of seven, seeking treatment, her priority is for her missing child. 
 
The children were downstairs and I was upstairs, getting laundry, she explains. Everything collapsed beneath me, and I was crushed beneath this. 
 
 One of my kids are still missing, my house is flattened, good god. 
 
According to Save the Children, dozens of schools were damaged. Students were in class at the time of the quake, having come in from lunch. Books 
 
 and bags just left by those who were lucky enough to escape. 
 
Suddenly, the wall fell and the students were screaming and crying, explains this teacher. There was dust everywhere, the students grabbed each 
 
 other and ran into the building. 
 
As search and rescue teams chrome through the rubble, Indonesian President Joko Widodo visited the disaster zone to pay his condolences, and offer 
 
 compensation to the victims. He told the tireless crews to keep searching for any survivors, an outcome that is looking more and more unlikely. 
 
Anna Coren, CNN, Hong Kong. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  We've got some news just in from the football world. The Glazer family, longtime owners of Manchester United, are exploring options 
 
 regarding the future of the club. It could involve selling all or part of their stake. 
 
"WORLD SPORTS" Don Riddell is in Doha, Qatar, for us. 
 
Don, what are you learning? 
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  It's been a pretty busy day for Manchester United. This news just coming hot on the heels of the announcement that 
 
 Cristiano Ronaldo would be leaving the club immediately by mutual consent. That is a reference to, or as a result of Ronaldo's highly incendiary 
 
 interview with Piers Morgan just a few days ago. After that, it was clear he could never play for the club again. 
 
And now, we have this news that the Glazer family who have been in control of Manchester United for the last 17 years are in the process of exploring 
 
 strategic alternatives. So, of course, this is being interpreted as them looking to sell the club, but it may not be as straightforward as that. 
 
 But, certainly, they are looking to change the way things are.
 
And that news, I think on the face of it will be music to the ears of many Manchester United fans who have become incredibly agitated and outspoken 
 
 about the Glazer ownership of their football club. It's been a long time since the club was successful. They haven't won the Premier League since 
 
 2013, and that was at a time when they were routinely dominating. 
 
In the years since, they have seen the likes of Manchester City, they're bitter local rivals, come in and take their place at the top of the tree. 
 
 They now completely dominate the premier league. 
 
There have been numerous protests against the Glazer family. 
 <br>[16:15:01]
 
They have really heated up in recent times this season. Those protests have become really quite intense, and very heated. And there was, you know, 
 
 speculation as to whether the Glazers would ever really sell. 
 
They hardly ever come to the games. They managed from afar in the United States. But I think the news that they are now looking to do something 
 
 else, I think most Manchester United fans will be really quite happy about that. 
 
KINKADE:  A big development, we will tune into "WORLD SPORT" with you, for much more, in about 15 minutes time.
 
Don Riddell, in Qatar, thanks so much. 
 
Well, still ahead, China tightens COVID restrictions as the country battles a worsening outbreak. We will have the latest from the region. 
 
Plus, pomp, pageantry, and money. King Charles hosting South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa. We will have a look at what that could mean for U.K. trade.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE:  Good to have you back. 
 
Well, let's take a look at some key stories making international headlines today. 
 
In the U.S. state of Colorado, the five victims of the mass shooting in an LGBTQ nightclub have been identified, as well as two heroes credited with 
 
 bringing down the gunman. One of those heroes is a veteran who tells CNN that his military instincts kicked in when he heard the gunfire. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RICHARD FIERRO, SUBDUED CLUB Q SUSPECT:  I went, hey, I've got to stop this. So I went across the room and I pulled the man. He fell to his left 
 
 side, and when I put him down, his rifle was in front of him. The young man to try to help me was in front of him, with his feet towards his head, and 
 
 I started yelling, hey, kick his AR and I was going for the pistol. 
 
I just started hitting him to make him stop fighting. I'm not going to let him back up. And I said, Thomas, I told him, hey, man, kick, kick, kick, 
 
 kick this guy, kick this guy. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  More than 100 migrants have been rescued by the U.S. Coast Guard from an overcrowded boat that have run aground on a sandbar in the Florida 
 
 Keys.
 <br>[17:20:00]
 
The boat is believed to have come from Haiti. Some people had jumped into the ocean in an effort to swim to land. 
 
The Colombia government has formally entered peace negotiations with the National Liberation Army, one of the largest rebel groups in the country. 
 
 The two delegations will hold peace talks with Venezuela over the next three weeks. These talks are aimed at ending more than 50 years of 
 
 guerrilla warfare in Colombia. 
 
Well, China is ramping up COVID restrictions as cases of the virus surged. Residents in Beijing are being told to stay at home, while Shanghai is 
 
 tightening rules for people entering the city. People who have entered Shanghai less than five days ago will be barred from entering public 
 
 places, including restaurants and shopping malls. 
 
Ukraine is reporting constant attacks in the eastern Donetsk region. It accuses Russia of shelling civilian targets in towns and villages all along 
 
 the front line. A regional governor says at least four people have been killed in Ukrainian-controlled areas of Donetsk in the past 24 hours. 
 
Well, I want to go live now to Ukraine, and our Matthew chance is in Odessa for us. 
 
Good to have you with us, Matthew. 
 
So, colossal damage is how the head of Ukraine's government owned electricity operator describes the situation after dozens and dozens of 
 
 missiles. Just explain for us how widespread is this damage. 
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  It is pretty much a nationwide. We have seen over the past couple of weeks, the Russians 
 
 really switch their military strategy towards targeting with heavy missiles, the energy, the critical energy infrastructure of the country, 
 
 apparently, with the express purpose of trying to disable power lines, to cause power cuts, and shortages. 
 
And that's been a successful, in the sense that, you know, across the country now, millions of Ukrainians are at least partially without power. 
 
 And it's causing enormous logistical problems for the Ukrainian authorities that they're working 24/7 to try and reconnect power lines wherever 
 
 possible. 
 
Power cuts are common, and, of course, we are looking at a time where temperatures are freezing, and plunging rapidly, as winter really sets in, 
 
 which is the period of the year which requires the most energy, especially in this part of the world. So heating, cooking, things like that, this 
 
 bombardment that Ukraine has been suffering is critical on the energy infrastructure. It is really setting the nation up for a very dark, very 
 
 cold several winter months ahead -- Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Yeah, certainly tough times. 
 
Good to have you with us. Matthew Chance, for us staying pretty late for us in Odessa, thanks very much. There were scenes of pomp and pageantry in 
 
 London today, as in his first state visit as monarch, King Charles welcome South Africa's president, Cyril Ramaphosa. The trip is significant as the 
 
 two countries look to bolster economic ties. 
 
CNN's Nada Bashir reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  All the pomp and all the pageantry, a truly royal welcome for South African President Cyril 
 
 Ramaphosa. The first royal dignitary to be invited for in official state visit under the reign of King Charles III. The South African president 
 
 arriving just in time for some more favorable British weather. 
 
This is a moment of history, but also one of tradition. And preparations have been underway for weeks, from lining the mall with the South African 
 
 flag, to rehearsals with the royal carriage procession. A special menu for Tuesday's state banquet has even been designed. South Africa's national 
 
 flower carefully being recreated out of sugar. 
 
The British monarchy shares a long and complex relationship with South Africa. A former colony, and enduring commonwealth nation, and Britain's 
 
 biggest trading partner on the African continent. But beyond royal relations, this will be an opportunity for the British government to 
 
 strengthen its own diplomatic ties with South Africa. 
 
JAMES CLEVERLY, BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY:  The fact that we are welcoming the president of South Africa for his majesty the king's first ever state 
 
 visit, I think, should be read as our enduring commitment to the continent. 
 
BASHIR:  Prime Minister Rishi Sunak will also look to cement his own relationship with the South African president, with ambitious plans to, in 
 
 his words, turbo-charge investment and economic growth in South Africa.
 
Addressing the British parliament on Tuesday, Ramaphosa outlined his own economic goals. 
 <br>[17:25:00]
 
CYRIL RAMAPHOSA, SOUTH AFRICAN PRESIDENT:  You have stood by us during our darkest hours, and you have celebrated our achievements. This state visit 
 
 is an opportunity to reinvigorate the ties of promise, of trade, and investment between our two nations. 
 
BASHIR:  Matters that will be high on the agenda Wednesday, as Ramaphosa meets with Prime Minister Sunak at Downing Street. 
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, the Cuban singer Pablo Milanes has died in Madrid at the age of 79. 
 
Pablo Milanes helped found the music genre La nueva trova cubana which emerged in Latin America during the late 1960s, following the Cuban 
 
 revolution. The singer had been hospitalized earlier this month for a series of infections. 
 
And if you've never heard of Pablo Milanes, I recommend you get yourself a drink, and take it in, because he was poetic and legendary. 
 
Thanks so much for watching. That was THE GLOBAL BRIEF with me, Lynda Kinkade. 
 
"WORLD SPORT" is up next with your full coverage of the world cup, including the results of a France versus Australia from the last hour. 
 
And some breaking news coming from the Premier League, just hours after Manchester United announced it was parting ways with Cristiano Ronaldo, the 
 
 team's owners are saying they could sell the team. 
 
Do stay with CNN for all the details, with Don Riddell, up next. 
 
END