Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Ukraine Warns The Heaviest Battle Is Yet To Come; Europe Fills At Least 94 Percent Of Its Gas Storage Tanks; Thousands Of Iranians Take To The Streets To Remember The Life Of Mahsa Amini; Inside The Hospitals That Concealed Russian Casualties; Nigerians Forced To Use Floodwater Despite Cholera Risk; Two Reports Detail Our Addiction To Emissions; Matthew Perry's New Book. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired October 26, 2022 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
ISA SOARES, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT:  A very warm welcome to the show everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, Ukraine warns the heaviest battle is yet 
 
 to come as it steps up efforts to regain lost ground. Then Europe's gas tanks are almost full. What this means for the bloc's energy bills.   
 
And tear gas and police violence as thousands take to the streets in Iran to remember the life of Mahsa Amini. But first tonight, the heaviest of 
 
 battles lie ahead in occupied Kherson. That is according to an adviser to Ukraine's president. He says Russian forces are putting in a quote, 
 
 "inhuman effort to strengthen the defenses in the city ahead of Ukraine's counteroffensive."
 
Other Ukrainian officials say Russian-backed authorities are making life difficult for residents, putting pressure on them to quote, "evacuate to 
 
 Russia". NATO Secretary-General meanwhile says Russia's forces are failing on the battlefield as Ukraine grows in strength. He also categorically 
 
 rejects Russia's accusations that Ukraine is planning to use a dirty bomb.   
 
Saying Russia often accuses others of what they intend to do themselves. He warns Russia not to use it as a false flag -- as a false pretext for 
 
 further escalation. Well, on Wednesday, Putin repeated that claim without any evidence once again. Nic Robertson joins me now live from Kyiv. And 
 
 Nic, let me start really where we started the show in Kherson in the south.   
 
Which of course, as you and I have discussed, has become a crucial front in this war. Just explain this comments that we heard about being the heaviest 
 
 of battles. What are they expecting from the Russians here?   
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  It's going to be tough. I was speaking with Ukraine's military Intelligence chief about 
 
 what's happening in Kherson as well. It's going to be tough because Russia is pulling out the civilian infrastructure. So the civilians really will be 
 
 forced out.   
 
The banks, the money, the fire service, everything, any sort of civilian infrastructure to do with a Russian administration there is being pulled 
 
 out across the river eastwards. What's happening in its place, the military Intelligence chief told me is that Russia is putting in more troops. Now, 
 
 he believes that some of these troops that are coming in are conscripts.   
 
But they're preparing for a fight in the city. This is what Ukrainian forces are expecting as well. But he also said that Russian forces don't 
 
 want to be encircled and entrapped in the city. So even while they're reinforcing, they're preparing for the possibility of a quick exit. And for 
 
 this reason, part of Ukraine's tactics will be to focus on that important dam that's nearby.   
 
Because that dam is essentially an escape route for the Russian forces to get out. And if Ukraine can gain access in artillery fire or militarily 
 
 have influence over that dam. Then that will force Russia to pull its troops out and back off. So, there is going to be a long fight, I don't 
 
 think anyone is doubting that at the moment. That was my impression.  
 
It's wet, vehicles are getting bogged down. This is an area by the river. Naturally, there's a lot of irrigation. There is a lot of water there. And 
 
 this is the time of year that it's just going to make mobility really hard for both sides. But of course, it's Ukraine that's trying to advance. 
 
 Russians holding the town. Urban warfare. But at the back of the Russians' minds, they may have to pull out at a moment's notice.   
 
SOARES:  And it's what military analysts have been predicting of course for the last few months as like you said, the territory gets wet or it gets 
 
 harder of course to move. And while Ukraine, as you laid out, Nic, prepares for this, Russia seems -- continues to repeat this unsubstantiated claims 
 
 about Ukraine using a dirty bomb. I want you to have a listen to what Russia's ambassador to the U.K. told our Christiane Amanpour. Have a listen 
 
 to this, Nic. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ANDREY KELIN, RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED KINGDOM:  First of all, in his conversation, I mean, the Minister of Defense, Shoigu, he assured every 
 
 minister once again that we are not going to use a nuclear weapon.   
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
Russia is not going to use nukes. So it is out of the question.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  So Russia is not going to use nukes. But he went on to say we have information which is very serious information that something is under 
 
 preparation and it might be a dirty bomb. So we're just passing this information. He said in an interview. What is Ukraine, Nic, saying about 
 
 these continued baseless claims?    
 
ROBERTSON:  Well, you can listen to what the defense and military Intelligence chief told me. Because that was my first question to him when 
 
 we sat down earlier today.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
KYRYLO BUDANOV, CHIEF OF UKRAINIAN DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE (through translator):  This is a question that became something of a joke. And my 
 
 answer is direct. We are not getting prepared. We are not working on a dirty bomb.   
 
ROBERTSON:  Ukraine has invited the International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors to come here. When are they due to arrive? Where will they go 
 
 and when do you expect the results?   
 
BUDANOV:  We're absolutely supporting the visits of the IAEA mission, and we are waiting for them. We're waiting for them to visit all nuclear 
 
 facilities.   
 
ROBERTSON:  And Russia is identifying two sites. A science academy here in Kyiv and a mining facility in the center of Ukraine. How important is it to 
 
 you that the IAEA inspectors very quickly clear Ukraine of all these baseless Russian allegations.   
 
BUDANOV:  The sooner they come, the better things will be.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ROBERTSON:  So he also told me as well that he doesn't believe Russia is going to use nuclear weapons at this stage. I wanted to understand from him 
 
 though, what is Putin trying to do? If all these allegations are being made. That they don't, as his assessment is as the Russian ambassador in 
 
 London says. Russia isn't going to use nuclear weapons. Why all this noise? And he said -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
ROBERTSON:  Look, it's really simple. These phone calls that have gone to Ukraine's allies in Washington and London and Paris over the weekend, it's 
 
 all an effort to try to pressure Ukraine into getting into talks with Russia to get a peace deal on Putin's terms. He says absolutely that's not 
 
 going to happen. Russia needs to pull out of the country back to 1991 positions.  
 
So it's very clear from a Ukrainian perspective, this is noise coming from Russia. It's damaging. It's noise and it's all about pressure and 
 
 manipulating the international community.   
 
SOARES:  It is posturing and it is something that you and I, Nic, have discussed in the last month. Something that you told me, talking to your 
 
 sources right here next to me that they foresaw. How Russia sees this as having an upper hand, really, beg us to believe, does it not?   
 
ROBERTSON:  It does, and it's a reality that Putin has -- is really yet to grasp. He's still all about posturing. He's still all about winning the 
 
 narrative at home. But it's the battlefield that will be the true test here. The battle for Kherson which will eventually, as Ukrainians believe, 
 
 go against Russia. It's the battlefield narrative that Putin will eventually find absolutely hard to deny and have to find some kind of 
 
 compromise.   
 
We are a long way from that. This is still a war that has a long way to go. Russia's pushback is to try to destroy the electricity infrastructure here, 
 
 and there will be more.   
 
SOARES:  And there will be more, in the meantime, trying to flip the narrative. That is clear as you've just outlined. Nic Robertson for us in 
 
 Kyiv this evening, thanks very much, Nic, good to see you. Well, CNN spent today on the Kherson line with the Ukrainian Reconnaissance Unit as they 
 
 carefully pin-pointed Russian position.   
 
Fred Pleitgen shows us how Ukraine's counteroffensive in the region has been so successful, and why Russian forces have been hastily withdrawing. 
 
 Have a look at this.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  En route to the front in one of the most active areas of the brutal war in 
 
 Ukraine, with a rocket artillery team taking aim at Vladimir Putin's forces. They're called Colson(ph) and use light trucks with missile pods 
 
 mounted on the bed.   
 
The rockets carry a message of retribution. This one signed on behalf of a fallen soldier, from Fuya(ph), from the witch, it says. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Our vehicle is very effective because we can set up quickly, fire, and get away again.   
 
PLEITGEN:  Now they're aiming at Russian positions several miles away. But Russia's artillery is also dangerous and could fire back fast. "It's not 
 
 safe"! He screams.   
 
(on camera):  We have to get out of here as -- faster, we have to get out of here as fast as possible because the Russians might target this position 
 
 after they got hit by the salvo from our rockets. 
 
(voice-over):  Their key to accuracy comes from the air. The drones scopes out the target and then watches as the artillery hits a Russian   military 
 
 repair shop, the unit says.   
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  We are the eyes of the units. We do reconnaissance and then make sure the target gets hit.  
 
PLEITGEN:  The Russians are under such pressure, they've started evacuating tens of thousands of people from Kherson. And the Ukrainians believe Moscow 
 
 is making its unfounded claims about Kyiv preparing to use a so-called dirty bomb because Russia's troops are pinned down in this area.  
 
Colson's(ph) commander believes is only a matter of time before they oust Vladimir Putin's army from here.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  By the end of the year, we believe Kherson will be under Ukrainian flags.  
 
PLEITGEN:  And they hope their unit will make a small difference in the battle for Kherson. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, in the Kherson region, Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)  
 
SOARES:  Well, staying in Ukraine, the country is warning refugees not to return to the country for Winter in order to preserve critical energy 
 
 resources. But in Europe, things are looking slightly less -- and I say slightly more hopeful after months of dire warnings about the energy crunch 
 
 we've been telling you here.  
 
Gas prices are falling sharply to the lowest level they've been in fact since June. This is as gas storage reaches capacity. It is a sign that the 
 
 EU may have stockpiled enough gas to see the bloc through the Winter months. and it comes as the continent experiences milder  temperatures. Our 
 
 Anna Stewart has been following the story right from the beginning. She joins me now here in London.
 
So, Anna, it seems like Europe has more natural gas than it did -- than knows what to do with it, which is a good thing. But I'm pretty sure you're 
 
 going to tell me that's the end of it in terms of being used --   
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER:  Let's enjoy it while we have -- 
 
SOARES:  We will -- 
 
STEWART:  Some good news. And hey, we were looking at a really dire situation a few months before. So actually, it's incredible if you think 
 
 that the EU has gas storage facilities at 90 percent full. The target was 80 percent full by November. So that is phenomenal work.  And this has been 
 
 finding LNG from the suppliers, from the U.S., from Qatar, getting it all in.  
 
And also reducing demand. And a lot of these policies are paying off. That is the good news. There's also the fact that it's simply milder weather 
 
 right now -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  So people aren't using as much gas. And then you have to look at the charm. We can show you where gas prices have gone. And they're now at a 
 
 level we haven't really seen since mid June. Which is when Russia really started to reduce supplies down Nord Stream.  
 
This is good news, but it also actually, Isa, shows the limitations of Europe in terms of gas. Because gas storage facilities at this stage are 94 
 
 percent full. They're nearly at capacity. They've ordered a lot of LNG, and you've got a lot of LNG vessels floating around European waters waiting -- 
 
SOARES:  Looking -- 
 
STEWART:  To be needed at this stage. And so while gas prices are low for delivery for the next month, if you look at December, January, February, 
 
 you start to see prices rise.  
 
SOARES:  Right, so there's a problem of infrastructure. That's something that the EU has to deal with. So viewers watching, thinking, OK, gas prices 
 
 are lower, that's not going to impact us. It's not --  we're not going to see that reflected in our bills, is it?  
 
STEWART:  Unfortunately, I don't think it is. What we're looking at here is a lower price right now in terms of the spot price -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  In for the next month's delivery. We actually saw negative territory for next hour delivery earlier this week. You're not going to see 
 
 that in your bill price either. What we now need to look at actually is worrying about what happens next for Europe. So, this is a good situation 
 
 for now.
 
If it's a mild Winter, if we don't have a cold snap, Europe could get through this Winter fine. But storage facilities will likely be depleted. 
 
 And if you think about where we've got this year, but with Russian gas and Europe relied on Russia for 40 percent of its gas -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  Next year looks trickier.  
 
SOARES:  Right, so you've given me good news and then you take it away. Let's wait -- let's see -- it was a good start. Let's see how of course, 
 
 how this Winter plans out with at least the push that EU has had for the several months now to try and stockpile and get this gas, at least, that's 
 
 worked out. Anna, thank you very much. And still to come tonight.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
(CHEERS) 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  That is the sound of the U.K.'s new prime minister facing parliament for the first time since he sought the top of British politics. 
 
 But it wasn't an entirely positive reception. We'll have more in just a moment. 
 
And then thousands turn out to mark 40 days since the death of a young Iranian woman, and it quickly turned into a protest. We'll show you how the 
 
 unrest is spreading to new groups right across Iran. You are watching CNN.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:15:00]
 
SOARES:  Welcome back. Now, today, the new British Prime Minister received a warm welcome from his party as he arrived in parliament for the first 
 
 time as leader. But soon after he faced a grilling from opposition lawmakers who are demanding an immediate general election and answers to 
 
 the urgent economic problems facing the country. Now, he says economic responsibility is at the heart of his mission. This is what he said.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
RISHI SUNAK, PRIME MINISTER, UNITED KINGDOM:  We will have to take difficult decisions to restore economic stability and confidence. I am the 
 
 first to admit that mistakes were made, and that's the reason I'm standing here. Leadership is not selling fairytales. It is confronting challenges, 
 
 and that is the leadership the British people will get from this government.  
 
(CHEERS) 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  And it comes as Finance Minister Jeremy Hunt announces a key fiscal statement is delayed -- has delayed until November 17th. CNN's 
 
 Bianca Nobilo is here with me to discuss. So, Bianca, first, what did you think of what -- of his performance, his first impression really.  
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  My impression was we're seeing a steep trajectory of progress in terms of his communication style. Think about 
 
 when he first was appointed by the Conservative Party, he gave that slightly bizarre speech at CCHQ, quite awkward. The next day yesterday 
 
 behind the podium was a serious statement-like speech but nothing inspiring.  
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  What we saw today at PMQ, he showed a little bit of charisma. He was smiling at point, crucially, the bench is behind him, were cheering. 
 
 They were there with him and rooting for him to succeed. And given it was his first prime minister's questions, I wouldn't say there was a winner 
 
 today, but it actually felt like a contest. Whereas -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  In previous PMQs, where there was the last day of the Johnson premiership or with Liz Truss, it felt like Starmer, it was just landing 
 
 blow after blow after blow for obvious reasons. Whereas this was more like two individuals that have been a match rhetorically in detail-wise.   
 
SOARES:  And you know, I just need to -- and I was messaging you at the same time this is happening -- 
 
NOBILO:  Yes -- 
 
SOARES:  Because I've never seen, you know, the house of parliament so really so -- 
 
NOBILO:  Yes -- 
 
SOARES:  Boisterous, the support behind him. But he did seem like he brought his A game. At least, quite a combative start for him. But there 
 
 are -- he is facing some calls for an appointment in particular for Suella Braverman. Explain that to our viewers. What's happened here? 
 
NOBILO:  First of all, I 100 percent agree with your characterization because this is as rambunctious -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  And energetic as I've seen the House of Commons in a very long time, specifically the conservative benches, obviously Labor know they're 
 
 doing really well with the public, so they've been in a better mood. But the Conservative Party have been depressed, soporific, kind of head-in-
 
 hands. This was a very different revitalized party that we're seeing. Now, Suella Braverman is the most controversial appointment to Sunak's cabinet -
 
 - a re-appointment, actually -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  Because six days before she was re-appointed, she was sacked by Liz Truss for a security protocol breach. Sending a confidential official 
 
 document from her personal e-mail. And there was more to the firing than that from what I understand. There were disagreements over immigration 
 
 policy and other things, direction of government or lack thereof.  
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
But you can imagine the criticism here. The Home Secretary in charge of the security of the nation resigning because they were guilty of a security 
 
 breach now being brought back, especially when Braverman's endorsement of Sunak over the weekend -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  It was considered to be the instrumental factor that took a lot of momentum away from the Johnson campaign and towards the Sunak campaign. 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  I mean, he was already -- he already had momentum. But it was very -- it was decisive. And it showed the party that he had the support of 
 
 figure heads on the right. So that's why the opposition and the S&amp;P have said you did some kind of backroom deal here. And that doesn't show 
 
 integrity like you're promising.  
 
SOARES:  And this is something that he faced many questions today about, exactly this appointment. Let's talk about some comments that were made by 
 
 the U.K. Foreign Secretary, but it's receiving some sort of backlash here. What exactly did he say? And why are so many people riled up about it?  
 
NOBILO:  James Cleverly, who is the current Foreign Secretary and he's remained in place from Liz Truss to Rishi Sunak. He was speaking to a U.K. 
 
 broadcast to this morning about the Qatar World Cup. The comments he made were saying that because Qatar is a  Muslim country, has made some 
 
 compromises in accommodating people that will be visiting the World Cup and watching as spectators.  
 
That people should be respectful of the country, the faith, the customs when they go. So he's been attacked for suggesting that for example, the 
 
 gay community obviously being homosexual is criminalized in Qatar. And that the suggestion might be that they should make some compromises or show 
 
 respect on their end, change how they would behave, just because they're going to watch the World Cup in Qatar.  
 
And that's been criticized by the U.K. media. But Cleverly did follow that up by saying that they're constantly in dialogue with Qatar, trying to 
 
 underscore why Britain has the values it does. And the freedoms and the democracy and everything that this country allows and why that's the right 
 
 thing to do essentially -- I'm paraphrasing.  
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  But it's obviously caused controversy. And we know the World Cup is already a deeply controversial issue. And in Britain in particular, 
 
 because I think there's a lot of groups and a lot of campaigning for perhaps boycotting or taking a stronger stance because they feel like it 
 
 does a disservice to groups that will be persecuted if they live there.  
 
SOARES:  And we have already been reporting this week when people have been persecuted because of that -- 
 
NOBILO:  Exactly -- 
 
SOARES:  Very reason. Bianca, really appreciate it, thank you very much. Well, in Iran, a devastating attack has left more than a dozen worshippers 
 
 dead. It happened hours ago at a shrine in the southern city of Shiraz. The details at this hour are pretty murky. Iranian media report at least 15 
 
 people were killed and at least 40 others wounded.  
 
A police commander says a lone gunman burst into the shrine and opened fire. But Iranian media report there were three gun men and two are in 
 
 custody. And it says all three are foreign nationals. There's no word yet on motive. Of course, we'll stay on top of that story for you.  
 
To the north, thousands of Iranians turned out Wednesday to mark the traditional 40 days since the death of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini, as it 
 
 quickly evolved into a massive anti-government protest, security forces met them with tear gas as Nada Bashir shows as the protests are now spreading 
 
 to involve workers critical to Iran's economy as well as society.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER (voice-over):  The final resting place of Mahsa Jina Amini. A place of mourning and now of protests. Amini's name has 
 
 become synonymous with a movement that is posing the biggest threat to the Iranian regime in years. Sparked in the wake of the 22-year-old's death 
 
 while in the custody of Iran's notorious morality police.  
 
Detained for allegedly contravening the country's strict dress code. But now, as the Iranian people commemorate 40 days since Amini's death, a 
 
 significant marker of both mourning and remembrance. The movement has grown to become something far more wide-reaching than its initial call for 
 
 women's rights.  
 
FIRUZEH MAHMOUDI, CO-FOUNDER &amp; DIRECTOR, UNITED FOR IRAN:  It was a protest that quickly turned into a movement, an uprising, and some, of course, say 
 
 that there is definitely components of beginning parts of a revolution.  
 
BASHIR (on camera):  And how important is Mahsa Amini's legacy in really driving forward this protest movement?  
 
MAHMOUDI:  Jina's death was a sparkle that led to this mass fire, right? That we've seen throughout the country. That initial protest was not even 
 
 about hijab. It was of course, about that, but that is much more than that. It's about body autonomy. It's about gender equality. It's about basic 
 
 rights. 
 
BASHIR (voice-over):  Amini's death is now remembered alongside a growing list of women and young girls who have lost their lives at the hands of 
 
 Iran's security forces.  
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
Though authorities deny responsibility, disregarding the mounting evidence of the regime's brutal and deadly crackdown on protesters.  
 
TARA SEPEHRI FAR, SENIOR IRAN RESEARCHER, HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH:  We have use of paintball guns, shotguns with metal or plastic pellets, and also 
 
 instances of use of assault weapons, assault rifles, clashing of style weapons or even hand guns that have been documented.  
 
BASHIR:  This, in addition to the mass detention of hundreds, if not thousands of protesters. Six weeks on, however, and the movement isn't 
 
 losing steam. With protests gripping the country's universities and high schools, historic action by teachers, business owners, factory workers, 
 
 even oil refinery workers, the backbone of Iran's economy. 
 
The call for reform and for regime change is only growing louder. Nada Bashir, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES:  Well, in Myanmar, days after a deadly airstrike, the country's military Junta is claiming that it, quote, "never attacks unarmed 
 
 civilians." Rebels in Kachin State say at least 62 people were killed in Sunday's strike on a concert. Speaking to CNN on Wednesday, a military 
 
 spokesperson said the area where the strike was carried out was not a civilian place.  
 
He also claimed that all of the dead or wounded were wearing rebel uniforms. While CNN has not been able to independently verify the claims. 
 
 And these pictures sent to CNN by one of Myanmar's rebel organizations shows graves set to hold victims from the attack. And still to come here 
 
 tonight, hidden from the eyes of the world, but horrific nevertheless.  
 
A Belarusian doctor reveals the trauma of working in a hospital where wave after wave of wounded Russian soldiers were taken in the early days of the 
 
 war. A CNN exclusive report is just ahead. Then as Nigeria battles its deadliest flooding in a decade, we'll have the latest from one of the 
 
 hardest-hit areas.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SOARES:  Welcome back. The living may be envying the dead.  
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
That is how a Belarusian doctor describes the dozens of wounded Russian soldiers he treated during the early days of the Ukraine war. 
 
Obliterated jaws and legs, horrific wounds, life shattered forever streaming into his hospital until he couldn't take it anymore. After 
 
 escaping to Ukrainia (ph) she showed our Melissa Bell the visit, X-rays that tell the story of a war and the fighters who never expected such a 
 
 fate. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  For Andrei, it was the hardest of goodbyes. 
 
"I love you," he tells his daughters as he prepares to swim for his life. 
 
"Is Daddy leaving? asks one. 
 
"Yes, he replies."
 
The young doctor from southern Belarus had just driven his family across the country from their home near the Ukrainian border. Andrei then swam 
 
 into the safety of neighboring Lithuania running from a war that wasn't his.
 
Fleeing with X-rays of some of the Russian soldiers he treated as the war began. The ghosts of Vladimir Putin's war machine.
 
ANDREI (through translator):  I wanted to tell their stories. I just took some evidence to confirm it. But what I took with me could make me liable. 
 
 They can charge me with espionage.
 
BELL:  With the state of the Russian army, its defeats and its casualties a closely guarded secret, these images are a rare window onto Russia's 
 
 catastrophic invasion.
 
On February 24th, the first day of the war, Russian forces landed at this airport on the outskirts of Kyiv. The fight that ensued was brutal. 
 
 Ukrainian counter offensives inflicted devastating casualties on the Russian paratroopers. Many wound up in Mazyr City Hospital in southern 
 
 Belarus.
 
ANDREI (through translator):  Most had blast injuries, injured hips, face, lacerations to the torso area, head, brain injuries. Several had damage to 
 
 their jaws.
 
BELL:  Andrei says that many of the injuries he treated were consistent with soldiers coming under unexpected and chaotic fire power.
 
ANDREI (through translator):  They saw a lot of explosions and couldn't even see who was firing on them. Some of them told us they'd gone through 
 
 hell. They didn't expect what was waiting for them in Ukraine. 
 
They thought they were going in for military exercises. They were mainly angry at the commander who had deceived them, most already were resigned to 
 
 their new reality, losing a finger or a leg.
 
BELL:  The trucks used to transport the wounded shared at the time on social media. Andrei says they arrived at night bringing 30 soldiers on the 
 
 second day of the war, 90 on the third.
 
ANDREI (through translator):  They came from Borodyanka, some from Hostomel and others from Bucha. A number was written on the forehead of each to 
 
 direct them to the right department. At least the ones who were admitted had a good chance of surviving. 
 
There was one guy who was missing his entire lower jaw and he was only complaining that he hadn't eaten or drunk anything for three days.
 
BELL:  But the soldiers kept arriving. Andrei says about 40 a day on average. The wounds easier for him to remember than the names, although 
 
 one, in particular, does stand out.
 
One of the early narratives of the start of the war was the number of commanders that were being lost on the Russian side. Several wound up in 
 
 Mazyr District Hospital, including General Sergei Nyrkov.
 
ANDREI (through translator):  He suffered abdominal trauma from a mine explosion in Chernobyl, so we treated him and then after he was stabilized, 
 
 he was taken away with the other officers. I felt disgust toward these officers. Mainly the feeling was that they were war criminals.
 
BELL:  Mostly Andrei says, the men were ordinary soldiers, very young and inexperienced 18-, 19-, 20-year olds who would spend a couple of days in 
 
 his hospital before being sent back to Russia. Their lives saved but changed forever.
 
ANDREI (through translator):  I had the impression that only a small portion of the soldiers sent actually made it out alive into our hospital. 
 
 I had a feeling that some of the living envied those who had died.
 
BELL:  Andrei is now rebuilding his own life with his family in a European city with what little they could bring. Mainly the X-rays hidden in one of 
 
 his daughter's toys to be brought to safety and now to light -- Melissa Bell, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES:  CNN reached out to the Russian ministry of defense and the Mazyr City Hospital and neither has replied. 
 
The Kremlin says any potential prisoner swap involving U.S. basketball star Brittney Griner can only be negotiated quietly. 
 <br>[14:35:00]
 
SOARES:  It is refusing to comment on a mosque or regional court's decision to uphold her drug smuggling conviction. The U.S. says it will continue 
 
 pressing for her release, calling Tuesday's hearing a sham that will keep her wrongfully detained. 
 
Griner was sentenced to nine years in prison back in August for possessing cannabis oil in her luggage. Her attorney spoke to CNN. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARIA BIAGOVOLINA, GRINER'S ATTORNEY:  There is next step which is called causation (ph) or the second appeal. But normally, we do not expect much 
 
 from this legal steps. So Brittany definitely hopes for this all to happen, yes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  A short time ago, Israeli president Isaac Herzog walked out of talks with Joe Biden at the White House, thanking the U.S. President for 
 
 what he called an open as well as frank discussion. 
 
He said they talked about the nuclear threat from Iran among other concerns as well as Iran's crackdown on internal dissent. Mr. Herzog's visit comes 
 
 as the U.S. and Israel are heading into crucial elections. Jeremy Diamond is live at the White House for us. 
 
Do we know it was said in that frank an open discussion?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  The Israeli president came out and spoke to reporters here briefly after exiting the meeting. He said 
 
 that the main topic of discussion was Iran, that they discussed regional security cooperation in depth. 
 
We also know that their Israeli president was coming here with a focus, which was to talk about Iran's involvement in Russia's invasion of Ukraine, 
 
 which is interesting, of course, because Israel, while it has supported various condemning resolutions at the U.N. Security Council vis-a-vis 
 
 Russia, it has remained neutral for all intents and purposes as it relates to any direct involvement in the conflict, resisting, providing any weapon 
 
 systems, including defensive weapon systems to Ukraine despite requests from Ukraine. 
 
But the Israeli president Isaac Herzog was eager to point out that it has evidence that Israel has evidence of Iran providing, supplying Russia with 
 
 drones, these deadly drones that have been wreaking havoc on civilian targets inside of Ukraine. 
 
We know that there was probably a different ask from the U.S. side to the Israeli in this meeting. That is that President Biden was expected to ask 
 
 Israel to step up its commitments as it relates to Ukraine, to begin to provide some kind of defensive weaponry to Ukraine and play its part in 
 
 this global coalition that President Biden has spent months trying to build and then, of course, to keep together as well. 
 
There was, of course, the broader context here of these upcoming Israeli and U.S. elections, which the Israeli president mentioned, if only to say 
 
 that this partnership between the U.S. and Israel would withstand any political party being in charge, whether in the U.S. or in Israel. 
 
Lastly, I would also note the Israeli president did note that they did discuss the rise in anti-Semitism here in the United States. The Israeli 
 
 president saying that it was something that is very concerning to him and that the two men did discuss that issue as well, in addition to all the 
 
 geopolitics on the table. 
 
SOARES:  There is a lot of the table. Jeremy Diamond, good to see you. Thanks very much, Jeremy. 
 
And still to come tonight, the growing concerns in Nigeria's deadly floods wreak havoc right across the country. That is next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:40:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
SOARES:  The situation in Kampala is still under control. Those are the words of Uganda's health minister, confirming 14 Ebola cases in and around 
 
 the capital. The health minister says there are 109 cases of the rare but deadly disease and 30 deaths in Uganda. 
 
Since the Ebola pandemic was declared in late September some Kampala residents are anxious but they're not panicking just yet. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Never send someone (INAUDIBLE) Ebola but they're here (INAUDIBLE) and the way you see in Kampala, the population, you can never 
 
 know, you can never tell who has Ebola and who doesn't.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I believe the government is doing its very best. Right now, my (INAUDIBLE) and not under tremendous (INAUDIBLE) care because 
 
 of the current outbreak. I think it's being contained very well. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  In Nigeria, residents are grappling with the worst flooding the country has seen in a decade. Hundreds are dead and more than 1 million 
 
 have been displaced so far. There are fears of waterborne diseases breaking out. CNN's Larry Madowo reports from one of the worst affected areas there. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Communities still submerged nearly a month after the flooding began with no end in sight. Boats have 
 
 become the only way to get around much of Bayelsa States in southern Nigeria. The streets have turned to rivers, driving entire communities away 
 
 from their homes.
 
Mama Obi (ph) takes us to what is left over her home. The water is still waist high.
 
MADOWO (voice-over):  "We have really suffered," she says, "tell the government to help us."
 
MADOWO:  Everything you own is here under the water and this your house.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, lots. So everything.
 
MADOWO:  Some are living rough on the streets, washing with this water, cooking with it and bathing in it. Even though people's homes and 
 
 businesses and livelihoods are already submerged, it's still raining and there's more expected. 
 
The Nigerian government is warning this could go on through November. So even more of this.
 
This is Nigeria's worst flooding in a decade. Aniso Handy has remained in his house through it all.
 
ANISO HANDY, FLOOD VICTIM:  Nigerians are used to manage, if not would've all died. We have not seen a situation where people are not cared for. But 
 
 Nigerians care for themselves. We are just like infants that have no father, no mother.
 
MADOWO:  The feeling of abandonment runs deep here. Victims are disappointed with the Nigerian government's response which hasn't declared 
 
 the flood and national emergency.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We're not comfortable and now they fear for (INAUDIBLE) sick.
 
MADOWO:  We're next to the local cemetery and residents have reported seeing bodies floating here in this water. This flood has displaced not 
 
 just the living, also the dead. The floods have affected 33 of Nigeria's 36 states, partly due to well above average rainfall.
 
Bayelsa is among those cut off from the nation with major highways underwater. 
 
The situation has been exacerbated by poor drainage infrastructure and an overflowing dam in neighboring Cameroon but with a warmer climate causing 
 
 more intense rainfall authorities have also blamed it on climate change. Angering some Nigerians.
 
In this community though, there are more short-term consequences. So you are worried about the children mostly.
 
NDIA OKAZI, FLOOD VICTIM:  Yes. My children they're not going to school again. Now when (INAUDIBLE) me.
 
MADOWO:  It's a tough life to navigate for humans and animals alike. But life must go on -- Larry Madowo, CNN, Nigeria.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES:  Plenty of talk but not enough action. Two new reports are highlighting how little nations are doing to deal with the climate crisis. 
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
SOARES:  Analysis conducted by the U.N. says the pledges made by the nations to cut fossil fuel emissions are not enough to keep the planet from 
 
 dangerous global warming. In an annual report by "The Lancet," it finds many nations are still actively encouraging the use of fossil fuels through 
 
 tax breaks and other subsidies. 
 
Let's talk about the impact of all of this with CNN's Tom Sater. 
 
Tom, great to have you on the show. Let's start with the U.N. report. Break it down for us. 
 
What does it say?
 
Are we still on track for that 1.5 degree target that you and I have discussed?
 
TOM SATER, AMS METEOROLOGIST:  This is just another dire report that really defines where we are. We are kicking the can down the road, Isa. This is 
 
 what this really means. Let's talk about what's going on. 
 
We all know we're warming up. The last seven years have been the warmest seven on the planet. Look at what has happened in just the last few years. 
 
 The rainfall we had in Pakistan and South Africa, six one-in-1,000 rain events in the U.S.. Not to talk about the megadrought in Somalia and the 
 
 food insecurity. 
 
How many glaciers have we lost this year?
 
It is getting worse. Most people don't realize what a quarter of a degree means or half a degree. All right, since the beginning of the 1850s and the 
 
 Industrial Revolution, we have warmed the planet up 1.2 degrees. The goal is to get 1.5. It goes all the way back to the Paris agreement. 
 
These countries make these pledges to reduce their emissions. Well, we're are in trouble now. We have got to cut emissions 45 percent in the next 
 
 eight years. This is what the report is telling us. 
 
Global warming, because we are not doing, enough there are some countries, there are a few nations that are making progress. They are kind of reaching 
 
 their pledges. It's hard to tell because governments, the politics changes every two or four or six years. 
 
But we are not doing enough. So we're going to warm up more than twice of what we had. So think of the disasters we've had. You double that, 
 
 hurricanes, typhoons, cyclones, 10 years ago we used to see maybe three or four that would undergo rapid intensification. 
 
Now we're seeing eight, nine, 10 of them every year. All right, 1.5 Celsius is still the goal. But because we're not reaching the goals and countries 
 
 are not pledging enough, we're seeing a larger gap. 
 
COP27 is in Egypt. It's in 1.5 weeks. Last year it was in Glasgow. These countries get together. Because we're not seeing the pledge being reached 
 
 every year, they're going to have to pledge more. 
 
The report goes on to say, listen, if countries continue to incentivize and promote the use of fossil fuels, like this report from "The Lancet," we are 
 
 in big trouble. We have seen an increase of 80 percent of the countries around the world were analyzed. This is something. 
 
These subsidies and tax incentives, $400 billion  in just 2019. That's more than most health care programs around the world. 
 
This is interesting, too, 15 of the world's largest oil and gas companies are set to exceed their share of emissions by the end of the decade, 37 
 
 percent increase in emissions. 
 
How about by 2040?
 
So 103 percent. So we are seeing this around the globe these extreme events. Another dire report that we have got to do more. If we would have 
 
 listened to them 10 years ago, we wouldn't have the problem with the war right now in Ukraine, with Russia cutting off gas. 
 
You can't block the sun. You can't block the wind. So we are well behind the curve here. And it's just another dire report. 
 
SOARES:  Another dire report. We don't have time for today but I do wonder how much the war in Ukraine, of course, has exacerbated that target and 
 
 moved the target away from that target -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SATER:  And increasing the use for coal, too, which --
 
SOARES:  -- indeed, exactly. Exactly. Tom Sater for us there. I appreciate it, thank, you Tom. 
 
The world is a little bit more crowded today and that is a good thing. This story is from my executive producer. Sixteen species of frogs have been 
 
 discovered in Ecuador. They will reside in the cloud forest of the Andes Mountains. 
 
The discovery took place over several missions. It took researchers four years to write up their findings. One of the species has been in resistance 
 
 paying homage to environmental activists who were given their lives protecting nature in Latin America. 
 
Still to come tonight, what this TV star had to say about "Friends, Lovers and the Big Terrible Thing." Matthew Perry has written a memoir by that 
 
 name. That is next. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
SOARES:  Welcome back, everyone. 
 
In the UAE, due to extreme temperatures, the country imports most of the food it consumes. Now the government is investing in greener options to 
 
 produce more food locally. Take a look at how one Abu Dhabi farmer is using smart farming to protect the planet. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  We are changing the way we are looking at farming. We don't use the soil. We don't use pesticides. And we use a much 
 
 lower amount of water.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over):  Jan Prinze (ph) is the head grower at Pure Harvest Smart Farm based in Abu Dhabi, a high tech greenhouse 
 
 committed to year-round sustainable farming in a desert environment. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  At the moment, I'm trying to evaluate the quality of the cocktail tomatoes. We're looking at the green parts. If 
 
 they're completely green. And the color of the tomato, of course. 
 
You have to talk with the estimated plants every day. You have to try to understand what they're telling you. And then we translate that into a 
 
 climate computer.
 
See any problems on the planet. Or everything is OK?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over):  What the plants need is also what the company believes the planets needs, a sustainable solution for farming in 
 
 harsh climates. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  The way we grow our food and vegetables here in the desert is by using climate technology, like cooling, 
 
 dehumidifying, heating to create a comfortable environment for the plants. 
 
We use beneficial insects who eliminate harmful insects. By doing so, we can afford using any pesticides. They are our best workers. And what 
 
 they're doing is pollinating the flowers. 
 
We provide the plant with water and fertilizers based on their needs. So it is much more economic than growing in the soil. This is one complete 
 
 ecosystem here in the greenhouse, all done by nature. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over):  With extreme temperatures during summer months, and a limited amount of arable for traditional farming, growing 
 
 local produce in the UAE year around is challenging. As a result, the country imports 80 percent to 90 percent of the food it consumes, according 
 
 to the USDA. 
 
Pure Harvest wants to change that. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  We believe in Pure Harvest to a certain extent resolving food security issues that I think mainly we are providing 
 
 people with healthy food and vegetables. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over):  Boosting food security in the region is a top priority for the UAE, which is vulnerable to the climate crisis. 
 
 Heightened temperatures could potentially lead to food shortages due to droughts and other extreme weather conditions. 
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over):  Because of this, the government is investing in agrotech companies like Pure Harvest, hoping to increase local 
 
 food production through non traditional farming. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  We have changed the perspective of local feeders, what we are producing here is more nutritious, it's more tasty 
 
 than ever produced here or important products. And I think our consumers have recognized it. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
SOARES:  And finally, "Friends" star Matthew Perry has offered a memoir. As you can see there, "Friends, Lovers and the Big Terrible Thing." Largely 
 
 about his addiction struggles, it also has a few juicy passages being released. 
 
He reminisces about crushing on Jennifer Aniston, making out with Gwyneth Paltrow and about his brief relationship with Julia Roberts. 
 
He says he broke it off with the "Pretty Woman" star because he was afraid she was going to break up with him. 
 
"She might have considered herself slumming it with a TV guy and TV guy was now breaking up with her. I can't begin to describe the look of confusion 
 
 on her face." 
 
And that's tonight's pause for thought. Thanks very much for company. Have a wonderful evening. I shall see you tomorrow. Do stay right here with CNN. 
 
 "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" is up next. 
 
END