Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Rare Protests Erupt Across China Over Zero- COVID Policy; Angry Protesters Challenge Chinese Government as COVID Cases Rise; U.S. Diplomat: Sanctions on Russia have made a Difference; Russian Mothers Launch Petition to Bring Soldiers Home; New York City Struggles with Perception versus Reality of Safety. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired November 28, 2022 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN HOST: Hello and welcome to CNN "Newsroom". I'm Bianca Nobilo in London and Max Foster is off today. Coming up this hour, a rare show of anger on the streets of China as demonstrators denounced the government's zero COVID strategy. We're live in Hong Kong with the very latest.
 
Also heavy hitting teams returned to the pitch in Doha today. We'll have all the World Cup headlines for you live from Qatar. Plus, can the mothers of Russian soldiers make any real change in Ukraine? A closer look at a new petition is coming up. We begin with a stunning protest sweeping across China sparked by the countries strict zero COVID policy. A warning, some of the video is graphic.
 
This is extremely rare, masses of organized people in Beijing, Shanghai and dozens of other cities, angry about rigid lock downs and constant COVID testing. Some openly chanting slogans about freedom and give me liberty or give me death. Chinese police have been able to enforce even violently detaining a BBC journalist in Shanghai, as this video appears to show.
 
The BBC says the police beat, kicked and arrested camera operator Edward Lawrence, who is a very nice man who I know and he has since been released, thankfully. Some protesters have moved beyond challenging their local officials to confronting the central government and President Xi Jinping himself on issues of free speech, democracy and human rights. All of this is COVID cases in China reportedly hit a new record high on Monday.
 
CNN's Ivan Watson joins me live from Hong Kong where protesters gathered for a vigil Monday night. Ivan, obviously, we're seeing solidarity in Hong Kong for the protesters who are out on the streets in China. But how much of a significant challenge do these protests present to Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party?
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it's the single largest kind of nationwide manifestation of discontent that we've really seen in China. There have been, of course, protests in the bank where in the past, when banks have failed, or, you know, creditors haven't been able to get their money back or environmental protests.
 
But this is a series of very spontaneous demonstrations that have broken out in cities across the country, signifying that a portion of the Chinese population is fed up and just doesn't want to take it anymore.
 
The images you're looking at right now, or from a small vigil, one of at least two that took place in Hong Kong. I was at this barely an hour ago, exceedingly rare to see any form of political protest in Hong Kong after the authorities here have crushed opposition political parties, independent media, and effectively banned demonstrations.
 
But the police, while present, did allow these small groups of people to come out and hold up the white pieces of paper that have been a symbol of the protests that we've seen in cities on the Mainland. And I think what that demonstrates is that the protests have inspired people here in a separate territory of China here in Hong Kong, and the authorities have allowed it to take place.
 
Now all of this was inspired by a deadly fire that took place in the Eastern City of Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang region, where there is suspicion that the authorities part of the death toll. There at least 10 people dead was due to the fact that people suspect that the apartment building was locked down.
 
People weren't able to escape from their apartments and thus, a much higher death toll than should have perhaps normally taken place and there had been other incidents, deadly incidents that have taken place. That has been blamed on the very strict COVID prevention measures across the country. Now the spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry was asked about these nationwide protests, and he seemed to deny that they were even happening. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZHAO LIJIAN, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESMAN: What you mentioned does not reflect what actually happened. China has been following the dynamic zero COVID policy and has been making adjustments based on realities on the ground.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WATSON: And again, with the COVID numbers, the official COVID numbers in China, Mainland China continues to grow. So big question about what the authorities are going to do? Will they maintain the lockdowns and further exasperate the public? Will they try to crack down harder on these protests?
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
WATSON: This is something we have not seen before and we just have to watch and see how it plays out.
 
NOBILO: It suddenly - Ivan Watson in Hong Kong thank you now to Ukraine, where the Head of the State Nuclear Energy Company says that Russian forces could be preparing to leave the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant. The facility has been under Russian control since March, and the constant shelling at the plant in the area around it has raised fears of a nuclear accident.
 
The Russian officials in the area deny any withdrawals. They accuse Ukraine of spreading false information. CNN's Sam Kiley is in Zaporizhzhia. Sam, how credible is these reports? It seems that given the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant is the biggest in Europe and it gives Russia this vise grip on Ukraine's energy supply that they would not relinquish it easily.
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I think you're absolutely right there, Bianca. The idea that the Russians would relinquish control over this nuclear power station, which is also a very important fire base for them they are using it or its environment, the nearby town and fields around it as a fire base to attack Ukrainian targets.
 
On the other side of the Dnieper River if they were to abandon it, they would be handing over this nuclear power station which generates 20 percent of the power for the whole country when it's at full capacity back to Ukraine at a time when they're actually trying to cripple the energy production facilities across the whole of Ukraine.
 
Indeed, today or last night, President Zelenskyy warning that they had intelligence that another wave of these cruise missile attacks might be aimed at civilian targets. Civilian targets have predominantly been the targets of these, according to the Ukrainian government statistics of these sorts of attacks. The Ukrainians claiming 32,000 attacks on civilian targets less than 3 percent, they say, of targets outside of the frontline of the military that have been attacked by Russia.
 
So in that context, I think it's very unlikely indeed, that the Russians would want to withdraw from Zaporizhzhia. On top of that, this front line, which has been static for about six months, is anticipating some kind of movement following the Ukrainian recapture of large amount of Kherson Province and Kherson city itself, Bianca.
 
So again, if the Russians moved out, they'd be handing over a bridgehead very important bridgehead for any further Ukrainian Military operations. I think it can be seen as part of the ongoing psychological operations between the two sides, which have focused a lot around Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Sam Kiley, in Zaporizhzhia, thank you so much. The top American diplomat on sanctions policy says U.S. sanctions on Russia have made a real difference on Moscow's war in Ukraine. Those comments come from Ambassador Jim O'Brien, who visited an Odessa's Main port this weekend to highlight President Zelenskyy's grain from Ukraine initiative. O'Brien spoke exclusively with CNN's Matthew Chance.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIM O'BRIEN, HEAD OF U.S. STATE DEPT.'S OFFICE OF SANCTIONS COORDINATION: Before I arrived, the main sanctions program was put in place and I think it's been very effective at what it's designed to do. It's intended to keep Russia it to deny Russia the resources it needs to carry out the war that it wanted to this imperial project of quickly taking over Ukraine, and then being able to assert itself more broadly.
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Right, but it hasn't forced the Kremlin has it to change its policies, to change its behavior?
 
O'BRIEN: Well, I think though, you do see a real difference and most of this credit goes to the Ukrainians. I mean, their courage and ingenuity on the battlefield has been remarkable. But you seem the Kremlin keep changing what its stated aims are? Right, it began with a full scale invasion of Ukraine, an effort to take the capital shifted to a sort of incremental improvement on the land that it had taken before the war and now it's giving that territory back.
 
And so these are real changes in Russian behavior. It's related partly to the sanctions, partly to export controls, and they can't buy the kinds of inputs they need for their military, right to function.
 
CHANCE: Do you ultimately think that the sanctions regime that the United States is imposing on Russia and other countries are as well will force the Kremlin to capitulate or force it to back down in this case?
 
O'BRIEN: I think, well, the most important thing is the courage of Ukrainians and the commitment they're showing on the battlefield. What we have said as a government is we are with Ukraine, from now until the end of this war until Ukraine succeeds and that means, support for the economy, which is also part of what we're doing here to make sure that Ukraine is able to export and are in currency. It means support for humanitarian initiatives, and for the military and sanctions are a piece of that, but there only one piece of it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
NOBILO: That was the ambassador speaking exclusively with CNN's Matthew Chance. The second week of the World Cup in is underway in Qatar and it's time for the round of 16 to start taking shape. Underway right now Garner are taking on South Korea who is looking to move a step closer to reaching the knockout stage for the first time since 2010.
 
And later world number one Brazil face Switzerland, they'll do it without Neymar who's out for the rest of the group stage. And Cristiano Ronaldo will be back as Portugal look to advance with a victory over Uruguay. Let's go now to Amanda Davies, who's at the center of action in Doha, Qatar.
 
Amanda so play kicked off on Monday with a thrilling match between Cameroon and Serbia that ended in a 3-3 draw. There's loads of thrills and drama already on and off the field. And still plenty more on tap to come today.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Absolutely, Bianca just when you thought maybe would use up our quota of fun and excitement over the weekend with that big Moroccan win over Belgium or that heavyweight clash between Germany and Spain. We got that opening encounter today between Cameroon and Serbia two sides who knew they both needed the win. If they wanted to avoid exit from the competition because of defeats in their opening games and you have to hand it to Cameroon.
 
Fighting back from three one down to earn that put on that point and really get their first points at the World Cup since 2002 are dating back 10 World Cup matches. So that one brilliant, even if for both of them really more than a point would have been better in terms of progressing through this competition. But as you mentioned, build up to some big games later as well.
 
The domination of Neymar still in the talk for Brazil against Switzerland despite the fact that he is a player who isn't going to be taking part today Coach TJ says he has a plan. He hasn't been telling us about that plan.
 
He's keeping his cards very close to his chest but we saw in their opening game against Serbia. Richarlison more than happy to step up and share the limelight at the moment his two goals saw him gain 4 million extra followers in the hours after their opening game.
 
Also a lot of talk about 21-year old Real Madrid starlet, Rodrigo for that one but might not be quite such an attacking lineup for Brazil against Switzerland given the football that they play. Ronaldo also back in action later on Monday. Perhaps some of the emotion the heated publicity has gone now.
 
He's made his tournament debut that first game against Garner since that controversial very well publicized exit from Manchester United Portugal, up against an ageing Uruguay side. I think it's fair to say but there are Uruguay side who do not concede goals easily. So it will be fascinating to see whether or not he can make the breakthrough again and add to that goals tally that saw Ronaldo become the first man to score in five straight World Cups.
 
The other quick line to tell you we are hearing from the Iran and the U.S. camps ahead of their clash on Tuesday expected to find out more in terms of the fallout from that social media post by the U.S. are removing the Iran Republic emblem from the flag.
 
NOBILO: We know you will stay on top of it for us. Amanda Davies, thank you so much live from Doha. Much more still to come this out on the World Cup. Amanda will be back in about 15-minutes time with CNN's "World Sport".
 
And still to come on this program. How powerful are Russia's mothers? Some have the ear of President Vladimir Putin but now others have launched a petition demanding the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine. So we'll go live to Moscow for more after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:15:00] NOBILO: How influential are the mothers of Russian soldiers? With the launch of a new petition summon have renewing calls for their sons to come home from Ukraine. You can see the petition here. This is just the latest effort by mothers of Russian soldiers calling for change.
 
It asked for the withdrawal of Russian troops in Ukraine and was launched to coincide with Russian Mother's Day on Sunday. Now it's in Russian but I'll quote a part of it for you. It says, "We're against the participation of our sons, brothers, husbands, fathers in this. Your duty is to protect the rights and freedoms of mothers and children."
 
The petition was launched just two days after President Vladimir Putin met with a group of Russian mothers on Friday. But these are not the same mothers that launched the petition. So let's bring in CNN's Fred Pleitgen and he's live in Moscow this hour for us. Fred tell us how significant the mother's please complaints and petitions are?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think they're very significant. I think it's certainly something that Vladimir Putin has taken not only note of it, but feels that he needs to act on as well. And we saw that on Friday when he met with those mothers of soldiers.
 
Now however, there was a little bit of criticism about that, because there are some big mother's organizations here in this country that traditionally has been very powerful. And they said, look, this is a handpicked a set of mothers that Vladimir Putin met with he feels, they feel that he hasn't met with the bulk of the big organizations that do have a lot of criticism. So they do hold a lot of sway.
 
It's certainly something that was very important to the Kremlin. If we look at the video that we see on our screen now, that meeting that Vladimir Putin had with the mothers of the soldiers that was broadcast on Russian state TV, many, many times that weekend, that week day and then over the weekend as well. So clearly, this is a big deal for the Kremlin.
 
Something very important to show that Vladimir Putin has empathy with these mothers and I think some of the interesting things that we're hearing is that the ones that were there. They weren't necessarily criticizing Russia is what they call the special military operation in Ukraine.
 
It's more about the conditions that many of the mobilized soldiers are in with complaints coming down about lack of food, for instance, bad bass housing, for instance, soldiers being put to the frontline before having adequate training. Those are the things that we're hearing voice and they are being voiced not just by that big mother's organization, but there are a lot of mothers that are coming out and posting internet videos, for instance, calling on Vladimir Putin to take action, Bianca.
 
NOBILO: And Fred, what is the cultural and social influence of these mother's groups like? Is it possible that they would be able to affect some form of change or amelioration of conditions for the soldiers? PLEITGEN: Yes, I think it could have a certain effect, but not a too big effect on all of this. I think one of the things that we're seeing is that, for instance, with the conditions that some of the newly mobilized troops face that there could be changes to that, for instance. Also some group, there's been some mother's groups, who have called for instance, for students to be sent back to their studies to not be mobilized others as well and that has happened in certain instances.
 
And really, traditionally, the mothers of soldiers do have big influence in Russian society. It's something that's been going on really since the war in Afghanistan, but then especially also the war in Chechnya, the soldiers, mothers, there really mobilizing and making a difference now.
 
It can make a difference to the conditions that some of these newly mobilized troops are placed in and of course, can also lead to some of them being sent back home, but in general to the war in Ukraine to what Russia called its special military operation.
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
PLEITGEN: Vladimir Putin was pretty clear in that meeting with the mothers on Friday, that he was not going to change course on that. He said that he believed that what he called the reunification of Donbas with Russia, obviously, meaning the annexation was something that should have happened a lot earlier.
 
He also said that Russia, as he put it is not fighting Ukraine, but those that are arming and supporting Ukraine, obviously, meaning the West. So it seems as though Vladimir Putin believes there's a bigger conflict at hand here. Certainly not showing any signs of backing down, Bianca
 
NOBILO: Fred Pleitgen in Moscow, thank you so much. And Fred also mentions Chechnya, which is interesting and has an increasingly nuanced approach to the invasion in Ukraine. Now, coming up on the show, crime is frequently cited by New York City residents as a real concern for many of the 8.5 million people who live there. But does perception match reality? We'll take a look just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: It's that time of the year again when tourists flocked to New York City to soak up the festive pre-Christmas atmosphere. But the Big Apple is struggling with a wave of street crime from shoplifting to theft to assault. CNN's Jason Carroll has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN U.S. CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Last Saturday night police respond to a triple shooting in Chelsea neighborhood known more for its million dollar condos and trendy restaurant reports of the shooting. Not surprising though to New Yorkers such as Peter Panayiotou. Panayiotou is the owner of Celler 53 Wine and Spirits. And for him crime isn't just something he reads about or sees on the news. CARROLL (on camera): How many times have you been stolen from?
 
PETER PANAYIOTOU, OWNER OF CELLER 53 WINE AND SPIRITS: Every day they come in and try to. I mean they had an incident the other day they came in they arrested a guy in here for some that he did outside. OK, they arrested him they put him on the floor and then three hours later he came back to buy something.
 
CARROLL (voice over): Panayiotou has taken security measures into his own hands. Wine Bottles now glued into place.
 
PANAYIOTOU: Look at this, I mean they can't lift up.
 
CARROLL (voice over): You have to ask for the real one ask for expensive bottles.
 
CARROLL (on camera): Oh, these are empty?
 
PANAYIOTOU: They are all empty. The customers need have to go downstairs and get it for them.
 
CARROLL (voice over): Shoplifting has going to so bad this year. Rite Aid is considering literally putting everything behind showcases. It's already closed at least two of its stores in New York City, a spokeswoman saying in part, in regards to theft, like many in the industry, we are seeing a higher level of brazen shoplifting and organized retail crime.
 
SARON ASSEFA, IT TECHNICIAN, LIVES IN BROOKLYN: I mean it's a little crazy out here.
 
CARROLL (voice over): It's not just the streets in the stores Saron Assefa; an IT technician living in Brooklyn says she started feeling less safe after what happened to her.
 
ASSEFA: I was in the subway and somebody snatched my purse and my shoes. I was--
 
CARROLL (on camera): Your purse and your shoe?
 
CARROLL (voice over): Was some feeling more uneasy. They're turning to New York City's Mayor Eric Adams. Now in office for about a year Adams ran on a platform that he as a Former Cop was best suited to tackle crime.
 
ERIC ADAMS, MAYOR OF NEW YORK CITY: I think the city, the police commission is moving in the right direction.
 
CARROLL (on camera): But are you moving fast enough?
 
ADAMS: Yes, we are. It's been 11 months and when I said I wanted to focus on when I was campaigning shootings and homicides and guns 27 year high and removing guns off our street.
 <br>[08:25:00] CARROLL (voice over): Murders are actually down 13 percent and shootings down 15 percent since Adams took office in January but the numbers of murders and shootings still higher now than they were in 2019 before the pandemic. And overall, Major Crimes are at a 16 year high, such as felony assault, robbery and grand larceny.
 
CARROLL (on camera): Critics say bail reform which went into effect in 2020 is part of the problem. The legislation was designed to help New Yorkers facing non-violent charges who could not afford bail.
 
CARROLL (voice over): But police says it has also resulted in some offenders instead of getting bail. They're released with a ticket and they go out and commit more crimes. Take Darin Mickens a notorious transit and pickpocket offender arrested again this week. He's already been arrested more than 40 times. The Mayor says bail reform was a key issue addressed at a so called Crime Summit held with New York lawmakers his residence Gracie Mansion last month.
 
CARROLL (on camera): So what sort of timeframe here because it sounds like what you're saying is the law does have to be changed. So when you are going to change it? Or how you are going to change it?
 
ADAMS: Well, you know, that's beyond my scope to do so.
 
CARROLL (on camera): But you can still influence the Governor, Right? Or can you influence the Governor? Can you talk to the local District Attorney here and say, look; we've got to fix this? Let's all get together and do something about it.
 
ADAMS: Yes, that's what we did at Gracie Mansion and the Governor has been an amazing partner.
 
CARROLL (on camera): What can we tell people who are looking at this who are going to be watching this and saying, all right, when is the law going to change to stop these repeat offenders from doing what they're doing?
 
ADAMS: What is the combination I must take place? Albany reconvenes in January. In the meantime, my offices have zeroed in on those repeated offenders. And we're having conversations right now with lawmakers to say here's what we're saying how to tweak that, but we can't wait into January. We're doing things right now.
 
CARROLL (voice over): Until things do get better. Shop owner Peter Panayiotou says much of his inventory will stay locked down. And he'll do double duty, keeping one eye on his bottles and the other on everyone else. Jason Carroll CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: I'm Bianca Nobilo in London. Thanks for joining us. "World Sport" with Alex Thomas is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:30:00]