Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Ukraine's Energy Minister Talks to CNN; Iran's Security Forces Open on Protesters in Mahabad; Young Palestinians take up Arms against Israel; Elon Musk could Restore Donald Trump's Twitter Account; CNN Speaks with Swedish Legend Zlatan Ibrahimovic; Sources: Kanye West has Disturbing History of Admiring Hitler. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired October 28, 2022 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN, Abu Dhabi. This is "Connect the World" with Becky Anderson.
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Welcome back! You're watching "Connect the World" of time in the UAE here is 7 pm. Many Ukrainians could 
 
 face another cold night without lights or heat.
 
Energy company officials warning of even longer power outages today after Russian attacks on Ukraine's power sites on Thursday. An official says 
 
 Ukraine's advanced in the Eastern Luhansk region isn't going as fast as they would like due to bad weather and fierce Russian resistance.
 
Vladimir Putin's force is also digging in Kherson as Ukraine prepares for an unexpected counter offensive to retake the occupied city. CNN's Fred 
 
 Pleitgen visited the frontlines of that Southern battle to get you a firsthand look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Across these fields are the Russians that mean we need to get into the 
 
 trenches that sneak their way through this battle space in Southern Ukraine.
 
PLEITGEN (on camera): So this is the actual front line between the Russians and the Ukrainians. They say that the Russians are only a couple of 
 
 kilometers in that direction and obviously there's a lot of shelling that goes on here almost all the time.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): A destroyed tank turret right outside the Ukrainian position shows just how fierce the fighting is here spent cartridges from 
 
 cluster bombs and Russian flak vests also still lying around while some thought the Ukrainians by quickly oust the Russians and take back the key 
 
 city of Kherson and the trench a feeling of stalemate.
 
ALEXANDER, UKRAINIAN ARMY: There is shelling every day. In some places less in some more. We would shoot back, but we have nothing to shoot with here.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Inside the main headquarters, the Unit Commander who goes by the call side Nikofor shows me the gear they used to monitor the 
 
 Russians movements and communicate with their own units. He says they've observed the Russians strengthening their defensive positions here.
 
NIKOFOR, UKRAINIAN ARMY: They have done very well for the moment but with our efforts, we are showing them that we are stronger and are slowly 
 
 pushing them back from our territories.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): This territory was all Russian controlled, but now Ukrainian troops are inching ever closer to Kherson. Having taken out most 
 
 Russian supply routes across the massive Dnipro River Ukraine's President says Moscow's forces need to get out of this region or risk being besieged.
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: They are not ready to go out of Kherson. But they know that if we'll be if we will have success, they will 
 
 not have possibility to exit.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Ukraine's military is pushing Russian troops back on several front lines across the country and as his army displays clear signs 
 
 of weakness, Russian President Vladimir Putin ripping into the U.S. and its allies during his speech in Moscow.
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT: World domination is what the so called West bet its game on. But that game is without doubt, a dangerous bloody, 
 
 and I would say filthy one.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): But the Ukrainian troops in the trenches say they are resisting for their own country's sovereignty and hope to retake much 
 
 of this key area in South Ukraine before winter sets in Fred Pleitgen, CNN in the Kherson region of Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, my next guest says Russia is committing energy genocide by relentlessly attacking Ukrainian power facilities. German Galushchenko is 
 
 Ukraine's Energy Minister and he tells the independent that Russia seeks to sow darkness and despair on Ukrainian people.
 
But despite all of that he has tweeted Thursday at least that Ukraine's energy system remains stable and resilient. German Galushchenko joining me 
 
 now via Skype from Kyiv.
 
As we understood it a couple of days ago, Russia had destroyed some 30 percent of Ukraine's power stations impacting one and a half million people 
 
 in Ukraine. What's the current energy situation today?
 
GERMAN GALUSHCHENKO, UKRAINIAN ENERGY MINISTER: Hello. Yes, it's true that three weeks we are living under massive attacks which are targeting exactly 
 
 and I must say even only on energy infrastructure. And the figures you mentioned is absolutely right.
 
So today, they target something around 30 percent of generation facilities and also from 70 to 40 percent of transmission system but of course the 
 
 issue that today we are trying to repair as quickly as we can.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
GALUSHCHENKO: And so we achieved rather good results on these, but the situation looks like they repeat the shellings, day after day.
 
ANDERSON: Just describe what the impact is on people living across the country?
 
GALUSHCHENKO: Of course, we were obliged to make some extraordinary decision in this situation. First of all, what we did is we close the 
 
 export of electricity from Ukraine to European countries, which was, I must say, very important for us and also for supply electricity to our 
 
 neighbors.
 
Then we ask our people will interiorly to restrict the consumption of electricity. And then we also made some kind of compulsory restriction of 
 
 electricity. Unfortunately, we had to do this due to the deficit and destruction of the lines in the system.
 
ANDERSON: The power supply situation will improve if Kyiv recognizes Russia's illegally annexed regions, those the words of the Former President 
 
 and Prime Minister of Russia, and current Deputy Head of Russia's Security Council, Dmitry Medvedev, your response.
 
GALUSHCHENKO: It's something, let's say, usual rational approach, you know. But, of course, it's even impossible to discuss. And that's - only give me 
 
 an evidence that all these massive attacks on energy infrastructure was aimed to make terror to our people. And that is really an act of terror of 
 
 Russian state.
 
ANDERSON: You've described it as energy genocide, sir.
 
GALUSHCHENKO: Yes, exactly. That's the general - I mean, the main goal of this destruction is, especially on the upcoming winter is to create 
 
 problems for the civilians, that is not a challenge, which I would say, target to some military base and accidentally target the energy 
 
 infrastructure. So they aimed to destroy the energy infrastructure of the country before the winter.
 
ANDERSON: With that remark from Dmitry Medvedev, this does appear to be very intentional on the part of the Kremlin, and you are urging the West to 
 
 provide more help in two ways, one in defending your power infrastructure from these attacks and two for help in rebuilding. So firstly, what do you 
 
 need in defense of this power structure?
 
GALUSHCHENKO: Of course, we are talking about the air protection system, any kind of air protection system, because this shellings not only 
 
 missiles, that is also - this Iranian drones, which they use to attack energy infrastructure. In that situation, so we need all kinds of air 
 
 protection system which exists in the world, I mean, to be safe.
 
From the other hand, we also need to repair quickly so we call it's like good, fast recovery. So we need to do it very quickly. And so we need all 
 
 kinds of equipment, which could be used in this situation? Yes.
 
ANDERSON: Right. Let me just put it to you. You've been appealing for air defense systems now for months, as I understand it; you have some support 
 
 from Germany? And indeed, I think I'm right in saying from - that's sufficient.
 
GALUSHCHENKO: Of course, we need more. We need more. And so as I understand that, at this stage, we already had some - achieved some agreements with 
 
 our partners, and we suppose to receive more this system.
 
ANDERSON: How can Ukraine at this point lean into the European grid to provide support? You say you've stopped exporting energy to Europe. How 
 
 about plugging into the European grid? How does that work?
 
GALUSHCHENKO: So that's after the de-synchronization - European greets, because that was a process which takes for us like long term plans, but it 
 
 happens to after just after 20 on the 21st day war. Today this synchronization helps us technically because it means that we have the 
 
 force of electricity between Ukraine and European --.
 
And we before this massive attacks were really export electricity to Europe. Now we have the possibility in case we need to import electricity 
 
 from Europe and that is one of the solution also on the table.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, it's not a long term solution certainly not when Europe is also facing its own energy crisis of course.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
ANDERSON: Russian gas is still flowing through Ukraine amidst all of this through the - entry point, has there been any talk? Or is there a decision 
 
 about whether Ukraine will shut down that pipeline?
 
GALUSHCHENKO: Today, the gas flows decreased dramatically so it's something around 40 million per day, if you compare it to the contract volumes, which 
 
 is 1.9 million per day. And so of course, we understand that we could also fight the situation when the Russians would stop supplies through Ukrainian 
 
 pipe. I mean, something the same would happen with Nord Stream one and Nord Stream II.
 
ANDERSON: We're running out of time. So I just want to put this very last and very brief question to you. What's your message to the Kremlin at this 
 
 point, and indeed, to the international community?
 
GALUSHCHENKO: So I'm not supposed to have some message to Kremlin because I mean to ask them to stop looking outside or to stop massive attack of 
 
 energy. And that is absolutely a breach of our international laws and rules of war. I think it's no use to do. But what I can ask the international 
 
 community just to support us as you need to have this solidarity, not give the Russians possibility to split us.
 
ANDERSON: Sir, we'll leave it there. We thank you very much indeed for your time. I know that you are a busy man important story thank you.
 
GALUSHCHENKO: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Well, the death toll is rising as Iran continues its brutal crackdown on protesters.
 
Four people were killed on Thursday in Mahabad, which is a Kurdish City in Iran as mourners there gathered at the funeral of a slain protester in a 
 
 region based rights group says Iran is employing weapons of war on demonstrators.
 
Meanwhile, government supporters marched in Iranian cities on Friday the regime calling for nationwide rallies to condemn a deadly attack on a 
 
 Shiraz shrine. Well, a government killed 15 people in that Shrine in Shiraz. ISIS has claimed responsibility for that attack.
 
The Iranian government is now linking protesters to that shrine attack without providing any evidence. CNN's Nada Bashir tracking that part of the 
 
 story for us from London and she joins us now. What do we know at this point?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Look Becky these protests are still gaining momentum and we have seen now clashes between protesters and the Iranian 
 
 security forces that are of course doubling down on their brutal and deadly crackdown on those peaceful protests.
 
And these demonstrations have really been re galvanized this week after mourners commemorated the 40th day since the death of 22-year-old Masha 
 
 Amini as well as Nika Shahkarami, two women who are believed to have lost their lives at the hands of the Iranian authorities.
 
Although the regime denies these allegations, but we've seen hundreds, if not thousands of people turning out chanting death to the dictator, death 
 
 to the regime but also, of course, that familiar chant of women life freedom this protest movement simply isn't losing steam and now of course 
 
 in the City of Mahabad in the West Azerbaijan Province, we've seen these protests and of course these clashes really come to a head over the last 24 
 
 hours take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR (voice over): The sound of gunfire and buildings in flames, scenes of chaos in the Kurdish City of Mahabad as Iran security forces intensify 
 
 an already brutal and deadly crackdown on protesters. Human rights group based in Norway says at least four people were killed on Thursday, after 
 
 security forces opened fire on protesters.
 
Thousands gathered at a demonstration ignited by the killing of Ismail Mauludi a protester who was shot dead by security forces according to 
 
 Amnesty International now reports of so called war weapons being used by Special Forces stationed on rooftops of local government buildings, 
 
 prompting an outcry from human rights groups'.
 
Amnesty saying on Thursday Iran security forces are unlawfully using firearms against thousands in Mahabad. Iran's authorities must immediately 
 
 reign in the security forces. The regime however, says police forces moved in when protesters targeted government buildings after Ismail Mauludi's 
 
 burial ceremony.
 
While state media has claimed without evidence that protesters were acting under the instruction of a separatist terrorist organization, but the 
 
 incident follows a week's long campaign in a state sanctioned violence against peaceful protesters one which is already claimed the lives of at 
 
 least 250 people according to the United Nations.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
JAVAID REHMAN, U.N. SPECIAL RAPPORTEUR ON IRAN: I denounced the crackdown on protesters and I urge that I need authorities to immediately stop the 
 
 use of lethal force and policing peaceful assemblies.
 
BASHIR (voice over): Mahabad is no stranger to unrest. The city has seen periodic riots and protests over the course of the last two decades. But 
 
 now the city has become the latest focal point in a protest movement which has this week been ere-galvanized mourners marking 40 days since the deaths 
 
 of Masha Zhina Amini and Nika Shahkarami, their lives reportedly claimed by the brutality of the Iranian authorities, though government officials deny 
 
 responsibility.
 
And as protests continue to gain momentum, human rights groups are demanding tougher action by the international community. With Amnesty 
 
 warning that global inaction has already come at a tragically high cost.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR: Look Becky, as that reported death toll in Iran continues to rise and as we continue to see the crackdown by the regime intensifying growing 
 
 ever more brutal. UN experts are now calling for an independent international investigation into the use of excessive and lethal force by 
 
 the Iranian security forces Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Nada Bashir reporting for you thank you, Nada! Well, just ahead he's on Israel's most wanted list. CNN gets exclusive access to a 
 
 Palestinian militant as violence escalates in the West Bank, more on that after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Violence between Palestinian militants and Israeli security forces has surged to a level not seen in years. Militants are stepping up 
 
 what they call armed resistance. CNN's Sam Kiley got an exclusive interview with one of the most active militia is known as the Jeanine Brigades have a 
 
 look at this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): For 20 years this camp that Janine Refugee Camp has been a hotbed of violent resistance 
 
 against the Israelis. It's also been the location for the planning of attacks against civilians inside Israel itself. But now there is a step 
 
 change in the atmosphere here, as if something much more violent is to come.
 
KILEY (voice over): On event to find out why, at a clandestine meeting with militants who are at the top of Israel's most wanted list. We meet in a 
 
 shrine to the Palestinians who've been killed fighting Israel. For Israelis this memorializes murder. These men are being hunted they say because 
 
 they're armed and they're plotting attacks against Israel.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
KILEY (voice over): Four militants and a 12 year old boy were killed in this raid at the end of September. This man says he survived an Israeli 
 
 raid on Jenin about a week ago. His comrade was killed.
 
Like him, these are members of the Jenin brigade, a militant group now posing a danger to the Palestinian Authority, as well as to Israel. It's 
 
 unheard of them to break cover for an interview, much less - where they get their guns.
 
KILEY (on camera): And years ago, they had AK-47. And now they've got M- 16s, and this one has Hebrew written on it. So was it stolen from the Israelis?
 
JENIN BRIGADES LEADER: Senior Israeli Commander sealed the weapons and they sell it on the black market. And our resistant fighters buy these weapons 
 
 with their own salaries and money.
 
KILEY (voice over): A 20-20 report from Israel's legislature found that some 400,000 illegal weapons were in Israel, many of them stolen from the 
 
 Israel Defense Forces.
 
KILEY (on camera): So what exactly are your rules of engagement? What are the moral decisions that you take about who you do and who you do not 
 
 attack?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are the resistance and we defend our people and sacred places we don't attack.
 
KILEY (voice over): This has been the deadliest year for Palestinians and Israelis since 2015. At least 123 Palestinians killed outside Gaza, and 21 
 
 Israelis and foreigners. Gunmen from Jenin and nearby have been involved in at least two major atrocities in which eight people was shot dead in and 
 
 near Tel Aviv earlier this year.
 
The expansion of Israeli Jewish settlements on the West Bank and the dwindling faith that a viable Palestinian state can ever emerge from 
 
 Israel's 55 year occupation of the area has fired more Palestinian anger. Grassroots organizations like this Jenin brigade are fiercely opposed to 
 
 the very existence of Israel, and despise the ruling Palestinian Authority for cooperating with the Jewish state.
 
KILEY (on camera): Does that mean that this is a completely hopeless fight that you're fighting because the Israelis, I don't think you can defeat 
 
 them. And they're not going to go anywhere. And they have the international community supporting them.
 
And at the same time, there is support for the idea of a two state solution for the Palestinians for an independent Palestinian state. Is this like a 
 
 kind of death grip that you're in now?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We always aim for victory, not death. Today, the Palestinian people are expecting Jenin refugee camp to spark a regional 
 
 war. There are extensive meetings with the resistance factions in Gaza and the West Bank and with our brothers abroad about starting that fight.
 
KILEY (voice over): Many fighters in this group are from the Palestinian authorities own security forces, supposed to stop attacks on Israel. In a 
 
 new conflagration it will be the Palestinian leadership that could be the first to burn.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Now, I want to bring in Sam Kiley, now who is back from assignment at the London Bureau. Sam, where is this headed?
 
KILEY: Well, since I was in Jenin, there's been a substantial raid in Jenin, one Palestinian killed in that a member of that same group at Jenin 
 
 brigade, and at least four people killed in Nablus in a later raid by Israeli forces.
 
And then there have been rather mysterious and unclear killing of two more, perhaps connected or unconnected, we don't know yet members of the 
 
 Palestinian security forces all of this speaking to this escalation in violence.
 
But in that piece, we talked about why there was this energy behind the violence from the perspective of the militants; they say that they're 
 
 seeing no hope for the young people. They point out that their young people are very highly educated. Most of the Jenin brigade claimed to be 
 
 university graduates, for example, we've got no independent verification of that. But it indicates that they believe that there was no hope for them 
 
 without violence.
 
They are dedicated they say to the destruction of the Jewish state, as such, they're not interested in a two state solution. And that, of course, 
 
 is what the Palestinian leadership is trying to negotiate and that is where those frictions are going to emerge more and more Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, Sam, thank you. Well let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now. Paul Pelosi, husband of 
 
 U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was attacked with a hammer at the couple's California home early on Friday morning.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
ANDERSON: He is expected to make a full recovery. The speaker herself was in Washington at the time of the attack. A spokesman for Nancy Pelosi says 
 
 one person is in custody. North Korea has fired two more short range ballistic missiles off the Korean peninsula.
 
South Korean military officials call it a serious act of provocation. This is Pyongyang's 28th launch this year. South Korean and U.S. officials 
 
 warned North Korea may be preparing for a nuclear test. While Pyongyang says it's deploying tactical nuclear weapons to its field units though CNN 
 
 cannot independently verify that.
 
Paula Hancocks is in Seoul, where she's been asking if attempts to end Kim Jong-Un's weapons program could be a lost cause.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Kim Jong-Un said his five year military plan with the world last year a missile and nuclear wish 
 
 list. Last month he passed a law making his country's nuclear status irreversible. And it is not up for discussion, which raises the question is 
 
 the U.S. push for denuclearization, a relic of the past.
 
ANKIT PANDA, STANTON SENIOR FELLOW, CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE: You simply have to treat North Korea as it is rather than as we 
 
 would like it to be. I think nobody disagrees that denuclearization would be a very desirable outcome on the Korean peninsula. It's simply not a 
 
 tractable one.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): There's a growing body of academics suggesting tacitly accepting North Korea as a nuclear state, as in the case of Israel, 
 
 which claims nuclear ambiguity, while believed to have had nuclear weapons since the 1960s. Or India before it carried out its 1998 nuclear test.
 
JEFFREY LEWIS, PROFESSOR, MIDDLEBUY INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES: In both of those cases, the United States knew those countries had the bomb. 
 
 But the deal was if you don't talk about it, if you don't make an issue of it, if you don't cause political problems, then we just we're not going to 
 
 respond. I think that's the same place we want to get to with North Korea.
 
HANCOCKS (on camera): Pyongyang has claimed that it's deploying tactical nuclear weapons to its field units, a claim that CNN cannot independently 
 
 confirm. But at this point, there's no indication that the Biden Administration is listening to the growing conservative voices here in 
 
 Seoul, calling for U.S. tactical nuclear weapons to be redeployed to the peninsula.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All this talk about tactical nuclear weapons, whether it comes from Putin, or from Kim Jong-Un is irresponsible and dangerous.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Which leaves talk of a possible arms freeze in return for sanctions relief?
 
LEWIS: Often when you're dealing with a difficult problem, a freeze is a really solid way to start things out because it takes a little bit of the 
 
 pressure off and it opens up space for other kinds of negotiations.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Especially if a certain topic is on the table.
 
PANDA: Well, there's a set of cooperative options, which would require the North Koreans being willing to sit down at the table and talk about some of 
 
 these things with us. I don't think in the current environment that we are really close to sitting down with the North Koreans.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If Americans want to talk about denuclearization, they are not going to talk. And if Americans are not talking, they will launch 
 
 more and more missiles and better and better missiles.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Paula Hancocks, CNN Seoul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Up next on "Connect the World", Twitter has a new owner who says he wants a new policy on free speech. Could that mean for example, Donald 
 
 Trump back on the platform? Plus Guns and God, two of the polarizing issue shaping Brazil's crucial presidential runoff election on Sunday; we're live 
 
 in Sao Paulo for you.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back, I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, its half past seven, you're watching "Connect the World". At a price of $44 billion, Elon 
 
 Musk now owns Twitter. The tech billionaire admits he overpaid for the company but promises to make changes to make it more profitable.
 
Well sources say Musk immediately fired three top executives on Thursday, including Twitter CEO. And he says more layoffs are coming but the biggest 
 
 question is what he will do about censorship on the platform. Musk has said he thinks it was a mistake.
 
For example, for Twitter to ban Donald Trump but also says Twitter cannot become in his words a free for all hellscape. Well, let's bring in CNN 
 
 Business Senior Media Reporter Oliver Darcy and typical Elon Musk, slightly odd style. He tweeted the bird is freed, which Oliver means what exactly do 
 
 you think?
 
OLIVER DARCY, CNN SENIOR MEDIA REPORTER: It's unclear, like a lot of things happening at Twitter exactly what is, what that means and what's going on. 
 
 You know, as you said, he fired the executive team yesterday when he took over the platform. But employees are relatively in the dark, you know, a 
 
 memo announcing the changes didn't go out last night, they're still waiting for an employee meeting.
 
And so I think uncertainty is certainly in the air over at Twitter headquarters. I think if you read the tea leaves, it's pretty obvious what 
 
 Musk is going to do or at least what direction he's going to go in, right. He has been very public and criticizing Twitter saying that they have 
 
 banned people too often for things and he said he's not a fan of the permanent ban.
 
So I think when you're talking about former President Donald Trump and some of these other people who have been booted from the platform, you can 
 
 expect that they'll probably be allowed on and sometime in the future. And then also, Twitter has implemented a lot of rules in the last few years to 
 
 curb hate speech to curb misinformation.
 
And so I think you can also expect to see that those rules are eroded a little bit rolled back. What that means for the platform, of course, is 
 
 still it's still not known. Musk has said he doesn't want it to be a hellscape. But when you're rolling back some of those rules, it's hard to 
 
 see how the whole platform doesn't descend into chaos really.
 
ANDERSON: Well, the company is going to be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange no longer trading and therefore no oversight and accountability by 
 
 shareholders going forward. The big question many people will ask is will we see Donald Trump who had 88 million followers before being banned in the 
 
 wake of the January the sixth attack on the Capitol coming back?
 
Do we know at this point, categorically and the timing of this for those who are concerned about Twitter becoming a hellscape? Only 11 days away 
 
 from the midterm elections, the timing will be concerning for many people.
 
DARCY: Yes, especially if Trump is allowed back on the platform and start spreading misinformation, you know, I think that will concern a lot of 
 
 people right before the midterm elections. And it's not clear, you know, you've lost the executive team.
 
And so it's, I think, unclear to a lot of people who's really running the day-to-day operations outside Elon Musk and no one knows what he's really 
 
 doing. So there's a lot of confusion. I do think you can expect at some point, the former president to be allowed back on the platform is just a 
 
 matter of time.
 
ANDERSON: Oliver, thank you.
 
DARCY: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Well, I have a partisan politics wreaking havoc around the world in Brazil this weekend. That tension is coming to a head. Voters there are 
 
 casting ballots on Sunday and what is a high stakes presidential runoff election.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
ANDERSON: And it is far right incumbent Jair Bolsonaro against the leftist former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva after contentious and violent 
 
 campaign season, some polling shows that the race is tight, fueling fears of more unrest to come.
 
CNN's Paula Newton is in Sao Paulo, Brazil for us ahead of what is an extremely consequential vote. I mean, arguably the most consequential in 
 
 this democracy's history. This is this has been really polarizing voters, very divided particularly on the issues of guns for example, what's the 
 
 atmosphere like and the security ahead of Sunday's vote?
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Incredibly tense Becky, and as you were saying, we say that all the time right and the election is divisive here 
 
 you can really feel this tension. And you can feel it most in those candidates trying to get mileage out of the so-called cultural wars, take a 
 
 listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON (voice over): Millions more in Brazil now are armed and ready, ready to load, aim and fire. Gun ownership who can own them and why people need 
 
 them has become an election issue. And it's the President himself, Jair Bolsonaro who wants more Brazilians to bear arms, has loosened strict gun 
 
 ownership laws and made promises of more gun rights to come.
 
Win or lose, Bolsonaro's armed masses aren't going anywhere. One of the owners of this gun club tells us Bolsonaro is the best gun salesman he's 
 
 ever had.
 
DANIEL PAZZINI, GUN OWNER: He physically basically did free advertising, encouraging people to buy guns and defend them that way.
 
NEWTON (voice over): Daniel Pazzini tells me he believes Bolsonaro's opponent, former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva may try to crack down 
 
 on gun ownership if he wins, doubts it will work, but like most gun owners, he's not chancing it. He's voting for Bolsonaro, many devout evangelicals 
 
 to our faithful to God and Bolsonaro.
 
Pastor Odilon Santos says it is his right to take the stand on politics and influence others in his battle against abortion, gay rights, drug 
 
 legalization.
 
ODILON SANTOS, PASTOR: Our current president has an agenda aimed at protecting all of that those principles, which are a rule of faith and our 
 
 practice.
 
NEWTON (voice over): As for Lula, he doesn't trust him, even though he wrote an open letter to evangelicals saying he wouldn't touch religious 
 
 freedoms.
 
SANTOS: His very public stance is that he will regulate not just the church but a lot of things including the media and social media.
 
NEWTON (voice over): To be clear, Lulu has never said he will restrict the media guns or religious freedom, which brings us to the issue of 
 
 misinformation. As presidential supporters at this rally claim Lula will separate Brazilians from their creator, they accuse judges and bureaucrats 
 
 of shutting down free speech with new regulations aimed at stopping the spread of false information. Bolsonaro's son tells us his father is 
 
 defending freedom and will fight what he calls censorship.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's unbelievable. They just say this is fake news. This is anti-democratic as they arrest you.
 
NEWTON (voice over): Lula meantime, campaigns on reversing Bolsonaro's influence on social issues, which he says have ruined Brazil. Believe me, 
 
 he says, we are going to revive this country. In this tight presidential run-off, it has been a ballot box trifecta, Guns, God and so called fake 
 
 news, where voters stand on each contentious issue will shape this country's future.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: And tonight, we are getting ready for a face-to-face debate between the two presidential candidates. No doubt the fact checkers there will be 
 
 getting a workout. But I have to tell you Becky, it really is really, really interesting taking in more in-depth look in these issues.
 
Because they have become more polarizing and also highly politicized as if believing one way or another about what should be done about gun control or 
 
 not or which religion you happen to adhere to also tends to brand you as either someone from the political left or the political right. Becky.
 
ANDERSON: It's fascinating, Paula, good to have you there. Thank you very much indeed. Coming up--
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZLATAN IBRAHIMOVIC, SWEDISH FOOTBALL PLAYER: And unfortunately, in Italy is not under same conditions. But still we're pro players and the ball is 
 
 still around, run thing, and we were doing the same thing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, money not a problem to Zlatan Ibrahimovic, listen to our interview with the Swedish superstar after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: We are getting ever closer to the biggest sporting event this region has ever seen. The FIFA World Cup kicks-off in Qatar on November the 
 
 20th. But just three days before that all eyes will be on its neighbor here the United Arab Emirates as it plays host to the Dubai globe soccer awards.
 
Now, in its 13th edition, the ceremony recognizes the best footballers, managers and teams that the game has to offer. And this year some major 
 
 players will be in town amongst those nominated for men's Player of the Year.
 
Our Premier League stars earning Haaland and Mohamed Salah. While in the women's category Spanish midfielder Alexia Putellas and England defender 
 
 Lucy Bronze in contention and you can check out more of the nominees at www.globes soccer.com.
 
And amongst those awards this year, a new category which is CNN's off the pitch award and that is for charitable work foundation work by a team 
 
 player or foundation. But one player who has certainly won enough awards during his career is the icon that is Zlatan Ibrahimovic. The Swedish board 
 
 has done it all in the beautiful game.
 
He's collected league titles in France, Italy and Spain and is paid for some of the biggest teams in European football. Last year he helped his 
 
 current team, AC Milan to success in the Serie A.
 
Well when I sat down with him recently he told me who he thinks the biggest challenges are this year, he also answered what is a burning question. When 
 
 does the 41 year old plan to finally hang up his boots? Have a listen to our discussion.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IBRAHIMOVIC: I think this season we are many teams in front that are battling for the first position. But we just have to keep going, keep 
 
 winning the games, keep playing the way we're doing and to grow to become better and really achieve what we did last year and to repeat the 
 
 championship so that would be amazing and nothing the mentality is there.
 
And we know what we have to do to come in the first position because we did it last year. So we just have to work hard and believe.
 
ANDERSON: AC Milan have a proud history in Champions League. The team's last win there was 2007. Does that to a certain extent show how far off the 
 
 pace they are at this point?
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
IBRAHIMOVIC: But we have to be realistic here two years ago, this team Milan, I mean, 95 percent of the players never play Champions League. And 
 
 my team is a young team. They just - this is the second year in Europe for them and just won the championship in Italy. So it's a growing team.
 
And obviously, we want to do good in Europe and with the history of the club, we want our match that in today's present times.
 
ANDERSON: It's really interesting, isn't it? Because Italian football isn't a wash with as much money as the game is in other leagues, particularly the 
 
 Premier League, foreign owners muscling up and it muscling in and driving up the cost of players and their wages.
 
You played for one of those big teams, of course in France, for PSG. I wonder as a businessman, is this money good for the game? Or is it 
 
 strangling competition at this point? What your personal sense?
 
IBRAHIMOVIC: Money brings possibilities, money that brings alternatives that not maybe other ones cannot bring. And the hype in Premier League is 
 
 much bigger than the Seria A and that's why the economy is much bigger there.
 
So they have the possibilities to bring the big talents, the best players and Italy is not maybe on the same level, it makes it exciting also, 
 
 because becomes a challenge for the Italian clubs to be the other clubs. And I mean, new money, I think is good because it becomes a domino effect.
 
Because - let's say the lower teams have the possibility to make big moves. And unfortunately, in Italy is not to the same conditions. But still, we're 
 
 pro players and the ball is still around, run thing, and we were doing the same thing.
 
ANDERSON: Are you still enjoying the game?
 
IBRAHIMOVIC: I am I am, I have a big passion for my game. Unfortunately, I'm injured at the moment. And I'm doing this recovery. And every time I 
 
 come on a football field, I'm like a little kid that just want to play football, where you bring me back 20 years and the ball is in the middle. 
 
 And let's have fun.
 
So I have a different situation now with my age and with the teammates I have. But I'm enjoying every day because I think when you stop football, 
 
 you will miss it so much that you don't want to have any regrets saying, I should have kept playing. So I'm trying to stay at the level with these 
 
 young guys working hard and just to keep the rhythm, which is not easy.
 
ANDERSON: I'm sure it's not your 41; it's amazing that he's still playing at the top of your game, Champions League. It's you know, - I guess most 
 
 people are going to want to know what the secret is. What is the secret Zlatan?
 
IBRAHIMOVIC: I think in my case, I have this drive. I want to become better every day. I have a mentality that if I don't work hard enough, I'm not I'm 
 
 not feeling good. It brings you to a level where you challenge your body because it's all about challenging yourself. How far can you reach? How far 
 
 can you take your body and like you said, I'm 41 years old, and I'm still on this level. And my mentality is very strong, because I demand a lot, not 
 
 only for myself, but also for my teammates.
 
ANDERSON: When you were at Manchester United, you had an injury, which would have ended most people's careers at that age. I just want to know, 
 
 how did you get through that? How do you get through the months of solitude and come out even stronger at the other end?
 
IBRAHIMOVIC: First I was little bit afraid because I didn't really know if I could come back or what would happen. But slowly I took it day-by-day, I 
 
 didn't look in front. I just accepted the situation and I think was more a mental thing where I had to keep calm, keep patient and let's say do a 
 
 boring training.
 
I didn't get a lot of adrenaline out of the training. And slowly, slowly I became stronger. I came closer to the field. And then in the end, I was 
 
 there in the middle of everybody.
 
ANDERSON: What's the future for you? I mean, I spoke to the club CEO this time last year and he said that he hoped you would end you're playing 
 
 career with the club. I mean, what's the future if you may?
 
IBRAHIMOVIC: I mean I want to enjoy as long as possible. But I want to feel good. Also, I want to feel healthy the last six months from last season, I 
 
 wasn't feeling good. My objective was to win the competition. That was everything what for now I want to feel good.
 
I want to be healthy and when I'm on that level, then I keep playing and see how far I can take it. But I'm not here because of my name or because 
 
 of what I did before. I'm here because what I'm supposed to do.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
IBRAHIMOVIC: So as long as I can produce results, I will still play. The day I slowed down, I want the people around me to be honest and say it's 
 
 slowing down and then I'll be realistic and said, and then I'm done.
 
ANDERSON: But that isn't now. That's what you're telling me. That isn't now.
 
IBRAHIMOVIC: We're not there yet.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, some of those shots, some of that drama on the pitch is magical. And to still be doing that at 41 is remarkable. You can read a lot 
 
 more about what Zlatan had to say about his club and its future at cnn.com/sport.
 
He certainly always has plenty to say. Now we are learning disturbing new details about Kanye West. Sources say his fascination with Adolf Hitler 
 
 created a hostile work environment; an exclusive report from CNN is just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: CNN has learned disturbing new information about Ye, the rapper formerly known as Kanye West. Several people close to him say that he has 
 
 admired Adolf Hitler for years. CNN's Chloe Melas has more in what is this exclusive report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER (voice over): CNN has exclusively learned from several people once close to Kanye West, that he has long been 
 
 fascinated with Adolf Hitler, a business executive who worked with West told CNN, the artists created a hostile work environment over his obsession 
 
 with Hitler.
 
And spoke openly about reading Hitler's manifesto, Mein Kampf, saying "he would praise Hitler by saying how incredible it was that he was able to 
 
 accumulate so much power and would talk about all the great things he and the Nazi Party achieved for the German people".
 
That same executive reached a settlement with West and his companies which CNN has reviewed according to the agreement Western IP executive's 
 
 allegations. According to four sources who spoke with CNN, West who now goes by Ye even suggested naming his album after the Nazi leader in 2018.
 
Universal Music Group which owns Def Jam records set in a statement to CNN that its relationship with West ended last year, writing quote, "There is 
 
 no place for anti-Semitism in our society. We are deeply committed to combating anti-Semitism and every other form of prejudice".
 
These revelations come just weeks after West tweeted he was "going death con 3 on Jewish people, resulting in Twitter locking his account. A former 
 
 TMZ staffer Van Lathan Jr., claims West made anti-Semitic comments during a 2018 interview.
 
VAN LATHAN JR. FORMER TMZ EMPLOYEE: He said something like I love Hitler. I love Nazis. Something to that effect when he was there, and they took it 
 
 out of the interview. One of the producers at TMZ actually stood up and said, I'm Jewish and that is offensive to me what you just said.
 
MELAS (voice over): A source that was at the TMZ interview told CNN West had favorably referenced Hitler. Lathan says TMZ took the comments out of 
 
 the interview. CNN has reached out to TMZ, but did not get a reply.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
MELAS (voice over): In that same interview West declared slavery was a choice. And earlier this month West caused offense when he wore a White 
 
 Lives Matter T-shirt at a runway show for his fashion brand. Some consequences of West comments were seen last weekend when a group of 
 
 demonstrators appeared with this banner on a freeway overpass in Los Angeles.
 
LZ GRANDERSON, LOS ANGELES TIMES OP-ED COLUMNIST: With everything we know that's going on in terms of hate crimes in terms of anti-Semitism, in terms 
 
 of racism, we're in a climate right now. That's very, very tense.
 
MELAS (voice over): West brand is being hit hard.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I can say anti-Semitic things and Adidas can't drop me.
 
MELAS (voice over): Earlier this week Adidas drop West. The German sportswear brand says the loss of its lucrative Yeezy collaboration is 
 
 expected to cost them up to $250 million in its fourth quarter.
 
TED DEUTCH, CEO, AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE: Jew hatred is on the rise in this country. And what this whole Kanye episode shows is that we need to 
 
 take it seriously.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: That was Chloe Melas reporting. CNN has reached out to West for comment has not as yet heard back. That's it from this team. "One World" 
 
 with Zain Asher is up next, don't go away.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END