Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Netanyahu Leads In Election Exit Polls; South Korean Military Fires Three Air-To-Surface Missiles In Response To North Korean Launch; Grieving Families Identify Belongings Left Behind. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired November 02, 2022 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:27]
 
ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Welcome to our viewers from all around the world. I'm Anna Coren live from Hong Kong. Ahead on the CNN NEWSROOM. Riding the coattails of far-right and ultra orthodox allies. Benjamin Netanyahu says he's on the cusp of a huge victory in Israel. But Yair Lapid urges patience until all the votes are counted. We're live in Jerusalem.
 
Iran prepping to send 1000 more weapons to Russia including precision guided ballistic missiles. How that could change the dynamic on the battlefield in Ukraine. We're live in Kyiv.
 
Plus, remembering the victims. CNN speaks exclusively with friends of some of those killed in South Korea's Halloween crush.
 
Well, final results from the Israeli election could be released in the coming day but exit polls show former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is poised to pull off yet another comeback by the narrowest of margins after a surge of support from the ultra nationalist far- right wing. The former ruling party Likud is already celebrating its likely return to power. Netanyahu issued this message earlier.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMING NETANYAHU, FORMER ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): One thing is already clear, our way, the Likud's way has proven itself. I remind you that from 52 seats in the last election we are now on the verge of a very big victory.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Well, Netanyahu is likely triumph is leading to major worries about the far-right parties he's aligning himself with, which are also acting like they've already won. The Religious Zionist Jewish power alliance will have more than doubled its representation in the Knesset if the Israeli television exit polls turn out to be correct. And the far-right support is essential for Netanyahu alliance to hit the magic number of 61 seats needed for a parliamentary majority. 
 
But the acting Prime Minister Yair Lapid who heads up the anti- Netanyahu block in red says it's too soon to give up hope, even though his block has only 54 projected seats.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YAIR LAPID, ACTING ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): This night may go on for two days until the last envelope is counted. Nothing is over close. We will wait patiently even if we don't have patience or a final data.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Well, journalist Neri Zilber is covering this live from Jerusalem and joins us now. Neri, do we think that the exit polls are correct?
 
NERI ZILBER, JOURNALIST: Well, good morning, Anna. It's looking like the exit polls for the first time really seem to be correct. As of 8:00 in the morning Israel time, about 62 of the actual votes, the actual votes being counted seem to uphold what the exit polls showed us just a few hours ago last night, which was that Netanyahu and his right-wing allies are looking at a one or two seat parliamentary majority, which should be just enough to bring Netanyahu back to the prime minister's office at the head of, as you said, a likely right wing, if not a far-right government here in Israel.
 
COREN: Netanyahu, as you say, has formed this right-wing alliance with some ultranationalist parties. I mean, as you say, this could be the most right-wing government in Israeli history. How does that change the landscape on the ground?
 
ZILBER: Well, it has a long list of policy agenda items that it -- on the campaign trail that it would fulfill. But it's worth mentioning that Netanyahu's far-right allies, the Religious Zionist Party and its sub faction, the Jewish power party are quite adamant that they want to wholesale reforms of Israel's -- say Livefyre rules for the West Bank vis-a-vis Palestinians, the independence of the Israeli judiciary say the Supreme Court and the attorney general deportation of those deemed disloyal to the Israeli state, and so on and so forth.
 
So in terms of actual policy prescriptions, this may very well be Israel's most right-wing government. We have to counsel, caution and patience. All the votes need to be counted. And then Netanyahu will be given the mandate as it's put here to form a government and then most likely he will go to the easiest option which will be this far-right government
 <br>[02:05:08]
 
COREN: Neri Zilber joining us from Jerusalem. We appreciate the updates. Many thanks. Well, I now want to bring in veteran Israeli political analyst Gil Hoffman who is a political strategy professor at Israel's College of Management. Gil, Great to have you with us. Will Netanyahu return to power and will this be a fragile alliance?
 
GIL HOFFMAN, POLITICAL STRATEGY PROFESSOR, ISRAEL'S COLLEGE OF MANAGEMENT: The numbers this morning, Anna, showing already with 62 percent of the votes that Netanyahu has gotten enough seats to form a stable government indicate that there doesn't seem to be another option at all right now. I wouldn't count out him forming a government with other parties more to the center that ruled out forming an alliance with him before.
 
But it could indeed, as you said, be the most right-wing government in Israel's history.
 
COREN: So Gil, what happens to the corruption charges that Netanyahu is facing?
 
HOFFMAN: Well, the legal system in Israel works very slowly. His trial will be ongoing. He has promised that he won't take steps that would harm the legal establishment to the point of affecting him personally. And I know that the media will hold them accountable and not let them do it.
 
COREN: OK. This could be as we have established one of the most right- wing governments in Israeli history. Why is that there's such a surge in ultranationalist sentiment in Israel at the moment?
 
HOFFMAN: You need to ask the Palestinian Authority why they didn't gain control over the lion's den terrorist organization in the West Bank that was committing terrorist attacks that pushed Israelis right word. There were terrorist attacks in April that already led to this government spiraling out of control and losing power. And now they've brought Netanyahu and parties further to the right to power because Israelis were afraid for their safety and security. 
 
Every election that there has -- that has happened the mid-terrorist attacks has led to Israelis moving right word. Israel left those West Bank cities in the Oslo Accords in the mid 1990s. The Palestinian Authority was supposed to gain control, and they failed. And this is the result.
 
COREN: But Gil, some of the statements, some of the policies from these ultranationalist parties are pretty frightening. You have to admit, you know, the time has come for us to be the landlords of our country. And then the public voted for a Jewish identity. That does not bode well for people like Arab Israelis who are also citizens of Israel.
 
HOFFMAN: You're right. And well, Ben-Gvir, the leader of the Jewish Power Party did moderate his views during the election campaign which resulted in him gaining more support. Now we'll see what he does. Is he really going to stay moderate or was that a political tactic? His victory speech last night was an indication of the ladder.
 
COREN: But Gil, as an Israeli citizen, are you concerned as to where your country is heading?
 
HOFFMAN: Of course, everyone needs to be concerned here. And I'd like to believe, though Netanyahu would keep the promise that he made in his election speech to serve everyone. And his image around the world is a lot more extreme than it's been in practice. He has not been a war monger over the test of time. And some of the more extreme statements he made during the election campaigns he never implemented. And I wouldn't take too seriously what politicians say just ahead of an election.
 
COREN: Gil, I guess what could throw a spanner in the works for Bibi is the Arab party Balad. That's according to some analysts. If it reaches the threshold, it could reduce Bibi's lead and potentially deprive his block of a majority. What's the likelihood of that?
 
HOFFMAN: Well, when I went to bed, it was looking pretty likely. And when I woke up, it wasn't looking pretty likely. But it does happen often that the votes in the north and south of this country where there's a higher Arab population are counted last because the way it works here is that our elections, our proof meaning actual human beings vote with envelopes and pieces of paper and no computers and are counted by actual human beings.
 
So, it could very well be that this last third of the voting would bring all three Arab parties above the electoral threshold. And so the night is still young, you never know.
 
COREN: Yes, that's right. It's really early where you are. Gil Hoffman, we certainly appreciate your perspective. Thank you.
 
HOFFMAN: Pleasure.
 <br>[02:00:05]
 
COREN: Well, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has finally broken his silence days after losing his reelection bid to leftist former leader Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. Well, Mr. Bolsonaro gave his speech from the presidential palace on Tuesday where he vowed to abide by the constitution. He notably did not explicitly concede defeat. But the far-right leader's chief of staff says he's given -- been given the green light to work with the incoming government signaling that Mr. Bolsonaro's cooperation with the transfer of power.
 
Well, Brazil's Supreme Court says the outgoing president effectively acknowledged his loss. But as CNN's Paula Newton reports, some Bolsonaro supporters are not convinced.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
PAUL NEWTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): As President Jair Bolsonaro prepared to finally break his silence police forces across the country moved to break up hundreds of blockades. Snarling traffic, slowing supply routes and rattling already frayed nerves. 
 
Police were acting on orders to use force, orders that never came from Bolsonaro himself. Instead, in a terse two-minute statement, he said he would respect the constitution. But he neither admitted defeat nor recognize the results of the election. And had this to say to supporters blocking roads across the country.
 
JAIR BOLSONARO, PRESIDENT OF BRAZIL (through translator): Peaceful demonstrations will always be well convert. Our methods could not be those of the left like property invasion, destruction of goods and restrictions on the rights to come and go. NEWTON: On the barricades, some of the protesters mounting insurgent campaigns nationwide had this to say.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): This was a statement where he didn't say anything conclusive. It gives us the impression that there was something wrong with the elections. That is a plus for us to continue our stand and keep protesting.
 
NEWTON: Many here say they are committed to a patriotic cause standing up for the president they elected.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Country and freedom, just that. We don't accept those who are not just us but a large part of Brazilian population.
 
NEWTON: These protests, sporadic, unpredictable and yet effective, are taking a damaging toll on this fragile economy and more. This trucker was stuck on the road overnight and his wife fell ill and had to be taken to hospital.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Personally, I'm against this. The people have made their choice. If they want it to lock things down they shouldn't do it to business. People have to work.
 
COREN (on camera): Even among officials that back Bolsonaro, there is a great reluctance to support any kind of civil disobedience. It's the reason that they have ordered these blockades to end even if police have to use force. They do not believe that these kinds of protests will resolve any of the division in the country.
 
RODRIGO GARCIA, SAO PAULO GOVERNOR (through translator): There will not be a demonstration or a riot that will make society not recognize the result of the pause to the victors, the mandate to the losers the acknowledgement of defeat.
 
NEWTON (voice over): After a bruising campaign and a vague signal from Bolsonaro that he will give up power to President-elect Lula de Silva, Brazil seems destined for more political division. Now playing out on its streets and jeopardizing an already tense transfer of power.
 
Paula Newton, CNN Sao Paulo, Brazil.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: South Korean officials say they find three air-to-surface missiles in response to a series of North Korean missile launches just hours ago. The military says it carried out precision strikes targeting the international waters near the area where one of the North Korean missiles struck. 
 
Early Wednesday Pyongyang launched 10 missiles of various types, including three ballistic missiles. The South Korean president says the launches were effective territorial encroachment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KANG SHIN-CHUL, JCS DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS (through translator): This missile launch marks the first time since the division of the peninsula that has landed near our territorial waters south of the Northern Limit Line. It's very rare and we can never tolerate it. Our military will firmly respond to it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: The launchers follow warnings from Pyongyang on Monday for the U.S. and South Korea to stop the large scale joint military operations which began this week.
 
Russia could soon get a substantial boost on the battlefield. As we learn Iran is preparing to send the country more weapons. Western officials tell CNN about 1000 additional weapons are expected to be sent to Russia. Well that would include for the first time advanced precision guided missiles along with more attack drones. Meantime Ukraine says Russian forces are keeping up their barrage of artillery and rocket attacks on the frontlines of the war with parts of the Donetsk region among the hardest hit.
 <br>[02:15:10]
 
Ukraine says more than 50 settlements were hit in 24 hours from Kharkiv in the north of Zaporizhzhia in the south.
 
Well, CNN correspondents tracking all the developments. Salma Abdelaziz is standing by in Kyiv. And Clare Sebastian is live from London. Salma, let's start with you, please tell us what's the latest on the ground.
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN REPORTER: Absolutely. I'm going to start by speaking about Kherson in particular. That's really the next step in the counteroffensive for Ukrainian forces. It's absolutely a crucial city, both sides reporting the intensification of fighting there. This has been gearing up for weeks of course. You have Ukrainian forces on the western side of the Dnipro River really digging in. They say that they're going to take those steps in closer and closer to Russian forces who are fortifying their positions on the other side of the river.
 
And I just want to bring up a map to show you why the city is so strategic. Why it's so important. You can see there that it is that bridge, that corridor that connects Crimea, of course. Russian- occupied Crimea on the Black Sea to those other Russian occupied areas. Mariupol all the way up through the Donbas. So a critical corridor there that Russia absolutely wants to hold on to but both sides conceding that this is going to be an extremely tough battle. 
 
Yesterday, Russian-backed officials saying some 70 people were killed in shelling that equipment -- military equipment was destroyed. Ukrainian officials, for their part, saying that Russian troops are shelling communities in and around the area, putting innocents at risk. And again, this is not something that's going to happen overnight. Our own colleague Fred Pleitgen was in that region of course with Ukrainian forces just a few days ago. And he saw both sides just a few kilometers away from each other. A sense of stale meat there. But again, this is going to be an absolutely strategic battle when it comes to the counter offensive. President Zelenskyy has said he will do everything he can to return Ukrainian lands. He says that Ukrainian forces have been able to cut off supply lines to Russian troops. He's threatening to besiege Russian forces if they don't back down.
 
Russian backed officials for their port have started to evacuate what they call evacuations of tens of thousands of people living in Kherson, that's been going on for weeks now. Human rights groups have raised concerns that those are actually evictions, forced evictions, that could be illegal. But a lot of eyes right now on Kherson and the battle heating up there.
 
COREN: Yes. So as you have just reported, you know, Zelensky, other officials saying they are determined to take it back no matter what the cost. Clare, if we can now go to you in London. Reports -- we are hearing that Iran is planning to send a batch of more than 200 combat drones to Russia among other weaponry. What more can you tell us?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Anna, So the Ukrainian military intelligence say that they believe that Iran will send another batch of drones, 200 or so drones. They expect to arrive in Russia at the beginning of November. So around now crucial because this -- according to Ukrainian military intelligence we have not been able to independently confirm this, would not only include those Shahed drones that we've already seen in use on the battlefield.
 
Those small disposable drones that have inflicted so much damage on Ukraine's energy infrastructure. But also a newer model called the Arash-2 drone which has a much bigger payload and could really give Moscow a boost on the battlefield. That report from Ukrainian intelligence comes on top of a report that CNN reported on Tuesday that according to Western officials who closely monitor Iran's weapons programs, Russia can expect a shipment of around 1000 weapons not only including drones, but also precision guided weapons surface to surface missiles.
 
So that really would be a worrying development for Ukraine on the battlefield. Those would be expected to arrive according to these officials by the end of the year. Now, all of this not exactly an advert for Russia's military, which of course, was so -- seen as so formidable before this conflict. And this is something that Ukraine's ambassador to the U.S. was quick to point out. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OKSANA MARKAROVA, AMBASSADOR OF UKRAINE TO THE UNITED STATES: So right before the winter, they're destroying the heat, water supply, electricity supply. And unfortunately, they're doing it not only with their weapons, it must be very embarrassing to them to turn to Iran for weapons. But again, Iranian regime like Belarus decided to be accomplice of Russia in this war of aggression.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) SEBASTIAN: So I should note that both Russia and Iran deny that there are these kinds of weapons transactions taking place around and said that it has not and will not supply drones to Russia, but the U.S. meanwhile is saying that it will do everything it can to try to disrupt these networks to stop these weapons trades from taking place which of course are so dangerous for Ukraine on the battlefield.
 <br>[02:20:05]
 
COREN: Yes. Certainly an alarming development for the Ukrainians. Salma Abdulaziz in Kyiv, Clare Sebastian in London. Many thanks to both -- to you both.
 
Well, just ahead, as mourners claim the belongings of their loved ones. CNN talks exclusively with friends of some of those killed in the deadly crowd crush in South Korea.
 
Plus, the suspect accused of violently attacking Paul Pelosi plotting to target other public officials according to prosecutors. We're following that story and the Supreme Court's appearance. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Welcome back. Well, records show police in South Korea were warned about a possible dangerous crush of people. Some four hours before things took a deadly turn on Saturday. At least 156 people were killed when Halloween party goers were trapped in a massive crowd surge in Seoul.
 
A student from Mexico who was part of the crowd said her lungs felt like they were being flattened. She shared her horrifying story earlier with CNN.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JULIAN VELANDIA SANTAELLA, SURVIVOR: My legs were completely squished for at least 30 minutes. I stopped receiving blood circulation to my legs. I couldn't -- I stopped feeling at some point. I literally thought that they were going to -- they're going to break. My legs were going to break. I couldn't feel them. I couldn't even move my toes because we're -- there were people below me and above me crushing me, crushing my body completely.
 
There was an unconscious guy on top of me that couldn't help me breathe. My lungs and my chest were completely flattened. So, I couldn't inhale. I couldn't expand my lungs to breathe. So, I knew the only way that I could keep being alive was to keep breathing from my mouth. That's the only way that I that I knew I could survive like my priority right there was my lungs, not my legs just to survive.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Well, grieving families are now tasked with collecting the belongings of their loved ones from a gym. Shoes, jackets, backpacks and purses are among some of the personal items waiting to be claimed. CNN's Ivan Watson spoke with survivors and friends of some of those killed. He filed this exclusive report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IAN CHANG, FRIEND OF VICTIM STEVEN BLESI: Everybody was very fond of Steven. Steven was the kindest person there ever was. He will be there for you. He was like a good friend for everybody. A kind soul.
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Ian Chang, a 21-year-old from Florida. He's talking about his friend Steven Blesi.
 
CHANG: (INAUDIBLE) Steven.
 
WATSON: The two American university students met here in South Korea during their semester abroad in Seoul.
 
CHANG: It was like one of these big adventures to come here by himself.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Show me some cooking skills.
 
WATSON: Young Americans mixed class work with exploring Korea.
 <br>[02:25:06]
 
CHANG: He definitely like the food here for sure.
 
WATSON: The barbecue.
 
CHANG: Yes. Korean barbecue.
 
WATSON: And that included late nights out in Seoul's bars and nightclubs. That is until Saturday night when everything went horribly wrong.
 
CHANG: I didn't know it was real. You know, the whole thing because I saw him that day. Right. And just learning the news that he passed away. He just, you know, doesn't seem to be true.
 
WATSON: The two Americans plans to meet here in Seoul's Itaewon district to celebrate Halloween. But that night Korean authorities estimate more than 100,000 other people were also coming to party here.
 
ANNE LOU-CHEVALIER, SURVIVOR OF CROWD CRUSH: At the beginning we thought it was funny.
 
WATSON: Stuck in the crowd, Anne Lou-Chevalier, 22-year-old French exchange student filmed herself with friends at first laughing but then she suddenly looks distressed.
 
You were hurt. What happened to you?
 
LOU-CHEVALIER: At some point I had no air and we were so crushed to other people that I couldn't breathe at all. So, I just passed out. 
 
WATSON: Unconscious.
 
LOU-CHEVALIER: Yes, unconscious.
 
WATSON: Bystanders pulled Chevalier limp out of the crowd. She was one of the lucky ones. 
 
WATSON (on camera): This narrow alley was ground zero on Saturday night. Hundreds of party goers collapsed into a deadly pile up here and began suffocating under the weight of the crowd. 
 
WATSON (voice over): At least 156 people died. South Korea is still processing this staggering loss. Days later lost belongings on display for grieving relatives to identify.
 
CHANG: So I missed Steven to tell him like hey, don't come to our place anyway.
 
WATSON: On Saturday night Ian Chang got to the crowded neighborhood first and warned his friends not to come. But the Atlantic native who loves hip hop and international travel never answered. The next day authorities identified Blesi and Anne Gieske, another American student from the same exchange program as two of the many victims.
 
Just weeks ago, this group of friends went on a weekend hiking trip together.
 
CHANG: Such a great person. Like a great friend.
 
WATSON: Steven (INAUDIBLE) shared plans for the future. Hopes and dreams that will now never be fulfilled.
 
CHANG: I wish I could have made more memories with him. You know. I'm going to miss him.
 
WATSON: Ivan Watson, CNN, Seoul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
COREN: Well, the Indian state of Gujarat is holding a day of mourning for 135 people killed in Sunday's bridge collapse. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the site of the accident and spoke with survivors in the hospital. Mr. Modi pledged compensation from the government but families want someone to be held accountable for the tragedy.
 
Police have made nine arrests so far in their investigation. They say all suspects are connected to a company that recently did maintenance work on the bridge.
 
We're learning disturbing new details about the man charged with viciously attacking House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's husband Paul. San Francisco's district attorney tells CNN David DePape intended to target other public officials. And Pelosi's home was the first stop on that mission. The case is still very fresh. So, the D.A. is not able to share
 
 specific details of who DePape was trying to target.
 
Well, meantime, the 42-year-old suspect was in court Tuesday for his initial appearance. He's charged with a litany of crimes including attempted murder.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF BILL SCOTT, SAN FRANCISCO POLICE DEPARTMENT: What is crystal clear to me is he tried to kill Mr. Pelosi. Now what was going on in his mind as to why he did that? I can't speak to that. But what I -- what is very clear to me from viewing that body-worn camera is he tried to kill Mr. Pelosi.
 
BROOKE JENKINS, SAN FRANCISCO DISTRICT ATTORNEY: I think we've seen just like on January 6 that this insightful commentary that goes on, what has become I think accepting behavior of people encouraging violence, encouraging people to take these extreme standpoints and viewpoints is certainly laying a pathway to this type of conduct.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: In court Tuesday, DePape waived his right to a hearing within 10 days and is behind bars until his next court appearance on November 4th. He faces charges that could lead up to life in prison if he's convicted.
 
Well, still to come on CNN. How Iranian demonstrators are responding after the government threatens public trials for protesters.
 <br>[02:30:01]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
COREN:  In Iran, state media reports public trials are being held for about 1,000 alleged antigovernment protesters. But if that was meant to end demonstrations, it certainly hasn't worked. This is Tehran Tuesday, where a protest took place on a university campus in support of jailed students. CNN obtained this video from the pro-reform activist outlet, IranWire.
 
The nationwide protests now in their seventh week, the ruling theocracy's biggest challenge in years. Despite a brutal crackdown to stop them. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh has more from Istanbul.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  More than 1,000 people have so far been indicted in Iran according to Iranian state media and judicial authorities, hundreds of them in the Tehran province as well as other parts of the country for taking part in the protests over the past six weeks for their role in these demonstrations.
 
The public trials, according to state media in revolutionary courts, began over the weekend and are continuing. One Iranian official telling state media that they were hoping that these would be speedy trials. Some of those on trial right now will be facing very serious charges, including killing members of the security forces, attempting to destabilize the country and overthrow the regime, destruction of public property, so the expectation is that many will be facing the death penalty.
 
And we are talking about a country that has a very high rate of executions, a country that for years has been criticized by human rights organizations for its flawed judicial system, for not providing people with fair trials. Human rights organizations also accused them of extracting confessions, in many cases, under torture. So, a lot of concern for those who will be standing trial right now and the fear is that the government, the regime will be using this to try and make an example of those protesters, to try and deter people from taking part in these ongoing protests.
 
Over the past nearly seven weeks now, the regime has used everything it has used in the past to try to crush protests, whether it is the brutal crackdown that we have seen taking place on the streets, the arrests, the beatings, the use of live fire according to human rights organizations, as well as the most severe warning to date that we heard over the weekend coming from the head of the feared Revolutionary Guards, telling protesters that Saturday was their last day and an ultimatum telling them that they should not come back out to the streets, despite all of this, despite these trials, people are still defiant. They are still taking to the streets.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
We have seen also university students continuing their protests, as well, on university campuses across the country, in Tehran and other places on Tuesday as well. Nearly seven weeks since these protests started, the Iranian regime is struggling to contain what has become this national uprising that is posing one of the biggest threats to the Islamic Republic.
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN:  Well, dozens are missing after two boats carrying migrants capsized off the coast of Greece. Well, this was the view from a Greek coast guard ship as it searched for survivors. Some have already been rescued. One of the migrant boats was carrying more than 60 people when it capsized on Tuesday. Another capsized Monday with more than one dozen people on board. Greece has been on the frontline of Europe's migration crisis, the refugees fleeing war and poverty across parts of the Middle East.
 
Well, British prime minister, Rishi Sunak, is trying to defuse a firestorm of controversy over his home secretary's recent remarks calling the recent surge of asylum seekers an invasion. Mr. Sunak says his country is a welcoming place for asylum seekers. The U.K.'s immigration minister, also rejected the wording, saying, he would never "demonize people."
 
Hurricane and tropical storm warnings have been issued in for Central American countries ahead of Tropical Storm Lisa. The storm is expected to strengthen to a hurricane in the coming hours, and bring several inches of rainfall through Thursday to parts of Belize, Honduras, Guatemala Nicaragua, Mexico and also Jamaica. For more on this story, we're joined by Pedram Javaheri from the CNN weather center.
 
Pedram, how strong is this storm?
 
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  You know, Anna, this storm system is a quick moving storm system, it is a strong tropical storm. Just shy of what would be a category one hurricane and all indications are that Lisa will strengthen to a hurricane just before it makes landfall. And as you noted, government across portions of Honduras, certainly Belize and Guatemala as well taking this very seriously here as the system will essentially sneak up on you here over the next few hours and make landfall quickly across this landscape.
 
Rugged terrain certainly leads to some localized flooding concerns. And notice, it does try to reemerge across the Gulf of Mexico at the southern tier of it in the Bay of Campeche, but models do suggest it will cut a rain across that region and not progress farther across the area. But tremendous rainfall in store in the next coming days, possibly 150 millimeters, which, again, will lead to localized flooding in that landscape.
 
Now, notice what's happening here across portions of the South China Sea. So, this are tropical storm, Tropical Storm Nalgae, that has sat there, caused significant damage and casualties across portions of the Philippines.
 
And right now, a shell of its former self and really great news here from our friends across Hong Kong, you include it, Anna, here because the storm system, as it approached Hong Kong, quickly beginning to weaken and essentially produce thunderstorms, certainly some rainfall potential in store, but the winds go from the current 90 or so kilometers per hour down to 55, down to 35, and rain out across this landscape. So, if you're tuned in around Hong Kong and points just to the north, so, around, say, Wujo (ph), Shanwei, some of these regions could see some very heavy rainfall in the coming few hours. And that's about it.
 
You kind of could look at the season in this season how it's played out, the blue bars indicate the total number of tropical storms we've seen across the Western Pacific, we are just below average as indicated in the red bars and typhoons also just below average there. And also, in super typhoons, we're tied in that scale. So, the season has been a little bit quieter than what we typically see, but the activity right now are quickly weakening with the storm approaching Hong Kong.
 
COREN:  Well, Pedram, my kids are pretty happy they didn't have to go to school today, because school was canceled. But good to know that the storm is not a serious.
 
JAVAHERI:  I heard. Yes.
 
COREN:  As we all thought. Pedram, good to see you. I'll catch up next hour. Well, still to come, the age of Musk is upon us amid the billionaire's chaotic Twitter takeover, companies are pulling back on advertising. Put a new plan to monetize the little blue check mark, make up the difference.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:40:00]
 
COREN:  One of the world's biggest advertising firms has told its clients to pause their ads on Twitter amid Elon Musk's whirlwind takeover. Inter Public Group, also known as IPG advised clients to step back while they wait for clarity on changes to Twitter's policy, according to a close source. More than 40 civil society groups, including GLAAD and the NAACP pending open letter to Twitter's biggest advertisers. They want Musk to ensure online safety or else they'll pull the plug.
 
But the SpaceX and Tesla founder has a contingency plan that -- and it involves the coveted blue check mark. Musk announced plans to charge users $8 a month to keep their verified status, which is used to represent trustworthy account vetted by Twitter, celebrities, businesses or other important figures. Now, the blue checks are everywhere. And Musk is banking on users wanting the social clout of the symbol stamp on their account. Musk has also throwing in a ton of other perks to go along with their monthly charge.
 
One of the biggest concerns Twitter users have is the return of accounts that were suspended for reasons including misinformation and hate speech. Well, Musk confirmed on Tuesday those users wouldn't immediately return until the policy was in place for reinstating them. He previously said Twitter would form a content moderation council of widely diverse viewpoints to tackle those serious issues. There's been no news on that council so far.
 
Well, now, to another Elon Musk project, his SpaceX Falcon Heavy rocket returned to the skies for the first time in three years.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Three, two, one. Zero. Lift off.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN:  The rocket successfully launched from NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Tuesday, installing satellites to space for the U.S. military and a secret admission (ph).
 
Well, thanks so much for your company. I'm Anna Coren. World Sport is up next. I'll be back in 15 minutes time with more from "CNN Newsroom."
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00] STALLWORTH:  But I will say that there has to be some kind of thing where they have to change these players walking in in the tunnel at the same time. Now, you would expect them not to behave this way. 99 percent of the time, it does not happen. But in cases like this where it does happen, you would like to minimize any type of situation that can arise out of players losing their heads and acting out like this.
 
COATES:  I mean, is it pollyannaish for some people to say, oh, you know what, we can just tell them, this was wrong, you shouldn't do this and not need to have to conform the entire stadium or the entry and the egress on that very note? But you point out, I mean, if this is the reality, what does that say about what is happening behind the scenes and the mentality; 
 
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, CNN SPORT ANALYST:  Where we are in sports today, because your point is well taken, Laura. The idea that sports on the field of play, there's a winner, there's a loser. You can shake hands. Women and men learning life lessons. I mean, that is really happening in sports in a lot of places. That's not what happened here.
 
I grew up going to games at Michigan Stadium, watched incredible emotion. You were player of the game, college pro, you know what it was like. And you just cannot have that happen. Obviously, these guys were suspended. There is punishment, the right things are happening now but all the wrong things happened to get us to this point.
 
COATES:  You are seeing this and on a larger scale, taking a step back, Kirsten, on the idea of just how much sports is under the microscope for a variety of things, and we're talking about way in which things are happening in the NBA, for example. You've got an NBA player, Kyrie Irving, being, you know, vilified in some respects for retweeting and having the presumption of antisemitism. You've got players responding. You've got, you know, people on the court having these issues talking about it. I mean, we are seeing more and more that's under the microscope.
 
And I just want to play for a second, because there was this moment where Charles Barkley is speaking about what happened on this issue of Kyrie Irving. Listen to this, and I want you to respond.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHARLES BARKLEY, FORMER PROFESSIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYER:  I think the NBA dropped the ball.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  In what way?
 
BARKLEY:  I think he should've been suspended. I think Adam should have suspended him. First of all, Adam's Jewish. You can't take my $40 million and insult my religion. I can't believe that we are not talking about that. We are talking about this idiot. And when you say -- if I say, hey, I am agreeing with this movement, this book or whatever, I am agreeing with it. I am not going to put -- first of, all you know I don't do any social media. But when you are somebody as great at basketball like him, people are going to listen to what you say. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COATES:  I mean, this is the idea that he tweeted and shared antisemitic content on social media. That's the controversy around what he's done. But his point, the idea of the platform and responsibility of the platform, you take this very seriously, I know in your book, talking about political grace and the idea of it and what happens, the toxicity of social media, we're not talking about sports, we're talking about what's happening on the sidelines, and it's consequential.
 
KIRSTEN POWERS, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST:  Well, I think the reason is that they are under a microscope is because they are heroes for the most part in our culture, right? Athletes are our heroes in our culture, children look up to them, grown people look up to them. And so, when you have that kind of responsibility, you really -- I mean, look, you should -- I don't care who you are, you shouldn't be tweeting out antisemitic things.
 
But if you are somebody in a position like that, where people are looking up to you as a role model and as a hero, then you have an even higher standard. And I think what we see a lot of sports -- I'm not a big sports person, I don't fall a lot of sports. But it is pretty clear to me that there has been a lack of accountability, right, because they're heroes, and because, you know, there's been a lot of excuses that have been made for athletes along the way.
 
And I think we have gotten to a point in culture where people are trying to say, you know, we are not going to make so many excuses for you anymore. We're actually going to hold you to higher standards.
 
COATES:  Should he be held to higher standards, Donte, as an athlete?
 
STALLWOROTH:  I think they should hold themselves to higher standards. I think when we put people on the pedestal, and something of this nature happens, it just kind of reminds us that they are human as well. And that is obviously not an endorsement but -- of what he did or what he said. But I think too that holding ourselves higher -- to a higher standard, that means that when you are doing your research, you are not looking at somebody else's YouTube video and considering that research, you actually have to read books. You need to learn from professors and people who have dedicated their lives to understanding certain philosophies and things that -- I think where he was trying to get across, but obviously it did not come off that way.
 
And anyone who has seen the video knows that that video is just -- is filled with antisemitic tropes and things that are in the conspiracy world of Jewish people and how they control the planet and all this other craziness.
 
COATES:  I mean, Alisyn, imagine that, the onus being on people be responsible in the information they disseminate. I mean, I -- 
 
CAMEROTA:  I mean, wow. How high of a standard was it to ask him not to tweet antisemitic things? You know, that should -- I'm not sure that's actually a high standard. And I totally agree with Donte, I mean, of course you have to be -- you have to know what you're putting out there in the world. You just have to. You have to be responsible for that.
 
COATES:  Well, we'll see if it works in politics too.
 
CAMEROTA:  OK. meanwhile, President Biden is hitting the campaign trail. So, we're going to tell you his midterm message for the country, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:50:00]
 
CAMEROTA:  President Biden out on the trail in Florida today. His midterm message is that democracy is on the ballot.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  Their extremism is not limited to social programs and the economy. They are coming after your right to vote and who'd get to count the vote. No, for real. You've got 350 or so election deniers on the ballot on the Republican ticket. No, this is really deadly earnest, man. Democracy is on the ballot this year, along with your right to choose.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:55:00]
 
COATES:  I mean, Laura, there really are two distinct messages at least. I mean, you hear from the Republicans, it's about inflation, it's about the economy, it's about what you can put on your kitchen table. And then, you hear from President Biden that, yes, those things are important, but not as important as democracy. And without democracy, everything else is up for grabs. And those are just, you know, the choices for the voters right now.
 
COATES:  You know, it's true. And I think there's a part that he mentioned, which is the idea that it is not just the right to vote, it's the right to have that vote counted. And you think about, that's what election denialism has really been about, right? The idea that fear is not for many people about whether you won't have access to the ballot, although, originally, that was part of the discussions happening. But really, it's now about the idea of will it be counted? And will somebody actually support the results? That is the key to all of this. We'll see what happens.
 
CAMEROTA:  And who will be doing the counting.
 
COATES:  Right. Democracy is in the counting. Listen, everyone, weigh in on what we've been talking about tonight. Tweet us at @AlisynCamerota and @thelauracoates, use the hashtag #CNNSoundOff. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:00:00]