Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Biden, Obama Trump All Campaigning In Pennsylvania For Key Senate Race; Georgia Voters Sound Off Before Critical Midterm Election; Fate Of Senate In Handful Of Key Races, Including Arizona; Kyrie Irving Finally Apologizes For Anti-Semitic Tweet; Bill Clinton Campaigns For Hochul In Tight NY Governor's Race. Aired 3-4p ET

Aired November 05, 2022 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:00:00]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Thank you so much for joining me today. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. The CNN NEWSROOM continues with Jim Acosta right now. 
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN HOST: You are live in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Jim Acosta live in Atlanta, the capital of battleground Georgia, home to one of the marquis races that could determine control of the Senate. 
 
For the candidates here and all across the country, now is the time when they hope that weeks of handshakes, stump speeches and rallies will translate into votes. With just three days to go. more than 34 million ballots have been cast in 47 states. And now it's time for the final push. 
 
These are live pictures from Philadelphia where Democrats are bringing out their heavy hitters as they try to hang on to slim majorities in the House and the Senate. President Biden and former President Barack Obama will make their closing arguments with their party's candidates just a short time from now. Both have warned that democracy is on the line this Tuesday, denouncing Republican election deniers who are on the ballot. 
 
Also in Pennsylvania tonight, former President Donald Trump who is on a campaign blitz that has much to do with his own political future as the Republicans running on Tuesday. Sources tell CNN his aides are eyeing the third week of November, a very short time from now, as an ideal launch for his next run for president. 
 
CNN is tracking key races and issues across the country. Let's begin with CNN's Phil Mattingly live in Philadelphia for us. We just mentioned where you are just a few moments ago. An eager crowd is awaiting President Biden and former President Barack Obama. They are trying to pull out the big guns, Phil, here in this home stretch. 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes. It's something, Jim, that really underscores that Pennsylvania, for all intents and purposes, is the center of the political universe for the next three days. There are some major House races that are up for grab. There's obviously a governor's race. But the most important of all is the Senate race where Democrats are trying to flip a seat, give themselves some cushion given the other races they have that are very much coming down to the wire here. 
 
This is a different vibe than any President Biden event that I have been to up to this point. There's a deejay just a few feet away from me, not the norm for a President Biden event. But something that underscores the very clear effort here. You saw President Biden in Pittsburgh earlier today. President Biden and President Obama here in Philadelphia in about two hours trying to really juice turnout in blue strongholds knowing that that is the critical element of winning this state. The messages, they're somewhat similar. Styles are very different. 
 
But, Jim, the message is similar as we heard from the former president earlier today. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: Democrats may not be perfect. I'm the first one to admit it. I'm not perfect. No politician is. We're just like all of you. We can make mistakes. But right now with a few notable exceptions, most Republican politicians aren't even pretending that the rules apply to them. They just make stuff up. We've seen -- throughout history, we have seen around the world what happens when you give up on democracy. 
 
We can see it in other countries where government tells you what books you can read and what books you can't. Countries that own all the media and just pump up propaganda and put dissidents and reporters in jail. Countries where it really doesn't matter who you vote for because the fix really is in. And people in power do whatever they want. And where corruption is rampant because there's no accountability. When that happens, people get hurt. That has real-life consequences. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: Jim, it's something it underscores that while there is definitely a message of contrast right now that Democrats are trying to put on the table, there is also a message of the stakes, something you will almost certainly hear in a couple of hours here in Philadelphia from both President Obama and current President Biden -- Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: And Phil, former President Donald Trump will also be in the state tonight after teasing a 2024 run. I have to imagine that perhaps on the Republican side that might cause a little squeamishness. But what can you tell us? 
 
MATTINGLY: You know, Jim, it's one of these elements of it's the cost benefit to some degree, right. If this is a turnout election, if this is a base-driven election, then if you're a Pennsylvanian Republican you'd probably want President Trump in certain areas of this state. That's why Democrats want their top leaders in Philadelphia and in Pittsburgh. 
 
But the reality is this. If it's an election where Pennsylvania is the most critical state and President Trump obviously lost it in 2020, Mehmet Oz has seemed to move away from the president, the former president to some degree. maybe the front page of the two of them holding hands or putting their arms around each other is not necessarily something you want. If you're trying to get those voters that are just trying to make up their mind towards the end of the race, it is a calculation that has to be made. 
 <br>[15:05:03]
 
I think the biggest question right now I've heard from some Republicans is, is the president -- former president actually coming to Pennsylvania because of trying to boost a Senate candidate or is he coming to Pennsylvania for himself? That I think is a question we probably have a pretty good idea of what the answer is to -- Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: I think we definitely know what the answer is. All right, Phil Mattingly live in Philadelphia for us. Thanks for breaking that down for us. We appreciate it. 
 
Despite polls predicting a red wave is coming, President Biden says not so fast. He thinks Democrats have a chance to keep control of both Houses of Congress. Let's take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I know you always ask me how are we doing. We're going to win this time around I think. I feel really good about our chances. I haven't been in all the House races but I think we're going to keep the Senate, pick up a seat. I think we have a chance to winning the House. I don't think we're going to not win. Keeping the House. So I'm optimistic. I really am. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: And joining me now to talk about all of this, former Democratic senator from Minnesota and a frequent guest on the program here, host of "The Al Franken Podcast," Al Franken, and CNN political commentator and former Republican congressman from Pennsylvania, Charlie Dent. 
 
Al, let me start with you first. That's a pretty big prediction from the president. Obviously wants to remain hopeful and optimistic in all of this. In terms of strategy, Al, the president used a primetime address a few days ago this week to talk about threats to democracy. Poll after poll shows the economy is the issue. How do you see the choice facing voters right now? What do you think? 
 
AL FRANKEN (D), FORMER MINNESOTA SENATOR: It's both. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. 
 
FRANKEN: And -- but the economy is what's on people's mind and inflation. And you know, Republicans have -- really the only spending that they're talking about cutting is spending that helps people. They're talking about cutting Medicare. They're talking about overturning provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act, Medicare being able to negotiate with pharmaceuticals that every other developed country does that. 
 
We spend about two to three times as much on pharmaceuticals as they do. They want to repeal that. That's part of the Inflation Reduction Act. $35 insulin for seniors. They want to repeal that. That will just hurt people. They have -- other than that, I don't know what they want to do about inflation. I haven't heard. They just talk that game. So I think economics are important. They have to be. 
 
And they of course also will want to cut taxes on people, upper income people. That's what they always want to do. And that again will, you know, take that away. You see Johnson, Ron Johnson has talked about voting on Medicare and Social Security every year. Rick Scott, who headed up the Senate campaign committee for the Republicans has talked about that. That it has to come up for renewal every five years. 
 
This should be very, very alarming. And, look, I won my first term in the Senate -- I won by 312 votes. Every vote counts. So my message to Democrats is get out there, vote, and door knock in the next few days. That's what we do in Minnesota. We get out the vote and we knock on doors. And I want your viewers to do that. 
 
ACOSTA: And, Charlie, let me ask you this. We just heard from Phil Mattingly a few moments ago. He touched on this. Let me ask you about the Pennsylvania Senate race because Mehmet Oz has talked about bringing balance to politics if he's elected. But tonight he's going to campaign with former President Trump. As we know he's talking about running for president maybe in a few weeks, according to his aides. 
 
Trump has some major competition, we should note. Oprah Winfrey, the icon who helped make Oz a star, she's endorsing John Fetterman. But do you think it's a good idea for Mehmet to appear with Trump at this stage of the race? You know Pennsylvania so well. There are so many folks who are just sort of straight down the middle in terms of their politics. Could this be a last-minute turnoff? 
 
CHARLIE DENT (R), FORMER PENNSYLVANIA REPRESENTATIVE: Well, if I'm advising the Oz campaign I would have advised against because right now Mehmet Oz needs to win swing voters and Donald Trump really doesn't do a whole lot to help him there. So I would definitely be against it. But let me just say something about Pennsylvania generally. I know Joe Biden and Barack Obama are on the state today as well. 
 
But I don't think these surrogates are going to make much of a different. You know, Barack Obama was clobbered in the midterms in Pennsylvania in 2010. He had a poor performance, too, in 2014 in the midterms. Joe Biden is under water in Pennsylvania. 
 <br>[15:10:03]
 
And the Senate race is really going to be decided -- it's very tight right now. And, you know, I think it's dead even, to be quite honest. So I think it's actually an advantage to Oz. But after that debate that was almost -- that was really disqualifying for Fetterman, things have really moved. And, you know, particularly among college educated men are moving towards Oz away from Fetterman largely after that debate performance. 
 
The crime issue is resonating, especially in the Philadelphia region, where I think the Oz campaign has been very effective at contrasting the votes of Josh Shapiro, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate whom I've endorsed, contrasting their votes in the border pardons between Fetterman and Shapiro. And that is really having an impact. Of course the economy and inflation are really the primary issue. 
 
No one should underestimate that and also Fetterman made a mistake in the debate where he really couldn't articulate his view on fracking, which is an enormous issue in western Pennsylvania where so many jobs and major economic issue out there, energy issue, people follow that very closely. So I think right now that Oz is actually very well positioned to win the Senate race, as is Shapiro, the gubernatorial race. 
 
ACOSTA: Al, you want to chime in there? 
 
FRANKEN: Yes. Oz made a mistake in the debate, too, which he said that a woman's choice on abortion should be between her doctor, herself, and her local political official. 
 
DENT: Yes. That's true. 
 
FRANKEN: I don't think so. You know -- yes, and I just also that enabled Democrats to run ads linking him to Mastriano, which was -- that's a tactical mistake because he is against any abortion even for the life of the mother and rape. So I think that was a very big mistake. And I have seen the polls, too, Charlie. And first of all, polls, they tightened. But from what I've seen, Fetterman is still ahead I think in most of them. 
 
Maybe I haven't seen the latest polls but I mean in the last day or so. But yes, is it going to be a very tight race. And that's why -- you know, what's at stake here is so much. It's not just democracy. It is climate change. It is marriage equality. It's Roe. There is so much at stake here. And Oz is on the wrong side of these things. 
 
DENT: Well, let me just say one thing about the debate. Look, the issue, yes, did Oz stumble on that abortion question? No doubt. But the problem for Fetterman was many people watched that debate and questioned Fetterman's capacity to serve in office because the Fetterman campaign has been -- they have not been transparent. They understated this problem of the health issue. They should have replaced him back in the summer when they had the chance. 
 
And it was -- I mean, it was appalling and sad that they put him out there under those conditions because many people watch that and they just don't think he's able to do the job, notwithstanding whatever mistakes Oz made, although he was very crisp and clear in his answers. And Fetterman was not. And that's what's driving a lot of the election right now. The polls -- I think the average right now has Oz up by .1 percent. So it's dead even. 
 
So this thing can go any way and I think Oz has been pretty effective at trying to keep distance from Mastriano, except for today, which is a mistake, as Mastriano was a disastrous candidate for Republicans for a whole host of reasons I don't need to get into. But that's where we are in this state. But I'm telling you, I think right now that Oz is positioned to win. 
 
ACOSTA: Let me ask you, though. I want to jump in here because, Al, I want to get to what we've been learning in the last couple of days, which is that Trump is eyeing a possible presidential announcement in less than two weeks. And here he was teasing the crowd about this this week. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: In order to make our country successful and safe and glorious, I will very, very, very probably do it again. OK. Very, very, very probably. Get ready. That's all I'm telling you. Very soon. Get ready. Get ready. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: Al, I just wonder, I mean, should this be a motivating factor for Democrats on Tuesday? You know, the Republicans were all but begging Trump to please stay on the sidelines, please don't make an announcement before the midterms. And here he is teasing on, having his aides go out there and say OK, in the middle of November or late November we're going to announce we're running for president. 
 
Isn't this kind of what the Democrats want at this point, to remind voters, guess who is coming back, guess who is trying to get back in the White House? 
 <br>[15:15:01]
 
FRANKEN: Well, it's not only a motivating factor for Democrats. I think it's a motivating factor for Republicans like Charlie, who see Donald Trump for who he is, and that is a sociopath. And you know, and I also agree with Charlie. Maybe it wasn't Charlie who said it but that Trump is in there for himself. He isn't there to help Oz. He is in there for himself. And I think that will backfire, and I hope it will backfire. Of course. 
 
ACOSTA: What do you think, Charlie? Do you wish Donald Trump would have just stayed out of this all the way until after the midterms? It's almost like he can't help himself. 
 
DENT: Donald Trump should not show up in any swing state where a Republican is in a close race. Full stop. He should not be in Georgia, he should not be in Pennsylvania, he should not be in Wisconsin. You know, maybe Ohio. OK. I get that. Maybe North Carolina. But he should stay out of those three states. Well, you can't get him out of Florida, he is in Mar-a-Lago. 
 
But the point I'm making is this is a disaster because right now this is all about getting those swing voters. Yes, you want to spike up your base a bit. I mean, the only good thing about Trump being in Pennsylvania, he is not in the Philadelphia media market if you're Mehmet Oz. And that's the only good thing. But he should not be here because all this does is remind people, hopefully intervenes in these races. 
 
He's done it in the primary helping to nominate some very challenging candidates or exotic candidates to be polite. And he's really complicated this election cycle for Republicans where they should be walking away with this midterm right now. Even though the Roe decision certainly, you know, has given Democrats some energy. They should still be walking away with this and Trump is not helping. 
 
And if he announces after the election and there is a runoff in Georgia, you know, this could be a repeat of 2020. That would be -- I can't even think of anything worse for Republicans announcing after the election before the runoff should there be one in Georgia. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. There's no question about that. 
 
FRANKEN: Good timing. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. And I'll remind our viewers I was covering Trump in the White House during that 2018 midterms. And what we heard from Republican strategists, Republican staffers up on Capitol Hill was that Trump was alienating and turning off swing district voters in places like Pennsylvania, the very state that we're talking about right now. 
 
Former Senator Al franken, former Congressman Charlie Dent, thanks to both of you very much for your time. We appreciate it. 
 
And make sure to join CNN for special election coverage starting Tuesday at 4:00 p.m. Eastern. 
 
And coming up, two years ago Democrats won the Senate after flipping Georgia. And now it could be pivotal once again with another high- stakes Senate race that may even trigger a runoff in December. Could we be in for a long wait? That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:21:59]
 
ACOSTA: Welcome back. We are here in Georgia, a must-watch state on election day. And thanks to high-profile races for Senate and governor, I got a chance to talk to some voters about what's important to them, and the economy and abortion were top of mind. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ERIKA STURGES, GEORGIA VOTER: People need help. People need to eat. People need to pay for gas. People need to work. If people don't have gas in their cars, they can't go to work. And I live in an area where public transportation is not regular. You know, and so when people don't have cars they can't get to work. 
 
ACOSTA: That's a problem. Yes. 
 
STURGES: That is a huge part. And the middleclass and poor really want to stimulate the economy. ACOSTA: Do you think people are fired up about this election? 
 
STURGES: Heck yes. We should be. 
 
ACOSTA: So the economy is on your mind? 
 
STURGES: Yes. 
 
ACOSTA: But you are still voting on women's rights? 
 
STURGES: Heck yes. Number one. Yes. I mean, Roe v. Wade did not stop abortions. It made it safer. I'm afraid that more women will die, young girls who may be in situations that they didn't plan and their whole lives are derailed because they have to carry baby that was not planned. Or women now who may have miscarriages and could be investigated because they lose their baby. That makes no sense to me. 
 
ACOSTA: What issues were you thinking about going in and voting this time around? 
 
WILL RHODES, GEORGIA VOTER: To me it was abortion. Of course the major thing that's on the ticket is abortion laws, stuff how Roe versus Wade was reversed. Totally against that. You know, I think the woman should have the right to do whatever she wants for her body and things of that nature. So the government should not necessarily be a part of that decision whatever the scenario is. 
 
ACOSTA: How did you vote? 
 
DUNCAN TAM, GEORGIA VOTER: Republican down ticket. 
 
ACOSTA: Republican down ticket. 
 
TAM: Yes. I didn't vote in the Senate race, though. 
 
ACOSTA: Didn't vote in the Senate race. 
 
TAM: No. 
 
ACOSTA: Because of Herschel Walker or? 
 
TAM: Yes. Because of Herschel Walker. 
 
ACOSTA: You didn't like him. 
 
TAM: Yes. In the runoff, if the Senate is in the balance, then I'd consider it. If it a matter of like a 50-50 or a 51-49, then I might be willing to. But I will wait until other races in like Pennsylvania and things like that are resolved to decide whether or not I want to sort of hold my nose and vote for Herschel Walker. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: And that critical Senate race here in Georgia is top of mind here for voters. CNN's Eva McKend went to a rally for Republican nominee Herschel Walker today at his alma mater. Eva, what did you find out? 
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Jim game day at the University of Georgia where Republican Senate candidate Herschel Walker making his closing argument to supporters. A homecoming of sorts for Walker. He of course is from Wrightsville, Georgia. But it is here in Athens where he launched his football career. And his stump speech much of the same, focusing his closing argument on his opponent, Democratic Senator Raphael Warnock, arguing that Warnock aligns himself too closely to President Biden. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HERSCHEL WALKER (R), GEORGIA SENATE CANDIDATE: It wasn't about what he did at his persona life, it's what he's done as a senator. And he has failed as a senator. Has he not? He's failed. Less than two years, you all see where we at? You all see where we at? (INAUDIBLE) he has six more years. Are you kidding me? He can't get six more years. He's joking. 
 <br>[15:25:01]
 
I know it's a joke if he wants six more years. It's time for him to go. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKEND: Senator Warnock busy on the campaign trail as well. Multiple bus stops. He's in Savannah tomorrow in his hometown. He has focused his closing argument characterizing himself as a bridge builder, willing to work with Republicans in service of Georgians arguing Walker is not fit to serve in the United States Senate. 
 
Critically in this state of Georgia, if neither candidate gets above 50 pes percent it will trigger a December runoff, something both candidates are trying to avoid -- Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: Thanks, Eva. 
 
And joining me now veteran political reporter for "The Atlanta Journal-Constitution," Patricia Murphy. 
 
And Patricia, your paper noted that Raphael Warnock has raised more money than any other Senate candidate statewide. It has been a whopping $150 million, am I right about that? Which is $78 million more than Herschel Walker. And yet this poll show the race is tied despite, I mean, just an avalanche of bad news on the campaign trail for Herschel Walker and yet it's so close. Why is that? 
 
PATRICIA MURPHY, POLITICAL REPORTER, ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION: It's been incredible to watch. One reason is because Herschel Walker was so well-known in Georgia and really beloved as a local hero way before this Senate race started. So a lot like Donald Trump, Georgians' impressions of Herschel Walker were really baked in before he ever ran for the Senate, and they were very, very positive. Now obviously a lot of really bad information, very dangerous
 
 accusations about Herschel Walker have come out, a lot of evidence even about from his ex-wife that he had held a gun to her head, held a razor to her throat, that has not budged a lot of Republican support. 
 
A big piece of that is control of the Senate. We are people going to want to be in control of the Senate with Joe Biden in the White House still. We talked to a lot of Republican voters, either some don't believe the accusations against him so they're not factoring those in, or they do believe the accusations and they don't care because they don't want Joe Biden to be able to continue to push his agenda forward. And so it makes a big difference. 
 
ACOSTA: And, you know, one of the things that could happen with this race is obviously going to head to a runoff. And we were just having this discussion with Al Franken and Charlie Dent a moments ago, and, you know, we could end up in a situation where it comes down to Georgia once again for who controls the Senate. We're in a runoff situation. And you have Donald Trump out there announcing that he's going to run for president again right before these midterms end. How could that shake up this race? I mean, that could really have an impact on where voters are in all of this. 
 
MURPHY: It could have a huge impact. And guess what, Georgia was here just a year ago. Raphael Warnock was here a year ago. His Senate race decided control of the U.S. Senate. Donald Trump came out and held a rally in Georgia the day before that election and turned off a huge swath of GOP voters who didn't believe the election was going to be fair. So they just didn't go out and vote. 
 
They also didn't think that the two Republicans up were loyal enough to Donald Trump so Raphael Warnock won that race and it was a huge surprise even here in Georgia. I think the Donald Trump factor is really important and I think control of the Senate is really important. If control of the Senate is decided without this race, and this race goes into a runoff, it's already baked in, either the Democrats or the Republicans have it, no problem, I think that's going to probably help Herschel Walker. 
 
But if it comes down to this race and Republicans could control the U.S. Senate with Herschel Walker in the Senate, we hear from a lot of Republicans who don't feel great about Herschel Walker that they're going to vote for him anyway if it means controlling the U.S. Senate for the next two years. 
 
ACOSTA: Right. And one of the things that could happen is you could have a bunch of Republicans winning all over the country, taking the House, almost taking the Senate, maybe even taking the Senate. And yet you might have Donald Trump out there on the campaign trail continuing to say the election was rigged, the election was stolen from me after a bunch of Republicans just took almost or perhaps completely took control of Congress. That's going to be a strange -- very strange juxtaposition. 
 
But I have to wonder, and you alluded to this a few moments ago, how many people are saying, you know, I'm going to vote for Brian Kemp but not for Herschel Walker. We talked to a voter earlier today who said this very same thing. Is that a dynamic that's playing out here in Georgia? 
 
MURPHY: It's a very real dynamic. It's a small number but it's an important number. About 5 percent of Brian Kemp's voters are also voting for Herschel -- I mean, for Raphael Warnock right now, so there's this split ticket. Those are two incumbents. Those are two people who voters feel pretty good about it and they voted for them the last time. Again, both of those gentlemen have won here in Georgia before so voters are comfortable enough with them right now. 
 
If Donald Trump becomes a big piece of this, that would really scramble the dynamic. Georgia Republicans don't want him here. Donald Trump has not been to Georgia throughout Herschel Walker's entire candidacy. That's not an accident. Brian Kemp doesn't want him here, obviously. And Herschel Walker's camp I think also feels like that would really upset their momentum as well. So if this goes to runoff and Donald Trump is tempted to come into the state, that will have a lot of Republicans not sleeping a whole lot at night. 
 
ACOSTA: Fasten your seatbelts. 
 
MURPHY: Yes. Exactly. 
 
ACOSTA: All right. Patricia Murphy, thanks so much. Your expertise in Georgia politics is greatly appreciated. Thanks so much. 
 
Coming up, we'll head to another battleground state. Perhaps you've heard of this one. Arizona, where election deniers are on the ballot for governor, Senate, and secretary of state. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:30:00]
 
ACOSTA: Coming up, we'll head to another battleground state. Perhaps you've heard of this one, Arizona, where election deniers are on the ballot for governor, Senate, and secretary of state. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ACOSTA: Welcome back, everybody. You're looking at New York City Major Eric Adams at a "get out the vote" event in New York with Governor Kathy Hochul. 
 
And over in Philadelphia, the crowd is waiting for President Biden and former President Barack Obama, who are rallying for Senate Candidate John Fetterman in that extremely tight Senate race there in Pennsylvania. 
 
I'm here in battleground Georgia. 
 
And with the midterms just three days away, let's head out west to Arizona, another state that could help determine control of the Senate. 
 <br>[15:35:05]
 
CNN's Kyung Lah is live in Phoenix. 
 
Kyung, the Senate race there is also neck and neck. Some of the same dynamics we have seen at play in other states are very much at play on steroids, I might say, in Arizona. 
 
KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Namely, because the Republican tickets, all the candidates at the top of the ticket, have been backed by Donald Trump. It's magnified here, all the issues you have been talking about throughout your program, Jim. 
 
Where I am --- I will give you a quick walk around. This is the "get out the vote" bus tour. The setup is still happening right now. There's a small crowd gathering. But the expectation here is that this is going to be a fully packed place. 
 
The candidates, all four, are traveling together, the nominees for governor, attorney general, secretary of state, as well as U.S. Senate. Again, scheduled to start at the top of the hour. 
 
The Democrats are also out crisscrossing the city of Phoenix, the Phoenix area. I'm in the suburb of Phoenix. Katie Hobbs is out with the bus tour. 
 
But I want you to take a live look at Dr. Jill Biden. She is out supporting Senator Mark Kelly, trying to bring some that national glow to the incumbent for U.S. Senate. 
 
You may notice that the president is not here. He has not been to Arizona during this campaign cycle. But Dr. Biden here trying to urge people to get out the vote. 
 
We are three days away, Jim. You can certainly feel the pressure mounting and the energy in Arizona -- Jim? 
 
ACOSTA: Absolutely. And, Kyung, Blake Masters is hardly the only election denier on the ballot. 
 
How is that issue impacting this race? Is it something Democrats are seizing on and emphasizing, or are they talking about other issues? 
 
LAH: That is part of Senator Kelly's closing message, that democracy is absolutely at issue. And it is most profound in this particular battleground state because of who is on the GOP ticket. That's the argument from Senator Kelly. 
 
Now, what Blake Masters says -- and he is the Republican challenger. What he is arguing is that the issue doesn't matter as much to voters as the more salient issue of the economy as well as border security. 
 
He is leaning in on that. That is his closing message. While we are seeing Senator Kelly close on democracy being at stake -- Jim? 
 
ACOSTA: All right. Kyung Lah doing great work as always for us in the battleground state of Arizona. Thanks very much. Coming up, NBA Star Kyrie Irving finally apologizing after being suspended for posting a link to horrific anti-Semitic comments in a film. Now LeBron James is weighing in on the controversy. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEBRON JAMES, L.A. LAKERS BASKETBALL PLAYER:  -- what Kyrie did caused some harm to a lot of people.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:42:07]
 
ACOSTA: L.A. Lakers Superstar LeBron James is reacting to the news that fellow NBA player, Kyrie Irving, has been suspended after originally refusing to apologize for posting a link to an anti-Semitic film. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES: You know, there's no place in this world for it. Nobody can benefit from that. And I believe what Kyrie did caused some harm to a lot of people. 
 
And he has since, yesterday, I think, apologized. But he caused some harm. And I think it's unfortunate. But I don't stand on a position to harm people when it comes to your voice, or our platform or anything. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: Irving finally posted an apology on Instagram after his suspension began but many see that as much too little much too late. 
 
CNN's Brian Todd has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): NBA Superstar Kyrie Irving at the center of growing controversy. 
 
Irving's team, the Brooklyn Nets, suspending him for at least five games without pay after he was asked at a news conference if he has anti-Semitic beliefs. 
 
KYRIE IRVING, BROOKLYN NETS BASKETBALL PLAYER: I respect all walks of life and embrace all walks of life. 
 
TODD: Then when pressed for a yes-or-no answer -- 
 
IRVING: I cannot be anti-Semitic if I know where I come from. 
 
TODD: The Nets issuing a statement saying:
 
Quote, "We were dismayed that Kyrie refused to unequivocally say he has no anti-Semitic beliefs. We were of the view that he is currently unfit to be associated with the Brooklyn Nets." 
 
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, SPORTS COLUMNIST, USA TODAY: This is a mess. It's a total mess. Why the NBA and the nets didn't handle this immediately and suspend him right away is beyond me. 
 
TODD: Shortly after the suspension was announced Thursday night, the Anti- Defamation League said it's no longer interested in accepting Irving's money, $500,000 Irving had pledged along with another $500,000 from the Nets to work with the ADL to educate people on anti- Semitism. 
 
The ADL's leader saying in a tweet, quote, "After watching the debacle of a press conference, it's clear that Kyrie feels no accountability for his actions." 
 
It was only hours later that Irving finally said this to the Jewish community on Instagram: 
 
Quote, "I am deeply sorry to have caused you pain, and I apologize. I want to clarify any confusion on where I stand fighting against anti- Semitism by apologizing." 
 
BRENNAN: I don't believe the apology goes far enough at all. He's only apologizing after he's suspended and called unfit by the Nets. He did not apologize for days when this was exploding. 
 
TODD: The controversy was sparked more than a week ago when Irving tweeted a link to the film, "Hebrews to Negroes: Wake Up Black America," which civil rights groups say is anti-Semitic. 
 
JONATHAN GREENBLATT, CEO &amp; NATIONAL DIRECTOR, ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE: And at a time in America when we are literally seeing the highest levels of anti-Semitic incidents that we've tracked the ADL in almost 45 years? It was incredibly stunning. 
 <br>[15:45:05]
 
TODD: Pressed for days on that tweet, Kyrie Irving would only double down. The anti-vaxx, flat-earther saying this in that Thursday news conference before the Nets suspended him.
 
IRVING: I didn't mean to cause any harm. I'm not the one who made the documentary. 
 
BOB COSTAS, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: If you or I or any of us provided a link to "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion" or to "Mein Kampf" and then said, oh, I didn't write it, I'm just hoping to illuminate something, shut the hell up.
 
TODD (on camera): Speaking of shutting up or at least staying silent, some of the NBA's biggest-name superstars, players who speak out often on issues of social justice, have remained conspicuously quiet about Irving's tweet on that anti-Semitic film. 
 
One star player, Irving's teammate, Kevin Durant, told reporters he thought the Nets organization should have remained quiet about all this. Later, Durant sought to clarify, tweeting that he doesn't condone anti-Semitism or hate speech. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ACOSTA: All right. Coming up, billion-dollar dreams. Powerball, have you got your ticket yet? Powerball fever grips the nation as the jackpot gross to the world's biggest ever lotto prize. 
 
And take a look at this. You're looking at live pictures now, pictures from just a few moments ago of President Biden arriving in Philadelphia ahead of a planned rally with former President Barack Obama to get out the vote in a critical Senate racing there. 
 
That event is starting a short time from now. We will bring you that in just a few moments. 
 
Also in New York -- get this -- there is Bill Clinton campaigning for Governor Kathy Hochul, rallying a crowd there in New York State as polls show a tighter-than-expected race for Democrats as Hochul is really facing a tough challenge from her Republican opponent, the Trump-backed Lee Zeldin. 
 
I'm here in battleground Georgia. We'll have much more on all of this midterm coverage coming up in just a few moments. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:51:34]
 
ACOSTA: OK, welcome back. We want to quickly go to former President Bill Clinton who is in Brooklyn right now campaigning with Governor Kathy Hochul of New York. 
 
Let's go to that now. 
 
BILL CLINTON, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Folks in OPEC are kind of helping him by trying to cut the production. And the cause of the supply-chain delays mostly because of computer chips, which are made mostly in? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: China.
 
CLINTON: China. 
 
Well, we've actually done something about that, we Democrats. First, Governor Hochul. You won't ever -- Lee Zeldin, he makes it sound like Kathy Hochul gets up every morning, goes to the nearest subway stop and hands out Billy clubs and baseball bats
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CLINTON: -- until everybody gets on the subway, doesn't he? 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CLINTON: Well, he, hmmph.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CLINTON: He looks like he's auditioning to replace Dwayne Johnson in all those movies. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CLINTON: But what has she done? First, she accelerated a billion dollar-plus middle-class tax cut this spring, a homeowner tax credit worth $2.5 million to help 2.5 million New Yorkers. 
 
And now, this is really important with the winter coming. This is about inflation. She is distributing $550 million to help low-income consumers with their home heating bills as the winter comes. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
CLINTON: She did all a governor could do. She suspended the gas tax for a while to help us at the pump. And she has announced the largest investment in childcare subsidies in New York's history. 
 
And she actually has had a very comprehensive plan to improve public safety. 
 
ACOSTA: All right, and there was former President Bill Clinton taking some swipes at Lee Zeldin, the Republican challenger to the incumbent New York Governor Kathy Hochul, who is running for re-election in New York State. 
 
In the meantime, the top-10 CNN Heroes of 2022 have been announced, one of whom will be named the CNN Hero of the Year by you, or viewers. We will be reintroducing each of our top 10 as you vote for your favorite in the next five weeks. 
 
Here is one of them, Bobby Wilson. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOBBY WILSON, CNN HERO: We have turned five acres of land right here in the heart of the city into a green oasis that really impacts the quality of life of people that live around here and visit with us. 
 
Most of the people in this neighborhood don't have access to fruits and vegetables that they can readily get. 
 
My main goal here is to make sure that marginalized and underserved communities have access to locally grown foods that are free of chemicals. 
 <br>[15:55:06]
 
All right, ready?
 
We are more than just a farm. We are about justice, equity, diversity and inclusion. We are changing the dynamics of the way people think about food, the
 
 way people use food. 
 
This work is changing people's lives. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
ACOSTA: Great-looking piece there. Go to CNNheroes.com right now to vote for him for CNN Hero of the Year or any of your favorite top-10 heroes. You can vote for any or all of them up to 10 times a day. Yes, you can do that every day. 
 
We will be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)