Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russian Forces Retreat From Key City Of Kherson; Top U.S. General: 100K Soldiers Killed Or Wounded On Both Sides; Warnock, Walker Launch Runoff Campaigns In Critical GA Senate Race; Awaiting Key Race Results As Control Of Congress Hangs In Balance; Rep. Boebert Currently Leads In Colorado; Ocean Explorers Find 20-Foot Piece Of "Challenger" Space Shuttle. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired November 11, 2022 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:33:54]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(CHANTING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANA CABRERA, CNN HOST: Ukrainian troops entered the key city of Kherson. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(CHANTING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CABRERA: There you hear residents chanting, "Glory to the armed forces of Ukraine." 
 
As of this morning, Russian troops have withdrawn from the west bank of this region and the Ukrainian flag now flies again over the main police headquarters. 
 
Some background here. Kherson was the first major city to fall to Russian forces. Strategically, this is an incredibly important port and a gateway to Crimea. 
 
And back in September, Kherson was one of the four regions illegally annexed by Moscow. Of course, the Kremlin claims Kherson is still a part of Russia. 
 
Let's bring in retires U.S. Army Major John Spencer. He is the author of "Connected Soldiers: Life, Leadership and Social Connections in Modern War." 
 
First, great to see you. Happy Veterans Day. And thank you so much for your service. 
 
What does Russia's retreat from this key region tell you? 
 <br>[13:35:00]
 
MAJ. JOHN SPENSER, U.S. ARMY, RETIRED &amp; CHAIR OF URBAN WARFARE STUDIES, MADISON POLICY FORUM &amp; AUTHOR: Well, thank you, Ana. 
 
It tells me that this is another major turning point in Russia's illegal war in Ukraine. 
 
That, despite knowing that this is coming for weeks, if not months, and rushing the best Russian military troops he had left to the region, he could not hold this pivotal city, even its control of the water to Crimea. 
 
This is a major loss for Russia no matter how they try to spin it. 
 
CABRERA: I'm seeing these images of the people there, so elated, it seems, to have Ukrainian soldiers moving in. 
 
And yet, we're hearing that Russians are destroying critical infrastructure as they retreat, including a bridge over the Dnipro River, which connects Kherson to the eastern part of the region. So this makes it harder for Ukrainians to go after the Russian, I suppose. 
 
Is that just desperation by Russia? What's their strategy here? 
 
SPENCER: Yes, 100 percent desperation, Ana. Their strategy has made no sense really all throughout this war. 
 
And unfortunately, I think we're going to discover not just those explosions they're doing, trying to cover what's now a rout, not an organized retreat like we saw in Kharkiv back in September.
 
But unfortunately, we're going to probably discover what we discovered or what they have discovered in every liberated area of Russia, the horrors, the war crimes, the torture chambers, the mass graves. I'm not looking forward to what is discovered. 
 
CABRERA: What does Ukraine need to do in this moment? 
 
SPENCER: Yes, Ukraine has to be very cautious. And they've already sent out words that people want back into their homes, move back to this -- it's always been Ukraine, but now liberated areas.
 
But there's still reports of Russian soldiers in civilian clothes. Of course, they'll lay booby traps, like they did in all areas. Even kids' toys booby-trapped to explode. 
 
So Ukraine has to very slowly, methodically clear these areas to make them safe for habitat.
 
Plus, the Russians aren't that far away. They just retreated to the other side of the river. So they could still artillery barrage or bomb the city in more acts of desperation and hate. 
 
CABRERA: Joint Chiefs chair, General Mark Milley, just gave this stark and sobering assessment of losses during this invasion. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEN. MARK MILLEY, CHAIR, U.S. JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF: You're looking at well over 100,000 Russian soldiers killed and wounded. Same thing probably on the Ukrainian side. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CABRERA: So 100,000 Russians, 100,000 Ukrainian soldiers as well. And he said on top of that, about 40,000 innocent Ukrainian civilians have been killed. 
 
What's your reaction to these numbers? 
 
SPENCER: I mean, it's awful, Ana. And I wish we would continue to help and help more, so that Ukraine can defeat the Russian forces militarily and cause them to culminate in Ukraine.
 
I mean, those numbers just show the dead. Usually, we times the dead by three to five times for wounded. So 300,000, 400,000 Russians wounded or killed in Ukraine for Putin's illegal war. 
 
Plus, the 700,000 men who escaped his attempt to draft more soldiers in desperation. He is destroying the Russian state. 
 
And, of course, I feel for the Ukrainian people. And after having visited, I mean, they're fighting for their freedom and for their nation, much like our story of independence.
 
So hopefully -- I agree with General Milley that hopefully we can cause this war to end soon. 
 
CABRERA: I think what's happening in Ukraine is really shining a spotlight on what soldiers more broadly have to endure. You know it firsthand. You served two combat tours in Iraq. 
 
Do you feel like this generation maybe has a better understanding and appreciation because of the technology, social media and so forth of what servicemembers and their families go through? 
 
SPENCER: I sure hope so. I mean, this is the passion that drove me to write my book, that that connectivity of the soldier with his family and with the world, as we're seeing even in Ukraine with Ukrainian soldiers staying connected to their families that had to flee. 
 
It should connect the world to the cause on which the soldiers are fighting. The soldier is fighting for his families and for his fellow soldiers. They're also fighting for freedom, in general. 
 
It is both a positive and a negative. But this is why I think the world is helping Ukraine, is because we understand that pain that the soldiers are going through. 
 
CABRERA: Major John Spencer, thank you so much for joining us. And again, thank you so much for your service and your family's service and sacrifice. 
 
SPENCER: Thank you, Ana. 
 <br>[13:40:03]
 
Democrats are down right now in the House races as they're still rolling out the results across the country. But are Dems out? What to watch in this high-stakes battle for control of Congress. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:45:06]
 
CABRERA: Believe it or not, midterm campaign season just got started all over again last night. Republican candidate, Herschel Walker, holding a rally in Georgia's critical Senate runoff, enlisting the help of GOP Senator Ted Cruz. 
 
A rematch is now set for Walker and Democratic Senator Raphael Warnock on December 6th since neither candidate hit 50 percent. 
 
That's one of three undecided Senate seats, along with Arizona and Nevada, that will determine who controls the chamber.
 
And as for the House control, that is also up in the air. The magic number is 218. Neither party is there yet because numerous races are still too close to call. 
 
So here to break it all down, especially those House numbers right now, is CNN senior data reporter, Harry Enten. 
 
What is the state of play, Harry? 
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Yes, so, you know, you're talking about that House seat -- the balance of power right now. And on the CNN projections, 211 for Republicans, 198 seats for Democrats. 
 
I got to be honest with you, Ana, I was not thinking I would be here with the House not called yet on Friday when the election was on Tuesday. 
 
But to give you an idea of who is leading at this point, the most sort of likely House after everything is counted, right now, leading the vote, Republicans at 221 to Democrats' 214. That is way too close to call given all of the remaining seats right now. 
 
This is unbelievable. I was just never expecting it. I thought the Republicans would run away with House control. That clearly has not happened. 
 
CABRERA: So is there a way Democrats hold onto the House? 
 
ENTEN: So, let's take a look at some of the remaining races that I think are important to note.
 
And I'm going to start up in Maryland Six where, right now, the Democratic candidate has a small lead. The reason I'm pointing out that race is because, two hours ago, the Republican was ahead. 
 
So this gives you an idea there's still a lot of votes to be counted and, yes, it could certainly flip. 
 
We'll take a look up in here. California's House 13th district. California takes a long time to count the votes because of vote by mail. You see, look here, just 44 percent, just 44 percent of the estimated vote in. And look at that, a margin of less than a point. 
 
Go down to Arizona House Six. Look at that. Just a two-point margin, 82 percent of the vote is in. Plenty of vote out there.
 
And House 22, California, David Valadao's seat there, four years ago, he was leading for about a month after election day before that district finally flipped over to the Democrats. And there's only 32 percent of the estimated vote in. 
 
So, yes, Republicans are favored, but this is still up for grabs. There's still reason for people to be tuning in. 
 
CABRERA: What about in Colorado with controversial Republican Congressman Lauren Boebert's race? 
 
ENTEN: Yes, so basically, what's going on out in Colorado, at this particular point, you can see Lauren Boebert does have an advantage, 50.2 percent to 49.8 percent. 
 
My guess is that Boebert holds on, right? Yesterday, Boebert was behind. Some of those late votes came in. She was able to take the lead. 
 
But the fact that we're even talking about this just goes back to sort of my shock in general during this entire segment. This is not where I thought we were going to be. And this race is sort of indicative of all that. 
 
CABRERA: I know this sort of stuff fuels you, Harry, but I also know you have had like no sleep this week at all. Thank you for staying up for us on this Friday. 
 
ENTEN: Any time I can join you, Ana. 
 
And let me say, your marathon run -- I was watching you on Sunday -- and it was probably one of the more impressive things. So we've both been through different types of marathons. 
 
CABRERA: It's always a marathon, right, every week. 
 
Thank you so much, Harry --
 
ENTEN: Thank you.
 
CABRERA: -- for your kind words. 
 
ENTEN: Yes.
 
CABRERA: I appreciate you. 
 <br>[13:48:43]
 
Explorers searching the Atlantic Ocean for World War II artifacts make a stunning discovery. It wasn't what they were looking for. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:53:18]
 
CABRERA: Ocean explorers were on a quest for World War II artifacts, but what they found was from a completely different era. 
 
CNN's space and defense correspondent, Kristin Fisher, joins us now. 
 
What did they find? 
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE &amp; DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: Ana, this is so fascinating because these filmmakers and this underwater crew, they were actually filming a series called "The Bermuda Triangle, Into Cursed Water." 
 
Now they did not find this actually inside the Bermuda Triangle, but just outside of it. They came across what you see on your screen there, and you can you the very distinctive white square tiles. 
 
What they are, are heat shields -- heat shield tiles from space shuttle "Challenger." And so they thought that's what they were. They weren't 100 percent sure. 
 
The lead explorer brought it to one of his friends who is a former NASA astronaut. He confirmed it but was like, you've got to take it to NASA. 
 
And so just this week, NASA confirmed it that, yes, what you're looking at right there is a piece of space shuttle "Challenger." 
 
Which, of course, blew up about 37 years ago in January of 1986, killing those seven astronauts, including Krista McAuliffe, who was going to become, of course, the very first teacher in space. 
 
That's a 20-foot-long section there. And those are the heat shield actual that would have protected the shuttle as it re-entered the earth's atmosphere if it had gotten that far, Ana. 
 
Of course, they did not. "Challenger" blowing up just about 70 seconds after it lifted off the launch pad. But now you know.
 
But the big question, what does NASA do with it. And this is still U.S. government property. 
 <br>[13:55:01]
 
Ana, they say they're not quite sure what they're going to do with it just yet. They just want to do something to honor the memory and the legacy of those seven astronauts that were killed. 
 
CABRERA: Absolutely. What an amazing discovery. 
 
Kristin Fisher, thank you for that reporting.
 
It turns out giving a blue check mark to anyone with eight bucks was a bad idea. Twitter is now suspending Elon Musk's effort to let anyone get verified for that monthly fee. 
 
As we mentioned with CNN's Donie O'Sullivan, this move had sparked a surge in fake accounts that looked legit, including a verified Jesus account that tweeted, quote, "Who has two thumbs and verified?" 
 
It's not clear when this pay-for-verification plan will return, if ever. 
 
That does it for us today. Thanks for being here. I'll see you at the same time, same place on Monday. Have a great weekend. 
 
Stay with CNN for the latest vote count in these midterm elections. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)