Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Chinese Protesters Erupt in Anger; White House Cautious of Its Words Over China; Iranian Team Face Threats From Home; Ukrainians Don't Cave in to Russian Threats; Russians Not Leaving Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant; NATO Leaders Meets in Romania. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired November 29, 2022 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead here on CNN Newsroom, police are out in force in cities across China as the government attempts to crack down on an unprecedented number of protests.
 
Warnings of a critical humanitarian situation in Ukraine, as millions could face the coming winter without power or heat. 
 
Plus, threats of torture. Sources say the families of Iran's football team face violence or prison if players protest at the World Cup.
 
UNKNOWN:  Live from CNN center, this is CNN Newsroom with Rosemary Church. 
 
CHURCH:  Good to have you with us. Well, in China Police are out in full force and the government is tightening online censorship, hoping to prevent more scenes like these.
 
(CROWD CHANTING)
 
CHURCH:  Thousands of people protesting strict COVID lockdowns and the Communist Party's firm grip on all aspects of life. CNN has verified protests in 15 cities with dozens more reported, but the Chinese foreign ministry claims media accounts do not reflect what actually happened. 
 
Meantime, China reported more than 38,000 new COVID cases on Monday. It is the first day in nearly a week that didn't set a new record. Panic over the pandemic and Beijing's response sent Wall Street plunging. The Dow dropped nearly 500 points or one and a half percent on Monday. 
 
The protest started after COVID restrictions reportedly slowed firefighters response to a deadly fire in Xinjiang province last week.
 
CNN's Ivan Watson spoke exclusively to the families of some of the victims. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Anger on the streets of Chinese cities. The biggest nationwide display of discontent this tightly controlled country has seen in a generation. Protestors pushing back against police and the government's zero COVID policy.
 
The unrest triggered by a deadly fire in Urumqi in China's western Xinjiang region last Thursday. Videos emerge of fire hoses barely reaching the blaze, which killed at least 10 people. Among them, Haiernishahan Abdureheman and four of her children.
 
WATSON (on camera):  What happened to your mother and your brothers and sisters? 
 
SHARAPAT MOHAMMAD ALI, FAMILY KILLED IN APARTMENT FIRE (through translator):  The fire started on the 15th floor. The smoke poisoned my family. The government could not stop the fire in time. 
 
WATSON:  Two surviving adult children of Haiernishahan speak to me from Turkey. Unable to see their family since 2017 due to the harsh crackdown, the government accused of putting up to two million of their fellow ethnic Uyghurs and members of other minorities in internment camps. They say their loved ones were trapped in the building by COVID measures. 
 
MOHAMMAD MOHAMMAD ALI, FAMILY KILLED IN APARTMENT FIRE (through translator):  They could not escape because the fire escape was blocked and the fire escape to the roof of the building was also locked. 
 
WATSON:  Accusation CNN cannot independently confirm, but Chinese authorities have been seen literally locking residents into buildings. Outrage over the Urumqi fire compounded by previous deadly incidents in recent months, directly linked to COVID prevention. Though CNN verified 16 protests in 11 Chinese cities this weekend, a Chinese government official told a journalist, they just didn't happen. 
 
ZHAO LIJIAN, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESMAN (through translator): What you mentioned does not reflect what actually happened. China has been following the dynamic zero COVID policy and has been making adjustments based on realities on the ground. 
 
WATSON:  On Monday, the white papers that have become a symbol of the protests in mainland China, spread here to Hong Kong where these small groups of demonstrators are holding a vigil for what they say are the victims of China's zero COVID policy.
 
JAMES, PROTESTER FROM SHANGHAI:  I am a victim. I cannot go home for many years, like two to three years, right? My parents were locked down for three months, and even relatives of my good friends they suicide because of the lockdowns.
 <br>[03:05:09] WATSON:  With China reporting record breaking new daily cases of COVID, there appears to be no end to the lockdowns in sight. Meanwhile, siblings Mohammad and Sharapat cannot even pray for closure after suffering the unimaginable loss of five immediate members of their family. 
 
Will you go home for the funeral of your family?
 
MOHHAMAD (through translator):  We want to attend the funeral of our family members. But if we went back now, China will put us in jail or even torture us.
 
WATSON:  Ivan Watson, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  And we go live now to Hong Kong where CNN's Kristie Lu Stout is tracking the latest developments. She joins us now. Good to see you, Kristie. So, what -- what are you learning about China's crackdown on protestors across the country? 
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, in the wake of these sweeping protests, we know that China has been tightening security in Beijing, in Shanghai. Police are out in force on patrol and Shanghai authorities there have been setting up these big blue barriers on Wulumuqi Street, which was the scene of those dramatically defiant protests over the weekend.
 
And CNN has also learned that protestors have been rounded up. In fact, one protestor who is detained and later released in Shanghai said that Shanghai police detained 80 to 110 protestors after a protest took place on Saturday. 
 
The protestor also told CNN that the Shanghai police collected biometric data of those who were detained, including their fingerprints, their photographs, their retinal scans as well. It's unclear if these individuals remain in detention. 
 
On Monday, in Beijing and Shanghai, no signs of major protests, but there were protests elsewhere. In fact, we have video to share a protest that took place last night, Monday in Hangzhou where there was a tense confrontation between protestors and police there in a shopping center in this major economic and e-commerce hub.
 
CNN has verified that there have been 20 COVID related protests in 15 different cities across the country. Let's show the map to you so you can have an understanding of the reach of these anti-zero COVID protests that had been taking place in Hangzhou, in Beijing, in Chengdu, Chongqing, Guangzhou, Urumqi, Xian, Wuhan and elsewhere. 
 
There was also an extremely rare protest that took place last night here in Hong Kong. Very rare in the wake of the national security law being opposed here on the territory, and some protestors that took place in that vigil were holding white sheets of paper, a symbol of censorship, which has become a symbol of these protests. A lot of pressure is on China right now to unwind and find a way out of its zero COVID policy. Experts that we've been talking to say that it requires a change in medical capacity, a change in medical messaging about the virus, and also, higher vaccination rates. 
 
What we've been monitoring a National Health Commission press conference that just took place in China, and they've just announced plans to boost the COVID-19 vaccination rate among the elderly. And an NHC spokesperson also said that the lockdowns should be lifted, quote, "as quickly as possible to reduce inconvenience for the people." A very significant step forward in the wake of these protests.
 
Back to you, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH:  Exactly the measures people have been asking for. 
 
LU STOUT:  Yes.
 
CHURCH:  Kristie Lu Stout joining us live from Hong Kong. Many thanks.
 
LU STOUT:  Thank you. 
 
CHURCH:  Well, the Biden administration is taking a cautious approach to the demonstrations in China, saying the U.S. supports the right to peaceful protest.
 
More now from CNN's chief White House correspondent Phil Mattingly.
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, as the world watches what plays out in China right now, to some degree surprising on so many different levels in terms of the scale of the protest, how widespread they have been up to this point, White House officials are doing the same exact thing very closely, watching how things play out, supporting protestors right to peacefully, continuing to question the viability of the zero COVID policy that's been in place.
 
But also, putting some degree of caution in place here. When you talk to White House officials, they made clear there's simply a lot of things that they are not willing to say. Certainly, not willing to echo protestors calls for Chinese leader Xi Jinping to step down and some of the other issues that they've raised up to this point.
 
In part, that's because this is very early stage, very unpredictable officials will acknowledge. But also, that it comes just two weeks after the first sit down between President Biden and Chinese leader Xi Jinping, a sit down that started to ratchet down tensions that had leach -- reached an unprecedented level, at least over the course of the last several decades.
 
Those are steps that White House officials want to maintain despite what's going on, on the ground. And it's a question that I posed to John Kirby, the White House spokesperson, in terms of what that would mean for how the U.S. reacts to these protests. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[03:09:58]
 
MATTINGLY:  Is there any concern, or will that those steps have any effect on how the U.S. responds to any Chinese response to the protests that are currently undertaking?
 
JOHN KIRBY, SPOKESMAN, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL:  I think we're going to have to watch this going forward, Phil. What I can tell you is, as you and I are talking today, there's been no change to our desire to continue to see these channels of communications stay open.
 
And we were heartened coming away from the G20 that both leaders were able to agree on getting some of these working level discussions back open. And so, we're still in that mode, Phil, where we want to continue to get those -- get those discussions back up in play. And as for whether or not they'll be an impact from the protest, we're just going to have to, I think we're just, as I said, we're going to watch this and see where it goes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY:  As White House officials continue to watch very closely, Kirby made clear that President Biden is watching closely as well, has been briefed several times about what's going on. Also, really underscoring the point that this is very early stage and White House officials can't really predict where things are going to go.
 
One thing that is very clear, however, they're not willing to get in front of developments on the ground. The dynamics here from a bilateral perspective, a geopolitical perspective, come across the board very much hanging over every move. White House officials make caution even as they support the right to peaceful protest.
 
Phil Mattingly, CNN, the White House.
 
CHURCH:  In Monday's World Cup action, top ranked Brazil defeated Switzerland one-nil. This was the scene as Brazilian fans celebrated back home. The victory clinched Brazil spot in the round of 16, and joining them Portugal, who punched their ticket to the knockout round after defeating Uruguay, two-nil.
 
World Sports Don Riddell has the highlights.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  Nobody has a World Cup record quite like Brazil. They've won the tournament a record five times, but it's been a while. And 2002 now seems like a lifetime ago. However, at this tournament, they have so far justified their billing as one of the favorites. 
 
On Monday night here in Qatar, the Selesao edge passed Switzerland in group G with the late gold from Manchester's United midfielder, Casemiro. Thanks to their earlier win over Serbia, they're now guaranteed to qualify for the knockout round alongside the holders France. One of the games of the tournament played out elsewhere in group G, Serbia came from behind to take a three-one lead against Cameroon. Aleksandar Mitrovic seemed to have given his side an unassailable advantage, but the indomitable Lions fought back with two goals in just four minutes.
 
Vincent Aboubakar and Jean-Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting secured a thrilling draw for Cameroon. They still have it all to do though. In order to stay in the tournament, Cameroon will have to beat the favorites Brazil and hope that the other game goes in their favor. If Switzerland avoid losing to Serbia, they're through.
 
In group H, another thrilling game involving in African side Ghana threw away a two-nil lead against South Korea. Re-equalize with a thundering header from Cho Gue-sung, but the black stars weren't rattled and kudos to Mohammed Kudus, who secured a famous win for his team. 
 
Portugal won the late game of the day against Uruguay. It looked as though Cristiano Ronaldo had put them ahead, but his head mustn't have actually touched the ball because his former Man-U teammate, Bruno Fernandez was credited with the score and he later made the game safe with a penalty. 
 
So, Portugal also joined Brazil and France in the knockout round. The other three teams in this group still have a chance, and next up it's a grudge match between Ghana and Uruguay. Tuesday marks the start of the final round of group games, and therefore a lot of teams are soon going to be packing their bags. Back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  And here's a preview of today's matches. In group A, the Netherlands and Ecuador lead with four points each. Senegal is right behind with three. The Dutch play against Qatar, which has already been eliminated. Ecuador and Senegal will face off likely determining which of them advance to the next round. In Group B, leaders England are looking to lock up a spot in the round of 16 with a win against Wales and the U.S. must win its match against Iran or go home.
 
Well, the U.S. and Iran match will be about more than just soccer. It'll be marked by a new controversy. At issue is an altered image of the Iranian flag that was shared on team USA's social media accounts. The U.S. Soccer Federation displayed the flag without the emblem of the Islamic Republic to show support for protestors demanding human rights in Iran.
 
The American football coach has apologized for the federation's move saying the team itself was not involved. He and his Iranian counterpart have been trying to downplay the drama to focus on the game ahead. 
 <br>[03:15:06]
 
Well, on top of all that controversy, it looks like Iran's players could be facing severe government pressure over their behavior days after the team declined to sing the national anthem in an apparent show of support for protests at home. A security source says the players have been warned against further acts of defiance. According to the source their families could face imprisonment or even torture if they snub the anthem again, or if they join any political protest against the government. 
 
Well, let's get more on the political pressure Iranian players are facing, as well as the tension surrounding their upcoming match. And for that, we turn to CNN's Nada Bashir who joins us live from London. 
 
Good to see you again, Nada. So, what more are you learning about all of this? 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER:  Well look, Rosemary, we've seen Iranian athletes competing overseas falling under pressure from the Iranian regime time and time again, and now it appears that the Iranian football team is no exception to that. 
 
Of course, we did see the team in their opening match against England declining to sing the national anthem and what was an apparent show of solidarity with the protest movement at home. But that changed in their second game. We saw team members singing the national anthem, albeit quietly and facing cheers and boos from some supporters in the stands, many of whom of course, wearing shirts carrying the name of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini or the slogan women, life, freedom, which has come to characterize this protest movement. 
 
Now we are learning from a source working closely on the security of the games that the Iranian national football team players and their loved ones and family members at home have faced threats from the Iranian regime, that if the team members take part in any form of protest or refuse to sing the national anthem ahead of today's game against the United States, that their loved ones back home could face persecution at the hands of the Iranian regime, and in particular, violence, torture and imprisonment. 
 
Now, according to this source, the players were called into a meeting with representatives of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard corps, in which they were warned that if they do take part in any movement and their family members back home could face violence or imprisonment. 
 
And according to this source, there has been an uptick in the number of Iranian security officials overseeing and monitoring the squad as they participate in the World Cup Games. According to this source, and the team members are facing severe restrictions, unable to mingle or discuss anything with members of players outside of the squad. 
 
And while we have heard from Iran's, head coach Carlos Queiroz speaking to members of the press just yesterday, saying that his team members stand in solidarity with all human rights causes across the globe. He didn't directly address the protest movement at home in Iran. But he did has previously said that his players are free to protest in any way they wish, providing that their actions fall within FIFA regulations. 
 
But of course, there is concern over the safety of the players and their loved ones. This is rhetoric we've heard before from the Iranian regime, of course, in relation to athletes competing overseas.
 
According to this source, Queiroz himself was called into a meeting with a representative of the IRGC where the contents of that conversation is still unclear. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH:  All right. Nada Bashir joining us live from London. Many thanks. 
 
Coming up next, defiance and desperation in Kherson. CNN travels to southern Ukraine for a look at the struggles residents there are now facing.
 
Plus, support for Ukraine will be high on the agenda as NATO foreign ministers are now gathering in Romania. We will have a preview of their meeting. We're back in just a moment. 
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Ukrainian officials say at least four missiles struck the central city of Dnipro overnight sparking a fire and causing severe damage. Meantime, in the south, the U.N. is describing a dire and critical situation in the cities of Mykolaiv and Kherson as residents struggle with a lack of water, heat, and power. 
 
Making Matters worse in Kherson, constant shelling by Russian forces. Civilians in the recently liberated city continue to flee as more attacks target residential areas.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator):  As every single day the occupiers against shell Kherson and the regions communities. In just one week, the enemy struck 30 settlements. Settlements of our Kherson region 258 times. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  The mayor of Mykolaiv says the city has lost its water supply again after another Russian strike on the country's infrastructure. At the same time, Ukraine's electricity operator says it's running at a 27 percent deficit after a series of emergency shutdowns at power plants across the country. The company says power use is on the rise as the weather gets colder. 
 
Power and water shortages are a harsh reality in Kherson where it's been more than two weeks since Russian forces withdrew from the city. Now desperation is growing for the residents who remain as the winter months are fast approaching.
 
CNN's Matthew Chance reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The devastation Russia's retreating forces left behind. A village in southern Ukraine torn to shreds and until now abandoned to this war.
 
But Larry told me he's lived here 51 years and after evacuating for eight months, he's home to stay even amid this wreckage. "It's like a stone weighing on my soul, he says. We built everything here with our own hands. It's hard to look with those Russians scum victims here."
 
A short distance away in newly liberated Kherson, a pool of blood where Russia is attacking the city it just left behind. Four were killed when this grocery store was hit. Now one desperate resident picks through the debris looting scraps of food and toilet paper. Is everything so bad, we ask. "It's not good," he responds. 
 
All right. Well, getting basic supplies though in Kherson has become a massive risk. We've come to the seaport, well, it's the riverport really, right on the Dnipro River with this woman here Tatiana (Ph) from Kherson, to collect water so she can do her washing up and wash her clothes and go to the toilet and things like that. 
 
The water supplies have been completely cut off by the Russians. This is the only way, and you can hear the artillery shells going off soon in the background. This is the only way she can get water for her house, and it's dangerous because this is basically the front line. The Russian forces have retreated to the -- to the other bank, right?
 
(FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
CHANCE:  Yes, so the Russian forces are just across the river. But the risk is one that has to be taken. " What can we do? Tatiana asks, we can't live without water." There's little electricity either, and people are cramming into makeshift charging stations like this one just to stay connected. 
 <br>[03:24:59]
 
We found defiance here, too, in the face of hardship. "There's no water or power, Hannah (Ph) tells me, but also no Russians, so we will get through this." 
 
What do you think? "I think our enemies will all die soon," says Nastia (Ph), who only just turned nine. We'll show them what you get for occupying Ukraine," she says.
 
For many, the hardships are already too much, roads out of Kherson crammed with residents trying to leave. But for those who stay, it is a desperate struggle to survive.
 
Matthew Chance, CNN, Kherson.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Officials in Moscow are denying claims from Ukraine that Russian forces are planning to withdraw from the nuclear power plant in Zaporizhzhia.
 
CNN's Sam Kiley has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The head of Ukraine's Atomic energy industry has said that Russia, he believes, is planning to leave the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant which it captured back in March. Now his allegations have got very little substance behind them other than he says information he's picked up on the internet and indications from people on the ground in the city nearby that the Russians appear to be preparing to make some kind of move. 
 
But this should be seen really in the context of the ongoing psychological war between the two countries who are also, of course, involved in a physical war. Because Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station is a major strategic asset for the Russians.
 
At its peak, it supplies 20 percent of the power of the electrical power into the Ukrainian energy structures, those very structures that have been under relentless attack by Russian cruise missiles for the last month resulting, for example, in the city of Kyiv, the capital having to reduce its energy consumption, they hope by 60 percent just to keep the essential service functioning. 
 
So, it's very unlikely that the Russians would give that up. On top of that, it is an important military base for them. They've been using it and its environment to shell against Ukrainian positions, Ukrainian civilian towns on the other side of the Dnipro River. And if they were to evacuate it, it would become a bridgehead for any kind of future Ukrainian operations to try to recapture more of the southern territory with the ultimate eye on the Crimean Peninsula, which of course Russia illegally annexed back in 2014, 2015. 
 
But this is all coming at a time when the Ukrainian government has also announced that 32,000 civilian targets have been deliberately hit by Russia. They're saying that outside of the front line, only 3 percent of the targets struck by Russia could be described as military.
 
Now, of course, this is again, a Ukrainian claim that have been hotly refuted by Russia. 
 
Sam Kiley, CNN, in Zaporizhzhia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  And support for Ukraine will be high on the agenda at a meeting of NATO foreign ministers which begin soon in Romania. They will also discuss ways to strengthen their resilience, as well as the challenges posed by China. Finland and Sweden are not NATO members yet, but they will be attending.
 
And CNN's Salma Abdelaziz joins us now live from London with more. So, Salma, what is expected to come out of this NATO meeting of foreign ministers? 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. So just a few moments ago, we heard NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg speak open this two- day meeting in Bucharest for these foreign ministers. And of course, he started by addressing the agenda. The top of that is Ukraine continuing to support the counteroffensive on the ground. 
 
And you're going to hear that phrase that we've heard over and over again, Rosemary, which is that Ukraine's allies will stand with Ukraine for as long as it takes to achieve that victory that President Zelenskyy has promised his people and his allies.
 
And you can expect that they'll be discussing how to continue to get there. First of course, there is the matter of aid, military aid. What do soldiers, Ukrainian soldiers need on those front lines, addressing the request that President Zelenskyy has made time and time again, which is to get more air defense systems.
 
Now we've seen in recent weeks Ukraine becoming ever more successful at shooting down Russian missiles. At times when these barrages come towards Ukraine, Ukrainian forces are able to shoot down about half of them, or even over half of them. but still many hitting their targets. So President Zelenskyy pleading yet again with allies to send those air defense systems to save lives.
 
There's also going to be questions about supply. How do individual NATO countries continue to provide weapons to Ukraine while also continuing to have their own supplies, backfill their own supplies. How do they push manufacturers, weapons manufacturers to produce these weapons more quickly? 
 <br>[03:30:00] 
 
So that'll also be a matter of discussion. And then of course there is nonlethal aid. And this is going to be really crucial, Rosemary, as I've said over the last few weeks and months, Russia has really launched this sustained campaign against Ukraine civilian infrastructure. 
 
Its electrical grids, its water system, its cell phone towers to really make life this winter as difficult as possible for innocent families very far from those front lines. So, NATO allies are going to be looking at providing fuel, transmitters, equipment to fix these power grids, food, winter supplies, anything they really can to toughen up Ukraine across the winter.
 
But, yet again, you're going to hear that pledge of support, that promise to stand with Ukraine and strengthen defenses across the region in the face of Russia's aggression. Rosemary? 
 
CHURCH:  All right. Salma Abdelaziz joining us live from London. Many thanks. 
 
In the hours ahead, French President Emmanuel Macron is expected to arrive in Washington to kick off a state visit. Officials say he will meet with U.S. President Joe Biden on Thursday at the White House, where they will discuss pressing issues including the war in Ukraine, trade, and climate change. 
 
Mr. Macron is also expected to meet with other officials throughout the week in an effort to strengthen French-American ties.
 
Well, time for a short break. We will have the latest on the protest in China and explain why demonstrators are holding blank sheets of white paper. Back with that in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  More now on our top story this hour. The Chinese government is trying to quell protests over its unrelenting COVID restrictions and calls for political change. There's a strong police presence in cities where crowds have been gathering, including Shanghai where a protestor says police detained as many as 110 people on Saturday night alone.
 
CNN cannot independently verify that number.
 
(CROWD CHANTING)
 
CHURCH:  This was a gathering in Chengdu on Sunday where protestors chanted their demands. It's a rare look at people openly defying the government even in Beijing, showing how tired Chinese citizens have become of what some view as suffocating COVID measures. One U.S. officials says China needs to seriously consider what its people are asking for.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[03:34:58]
 
JOHN KIRBY, SPOKESMAN, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL:  This is a moment for, you know, for the -- for the Chinese people and the Chinese government to speak to. We have been nothing but clear and consistent, people should be allowed the right to assemble and to peacefully protest policies or laws or dictates that they take issue with.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  CNN's Selina Wang has been speaking with protestors out on the streets of Beijing. She filed this report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(CROWD CHANTING)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  They chant Xi Jinping stepped down, an extraordinary show of defiance in China. In Shanghai, they chant for freedom, democracy, and end to COVID lockdowns. Even targeting the Communist Party and the supreme leader himself.
 
(CROWD CHANTING)
 
WANG:  Unprecedented protests are erupting across China from major metropolises to elite college campuses, even far-flung cities. Searing nationwide anger triggered by a deadly fire in China's far west Xinjiang region. Water unable to actually reach the fire blazing from the high floor of the apartment building. Videos indicate COVID restrictions prevented fire trucks from getting
 
 close enough, apparently blocked by fences and metal barriers normally used during lockdowns. "In the building's chat group, a mother pleads, "help us, my kids are dying. We don't have enough oxygen."
 
At least 10 people died. The nation grieving the deaths of victims that likely spent the last months of their lives trapped in that building. 
 
(CROWD CHANTING) 
 
WANG:  Most of Xinjiang has been locked down for more than a hundred days. The protests even spilling into the capital. They're chanting that they don't want COVID tests, they want freedom, and many people are also holding white papers in their hands, which is a sign of solidarity against censorship. 
 
(CROWD CHANTING) 
 
WANG:  They sing and cheer, shout to be unsealed, and some even break down into tears. A man with a loud speaker shouts, "we always support the Communist Party, but we want democracy and freedom." 
 
I asked a protestor how he was feeling, "overwhelmed," he said. "All conscientious Chinese people should come here and stand together." I said, you realize there's a risk being here? "Of course, there is," he responded.
 
And if we just turn the camera around, you'll see there is a row of police. Hours later, masses of police filed in pushing the protestors back. Demonstrators shout towards the authorities. "We are not your enemy. We are in this together."
 
These are unbelievable scenes in China where public criticism of the party can lead to prison time or even worse. In Shanghai, police arrested roughed up protestors, violently dragging them into cars. No protests of this scale demanding political reforms have been seen since the Tiananmen pro-democracy protests in 1989 that led to a massacre of unarmed protestors. 
 
(CROWD CHANTING)
 
WANG:  These demonstrators know what they're risking, but they're determined to make their voices heard. 
 
Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Earlier, I spoke with Richard McGregor about the protest. He is a senior fellow at the Lowy Institute. And he says Beijing may be able to stamp out the protest, but the more pressing matter is getting new infections under control. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RICHARD MCGREGOR, SENIOR FELLOW, LOWY INSTITUTE:  There's no doubt that Chinese authorities will do whatever it takes to suppress the protests. I don't think there's any doubt about that. In fact, I think it's pretty clear that they'll be able to suppress the protest in a way that they're not able to suppress the COVID virus. 
 
And I guess that's their real problem because they can get people off the street and that, you know, they're well prepared for these kind of things. They've got a vast security apparatus. But the root cause of this is really the harsh enforcement of COVID zero over a long period of time. And underlying that, you know, the all-powerful party in Xi Jinping.
 
And you might be able to solve the protests in the short term. You can't solve the COVID zero issue nearly so easily. 
 
CHURCH:  Indeed. I mean, China's vaccines have not been very successful, have they? And now, of course, COVID infections are soaring, which means Beijing is doubling down on its zero COVID policy. 
 <br>[03:39:59]
 
But when this wave eventually passes, how likely is it that President Xi might try to find a way to relax his failed zero COVID policy while somehow saving face, because it's really about that, isn't it? 
 
MCGREGOR:  Well, there's no doubt at some stage China will chart a course out of COVID zero. But a number of things have to happen first. I suspect they won't do it in winter, and we are going into winter in Beijing. I suspect it won't happen before March. That's when we have the National People's Congress and a new cabinet will be appointed. They're all important events, which will have an impact on this. 
 
And also, you know, China has vast, you know, state powers, if you like, but they haven't been put to application for vaccines. And it's not just that the Chinese vaccines aren't as effective at protecting people from the virus. It's also that the -- they haven't been ramped up. 
 
I mean, there's about 32 million people in China are over 80. Only about 40 percent are properly vaccinated according to WHO standards. So, there's a lot of vulnerable people in China. And until you fix that up, you know, is the country is unlikely to open because, you know, a lot of people could get infected and vulnerable people could die. And I don't think Xi Jinping wants to allow that to happen. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Our thanks to Richard McGregor for that conversation last hour.
 
It's been just over a week since the Persian Gulf nation of Qatar became the center of the football universe, and the matches have not disappointed. More surprising has been how much politics and off-field issues have impacted the World Cup. Our Becky Anderson spoke with World Sports Don Riddell and Amanda
 
 Davies about their impressions one week into the tournament.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  I mean, I've had a great time. It's my first World Cup. I've been waiting my whole lifetime to cover one. I know it's controversial. We've been talking about all of those stories and rightly so. But the experience here on the ground I think has been amazing. 
 
I've loved the culture. I've loved the people, the sites, the sounds, the taste, the smells, the stadiums are amazing. And the games that I've seen at least have almost all of them been absolute classics. 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD ANCHOR:  I mean, I think it can be sums off in one word, which is nuts. And I mean, I mean that from a footballing perspective with the first tournament with four games a day because we know this is going to be so condensed, but also because every single day there have been more and more of the off the field issues, the political stories, the societal issues.
 
And it really seems to me as a -- as a tournament that is reflecting where we are a bit more in society where sports is more comfortable whether people like it or not addressing these bigger issues. 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN ANCHOR:  I don't remember a more political World Cup.
 
DAVIES:  You like, I, have been here a number of times over the last few years and seen the kind of evolution of the journey, and I think what has upset a few people in this last couple of days is those split-second decisions that when you've had 12 years in a run up to a World Cup and there has been a way of doing things. And there is a process that has maybe rubbed people off the wrong way. 
 
ANDERSON:  One of the decisions, which is being called out again and again, is not allowing Iranians to demonstrate their support within the stadiums for the women and very brave men of Iran. And, you know, obviously the Iranian story here and that of demonstrations is a big one. 
 
RIDDELL:  It is building to a head with the final game in the group against the United States. And you know, I take my hat off to the Iranian team because they are athletes. They play football, and whatever you think of the government or what the institution of the Iranian football team stands for, these are -- these are athletes. These are human beings who are stuck right in the middle of it. And it's not just, do they think this or do they think that, but this is a life or death situation. 
 
The protestors are fighting for the future of their country and these players are stuck right bang in the middle of it. 
 
DAVIES:  Yes, what a year it would be for them to get out of the group stage for the first time. ANDERSON:  Tournament organizers had promised a World Cup, not just for Qatar but for the region. And part of what we are seeing here is regional support for the regional teams, which I think is fascinating, right?
 
RIDDELL:  We certainly saw that when Saudi Arabia stunned in Argentina, I mean the whole place just erupted. It was -- it was a victory for the Arab world.
 
DAVIES:  And I think it's challenging, isn't it, the norms and that was the whole point. When this tournament was awarded in such controversial fashion, there were all those people who said, well, but what footballing history and culture does Qatar have? 
 <br>[03:44:53]
 
The point is it is a first tournament in the Middle East. It's bringing the world's biggest sporting event to somewhere different, and it's forcing people to have uncomfortable conversations and address issues that they don't necessarily want to address issues that they don't necessarily want to address. 
 
Can we have a football tournament without alcohol being served at the stadiums? Absolutely. Just because it's always been done one way doesn't mean that is how it has to be everywhere it goes.
 
ANDERSON:  On the pitch, we are seeing some great games. Favorite game so far? 
 
RIDDELL:  Yes, nothing will top Saudi Arabia beating Argentina. We all went excited to see Messi in his last tournament and is he going to finally do it? And the Argentina team supposedly was set up just for him and the Saudi Arabian just had not read that script, and with two extraordinary goals knocked them off the park.
 
DAVIES:  I hate to make it all about Messi, but Argentina, Mexico, I'd never been to Lusail and it really was breathtaking. It matched any stadium any game I've been to anywhere in the world with the atmosphere and then that moment when Messi got his goal. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And our thanks to Becky Anderson, Don Riddell, and Amanda Davies at the World Cup in Qatar.
 
Just ahead here on CNN, the U.K.'s cost of living crisis is pushing millions to the brink and dampening the mood of the holiday season. We'll take a look at why the U.K. is facing a financial crisis.
 
Back in just a moment with that.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Welcome back, everyone. In the United Kingdom, the cost of living is increasing at its fastest rate in decades. Sucking some of the joy out of this year's holiday season. Over two thirds of adults in the U.K. planned a curb holiday spending,
 
 according to research by Accenture. Rising food, energy, and housing cost have left households with less discretionary money -- money to spend this year. Plus, striking workers across multiple sectors are demanding higher pay. Wages have stagnated and failed to keep pace with inflation in the U.K., pushing tens of thousands of workers to the picket line this year.
 
And last hour, I asked a top U.K. economist, Vicky Pryce, why the U.K. appears to be struggling financially, and here's part of our conversation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VICKY PRYCE, BOARD MEMBER &amp; ECONOMIST, CEBR:  So, this year is seeing one of the biggest falls in living standards or in disposable household incomes that we have seen. And there's going to be a repetition of that next year. So, it's pretty bad. 
 
And, in your introduction, you're quite right that wages are not keeping up with inflation. Of course, we are not the only country where this is happening, but what is going on right now is that there is a big gap between what's happening in the private sector where wages, even though they're not, again, keeping up with inflation at least are rising by 6 percent, a bit over 6 percent. Whereas in the private sector -- in the public sector, they're rising by only 2 percent. So, there is a gap, which has been there for quite some time now. 
 <br>[03:54:59]
 
And one of the reasons why we're seeing a number of strikes, you mentioned picket lines, particularly in public services, is because of this gap. And the fact that all these people who are working through the COVID period like nurses, for example. And also, right now we've got problems with the rail strikes and also teachers looking to strike. 
 
What they feel is that they have been falling way behind in real terms, and we are in for a winter of discontent, I'm afraid.
 
CHURCH:  Right.
 
PRYCE:  With loads of strikes happening over the next few months. 
 
CHURCH:  So, what triggered this U.K. economic crisis when so many other nations also dealing with a pandemic, supply chain issues, and of course, the consequences of the war in Ukraine? Why is the U.K. apparently suffering so much more than other advanced economies?
 
PRYCE:  Well, the suffering particularly in terms of, so the growth slowdown, which has taken place here, which has been faster than other places in Europe, where interestingly enough the last quarter, Q3 in the U.K. saw a drop in GDP, whereas Europe as a whole saw an increase in places like Germany and France and Italy and Spain did reasonably well, mainly because of tourism. What's been going on in the U.K. is right now we have a double impact. We have a tightening taking place in the fiscal side. So, there are tax increases rather than decreases. We had a short period where that was going on, but that's been reversed when we changed our prime minister just recently, for the third time, which is really quite interesting.
 
So, what has been going on as a result of this upheaval that we saw in the markets when we had a bit of an unstable political situation is that this government right now is increasing taxes and, also, of course, interest rates are going up. So, we have a double hit to the economy. Quite a lot of other countries are not doing that, so I think we are one exception really by comparison to what is going on elsewhere. 
 
And that is hitting, consumers and of course serious concern about public spending cuts that may be happening over which the number of people are beginning to protest as well.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Economist Vicky Pryce talking to me last hour. 
 
Another crypto company is in trouble. BlockFi is declaring bankruptcy as the contagion from FTX's collapse grips the digital assets market. The crypto lender owes money to more than 100,000 creditors.
 
And still to come here on CNN Newsroom, a rare site in Hawaii. Two volcanoes erupting at the same time. We will ask our meteorologist about the impact this could have on the area. Back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Hawaii is experiencing a rare event, two volcanoes erupting on the island at the same time. One of them, Mauna Loa is the world's largest active volcano and it's erupting for the first time in almost 40 years. The other Kilauea has been erupting since last year. 
 
So, let's turn to our meteorologist Pedram Javaheri joins us now with more on the impact this could have. Pedram, what are you learning? 
 
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  You know, this has, certainly gotten a lot of people's attention. The initial eruption happened, Rosemary, about 10. p.m. on Sunday, local time across Hawaii, and certainly across the Big Island. This is something you're used to on average since the 1800s Mauna Loa erupts about once every five years.
 <br>[03:55:07]
 
As you noted, this is one of the longest periods there of inactivity, essentially going some 38 years since this most recent eruption back in 1984 of Mauna Loa. The perspective as such on the northeastern fringe of the mountain where we've seen some lava flows, officials saying right now there is no concerned downstream of this. There's no communities are set to be impacted by the lava flows, but there are concerns associated with the ash. And we'll kind of break that down. And you'll notice, the earthquake activity here has been wrapping up in recent months. In fact, the data here from the USGS shows at least 20 earthquakes per day every single day since about the middle of July of this year. 
 
So, we've seen activity really pick up in and intensity, and the ash fall associated with it are going to be carried out downstream. And officials are concerned about that if you're certainly sensitive. And where we know the lava glass particles within the atmosphere can be carried downstream, and also be very hazardous to breathe. 
 
And of course, there is a concern when you have rainfall across the region, as we do, as November is the wet season here. You get what is called lahar developing here where you have that mixed in with water and the ash itself can really become the cement like sludge that develops.
 
And notice, thunderstorms have been present across this region, we do expect wet weather each of the next several days potentially across this region as well. So anytime you have ash that is accumulated downstream, and that is the mainstream airlines have been impacted across this region as well. 
 
The ash itself, with water coming down on top of it can create these mud flows are lahars that develop that can weigh down on structures, that can weigh down on rooftops of communities and homes, causing significant damage. 
 
The island it is home to about 200,000 people, the vast majority of the population lives on these coastal communities. The central region, Rosemary, where the volcano is situated, is where all the activity has been. 
 
And for now, the threat is confined to that central region where there are no communities directly impacted by it. But again, the wet weather on top of the ash and on top of the ash flow away from the volcano, is all concerning for folks across this region. 
 
CHURCH:  Yes. And understandably so. Pedram Javaheri, many thanks as always. 
 
A team of scientists backed by the U.N. says that Australia's Great Barrier Reef should be listed as an endangered world heritage site. This comes in a new report that says the reef is facing major threats due to climate change. It says rising ocean temperatures and water acidity are leading to mass bleaching. Scientists are calling for urgent action to protect the reef including reducing emissions. 
 
And thank you so much for spending part of your day with me, I'm Rosemary Church. CNN Newsroom continues with Bianca Nobilo, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[04:00:00]