Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Communities Still Inundated Weeks after Heavy Rains; Lancet Report Director: Action can save 1.2 Million Lives; Clashes as Protesters Mark 40 Days since Amini's Death; Ukraine: Russia Eyeing "Potential Retreat" from Kherson; Inside the Hospitals that Concealed Russian Casualties; Microsoft, Alphabet Shares Sink after Q3 Results. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired October 26, 2022 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, fossil fuel addiction is spiraling out of control. That's the message from the United Nations 
 
 Secretary General. I'm Lynda Kinkade in for my colleague Becky Anderson. Welcome to "Connect the World". Good to have you with us.
 
Well, that message is coming less than two weeks before the next UN Conference on climate change. COP 27, as it's known will take place in 
 
 Egypt as Africa gets a front row seat to global warming's devastating effects. Nigeria Southern Rivers state living up to its name right now, 
 
 after the region's worst floods in a decade.
 
The government says climate change exacerbated heavy rains typical for this time of year. So for hundreds have been killed more than a million people 
 
 displaced. Well, CNN's Larry Madowo is in Southern Nigeria where the rainy season far from over Larry. And of course, this flooding began back in 
 
 September impacting the majority of the country.
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In 33, out of 36 states and here in Bayalata State, which is one in Southern Nigeria is one of five states 
 
 where the warning is that there still could be even more rain until the end of November. And yet they have to live with this.
 
Let's look at this, Lynda, we are in a city that's become a lake, you have this water that's mixed with all sorts of material, whether it's oil, it's 
 
 waste, it's everything from the environment. And it's all across the city.
 
This is a state of about 1.7 million people and most of the stage is underwater. That's the reality of people here who have to use boats where 
 
 they have to work before where they could walk over; they could use vehicles because so much of their life is submerged.
 
We haven't heard from people who escaped the floods with nothing more than their lives, the kids and the clothes on their backs, who have lost 
 
 everything. The fridge the couch, their every single possession in life is under the water right now. They have to make do with it.
 
When you look at this city, for instance, you see people who are having to make do with just get your boots and roll up your sleeves and try and wait 
 
 and get through it across from the streets is what used to be a car that belongs to a driving school here that's completely submerged.
 
I don't think that's ever going to work again. And the building that houses the driving school across the street, that's the front ground floor, is 
 
 completely gone. So its people who are living on the second floor and higher who kind of wade through it and try and make the way to the top of 
 
 it. And that's the reality for life be in here in Bayalata, but also for many, many parts of Nigeria.
 
And that's why there's so much anger that the government didn't respond effectively to this crisis and has not declared a national disaster, not 
 
 putting emergency measures even though for many people who are displaced living rough on the streets. It's a very real, very immediate emergency for 
 
 them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MADOWO (voice over): Our communities still submerged nearly a month after the flooding began with no end in sight. Boats have become the only way to 
 
 get around much of Bayalata State in Southern Nigeria. The street of tends to rivers driving entire communities away from their homes. Mama will be 
 
 takes us to what is left over her home. The water is still waist high. We have really suffered she says tell the government to help us.
 
MADOWO (on camera): Everything you own is here under the water in this your house?
 
HAPPINESS MESHACK, FLOOD VICTIM: Yes, everything.
 
MADOWO (voice over): Some are living rough on the streets, washing with this water, cooking with it and bathe in it.
 
MADOWO (on camera): Even though people's homes and businesses and livelihoods are already submerged. It's still raining. And there's more 
 
 expected. The Nigerian government is warning this good one through November so even more of it.
 
MADOWO (voice over): This is Nigeria's worst flooding in a decade, and Aniso Handy has remained in his house through it all.
 
ANISO HANDY, FLOOD VICTIM: Nigerians are used to manage if not, would have all died. We have not seen a situation where people are not cared for by 
 
 Nigerians care for themselves. We are just like infants that have no father, no mother.
 
MADOWO (voice over): The feeling of abandonment runs deep here. Victims are disappointed with the Nigerian government's response, which hasn't declared 
 
 the flood and national emergency.
 
MESHACK: We're not dead comfortable, another fearful measure dammit they're not sick.
 
MADOWO (voice over): We're next the local cemetery and residents have reported seeing bodies floating here in this water. This flood has 
 
 displaced not just the living also the dead. The floods have affected 33 of Nigeria's 36 states, partly due to well above average rainfall.
 
Bayalata is among those cut off from the nation with major highways underwater. The situation has been exacerbated by poor drainage 
 
 infrastructure, and an overflowing dam in neighboring Cameroon. But with a warmer climate causing more intense rainfall authorities have also blamed 
 
 it on climate change angering some Nigerians.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
MADOWO (voice over): In this community, though, there are more short term consequences.
 
MADOWO (on camera): So you're worried about the children, mostly?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, my children, they're not able to school again. It is paining me.
 
MADOWO (voice over): It's a tough life to navigate for humans and animals alike. But life must go on.
 
MADOWO (on camera): Apart from the death and displacement, one of the other immediate challenges here is disease, the risk of color just shot up in 
 
 Nigeria in places that's been affected by this flood.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MADOWO: Look at this water, Lynda, it's a shade of black that I can't even describe because it's a mixture of all sorts of impurities. And so one of 
 
 the real warnings here is from the International Rescue Committee that's warning that in parts of the country that seen the worst flooding, there's 
 
 already an increase in cholera cases, and the fear of other communicable preventable diseases such as bilharzia and other waterborne diseases.
 
There's also a real fear about food insecurity because people have had their livelihoods washed out. So they have to depend on aid for any sort of 
 
 assistance. And that is exacerbated by the climate crisis. That is a real challenge here. The government has blamed this on the climate crisis.
 
But Nigerians don't feel that that's correct. They feel this is a result of negligence. But the reality is what's happening here is not too dissimilar 
 
 from what we saw earlier in the year in Pakistan. And another warning sign for how Africa is greatly affected by the effects of climate change, but 
 
 has not nearly prepared doesn't have enough resources for mitigation and adaptation, Lynda?
 
KINKADE: Yes, certainly. We saw with the Pakistani floods earlier this year that climate experts were calling those floods, a wake-up call. And we are 
 
 seeing more of these intense extreme weather events. Next month, of course, Egypt will host the COP 27 Climate Change as Summit. What does Nigeria want 
 
 to hear from that summit?
 
MADOWO: They hope that there can be some tangible responses from the global node to be absolutely clear here because there have been a lot of 
 
 commitments from countries like the U.S. and the UK and Europe, but they haven't seen that trickled down here.
 
In terms of the funding necessary for climate change, adaptation mitigation that just hasn't come through Africa contributes a tiny percentage to 
 
 global emissions less than 5 percent. But it is the continent most affected by the effects of a warming climate. That's why you see some of such 
 
 frequent flooding and droughts and parts of the continents.
 
I live in Nairobi, I know about the reality of the drought affected the Horn of Africa, in places like Somalia, and Ethiopia and parts of Northern 
 
 Kenya, the worst I've seen in a generation. And yet, there are no real tangible responses from those who are most responsible for creating the 
 
 situation that we're living through. So that is the same message from out here in Nigeria.
 
KINKADE: All right, Larry Madowo, good to see that report to get that perspective. Our thanks to you and we are going to stay on this story 
 
 because as we were discussing more extreme weather is one of the consequences of climate change.
 
And a new report finds that many governments are undermining efforts to reverse the crisis. The Lancet Medical Publication found nearly 80 percent 
 
 of the 86 countries they reviewed, are incentivizing fossil fuels, hindering the transition to cleaner energy.
 
The researchers say reliance on coal, oil and gas is causing heat related illness as well as other medical problems. And the UN Secretary General 
 
 says and I quote, the climate crisis is killing us. It is undermining not just the health of our planet, but also the health of people everywhere.
 
Well, my next guest is the Executive Director of the Report Mariana Romanello joins us now from London via Skype. Good to have you with us.
 
MARIANA ROMANELLO, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, THE LANCET COUNTDOWN ON HEALTH AND CLIMATE CHANGE: Hi, Lynda, thank you so much great to be with you.
 
KINKADE: So Dr. Romanello, can we start by just laying out the risks facing the world right now?
 
ROMANELLO: Absolutely. We're seeing that with the rising temperatures. Our health is being undermined in every possible parameter of the environmental 
 
 and the socio economic determinants of good health and well-being.
 
We're seeing increased temperature exposing vulnerable people to about 4 billion more present days of lethal heatwave exposure every year. And we're 
 
 seeing heat related mortality increasing. We're also seeing that this is just the tip of the iceberg with heat exposure, also increasing morbidity 
 
 and undermining our labor capacity.
 
That translates directly to loss of income, socio economic losses and compounds with a crisis that we're seeing today of the cost of leaving the 
 
 economic crisis, the rising fuel costs. And I think one thing that we want to stress is apart from the climate crisis, the fossil fuel addiction is 
 
 also harming our health directly through dependence on volatile fossil fuel market and air pollution which has enormous impacts on the health of people 
 
 all around the world.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
KINKADE: Dr. Romanello. I want to ask specifically about that, because the report cites that health centered action to tackle climate change could 
 
 save millions of lives. Can you expand on what health centered action means?
 
ROMANELLO: Absolutely. What we're seeing today is that we're absolutely addicted, as was said by Dr. Tedros, from the W.H.O the Director General of 
 
 the W.H.O, to fossil fuels, and that fossil fuel addiction is resulting not only in exacerbated impacts from climate change, but also indirect health 
 
 harms.
 
We're seeing that people around the world are still suffering from energy poverty, they cannot access the energy they need, for their basic needs to 
 
 keep the walk their homes at healthy temperatures, to cook, and to refrigerate and light.
 
And we're seeing that about 13 percent only 13 percent of the people in the lower human development index countries today have access to clean fuels 
 
 and technologies for cooking. All the rest are still relying on dirty fuels.
 
That is the consequence of the low adoption of renewable energies and the continuous over dependence on fossil fuels. And we looked at the air in 
 
 people's home in 62 countries, it exceeds more than 30 times the levels of air pollution compatible with the guidelines of the W.H.O people are 
 
 breathing toxic air in their homes.
 
What this means is that people are still relying on dirty fuels because of the low adoption of renewable vulnerable to the volatile fossil fuel 
 
 markets, to energy poverty, and to all the health consequences that come with it.
 
So today, while countries are devising their responses to the energy crisis, if we go back to fossil fuels, this situation will only get worse. 
 
 And so in the climate crisis, we will be condemned to a future of ill health.
 
But we also see that by aligning our response to the climate crisis with the response to the energy crisis through a health lens, what we could 
 
 prioritize is a rapid transition to clean energies, avoiding about 1.2 million deaths each year from exposure to outdoor air pollution that comes 
 
 directly from fossil fuel burning.
 
We could also deliver healthier cities, more active travel, better cardiovascular health, better lifestyles. Through better diets, we could 
 
 avoid up to 11.5 million deaths that today we incur through high carbon diets. So we're seeing that the transition towards healthier energy systems 
 
 is very well aligned to the transition to a healthy future.
 
KINKADE: And speaking of fossil fuels, it must be quite devastating, perhaps surprising some of your findings in the Lancer Report, one setting 
 
 that 15 of the world's largest oil and gas companies are set to exceed their fair share of emissions by 37 percent, in 2030, and by 103 percent by 
 
 2040.
 
We're of course less than two weeks away from the COP 27 Climate Summit, what needs to happen to hold companies accountable?
 
ROMANELLO: Absolutely. This is perhaps one of the most concerning findings that we have today. And it is particularly worrying at a point when the 
 
 windfall profits to oil and gas companies because of the rising energy prices means that they today can take those funds and increase their 
 
 investments in fossil fuels.
 
However, we're also seeing an opportunity here, if today, rather than taking those profits and investing them to fossil fuels, they will invest 
 
 in a low carbon energy transition, which they have the infrastructure and the capacity to do that could actually be part of the solution.
 
We need to see at COP 27 strong commitments from governments to stop subsidizing fossil fuels and redirect those funds to promoting low carbon 
 
 energy. And to help those that are struggling today with the rising energy costs.
 
We need the commitments made by oil and gas companies to be kept and for oil and gas companies to be held accountable, legally accountable for their 
 
 commitments, because today, they're undermining the future of our soil.
 
KINKADE: And according to a new UN report, just 26 out of 193 countries that agreed last year to set up their climate action have followed through 
 
 that's it. They're the only 26 out of 193 have actually followed through on climate change action.
 
And of course, climate change negotiations between the two biggest polluters are the United States and China has virtually stalled. What is it 
 
 going to take to see real progress?
 
ROMANELLO: Well, now that is the big problem that we're facing, because as countries are struggling economically, the cost of energy is increasing. 
 
 We're seeing many going back to fossil fuels, and that could potentially condemned us to catastrophic future our health is lying in the balance.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
ROMANELLO: However, once again, we need strong commitments from countries to stop financing fossil fuels. You mentioned it before we're still seeing 
 
 80 percent of countries allocating funds to fossil fuel subsidies today.
 
This is $400 billion each year to net fossil fuel subsidies from this 80 percent of countries while we still haven't committed four times less than 
 
 that, to ensuring a just transition. What we need is for all countries to realize that the costs of inaction vastly exceed the cost of action.
 
Particularly, we take into account the enormous health hazards of air pollution of direct fossil fuel use, and of climate change. So today, we 
 
 know how cost effective it would be to take action. But we need strong political commitment to ensure just transition.
 
KINKADE: And just finally, one quick question. You often hear criticism about storing clean energy. What do you say to critics that say it's too 
 
 difficult to store clean energy?
 
ROMANELLO: We've had many, many conversations with leaders in this field in that field of technology development. And I can assure you that it's not a 
 
 limitation are not a technological limitation. We know how to do that?
 
We just do need to have investments to upscale the technology that we already have, and ensure that we can therefore afford stable energy access 
 
 to everyone around the world. That is the key limitation now; it's not a technological problem. It's a problem of political will, and where we're 
 
 putting our resources and efforts.
 
We know how to do this. And I think that is the message that needs to go through. We have a possibility today. And we have the resources to deliver 
 
 a healthy, thriving future with cleaner air, better lifestyles, and healthier diets. So it's not only about climate change, it's about building 
 
 a better future for people alive today.
 
KINKADE: Dr. Mariana Romanello, Head of the Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change great to have you on the program. Hopefully we can check in 
 
 with you again when that COP 27 Climate Summit takes place. Thanks very much.
 
ROMANELLO: Thank you so much for having me.
 
KINKADE: Well, still ahead here on "Connect the World" students in Tehran hold a vigil for Masha Amini 40 days after her death sparked massive 
 
 protests. Will the uprising begin a revolution? We'll have a live report and later this hour.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: With chants for freedom and cries of frustration are getting louder across Iran. Even as security forces crack down with detentions 
 
 force and tear gas. Students are at the forefront of these protests. This video shows them holding a vigil in Tehran 40 days after the passing of 22 
 
 year old Masha Amini who died in police custody to her arrest for not wearing her hijab properly.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
KINKADE: 40 days is the traditional mourning period and also an important marker for the people of Islamic faith.
 
As the turmoil continues to grip Iran, a Norway based rights group has released this video showing what appear to be security forces in Amini's 
 
 hometown Tuesday night.
 
The group says more than 230 people have been killed since the government's harsh crackdown last month. CNN's Nada Bashir has been tracking the story 
 
 and joins us now live from London. Good to see you Nada. So 40 days of protests, hundreds of people killed. And as we just saw their security 
 
 forces in Amini's home town. What can you tell us?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Yes, absolutely. The security forces in Iran and authorities are continuing with their brutal crackdown of peaceful protests 
 
 taking place across the country. This is of course, a poignant moment of both mourning and remembrance.
 
40 days since 23 of Mahsa Amini died; we've seen calls for protests and vigils to be held in her memory of the last few days.
 
And that is certainly what we have been seeing today in Iran across the country, but particularly in her hometown. Hundreds, if not thousands of 
 
 people now out on the streets, commemorating her life but also protesting against the regime. And really, this has really morphed and gained momentum 
 
 over the last few weeks.
 
The protests now in their sixth week initially sparked in response to the death of Amini in the custody of Iran's royalty police.
 
We saw women removing their mandatory hijabs cutting their hair in a show of defiance against the regime, severe restrictions on women's rights and 
 
 this regulations, there's conservative and strict regulations on how women should dress in Iran, but they really have now moved into something far 
 
 greater.
 
We are hearing chants of Death to the Dictator, many calling for regime change. The protests now is really encompassing a wide range of grievances, 
 
 many calling for their fundamental core human rights to be upheld and respected by the Iranian regime. And this has really driven the protest 
 
 movement forward but at its core, Mahsa Amini continues to be a symbol of this latest uprising in Iran. Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR (voice over): The final resting place of Mahsa Zhina Amini, a place of mourning and now of protest. Amini's name has become synonymous with a 
 
 movement that is posing the biggest threat to the Iranian regime in years.
 
Sparks in the wake of the 22 year olds death while in the custody of Iran's notorious morality police detained for allegedly contravening the country's 
 
 strict dress code. But now as the Iranian people commemorate 40 days, since Amini's death, a significant marker of birth, mourning and remembrance.
 
The movement has grown to become something far more wide reaching than its initial call for women's rights.
 
FIRUZEH MAHMOUDI, CO-FOUNDER &amp; DIRECTOR, UNITED FOR IRAN: It was a protest that quickly turned into a movement and uprising. And some of course say 
 
 that there is definitely a component of beginning part of a revolution.
 
BASHIR (on camera): And how important is Mahsa Amini's legacy in really driving forward this protest movement?
 
MAHMOUDI: Zhina's death was a sparkle that led to this mass fire, right that we're seeing throughout the country, that initial protests was not 
 
 even about hijab, it was of course about that. But that is much more than that. It's about body autonomy. It's about gender equality. It's about 
 
 basic rights.
 
BASHIR (voice over): Amini's name is now remembered alongside a growing list of women who have lost their lives at the hands of Iran security 
 
 forces. The authorities deny responsibility, disregarding the mounting evidence of the regime's brutal and deadly crackdown on protesters.
 
TARA SEPEHRI FAR, SR. IRAN RESEARCHER, HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH: We have use of paintball guns, shotguns with metal or plastic pellets, and also instances 
 
 of use of assault weapons, assault rifles, clashing book style weapons, or even hand guns that have been documented.
 
BASHIR (voice over): This in addition to the mass detention of hundreds, if not thousands of protesters. Six weeks on, however, and the movement isn't 
 
 losing steam. With protests gripping the country's universities and high schools and strike action by teachers, business owners, factory workers, 
 
 even oil refinery workers, the backbone of Iran's economy. The call for reform and for regime change is only growing louder.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR: Look, we are now in the sixth week of protests. And today we have seen that brutal crackdown by the Iranian security forces continuing to 
 
 intensify. And video circulating social media we've seen anti-riot units marching on the Capitol Tehran, tear gas reportedly being used against 
 
 protests as much as we've seen over the last few weeks.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
BASHIR: The UN and other human rights organizations have repeatedly now expressed concern and alarm over that brutal and deadly crackdown that 
 
 we've seen now. UN experts are calling for an urgent independent and international investigation into that crackdown on protesters.
 
There are calls widespread calls for tougher action to be taken by the international community in addition to the international sanctions we've 
 
 already seen placed on Iranian entities and officials. Lynda.
 
KINKADE: All right, Nada Bashir for us in London thanks very much for that report. Well, still to come the war of words of nuclear weapons, the U.S. 
 
 president wants Russia not to use one. Moscow claims Kyiv is making one and CNN asks Ukraine's Intel Chief to weigh in on these claims, that story 
 
 ahead.
 
Plus a doctor who treated injured Russian soldiers exposes one of the hospitals that can steal these enormous casualties. Ahead he talks to CNN 
 
 in an exclusive report.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back, a horrific scene in central Ukraine. Ukrainian officials reporting a Russian missile attack in the city of the Dnipro 
 
 overnight left two civilians dead, including a pregnant woman. Four people were also injured in the strike.
 
Ukrainian officials say fragments of the missile hit a gas station causing it to catch fire. The business was destroyed and burned out cars left 
 
 behind. Meanwhile, fears about nuclear weapons persist. U.S. President Joe Biden is wanting Russia would be a serious mistake to escalate the war by 
 
 using tactical nuclear weapons.
 
Though American officials say they've seen no evidence that Russia is planning such a move. It follows Moscow's claims that Kyiv is planning to 
 
 use a dirty bomb and allegation that Western leaders have called false. Our International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson is following the latest 
 
 developments on the ground for us in the capital of Ukraine, Kyiv.
 
Good to see you, Nic. So you have interviewed the chief of defense for intelligence Ukraine, opposing that question specifically Russia's claim 
 
 that Ukraine has a dirty bomb and is prepared to use it. What did he tell you?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: He's really seeing this as part of a propaganda effort by President Putin to try to push Ukraine's 
 
 allies to make it go to the table and sue for peace essentially which the allies are not going to do and Ukraine's not going to do, but that's the 
 
 context in which he sees it.
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
ROBERTSON: But I asked him flat out, of course, you know, do you have a dirty bomb?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GENERAL KYRYLO BUDANOV, CHIEF OF UKRAINIAN DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE: This is a question that became something of a joke. And my answer is direct. We are 
 
 not getting prepared. We are not working on a dirty bomb.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): Ukraine has invited the International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors to come here. When are they due to arrive? Where will 
 
 they go and when do we expect the results?
 
BUDANOV: We're absolutely supporting the visits of the IAEA mission. And we are waiting for them. We're waiting for them to visit all nuclear 
 
 facilities.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): And Russia has identified two sites Science Academy here in Kyiv and a mining facility in the center of Ukraine. How important 
 
 is it to you that the IAEA inspectors very quickly clear Ukraine of all these baseless Russian allegations?
 
BUDANOV: The sooner they come, the better things will be.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERTSON: And what he went on to say was that of those power stations and facilities that he wants the IAEA to visit, it includes one that Russia 
 
 controls right now. There's efforts to a nuclear power plant because Ukraine is concerned that Russian military at that plant out with the scope 
 
 of what the Ukrainian workers there can see it and out with the sight of what the IAEA inspectors who are based there can see that the Russian 
 
 military is doing something with the dry spent nuclear fuel rods there. And Ukrainian authorities are very concerned about it.
 
So they want they want those inspectors, they get better access to what Russia is doing that that power plant as well. But absolutely, they see the 
 
 IAEA coming as a way to very quickly remove this accusation from the table and return to a bit of closer to reality in the conversations international 
 
 conversations that are going on.
 
KINKADE: Yes, great. You could get that, that interview, Nic, very crucial information there. I want to ask you also about these attacks on 
 
 infrastructure in Ukraine. They become so concerning that Ukraine is now saying asking people don't return certainly not during winter. What else 
 
 are they telling people?
 
ROBERTSON: Yes, they're telling them during the day not to use electricity, high energy drawing, you know, facilities around their house or washing 
 
 machines, electric fires, that sort of thing. Don't use them during the day don't use them, particularly in the evening, when, when it's typically a 
 
 high load.
 
There are parts of this city here, the Capitol just a few weeks ago, wouldn't have expected to have power blackouts now have power blackouts, 
 
 they can last for up to four hours. That's affecting across the country.
 
This was one of the things that I asked the defense intelligence chief as well. I said, look, you're working on repairing these power generating 
 
 facilities, but it's Russia destroying them at a greater rate than you can repair them. You know, this is a guy who gives pretty straightforward 
 
 answers.
 
And he said, look, I'm not going to get into detail there. But bottom line, we are not going to give into the pressure that Russia is putting on us 
 
 right now. We're going to continue to repair. But I think the implication there is that yes, the repairs aren't as quick as they would like them to 
 
 be.
 
But if they have to endure a cold dark winter, it seems that Ukrainians are willing to do what the government says reduce consumption and bear with the 
 
 harsh conditions.
 
KINKADE: Ma - some great insight. And Nic Robertson for us in the capital Kyiv thanks very much. Well, Ukraine's military says Russia is preparing 
 
 for a potential retreat in the city of Kherson. And while CNN can't confirm that our team was able to travel to Kherson's frontlines with a Ukrainian 
 
 reconnaissance unit, our Frederik Pleitgen reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Enroot to the front in one of the most active areas of the brutal war in 
 
 Ukraine, with a rocket artillery team taking aim at Vladimir Putin's forces. They're called Carlson and use light trucks with missile pods 
 
 mounted on the bed. The rockets carry a message of retribution. This one signed on behalf of a fallen soldier for - from which it sits.
 
"TARAS", UKRAINIAN ARMED FORCES: Our vehicle is very effective because we can set up quickly fire and get away again.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Now they're aiming at Russian positions several miles away.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): But Russia's artillery is also dangerous and could fire back fast. It's not safe he screams.
 
PLEITGEN (on camera): Get out of here faster. We have to get out of here as fast as possible because the Russians, I target this position after they 
 
 got hit by the salvo from our rockets.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Their key to accuracy comes from the air. The drone scopes out the target and then watches as the artillery hits a Russian 
 
 military repair shop that unit says.
 
"JOHN", DRONE OPERATOR, UKRAINIAN ARMED FORCES: We are the eyes of the unit. We do reconnaissance and then make sure the target gets hit.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): The Russians are under such pressure they've started evacuating tens of thousands of people from Kherson and the Ukrainian 
 
 believe Moscow is making its unfounded claims about Kyiv preparing to use a so-called Dirty Bomb because Russia's troops are pinned down in this area. 
 
 Carlson's commander believes it's only a matter of time before they housed Vladimir Putin's army from here.
 
TARAS: By the end of the year we believe Kherson will be under Ukrainian flags.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): And they hope very unit will make a small difference in the battle for Kherson. Fred Pleitgen, CNN in the Kherson region, 
 
 Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, Russia's ambassador to the United Kingdom says using nuclear weapons in this war is out of the question. Andrei Kelin discussed Russia's 
 
 options with CNN's Chief International Anchor Christiane Amanpour. And you can catch the full interview on Amanpour later today at 6 p.m. in London 9 
 
 p.m. in Abu Dhabi.
 
Well, prices at the pump are falling sharply across much of Europe, laying fears of a potential crisis this winter. Gas is less than a third of its 
 
 peak costs this summer, due in part to fuel storage tanks reaching capacity and mild temperatures. And another possible reprieve could be on the 
 
 horizon.
 
A check minister says his counterparts in the European Union are on board with supporting a price cap on gas and electricity, though they are still 
 
 split on how to do it. Our correspondent Anna Stewart is following the developments and joins us now from London. Anna, the key question here will 
 
 energy companies bring down the prices?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Oh, if only I can tell you from my own energy bills that we're still very much feeling the cost of the squeeze on energy. 
 
 And we are in the middle of an energy crisis. But what we are seeing in terms of prices right now is a huge fall. And I think we've got a chart we 
 
 can show you the European benchmark for gas.
 
And it's now dropped to levels we haven't really seen since mid-June, so actually before Russia started reducing supplies down Nord Stream. Now some 
 
 of this is good news. This has been Europe working very hard to secure gas supplies at a huge cost.
 
And there was of course, a plan to try and fill up their storage facilities. The target was 80 percent by the first of November, it's 
 
 already well above 90 percent, they've done incredibly well. And also you know what temperatures are pretty high right now for this time of year.
 
So demand isn't where it could have been. That is all the good news. The bad news is Europe frankly has too much gas at the moment in many ways. 
 
 It's got more gas than it knows what to do with. And as storage facilities being so full just shows you the limitations here because there are LNG 
 
 vessels floating off the coast of Europe unable to come in.
 
There aren't enough LNG terminals, regasification facilities; there aren't enough storage facilities to further bolster the security. And when we look 
 
 at prices for December, January, February, you do see them climb again. So we're not out of the crisis. And we also have to start to worry almost 
 
 already about next winter because we'll be approaching next winter as a continent probably with storage facilities absolutely dry.
 
KINKADE: All right, Anna Stewart for us, stay across it all in London. Thanks so much. Well, coming up, a doctor pulls back the curtain on the 
 
 casualties you saw while treating Russian soldiers in Belarus.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDREI, DOCTOR, MAZYR CITY HOSPITAL: Some of them told us they'd gone through hell. They didn't expect what was waiting for them in Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Ahead an exclusive reporting to the tales and trauma of Russia inflicted on its own troops.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
KINKADE: We have some news just into CNN Iran state run media reporting that at least 15 people have been killed in what it calls a terrorist 
 
 attack in the southern city of Shiraz. IRNA says 10 people were injured when three armed men entered a shrine and opened fire on worshippers.
 
Two people have been arrested. CNN's Nada Bashir joins us now from London, this news just coming into us now. Nada, what are you learning?
 
BASHIR: Well, Lynda, the details of this incident are just coming in. Now we are learning of course that at least 15 people have been reported killed 
 
 10 injured. That's according to state run media. They've described this incident as a terrorist attack.
 
They say three armed men entered the shrine in the southern city of Shiraz armed men shooting those inside. And at least two people have so far been 
 
 arrested according to the authorities, as reported by state media. They're currently affording to detain a third individual but this is developing as 
 
 we speak. Now this is just coming in.
 
We still don't have all the details around this incident. But it is of course important to remember the context in which this report is coming in. 
 
 We have seen over the last few days and particularly today, widespread demonstrations across the country and a significant presence by the Iranian 
 
 security forces they have previously framed these protests as rioters as those attempting to disturb state security.
 
We understand of course, from the Iranian state prosecutor, public prosecutor, rather, who said on Monday that more than 300 protested had 
 
 been charged for allegedly threatening state security. So this is certainly important context for where we see this attack coming.
 
There are concerns that this could potentially lay the groundwork and set the pretext for the Iranian authorities to perhaps step up at the presence 
 
 of their security forces. We've already seen a significant presence and of course, very much concerned that this could give the pretext for the 
 
 Iranian security forces to step up their crackdown on protesters.
 
They've already framed these demonstrations, many of them, of course, largely peaceful protests, as riots as people threatening state security. 
 
 And we have seen the use of excessive and lethal force. Now given this incident and the details that we're seeing coming in now, this could 
 
 certainly set the pretext for intensification of that crackdown by the Iranian security forces.
 
But of course, none of this is still really much coming in now. We still don't know all the details around the motive behind this potential attack. 
 
 And this is of course, being reported by state run media that is important to note. But at this stage, as we understand it 15 people killed including 
 
 two children, at least 10 people injured. Lynda?
 
KINKADE: All right, Nada Bashir staying across the breaking news out of Iran. First, we will check in with you a little bit later. Thank you very 
 
 much. Well, eight months into the war in Ukraine, and we are getting a clearer view of how unprepared Russia's military was at the start of the 
 
 war.
 
Take a look at these X-rays from a doctor who treated Russian soldiers across the border in Belarus. He and his colleagues were told not to speak 
 
 about treating his patients. But he fled with his evidence to expose the brutal cost of Russia's war on its own troops. And Melissa Bell has the 
 
 details in this exclusive report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): For Andrei, it was the hardest of goodbyes. I love you, he tells his daughters as he prepares to 
 
 swim for his life. Is daddy leaving asks one, yes he replies. The young doctor from Southern Belarus had just driven his family across the country 
 
 from their home near the Ukrainian border.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
BELL (voice over): Andrei then swam into the safety of neighboring Lithuania, running from a war. That wasn't his. Fleeing with X-rays of some 
 
 of the Russian soldiers he treated as the war began, the ghosts of Vladimir Putin's war machine.
 
"ANDREI", DOCTOR, MAZYR CITY HOSPITAL: I wanted to tell their stories; I just took some evidence to confirm it. And what I took with me could make 
 
 me liable. They can charge me with espionage.
 
BELL (voice over): With a state of the Russian army, its defeats and its casualties are closely guarded secrets. These images are a rare window onto 
 
 Russia's catastrophic invasion. On February 24, the first day of the war, Russian forces landed at this airport on the outskirts of Kyiv.
 
The fight that ensued was brutal. Ukrainian counter offensives inflicted devastating casualties on the Russian paratroopers. Many wound up in Mazyr 
 
 City Hospital in southern Belarus.
 
ANDREI: Most had blast injuries injured hips, face, lacerations to the torso area, head brain injuries, several had damage through their jaws.
 
BELL (voice over): Andrei says that many of the injuries he treated were consistent with soldiers coming under unexpected and chaotic firepower.
 
ANDREI: They saw a lot of explosions and couldn't even see who was firing on them. Some of them told us they'd gone through hell. They didn't expect 
 
 what was waiting for them in Ukraine. They thought they were going in for military exercises. They were mainly angry at the commander who had to 
 
 deceive them most. Already were resigned to their new reality losing a finger or leg.
 
BELL (voice over): The trucks used to transport the wounded shared at the time on social media. Andrei says they arrived at night bringing 30 
 
 soldiers on the second day of the war, 90 on the third.
 
ANDREI: They came from Borodianka, some from Hostomel and others from Bucha. A number was written on the forehead of each to direct them to the 
 
 right department. At least the ones who were admitted had a good chance of surviving; there was one guy who was missing his entire lower jaw. And he 
 
 was only complaining that he hadn't eaten or drank anything for three days.
 
BELL (voice over): But the soldiers kept arriving. Andrei says about 40 a day on average, the wounds easier for him to remember than the names, 
 
 although one in particular does stand out.
 
BELL (on camera): One of the early narratives of the start of the war was the number of commanders that were being lost on the Russian side. Several 
 
 wound up in Mazyr district hospital, including General Sergei Nyrkov.
 
ANDREI: He suffered abdominal trauma from a mine explosion in Chernobyl, so we treated him and then after he was stabilized, he was taken away with the 
 
 other officers. I felt disgust towards these officers. Mainly the feeling was that they weren't war criminals.
 
BELL (voice over): Mostly Andrei says the men were ordinary soldiers, very young and inexperienced, 18, 19, 20 year olds who would spend a couple of 
 
 days in his hospital before being sent back to Russia. Their lives saved but changed forever.
 
ANDREI: I had the impression that only a small portion of the soldiers sent actually made it out alive into our hospital; I had the feeling that some 
 
 of the living invades those who had died.
 
BELL (voice over): Andrei is now rebuilding his own life with his family in a European city. With what little they could bring mainly the X-rays, 
 
 hidden in one of his daughter's toys to be brought to safety and now to light.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, Melissa Bell joins us live from Paris, such an interesting interview. What else did this young doctor tell you about what he 
 
 witnessed?
 
BELL: One of the most chilling things that he told us Lynda was that it seemed to him judging from the wounds aid sustained, but also with the 
 
 soldiers were telling him.
 
And this is something very similar to what we heard from another doctor we interviewed as part of this investigation, that it seemed to him that the 
 
 ones that had made it across the Belarusian border and into his civilian hospital were really the lucky ones that it seemed to him that many more 
 
 those who had been more severely wounded had simply been left behind on the battlefields of Ukraine.
 
And I think that's a good measure of something that we've been uncovering over the course of the last few months. This war has dragged on, not just 
 
 the lack of preparedness of the Russian forces, but the callousness of the invasion, even towards Moscow's own Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yes, many seem very, very unprepared. Melissa Bell for us in Paris great reporting there thanks very much! We're going to take a quick break; 
 
 we'll be right back stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back, some disappointing tech results are adding to recession fears. The third quarter pitcher for Google's parent company 
 
 Alphabet has fallen short of Wall Street estimates for both sales and profits. And that's mostly due to a sharp slowdown in the growth of its 
 
 core advertising business. Shares of Microsoft also getting slammed and this after the tech giant reported a weaker than expected cloud revenue in 
 
 its latest quarterly results. CNN's Rahel Solomon joins us live from New York.
 
Good to see you, Rahel. Yes, certainly some disappointing numbers, signaling certainly a very tough environment. What does it say about the 
 
 slowdown that we're seeing right now?
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Lynda, I think it's yet another sign of an economic slowdown that is already underway and signaling that 
 
 perhaps more - to how sharp that slowdown will be in terms of recession fears is still unclear.
 
But what we learned from Alphabet last night when it performed or when it was released results was that it missed on the top and the bottom line, the 
 
 revenue and earnings. And a few things are happening here, Lynda.
 
On the one hand, you have increased competition from the likes of players like Tik-Tok, but on the other hand, there's a larger macro story. And I 
 
 think that's what we're getting at when we talk about the economic slowdown or recession fears. Our Alphabet, Google's parent saying that it is seeing 
 
 slowing ad spent.
 
The reason why this matters is because in periods of economic uncertainty and periods of economic slowdown, it tends to signal marketing and ad 
 
 budgets. That's where we tend to see the first sort of belt tightening from corporate America. And so it gives you a signal sort of how executives are 
 
 feeling about the state of affairs. And what we learned is that in fact, we're starting to see slowing spend in categories like mortgages and loans. 
 
 And here in the U.S., mortgage activity has really fallen because of increased interest rates, sales have really fallen. And so you're starting 
 
 to see that spill over not just in the housing industry, but for the bigger digital ad spend players.
 
One analyst putting it this way, when Google stumbles Lynda, it's a bad omen for digital advertising at large. And I think that says it all.
 
KINKADE: Yes, it's not a good sign, is it? But we will Rahel learn more about the corporate landscape this week. Who else are we hearing from?
 
SOLOMON: Well, speaking of digital advertisers, we're going to hear from Meta, the parent company of Facebook, in just a few hours after the U.S. 
 
 market closes.
 
And then tomorrow, we'll hear from Apple, we'll hear from Amazon, it is a huge monumental week for U.S. corporations. And so we'll learn a lot more 
 
 in terms of especially with Meta in terms of whether this was just a one- off with Google and Alphabet, or if this is really indicative of some headwinds that the digital ad players are experiencing which we expect it 
 
 to be the latter.
 
KINKADE: And in terms of expectations, what are we expected to hear? Could they see the sort of dip we've seen from Alphabet?
 
SOLOMON: I think that is the expectation because I mean, quite honestly, Alphabet is considered best in class, right? So I mean if Alphabet is 
 
 already starting to say it seems slowing spin, we expect the same. One thing that's also interesting in terms of a data point we're going to get 
 
 this week is third quarter GDP for the U.S. and that is expected to actually be quite positive.
 
And so lots of sort of data to wait through lots of sort of data to sort of grapple with but certainly for the tech players as of now, it is a tough 
 
 environment. Some however is faring better than others.
 
KINKADE: Rahel Solomon, good to see you as always, we'll touch base with you in the coming days, thanks very much.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
KINKADE: Well, before we go Halloween just a few days away but Disney and Marvel are already making plans for later in the holiday season. They've 
 
 released a trailer for a new special starring the Guardians of the Galaxy in search of the perfect prism.
 
That special will feature an appearance by actor Kevin Bacon who has been part of an ongoing joke throughout the Guardian movies. For now it is 
 
 unclear whether he'll travel to space so help save the holidays. The specialist set to hit Disney Plus November 25.
 
That does it for us for today. I'm Lynda Kinkade, thanks so much for joining us. "One World" with my friend and colleague Zain Asher is up next, 
 
 stick around. You're watching CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
END