Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: U.S. Midterm Elections Update; Deep Water Discovery; A Jobseeker`s Journey. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired November 14, 2022 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. I`m Coy Wire. Here to help you jump-start your week with the best minutes in news right here on CNN 10. 
 
let`s start today with an update on the midterm elections. Last week, millions of adults across the country went to the polls to cast their votes 
 
 for representatives in Congress senators and state and local officials Democrats performed better than predicted. They are projected to retain 
 
 majority control of the U.S. Senate after winning a pivotal race in Nevada. 
 
Now Democrats will hold 50 Senate seats with Republicans currently holding 49. A December runoff election in the state of Georgia could earn 
 
 Republicans a matching 50th Senate seat but Democrats would still hold a tie-breaking vote in the Senate which belongs to Vice President Kamala 
 
 Harris.
 
But the race isn`t over yet Republicans may win the House of Representatives as votes continue to be tallied from a handful of 
 
 districts. If Republicans win the House, they could still stop a significant portion of President Biden`s Democratic agenda in his medical 
 
 proposals. Congress makes nationwide laws. The House decides which laws are voted on, while the Senate can approve or block them and confirm 
 
 appointments made by the president.
 
Let`s hear now from CNN`s Jessica Schneider, a justice correspondent based in Washington. She has an update on President Biden`s proposal to forgive 
 
 some student loan debt which would need clear congressional authorization to go through.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT:  A federal judge out of Texas who is actually nominated by President Trump is now saying President Biden 
 
 just does not have the power to forgive these student loans by executive order and instead, President Biden would need clear congressional 
 
 authorization to forgive these loans and he would have had to go through more of a process rather than just simply issuing an executive order. 
 
However, we will see an appeal of this decision. The Justice Department has already noticed that it will appeal and this is ultimately a decision that 
 
 could be determined by the Supreme Court. Of course, President Biden issued this executive order in August. It`s estimated that if it goes through, it 
 
 would ultimately cost about $400 billion. 
 
The program though now in doubt, and it`s also been on hold for the past month because of another court decision out of a circuit court that put the 
 
 loan forgiveness rollout on hold while all these legal challenges play out. 
 
You know, we know that about 26 million borrowers already have applied for this debt relief. The government had already approved million of those 
 
 applications, but no debt at all will be canceled for the foreseeable future here because of these court challenges. The White House press 
 
 secretary did however say that the Department of Education will hold on to the information of all of these applicants so it could be processed pretty 
 
 quickly if the program is ultimately given the green light in court.
 
But we`ll have to see how the courts decide this. If it does go all the way to the Supreme Court, it`s possible that the conservative majority on the 
 
 Supreme Court could nix this program as well. You know this has been a majority that`s often skeptical of wide-ranging executive and agency 
 
 action, so this debt forgiveness program could ultimately. Be deemed unconstitutional and if that happens none of these millions of people would 
 
 get any debt relief. But for now this program is also on hold.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Next up, a film crew searching the Atlantic Ocean for World War II artifacts unexpectedly swam upon something much more modern, a 20-foot long 
 
 piece of the Space Shuttle Challenger which exploded shortly after liftoff in 1986.
 
CNN`s space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT:  It was the space shuttle`s very distinctive heat shield tiles that really gave these divers 
 
 their first clue that perhaps they had found a piece of NASA`s old space shuttle Challenger and you can see in the video these white square tiles 
 
 that are you know partially covered by sand now in the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean and those white tiles would have been used to protect the 
 
 underbelly of the space shuttle from the very high temperatures that it would encounter as it re-entered the earth`s atmosphere. 
 
So the lead team member on this expedition, the guy by the name of Mike Barnett, he had a friend who was a former NASA astronaut. He showed him 
 
 this video and that made them convinced that this is indeed what they had found. They brought it to NASA and NASA confirmed it, announcing the 
 
 findings just this week.
 
And so, the big question now is what does NASA do with this? By law, any piece of a space shuttle is NASA property. So NASA is trying to find a way 
 
 to do something with this 20-feet section to do something that would really honor the memory of these seven astronauts that were killed back in January 
 
 of 1986, including Christa McAuliffe who of course would have been the very first teacher in space.
 
Kristin Fisher, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Ten-second trivia:
 
Which U.S. government agency measures job market activity and working conditions?
 
Department of Commerce, Department of State, Bureau of Economic Analysis, Bureau of Labor Statistics?
 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics serves as the statistical resource for the U.S. Department of Labor.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  For the past year, the job market has been strong. In October, the economy created 261,000 new jobs. But things may not quite be what they 
 
 seem. Job hires dropped to a low not seen in more than a year and a half. 
 
We`ll hear now from CNN business and politics correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich who`s finding out why getting a job might not be as easy as some 
 
 might think, and how some people are getting creative to get noticed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARLY PAVLINAC, JOB SEEKER:  I`m open to all options.
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Karly Pavlinac is on stage in a high-stakes competition. The potential 
 
 prize: a new job.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  How do you make sure you`re working with the right talent, you`re finding the right connections?
 
PAVLINAC:  The biggest thing is just being able to communicate the idea.
 
YURKEVICH:  This is not the first time Pavlinac has done something unconventional to land an interview, since losing her marketing job in 
 
 September. After she didn`t hear back for a position at Nike, she sent them a cake with her resume on it. 
 
PAVLINAC:  I`ve been applying obviously that hasn`t worked yet, so let me throw something new in the mix and see if that you know works.
 
YURKEVICH:  Her resume cake making headlines. 
 
PAVLINAC:  I`ve since talked to a bunch of people at Nike but still no job.
 
YURKEVICH:  But the economic data tells a different story. The jobs market is strong. There are 10.7 million open positions, labor shortages and 
 
 hundreds of thousands of jobs being added each month. 
 
Yet some job seekers even with a viral cake moment can`t seem to land one.
 
LIZ ANN SONDERS, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST:  On the surface, this is still fairly strong labor market. But if you go a couple of layers under, 
 
 you are starting to see more significant cracks in the surface that suggest we should eventually see it in those more popular headline type labor 
 
 market readings.
 
YURKEVICH:  Cracks like a slowdown in hiring, as seen in this week`s job opening survey. Hires dropping to 6.1 million, the lowest since February 
 
 2021, and the tech industry is shutting jobs percent more than last year. 
 
PAVLINAC:  My perception of the job market was there were a ton of jobs out there and it was going to be easy to find a job, and that actually hasn`t 
 
 been the case.
 
YURKEVICH:  Another crack of the 10.7 million open jobs, some companies might be advertising positions they aren`t actively trying to fill.
 
PAVLINAC:  I have applied to many jobs that they`re still sitting there, that`s been a giant question in my head. 
 
YURKEVICH:  It`s called pipelining talent. Companies post jobs to develop a pool of candidates.
 
Recruiter Laura Mazzullo says she sees companies do it all the time.
 
LAURA MAZZULLO, FOUNDER, EAST SIDE STAFFING:  Candidates don`t know that`s what`s happening. So they`re being pipelined when actually they think 
 
 they`re applying for an active job and this is where we`re seeing a bit of a disconnect. 
 
YURKEVICH:  That may mean as the labor market weakens, job seekers can`t be as picky.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Our goal is potentially to give away two jobs tonight.
 
PAVLINAC:  I have been picking in that sense of where I want to work but I know what I want. I`m still searching, still talking to people. I`ve come 
 
 to terms that it is taking longer than I thought.
 
YURKEVICH:  Vanessa Yurkevich, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Today`s 10 out of 10 is from Minnesota man James Rasmussen as we head into the holiday season. He`s hoping to avoid the terra bowel 
 
 experience he had last season. He couldn`t figure out who-who was cutting his outdoor Christmas lights. Turns out it was the owl who stole Christmas, 
 
 using the lights to deck its own halls, its nest under Rasmussen`s deck. Critters, there`s no talon what they`ll do. Better luck nest time Mr. 
 
 Rasmussen.
 
Without further owl do, a special shout out now to Ryan Middle in Fairbanks, Alaska. Wishing you and everyone watching around the world some 
 
 motivation this Monday.
 
Remember, someday, you`ll look back and refer to these as the good old days. So be grateful for the good.
 
I`m Coy. This is CNN 10.
 
END