Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Ex-Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu Seems To Be On The Brink Of Victory; Jair Bolsonaro Doesn't Concede But Says He'll Abide By Constitution; Iran Plans To Send More Weapons To Russia; A Thousand People Facing Public Trial Over Protests In Iran. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired November 02, 2022 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:00:23]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Coming up here on CNN NEWSROOM. Israel's political Houdini will set for a second act. But at what cost? 
 
Benjamin Netanyahu's return as prime minister will be possible after he made a deal with far right Jewish extremists. 
 
He didn't concede, he didn't congratulate, but he did speak and many in Brazil breathed a sigh of relief as Bolsonaro agrees to a peaceful transfer of power. 
 
And from one international pariah to another, Iran looks set to supply more combat drones and now ballistic missiles to Russia. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with John Vause.
 
VAUSE: Well, official results from Israel's election are expected in the next day or so it appears according to exit polls, former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is on the verge of another political comeback. An outcome which is stunning, but not surprising, especially given the surge of support from the ultranationalist far right wing. 
 
The former ruling Likud party also increased his presence in the Knesset or parliament. The party celebrating an expected return to power as well as the resurgence of Benjamin Netanyahu.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, FORMER ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): One thing is already clear our way, the Likud's way has proven itself. I remind you that from 52 seats in the last election, we are now on the verge of a very big victory.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Netanyahu's come back was made possible by a coalition deal he made with the far right, in particular religious Zionism, which is likely to more than double the number of seats it holds in the Knesset. But all of this comes with an asterisk. If the Israeli television exit
 
 polls are in fact accurate. But Netanyahu the support from the far right gets his potential coalition government over the line to a very slim majority, 61 maybe 62 seats in the 120 seat parliament. 
 
But the Acting Prime Minister Yair Lapid who rose to power as the leader of the anyone but Bibi block is clinging to one last hope, that the exit polling is wrong. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YAIR LAPID, ACTING ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): This night may go on for two days until the last envelope is counted, nothing is over close. We will wait patiently even if we don't have patience or a final data.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Live now to Jerusalem journalist Neri Ziber is with us for the very latest on the elections for some analysis. So thanks for coming in at this early hour. 
 
(CROSSTALK) 
 
Hi, if Netanyahu is to form this coalition government in theory, what? It should be more stable politically, less inviting, because this block would be politically and ideologically aligned, which is kind of what Bibi has been selling. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NETANYAHU (through translator): I intend to form a strong national study government. I think the atmosphere has changed, I can feel it. I hear from the people. And they say we now want the real change. We want to return the State of Israel to the place it deserves. And I intend to do it together with my friends.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: So, unlike the previous coalition government, which started out with what? 62 seats, lasted just over a year. Again, in theory, this could put an end to what has been for years of election addiction. What are the chances of return to some kind of normalcy here?
 
NERI ZIBER, JERUSALEM JOURNALIST: That's right, John. Netanyahu on the campaign trail in recent months was selling precisely that, big banners with his face and the Likud party logo, only the Likud can.
 
Telling the Israeli public that only the Likud could actually form a majority and stable government, a coalition government here under Israel's fractious parliamentary system. 
 
And according to the exit polls, as you mentioned, that's the more likely outcome. And we should also say yes, he's going to form or most likely form this governing coalition with what he has termed his natural partners on the Israeli right. The ultra-orthodox parties, and yes, the far right religious Zionism party, would is set to be his most senior coalition partner.
 
VAUSE: Yes, in fact, we just heard from Netanyahu talking about forming this government with his friends and his friends are in fact that hard right party, the religious Zionism.
 
And (INAUDIBLE) the victory celebration last night for religious Zionism. Witnesses say the crowd chanted death to Arabs, alongside the more prevalent calls for death to terrorists. The party said the crowd only chanted death to terrorists. 
 
This party was once considered too extreme for mainstream politics. He wants to end Palestinian autonomy and parts of the West Bank, the party's leader talks to deporting disloyal citizens and politicians. It's well known for his anti-Arab rhetoric. 
 
And as you say, it's now the sen or the second senior partner in this coalition, potentially, the third biggest party in Israel. 
 <br>[00:05:07]
 
Is Israel on the road to becoming the next Hungary and Viktor Orban?
 
ZIBER: Well, look, that is a concern amongst large portions of the Israeli center and left and even amongst the Arab Israeli minority which makes up to 20 percent of the Israeli public. 
 
So, yes, it is a concern because it's not only Ben-Gvir and religious Zionism that are touting a lot of these, what they call, "reforms" of Israel's judicial system. It's Likud members and officials themselves, who were talking about undercutting the independence of the Israeli judiciary and the Supreme Court, undercutting the power of the attorney general, and even just over the past two hours, senior Likud official said he would outlaw the flying of the Palestinian flag in Israel and revoke the citizenship of any terrorists and presumably only Arab terrorists, not Jewish terrorists. 
 
So yes, there is concern there. On the face of it, Netanyahu is trying to project a more moderate image tonight, trying to assuage some concerns amongst the wider Israeli public, to say nothing to the international community, which is closely monitoring any potential future Israeli government consisting of extremists like he will just lead as a party.
 
VAUSE: You touched on this, religious Zionism wants to rewrite parts of the legal code. Not all of it, just some of it. Like the corruption laws, which Netanyahu is accused of breaking. 
 
So, what he allegedly did would no longer be illegal. Nothing shady about that. Netanyahu's Likud party is also happy to go along for the ride, listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMIR OHANA, LIKUD LAWMAKER: I want the right wing government. And although I have my differences with Ben-Gvir, we have a lot in common. And I would like to see a right wing government that would rule and make all the changes and reforms in the judicial branch. And yes, Ben- Gvir is a partner to that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Separation of powers is such a novel concept. Will religious Zionism have an outside influence in this potential coalition? It'll be the second most senior party there, but overall, will it be sort of taking the lead if you like?
 
ZIBER: I think that's a good way to put it, John. It really over the past year and a half under the change government lead by centrist Yair Lapid and various other centrist and left wing factions. 
 
There was a constant campaign by Netanyahu and his far right allies to delegitimize this government precisely due to the fact that it had Arab Israeli political parties as part of the governing coalition. 
 
And really, this has been a far right Israeli talking point for many years. And it was adopted by Netanyahu and his Likud party. 
 
So really, it's a Frankenstein monster as it were, has almost taken over the house and Netanyahu will be beholden to religious Zionism and its agenda if and when he forms his next government, which seems likely after yesterday's vote.
 
VAUSE: Neri, thank you very much for being with us. There's a special place in heaven for people to get up at 6:00 a.m. for live shots. Thank you. 
 
ZIBER: My pleasure. 
 
VAUSE: South Korean officials say North Korea has fired at least 10 missiles early Wednesday morning. Three of the 10 was short range ballistic missiles. One landed around 60 kilometers off the south coast, prompting air raid warnings on a remote South Korean island. 
 
The provocative launches also drew a sharp review from South Korean military officials. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KANG SHIN-CHUL, JCS DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS (through translator): This missile launch marks the first time since the division of the Peninsula that has landed near our territorial waters south of the Northern limit line. It's very rare and we can never tolerate it. Our military will firmly respond to it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The launch just following warnings from Pyongyang on Monday for the U.S. and South Korea to stop their large scale joint military operations which began this week. 
 
He speaks, he didn't say much which was oddly out of character. But it was just enough for many in Brazil to breathe easy. 
 
It took two days for outgoing President Jair Bolsonaro, we can say that now, outgoing, to break his silence after losing to the leftists Luis Inacio Lula da Silva.
 
Bolsonaro gave a speech from the presidential palace on Tuesday, where he promised to abide by the Constitution. 
 
Notably, he did not explicitly concede defeat. But the far right leader's chief-of-staff says he's been given the green light to work with the incoming government. Signaling Mr. Bolsonaro's cooperation with a peaceful transfer of power. 
 
Brazil's Supreme Court says the outgoing, there it is again, president effectively acknowledged his loss. But as CNN's Paula Newton reports, some Bolsonaro supporters are still not convinced.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR (voice over): As President Jair Bolsonaro prepared to finally break his silence, police forces across the country moved to break up hundreds of blockades, snarling traffic, slowing supply routes and rattling already frayed nerves. 
 
Police were acting on orders to use force, orders that never came from Bolsonaro himself. 
 <br>[00:10:01]
 
Instead, in a terse two minutes statement, he said he would respect the Constitution, but he neither admitted defeat nor recognize the results of the election and had this to say to supporters blocking roads across the country.
 
JAIR BOLSONARO, BRAZILIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Peaceful demonstrations will always be welcomed but our methods cannot be those of the left like property invasion, destruction of goods and restrictions on the rights to come and go.
 
NEWTON: On the barricades, some of the protesters mounting insurgent campaigns nationwide had this to say.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): This was a statement where he didn't say anything conclusive. It gives us the impression that there was something wrong with the elections. That is a plus for us to continue our stand and keep protesting.
 
NEWTON: Many here say they are committed to a patriotic cause, standing up for the president they elected.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Country and freedom, just that. We don't accept those won, are not just us, but a large part of Brazilian population.
 
NEWTON: These protests, sporadic, unpredictable and yet effective, are taking a damaging toll on this fragile economy and more. 
 
This trucker was stuck on the road overnight, and his wife fell ill and had to be taken to hospital. UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Personally, I'm against this, the people have made their choice. If they wanted to lock things down, they shouldn't do it to business, people have to work.
 
NEWTON (on camera): Even among officials that back Bolsonaro, there is a great reluctance to support any kind of civil disobedience. It's the reason that they have ordered these blockades to end even if police have to use force, they do not believe that these kinds of protests will resolve any of the division in the country.
 
RODRIGO GARCIA, SAO PAULO GOVERNOR: It will not be a demonstration or a riot that will make society not recognize the result of the polls to the victors, the mandate to the losers the acknowledgement of defeat.
 
NEWTON (voice over): After a bruising campaign and a vague signal from Bolsonaro that he will give up power to President-elect Lula da Silva, Brazil seems destined for more political division now playing out on its streets and jeopardizing an already tense transfer of power.
 
Paula Newton, CNN, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Brian Winter is editor-in-chief of Americas quarterly as well as Vice President of Policy for the American society and Council of the Americas. Welcome back, Brian. Good to see you.
 
BRIAN WINTER, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, AMERICAS QUARTERLY: Good to be back.
 
VAUSE: OK, in terms of concession, recognizing defeat, affirming it was the other guy who won. This was his closest we got to that on Tuesday, and it wasn't from Bolsonaro. Here it is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CIRO NOGUEIRA, CHIEF-OF-STAFF, BRAZILIAN PRESIDENCY (through translator): President Jair Bolsonaro has authorized me when prompted. Based on the law, we will begin the transition process.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: That's Bolsonaro's chief-of-staff. And apparently, by agreeing to the transition of power, legally, that's seen as tacit approval of the election results. 
 
So, why talk around the outcome and not here and went there? Why not just congratulate the winner? There was once a time when if you weren't gracious in defeat, it was political death.
 
WINTER: Yes, that's quite old fashioned thing to say unfortunately, in my view. I mean, look, what we saw today was as close to a white flag as we were ever likely to see from President Bolsonaro and his allies. 
 
It's true that Bolsonaro did not congratulate Lula, did not explicitly recognize his defeat. But he did say that he would obey the Constitution. And he authorized his chief-of-staff to say that the transition would soon be underway. 
 
And for those of us who have spent months now, if not longer, worrying about the possibility of institutional crisis, something similar to what we saw in the United States following the 2020 election. This was a pretty big sigh of relief. It's not a perfect situation, as you point out, but it could have been a lot worse.
 
VAUSE: It took two days to come up with that two minutes speech by Bolsonaro. And there is some reporting that he is now -- he was actually locked in negotiations to try and show that both him and his family are not prosecuted once he's out of office.
 
Bolsonaro does have some legal concerns, is everything on the table from corruption to the mishandling of the pandemic, how much weight do you put into that reporting?
 
WINTER: That sounds true. I mean, I think the story of what happened during these 48 hours where President Bolsonaro remained totally silent. I think that story remains to be told but what I'm hearing and what's being reported in the Brazilian press was that it was in the end, it was his allies who prevailed upon him to at least come out and at some level acknowledge the result. 
 
And they have reason to do that because even though Bolsonaro lost, his conservative movement came out of this election pretty strong with a lot of political capital. Governors aligned with Bolsonaro will run Brazil's three most populous states. I think all of his former ministers who ran for Congress won in their elections. 
 <br>[00:15:15]
 
And so, you know, a lot of his allies were saying to him, look, we know that you're upset. Yes, we agree with you that the system was against us again, in their view. But let's live to fight another day.
 
VAUSE: Bolsonaro also made reference to the electoral success by the right wing parties in recent elections. Here it is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLSONARO (through translator): The right really emerged in our country, our robust representation in Congress shows the strength of our values, God, country, family and freedom.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: President-elect Lula da Silva is already facing some pretty big challenges. How much harder will all this be without a politically aligned Congress?
 
WINTER: I think it's going to be really hard for Lula. You know, expectations are somewhat high, just because Lula who was president, of course, from 2003 to 2010, that was an era of bonanza for Brazil. The world is much more difficult this time around, the global economy is harder, Brazilian politics are harder, it's a much more conservative country than it was before where he's going to be facing, you know, having to negotiate in some case with parties that at least for now are working with Bolsonaro. 
 
So, you know, I think a lot of the left and people who were worried about democracy in Brazil, they breathed a big sigh of relief today, but it's not going to last for very long.
 
VAUSE: The other unknown in all this is how Bolsonaro supporters will react. They've been manning hundreds of roadblocks on highways across the country, that's in defiance of a Supreme Court order to clear the way. 
 
New York Times is reporting this, protesters said that they were trying to create enough of a disruption that the military would intervene, enabling the president and the armed forces to overturn the election. 
 
That seems straight out of the Donald Trump election playbook, which would suggest Jair Bolsonaro's loyal followers are far from ready to go quietly into the night just like Donald Trump supporters.
 
WINTER: I do think at the same time that things de-escalated today, the risk of massive violence, the risk of some sort of concerted effort to either overturn the result, or make life really difficult for Lula from day one, there will be some voices who will be out there seeking chaos and confusion. 
 
But I don't think it's going to be the majority. I think that things really did get better as a result of the events of the last 48 hours.
 
VAUSE: It does seem like the pressure was led out of what was a very stressful, tense moment there. 
 
Brian, thank you very much for that. We appreciate your time. 
 
WINTER: Thank you.
 
VAUSE: Still to come here on CNN, oh, the dilemma. When you're an international pariah and running low on missiles, where do you go for new supplies? Another international pariah. 
 
Also ahead, the trials are underway. The very public trials of antigovernment protesters in Iran. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:20:19]
 
VAUSE: Welcome back. Ukrainian officials say a Russian barrage of artillery and rocket attacks has not led up on the front lines. Parts of the Donetsk region are among the hardest hit. 
 
Ukrainian forces remain in control of Bakhmut but the city has been devastated by the deadly attacks by Russian soldiers. 
 
Ukraine says more than 50 settlements were hit in 24 hours from Kharkiv in the north to Zaporizhzhia in the South. And in Russian occupied Kherson, the fighting is intensifying as Ukrainian forces try to break down Russian defenses.
 
Civilians there are continuing to leave. Now, Ukraine's military is accusing Russian installed officials in Kherson of spreading information to try and get residents to flee in a forced evacuation. 
 
Russia may soon get a much needed boost on the battlefield with Iran preparing to send the country more weapons. 
 
Western officials tell CNN about a thousand additional weapons are expected to be sent to Russia from Iran and that would include for the first time advanced precision guided missiles along with more combat drones. 
 
Ukrainian military intelligence says a batch of more than 200 drones are expected to arrive in Russia, including Iran's new combat drone, the Arash-2.
 
Russia has recently increased its use of drones to attack cities across Ukraine and target the critical infrastructure. And the U.S. is expressing concern over these latest developments.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIG. GEN. PAT RYDER, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: We do know that Russia has provided or excuse me, Iran has provided Russia with UAVs which we anticipate they'll likely seek more of those. 
 
We do have concerns that Russia may also seek to acquire additional advanced munitions capabilities from Iran for example, surface to surface missiles to use in Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Ukraine claims to have shot down more than 300 attack drones since early September. Still, many have managed to get through those defenses and hit their targets, causing severe damage. 
 
But Vladimir Putin's unprovoked war in Ukraine has faced some strong criticism from some prominent Russians. And now, one billionaire says he's renouncing his Russian citizenship in protest. Details now from CNN's Matthew Chance.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): He's one of the most high-profile richest Russians to publicly condemn the Ukraine war. 
 
The billionaire who founded the Tinkoff Bank, one of Russia's biggest lenders, now renouncing his Russian citizenship, a major slap to the Kremlin's face.
 
He's even posted the termination document online, along with scathing criticism of the Russian state.
 
I can't and won't be associated with a fascist country, Tinkov wrote on his Instagram page, a country that started a war with their peaceful neighbor.
 
He went even further calling on other wealthy Russians to also leave the country behind. 
 
I hope more prominent Russian businessman will follow me, Tinkov writes, so it weakens Putin's regime and his economy and puts him eventually towards defeat. 
 
The post was quickly deleted, which Tinkov blames on Kremlin trolls. 
 
It's not the first time Tinkov has publicly criticized Putin and his Ukrainian conflict. But these almost daily scenes of violence and its horrors seem to have galvanized the billionaire. 
 
Back in May, Tinkov, who's suffering from cancer spoke of how his own fight for survival made it impossible to stay silent in the face of so much killing. 
 
OLEG TINKOV, RUSSIAN BUSINESSMAN (through translator): You see kids, women, people dying for nothing, being murdered by someone. 
 
I mean, the Russian army is killing them for nothing. You can die from cancer. But why should you die from a bomb just because you live in Ukraine. This is messed up, especially in the 21st century.
 
CHANCE: Of course, there have been other prominent Russian billionaires who criticize the Ukraine war. Even Oleg Deripaska, a metals magnate, known to be close to Putin has called it a colossal mistake, stopping short of blaming the Kremlin.
 
OLEG DERIPASKA, RUSSIAN BILLIONAIRE: Get lost, please. 
 
CHANCE: And earlier this month, another billionaire investor Yuri Milner, said he renounced his Russian passport too.
 
Tinkov seen here in London where despite British sanctions, he still spends much of his time. Says he only ever met Putin once for a beer more than 20 years ago. But he says he hates Putin's Russia, and is now severing himself from it altogether, of what he calls Putin's crazy war. 
 <br>[00:25:14]
 
Matthew Chance, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: In Iran, it seems the so-called public trials of antigovernment protesters might not be so public after all. They may have started last week, maybe on Saturday, but they have begun.
 
The demonstrations still continue. This is Tehran on Tuesday where a protest took place on a university campus in support of those jailed protesters. About a thousand are standing in trial (INAUDIBLE).
 
CNN obtained this video from a pro-reform activist outlet called IranWire. Nationwide protests now into the seventh week of the grueling autocracies biggest challenge in years, despite a brutal crackdown to stop them.
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh has more now reporting in from Istanbul.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): More than a thousand people have so far been indicted in Iran. According to Iranian state media and judicial authorities, hundreds of them in Tehran province as well as other parts of the country for taking part in the protests over the past six weeks for their role in these demonstrations. 
 
The public trials, according to state media in revolutionary courts began over the weekend and are continuing. 
 
One Iranian official telling state media that they were hoping that these will be speedy trials. Some of those on trial right now will be facing very serious charges including killing members of the security forces, attempting to destabilize the country and overthrow the regime, destruction of public property, so the expectation is that many will be facing the death penalty.
 
And we are talking about a country that has a very high rate of executions, a country that for years has been criticized by human rights organizations for its flawed judicial system, for not providing people with fair trials. Human rights organizations also accused them of extracting confessions in many cases under torture. 
 
So, a lot of concern for those who will be standing trial right now. And the fear is that the government, the regime will be using this to try and make an example of those protesters to try and deter people from taking part in these ongoing protests. 
 
Over the past nearly seven weeks now, the regime has used everything that is used in the past to try and crush protests, whether it is the brutal crackdown that we have seen taking place on the streets, the arrests, the beatings, the use of live fire, according to human rights organizations, as well as the most severe warning to date that we heard over the weekend coming from the hand of the feared Revolutionary Guards, telling protesters that Saturday was their last day and an ultimatum telling them that they should not come back out to the streets. 
 
Despite all of this, despite these trials, people are still defiant, they are still taking to the streets. We've seen also university students continuing their protests as well, on university campuses across the country in Tehran and other places on Tuesday as well. 
 
Nearly seven weeks since these protests started, the Iranian regime is struggling to contain what has become this national uprising that is posing one of the biggest threats to the Islamic Republic. 
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) VAUSE: When we come back here on CNN, the stunning revelation by police in Seoul, about what happened before the crowd crunched that left 150 dead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back. I'm John Vause. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 <br>[00:31:18]
 
Four long hours before it happened, before 156 people were killed, countless others were injured, four long hours before a crowd surged in a narrow alleyway in Seoul, records show police were warned about a possible dangerous crush of people. And it happened, at a Halloween party on Saturday. 
 
As grieving families collect the belongings of their loved ones from a gym, the prime minister and police chief have admitted mistakes were made. 
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks has details. And a warning: parts of her report is graphic. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): How does a night of celebration turn into this, too many people in too cramped an area, eyewitnesses claim a lack of police and no crowd control. 
 
Officials say many police were deployed elsewhere in the city for expected protests, admitting they have no guidelines for policing this kind of crowd without an organizer. 
 
Park Chang-Ki is a parking attendant who was working across the road. He says the crowds were significant by 4 p.m. Saturday. By 7 p.m., people were spilling into the street. 
 
PARK CHANG-KI, ITAEWON PARKING ATTENDANT (through translator): I believe it was preventable. Local officials, police and firemen checked out the area the day before. They should have known how many people would come out.  
 
HANCOCKS: This is the heart of Itaewon, and right here is the alleyway which sloped downwards toward the main road, where many people lost their lives. 
 
It's around four meters wide. That's 13 feet. It has the wall of a hotel on one side and shops on the other side. 
 
Now one first responders said when she arrived here, all she could see was up to ten rows of faces. She couldn't see any legs, meaning that victims are piled on top of each other. 
 
Now this back alley here, this is also filled with bars, restaurants and nightclubs. We saw from images just how crammed it was. In fact, we saw one man try to scale the outside of a building to try and escape the crush. 
 
And down here, you have the main road, four lanes, which just a couple of weeks ago for a festival, were closed to traffic. It wasn't closed to traffic on Saturday, meaning people were condensed more in this area. 
 
Twenty meters away from the opening of that alleyway is the exit of a subway, which remained open, allowing people to continue arriving in the area. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over) This video taken at 9 p.m. shows the density of the crowd in the narrow alleyway. A photo half an hour later shows more people still arriving in the area by subway. 
 
So what are investigators looking for? 
 
KEITH STILL, CROWD SAFETY ANALYST: It's always a question of staffing, with the basic geometry. Looking at the crowd flow, was it reasonably foreseeable that this could exceed safe limits? If it's reasonably foreseeable, it's predictable, and hence, it's preventable. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): The police chief apologized Tuesday, saying that the response to the emergency calls was inadequate. The police deployed just 137 officers to deal with a crowd that may have topped 100,000, the majority tasked with crime prevention, not crowd control. 
 
Paula Hancocks, CNN, Seoul. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Dozens are missing after two boats carrying migrants capsized off the coast of Greece. 
 
This was the view from a Greek coast guard ship as it searched for survivors. A few have been pulled from the water. 
 
One of the boats, though, was carrying more than 60 people. Another capsized Monday with more than a dozen people on board. 
 
Greece has been an entry point for Europe's migration crisis with refugees fleeing war and poverty across parts of the Middle East. 
 
The Indian state of Gujarat is marking a day of mourning for 135 people killed in Sunday's bridge collapse. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the site of the accident and spoke with survivors in the hospital. 
 
Modi pledged compensation for the government, but as CNN's Vedika Sud reports, families just went their loved ones back. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:35:00]
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): And seconds later, it came crashing down, captured on security camera. The suspension bridge collapsing with at least 200 people on it, sending them plunging into the river in a town in western India. Many clinging to the bridge's safety net, crying out for help. 
 
ASHWIN MEHRA, SURVIVED BRIDGE COLLAPSE (through translator): Death was in front of us. By God's grace, we could hold the safety net, and did not let our grips go loose, and came out safely. 
 
SUD (voice-over): But not all survived. About 20 kilometers from the accident site, women from Kanpura (ph) village consoled Nikita. She's lost her husband and 11 family members. 
 
NIKITA, FAMILY MEMBERS DIED IN BRIDGE COLLAPSE (through translator): My husband never goes without me. He never goes anywhere without telling me. 
 
SUD (voice-over): The colonial-era bridge, a popular local tourist spot, was reopened recently after renovation. Videos from Sunday evening show a crowd on the swaying bridge, before the cables snapped. 
 
Rescue workers scrambled to pull victims from the river. Many children and women among the dead. 
 
COMMANDER V.V.N. PRASANNA KUMAR, INDIAN NATIONAL DISASTER RESPONSE FORCE: It is suspected that some bodies may be there on the floor of the river. 
 
SUD (voice-over): The focus is now on a private company contracted to maintain the bridge. Criminal cases have been filed against junior employees. The company has not responded to requests for comment by CNN. 
 
Gujarat is Indian Prime Minister Modi's home state. He's announced a cash compensation to families of victims. But many want accountability. 
 
AZMERI ABEDA, RELATIVE OF VICTIM (through translator): It's the poor who had to pay the price. Now, what will the government do? They will give them compensation of 2,000 to $5,000, but that money will not bring back the dead husband or the daughter or the son, will it? 
 
SUD (voice-over): It took 20 cents to walk on this bridge. But it's cost these families their loved ones. 
 
Vedika Sud, CNN, New Delhi. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Still to come here on CNN, it turns out the suspect who allegedly planned to kidnap U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had other public officials on his list, as well. We're following that story. More in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: It's been a good year for hackers using ransomware. According to the U.S. Treasury, more than a billion dollars in ransomware- related payments were made in the U.S. last year. 
 
This comes as three dozen governments are meeting in Washington this week to discuss how to prevent illicit flows of ransom payments, how to make organization more resilient to hackers. 
 
Russia, which the U.S. Treasury says is connected to the five most used hacking tools, will not be there for the talks. 
 <br>[00:45:07]
 
There are new details about the man charged with viciously attacking House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's husband, Paul. 
 
San Francisco's district attorney tells CNN David DePape intended to target other public officials, and Pelosi's home was the first stop. The case is still very fresh, so the D.A. is not able to share specific details of who DePape was trying to target. 
 
Meantime, the 42-year-old suspect was in court Tuesday for his initial appearance. He's charged with a litany of crimes, including attempted murder. 
 
CNN's Josh Campbell has our report from San Francisco. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Forty-two- year-old David DePape making an appearance in a San Francisco court Tuesday with his arm in a sling, pleading not guilty to all state charges filed in Friday's politically-motivated attack on Paul Pelosi. 
 
ADAM LIPSON, SAN FRANCISCO DEPUTY PUBLIC DEFENDER: We're going to be doing a comprehensive investigation of what happened. We are going to be looking into Mr. DePape, his mental state. 
 
CAMPBELL (voice-over): DePape waived his right to a hearing within ten days and is being held in a San Francisco county jail until his next court appearance on November 4. 
 
The judge signed a protective order for no contact with the Pelosis. 
 
DePape is facing charges that could lead to 13 years to life in prison if convicted. Those charges include attempted murder, burglary, assault with a deadly weapon, false imprisonment, as well as threats to a public official and a family. 
 
BROOKE JENKINS, SAN FRANCISCO DISTRICT ATTORNEY: Mr. DePape specifically targeted the Pelosi home to confront Speaker Pelosi. 
 
CAMPBELL (voice-over): DePape's attorney, deputy public defender Adam Lipson, responding to questions Tuesday about motive.
 
LIPSON: There's also been a lot of speculation regarding Mr. DePape's vulnerability to misinformation, and that's certainly something that we're going to look into. 
 
CAMPBELL (voice-over): Authorities are still rebutting conspiracy theories that Paul Pelosi and DePape knew each other. 
 
CHIEF WILLIAM SCOTT, SAN FRANCISCO POLICE DEPARTMENT: There is absolutely no evidence that Mr. Pelosi knew this man. 
 
CAMPBELL (voice-over): Paul Pelosi is still hospitalized after being struck on the head with a hammer, sustaining a skull fracture and other serious injuries. 
 
Parallel investigations into the attack by the FBI and San Francisco Police are now underway, with new details emerging that DePape brought two hammers, zip ties, rope, and a roll of tape to the Pelosi home 
 
DePape now also faces federal charges of assault and attempted kidnapping of a U.S. official stemming from the attack, caught on police body cam, which authorities said would not be released until the case goes to trial. 
 
Now with a wave of recent threats to election officials, the head of the Capitol Police said Tuesday his agency's mission has become increasingly urgent, writing in a statement, "We believe today's political climate calls for more resources to provide additional layers of physical security for members of Congress." 
 
Chief Tom Manger adding, "During this time of heightened political tension, we continue to monitor thousands of cases across the country in an effort to stop potential threats before they make headlines." 
 
CAMPBELL: And as Mr. Pelosi remains in the hospital recovering from those very serious injuries, CNN is learning from our sources that the Pelosi family could get access to the 9-1-1 call from early Friday morning, as well as the police body camera, as officers responded to the scene. That could come as early as Wednesday. 
 
Josh Campbell, CNN, San Francisco. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: I'm John Vause. Back at the top of the hour with more CNN NEWSROOM. But in the meantime, WORLD SPORT starts after a short break. See you in about 17 minutes, I hope.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:23]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[00:57:42]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)