Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: January 6 Committee Considering At Least Three Criminal Referrals Against Trump; Zelensky Criticizing FIFA For Refusing His Video Message Of Peace; Sam Bankman-Fried Faces Court Hearing In Bahamas. Aired 7:30-8a ET

Aired December 19, 2022 - 07:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:30:00]
 
DONALD AYER, DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL UNDER PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH: Well, where we are now is we have this whole backdrop of what occurred. And it's now in the hands of the special counsel, which I think was a -- I wasn't necessarily in favor of it at the time but I think it was a prudent thing to do. It's in the hands of a person whose job is now to just look at the evidence, look at the case. Decide under the guidelines of the department whether this is a proper case to bring. And that's now what has to happen.
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR:  Look, not to cut you off here but -- I mean, I don't want to put words in your mouth but it sounds to me like you're saying you think that there should be an indictment.
 
AYER:  Well, the bottom line question is always the question that goes to the Justice Department and they have to assess the quality of the case they have that they can put on in court, and that involves admissible evidence. These hearings could put on a variety of kinds of evidence. Most of it probably is admissible. It's got to be firsthand evidence -- people, documents, things admissible. They have to make that ultimate judgment. 
 
LEMON:  But from what you've seen.
 
AYER:  From what I've seen, I think there's enormous evidence, as I said before, of Donald Trump's -- number one -- and there are three factors that the department thinks about prominently when they are -- when they're looking at this.
 
One is the nature and seriousness of the offense. Well, what could be more serious? 
 
The second element is the importance of deterrence. Is it -- is it important to deter this conduct in the future. Well, we have people out there who are trying to work to do this again next time.
 
And then the final question is the -- it's not the final question but it's the third in order of priority -- is the culpability of the person you're focused on prosecuting. Well, we now know from these hearings that Donald Trump's level of culpability is through the roof. He's the one that made this happen. So all of those factors line up.
 
Now, the question for Jack Smith, who doesn't have to sit here and think as Merrick Garland would -- well, I'm the right -- you know, I'm the -- I'm in the cabinet of the President of the United States --
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR:  Yes.
 
AYER:  -- who defeated Donald Trump. Oh, this is going to look like a banana republic. We don't want to be part of this. 
 
Jack Smith's I'm a prosecutor. I've got a question to ask. Can I prosecute this case? And another element is can you probably win before a jury. That's his job and that's what he's going to do, and he's going to look at that.
 
LEMON:  Yes. Wow, thank you.
 
COLLINS:  And a really interesting thing -- yes, thank you so much. They're going to release this report -- part of it today and I think all of it Wednesday. The Justice Department is going to learn a lot from this report, too. They don't know everyone that the committee has interviewed. They don't -- they haven't seen the transcripts of these interviews because the committee hasn't shared them with the DOJ yet.
 
AYER:  Right, and I think --
 
COLLINS:  So --
 
AYER:  -- that will -- you know, we don't know how much it will expand what they know but surely it will. It'll give them a breadth of information.
 
LEMON:  Donald Ayer, thank you so much.
 
AYER:  Thank you.
 
LEMON:  We really appreciate you joining us this morning.
 
AYER:  You bet. Glad to be here.
 
LEMON:  President Zelensky's message of peace blocked from the World Cup. We have exclusive CNN reporting on how he is reacting this morning.
 
COLLINS:  And the people have spoken. Elon Musk asked Twitter if he should step down as the CEO. Millions said yes. Will he actually do it?
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[07:37:02]
 
LEMON:  All right, welcome back, everyone. There -- the sun's coming up. Welcome back to CNN THIS MORNING in beautiful Washington, D.C. We're live here ahead of the January 6 committee's final public meeting. We're going to have much more on that in just a moment.
 
And we're live in the Bahamas. It's ahead of disgraced FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried's court hearing.
 
And the Biden administration is bracing for a surge in migrants as a Trump-era immigration policy expires this week.
 
COLLINS:  Also, Ukrainian President Zelensky now criticizing FIFA after the World Cup's governing body refused to show a video that he taped -- a message of peace -- ahead of the final match on Sunday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator):  This is the meaning of football. Everyone has a chance to win. Everyone can show that he is the strongest. But the competition is on the playing field, not on the battlefield. Although FIFA blocked this address from being shown at the stadium before the final game in Qatar, the world still heard our call. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS:  CNN's Matthew Chance is live in London. You know, Matthew, if they had aired this video, so many people are watching the World Cup. It would have had a really big reach. What else are you hearing from them on this?
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, tens of millions of people throughout the world, of course -- probably more than that -- watching the World Cup final, which was an extraordinary game, by the way. I don't know whether you got a chance to watch it. 
 
But from a Ukrainian point of view, it was an opportunity to put across their message to call for a sort of peace situation to emerge in what is the biggest war that's underway in the world at the moment. And the Ukrainians were absolutely furious. I spoke to them over the weekend. 
 
The FIFA had rejected or rebuffed their offer to put out a video -- a recorded message from Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, talking about that general urging of peace to these millions of fans that would have been watching the final around the world. The FIFA haven't rejected -- haven't responded to that at the moment.
 
But what the Ukrainians told me is that they were told by FIFA that the message was too political. It's something that the leadership of FIFA didn't want to put across on the World Cup final. And the Ukrainians, though, pushing back, saying look FIFA shouldn't be frightened about putting a message of peace out in what is meant to be a celebration of peace through the World Cup.
 
Nations can prove that their -- who's the strongest on the -- on the playing field instead of on the battlefield. That was the general message of Zelensky's address. 
 
And so, yes, the game has happened now -- it's all over. It was an amazing game. But it's left a sort of slight bitterness in the -- in the mouth of the Ukrainian leadership and they see it as a missed opportunity to promote peace, Kaitlan.
 
COLLINS:  Yes, and it seems almost as political of a decision to not air it as they presumably thought it was to air it.
 
CHANCE:  Yes.
 
COLLINS:  Matthew Chance, thank you.
 <br>[07:40:00]
 
Up next, we're going to take you live to the Bahamas ahead of former FTX CEO Sam Bankman-Fried's court hearing. He might soon be extradited to the United States. 
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 
LEMON:  All right, here we go on another wild story.
 
Sam Bankman-Fried, the so-called crypto king, expected to appear in a Bahamas court today. CNN has learned the former CEO of FTX is expected to waive extradition after federal prosecutors handed down multiple counts of fraud and conspiracy last week. 
 
CNN's Patrick Oppmann live in the Bahamas for CNN THIS MORNING. Patrick, good morning to you. What are we expecting to learn at this court appearance today?
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning. 
 <br>[07:45:00]
 
The court is right behind me and within hours, we expect Sam Bankman- Fried to come here and give up his fight to stay in the Bahamas -- to essentially fight the U.S.'s efforts to extradite him to face those charges -- charges that could lead to up to 100 years in jail if he were to be convicted. What prosecutors are calling one of the largest frauds in history. 
 
Sam Bankman-Fried, of course, has said that he has committed many mistakes and apparently, wasn't on top of his business operations, and that's what led to more than $1 billion being misallocated or misappropriated. 
 
But when he is brought here by Bahamian authorities from a notorious prison here in Nassau, he is expected, according to the people close to his case, to say that he will leave the Bahamas. He's ready to go to the U.S. to face those charges. 
 
So within hours after that, he could be taken by a U.S. -- by U.S. marshals on a private plane -- a very different kind of private plane than he's used to traveling on -- to the U.S. -- to New York, we assume, where he would be charged and then perhaps in the coming hours or days try to negotiate some kind of arrangement where he could be released on bail. But as of right now, he is in a very tough prison here in Nassau and
 
 he is essentially giving up his efforts to stay in the Bahamas and trying to go home where his legal troubles are only just beginning.
 
LEMON:  And Patrick Oppmann is following this story for us live from the Bahamas. Thank you very much, Patrick.
 
Now this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KENAN THOMPSON, CAST MEMBER, NBC "SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE":  As some of you know, this is Cecily's last day working at Radio Shack after eight incredible years. 
 
CECILY STRONG, CAST MEMBER, NBC "SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE":  Well, I've been here 11.
 
THOMPSON:  I know, and eight of them were incredible. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS:  A surprise announcement just hours before "SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE's" final episode of 2022, as Cecily Strong is saying goodbye. The show says, "Tonight we send off one of the best to ever do it. We will miss you, Cecily."
 
She's exiting amid her 11th season -- one of the longest-tenured female cast members on "SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE" and certainly, one of the funniest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STRONG:  I'm a little emo tonight because truth is, I'm here to say goodbye. I had a lot of fun here and I feel really lucky that I got to have so many of the best moments of my life in this place with these people that I love so much. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS:  Strong is now joining a long list of castmates who left the show in 2022, including Pete Davidson, Kate McKinnon, Aidy Bryant, and Kyle Mooney.
 
My favorite was when she did the girl you wish you hadn't started a conversation with at a party.
 
LEMON:  We've all met someone like that.
 
COLLINS:  I know. It was so good. It was such a good sketch.
 
LEMON:  I think the thing about her is -- I mean, she was this -- obviously, she's a very strong comedic actress and comedian, but her writing capability.
 
COLLINS:  Yes. LEMON:  So that's what really kept her on the show that long because she was such a brilliant writer. And, of course, they always need material and that is -- as you know, writing is everything when you're in the entertainment business and the music business.
 
COLLINS:  Yes.
 
LEMON:  So, Cicely, so long.
 
One of the funniest, too -- comedians, I think, to do the White House correspondents' dinner.
 
COLLINS:  So funny.
 
LEMON:  Yes.
 
COLLINS:  Yes.
 
All right. Ahead, more coverage here on CNN of the January 6 upcoming final public meeting. We'll tell you what we know about criminal referrals that the committee may make as soon as today.
 
LEMON:  And, wait a minute. Who is that person right there? We're going to go to Harry Enten to explain why this morning's number is 87. Maybe it's his age. We'll figure it out.
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER:  (Laughing).
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[07:52:55]
 
LEMON:  Fans in Buenos Aires still celebrating this morning after Argentina beat France on penalty kicks to secure a thrilling World Cup victory in Qatar.
 
Now, you're -- Kaitlan is fancy. Am I supposed to say Lionel?
 
COLLINS:  Lionel Messi. 
 
LEMON:  I say Lionel, she says Lionel (Leenal).
 
Lionel Messi scoring two goals in the final, lifting Argentina to their third World Cup victory and their first since 1986. I want you to listen to the emotional winning goal call from Telemundo broadcaster, Argentine himself, American -- Argentine-American, I should say, Andres Cantor. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDRES CANTOR, TELEMUNDO DEPORTES CHIEF WORLD CUP COMMENTATOR: Goaaaaaaaal. Argentina campeon del mundo! Argentina campeon del mundo! Argentina campeon del mundo!
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) LEMON:  Obviously, very emotional there. After the game, Andres shared an emotional hug with his son Nico, who was also in Qatar broadcasting the game. The victory was a dream come true for the father and for the son. 
 
And there he is. Telemundo Deportes' chief World Cup commentator Andres Cantor joins us now from Doha. We're so happy for you and your son. And I have to say that I am hoarse and out of breath just listening to you. You've waited forever for this moment.
 
CANTOR:  Thank you. I've waited as an Argentine 36 1/2 years for this moment. I tried to be as composed as I could and obviously, I lost it there for a little bit. But it was an epic final. I mean, a rollercoaster of emotions.
 <br>[07:55:00]
 
And I haven't seen a more dominant final in World Cup history for 76 minutes, and then Argentina had like two minutes. France tied the game, and then the rollercoaster of overtime and PKs. It was just too much. 
 
COLLINS:  Yes. I mean, this game was insane. 
 
And you weren't the only one who got emotional. Messi, of course, did too. And this was his life dream and his first -- his last World Cup, he said. It was his last final game and he actually got the World Cup. You saw him kissing it later. 
 
How much does this mean to Messi?
 
CANTOR:  It means everything. He just cemented his legacy in winning his -- a World Cup in his fifth try. This was literally his last dance and it was a fairytale ending that almost got away. France had the winning goal save by Emiliano Martinez in one of the last plays of the match -- an incredible save. And it would have been -- 
 
I mean, sports sometimes is not fair but just to compare it to NFL or NBA, the first 75 minutes it was a blowout. It was like one team being 75 points and the other one only 43 in the NBA. You know, 35-7 in the NFL. That's how dominant Argentina was. And suddenly, in two minutes, they -- you know, France tied the game. 
 
But at the end, Argentina ended up beating the reigning world champions to become champions. So, you can't write any more history than that in Lionel Messi's career with two goals and a great, great World Cup overall.
 
LEMON:  So is it like -- this is a really important question. Is it like tomato-tomoto, potato-pototo, Leenal-Lionel?
 
CANTOR: Ha. It's actually Le-o-nel but they call him Leo, L-E-O. He's referred to as Leo Messi. Nobody calls him neither Leo nor Le-o-nel. He's just plain out Leo. 
 
LEMON:  So then, that's easier for everyone. That's easy to get it right -- Leo. 
 
CANTOR:  That's it. 
 
LEMON:  Hey --
 
CANTOR:  You got it.
 
LEMON:  -- congratulations. We're very happy for you. And congratulations, Argentina and everyone who was involved.
 
Andres Cantor, we're going to miss speaking to you these early mornings.
 
COLLINS:  Yes.
 
LEMON:  Let's hope it happens again next time for the World Cup. Thank you, sir.
 
CANTOR:  Well, we have the summer World Cup -- the Women's FIFA World Cup next summer on Telemundo. So we'll be speaking again, hopefully.
 
COLLINS:  OK, good. It's a date.
 
LEMON:  Thank you.
 
COLLINS:  All right, thanks so much.
 
All right, last night --
 
CANTOR:  Thank you.
 
COLLINS:  -- was the first night of Hanukkah. Sundown marked the start of the Jewish holiday known as the Festival of Lights during which the candles of a menorah are lit over the course of eight nights.
 
CNN's senior data reporter Harry Enten has this morning's number. Harry, what is this number and who does it signify -- or how does it have to do with the first night of Hanukkah?
 
ENTEN:  OK, this morning's number is 87 percent, because that's the percentage of websites that spell Hanukkah H-A-N-U-K-K-A-H.
 
LEMON:  They're wrong. They're wrong.
 
ENTEN:  Now, there's, in fact, a little bit of a controversy on how exactly to spell it. There are -- get this -- 36 different potential spellings of Hanukkah that I tested in 2022. Eighty-seven percent of people now say it's with that double k. Back in 2004, though, it was just 53 percent. 
 
Chanukah, starting with a c -- Chanukah, Chanukah, it was at 29 percent in 2004. Now it's done to just eight percent. This could be, perhaps, because of the influence of the AP Stylebook or maybe multiple dictionaries spelling it that way, but Chanukah with a c has one thing going for it. Limited polling of Jewish Americans show they actually prefer Chanukah with a c. And all the local synagogues that I searched actually do spell it with a c. 
 
Bottom line, it's a transliteration. There is no one way to spell it. 
 
Now, why is Hanukkah a U.S. holiday? Well, it -- this is very unique. It's a very unique holiday for American Jews. It wasn't really celebrated before the 1800s. Then rabbis -- get this -- rabbis in Cincinnati connected a gift with Hanukkah because they wanted to be part -- they wanted American Jews to be, sort of, part of the American holiday season without having to celebrate Christmas.
 
Now, get this. Hanukkah is important to American Jews in more -- in more ways than just that, right? More Jews own a Hanukkah menorah -- 81 percent -- than any other Jewish item polled. It is the rare holiday that about as many Americans as Israeli Jews -- of as many American Jews as Israeli Jews always celebrate by lighting the menorah. 
 
And one last little nugget for you. Who celebrates in the U.S.? It turns out that there are only two percent of Americans who are Jewish, but seven percent of Americans celebrate Hanukkah, indicating there are a bunch of non-Jews celebrating the Festival of Lights -- guys.
 
LEMON:  And that would be -- I would be one of them. And by the way, everybody -- you're all wrong. Hanukkah is spelled with a c -- C-H-A- N-U-K-A-H. That is --
 
ENTEN:  We have it right. My synagogues have it right, Don.
 
LEMON:  I agree. That's how you spell Hanukkah. I'm sorry.
 
ENTEN:  And there you go. Maybe a q next time. I'll put a q in there --
 
LEMON:  Yes.
 
ENTEN:  -- for you.
 
LEMON:  So just real quick before I let you go, because I usually -- I light my menorah every year. I didn't get to because I'm traveling. So tomorrow, I can start, right?
 
ENTEN:  Yes.
 
LEMON:  Tonight, once I get home.
 <br>[08:00:00]