Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: NASA, SpaceX To Launch "Falcon Heavy" For First Time In 3 years; Relentless Drought Pushes Mississippi River To Record Low; Investigators Release More Information regarding Attack on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's Husband Paul Pelosi, Debunking Conspiracy Theories; Former President Barack Obama Campaigns for Democratic Candidates in Upcoming Midterm Elections; New Hampshire Republican Governor Chris Sununu Interviewed on Republicans Condemning Attack on Paul Pelosi. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired November 01, 2022 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  More Republicans need to speak up, otherwise somebody is going to get killed. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR:  That is -- that could be a true statement. We're going to get to that. Good morning, everyone. Don Lemon here. It's not 10:00 at night. It's 8:00 in the morning. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR:  People are checking their watches right now. 
 
LEMON:  And her I am. Poppy Harlow, Kaitlan Collins. It is November 1st, and welcome to CNN THIS MORNING. Third hour. This is -- 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR:  We made it through the stretch hour. 
 
LEMON:  I'm going to start calling this the power hour. 
 
COLLINS:  Power hour. 
 
LEMON:  The seventh thing stretch, so to speak.
 
HARLOW:  We are so glad everybody is with us this morning. I'm glad to be next to you two. 
 
COLLINS:  It is going. It' goes quick, right. It's already 8:00. 
 
LEMON:  No. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
LEMON:  Speak for yourself. I did two hours, and now it's three. But I'm so glad to be here with you guys, because you guys mean, I think we all help each other, make each other better, and we hope we make you better at home. 
 
There is a lot to get to this morning, so welcome to the program. We're going to give you some news now, including these baseless conspiracy theories that are circulating about the attack on Paul Pelosi. We're going to debunk them one by one in a CNN fact check that is coming up shortly. 
 
HARLOW:  Midterm elections, we are one week exactly away, but a lot of votes already cast in early voting. Republican leaders gaining confidence that this is going to cut their way. Republican Governor Chris Sununu of New Hampshire running for reelection, he'll join us this hour to talk about his party's prospects. 
 
COLLINS:  And another big question is what are NASA and SpaceX up to today? The classified mission that is set to be under way very soon. We'll tell you more. 
 
LEMON:  We're going to get to our lead story now. We're going to begin with the spread of misinformation about the attack on Paul Pelosi, the House Speaker's husband. Some of the loudest voices on the Internet have been pushing some of these baseless conspiracy theories to millions of their followers on social media. But new revelations from the San Francisco district attorney put those conspiracy theories to rest. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROOKE JENKINS, SAN FRANCISCO DISTRICT ATTORNEY:  Yes, it appears as though this was based on his statements and comments that were made in that house during his encounter with Mr. Pelosi that this was politically motivated. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON:  So joining us now to separate the fact from the fiction is CNN reporter and fact checker Mr. Daniel Dale. Good morning, Daniel. Thank you. This is a very important story because there are tons of conspiracy theories out there. Please, what did you find in your fact check? 
 
DANIEL DALE, CNN REPORTER:  Don, it's rare you see a conspiracy theory debunked this definitively this fast. The central claim of the conspiracy theory that has been circulated by Elon Musk and others online is that Paul Pelosi had invited the attack into his home, that they had some sort of salacious relationship that went bad. But that is complete fiction, according to local and federal law enforcement, and the official FBI complaint says according to the attacker himself, the FBI says in that document that the attacker himself told police in a recorded interview that he broke into the Pelosi home by breaking a glass door using a hammer, that he surprised Mr. Pelosi, told Mr. Pelosi to wake up. The complaint says Pelosi told 911 and later a police officer he didn't know the man. And here's what San Francisco police chief Bill Scott told CNN yesterday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) CHIEF WILLIAM SCOTT, SAN FRANCISCO POLICE:  There is absolutely no evidence that Mr. Pelosi knew this man. As a matter of fact, the evidence indicates the exact opposite. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  The exact opposite is what he said. Daniel, some rightwing figures including actually elected people in important office, like the lieutenant governor of North Carolina, have been promoting this claim that the attacker was found by police in his underwear. It is not true. Where did that come from? 
 
DALE:  So, Poppy, this came from a report from a local TV station, a FOX affiliate, except that TV station retracted the claim, issued a correction, saying pretty plainly, it's just not true. And if that's not sufficient for people, take a look again at the FBI complaint. It says the cops on scene found a bunch of stuff, including a cell phone and cash in the intruder's shorts pocket. So this man was wearing clothes. 
 
Now, this one may have been based on some vague police language early on, but the FBI complaint makes totally clear there was one hammer. People have been saying there may have been two hammers, they both had hammers going at each other. I don't know. The FBI complaint says the attacker told police he brought a hammer, he used a hammer. At the time the police arrived, Mr. Pelosi had grabbed on to that hammer for obvious defensive reasons, and then he was hit with it. 
 
COLLINS:  And, Daniel, you've seen these efforts to distance this attack from people in the political right. What do we know about David DePape's potential motives? What have the investigators on this case said about that?
 
DALE:  So again, I think we should take it from this man himself. The FBI says in the complaint the attacker himself told police that he broke into the Pelosi home over his animosity toward the Democratic Party, that his aim was to hold Speaker Nancy Pelosi hostage because he viewed her as the leader of a pack of Democratic liars, that he was thinking about breaking her kneecaps as a message to other members of Congress. 
 <br>[08:05:08]
 
We also know that he had been promoting right wing conspiracy theories online. These are allegations from the feds, from local cops. We know that this man has, shall we say, a curious history, dabbling in all sorts of ideas, and it's very possible there are relevant things we don't yet know about the attack, about the man involved. And I'm not saying the word of law enforcement should ever be taken on the gospel unquestioned word. But guys, I think it is very clear, we can say confidently at this point that the conspiracy narrative is bunk, is just garbage. 
 
LEMON:  Conspiracy theories around the world before the truth gets out of bed. 
 
HARLOW:  Dangerous. 
 
LEMON:  Right, yes. Thank you, Daniel Dale, really appreciate that. 
 
DALE:  Thank you.
 
HARLOW:  Nancy Pelosi's Democratic friend and colleague says the escalating rhetoric by some on the right is to blame for many of these dangerous conspiracy theories. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. JACKIE SPEIER, (D-CA):  This is something that has gone -- that is truly out of control. And I don't even know if lowering the rhetoric is enough. It is an incredible cancer that if we don't start holding them accountable for their words, then we're going to see more of this. And it sends shivers up and down my spine. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  That was Democratic Congresswoman Jackie Speier of California. So let's go to our colleague Manu Raju for more on the political fallout. He is on the campaign trail today in Las Vegas. Good morning, Manu. 
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning. Yes, the political fallout among Republicans, you've seen them divided over how to respond here. Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader on the Senate side, was quick to condemn the attack at the Pelosi household, calling it horrifying. But others likened it to other political attacks, other violent attacks against Republicans. Then you have seen some push those baseless conspiracy theories with no fallout whatsoever. 
 
This all comes as Nancy Pelosi, of course, has been absolutely demonized by Republicans for the better part of the past two decades in the Republicans' quest to battle over the House and certainly the fight right now to take back power in the House. But the other big fallout and the big question here among the members themselves and the question that they're confronting is the security situation that they face on the campaign trail and also out in public as we know that only the leadership is the one who will receive the security detail that Nancy Pelosi had, but it does not extend to rank and file members, and it certainly does not extend to family members themselves. 
 
So as we look at how the political landscape may be affected by this, members themselves are assessing their own personal safety. And right now, there is a review among law enforcement agencies within the United States Senate and the House to determine exactly whether to change the security protocol for these members as we are seeing these threats of violence escalate. 
 
HARLOW:  Also, Manu, while we have you, it seems like President Obama is working overtime, although not in office, trying to make sure Democrats hold seats and gain seats. He's back on the campaign trail today where you are in Nevada today. How much of a difference do you think he can make in the final push, the final week? RAJU:  That is really the big question here. There really have not
 
 been that many surrogates, Democratic surrogates on the campaign trail. President Biden, for one, has not been out on the campaign trail. We have seen Barack Obama, really the biggest one here. 
 
And this is such a significant race. Catherine Cortez Masto, the Democratic incumbent, first term senator going against a Republican, the former attorney general Adam Laxalt in a race that poll after poll has shown is essentially a dead heat. Republicans stand a serious chance of picking up this seat. More than $100 million has been spent on the air alone in this state between Labor Day and until now. And what Catherine Cortez Masto told our colleague Ali Zaslav yesterday is that what she hopes is that Barack Obama will help juice Democratic turnout. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALI ZASLAV, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  What do you hope that former president Obama brings tomorrow to help you in your final days in this campaign? 
 
SEN. CATHERINE CORTEZ MASTO, (D-NV):  Listen, we're going to have a number of people coming in to help get out the vote. And they're absolutely welcome. My focus are on Nevadans and getting out and talking to Nevadans and talking about the importance of voting and turning out those voters. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU:  And just looking at the calendar, you see how busy things have been for Barack Obama. He's been in Georgia, Michigan, Wisconsin. He will be in, of course, Nevada, later today, and then Arizona and Pennsylvania. All those key states with those key Senate races, Barack Obama trying to make the difference. 
 
HARLOW:  He seems to be enjoying some of his campaign stops and bringing a lot of -- 
 
LEMON:  He looked fine. You're still fine. 
 
HARLOW:  That happened. That happened. Manu, thank you. That was the clip of the weekend. Thank you, Manu, in Vegas. 
 
COLLINS:  So for more on all of this, we want to bring in New Hampshire's Republican Governor Chris Sununu, who is up for reelection. Governor Sununu, thank you so much for joining us on our first show. I want to start, though, with, I know you've been talking about inflation and how you believe that is such an important factor in how voters in your state are making a decision in this election. 
 <br>[08:10:01]
 
But I want to start with what's happening with House Speaker Pelosi and this attack on her husband. I know you've said that your sympathies are certainly with them. There was this moment, though, last night with the Republican candidate for governor in Arizona, Kari Lake, when she weighed in on what happened to Speaker Pelosi. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARI LAKE, (R) ARIZONA GUBERNATORIAL CANDIDATE:  It is not impossible to protect our kids at school. They act like it is. Nancy Pelosi, well, she's got protection when she's in D.C. Clearly her house doesn't have a lot of protection. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS:  What is your response to not just what Kari Lake said, but also the laughter from the crowd, the moderator? 
 
GOV. CHRIS SUNUNU, (R) NEW HAMPSHIRE:  Yes, look, I would just say anyone who is not taking what happened to Speaker Pelosi and her husband extremely seriously with all the sympathies that it deserves, there's just no place for it. This is serious. 
 
Us as political figures, if you will, candidates, if you will, we're out there. We can talk about issues. We can defend ourselves. Most of our families didn't ask for this. And the political rhetoric, as we know, over the past few years has just been really escalating. Lines have been crossed. New lines have been drawn, inappropriately. And it's scary. It's a very scary thing at a very scary time. 
 
So obviously this isn't an isolated incident, unfortunately. We had the shooting of Steve Scalise. We had Gabby Giffords, we had the assassination attempt on Justice Kavanaugh. These lines are moving on both sides. This isn't just one party or the other. This is a cultural phenomenon that is not good for America. It's one of the bigger crises, I think, we're seeing in that folks think that certain things are appropriate when they really aren't. And we have to take it seriously. 
 
LEMON:  I think you're right that it is escalating. But I think it is unfair to say on both sides. This is not the same on the Democratic side as it is on the Republican side, especially when you consider, you said that it has been escalated over the last couple of years. That has been a direct contribution from the former president. Treating people harshly and his language around violence, and then an attack on the Capitol, the assault on the Capitol, and then encouraging people toward violence. 
 
So, listen, you can say, it is the sort of both sides, but really Republicans aren't speaking out for the most part in a vehement way. You have -- you've got Senator Mitch McConnell, you have Kevin McCarthy who spoke out, but for the most part, silence, very muted from Republicans about what is happening with violence. And Don Jr. tweeting horrific things. Why don't people get in front of the cameras, more Republicans, and say this is awful, this should not happen, this is what Republicans shouldn't be doing, I don't want my party defined by this B.S.? Why doesn't that happen? 
 
SUNUNU:  Well, look, I think -- look, I think you're absolutely right. As leaders, whether you're a governor or president or an elected official in Washington, everyone should be speaking out about the horrific actions of what happened. But again, the Steve Scalise shooting a few years ago, Justice Kavanaugh was almost assassinated outside of his home just a few months ago. So there is danger on both sides. 
 
LEMON:  Governor, I don't disagree with you. But let me tell you the difference here. When it is on the Democratic side and it does happen, people say it is wrong, it should not happen, and they denounce it. Democratic leaders come out and do it immediately. Republicans don't do that. Are they afraid of Don Jr.? Are they afraid of Donald Trump? Are they afraid to come out, they're going to lose votes? I'm being honest. And that is the truth. Go back and look at the evidence. So it is not the same thing. 
 
SUNUNU:  Look -- well, look, I'm here telling you as one of the leaders of the Republican Party, you denounce it wholeheartedly. Of course. And I think lot of folks have. I totally get it. And whatever the issue and the action of the day is, unfortunately this week it happened to Speaker Pelosi and her husband and her family, that's real. And does that mean it is going to stop today? Probably not, unfortunately, right? It is going to potentially continue. And so as a whole, the media, the social media, elected officials, everyone within their community needs to bring that temperature down. 
 
HARLOW:  Governor, thank you again for joining us for this really important conversation this morning. And you're right, you especially mentioned elected officials. We know that this suspect, we know that DePape posted, mentioned many times conspiracy theories, including about the 2020 election. You are supporting, you are going to vote for the Republican nominee for Senate in the state of New Hampshire, Don Bolduc, who keeps denying the results of the 2020 election. He did it again a few weeks ago and said I can't say whether it was stolen or not. He is perpetuating lies that are dangerous, that become these conspiracy theories. How do you square the two? This is a guy who called you a conspiracy theory extremist. Why is he worthy of your vote? 
 
SUNUNU:  Yes, so, look, at the end of the day, obviously, the election was not stolen, and the vast majority of people -- 
 
HARLOW:  He keeps saying it could have been. 
 
SUNUNU:  -- I think the general has acknowledged that.
 
HARLOW:  No, he --  
 
SUNUNU:  So look --  
 
HARLOW:  Three weeks ago came out -- three weeks ago came out and questioned it again. That's all I'm saying. 
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
SUNUNU: Yes. Yes. And what I'm saying is, when it comes down to voting for an individual voters, whether as a -- me or the 1.4 million other people here in the state of New Hampshire, they're going to go cast the vote on a variety of issues. And because we might disagree on what happened in 2020, our folks are focusing on, you know, the the conspiracy theories around the 2020 election.
 
At the end of the day, the vast majority of voters, especially those independent voters that are still haven't made up their mind, they're voting on inflation, they're voting on the cost of goods, they're voting on not being able to make their mortgage or find housing. Those are things that are drastically impacting their family today that have been driven by very bad policies out of Washington, D.C. on the Democrat side.
 
And so, therefore, not just myself, but I think a lot of other folks will be voting for Republicans come November. It's not just a one issue. You can't just say, well, based on that one issue, we vehemently disagree. So therefore, we shouldn't be casting our vote. I don't think anybody should be a one issue voter regardless of the issue.
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: But essentially, you're arguing that what you're hearing from voters in your state is that what they're paying at the supermarket, at the gas station is more important to them. And that's what factoring into their vote. You know, you're supporting Don Bolduc, the Republican, that Poppy, was just mentioning there in this race.
 
If he is elected, are you confident that if he goes to Washington that Republicans are going to have a plan to fix inflation? Because that's kind of been the pushback we've heard from Democrats from the White House, as they say, you know, Republicans keep talking about inflation, but they're not so sure that they have a plan to fix it. Do you think that they do?
 
SUNUNU: Well, one thing I'm really confident of is you send the same people back to Washington, you ain't going to get a different result. Not even close. So the fact that you have folks that want to step up that aren't typical politicians that want to come down, that the general, look, he's a war hero, he served his country. He's worked with issues of mental health at a level unseen in this country. And those are very important issues, and he wants to mix things up, and he's going to go down to Washington and do that.
 
And, again, you can't say that just by electing the same old Democrats, you're going to get a different result. We want different results across this country. And the only way to do that is to bring a different system.
 
COLLINS: Governor Chris Sununu, we love having you on the program. We hope you join us back. We really appreciate you taking time to answer these really important questions from us this morning.
 
SUNUNU: Anytime. Thanks, guys.
 
LEMON: Thank you, Governor, on our maiden voyage. So glad we're glad the governor could join us. He took -- came here and he took the tough questions. So I really appreciate it. COLLINS: And he is up for reelection obviously himself. He's got a big race. Don't forget. It is one week from tonight. We're going to be talking about his race, these other Senate races in New Hampshire. CNN's. special coverage of the midterm elections will start at 4:00 p.m. that afternoon. We will be going on night with the three of us. You'll see us bringing in those results. All night, all morning, all night, all morning.
 
LEMON: Yes, details to come. We'll explain what we mean by that a little bit later.
 
SpaceX though, hoping to recreate the successful launch in just a few hours. This time though, the Falcon Heavy rocket will head to space for another mission for the U.S. Space Force. So joining us now, CNN Space And Defense Correspondent Kristin Fisher.
 
Kristin, good morning. Good to see you. So what can you tell us about this? What's going on? And it's apparently some sort of secret classified mission here?
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: Good morning. Yes, guys. So it's tough to hide a rocket this big launching, right? I mean, everybody up and down the Florida Space Coast is going to see it. It's the most powerful rocket currently in operation today.
 
What is being kept secret, and what is the mystery here is the classified payloads. The things that are inside this rocket. Those are coming from the U.S. military, the U.S. Space Force, this rocket, the Falcon Heavy is going to be launching it into an orbit called geosynchronous orbit, which is much further than low Earth orbit where most satellites are placed.
 
And so, this is a big deal because yes, it's a secret mission for the U.S. Space Force. But it's also just really cool to watch because, guys, this rocket has not launched in since 2019. It's only launched three times before. This will be its fourth launch. And if you are anywhere near the Kennedy Space Center at 9:41 a.m. Eastern time this morning, this is one of those launches that you want to just go outside and look up in the sky because there is nothing else like this flying today.
 
With that said, NASA is trying to launch an even more powerful rocket, a little bit later this month. But what you're going to get with the Falcon Heavy landing, guys, it's not just a rocket launch, you're also going to get two rockets landing. They're going to try to bring two of the boosters back and land them almost simultaneously at Cape Canaveral. So you get a launch, you get two rocket landings and two sonic booms that come with that.
 
The Space Force putting out warnings up and down the Florida coast that if you hear two big booms, don't worry. It's just the (INAUDIBLE). So it's a good launch. You go see if you can.
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
COLLINS: Good hands up. LEMON: Got it puts this -- thank you, Kristin. We appreciate it. Kind of puts into perspective what we do because this is not rocket science but that actually is -- 
 
HARLOW: That actually is.
 
LEMON: -- rocket science.
 <br>[08:20:04]
 
The climate crisis though causing droughts all across America and pushing the Mississippi River to its lowest levels on record. How that will impact your wallet, that's next. Bill Weir, there he is live in my hometown of Baton Rouge, Louisiana coming up after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARLOW: So I saw this firsthand when I was home in Minnesota a few weeks ago. This relentless drought not just across Minnesota, across so much of the heartland pushing the Mississippi River to some of its lowest water levels on record and creating a shipping crisis that's going to affect how much you pay for groceries. Our Chief Climate Correspondent Bill Weir reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): To navigate this river in the old self, a man would stand on the prowl of a steamship and bounce a lead weight on a knotted string off the bottom. If it was a safe 12 feet deep, he'd shout Mark Twain. Samuel Clemens made that his pen name of course. But if you wrote about this river today, Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn would spend a lot of time walking on the beach because in too many places, the not so mighty Mississippi is a fraction of a Twain.
 
PERRY WHITAKER, MISSOURI DIRECTOR, AMERICAN CANOE ASSOCIATION: We're going to look at the field steamboats, steamboat racks.
 <br>[08:25:01]
 
WEIR (on-camera): Mark Twain era steamed boats?
 
WHITAKER: Yes.
 
WEIR (voice-over): And the relentless drought across the heartland is exposing all kinds of memories.
 
WHITAKER: It may have caught on fire or sank 50 miles upstream and floated here during floods.
 
WEIR (on-camera): As far as water levels go, this is this worst you've ever seen?
 
WHITAKER: This is about as low as I've seen it.
 
WEIR (voice-over): From the Missouri down in New Orleans, accidental archaeologists are finding steamboat graveyards and human remains. Civil War ammo and forgotten shipwrecks.
 
(on-camera): And one of the more striking yardsticks is here in Baton Rouge, this is the USS Kidd, a World War II destroyer. And on a good year, the Mississippi comes to that first rust stripe, about 25 feet above my head right now. And these water levels are so low creating such a catastrophic shipping crisis that this is going to affect your grocery bill, is the price of moving. A bushel of soybeans went up 300 percent. And there are thousands of barges full of food. And all they can do is just wait and pray for rain.
 
WEIR (voice-over): And if they can't get rain, they pray for help.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We've got a difficult stretch of river.
 
WEIR (voice-over): From the Army Corps of Engineers with billions of dollars on the line. They cut channels as fast as they can with working antiques, like the Dredge Potter built in 1932, but still a workhorse and an endless fight with the river in every kind of weather.
 
(on-camera): You're a professional riverbed redecorated.
 
ZACK BREMER, DREDGE INSPECTOR, ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS: Kind of. Yes. Yes.
 
WEIR (on-camera): Move this over here.
 
BREMER: That's right.
 
WEIR (on-camera): Or that over there.
 
BREMER: As long as we can keep barges moving and keep commodity prices down, we're all in good shape.
 
WEIR (on-camera): That's your mission. It's impressive to see up front.
 
And do you know the Ole Miss better than most? You've been doing this a while.
 
ANDY SCHIMPF, RIVER PROJECT OPERATIONS MANAGER, ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS: 34 years.
 
WEIR (on-camera): And how would you characterize what's going on these days?
 
SCHIMPF: It is a concern, a heightened concern. I don't know that I would call it a panic yet. But we are watching the water levels very closely on an almost an hourly basis.
 
WEIR (on-camera): Is it the kind of thing where if this goes on, you can dredge around the problem? To a point?
 
SCHIMPF: In 1989, and then again in 2012, we got to an area where the -- to a level where the channel was almost unsustainable. We had numerous dredges working, and there was very little commerce going through and ultimately what saved the day was rain.
 
WEIR (voice-over): And these days, when you wish for rain, you have to specify not all at once. The Midwest is still recovering from summer flash floods. And if the water cycle whiplash is again, hard rain on parched earth would be another blow to farmers, already struggling to move their harvest.
 
Fewer and lighter barges on the river means more expensive trains and trucks putting more planet cooking pollution into our system, which scientists continue to warn while they make droughts and floods and the related crises more extreme. And on a connected planet where one in eight humans eat something that was moved down the Mississippi was, hardy souls on the Dredge Potter are going to need a lot more help.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WEIR: Normally, they dredge until December, they're going to go to February this year. And Don, I don't know if you remember in your years here I had some locals tell me, they remember times when they could stand under the USS Kidd, but they never remember it being this extreme, this low for this long.
 
And you can see here on the banks, the big pier and dock here in Baton Rouge that takes folks from the paddle wheels and ferries into the convention center is completely worthless right now. You couldn't even use this. And so again, the water will come back on the Mississippi it always does. The question is when, when and how much of this vital commerce will be choke points, guys.
 
LEMON: I got to tell you, it is jarring especially for me to watch this, Bill, because I know exactly where you are. You used to be the central Plex, now it's a convention center and then the old state capitol is there. I remember when that USS Kidd was, I think, they put it in -- there's a memorial there or what have you. I think it was back in the 80s, like 1982.
 
And I remember going there as a kid -- 
 
WEIR: Right.
 
LEMON: -- and watching it. And just behind you on the other side of the river, that is my hometown. Freight across that river that you're looking at. I've never ever seen the river this low in my entire -- 
 
WEIR: You wouldn't recognize.
 
LEMON: -- you know, the years, I won't say, on this planet. It is -- 
 
COLLINS: That's going to be where (INAUDIBLE).
 
LEMON: -- shocking., shocking. Yes.
 
WEIR: It really is. And the really shocking thing is it could get lower between now and Thanksgiving.
 
HARLOW: Wow. WEIR: So again, I can't put it up. We got guys on 1932 dredges trying to keep up with this river. And this is the beginning of a climate crisis where we have to rethink coastal infrastructure for sea level -- 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
WEIR: -- and now inland infrastructure for droughts like this -- 
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
WEIR: Got to talk about this more guys.
 <br>[08:30:00]