Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Two Oath Keepers Convicted of Seditious Conspiracy; Four Rail Unions Reject Agreement, Seek Paid Sick Time; U.S. Severe Weather Threats; U.S. Advances to World Cup Knockout Round. Aired 4:00-4:30a ET

Aired November 30, 2022 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Bianca Nobilo live from London. Max Foster is off on assignment. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's an historic moment for the country to have a jury find a leader of a militia group in the United States guilty of trying to use violence to interfere with the peaceful transfer of power. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Even if you weren't on the Capitol that day, you ought to be scared because you could be convicted of a crime. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The winds started hitting. We tried to get -- got to a safe place as fast as possible. 
 
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST: And severe storms across these Southern United States sparking an active pattern here, even some tornadoes to be had. We'll talk about the latest threat coming up in a couple of minutes. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: U.S. 1, Iran 0. Games over.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo. 
 
NOBILO: It's Wednesday, November 30th. 9 a.m. here in London, 4 a.m. in Washington. We begin with big developments in the investigation into the U.S. Capitol riot and the former Donald Trump's efforts to overturn the 2020 election. They include a major win for the U.S. Justice Department's criminal trial into the attack. 
 
First, the South Carolina Supreme Court is ordering former Trump White House Chief Of Staff Mark Meadows to testify before a special grand jury looking into Trump's efforts to overturn the 2020 election in Georgia. And we're learning that top Trump adviser Stephen Miller has testified to a federal grand jury as part of the probe into the Capitol riot. 
 
This all comes as a jury in Washington convicted the leader of the Oath Keepers and his associates of seditious conspiracy for their roles into the insurrection. CNN's Sara Sidner has the very latest. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR U.S. CORRESPONDENT: It really can't be overstated just how significant and important of a case this is. This is perhaps the highest profile trial in connection with the January 6th attack on the Capitol. 
 
It involved five people, all of them accused of seditious conspiracy. Four of them members of the far right militia group, Oath Keepers. One of those people the founder of the Oath Keepers Stewart Rhoades and one associate of the group. 
 
Basically, prosecutors said these people tried to forcibly stop the peaceful transfer of presidential power on January 6th and the world saw some of their activities live on television as you saw this stack of people who were dressed in military garb combat gear going up the steps of the Capitol. Some of them going into the Capitol and then some of them taking video of themselves inside the Capitol saying words like, we stormed the Capitol. That is what one of the defendants, Jessica Watkins said, on social media. 
 
In the end the jury decided that two people were guilty of seditious conspiracy and those two people are the founder of the far right militia group the Oath Keepers, Stewart Rhoades and one of his top lieutenants Kelly Meggs. The other three were found not guilty in this case. 
 
They also faced several other charges, up to 10 total charges, and one of the other charges was about obstructing the sort of official proceedings and several people were found guilty of that. In the end though, all of them were found guilty of obstructing an official proceeding, which means that they could all face up to 20 years in federal prison on that charge alone. 
 
But for Stewart Rhoades, he was convicted of several things including the most serious charge seditious conspiracy which also brings a 20 year prison sentence potentially. That's the maximum. 
 
What we did hear from the defense attorneys in this case, they came out and they talked about some of their disappointment, but there was some good things. It was a hodgepodge. Not everybody was found guilty of everything, so they had some wins. But they did something that was particularly interesting. They talked about the judge in this case. Judge Amit Mehta is a federal judge who was appointed by President Obama. They could not have enough nice things to say about this judge. 
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
The defense in this case praised this judge. They said it was a well- run courtroom. And so, you really in the end, perhaps that will help tamp down the conspiracy theorists who will certainly try and tear this case apart. The jury was very deliberate. They did not convict everyone of everything. They went through each case one by one and each defendant had their own case, they had their own defense that was slightly different from the other one. The entire defense was there was no plan so there could not be a conspiracy to stop the peaceful transfer of power. And the jury found that indeed there was a plan and that Stewart Rhoades and Kelly Meggs were conspiring together in that plan. 
 
So, you're seeing a hodgepodge, a decision that's a bit of a hodgepodge but for the government they have won a very, very important part of this case. And for the defense, they've been able to have some wins of their own. The reason why this case is so significant isn't just because of the very rare charge of seditious conspiracy, it's also because of what is going to happen in the future. There is another case, the case of the Proud Boys where that leadership faces the same charge. And so, it will be interesting to see how this plays out in the weeks and months to come with that case which is upcoming. 
 
Sara Sidner, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NOBILO: FBI Director Christopher Wray praised the Oath Keepers verdict. Saying breaking the law in the attempt to undermine the function of American democracy will not be tolerated. We asked our CNN legal analysts to weigh in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELLIOTT WILLIAMS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Frankly, the other defendants ought to be thanking their lucky stars today that they were not convicted based on the level of, frankly, intimacy and communication in the planning this offense. So, yes, even if you weren't on the Capitol that day, you ought to be scared because you could be convicted of a crime. 
 
ANDREW MCCABE, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: It's a very big deal strategically for the cases that will follow because the convictions on seditious conspiracy with the long sentences that come with them could actually motivate some of these folks like you look at Kelly Meggs, for example, who by my counts was found guilty of all the charges he faced, you know, he will have a great incentive now to potentially cooperate in some of the other cases like the Proud Boys case or other Oath Keepers case that's coming down the road. So, this is going to have far, you know, consequences far beyond today.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NOBILO: All eyes are on the U.S. stock futures right now ahead of a big day on Wall Street with the Federal Reserve chief set to speak in a few hours' time and things are looking up. The markets reacting already to two major economic headlines. Wall Street trying to gauge insights into for Fed Chair Jerome Powell's comments later today on the U.S. economic outlook and the central bank's thinking on future rate increases. What Powell says could set the tone for the markets for the rest of this year. 
 
We're also watching Capitol Hill. The U.S.'s House is expected to take up legislation to avert a looming nationwide freight rail strike. Then it will be the Senate's turn to get the bill to President Biden's desk. Businesses are scrambling to limit the damage if a rail strike were to happen. Retailers across the sectors are finding work around for shipping and warehouse usage. CNN's Matt Egan explains the headache this is causing for everyone, including President Biden. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Bianca, there is a growing push in Washington to avoid a rail strike that would cause chaos to the economy. President Joe Biden says that he is confidence that a strike can be averted. He's calling on Congress to pass legislation to adopt the tentative agreement that was reached back in September. 
 
Now that deal hailed by Biden at the time is a win for thousands of rail workers. It calls for generous pay hikes, bonuses and a promise not to increase health care co-pays and deductibles. But rank-and-file members and four unions voted that agreement down. Key sticking points include a lack of paid sick time and work scheduling rules that keep many workers on call seven days a week even when they aren't working. Now if no bill is reached, rail workers could go on strike as soon as December 9th dealing a devastating blow to an economy that relies on freight rail trains to move goods around the country. 
 
A rail strike is one of the most disruptive and expensive things that could happen to the economy. How expensive? The Anderson Economic Group warns that a strike could cost the economy $1 billion in the first week alone due to lost wages and loss production. Economists warn of price spikes and supply crutches for everything from food and fuel to new cars and trucks. 
 
That is why Biden, one of the most pro union presidents in recent history is throwing his weight behind Congressional intervention. But that has left Biden in an unusual position where he's being praised by business groups and attacked by some in the labor movement. 
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
Union leaders are unhappy about Biden's intervention and some rank and file members are outright angry. The rail Workers United, a caucus of union activists that are against the tentative labor deal, they blasted the president in a statement saying, quote, Joe Biden blew it. Sadly, he could not bring himself to advocate for a lousy handful of sick days. 
 
Now the question is whether lawmakers in Congress could reach a deal before the looming strike starts disrupting the economy. The clock is ticking -- Bianca. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Thanks, Matt. The CEO of Bank of America says that he's preparing for a recession
 
 next year but expects it to be mild. Brian Moynihan tell CNN that the housing market is in for some pain but right now American shoppers are keeping the economy afloat. 
 
Meanwhile, the conference board reports that consumer confidence is at the lowest level since July. But people are spending money despite inflation, in part because the labor market does remain strong. The U.S. government is taking new action in the housing market amid the nationwide affordability crisis. Mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will raise the limits of government-backed loans to a record level of 2023. The Federal House Financing Agency announced that move on Tuesday. And this means the baseline performing loan limit for 2023 will be more than $726,000. And higher cost areas will have a new loan limit of more than $1 million. However, one trade group argues the higher loan limits will make the affordability crisis worse. 
 
In a landmark vote the U.S. Senate has said yes to codify same-sex marriage into federal law. The vote was 61 to 36 with 12 Republicans joining with Democrats to support it. The Respect for Marriage Act would ensure protection for gay and interracial couples by requiring states to recognize the marriages across state lines. However, it still needs to pass the House before heading to President Biden's desk for that signature. 
 
A tornado watch has been issued for parts of Alabama and Mississippi in the Southern U.S. Severe storms moving across the lower Mississippi Valley have produced at least 20 tornado reports so far. 
 
A woman in Alabama captured this video Tuesday of debris flying through the air. And in Monroe County, Mississippi, this bridge washed out a short time ago as heavy storms were moving through the area. 
 
So, let's bring in meteorologist Pedram Javaheri at the CNN Weather Center in Atlanta for this. This weather looks alarming, Pedram. What more can you tell us? 
 
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST: As you've noted, we've seen 20 plus reports of tornado. The severe weather that we were forecasting here certainly are beginning to really ramp up across portions the southern area of Mississippi into western areas of Alabama. Still see some activities, still see some tornado warnings. Meaning conditions are favorable here for tornadoes over the next few hours here. Tornadoes eminent or occurring across areas even as far as areas around Montgomery, Alabama. 
 
But notice this, 21 reports and the latest observations here for tornado reports across areas of the southern and southeastern U.S. and we do expect the tornado watches to expire at early as 7 a.m. Central time, so 7 a.m. Eastern time. The system has already produced large hail. Forecasts for significant hail and two inches in diameter. That is golf ball size hail that has been associated with some of the storms. 
 
And I just wanted to show you the intensity of the storms here as well. Because I always like to look at the lightning data. Upwards of 66,000 lightning strikes in a span of 12 hours here. So, even if you did not see widespread coverage of tornadoes across portions of the southern United States, this just speaks to what a violent night of storms it's been across areas of the south here as the system migrates off towards the east. 
 
And another area to show you the sense and scale of this front and just the ferocity of it as well, is the temperatures in Dallas, Texas, 38 degrees. South of it into Houston up into the 70s. And of course, the 70s widespread are little farther east of this region. So, the cold front certainly on the move. And we are going to see these thunderstorms here blossom over the next couple of hours before we see conditions will begin to quiet down as the sunrises and eventually into the afternoon hours there of Wednesday. 
 
But rainfall amounts pretty impressive, two to four inches. Some areas as much as 6 inches have been observed. Flood watches and flood warnings in effect across some of these areas as well, meaning flooding is imminent or occurring across portions of Mississippi into Alabama. 
 
But on the back side of this the front will quickly push off towards the Carolinas by later this afternoon. The heavy rainfall quickly moves through the Carolinas and when we get into the evening hours it is almost entirely out of here and that is about it for this particular storm system. 
 
And November ends we think with at least 90 or so reports of tornadoes. And that's about 150 percent of normal for this time of year to get that many severe weather reports and that many tornado reports. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
And notice, there is still a slight risk in place there across parts of the panhandle, Florida, Bianca, parts of southern and southwestern Georgia as well for damaging winds and a few more tornadoes before it's all said and done. So, an active morning still in place for at least a few more hours. 
 
NOBILO: Pedram Javaheri, thank you so much. 
 
JAVAHERI: Thank you. 
 
NOBILO: Still ahead this hour, lava from Hawaii's Mauna Loa volcano creeps closer to major roadways. How the state's biggest island is dealing with the eruption.
 
Plus, growing questions about Senate candidate Herschel Walker's residency. He says he lives in Georgia. So, why is he getting a tax break in Texas on a home he intended as a primary residence. 
 
And just ahead, a big win for team USA as they live to compete another day on football's biggest stage. 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yes, the team have certainly been enjoyed booking their place in the last 16 for the first time since 2014. But big concerns about the sickness of captain America ahead of their next one against the Netherlands. I'm Amanda Davis live in Doha with all the latest in just a couple of minutes. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
NOBILO: You're looking at New York's Empire State Building lit up in red, white and blue to celebrate the U.S. men's soccer team and its World Cup victory against Iran on Tuesday. The U.S. national team the celebrating didn't stop at the stadium after their victory over Iran. A group of fans brought the party to them as they arrived in their hotel lobby in Qatar. 
 
After the game the U.S. team took to Twitter to thank fans all over the world saying they felt all the love and unwavering support. 
 
The U.S. team's winning goal came from Christian Pulisic after hurting his pelvis after colliding with an Iranian. His condition is listed as day to day. 
 
Meanwhile, Americans aren't the only one celebrating the U.S. victory. Some people in Iran actually cheered on the American team. The match was overshadowed by antigovernment protests in Iran and the ruling theocracies deadly crackdown on them. And there are those, especially in Kurdish areas, rooting for the government back team to lose. So, let's get more now from our correspondence. CNN's Nada Bashir is here in London. But first let's go to Amanda Davies who's at the center of action in Doha. So, Amanda, take us through this huge win for the United States. How did it unfold? 
 
DAVIES: Yes, good morning, Bianca. Well, it means everything has been the message from the U.S. men's soccer team after that victory. And if that video of the of them arriving back to the team hotel is anything to go by, they've certainly been enjoying their moment and deservedly so after booking their place into the round of 16 at the World Cup for the first time since Brazil 2014. 
 
The mood on the U.S. side at least in such sharp contrast to that tense political pre-match buildup that we saw framed with such a history, the stakes so high for both sides in terms of on and off the pitch. And you've got such a sense as both sides walked out of the Al Thumama Stadium into that cauldron of noise, just what it meant to them. 
 
The majority of Iranian fans roaring their side on desperately hoping they would create a moment of history in the midst of all the political unrest at home by booking their place in the knockout stage of the World Cup for the first time ever. 
 
From the U.S. perspective, there was a big question mark, really, about how this young, untested World Cup squad would deal with such a political pressurized moment, but they were calm, they were composed. They absolutely stepped up when they needed to. Ultimately with that goal from captain America, Christian Pulisic making the difference for Gregg Berhalter. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GREGG BERHALTER, U.S. MEN'S TEAM COACH: Great first half and, you know, and then the end of the game is really what I'm most proud of because it's the mark of determination and extreme amount of effort and resiliency to hang in there and get the win, not buckle. You know, that's the first time in 92 years that we've gotten two shutouts in a World Cup so the boys are doing something right. Really proud of the group. 
 
CARLOS QUEIROZ, IRAN COACH: Second off, we create opportunities within squad and we are punished with the result. I think it's fair to say that we should score in the second half and the draw was the result -- the right result of this game but in football that team of fair doesn't exist, that player doesn't play. The reality is this. Congratulations to U.S.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
DAVIES: Well, rightly questions now being asked about what that tournament exit means for Iran's players and their families. Queiroz reflecting on those reports we were talking about yesterday, the pre- match threats to the players from the U.S. perspective as you mentioned. The big question now looking ahead to their game on Saturday against the Netherlands, what will be the fitness status of captain Christian Pulisic. He said he's going to be ready and raring to go. The team though, being a little bit more cautious saying they are taking it day by day. 
 
NOBILO: Fingers crossed. So, Nada, we played our viewers some quite incredible footage of Iranian fans supporting the U.S. victory. Tell us about the reaction from Iran. 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, this certainly isn't the first place you'd expect support for the USA national team. Politically, of course, the two nations have been at odds for more than four decades. 
 <br>[04:25:02]
 
The two squads have been keen to focus on the sport. Despite that we've now seen celebrations, pretty remarkable scenes across Iran, video coming in from the capital Tehran, showing people in the streets cheering, honking their horns, chanting in support of the U.S. team. And including, of course, at the city's Kurdish region which has felt the full weight of the regime's brutal and deadly crackdown on acts of dissent and anti-regime protests. And of course, many are now feeling the sentiment as a sign of sort of opposition to the regime. 
 
The team, of course, a very public facing symbol of the nation, one that has come to represent and be a big proponent really of the regime. The regime trying to use this as a public image. And of course, it isn't the players themselves from the Iranian team that the Iranian people are against necessarily, it is the symbol itself. We do understand, of course, according to a source, that the players and their families have these threats at the hand of the regime, according to this source. Family members being told that they could face violence, torture, even imprisonment should the team members show any signs of protest against the regime. But as we see there, pretty remarkable scenes of celebration for the support of the U.S. team as opposed to Iran. 
 
NOBILO: Absolutely. Nada Bashir thank you so much and are thanks to Amanda Davies too. 
 
Hawaii's government is on alert as the largest volcano continues to erupt. I'll speak with an expert about the potential risks to the big island. Plus, this -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: All right, well, you can hear the incoming rounds, the incoming rounds from Russian artillery fire are really intensive here as we have entered the outskirts of Bakhmut. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: We'll take you to the front lines of the fighting in Ukraine as Russian and Ukrainian forces battle for control of a critical city.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:30:00]