Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Week-Long National Mourning Underway in South Korea; Lula Da Silva wins Razor-thin Victory over Bolsonaro; Survey Shows the Economy is a Top Concern for Brazilians; Musk: Twitter is Revamping Verification Process; Activists: Government Forces and Students Clash at Universities; Mars: Halloween us like Christmas & Super Bowl Combined. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired October 31, 2022 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST, FIRST MOVE: A warm welcome to "First Move", as always and good to have you with us this Monday. And unfortunately it's a 
 
 somber start to the week as we monitor the rising death toll in one of South Korea's worst ever disasters. A crowd surge that resulted in more 
 
 than 150 people killed and more than 130 injured.
 
Most of them young people out celebrating in a Halloween street festival a week long period of mourning has begun across the country. And we will have 
 
 the very latest on that.
 
We'll also take you to Brazil too and the historic political comeback for President-elect Lula da Silva. Lula winning what can only be called a photo 
 
 finish victory against incumbent Jair Bolsonaro, who is yet to concede defeat all say that he respects the election results.
 
We've got excellent analysis ahead from Alberto Ramos, the Head of Latin American Economic Research at Goldman Sachs. And for now Brazil not the 
 
 only focus is Eurozone inflation hit record highs this month. Plus, as you can see in front of U.S. stock market futures are weaker with Big Tech 
 
 names set to extend last week's losses.
 
The picture outside of tech land however looking a bit brighter the DOW soaring almost 6 percent last week and on track for its best monthly gains 
 
 since the mid-70s look at that downdraft though in September.
 
Also today fresh losses in China's stock markets the HANG SENG dropping more than 1 percent down 14 percent in fact, for all of October too its 
 
 biggest monthly loss in well over a decade the catalyst today Chinese factory activity contracting this month due to ongoing COVID curbs despite 
 
 hopes for more resilience.
 
And for now we're going to stay in Asia and the latest on the unfathomable disaster in South Korea. Ivan Watson joins us now from Seoul. Ivan, it's 
 
 tough to find words to describe what happened here. What more do we know? And where are the authorities that should have been doing some kind of 
 
 crowd control surely?
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, they were not doing a lot of that there were a lot of people here partying in this 
 
 neighborhood, this nightlife district of Seoul. The government has declared a week of national mourning. And you can see how people have been paying 
 
 their respects here at this makeshift memorial just steps away from where the terrible tragedy took place.
 
About 48 hours ago, really Saturday night it was a party night here in Seoul at one district, where you have these kinds of narrow alleyways. And 
 
 roads lined with bars and clubs, lots of young people thousands of them some in costume out for a night out drinking.
 
And I've spoken with some of the survivors who say that the crowds were getting uncomfortably packed in cheek to jowl, just around the corner from 
 
 where I'm standing right now. They were joking about how crowded it was initially. And then it started getting increasingly scary. And I spoke to 
 
 two young French exchange students one of whom said she passed out twice in the crowd surge that took place there. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALICE SANNIER, SURVIVOR: There were like so many people who are like, pushing us. And like, we can't breathe at home for a moment.
 
ANNE-LOU CHEVALIER, SURVIVOR: At some point. I have no air and we were so crushed to other people that I couldn't breathe at all. So I just pass out.
 
WATSON (on camera): Unconscious?
 
CHEVALIER: Yes, unconscious.
 
WATSON (on camera): Do you know that people were dying near where you were standing?
 
CHEVALIER: No, no, no.
 
SANNIER: Like, we're just there, and we're just trying to save our life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WATSON: The Korean authorities say this was an unprecedented gathering that they don't have a guidebook or a manual for a gathering like this without a 
 
 single organizer like say a concert or a sports event. They say they had more Police than in past years during the Halloween weekend. But their 
 
 primary goal was drug enforcement and preventing sexual abuse and assault. They clearly didn't have enough people to manage the thousands of young 
 
 people among the youngest victims of the 154 dead middle school students, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: It's a heartbreaking tragedy for all involved. Ivan Watson, thank you so much for that. OK to India now and a desperate search for 
 
 survivors underway after a century or bridge collapsed.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: At least 130 people including many children died when the cable suspension bridge gave way. Kristie Lu stout has all the details.
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The death toll continues to climb in India. After a recently renovated suspension bridge collapsed in the 
 
 Western Indian state of Gujarat on Sunday, killing scores of people, including children authorities say 200 people were on the bridge at the 
 
 time of the collapse that took place 6:30 pm local time in the town of Morbi.
 
And the video which is circulated widely on social media is disturbing to watch. You see dozens of people clinging too and climbing up the twisted 
 
 remains at the bridge to escape the water below, as some are clambering up to try to make it to safety. Others managed to swim to shore and 
 
 tragically, a number of children are among the victims.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Many children were enjoying holidays for Diwali and they came here as tourists all of them fell on top of one another. The bridge 
 
 collapsed due to overloading.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STOUT: On Monday search and recovery teams combed the river to find the missing of the bridge was a popular tourist destination built during 
 
 British rule in the 19th century. It had been closed for renovations and was only recently reopened to the public. Gujarat has lodged a criminal 
 
 complaint against the agency that maintained the bridge.
 
And a special investigation team is looking into why the bridge collapsed. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is in his home state of Gujarat 
 
 for a three-day visit said he was deeply saddened by the tragedy. He also announced compensation for the injured as well as for the families of the 
 
 victims. Kristie Lu Stout, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
CHATTERLEY: To the war in Ukraine now and its impact around the world. Ukraine sees around a dozen vessels have left Ukrainian ports today despite 
 
 Russia's suspending a major grain deal over the weekend.
 
An agreement to move the vessels was made by delegations from the U.N., Ukraine and Turkey. Moscow once again being accused of weaponizing food as 
 
 its withdrawal from the grain deal leaving hundreds of other ships potentially blocked. Turkey's President says it will keep moving forward 
 
 with what he calls serving humanity.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, TURKISH PRESIDENT: Even if Russia is hesitant about this, because they are not given the same opportunities, we will continue 
 
 our efforts with the termination for the service of humanity.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Nic Robertson is in Kyiv for us now. Nic, I'm assuming now desperate talks behind the scenes to try and hold Russia in this deal. Can 
 
 you also provide some context on some of the points that Vladimir Putin has made that his concern is that not enough of this foodstuff which is clearly 
 
 far more highly priced than it was pre-invasion is not getting to the poor nations that require it?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, Putin has been making that point because he wants to emphasize this is not as advertised 
 
 that this food aid this, you know, food is going out to third world countries. Of course, that misleads anyone who's listening to end. Because 
 
 of course, it is a shortage of food that is getting out of Ukraine that causes the global food prices to go up, which puts further pressure on 
 
 those particular third world countries.
 
And it is today that the U.N. is trying to get 12 ships out, waiting to see what Russia's reaction to that is. And one of those ships is, is on its way 
 
 to Ethiopia. But I want to bring you more into the situation here in Kyiv where there have been air strikes on electricity stations today. The mayor 
 
 says 80 percent of the city's water has been cut off.
 
So the city has opened up the standpipes here for people to come out and get their water. So you have many city residents now. The mayor says 
 
 they're working to get the water back on again, over the coming days.
 
But the majority of the city's residents now they have to get their water from dozens upon dozens of these standpipes that are in and around the 
 
 city. And this is of course really, I'm sorry, sir, really impacting people's lives. 355,000 homes in the Capitol today are without electricity, 
 
 a power generating facility, a hydropower station on the outskirts of the city here targeted.
 
The government says in 10 different regions, 18 critical facilities targeted today. And the city's ability to cope with the country's ability 
 
 to cope is now more precarious than it was before. We've had power; we've had hits on the power system here over the past few weeks.
 
But it is now that it's beginning to have that significant impact to cut off water supplies and as you can see here, people literally for their 
 
 drinks for dinner tonight or how they're ever going to cook their food this evening.
 
They have to come and get their water out in the street. And this is unusual here. This has not been the case since the very beginning of the 
 
 war.
 
CHATTERLEY: When these two things clearly tied and there is an irony there that President Putin is suggesting that pulling out of this grain deal is 
 
 to do with.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: What he said were Ukrainian attacks on locations in Crimea. Yet at the same time, as you're pointing out, once again, overnight attacks on 
 
 locations in Kyiv. And beyond that are targeting critical infrastructure like utility services. Nic, do we have any sense of how long people are 
 
 going to have to be going to these pipes in the street in order to be able to get fresh water rather than actually be able to have services in their 
 
 homes?
 
ROBERTSON: You know I think that's a question everyone here would like to have answered. You know, I've spoken to a few people here and one man told 
 
 me look, you know, we are expecting this; we're ready to put up with it. The mayor here says that he anticipates things should improve in the coming 
 
 weeks.
 
But the only person that really has the answer to that question is President Putin and the Kremlin. Because it's his military, that's bombing 
 
 the infrastructure here that's cutting off the water supplies as damaging the electricity supplies around the country hitting the heating stations. 
 
 So you know why the residents here say they're ready to put up with us and go on with it.
 
Russia has got to the point and its attack of the critical infrastructure here. That it is the system is in a very poor state of repair. So it 
 
 doesn't take much to tip it out of balance and turn off the water for hundreds of thousands of people. So the Kremlin really has the answer on 
 
 that question I believe.
 
CHATTERLEY: We'll keep out skate. Nic Robertson, thank you so much for being there and sharing that with us. OK, straight ahead, Lula da Silva's 
 
 stunning political comeback in Brazil and what it means for the country's economy. Plus, the Twitter terminal is hovering over with its new Chief 
 
 Twit in charge the details on that next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move", the vote may be over but deep divisions remain after this weekend's Presidential election run off in 
 
 Brazil. Jair Bolsonaro yet to concede defeat after losing his reelection bid to Lula da Silva by the thinnest of margins Paula Newton joins us now 
 
 from Sao Paulo.
 
Paula, great to have you with us! You were saying that this was potential when you were talking to us last week and it's exactly what we got a win 
 
 but by the narrowest of margins. Do we expect Bolsonaro to come out and concede defeat?
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You know at this point that is what everyone in this country is waiting to see.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
NEWTON: And that includes both, you know, his detractors and his allies. Think about it Julia, we are more than 12 hours out. So when electoral 
 
 officials call this election for Lula da Silva, and more than that said that look, these elections were peaceful.
 
And that there was no reason that they result of this election should be challenged in any way in the meantime, right Lula that is absolutely a 
 
 comeback for the history books. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON (voice over): Supporters party like it was 2003. The last time Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva was swept into power and promise to transform Brazil 
 
 for a new century. He is now pledging to do it again. These women just babies when Lula was first elected him now as their political savior.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So, so, so happy. We couldn't take any more Bolsonaro we can dream again.
 
NEWTON (voice over): Lula cemented an improbable political comeback destined now for the history books. He walked out of prison less than three 
 
 years ago, appealing corruption convictions. After they were thrown out, he mounted a campaign to defeat conservative populace Jair Bolsonaro.
 
LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA, BRAZILIAN PRESIDENT-ELECT: I consider myself a person who's been resurrected in Brazilian politics, because they tried to 
 
 bury me alive. And I'm here.
 
NEWTON (voice over): I'm gratified Lula pledged Brazil is back for its citizens and the world.
 
SILVA: From January 1, 2023, I will govern for 215 million Brazilians and not just those who voted for me. They are not to Brazil's we all one 
 
 country, one people, one great nation.
 
NEWTON (voice over): Lula supporters flooded the streets of Sao Paulo relishing a fresh start.
 
NEWTON (on camera): --this victory, - this country now will be difficult and quite a challenge for Lula as he also considers as a very determined 
 
 opposition.
 
NEWTON (voice over): Bolsonaro did not formally concede on election night. The last time Brazilians saw their President because when he voted. But 
 
 even the head of Brazil's Congress, a Bolsonaro ally, allowed Lula supporters their victory, saying Congress accepted the outcome. This Lula 
 
 supporter says the war in her words, the culture war, the Bolsonaro leaned into is not over.
 
AYLA RAMALHO, SUPPORTER OF LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (ph): Look at the amount of votes this man had. Even after everything he's done almost half 
 
 of the votes. The difference was really small.
 
NEWTON (voice over): This is losing victory, but no longer Lula's Brazil. Years of division and political acrimony have taken their toll blindsiding 
 
 this democracy. And it could yet challenge this President like never before.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: What is so interesting here as well, is what Lula is promising to do economically, right? It has been absolutely stagnant here for almost a 
 
 decade Brazil 10th largest economy. I don't have to remind you, Julia.
 
Given its wealth and energy in minute minerals in the agriculture business here you know, balanced against the urgency of the climate crisis here. All 
 
 eyes will be on Lula and what he can manage here in the next few months, under such circumstances, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean, it's going to be in many ways fascinating to watch because they are diametrically opposed politically. It's just what in terms 
 
 of policy actually he can achieve here. It was quite interesting to listen to the people that you spoke to there.
 
Because they were clearly Lula supporters and particularly for the young people some great excitement and saying that we couldn't take any more of 
 
 Shabbat scenario. Paula, I just wondered if you've spoken to any Bolsonaro supporters and what they said about accepting Lula and Lula's rule going 
 
 forward.
 
NEWTON: Yes absolutely, and I'd like to put them into two categories the Bolsonaro supporters and those who believing him. And the brute that the 
 
 road that he was taking Brazil on, they are angry, and they want these results to be looked at again.
 
And they are some of them, in some cases, even calling for more drastic measures. That's why every hour that goes by that we do not hear from 
 
 Bolsonaro. In that vacuum, unfortunately, it is a dangerous moment here in Brazil, and so people are watching and waiting.
 
Having said that, his allies, his political and business allies have already come forward and saying that they accept this. And crucially, that 
 
 includes a lot of local government's Congress senators saying we are prepared to work with Lula. We accept these results and we will go forward 
 
 to basically - in Brazil when it's so badly needed. But needless to say, this will be an interesting few hours.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
NEWTON: Now ahead for Brazil everyone watching to see, what Bolsonaro's next move will be?
 
CHATTERLEY: Way continues Paula Newton thank you so much for that. Lula's win, as Paula was saying comes as Brazil's economy recovers from its worst 
 
 recession ever high inflation the fallout from the pandemic and an ongoing education crisis.
 
In his victory speech, the President-elect said addressing poverty and food security were among his top priorities. Let's discuss this now. Joining us 
 
 is Alberto Ramos; he's the head of Latin America Economic Research at Goldman Sachs.
 
Alberto, much to discuss in terms of the direction now that the country, the economy, the social economy goes in too. But first and foremost, do you 
 
 expect challenges over this election win from all scenarios come?
 
ALBERTO RAMOS, HEAD OF LATIN AMERICA ECONOMIC RESEARCH, GOLDMAN SACHS: To be seen, this was you know the famous margin of victory in a runoff in the 
 
 country remains deeply polarized. Socially and politically, the country is facing very significant economic and fiscal and social challenges. So it's 
 
 going to be a very difficult, you know, policy and governing background. Then President-elect Lula will face in the coming months.
 
He still has to provide a little bit more clarity on the policy mix that we need pursue. It also wants to nominate key members of the Cabinet, 
 
 particularly the Minister of Finance, or the market will take the cues from those signals that we expect to hear from the President-elect.
 
CHATTERLEY: And this is going to be crucial too. Because there's going to have to be multi-party coalition's built in order to get a two thirds 
 
 qualified majority in order to enact significant policy changes. And you can talk us through that.
 
But we are talking about getting support from more centrist policy. So in terms of what we have and what we don't have, and there is still I think, a 
 
 distinct lack of clarity over particularly economic policy direction. What do you think is achievable of what Lula has promised?
 
RAMOS: I mean, during campaigns, you know, a number of promises are made. And many of them will prove to be quite expensive from a fiscal standpoint. 
 
 It's a question of electing the right priorities. It's a question of electing of co-opting a number of forces in Congress.
 
I think Governability will be achieved. I think the President-elect will be able to go up with a number of centrist parties even center right parties 
 
 to form a broader coalition to move forward these East policy agenda. But the main challenge is to deepen the fiscal adjustment.
 
The fiscal accounts in Brazil are quite fragile. And something that you mentioned a few minutes ago. This has been a long underperforming economy, 
 
 social and economic progress has been painfully slow if we go back to 2011.
 
Since then, we have not seen any increase in per capita real GDP. So this is an economy that has stagnated for more than a decade, you know. So the 
 
 key challenge is to turn around this underperforming economy and unleash the Trump potential that still is out there in Brazil.
 
CHATTERLEY: I mean he did promise tax rises. He also promised a whole host of so foreign funded spending commitments as well. I mean, the sort of 
 
 counter that you've got to this is that you've got the Central Bank in Brazil.
 
That has really ramped up interest rates compared to what we had during the pandemic in order to counter high inflation. Actually, I think showing some 
 
 developed market nations, governments, and Central Banks. How it's done in order to get ahead of inflation and not let it get out of control.
 
Is that an effective counterbalance perhaps? Particularly given the environment that we're in to prevent over unfunded spending and perhaps 
 
 prevent in terms of the checks and balances that we've talked about in gaining a coalition support, particularly talking the center right, from 
 
 extreme tax rises?
 
RAMOS: Certainly, you know, the Central Bank is a very credible entity and the inflation targeting framework has been very well. This is a Central 
 
 Bank that was quite aggressive in pushing rates up. The monetary stance right now is quite restrictive, and the objective is noble.
 
They are trying to bring inflation down. Once they do that they will be able to start to cut rates. The question now is the fiscal promises that 
 
 were made during the campaign.
 
It's most likely will not be possible to comply with all of them within the bounds of fiscal responsibility. So what we expect is President-elect Lula 
 
 to pretty much follow a tax and spend strategy. But we'll have to negotiate that with Congress.
 
And I think, you know, Congress, probably because it's leaning more, on the right, will provide a little bit of checks and balances on more extreme 
 
 policies. It's sort of very hard bargain for the President-elect to extract concessions from Congress in order to increase in a very significant way 
 
 the tax burden.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
RAMOS: Also, let's keep in mind that tax burden in Brazil is already extraordinarily high. And raising rates, you know, beyond already an 
 
 extraordinarily high level will have implications for growth and investment going forward.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's going to be fascinating to see. I think one of the other things that's concerning for people and outside of Brazil. We don't 
 
 really have a sense of it, certainly in the United States.
 
Post-election here, we've felt it, but you've pulled some of the data as well and highlighted the polarization as it feeds into sort of public 
 
 perception of each candidate that we had in this election. And how it's impacted households, families, relationships, more than one-third of 
 
 voter's judge it, "Unacceptable" to vote for the other candidate would be unhappy if a son or daughter married a supporter of the other candidate.
 
And a significant we're talking 15 percent and 9 percent, Lula and Bolsonaro respectively. Supporters report having ended personal 
 
 relationships, because of politics. What does that kind of polarization mean for a society, particularly in the hours where we're still waiting for 
 
 one candidate to concede?
 
RAMOS: Look, it's a very unhealthy environment I just mentioned, you notice that 9 to 15 percent of individuals who have broken personal relationships. 
 
 You know, because of differences over politics that could undermine social peace that would undermine Governability. This is a country that is broken 
 
 down the middle; the levels of polarization are extremely high.
 
We don't think that polarization will disappear. Particularly because Bolsonaro reasonable as a political identity, as a political philosophy 
 
 actually gained deeper roots at the local level and also within Congress you know, President Bolsonaro may leave office at the beginning of January.
 
But that idea that political philosophy is still well alive. And therefore, you know that tension that political and social tension will be there in 
 
 the background. And can definitely undermine governability as you go forward.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I think this is something that we have to keep an eye on. In particular, and one of the other statistics and then I'll move on. But 
 
 38 percent and 32 percent that's Lula and Bolsonaro supporters specifically believe that broken relationships because of politics will not be restored 
 
 after the election.
 
So the legacy of this to your point continues. I think one of the key distinctions and it's very potent as we head towards cop 27 was the 
 
 differing approach to climate change. And protection of the Amazon as well, the world's largest carbon sinks.
 
So it's crucial for that conversation. It's crucial for the leadership in the country too. I think to have taken some form of ownership, particularly 
 
 among young people. And what does Lula's campaigning on a more ESG friendly platform I think mean not only for the country, but to Investors too. Could 
 
 that ultimately pay dividends Alberto in your mind?
 
RAMOS: Absolutely, now their environmental issues were a key axes of differentiation between Bolsonaro and Lula. We expect to see a very 
 
 significant pivot towards more ESG friendly types of policies. And then can unleash significant investment flows into the economy. And restart a little 
 
 bit the leadership that the country should have on those issues in international forum.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I think perhaps some of the relative warmth of responses from international leaders to this election victory perhaps tells you 
 
 something on that front too. Alberto, Great to have you with us. Thank you so much sir for your context and insight today.
 
Alberto Ramos, Head of Latin American Economic research at Goldman Sachs thank you. OK, so to come here on "First Move". Twitter's new owner said he 
 
 didn't want the platform to become a "Hellscape". That Elon Musk is being called out for spreading further misinformation the details next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move" and the opening bell standing on Wall Street this - morning and few treats in store for Investors this 
 
 Halloween day. The major averages weaker as Investors reassess valuations for tech names, in particular that have delivered disappointing results.
 
This earnings season the softer results coming against the backdrop of continued Federal Reserve tightening, never a strong environment. Of course 
 
 for tech stock performance, the Fed is set to deliver its latest three quarters of a percent rate hike this Wednesday.
 
And grain prices also in focus, wheat futures up more than 5 percent after Russia's sudden withdrawal from the Black Sea grain export deal corn 
 
 prices, also significantly higher too. And tricks are no treats in the oil patch also both Brent and U.S. crude down by more than 1 percent, its 
 
 disappointing, Chinese economic data feels concern over weaker demand.
 
New number is showing Chinese factory activity contracting this month amid ongoing COVID restrictions. And in the meantime, questions are continuing 
 
 to swirl about what the future for Twitter looks like under Elon Musk, and it seems how getting that all important blue checkmark is on his to do 
 
 list.
 
In response to a photographer on Sunday, the billionaire tweeted the whole verification process is being revamped right now. Oliver Darcy joins us now 
 
 with more on all of this. I have to say it was a very busy weekend all around for Elon Musk and Twitter and Twitter viewers I think itself.
 
Let's talk about the verification the tick mark, what it requires currently, and what it might require in the future? It could tie to content 
 
 moderation, it could also tie crucially, I think to monetization as well.
 
OLIVER DARCY, CNN SENIOR MEDIA REPORTER: Yes, right now currently, Twitter verifies public individuals who they think that the user base --wants to 
 
 know is real. So I think you have a verification mark, I have a verification mark, a lot of celebrities do. Public institutions like local 
 
 police departments, they're all verified that way people when they're on the platform, they know that this is an authentic account.
 
What Elon Musk is reportedly proposing and this is according to The Verge is charging $20 a month for this verification; it would be for Twitter 
 
 blue, which is the premium service that would up the price of $20 a month. And it would include in verification.
 
According to the same reports, though, the people who are already verified will then have to subscribe to this within 90 days, or they'll lose their 
 
 verification badge, that blue badge. I think this does raise a host of questions about being able to clean up the platform.
 
You know, Elon Musk has talked about how he doesn't want this platform to be a hellscape. But when you don't know what's authentic and what's not, I 
 
 think that makes it a little trickier for users to be able to trust the information that they're seeing on the platform.
 
It's still unclear I think the details and he hasn't really commented on this other than saying that he is revamping the verification process. So 
 
 hopefully at least you know government agencies like those local police departments will at least retain their blue badges that way during 
 
 instances of public emergency you know, things like hurricanes coming. And a police department tweeting to evacuate that people can count on that 
 
 information being true and the other imposter accounts don't spread mayhem.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
DARCY: But all up in the air right now and so we'll really see what's going on in the next few days, I think.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, whatever you do create a whole new set of challenges. I think authenticity, perhaps in that case, guaranteed quality control, 
 
 perhaps not. But to your point as well, perhaps the algorithm can be tweaked as well to amplify those that they believe or verify. But 
 
 sometimes, that can also amplify extremism and fallacy as well.
 
And on that point, obviously, news that we saw over the weekend was the attack on the House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's husband, Paul Pelosi and 
 
 obviously, it was reported widely across the media. Elon Musk himself then re-tweeted an article from a website that in the past has made questionable 
 
 accusations it suggested Hillary Clinton, I believe, one point had died. Of course, she hadn't raising more questions. Oliver, what do we make of this 
 
 one?
 
DARCY: Yes, well, this is, I think, a reason why you want to make sure the information is verified. And so it's a little strange, I think, to de-
 
 verify everyone, you've already gone through the process of verifying. But I think this does speak to a larger problem within the Republican Party.
 
And more broadly, in our information environment where conspiracy theories like these fringe ideas can gain foothold very quickly, inside the 
 
 Republican Party in the broader U.S. public conversation. So Paul Pelosi, we know was attacked, those reports came out on Friday.
 
And by Sunday, you have someone like Elon Musk, who is a very smart person giving credence to this idea. It just shows how broken I think our 
 
 information environment really is. And, frankly, Elon Musk, who is the Head of Twitter, now plays a key role and he should be working to clean this 
 
 information environment up not contributing to the contamination.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's difficult, isn't it? I mean, if we just keep politics out of it, I think it's OK to question content it's OK to question what 
 
 we're being told and by whom, and by raising that point. And he does continue to because we know he doesn't trust mainstream media, I think for 
 
 the most part.
 
But again, I think he perhaps illustrated the challenges more than a solution at this stage to your point, Oliver, great to have you on the 
 
 show. Thank you.
 
DARCY: Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK and CNN has the exclusive more details about that assaults on Paul Pelosi, the husband of U.S. Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi. Our 
 
 Veronica Miracle is following the story from San Francisco where the attack occurred inside the couple's home on Friday.
 
VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Sources familiar with this incident say to suspect to broke the hammer that was used in this attack in addition 
 
 to the duct tape, and the zip ties were also told by the district attorney's office that the suspect went upstairs into Paul Pelosi's bedroom 
 
 where he was sleeping.
 
Now Paul Pelosi is still recovering in the hospital, he suffered a skull fracture and injuries to his hands and arm when he was hit with that 
 
 hammer. It's without a doubt a difficult time for Speaker Pelosi who was now back in San Francisco. We did see her leave her residence, she ducked 
 
 into her motorcade out of her garage and she did not stop to talk to the media.
 
But she did send a letter to her colleagues in the House of Representatives emphasizing to greet her family is experiencing right now saying our 
 
 children, our grandchildren and I are heartbroken and traumatized by the life threatening attack on our pop.
 
Congressman Kevin McCarthy, the Minority Leader of the House, who was also a representative from California, was on Fox News putting aside all 
 
 differences and condemning the attack expressing his support for the Pelosi family.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-KY): Let me be perfectly clear, violence or threat of violence has no place in our society and what happened to Paul Pelosi is 
 
 wrong. Having heard it I reached out and called the speaker. She was on a plane back for her husband, so we were able to communicate by text.
 
She did say that the surgery went well. I wanted to convey that our thoughts and prayers were with her and her family and with Paul, and we 
 
 hope for him a speedy recovery and that we're able to stop this crime across our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIRACLE: The suspect David DePape is expected to be charged Monday with multiple felonies including attempted homicide and assault with a deadly 
 
 weapon and elder abuse among other charges. He is expected to be arraigned in court on Tuesday, Veronica miracle CNN San Francisco.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, coming up here on "First Move" an unprecedented day of protests across Iran. Sunday university students are defying the country's 
 
 leaders and continuing to demand for change, the latest after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move" another tense weekend of protests in Iran. Activist and human rights groups see violent clashes broke out 
 
 Sunday between security forces and students continuing to demand change. Protesters are defying Iranian leaders who warned against further 
 
 demonstrations, as Anna Coren reports.
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Protests in Iran have now entered their seventh week with violent clashes over the weekend, as security forces 
 
 fired tear gas at protesters at university campus right across the country, according to activist and human rights groups.
 
On Sunday, large numbers of protesters converged on the grounds of dozens of universities calling for an end to the regime as shown in social media 
 
 videos. A day after the head of the country's feared Revolutionary Guard issued an ultimatum claiming that Saturday would be the last day of 
 
 protests, threatening a tougher crackdown.
 
According to state media, the country's hard-line President Ebrahim Raisi said, "Security is the red line of the Islamic Republic and we will not 
 
 allow the enemy to implement in any way its plans to undermine this valuable national asset".
 
Iran has been gripped by protests following the death of 22 year old Mahsa Amini in mid-September after she was arrested by the morality police for 
 
 wearing an improper hijab. Rights group say hundreds of protesters have been killed and thousands arrested.
 
As authorities struggle to contain an outpouring of public anger and demonstrations is calling for the regime's overthrow. Well meanwhile, more 
 
 than 300 Iranian journalists have issued a statement calling for the release of two of their colleagues Niloofar Hamedi and Elahe Mohammadi 
 
 accused by the Ministry of Intelligence of being CIA spies and the "Primary source of news for foreign media, a crime punishable by death". And after 
 
 breaking the story of Amini's death, the two female journalists have been held in Tehran's Evin prison since their arrest last month. Anna Coren, CNN 
 
 Hong Kong.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: And more on "First Move" after this stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". Now we often talk about markets being spooked. But we mean it in a much more literal sense today. And it 
 
 probably won't have escaped your notice that today is Halloween and what better the way to celebrate an ancient spiritual tradition than with 
 
 copious amounts of candy or sweets in my world.
 
Mars Wrigley is the biggest candy maker in the world and says Halloween is like Christmas and the Super Bowl all rolled into one. It's capitalizing on 
 
 that with a range of spooky products for kids of all ages. Did you know every year that up to 300,000 tons of candy is sold in the United States?
 
And just to give you a sense that could fill the Titanic six times over rouses. Tim LeBel is the Chief Halloween Officer of Mars Wrigley U.S. 
 
 Newark, and he joins us now. You're also the President of Sales, Tim, let's be clear.
 
But I couldn't believe it when my team told me I was speaking to the Chief Halloween officer. Is that title officially on your business card by the 
 
 way?
 
TIM LEBEL, CHIEF HALLOWEEN OFFICER, MARS WRIGLEY U.S.: It is. Happy Halloween, everyone and it is absolutely on my business card from September 
 
 through October.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, but you do limit it by month. OK, that makes sense. I know that you've sold a lot of candy or sweets, as I mentioned, over the last 
 
 couple of months. Just talk to me about preparation for this Halloween specifically, because we know they've been logistical supply chain 
 
 challenges you've been preparing I believe, for a year for this event.
 
LEBEL: That is correct. First of all, it's a $10.6 billion season that's costumes decorations, and confectionery. Confectionery is about $3.2 
 
 billion. So it's a big, big business. So we plan with our retailers over a year in advance. And the big reason why we know 75 percent of U.S. 
 
 households will participate in Halloween. And within those 75 percent, 93 percent will celebrate with confectionery.
 
So it's a huge season and we're coming off a very big 2021 where we had record sell through. So Halloween trick or treat is officially back.
 
CHATTERLEY: Wow, how much bigger do you think this season will be? Because I think there was still some COVID concerns and restrictions last year, at 
 
 least mentally if nothing else, how much bigger do you think this year will be and from what you've already seen?
 
LEBEL: The National Retail Federation's projecting about a 1 percent increase. I can tell you Mars Wrigley is a little more bullish than that, 
 
 we prioritize this season. It's such a special season for our associates, our consumers and our customers. We wanted to make sure Mars Wrigley as the 
 
 authority on Halloween showed up in a big, big way.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean, I've been scouring the shops as well just to get a sense of prices. And you do a whole mix from sort of $3 bags all the way up 
 
 to $35 I think. And you can correct me if I'm wrong based on my shopping.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: What have you seen in terms of consumer behavior? Are they being a little bit more careful with what they're spending? And we seem to 
 
 be endlessly talking about input price inflation and you guys also surely facing that, too. To what extent are you able to pass that on or are trying 
 
 to avoid it and perhaps compressing margin slightly to do so will not do so?
 
LEBEL: Well, that Mars Wrigley, we believe the consumer is our boss. And our boss expects value for money. And that's our commitment. So we look at 
 
 our end-to-end supply chain and look where we can take costs out of the system, and without for one second compromising quality, and that's our 
 
 biggest principle. And that's our focus.
 
So we make sure we have price points, as you mentioned, from $3, all the way up to big super variety bags at $35. So every family has an opportunity 
 
 to celebrate with our treats during our favorite Halloween season.
 
CHATTERLEY: You know part of the problem and the concern that I see at around this time of year, it's not all costs of financial waste is huge at 
 
 this time of year as well. And this is something else that you've tried to tackle trick or trash bags.
 
Explain how this works, because I do think this is a crucial way to think about this time. And perhaps you can tell me if you're going to do it for 
 
 holiday season too because this is about tackling sustainability in a smart way, trick or trash bags.
 
LEBEL: Absolutely. So we partnered this year with smart waste and recycling provider Rubicon. And we created the first time ever a bag where kids and 
 
 families together can go out trick or treat and prepaid postage envelope send back their rapper waste.
 
Rapper waste are biggest season, rapper waste is one of our biggest opportunities, as Mars Wrigley wanted to do more to help our circular 
 
 economy. So people can put the wrappers in, seal it up and send it right back. And I'm thrilled every state in the U.S. purchased some of our bags, 
 
 actually they're free.
 
They ordered some of our bags, and we sent them out, we sold out in five hours. So our consumers care about a circular economy. Mars Wrigley cares. 
 
 So we're glad to partner with Rubicon for this Halloween season.
 
CHATTERLEY: Wow. So they're free to the consumer, States just bought them in and then handed them out. And hopefully we'll tackle some of the waste 
 
 produced. LEBEL: Absolutely, absolutely. And we'll learn we're going to learn a lot this year. And we'll look in partner with Rubicon and others to 
 
 continue to drive efficiency within our supply chain.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean, speaking of that, I know you have all sorts of operations to try and improve your carbon footprint. One of the things I 
 
 read was that M&amp;Ms are now produced entirely from renewable energy. I mean, you can talk to me a little bit more about that.
 
But if people are looking for carbon free candy, then I guess M&amp;Ms are your friend. And what's the message from Mars Wrigley about your ambitions, 
 
 particularly as we had towards that COP27?
 
LEBEL: Yes, we announced our sustainable in a generation plan and it's a comprehensive plan for Mars Incorporated, how we're trying to contribute to 
 
 a circular economy. I think the one you mentioned around M&amp;Ms is a perfect example, in Hackettstown, New Jersey, home of M&amp;Ms we have a solar garden 
 
 that helps us re-energize and contribute to that circular economy that you describe.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean, this is really good. I've got one more question as well. How many parents admit to stealing their children's sweets and candy? 
 
 Do you have any statistics on that?
 
LEBEL: As a parent of two, I'm guilty as charged. I'm sure; I'm not alone in doing that. I also like getting the entire bag, spread it out and break 
 
 it down by manufacturer and do my own neighborhood analysis, which is always a lot --.
 
CHATTERLEY: Wow. I think it's a parental service, quite frankly because the dentist tells after all that sweets as well. What do your children think if 
 
 their dad being a Chief Halloween officer, by the way, that's a pretty cool, bring your dad into school conversation?
 
LEBEL: Yes, this title is finally a title that my children understand actually what dad does, so it's been a un-locker for me at home.
 
CHATTERLEY: Your cool factor definitely went up with that one. Final quick question and you may not have the answer. But I just have to go back to 
 
 that point about six Titanic's worth of sweets or candy being eaten in the United States.
 
Do you have any just off the top of your head comparison to anywhere else in the world? Does America consume more candy than anywhere else in the 
 
 world on a per capita basis obviously? Or do you not know Tim; I'm just trying to--
 
LEBEL: Well, that's really, as you know, is a global company and we major, major markets.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes.
 
LEBEL: I know our China market, Asia, Europe markets and the U.S. those are our big three markets. U.S. is certainly our largest confectionery market 
 
 in the world.
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, Candy consumers like crazy, Tim, great to chat to you. Thank you so much for joining us.
 
LEBEL: Thank you, happy Halloween.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, you too. OK, it may be spooky season but the rock still rules at the box office. Dwayne Johnson's Black Adam holding onto the top 
 
 spot for a second weekend with a $28 million take. The superhero film was down nearly 60 percent in fact from its debut weekend, but still held off a 
 
 star studded rom-com and three horror flicks.
 
And finally to a billion and maybe beyond, that's what the U.S. Powerball jackpot is estimated to have grown to, after no tickets matched all the 
 
 winning numbers in Saturday's draw. It's only the second time the jackpot has reached a billion dollars. The next draw is tonight.
 
If you have a ticket, good luck. You'll need it. The odds of winning are a daunting one in 292 million. Wow. Those are long odds however, someone has 
 
 to win. That's it for the show. If you've missed any of our interviews today, they will be on my Twitter and Instagram pages. You can search that 
 
 @jchatterleycnn. In the meantime, "Connect the World" with Becky Anderson is up next. And I'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END