Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Bodycam Video Shows Police Shootout With Teen Suspect In North Carolina; Warnock And Walker Make Final Pitches Ahead Of Election Day; Biden Proposes South Carolina As First Primary State In 2024 Race; United States Falls To The Netherlands 3-1, Ending World Cup Run; Mauna Loa Volcano's Lava Moving Closer To Major Highway; Iran Officials: 200 People Have Died During Recent Protests; Police On "Rumor Control" In Unsolved Deaths Of Four Students. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired December 03, 2022 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:59:57]
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): After firing 23 shots, Raleigh officers establish a perimeter around the building before going in and finding the suspect wounded, according to the preliminary police report released in October.
 
Investigators say the suspect had a shotgun and shells nearby him. The suspect has not been charged. However, the Wake County district attorney has said her office intends charging the 15-year-old as an adult.
 
In a statement obtained by a CNN affiliate WTVD in October, the suspect's parents saying they don't understand why this happened. Writing, "There were never any indications or warning signs that their son was capable of doing anything like this."
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST (on camera): All right. Ryan Young, thank you so much.
 
Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Saturday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
All right, moments ago, the Netherlands knocked out the United States Men's National Team 3-1 to advance to the quarterfinals in the FIFA World Cup. And we will take you live to Doha in just minutes.
 
Meantime, all eyes are back on Georgia on Tuesday as the state gears up for its second U.S. Senate runoff election in two years. Incumbent Democratic Senator Raphael Warnock and his Republican challenger Herschel Walker making their final pitches to voters this weekend, sometimes live and then sometimes via television ads.
 
All of this ahead of the key race that will determine if Democrats hold a one seat, Senate Majority or if there will be a 50-50 split with the Vice President Kamala Harris holding a tie breaking vote.
 
CNN's Eva McKend, joining us now from Atlanta. You've essentially taken up residence here in Georgia for the last few months. Eva, how are candidates trying to make their -- you know, last weekend before the big vote appeals and pitches?
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER (on camera): Well, Fred, Republican hopeful, Herschel Walker actually not holding any formal campaign events today. We have learned he is spending the afternoon in Atlanta at a tailgate party.
 
But Senator Warnock earlier today, held -- holding a union rally here in Atlanta, and workers really from all across the country, not only from here in Georgia, but from other states as well. Here to volunteer and do the crucial work of door knocking. I'm actually going to show you right behind me it's a little bit rainy here, but you have organizers getting on and off this bus as they go canvas today.
 
We caught up with an organizer earlier, as well, I want you to take a listen to that. And also, Senator Warnock, how he aimed to inspire these canvassers.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. RAPHAEL WARNOCK (D-GA), SENATORIAL CANDIDATE: The pandemic helped us to see things we should have seen before the pandemic. They are essential workers. But here is my thing, if people are essential workers, then we ought to pay them an essential wage.
 
DEBRA DAWSON, UNION ORGANIZER: Every door that I knocked on, they were ready, or they had already voted. So, they were excited. They were getting their family members involved. They were having both parties. It was just phenomenal.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKEND: Core to Warnock's message today, essentially, don't take your foot off the gas. Don't get overconfident. That is what he was telling these union workers today, that though the early voting numbers look good, they still have work to do in the next three crucial days, Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: Because those numbers are tight. Indeed. Eva McKend, thank you so much.
 
All right, big changes could be coming for the Democrats 2024 primary calendar. The rulemaking arm of the national committee has voted in favor of President Biden's proposal of a new primary order.
 
If approved, it would mean that South Carolina will become the first state to hold a primary. Nevada and New Hampshire would follow days later, with their primaries being held simultaneously, followed by Georgia, and then Michigan before Super Tuesday.
 
For more on all of this, let's bring in CNN's Arlette Saenz at the White House. Arlette, good to see you.
 
So, why does Biden want to change the primary calendar? And what are the chances that these changes will actually take effect? ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (on camera):Well, Fred, President Biden's argument in proposing this new primary calendar with South Carolina going first is that he wants more diverse states have a bigger say in the early nominating process. This is something that President Biden, as a candidate, often pointed to back in the 2020 campaign.
 
Saying that diverse states and voices needed to be heard as these primaries were underway. And that is why President Biden, on Thursday, sent a letter to the Democratic National Committee, suggesting these changes, which would bring South Carolina to the very start of that primary calendar.
 
And also make some other changes with Nevada, New Hampshire going on the same day next, and then, followed by a Georgia which has really become a battleground state in recent years, and then Michigan.
 
Now, Iowa has long been the start of the primary season.
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
Four Democrats and Republicans going back to 1972. But one thing that the president also does not want to see heading into this next cycle is the existence of any caucuses, which is what Iowa does in their nominating process.
 
Now, while this rules was approved by the Democratic National Committee, it still needs to have a bigger vote early next year. But there are some logistical hurdles that are existing at this moment from getting this put into place.
 
Each state sets their own primary calendars, and they have their own process for doing that. Both Iowa and New Hampshire have laws in shrining their first in the nation status.
 
And then, there is also state specific rules. For instance, in Georgia, the state secretary of state sets a date for both Republicans and Democrats.
 
So far, Republicans have indicated that they are going to stick to their calendar, which could set up some issues heading into these 2024 elections.
 
But President Biden is hoping for a much more diverse, a slate of states to be nominating their next candidate.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, we shall see. Arlette Saenz at the White House, thanks so much.
 
And this just in. A disappointing end to the U.S. soccer teams World Cup run. The U.S. team, they fell 3-1 to the Netherlands despite some late last minute near miss goals. A valiant effort from star midfielder Christian Pulisic, who returned to action despite suffering an injury in the previous match.
 
CNN's Andy Scholes and Amanda Davies are here to catch us up on all of it.
 
Andy, you're with the fans in Atlanta. Amanda, you're there in Doha? So, Andy, I will go to you first because the look on your face.
 
You know, you're in the middle of the live shot and you were watching just as the fans were about the defeat that moment. Defeat for the U.S. Tell us what's happening. What's the mood now there?
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Well, yes. Fredricka, fans are starting to fall out. I mean, it was just a range of emotions here at Fado Irish Pub here in Atlanta. Yes, it was like gut punch right before halftime because the Netherlands score to take a 2-0 lead.
 
But then, in the 76-minute, Team USA getting a goal, this place went crazy. People jumping up and down, Beer was flying everywhere, because we were back in it, we had a chance. But then, just five minutes later, the Netherlands scored again and take a 3-1 lead. And at that point, most of the fans here knew it's pretty much over.
 
There was a contingent of Netherlands fan standing actually right behind me. They were having a grand old time the whole time. They celebrated after the win.
 
But you know, still a valiant effort from Team USA. I got Chris here. He had been watching all morning long, out here super early to get in, because there was a line around the building. Chris, you know, not the result Team USA wanted, but I mean, still a great showing at this World Cup.
 
CHRIS, FAN OF U.S. MEN'S NATIONAL SOCCER TEAM: 100 percent. Right now it hurts, right? But if he asked me before the tournament, this was a win for us. Right? Getting out of the group for a young team. I think we're the second or third youngest team in the World Cup.
 
This is a win. We got a lot of young guys, some knockout experience. In four years, we're hosting. I like where we're at right now.
 
SCHOLES: All right, Chris. Thanks a lot. And get some rest after exhilarating day.
 
And then, and (INAUDIBLE) that was -- Fredricka, that was the feeling I was getting from a lot of these fans I talked to as they were leaving. That we might have lost today and we might be out of the World Cup. But there's lots of optimism from what we showed.
 
I mean, we didn't even make it four years ago and here we are in the knockout stage.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, it was exciting.
 
SCHOLES: And we were right in this game.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. SCHOLES: We got so many shots on goal. I mean, we could -- it could the result could have easily gone the other way. But you know, fans obviously sad but optimistic looking forward to the future of men's U.S. soccer.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, yes, it's palpable. Everyone is very proud of that team. I mean, you know, go USA and beautiful young team.
 
Meantime there, Amanda in Doha, the Netherlands fans are through the roof, on top of the world. So, you know, tee us up on how that -- how that moment, that defining moment of the end of that game played out?
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORT ANCHOR (on camera): Yes, it's not often actually that the Dutch fans are outnumbered traveling to major international football or an event, but they certainly were this evening.
 
The U.S. fans here in numbers, doing the Men's National Team proud, proudly wearing their red, white, and blue with their faces painted, wearing the stars and stripes on their hats, on their t-shirts, on their trousers, on their socks, literally, anywhere you could put a flag there was a flag.
 
And I agree with everything that Andy and that fan there said because this is such a young U.S. side. 25 out of 26 members of the squad had no World Cup experience at all coming into this tournament.
 
I hate to say it, but the one thing we've been talking about all the way through the last couple of weeks is that failure to score that final touch despite the builds up play, which has been so impressive.
 
That was what led the side down again. And the Dutch, you know, they are three-time World Cup runners up. They have a very, very experienced coach in Louis van Gaal. He knows how to play this tournament, football.
 <br>[12:10:01]
 
They're a side, he went into this game unbeaten in 18 matches dating back to the European championships. And so, they were never going to be a pushover, they were always going to be the toughest test that this young side have faced, not only at this tournament, but really in the Gregg Berhalter-era, given this stage. So, they have lots to be proud of.
 
And yes, the word coming out of the camp is yes, we're hosting the tournament in four years-time, co-hosting the tournament in four years-time. We want to make an impact here. They certainly have made that impacts, and has been a really noticeable shift that this is a team that believes now they can beat anybody in the world on that day.
 
That has been the message out of Gregg Berhalter's camp throughout the last couple of months. We've seen it in the dressing room after the games as he's been addressing the sides.
 
And, you know, understandable real disappointment on the faces of these players. As we saw, the full time whistle go, it will be a tough one for them to get over. But they will, and they will come back stronger.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Well, the U.S. Team, they're not the only believers. I mean, they've got a fan base of believers that is just, you know, extraordinary.
 
Thanks to Amanda and Andy, thank you so much.
 
All right, let's talk more about all of this. Joining us right now, former Team USA forward Charlie Davies. Charlie, good to see you. Oh, my gosh, this was so exciting. What can we say? How did -- how sis you see it?
 
CHARLIE DAVIES, FORMER PLAYER, U.S. MEN'S NATIONAL SOCCER TEAM: Well, thank you for having me on the show. I'm excited about this group. I'm proud to watch this young group of men.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
C. DAVIES: Come together and promote the sport. Because, I guess, ideally, it was just getting out of the group. That was what we want to see from this group. And then, to see them come up with ideas and passing patterns.
 
And for me, they've taken a massive step forward. And the grand scale, the grand the grand plan was to be able to compete for the World Cup in 2026. To have a contender.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
C. DAVIES: We have that.
 
WHITFIELD: I love that you mentioned the whole passing strategies. I mean, look, I'm -- you know, a neophyte, you know, to soccer to this kind of football, but just watching them practice, seeing these, this passing this creative stuff, creative to me as a layman, you know, just, you know, passing by way of the hip, et cetera. That was incredible.
 
So, I love that you mentioned that, that was that's kind of among their secret weapons, you know, of this young U.S. team.
 
I mean, what do you see then, in the next four years as they get ready for the World Cup hosted in the U.S.? I mean, they can only get better, be better, reach higher.
 
DAVIES: You love the midfield core, and that's the core of the team, the strength of this team.
 
And Yunus Musah, Tyler Adams, and Weston McKennie. Yunus Musah just turned 20 years old on the day they beat Iran in the World Cup, and Tyler Adams is a captain. And I think everyone knows just what a professional kid this is. Because you have a question like Iran -- the Iranian reporter and trying to push all the wrong buttons and, and Tyler Adams represented the team so well. And that's a leader on and off the field and Christian Pulisic, I mean, that always referred to as Captain America, he stepped up in this tournament.
 
So, I think, when you are looking forward, the future is so bright, because you have also Gio Reyna, who didn't get that much playing time in this tournament, but he's a super talented player.
 
Someone who you expect to be on the field in 2026, then, Bren Aaronson. So, you have a lot of young players who are playing on Champions League clubs who have done so on this tournament that you can say, man, I'm going to bet on this team in the future.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, I mean, they are now household names. I mean, a lot of folks were not familiar, you know, with Tyler, Pulisic, you know, Gio, any of them before this whole World Cup, you know, stage.
 
And now, you know, everyone is talking about them. And I mean, what do you -- what do you believe or how do you see that they have impacted not just the game and the stature of the U.S. Men's Team, for the next generation of soccer players?
 
DAVIES: I have twin boys. They're in first grade. They're 6 years old. And I haven't really pushed them to say, hey, you got to play soccer and soccer is going to be the number one passion.
 
But just seeing them wanting to come home and put on a U.S. Jersey, they want to go to school in their U.S. jersey. They're already talking about, I want to be on the World Cup, I want to play at the World Cup. They have already inspired my twin boys.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, great.
 
DAVIES: So, just knowing that a performance like Iran and the whole world watching. It felt like the whole country was watching this team. And for Christian Pulisic to score that goal. For them to have that magical win, they have already inspired my kids.
 
So, I know there are tons of kids in this country that are saying, I want to one day play soccer, I want to one day represent the country and play in a World Cup.
 
So, that's for me, what it's all about. Inspiring a generation. And they've done that already.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, that's -- oh, that's palpable. I agree with you on that. I have twins as well.
 <br>[12:15:01]
 
And the little boy, of my fraternal twins, he too was just like, he is the one who educated me on Pulisic.
 
You know, like, he is the one to watch. I'm like, I'm getting this from my 10-year-old. So, yes, he too, is inspired by this team in so many ways. So, you know, in 2026, with this World Cup, being hosted in North America, what has this World Cup in Doha? How do you suppose it may have inspired a new way in which audiences all around the world will be embracing? How it will be conveyed?
 
You know, I mean, there was a lot of controversy with Doha, presumably a lot less controversy involving the U.S. hosting it.
 
But do you see -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
DAVIES: Oh, yes.
 
WHITFIELD: The World Cup soccer stage, I guess, evolving in a different way, in which a soccer will be brought into the homes of millions around the world?
 
DAVIES: Well, it's going to be different because it's the first World Cup where you'll have 48 teams instead of 32.
 
So, naturally, it's just going to be a much more engaging World Cup, many more countries represented, and the United States, we are a country that invites immigrants, that invites different cultures and ethnicities, and promotes that.
 
So, I look at major league soccer and how much it's grown. And now, with Apple being the sole provider for the league, it's going to, I think, give people a window of just how much soccer content they can consume.
 
And I think with the World Cup, and performances, like we saw from this group, there are more -- there's more interest. I mean, look how much the league has grown? Major League Soccer from 1996 to now, it took a World Cup in '94 to grow it. And I think in '26 -- from now, until '26, it's just a free train -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: It's on fire.
 
DAVIES: -- of excitement.
 
WHITFIELD: Right.
 
DAVIES: And everyone's -- the build-up is going to be massive. So, I look at this as a way for people to really come together. I think we saw that and all these watch parties, Kansas City, I mean, the Power Light District was packed with people and I just think that with this World Cup, people are going to be excited to get back together and watch the sport.
 
And you see the power of unity, the power of the sport has on people.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, it's a beautiful camaraderie. I must say that is -- that is admirable. So, with the U.S. now out of contention, just got to ask, do you have other teams that you're cheering for? Rooting for? You know? I just did this little nudge for?
 
DAVIES: I'm not rooting for anyone.
 
WHITFIELD: (INAUDIBLE) on spot.
 
DAVIES: Anyone, I just want to see goal. And I think Brazil just has that power to entertain. They have so many players that have that special one-v-one (PH) genius.
 
And so, you look at a player like Neymar, you look at a player. I mean, Richarlison is someone who was crying nearly because he got injured and he thought he was going to have to miss the World Cup. And here he is scoring, which, I think could be the goal of the tournament so far.
 
So, I think Brazil is one to watch. That Messi, you know, everyone wants to see Messi win a World Cup so then he could be in the same conversation as Diego Maradona, the best to ever do it.
 
So, those are the two teams that I'm looking forward to seeing the rest of the tournament.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, and I guess with Brazil, and its legacy of Pele. I mean, you know, always a crowd favorite, as well.
 
Charles Davies, great talking to you.
 
DAVIES: Always.
 
WHITFIELD: And something tells me, your twin boys were first inspired by you. And now, they are further inspired, taking it to another level as a result of today's World Cup showing with the USA.
 
Thank you so much, Charles.
 
DAVIES: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, good talking to you.
 
All right still to come. The world's largest active volcano is spewing rivers of flowing lava, drawing massive crowds as the molten rock inches closer to a major highway in Hawaii.
 
Plus, an agonizing history in Idaho, as police still have not named a suspect in the gruesome murders of four college students but they are sharing new information about a sixth resident on the lease.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:23:11]
 
WHITFIELD: It's as inspiring as it is concerning. Today, the world's largest active volcano continues to ooze lava on Hawaii's Big Island. And right now the lava is creeping dangerously close to a major highway on the island. It's an incredible sight and one many people want to see first-hand. So, officials have created a route where the public can view the lava flow safely.
 
For Hawaiians this eruption offers a rare and significant cultural milestone.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CLAUDIA PALEA, ORIGINALLY FROM PEPEEKEO, HAWAII: It makes me feel like I'm home again. You know, because this is where we were raised. And we grew up with the legend of Pele, we believe her -- believe in her, you know, dearly.
 
And so, seeing her magnificent volcano erupt, will just release, you know, home --- his home.
 
PILANI ZYCH, RESIDENT, OAHU, HAWAII: It's all beautiful to us. And so, we pay huge reverence to this. It's very culturally significant for us as well. So, it's a big deal.
 
WHITFIELD: Joining us now, Associate Professor and chair of Geosciences at Denison University, Erik Klemetti. Professor, so good to see you.
 
ERIK KLEMETTI, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR AND CHAIR, GEOSCIENCES, DENISON UNIVERSITY: Hi, thanks for having me.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh. So, you're watching this, just like all of us are. I mean, we're all in owe, but you know, we also know, oh, my gosh, this is incredibly dangerous.
 
But help us understand why it is as dangerous as it is, it still elicits a response from all of us of just, you know, awestruck and inspired by what we're seeing.
 
KLEMETTI: Yes, I mean, why is it a unique location, in terms of the ability to have, you know, we have these volcanic eruptions, some of which are quite devastating for homes and towns, like we saw in 2018 on Kilauea.
 
But it's also can be a place where these eruptions are actually approachable, where you can get close to it, see this molten rock coming shooting out of the ground, like we're seeing on Mauna Loa right now.
 <br>[12:25:08]
 
And, you know, it's one of those experiences of getting up to an event like that, that I think can kind of change your perspective about how the world operates as a -- as a something that's constantly changing.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, and when you say close, we're really talking like, within miles because nobody needs to be, you know, close within inches or feet. Right? You know, II mean, people are, you know, kept at a pretty good distance as far -- as much as they can right now. But you know, as we look at this, I mean, it's like a, you know, just the earth just kind of sliced open, and you're seeing these mountains of lava erupting there.
 
I mean, NOAA satellites, have also been capturing these thermal images of the eruption. And I mean, we can look and we see, and we know, OK, that is hot.
 
But is there any way to really gauge how hot are we talking? What are the temperatures that, you know, you scientists are able to detect is coming out of that concave space?
 
KLEMETTI: So -- yes, that's a great question.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
KLEMETTI: So, in Hawaii, the type of lava that's erupting is what we called, the salt (PH). And it is the hottest lava that is currently erupting on the earth. And, you know, if you were to measure the lava as it's coming out of the vents, so you see these pictures at Mauna Loa, of the fountains of lava coming out of the crack in the ground, and those are probably erupting at close to 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit.
 
So, it's hard to really get a sense of that, you know, you go up to your oven, you open it up, when you're boiling something and you feel that wave of heat, that's about four or five times cooler than this lava flow.
 
And having been up to a lava flow myself, and sampled one, it, it even blew my mind as a volcanologist, just the heat that one feels from that lava that's right there.
 
It's just something that's unimaginable, because there's really nothing in our everyday life that really reaches that sort of temperature.
 
You know, you're walking around on solid rock, you look down in the cracks, and you've seen glowing down there. And then you get up to this lava flow, where suddenly the thing that you think is permanent, and solid, like rock is flowing.
 
And it's just one of those sort of really remarkable experiences to have, but one that you definitely have to do in the company of people who know what they're doing.
 
WHITFIELD: Right? I mean -- I mean, your description is so beautiful, because it really puts us there. For many who of us who have not seen an active volcano, I've been it to Kilauea when there was heat coming, you know, from the vents, but not to see active lava flow like this.
 
So, you know, you talked about your experience as a scientist, but we also know this is culturally significant. We heard some of the sound bites from the Hawaiians there about how important this is to them. So, I wonder if you could kind of add to that the significance, the Importance culturally, of people being able to witness this. We heard one man talking about the offering, making the offering to the volcano while being there.
 
KLEMETTI: So, this is something that you commonly see when you, you know, when I have visited the Hawai'i Volcanoes National Park. There are offerings at various places around Kilauea.
 
You know, the island of -- the Big Island of Hawaii is made up of five separate volcanoes. And four of them have likely had eruptions during the time that people have been on the island. So, it is a island that was born from volcanoes, it grows larger through volcanic activity.
 
And all of the sorts of features that we think of in Hawaii, some of the ability to have this lush vegetation is thanks to the fact that you have these really replenishing rich lavas that when they break down they make these soils that we can grow coffee in and we can grow all sorts of plants on.
 
So, I think the volcanoes are seen as really that sort of core central piece of existing on the island.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, and just to remind people too, and you can better explain, I remember when being on the Big Island seeing how you know the lava -- hardened lava had restructured the coastline. It -- you know, certainly we go right over roadways and so it meant redirecting things later.
 
I mean, there really is no redirecting. I think a lot of people still wonder like, OK, how can they you know stop the lava or redirect it, so, it won't go toward homes and explain why you just can't do that? There's nothing that's going to stand in the way of this molten lava.
 
KLEMETTI: Yes, and people have tried it in Hawaii, and in other places to redirect lava flows.
 
Remember, I think one of the things that's easy to picture is that it would be like maybe redirecting a river, except that the lava, it's molten rock. So, it has -- even though it's molten, it's made of -- it's got the density of solid rock.
 <br>[12:30:05]
 
KLEMETTI: And it's also really, really hot, as we have talked about. So trying to do things like, you know, spray water on it, had -- there's been some places that have had a little success with that, but not much, you know, you tried to put in jersey barriers, like on a highway, and it can just push them over and go right over the top of them. It's really hard to control where that lab is going to head.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Professor Erik Klemetti, thank you so much for all of your descriptions and taking us there, by way of your experiences and knowledge. Appreciate it.
 
KLEMETTI: That's it was my pleasure. WHITFIELD: All right, coming up, a man was reportedly killed by Iranian security forces while celebrating the nation's loss in the World Cup adding to the growing fears amid Iran's crackdown on anti- government protests, details straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:35:16]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, welcome back. At least 200 people have died in recent protests in Iran. That's an admission from the country's Security Council. And that number includes those the council called innocent victims and martyrs. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh explains how World Cup celebrations within Iran were also protests.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Protests turned into scenes of joy and jubilation across Iran this week. Iranians were out celebrating their country's defeat to the World Cup. Surreal but for many after touting its team, it was the repressive regime that was defeated. No longer could it claim a victory while violently suppressing its own people.
 
Mehran Samak was out on the streets of his city of Bandar-e Anzali in his car honking the horn in celebration, when he was shot in the head. Activist and a human rights monitor tells CNN, it was regime forces that killed the 27-year-old.
 
Authorities denied killing Samak. They're investigating his quote, suspicious death. They say several suspects have been arrested. Investigations by the Iranian government into the deaths of young protesters since September lacked credibility and impartiality, according to the U.N. We're not allowed to report from inside Iran. Those who speak to it face jail or worse, making it hard for us to tell the stories of victims and those left to mourn.
 
Samak's Instagram post just a little snapshot of a life ended too soon. An athletic young man who enjoyed life, being with his friends and water sports, growing up he played soccer with Saeed Ezatolahi, now a midfielder in the national team who shared this photo. Mourning his childhood friend he wrote, I wish we could always stay at the same age, without any concerns, without hate, without jealousy, without fighting to put each other down. After another bitter night last night and with the news of your death, my heart is even more on fire.
 
At Samak's burial mourners chant, death to the dictator, Khamenei must go. Every life loss brings more heart ache, more anger, more defiance and determination of a people risking it all in this bloody battle for freedom.
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: And on an all new, This is Life with Lisa Ling, discover why one man has more than 128 children across the globe and meets the families that he's helping.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LISA LING, CNN "THIS IS LIFE WITH LISA LING" HOST: Do you have any expectations about how much time he might spend with your child?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No, we didn't know. We didn't even know if he'd be involved at all. We were at the beginning of this whole kind of thing like --
 
LING: Because you had like 20 kids at the time?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, lesser, because the line is just number 15.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, you didn't have that many. So we didn't know what type of involvement Ari would have wanted as a donor. You know, we didn't know what we'd feel comfortable with. It wasn't until I was pregnant and like we started getting closer with Ari. And then we had Elijah. And the first time he held him and we saw how Elijah looked at him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That was it for me.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That was it for you, right?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It was like an instant bond.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, like it just was just felt so natural.
 
LING: Eight years later, that bond is firmly intact.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I can take like a live photo.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, let's do a live photo and we'll do a toast. You take your cup of milk. I'll take my coffee. And then we'll make a boomerang.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a little hard to do it both.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'll do it --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Because you have to hold it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I'll hold it. But get your cup ready. One, two, three.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[12:38:55]
 
WHITFIELD: This is Life with Lisa Ling tomorrow night at 9:00 Eastern right here on CNN. And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: It's been nearly three weeks since four Idaho college students were killed and police still have neither a suspect nor a murder weapon. And now a series of confusing statements has investigators on rumor control as they tried to debunk conjecture about the unsolved deaths. CNN's Camila Bernal joining me now from Los Angeles with the very latest. So Camila what are the false claims that they're trying to clear up?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fred, there's been so much speculation. And really it is in part because they still don't have a motive. They don't have a suspect. They don't have a weapon. And it's three weeks later. So a lot of people just so worried. 
 
One of the things that they cleared up recently is that they're saying that there was a sixth person on the lease of the house. They're saying that person they don't believe is a suspect in this case. They've also ruled out some of the surviving roommates. They've ruled out other people who were seen on surveillance video with Kaylee and Maddie at the food truck, the driver that brought them home, they had been cleared.
 
Just a couple of rumors that police say, hey, wait a minute. This is not the case here. Let us do our work in this investigation. But of course, people continue to be worried and try to come up with theories. That's why in their latest statement, authorities saying this, they say there is speculation without factual backing, stoking community fears and spreading false facts. So what they're saying now is essentially, wait for us to finish this investigation. Wait, as we continue to make progress.
 
They say there is progress, but it is behind the scenes. And they're also saying look, it is just going to take a little bit more time here. One of the things that was very confusing was that they've always said that this was a targeted attack. But recently they said, look, we just have not been able to determine whether the house was targeted or the students were targeted. So of course, people there still in so much fear. Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, all right, Camila Bernal, thanks so much.
 <br>[12:45:02]
 
BERNAL: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: And then a month after the fatal shooting of rapper Takeoff, an arrest has been made in connection with his death. Police have charged 33-year-old Patrick Xavier Clark with killing Takeoff in a shooting in Houston outside a private event. Police have made another arrest in the incident charging 22-year-old Cameron Joshua with unlawfully carrying a weapon.
 
Homicide investigators say Takeoff was an innocent bystander who was at the wrong place at the wrong time when shots rang out outside a bowling alley. Takeoff just 28 years old, was a member of the platinum selling rap group Migos.
 
Still ahead, the cruise ship passenger who was rescued after some 15 hours in the Gulf of Mexico says he isn't even sure how he went overboard. CNN spoke to him about this unbelievable incident and we'll bring that to you straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:50:38]
 
WHITFIELD: Twitter has suspended rapper Kanye West's account for inciting violence. The ban came after West posted an altered image of the Star of David with a swastika inside. He also praised Hitler during a conversation with conspiracy theorist Alex Jones. CNN's Brian Todd has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Kanye West brazen anti- Semitism is rolling on unabated despite losing deals with Adidas, the Gap, Vogue, and other corporations over his recent death con three on Jews tweet, West appearing in an odd black mask on Infowars a show hosted by conspiracy theorist Alex Jones praising Adolf Hitler.
 
KANYE WEST, AMERICAN RAPPER: I see good things about Hitler also. I'm done with the classifications. Every human being has something of value that they brought to the table especially Hitler. There's a lot of things that I love about Hitler, a lot of things.
 
TODD (voice-over): West has apparently jumped so far off the deep end that he's even too outrageous for Elon Musk's new Wild West Twitter. The rapper who now goes by the name Ye, has just had his account suspended by Twitter. CNN could not confirm which specific tweet prompted this suspension. But just before it happened, West tweeted an image of a Star of David with a swastika inside. Then Musk tweeted, I tried my best, despite that, he again violated a rule against incitement to violence.
 
JONATHAN GREENBLATT, ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE: While I want to see Twitter do more to address intolerance and incitement on the platform, I'm glad they've taken down Kanye account.
 
TODD (voice-over): Why should we care about the rants of an ostracized artists like West? Jonathan Greenblatt of the Anti-Defamation League points to West's 30 plus million followers on Twitter before his account was suspended?
 
GREENBLATT: The truth is, he still has a lot of cultural cache. His name is still, you know, known around the world. So when someone like that is popularizing anti-Semitism, we've all got a problem.
 
TODD (voice-over): But if you think Elon Musk has written in to save social media from the likes of Kanye West think again, despite Musk's recent declaration that hate speech had been reduced on Twitter since he took over. Two new studies show the opposite. The Anti-Defamation League and the Center for Countering Digital Hate, both have new reports saying the volume of hate speech on Twitter has risen dramatically under Musk's leadership.
 
IMRAN AHMED, CENTER FOR COUNTERING DIGITAL HATE: Elon Musk took over a platform that was working OK and set -- and first of all, fired all the people whose job it was to clean these things up. And second, he put up the bat signal saying, you know what, we're open to business to racist to homophobes to transphobes and to misogynist too.
 
TODD (voice-over): And Imran Ahmed warns there's genuine danger here beyond the keyboard anonymity of social media rants.
 
AHMED: Look at the rise in transphobic hatred on social media platforms and homophobic hatred and look at what happened in Colorado Springs.
 
TODD (on camera): Twitter has not responded to our request for comment on the two new studies showing a surge of hate speech on Twitter. Meanwhile, President Biden has tweeted that the Holocaust happened that Hitler was a demonic figure that political leaders have to reject anti-Semitism. And that quote, silence is complicity.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: And now we're about one week away from announcing the 2022 CNN Hero of the Year who will be chosen by you, our viewers. And to help you choose, we're reintroducing each of our top 10 so you can vote for your favorites. When this top CNN Hero returned home from prison a decade ago, he became a force for good helping to make his community a safer place.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TYRIQUE GLASGOW, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND FOUNDER OF YOUNG CHANCES FOUNDATION: When you run a blog, you're the one who the community people know, it's a dangerous life but it's a normal life.
 
Going to jail really woke me up if our community was going to follow me for some of the negative stuff. I just said, let me see if they're going to follow me so for something positive.
 
You can grab what you want.
 
In 2019, we open up our community engagement center, which used to be a community drug house. But now, it's a safe place for our children.
 
I mean, people here got kids.
 
We provide clothing, food, vegetables, we have hot meals on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
 
More shrimp? One chicken.
 
Giving people what they need not only helps them, it consistently stays safer here.
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
The shootings are down and the hope is up.
 
That's what she's here for.
 
My relationship with the Philadelphia Police Department is cool.
 
Seeing the officers in a different light, it builds trust and it builds confidence.
 
They need to see that all cops aren't bad.
 
It's really about your heart and what you want to do. We're trying to create a safe haven and environment for the whole neighborhood.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Go to CNNHeroes.com right now to vote for Tyrique for CNN Hero of the Year or any of your favorite top 10 heroes. Remember, you can vote up to 10 times a day, every day until December 6th, much more in the CNN NEWSROOM straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)