Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Columbus, Ohio seeing Largest Measles Outbreak in 20 Years; Ukraine: Russia Launches "Massive Missile Attack"; Huge Blaze at Casino Complex kills at least 19 People; Iranian Chess Player Participates in Tournament without Hijab; Dozens of Stories Emerge about People Helping Each Other. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired December 29, 2022 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN HOST: Hello and welcome to CNN "Newsroom". I'm Bianca Nobilo in London sitting in for Max Foster. Just ahead, Ukraine says Russia has fired dozens of missiles across Ukraine will be live in Kyiv.
 
Then the European Union is looking at potential joint measures to deal with the rise of COVID cases in China as the United States imposes new restrictions on travelers from China. And Benjamin Netanyahu is returning to power as Israeli Prime Minister with the support of several right wing figures. So we'll discuss his government's first priorities.
 
Just days after Vladimir Putin suggested he was open to peace negotiations. Ukraine says Russia launched one of its biggest missile attacks since the start of this war. Air raid sirens rang out nationwide followed by an aerial bombardment stretching from the Western City of Lviv to the capital City of Kyiv to Kharkiv in the North and Odesa in the South.
 
The Ukrainian Air Force says Russia fired 69 missiles across the country but as that most of them was shut down. Ukrainian Foreign Minister called the latest wave of strikes, senseless barbarism, and he said neutrality equals complicity. CNN's Ben Wedeman is in the Capitol and joins us now live. Ben, what are you learning about the extent of the damage in Kyiv and across the country?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: When Kyiv whereas East of the Capitol where this happened. What do we understand from the Mayor of Kyiv visited 16 missiles were fired at the Capitol? All of them were intercepted, but when being intercepted debris of the missile fell to the ground missiles fell to the ground.
 
I'm stepping out of the way so you can get a better look in this location. The debris fell right next to that house right in front of us. Inside was a 14 year old girl who was injured her mother as well. Her mother we understand is currently in surgery, and a man next door. In fact, we spoke to the girl's grandmother who was at work.
 
She told her that they heard the girl called in a state of complete hysteria. She was caught under the rubble and it was only after a little while that rescue crews came to take care of her mother is still in surgery. However, now there was another location in Kyiv, where a home was hit by falling debris.
 
In that instance, there were two men in the house, an elderly father and his adult son they miraculously escaped, just with scratches. Now, this is what we've seen in Kyiv, where 40 percent of the capital's power is now out as a result. The Mayor of the city has called upon people to stock up on water to charge their cell phones as if possible, because it's not clear when the power will be restored.
 
In the Western City of Lviv, however, 90 percent of the power is completely out in Kharkiv in the Eastern part of the country. It says Ukraine second largest city there for missiles actually hit their targets described as energy infrastructure. And it does appear that as we're coming up to the new year, it that the Russians are trying once more to knock out the energy infrastructure so that this city, this country is left marking the New Year in the dark and in the cold, Julia.
 
NOBILO: And then Russia is struggling on the battlefield. And now we see this barrage of missile strikes, which as you mentioned 40 percent in Kyiv 90 percent in Lviv, has severely impair the energy infrastructure further. What do you think the strategic impact of these strikes is going to be?
 
WEDEMAN: Well, what we've seen is as the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces here said 69 missiles were fired, in addition to drones, 54 of them were knocked out. So it's not clear the longer term impact this is going to be. But it's clear that the Russians having failed on the battlefield in so many places are turning their military firepower to really take just cripple the country, cripple its ability not only to resist the Russians, but also to sort of cripple the morale of the country which after 10 months of war is amazingly high because they've managed to get this far.
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
WEDEMAN: So militarily, it's hard to say how it's going to impact. But certainly, it does show that the Russians have, to a large extent, given up on trying to defeat Ukraine militarily. And it's just trying to destroy the country's ability to function, but it appears that's not working either.
 
NOBILO: Ben Wedeman, live for us in Kyiv, thank you. As China deals with its biggest outbreak of COVID to date, the rest of the world is reacting. Italian officials say half of the passengers on a pair of flights from China to Milan tested positive for COVID on Monday.
 
Italy's since ordered testing for all passages from China. On Wednesday, the U.S. ordered all passengers from China to have a negative COVID test before coming to United States. European Union health security leaders are meeting to discuss whether to coordinate a response.
 
And Paula Hancocks is following all of these developments from Seoul. Paula, China's reopening, and this surge of COVID cases is once again highlighting these national divides when it comes to public health security. What further restrictions do you think we can expect from the international community in response?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bianca, we know that there's a number of health officials in different countries around the world that are currently considering whether or not they should be adding their names to the list of those that are putting these health restrictions and entry restrictions on travelers from China.
 
These are the sorts of restrictions requiring a test result 48 hours before going to the United States. For example, similar things in Japan, India, Taiwan, Italy, these are the sorts of restrictions that have been lifted all around the world as people start to live with COVID and start to get back to some sense of normality.
 
But we're seeing once again, that they are being reintroduced, and that the fact is many of these countries are concerned that this explosion of COVID cases within China at this point is already moving beyond its poor, its borders.
 
You did mention there, Bianca the fact that in Italy, the Lombardy region, the fact that almost 50 percent of the arrivals from China to Milan airports work COVID positive. And this is what countries around the world are trying to grapple with at this point and epidemiologists also many of them pointing out that it's not going to stop the spread.
 
But certainly many countries are deciding that this is the way to go. We already heard a response from Beijing. And this was just on reports that the U.S. was going to be one of those adding its restrictions to travelers from China, saying all parties need to work together scientifically against the epidemic, to ensure the safe movement of people between countries.
 
Now, of course, the irony is not lost on anybody that the China has had the most among the most stringent and long lasting restrictions when it comes to zero COVID policy. And certainly this is one of the most significant moves when it comes to dismantling that zero COVID policy. But the fact that has been done so abruptly concerns, many countries around the world and the fact that there is a limited amount of data that is coming out from China.
 
Beijing has said they are no longer going to have the daily reporting of COVID cases, they've redefined what they consider to be a COVID death for example. So those kinds of figures are not readily available. So this is what countries are concerned about.
 
Could there be potentially as U.S. officials have told CNN, their concern is the potential for new variants that come out of China. That could be crossing into their borders, and they want to make sure that they are able to detect these potential variants. And also to make sure that they can react quickly against them.
 
Now, one thing I should point out is that one global virus database GS 8 has said that China has increased the amount of information that they are uploading to this system. And as of now, it does appear that the genome sequencing is very much in keeping with the virus that is circulating around the world and has been since July, Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Paula Hancocks in Seoul thank you so much. A huge Blaze in gold at Casino complex in Cambodia killing at least 19 people, at least 70 people was injured on Wednesday's fire at the Grand Diamond City Hotel. Rescue workers are searching for victims trapped in the building, and dozens of people are still missing. The Casino complex is located in a city near Cambodia's border with Thailand.
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
NOBILO: About 700 Thai citizens were sent to hospitals in Thailand. Journalist Manisha Tank joins us now from Singapore with the latest developments. Manisha, are you learning any more from the authorities about the circumstances which led to this fire, and of course, the consequences?
 
MANISHA TANK, JOURNALIST: Bianca, we do know from initial reports from rescue teams that this fire likely started at one of the restaurants on the lower level of the building. And in fact, it's worth pointing out that one of the things that's hindered the response and getting all of this under control has been the fact that they've reported the elevated nature of some of the floors and also the fact that some of the corridors are really narrow.
 
So the logistics around this building have really inhibited a rescue effort, but also may have caused for this fire to just rip through it. They think it started low and then went upwards. Also rescue teams initially pointing to the fact that that's exactly what people in the building, the guests may have thought moving upwards to higher floors thinking that a rescue crane might be deployed to get them out of there. But that ended up not being the case, it was not something that Cambodian rescue teams had access to.
 
On the rescue, this has been a combined effort between the Thais and also the Cambodians, because this is actually a Casino complex that is really close to the Thai border. Now most forms of gambling are actually illegal in Thailand. So you see these groups of people, friends get together and they might cross the border for a mini holiday to go and, you know, try their luck at these Casino resorts.
 
Obviously, this had turned into an absolute nightmare for the people who've been caught up in this. We know and you said that the death toll they're running at 19. But the real fear over the coming days as these rescue teams start making their way through the charred remains of this building of this complex will be that people would have been trapped in their rooms and even if the fire didn't get to those rooms, the smoke may well have done.
 
We know that tens of people have died as a result of smoke inhalation. This is the silent and deadly killer in situations like this. So we're going to be watching the situation very closely, but for now we understand that the teams have for the night suspended their rescue efforts, Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Manisha thank you so much for joining us and for giving us the update. Catholic leaders around the world as well as Pope Francis are urging the faithful to pray for Pope Emeritus Benedict. He remains in serious but stable condition according to Italian media.
 
The Vatican says doctors are keeping a close eye on the 95 year old Former Pope. He shocked the world by stepping down nearly 10 years ago, citing advanced age and paving the way for Pope Francis's election. Delia Gallagher joins us now from Vatican City with the latest on the ailing Former Pope's health. Delia, what can you tell us about the mood where you are as the faithful await further updates about Pope Emeritus Benedict?
 
DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, Bianca, we've been down here now for a couple of hours. And most of the people here who are just here for Christmas, obviously visiting have heard the news. They're asking us for updates, they along with the rest of the world waiting for any updates.
 
We do hope to have something from the Vatican today on the Pope Emeritus's condition. What we know is just what we heard yesterday that his health situation has deteriorated because of old age they say. Let me just give you an idea of where he is right now.
 
This is St. Peter's Basilica behind me behind that is the Vatican gardens just up a small hill is the Pope Emeritus's home which they call a monastery. It's a small home that he has been living in for the past almost 10 years now since he resigned and where the Vatican tells us he is surrounded by his doctors. And again we refer to the statement from yesterday that said he his health has deteriorated because of old age he is 95 years old.
 
Anyone who has taken care of an elderly person knows that there can be a decline which can be fast or slow. So at the moment we are standing by for any further updates on his health. Of course we know that Pope Francis visited him yesterday he asked for prayers for the Pope Emeritus. And Francis indeed was the one who first gave the news that the Pope was very ill, Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Delia Gallagher in Vatican City. Thank you so much. You're watching CNN "Newsroom". We'll be right back after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
NOBILO: Israel is on the verge of getting a new government that can act that is confirming the cabinet and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu marking his amazing return to power. To reach a majority Mr. Netanyahu cemented alliances with hard right parties opposed Palestinian statehood is far right allies are aiming to expand settlements in the West Bank. About 2000 protesters gathered outside the Knesset.
 
More than 100 former Israeli diplomats warned that the new government will seriously damage Israeli Foreign Relations. Elliott Gotkine has watching all of this unfolds for us from Jerusalem. Elliott, tell us more about what we can expect to be the priorities of the new government and how concerned citizens should be about expansion stability in the West Bank. ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN JOURNALIST: So Bianca, I should say we are now we think about half an hour away until Benjamin Netanyahu is sworn in for this record sick time as Prime Minister. They outlined the government's agenda yesterday and Netanyahu focused on a few of these measures that his government is planning to push ahead with once it is installed. And they include preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon, strengthening Israel's defense, boosting public transport, lowering house prices.
 
And also signing more peace agreements with other countries in the Arab world, adding to those Abraham Accords in Israel signed with the United Arab Emirates, Morocco and Bahrain. One thing he didn't mention in his speech today, which was punctuate, which was punctured by both applause and heckles and at least five members of the Knesset were ejected for their heckling. But one thing he didn't focus on today was this plan to boost settlement building in the West Bank.
 
But that wasn't the agenda that was outlined yesterday in which they talked about developing different parts of the country and that, in their words, includes the West Bank. And of course, a settlement construction or unoccupied land is considered illegal under international law. And that's something that will be of concern, both to the Biden Administration and to Israel's other international partners, as well, as I mentioned, some of the protests that we've seen, as you say, about 2000 people.
 
They're not just concerned about things like settlement building. They're also concerned about the potential for discrimination by this government, particularly members of minority communities like the LGBTQ community, or Arab citizens of Israel, mainly because the some members of Netanyahu's new government espouse or have espoused in the past. Racist views against Arabs and or homophobic views against members of the LGBTQ community, as well.
 
But Netanyahu has been adamant to say, look, the buck stops with me, no one no matter what community they are from? Is going to face discrimination under his government and we were just having a chat with us ambassador just a short while ago and he reiterated what we heard from Secretary of State Antony Blinken.
 
But look, let's just wait and see what happens. This government, at least as far as the Biden Administration is concerned will be judged on its actions rather than the identities and the personalities of those people in it, Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Elliott Gotkine thank you so much for sharing your insights. And as Elliot said, we are awaiting the outcome of that vote, which is a fait accompli in the next half hour or so as protests continue. On the week of anti-government protests in Iran, we continue to see acts of public defiance by Iranian sportswomen.
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
NOBILO: Iranian Chess player Sara Khadem is just the latest to compete in an international tournament without wearing the mandatory hijab. She appeared at the World rapid Chess tournament in Almaty, Kazakhstan this week and while there was no comment from her on social media.
 
Her gesture is widely interpreted as a show of support for the demonstrations against the regime in Iran. Sometimes the worst situations do bring out the best in people. We'll take you to Buffalo, New York where the community showed its true strength generosity.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: Buffalo, New York is finally able to dig out after the deadly blizzard that pounded the city. Officials say that the storm claimed at least 37 lives. The ban on driving has now been lifted and major highways have reopened. While city leaders are being criticized for their response citizens are being hailed for their generosity. Miguel Marquez reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Buffalo digging out, officials here responding to criticism they should have done more.
 
MARK POLONCARZ, ERIE COUNTY EXECUTIVE: 35 mile per hour wind gusts for three hours straight with less than a quarter mile visibility. This was an extreme Blizzard maybe the Category 5 of Blizzards.
 
MARQUEZ (voice over): Casey MacCarone's mother, Monique Alexander died in the storm on Christmas Eve. The Buffalo native who had been through many snowstorms here thought this one was the same.
 
CASEY MACCARONE, MOTHER DIED IN STORM: We were waiting for her to come home. I knew something was wrong right away though.
 
MARQUEZ (voice over): A simple decision on any other day, life threatening in this storm.
 
MACCARONE: My kids, they lost their grandmother and that was her most important role in her life was being a good grandmother. And now they just have memories.
 
MARQUEZ (voice over): In Erie County alone at least 37 killed in extreme weather in an area accustomed to major snowstorms. For every person who died dozens of stories of those who stepped up and say friends, neighbors, even strangers.
 
CRAIG ELSTON, OWNER, C&amp;C CUTZ BABERSHOP (ph): This is something to always do. I hope everybody is people out there dying and people freezing to death in a car.
 
MARQUEZ (voice over): Craig Elson was open for business when the extreme conditions started up.
 
ELSTON: Well, if you need shelter, from the Southern or Southern Fillmore get warm heat and electricity.
 
MARQUEZ (voice over): He ended up hosting up to 40 people over two days at his C&amp;C Cutz barbershop. ELSTON: We got to come together and a lot of times people are selfish. So at that moment, I was just thinking about clearly not all this stuff, right? I was just thinking about just keeping people warm. It was really that simple.
 
MARQUEZ (voice over): Then there was Sha'kyra Aughtry who heard a man she didn't know screaming for help.
 
SHA'KYRA AUGHTRY, HELPED SAVE FROSTBITTEN MAN IN BUFFALO: His hands had big ice balls on it and what didn't have those ice balls on his hand. We brought him in my house
 
MARQUEZ (voice over): Joe White, who is developmentally disabled, lost in whiteout conditions. Aughtry didn't know him. But she saved him.
 
AUGHTRY (voice over): We going to get some help. He has gangrene on his hands have gone he's going to lose his finger.
 
MARQUEZ (voice over): The airport is now reopens as Buffalo comes to grips with a brutal year.
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
POLONCARZ: The tragic stories the losses of individuals in our community and it is heartbreaking it's a gut punch. 2022 has been a horrible year for our community in so many different ways. I can't wait till 2023 starts.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARQUEZ: What is incredible and talking to these families of victims who died in this storm? And people, who survived the storm and wrote it out is just how quickly the conditions change, just how bad it was? And just how rapidly their loved ones were lost in the storm and how quickly people could have died if they were out in it for any period of time?
 
To concerns for authorities right now moving snow as quickly as possible now out of the drains, especially throughout the city, because they're concerned about higher temperatures in the days ahead. And tons of melt water possibly creating some flooding. And then going house to house and figuring out if anyone else is in need or anyone else has expired, back to you.
 
NOBILO: Miguel Marquez for us. Well, thank you so much for joining me here on "CNN Newsroom". For now it is back to CNN "This Morning".
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN HOST: Another Southwest Airlines Executive is apologizing "This Morning" is the mass cancellations stretch into its eighth day. Southwest has canceled at least 2300 flights today as the fallout is continuing. Everyday airline cancelled thousands of flights over the holiday season at the last minute. As they are facing congressional scrutiny, Southwest Executives are now vowing to make amends with travelers. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RYAN GREEN, CHIEF COMMERCIAL OFFICER OF SOUTHWEST AIRLINES: My personal apology is the first step of making things right after many plans changed and experiences fell short of your expectations of us. We're continuing to work to make this up to you. And you'll hear more about that soon.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: For perspective on all of this is joining us now is Elaine Chao, the Former Transportation Secretary during the Trump Administration and also the labor secretary under George W. Bush. Good morning Ms. Secretary and thank you for joining us on this. I wonder in your view how Southwest can make this right?
 
ELAINE CHAO, FORMER TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: It's going to take them a very long time. What a nightmare! What a complete mess! They obviously would wish this would never have happened as everyone would and we've got passengers now who had their holidays ruined.
 <br>[08:30:00]