Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Vladimir Putin Declares Martial Law to Four Ukrainian Cities; Kherson Residents Evacuated; Ukrainians Facing Blackouts; Liz Truss Face Difficulty Gaining Trust; U.S. to Withdraw Another 15 Million Barrels of Oil from SPR; Human Rights Groups All Eyes on Elnaz Rekabi. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired October 20, 2022 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead here on CNN Newsroom, Russia declares martial law across four Ukrainian regions that Moscow claims as its own. We have the latest on Vladimir Putin's aggressive new move and what it means for his war in Ukraine.
 
Plus.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIZ TRUSS, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER:  Great interest rates are rising across the world and the economic conditions have worsened, and we are being -- (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Chaos in the British Parliament as British Prime Minister Liz Truss faces another blow. We will have the latest on the leader's rocky premiership from 10 Downing Street.
 
And the Iranian rock climber who competed abroad without her hijab gets a hero's welcome back in Tehran, and now there are fears for her.
 
UNKNOWN:  Live from CNN center, this is CNN Newsroom with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH:  It is 10 o'clock in the morning in four occupied regions of Ukraine where Vladimir Putin has declared martial law in what the U.S. describes as a desperate move to assert his power. This comes despite the fact that Russia does not have full control over those areas. 
 
Ukraine's foreign minister blasted Russia's declaration and accused the Kremlin of plans to, quote, "legalize looting, forced deportations, and mobilization." A Russian official says there are no plans to evacuate residents in the Donetsk, Luhansk, or Zaporizhzhia regions. But in Kherson, Russian installed leaders there have ramped up the relocation of as many as 60,000 people. Putin is also tightening security across those annexed regions and
 
 across Russia. He is part of what he had to say on Wednesday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  In this regard, let me remind you that in the Donetsk people's republic, the Luhansk people's republic, as well as in the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions, martial law was in effect before joining Russia. Now we need to formalize this regime within the framework of Russian legislation. Therefore, I signed a decree on the introduction of martial law.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  About 40 percent of Ukraine's power generating ability has now been damaged by ongoing Russian airstrikes. Ukrainian officials say energy infrastructure and an industrial area were seriously damaged by overnight attacks in central Ukraine. To conserve what electricity there is, Ukraine has imposed nationwide restrictions on usage today until 11 p.m. tonight local time. Internet connectivity has dropped way off. The government is asking Ukrainians to keep their electrical consumption to a minimum or risk more frequent blackouts. 
 
Ukraine's president says three Ukrainian energy facilities were destroyed in the past 24 hours as Russia continues targeting critical infrastructure.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator):  We will do everything possible to restore the normal energy capabilities of our country, but it takes time, and this requires our joint efforts. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Mr. Zelenskyy has been holding urgent meetings to come up with the contingency plans to keep the energy grid from breaking down and to avoid a nationwide blackout if possible.
 
And we have correspondence covering all of this from all around the world. CNN's Nic Robertson is in Kyiv. Fred Pleitgen is in Bakhmut in Ukraine, and Clare Sebastian is in London for us. 
 
First, we go to Kherson, the first major city that Ukraine lost in the early days of the war. One Russian official said it's a place that would be in Russia's hands forever. But now Moscow's message to Hassan's residents has changed to, you need to leave. 
 
Nic Robertson has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Ukrainian civilians now under Russian martial law in Kherson City lined up to be evacuated potentially to Russia. Russian imposed officials in illegally annexed Kherson have told them it's not safe to stay.
 <br>[03:05:01]
 
Up to 60,000 forced out. Boats used to ferry them away from the front line and their homes to an uncertain future. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  I bought extra clothes for my dog, my other half. My antidepressant.
 
ROBERTSON:  Ukrainian officials have accused Russia of whipping up hysteria, compelling people to leave. Residents receive text messages Wednesday morning from the pro-Russian administration. 
 
Dear residents, it read, evacuate immediately. There will be shelling of residential areas by the armed forces of Ukraine. The punishment under martial law for failing to comply unknown, the threat clear. 
 
KIRILL STREMOUSOV, RUSSIAN-INSTALLED DEPUTY GOVERNOR OF KHERSON REGION (through translator):  I ask you to take my words seriously and to understand them as meaning, as prompt and evacuation as possible.
 
ROBERTSON:  Vladimir Putin is tightening his grip, not just on Kherson, but Donetsk, Luhansk, and Zaporizhzhia, the four territories he illegally annexed last month, all put under military command. 
 
Ukrainian forces have been advancing through several parts of the Kherson region in recent weeks, capturing villages and farmlands along the western banker of the Dnipro River. The Kremlin's new commander for Ukraine said Tuesday that the situation in Kherson was far from simple and implicitly hinted his forces may withdraw. 
 
SERGEI SUROVIKIN, COMMANDER OF RUSSIAN OPERATION IN UKRAINE (through translator):  Our further plans and actions regarding the city of Kherson will depend on the unfolding military and tactical situation on the ground. I repeat, it is already very difficult today.
 
ROBERTSON:  Across the rest of Ukraine, Putin's forces kept up their barrage on power stations, and despite at least four cruise missiles and 10 drones shot down by Ukrainian forces, another three electricity generating plants hit. More Ukrainians denied power and water.
 
Amid those dwindling supplies, President Zelensky calling a crisis meeting to head off a nationwide blackout, vowing to keep critical infrastructure up and running.
 
In this war, Putin is turning out the lights, but it is Ukraine that's taking the key commodity territory. Putin's martial law officials here say, an indication of just how much he is losing control. 
 
Nick Robertson, CNN, Kyiv, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHURCH:  And CNN's Clare Sabastian is following developments for us from London. She joins us now. Good morning to you, Clare. 
 
So, what is the latest on the impact of Putin's declaration of martial law in those four illegally annexed Ukrainian regions? 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Rosemary, I think once you get past the surreal spectacle of declaring martial law on what is someone else's sovereign territory, a territory where your side is actually losing ground. It doesn't really change much on the day-to- day for the people living there. 
 
They are already living in a war zone and many of the rules that are enshrined in Russia's law on martial law are already in place. We know that Ukraine has accused Russia, for example, of already mobilizing Ukrainian citizens in these territories.
 
We know that civilians are being moved. Ukraine says sometimes against their will. Seizure of property, things like that all are happening. So, while this is a sort of move by Putin to try to do through what he sees as legal means, what he can't do military, it doesn't change life really for the people living there.
 
I think, perhaps more impactful is what is happening in Russia. The announcement of what looks like a martial law light in those regions bordering Ukraine. Freedom of movement restricted, things like that. That is essentially amounting to the slow creep of authoritarianism accelerating. 
 
We've seen repression on things like free speech, free media mounting throughout this conflict in Russia, this likely to accelerate that. And very concerning to Russians because of course the decree on martial law leaves itself open to potential expansion in the future, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH:  And Clare, Putin has been targeting power stations across Ukraine, leaving citizens with either no power or minimal electricity with restrictions needing to be put in place. So, what were you learning about this?
 
SEBASTIAN:  Yes, this is clearly the new tactic by the Russian president. In fact, his new commander on the battlefield Sergei Surovikin said in his first televised interview this week that the aim was not to rapidly gain new territory, but to sort of grind down the enemy, and that is what they are doing now with the power stations.
 <br>[03:09:55]
 
About 40 percent of Ukraine's electricity generation generating capability is now offline. This is now having a real impact on people. They have been told to expect outages both scheduled and emergency today. President Zelenskyy has told people to not use unnecessary appliances. And is trying to stave off a nationwide blackout. 
 
So, clearly, Ukraine is trying to repair these specificities, but they cannot do it fast enough to prevent disruption. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH:  All right, Clare Sebastian joining us live from London. Many thanks. 
 
Russian forces are reported to be making some progress in their assault on one eastern Ukrainian city.
 
CNN's Frederik Pleitgen traveled there for a rare and harrowing look at the front lines. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  So, we're taking cover here because we just had some incoming artillery fire. We're going to wait and hope that there's not any hits anywhere close to us.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  And we'll have more of Fred's report from eastern Ukraine just ahead. 
 
Well, how much longer can Liz Truss hang on. She was already in danger of becoming Britain's shortest serving leader when her cabinet took yet another hit. 
 
Home Secretary Suella Braverman abruptly announced she's stepping down for sending an official document from her personal e-mail, but her resignation letter was filled with thinly veiled swipes aimed right at the prime minister. 
 
Meanwhile, Ms. Truss was forced to defend her record during a bruising session of the weekly prime minister's questions. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUSS:  I'm a fighter. I'm not a quitter.
 
(CROWD BOOING)
 
TRUSS:  We have delivered on the energy price guarantee. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Yes.
 
TRUSS:  We have. We've delivered on the energy price guarantee. We've delivered on national insurance. We are going to deliver to stop the militant trade unions disrupting our railways. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And the political turmoil comes as the U.K.'s annual rate of inflation returned to a 40-year high with prices rising above 10 percent in September.
 
CNN's Scott McLean is live in London. He joins us now. Good to see you, Scott. 
 
So, more turmoil for the fledgling government of Liz Truss with the yet another resignation and more U-turns putting her leadership in jeopardy. What's the latest on all of this?
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  You know, Rosemary, yesterday when the day began, we figured that prime minister's questions and questions from the opposition and from her own party would certainly be the main event and the main test of Liz Truss's control of her own government. But then the drama just kept on coming. 
 
Shortly after that performance and prime minister's questions, Liz Truss faced the resignation of her home secretary, one of the main cabinet offices in this country. And Suella Braverman as you mentioned ostensibly, this was over an e-mail issue, a rather minor issue it seems like, but she also took a swipe at Liz Truss's government on the way out, questioning its commitments to campaign promises like the one to lower the overall rate of immigration. 
 
And then she took, took another, you called it thinly veiled. It seems not veiled at all to me, swipe at Liz Truss. Saying that -- I'll read you part of it. The business of government relies upon people accepting responsibility for their mistakes, pretending we haven't made mistakes, carrying on as if everyone can't see that we've made them, and hoping that things will magically come right is not serious politics. I've made a mistake. I accept responsibility. I resign. 
 
Now, it's interesting to know that the replacement for Suella Braverman that was chosen, Grant Shapps is not a supporter of Liz Truss, at least he didn't support her during the leadership race. He, just like the new chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, supported her opponent, Rishi Sunak who comes from the more moderate wing of the party.
 
But the chaos didn't even end there. You also had literally chaotic scenes playing out inside of parliament. I should mention voting in this country takes place, it's called division. M.P.s actually go into separate lobbies if they want to vote for or against a piece of legislation. 
 
And yesterday, there was a piece of labor legislation on keeping in place the nationwide ban on fracking. And there were plenty of conservative M.P.s who reportedly would've liked to vote with the opposition Labour Party. They were told by their own government though, that they needed to
 
 vote with the government or risk being booted out from the party. 
 
And so, the scenes that played out outside of the no lobby, as they call it, were pretty remarkable. Here's how one Labour M.P. describe them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS BRYANT, BRITISH LABOUR PARTY M.P.:  Madame Deputy Speaker, I -- I would urge you to launch an investigation into the scenes outside the entrance to the no lobby earlier. As you know, members are expected to be able to vote without fear or favor. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Yes. 
 
BRYANT:  And the behavior code, which is agreed by the whole of the house, says that there shall never be bullying or harassment of members. UNKNOWN:  Yes.
 
UNKNOWN:  Yes.
 
UNKNOWN:  Yes, yes. 
 <br>[03:15:02]
 
BRYANT:  I saw -- I saw members being physically manhandled into another lobby.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCLEAN:  Physically manhandled, Rosemary. Afterwards, a conservative M.P. one that was already openly critical of Liz Truss's government did not try to hide his anger at the situation, saying that the whole scene was inexcusable and says there's no way that Liz Truss can come back from the scene that he called an absolute disgrace.
 
I should also mention that there were dozens of conservative M.P.s who they didn't vote with the opposition party, but they didn't vote at all. And now we're learning through the British Press Association that Downing Street says that those M.P.'s will be spoken by the whips, the M.P.s who ensure that everyone votes with the government. And if they don't have a good excuse for not voting at all, well they will be disciplined.
 
So, the question is, again, Rosemary, is come today, can Liz Truss regain control of her government? 
 
CHURCH:  Yes, it is the critical question. Scott McLean joining us live from London. Many thanks. 
 
And last hour, I spoke with former Chatham House Director Robin Niblett, and asked how can the prime minister survive this open revolt? Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBIN NIBLETT, FORMER DIRECTOR, CHATHAM HOUSE:  Frankly, I don't think I'll be original in saying, that I think it's very difficult for her to survive this. Obviously, your viewers know very well that this comes in the wake of a disastrous so-called mini budget that has shredded the reputation of the conservative Party for sound and competent financial management, one of their absolute principle calling cards over the Labour Party, some humiliating U-turns. 
 
And most obviously, Liz Truss being forced to sack her former chancellor, Kwasi Kwarteng for doing what he and she both fundamentally agreed they needed to do to drive growth. 
 
I think the problem she has right now is a deeper one, is that in her desperate push to still have a growth strategy in place, she looks like she's going to break some manifesto commitments and she'll be making -- breaking these manifesto commitments without having been elected herself by the people, if you want to put it that way, to be a prime minister. 
 
And in particular, if I can mention this one, the reason Suella Braverman issue became so toxic was the desire to raise immigration, raise levels of immigration in the U.K. to try to spur growth. This was precisely what Brexit was about.
 
Brexit was so that the U.K. could reduce levels of immigration and not -- do a race to the bottom in the pursuit of fake growth. So, she's in an incredibly difficult position. 
 
CHURCH:  Yes, so let's focus on that scathing letter of resignation from home secretaries Suella Braverman where she says, pretending we haven't made mistakes, carrying on as if everyone can't see that we have made them and hoping that things will magically come right is not to is politics. It is obvious to everyone that we are going through a tumultuous time. I have concerns about the direction of this government.
 
So, how damaging is this for Truss, and will there be more resignations like this do you think? 
 
NIBLETT:  Well, I'm not sure there'll be more resignations immediately today because I think the resignation, many conservative M.P.s are focused on is that of the prime minister. So, I don't think others are going to be jumping straight away, especially if you've got somebody like Grant Shapps as mentioned in your report, bringing to replace Suella Braverman, not least as he was somebody who was obviously seen as a critic of Liz Truss. 
 
I think the problem here is that Suella Braverman is an absolute torch bearer, standard bearer for the very euro skeptic wing of the party, the so-called European Research Group, which Liz Truss herself, has been a leading member of, but you know, she's been seen as having the critics on the softer side of the party, should we say, the Jeremy Hunt side, the Rishi Sunak side. 
 
She'd now made a absolutely, you know, fervent enemy, if you want to call it, of somebody on the other side of the party. So, she's losing both wings simultaneously.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Wall Street snapped its two-day winning streak despite more strong corporate earnings.
 
Procter and Gamble beat estimates and United Airlines jumped 5 percent on strong quarterly results, but the Dow dropped 100 points or a third of a percent on the day. The NASDAQ closed 92 points lower and nearly 1 percent, and the S&amp;P 500 lost 25 points, three quarters of a percent. 
 
On Wednesday, President Biden laid out plans to lower energy prices for Americans, which includes another push for oil companies to boost production. This move to lower gas prices comes as early voting gets underway in some states less than three weeks ahead of the midterms. [03:20:03]
 
Biden also announced the release of another 15 million barrels from the nation's oil stockpile beginning in December. That's in addition to the 165 million barrels of crude oil that's been put under contracts since this past spring, and that leaves these strategic reserves at a 38 year low.
 
On Wednesday, Mr. Biden called the move a response to OPEC's production cuts. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:  With my announcement today, we're going to continue to stabilize markets and decrease the prices at a time when the actions of other countries have caused such volatility. 
 
And I've told my team behind me here to be prepared to look further, look for further releases of the months have had if needed. We're calling it a ready and release plan. This allows us to move quickly to prevent oil price spikes, and respond to international events. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And still to come here on CNN Newsroom, an Iranian rock climber is in the spotlight after competing without a hijab. And the International Olympic Committee is seeking assurances she will be safe now that she's back home. 
 
Plus, the Iranian regime's brutal playbook for those who dare to disagree is on full display as anti-government protests continue across the country. 
 
We're back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Iranian rock climber Elnaz Rekabi met with the country sports minister Wednesday after returning from a tournament in Seoul where she competed without her head scarf. 
 
CNN's Nada Bashir is following all the developments for us. She joins us live from London. Good to see you, Nada. 
 
So, what more are you learning about this meeting between Elnaz Rekabi and Iran sports minister?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER:  Well, Rosemary, there had been real concern over the potential repercussions that Elnaz Rekabi may have faced upon her return to Iran from South Korea, where of course, as you laid out there, she competed and was filmed competing without wearing her mandatory hijab. 
 
It is, of course, mandated by the Iranian regime for women in the country, but also those working overseas representing the country, particularly sports women. But now of course we have seen those images from state media of Elnaz Rekabi meeting with the country's sports minister, according to state media, he expressed his support for Rekabi and all other Iranian athletes, and also encouraged her to continue pursuing her career.
 
So, it's not the harsh penalty that perhaps we may have been expecting, but we have also heard from Rekabi over the last 48 hours or so issuing both an apology and also saying that she had competed with her hair uncovered accidentally. 
 <br>[00:04:54]
 
But in response to all that we've been seeing in Iran, we have had concerns being raised by human rights organizations stating that she may very well be speaking under duress and could certainly still be facing pressure from the Iranian regime. Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR (voice-over):  A hero's welcome amid a storm of controversy. Elnaz Rekabi's return to Tehran may have drawn crowds of supporters, but it was her appearance without a hijab or head covering at a climbing competition in South Korea, which drew the spotlight. 
 
ELNAZ REKABI, IRANIAN ROCK CLIMBER (through translator):  This situation happened entirely accidentally. The struggle that I had with wearing my shoes and preparing my gear made me forget about the proper hijab that I should have had. I apologize to the people of Iran and for the turbulence and worry that I created for them.
 
BASHIR:  The pro athlete's words reiterating an earlier apology shared on her Instagram page. Though some human rights organizations have expressed concern that Rekabi may have been speaking under duress and could still face repercussions at home.
 
The International Federation of Sport Climbing, however says it has received clear assurances that Rekabi will not suffer any consequences and will continue to train and compete. 
 
Rekabi's return from Seoul comes amid ongoing protests across the country. Sparked by the death of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini who died in the custody of Iran's notorious morality police after she was detained for allegedly wearing her hijab incorrectly. 
 
Women and young girls have been openly defying the regime's conservative dress code. The Iranian rock climber has so far refrained from publicly voicing her support for the movement, but she has become yet another symbol of defiance for those protesting for change, prompting fears that Rekabi could be used by the regime to set an example to other women. 
 
MAHMOOD REZA AMIRY-MOGHADDAM, DIRECTOR, IRAN HUMAN RIGHTS:  They just can't let it go unpunished because they know how crucial it is to maintain this barrier of fear among people.
 
BASHIR:  While the Iranian authorities have claimed the reports of Rekabi's impending arrest are, quote, "fake news," there continues to be concern over her future and her safety in Iran. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR (on camera):  And look, Rosemary, this is all taking place of course, amid those ongoing protests we are seeing across the country, women and girls very much at the forefront of this movement. We've seen many publicly removing their mandatory hijabs, throwing their head scarfs to bonfires, even cutting their hair in a show of defiance against the regime. Severe restrictions on women's rights. 
 
And while Elnaz Rekabi hasn't spoken out publicly on this matter and could very well be facing the pressure of the regime, she's certainly become a symbol of defiance for many women across the country. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH:  She must certainly has. Nada Bashir, many thanks for that live report from London. I appreciate it. 
 
Well, some prominent Iranian sports figures want the country banned from the upcoming football World Cup over Tehran's brutal crackdown on anti-government protestors.
 
In a letter to FIFA, they wrote Iran's brutality and belligerence towards its own people has reached a tipping point, demanding an unequivocal and firm disassociation from the footballing and sports world. Football, which should be a safe place for everyone, is not a safe space for women or even men. 
 
Well, meantime, some of the protestors are learning firsthand defying the Iranian regime comes with dire consequences.
 
We get more from CNN's Jomana Karadsheh. And we should note we're not identifying the protestors in her report because of safety concerns, and it does contain some disturbing images.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The desperate struggle to break free tells of the cruelty that awaits. It's not just to escape, it's to survive to stay alive. So many Iranians know all too well the path to which this will lead. A hell on earth for those who dare to dissent. 
 
It's the repressive regime's playbook tried and tested time and time again.
 
This 29-year-old protester says he was detained this month and endured four days of torture by Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps.
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  Somebody started kicking, punching our stomach area, putting our heads in buckets of water so we couldn't breathe and beating us with a belt, hose, and electric shock. 
 
KARADSHEH:  He claims he was coerced into signing a confession, saying he was paid by the U.S., U.K., and Israeli governments to quote, "create chaos in Iran." He's been left with minor scars that are healing, but what we don't see may never heal. 
 <br>[03:30:00] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  Nowadays, I don't have much sleep. I have nightmares most of the time. In my nightmares I see someone as following me in the dark and I'm alone and no one is helping me. 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  And he says the authorities still stalk him. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  I received a phone call from an unknown number that I'm active on Twitter. He threatened me and my family saying, if you don't stop, they will arrest me. And that I know what's awaiting me. 
 
KARADSHEH:  It's a pattern of oppression that's played out before. In 2019, the world saw how far the state would go to crush those rising up. Farhad (Ph), a father of two tells CNN he watched several of his friends gunned down on the street back then. Weeks later, the authorities came for him.
 
He says he was dragged from his home in the middle of the night and taken to what he describes as a regime torture chamber. For 16 days of horrors and beatings that left him beyond recognition. 
 
KARADSHEH (on camera):  We reviewed some of the horrific photos of Farhad's (Ph) injuries. To protect his identity, we are not showing those images and his scars.
 
He's had several reconstructive surgeries that have patched his jaw back together, but Iranian authorities haven't left him alone. He says they freeze his bank account at times and call threatening to kill his children and rape his wife. 
 
It's all part of the disturbing playbook that several protesters CNN spoke with have experienced firsthand. They're watch through CCTV cameras and by state sponsored hackers online, hunted, tortured, forever stalked and threatened. But that's not stopping the thousands risking it all every day in Iran. 
 
Farhad (Ph) is back out protesting, this time with his children. He knows the cost of defi but it's a price he's willing to pay for their freedom.
 
We asked the Iranian government about these firsthand accounts of arbitrary detention, torture, and harassment of protesters, as well as the widespread violations documented by human rights organizations, but they did not respond to our request for comment. 
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  And still to come, a relentless assault from Russia. CNN travels to the front lines in the east and witnesses what Ukrainian troops are facing.
 
Plus, Israel puts an offer on the table to help Ukraine with its air defenses. But Kyiv is not thrilled. We'll explain why.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Russia's ongoing attacks on Ukraine's civilian infrastructure have now impacted about 40 percent of Ukraine's power generating ability. 
 <br>[03:35:03]
 
To conserve what power there is, all Ukrainians are now under usage restrictions until 11 p.m. local time. On Wednesday, Russian leader Vladimir Putin declared martial law in four Ukrainian regions illegally annexed by Russia just weeks ago. It's worth noting that Russia is not fully in control of those annexed territories.
 
Almost immediately, local Ukrainians were urged to leave some of those Russian held areas in the guise of emergency evacuations. Ukraine accused Russia of inciting hysteria in the population.
 
Ukrainian forces are facing a fierce fight and a relentless Russian attack in one key city in the east. CNN Senior international correspondent Frederik Pleitgen got a firsthand look at what troops are experiencing on the frontlines.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  When entering Bakhmut, the need is for speed. We're driving straight into one of the most dangerous places in war-torn Ukraine with a military combat medic who goes by the call sign Katrusya. Bakhmut is under nearly constant Russian assault.
 
Our car hasn't even come to a full stop when the first shell hits nearby. The medic stops. We need to take cover as best we can. We're waiting here for the shooting to stop. So, we're taking cover here because we just had some incoming artillery fire. We're going to wait and hope that there's not any hits anywhere close to us.
 
(FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
PLEITGEN:  We're at the receding end of a full Russian artillery barrage. This photojournalist, Richard Harlow (Ph) tracks several of the projectiles whizzing close over our heads.
 
Katrusya says Ukrainian troops face this kind of shelling several times a day. 
 
KATRUSYA, COMBAT MEDIC, UKRAINIAN ARMY (through translator):  The artillery attacks fly every day, so it's never quiet here. Other parts of the city take hits many times a day. There are times when several mortars hit within in a minute. 
 
PLEITGEN:  Katrusya's own husband was killed here a month and a half ago. While Ukrainian forces have been gaining ground against the Russians in many places, in Bakhmut, things are different. Kyiv is trying to fortify its positions, but they acknowledge the Russians have more artillery and are using seasoned fighters from the Wagner private military company. 
 
Still, even pinned down with artillery flying overhead, Katrusya says her confidence isn't shaken. 
 
KATRUSYA (through translator):  Absolutely, we will win, but price of victory will be huge. Unfortunately, every day civilians are dying and there are a lot of dead and injured soldiers on every part of the line. 
 
PLEITGEN:  The fighting here has destroyed much of this town and left the few people who remain traumatized.
 
Sergei (Ph) doesn't even take cover anymore. As artillery strikes nearby. I ask him if he's afraid. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  Afraid of what? Everything will be fine, mate. Everything will be fine. 
 
PLEITGEN:  A pause in the shelling gives us a chance to get out of Bakhmut as Ukrainian tanks roll in the other direction trying to defend this key city from Vladimir Putin's forces.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Moscow's rapid conscription of 300,000 Russian citizens to fight in Ukraine appears to be winding down, although no end date has been announced. But even if the Kremlin is ready to claim success, many Russian men are doing whatever they can to avoid being drafted, including leaving the country by the thousands.
 
Ukrainian men inside Russian-held territory are at especially high risk of being drafted into the Russian military. President Zelenskyy had this advice for them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator):  I would like to address our people in the temporarily occupied areas of the southern and eastern Ukraine. In the nearest future, the invaders will try to conscript men into their army just the same as they did in Donetsk and Luhansk. Please avoid this as much as you can. Try to escape the occupied territory. 
 <br>[03:39:58]
 
If you are unable to do this and end up in the Russian military structures, try to lay down your arms and come to the Ukrainian positions as soon as possible. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) CHURCH:  And last hour, I spoke with an activist in Tbilisi, Georgia about Russia's conscription program and what his group has been doing to help Russians avoid -- help Russians avoid the draft.
 
Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GRIGORY SVERDLIN, ACTIVIST:  Well, almost 3,000 people were helped by our organization Go by the Forest, and we advised people not, definitely not to sign summons. And by any means not to go to enlistment offices. The rest depends on unique situation because we help people to leave country legally and illegal as well.
 
We help people to stay low profile inside of the Russia and so on and so forth. So we --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
CHURCH:  Yes, we've certainly been hearing --
 
SVERDLIN:  Yes:
 
CHURCH:  Yes, we've been hearing these stories about Russian men staying off the streets in fear that they will be plucked from those streets and sent to the front line. 
 
So, talk to us about how difficult it's been for you and of course, these men that you've been helping to leave your homeland and your loved ones and to start a new life in another land.
 
SVERDLIN:  Well, definitely it's -- it's rough experience and it's drama indeed. But speaking of myself, I would say that shame for my country for this ugly war. It troubles me more. 
 
CHURCH:  Yes. And what about some of these other men that you've been helping avoid conscription and of course, with some, as we mentioned, advising them on how to surrender. I mean, what are they thinking? How are they feeling about the life that is before them? 
 
SVERDLIN:  Well, this war isn't so popular as Putin's propaganda trying to tell us. And as you can see, there are many, many Russians leaving the country. It's about one million or maybe even more people left country after 20th of September when mobilization started.
 
So, yes, people definitely many, many people don't want to be a part of this war and looking for any opportunities not to be drafted.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Too little too late. That is how one Ukrainian diplomat is describing an Israeli response to Kyiv's request for a defense missile system. On Wednesday, Israeli defense minister Benny Gantz said yes to helping Ukraine build an air defense alert network. But he drew the line at sending any weapons to Kyiv, including a full missile defense system which Ukraine was asking for from Israel. The decision came after Russia made it clear it didn't want to see any Israeli weapons going to Kyiv.
 
Hadas Gold joins us now from Jerusalem. Good to see you, Hadas. So, what more do you have on this? 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, the Ukrainians have been asking the Israelis for defensive equipment and for weapons for months, and in the last few days, that really has increased, especially as we're learning about Russia's use of Iranian made drones and weapons.
 
Ukraine is essentially saying to Israel, hey, the Iranians, your arch enemy, they're using these against us. They're using us as a test ground, as a test battlefield for what they want to use against us. Help us, help us fight them. 
 
But defense minister Benny Gantz, he's really defense minister, still drawing the line, still resisting sending the Ukrainians offensive weaponry, instead offering this air defense alert system similar to the one that's used in Israel against incoming rockets.
 
Take a listen to what he had to say to European ambassadors in Israel yesterday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENNY GANTZ, ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER:  For operational and regional consideration, I don't see us sending offensive military equipment. Maybe we can support them with an early warning system that will allow them to alert the right population in a more accurate manner, which will then allow them to have some kind of life long -- long perspective, I would say emergency routine. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLD:  Now the -- now those regional considerations have to do with Syria. Russia continues to have a military presence in Syria and Israel wants to be able to strike a reigning back target in Syria. 
 <br>[03:45:02]
 
This they see it's very important for Israel security. And whenever they do that, they have a hotline with the Russian military that they pick up the phone and say, hey, we're going to do this to make sure that wires don't cross. And no -- and no and no Russian military operations are affected in any way.
 
I spoke to the Ukrainian Ambassador to Israel, Yevgen Korniychuk yesterday. I asked him what he thought of the min -- defense minister's offer, and he said it was too little, too late. He said they request -- they had requested this assistance before and said you can't win a war with an air defense alert system. And he compared it to going to the market asking for bread and instead getting a spoon.
 
Yesterday, the Ukrainians also actually made that formal request in writing to the Israelis for a missile defense system. They want the things that Israel has, the things like the Iron Dome type systems. But as we're hearing it doesn't appear as though the Israelis want to be -- want to do that anytime soon because of that consideration, that regional consideration of Russia's presence in Syria. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH:  And Hadas, on another issue. Israeli leaders are condemning violence by Jewish settlers against their own soldiers in the West Bank. What's the latest on this?
 
GOLD:  Well, yesterday there was actually two disturbing incidences where settlers in the West Bank attacked people. One was a situation where Israeli settlers attacked actually Israeli activists who had come to help Palestinian farmers farm their olives. Often times Palestinian farmers are fearful of settler activities. 
 
And so, these activists come in, Israelis, foreigners, Palestinian come in to help the farmers harvest their olives. And in that situation, actually a 70-year-old woman was moderately injured. And there's some really disturbing pictures of what seems to be Israeli settlers attacking the 70-year-old Israeli woman.
 
And then in another incident yesterday is settlers, we don't know if they're the same, but this sort of fringe far-right wing settlers attacking actually Israeli soldiers. According to the Israeli defense forces, these settlers had come towards a Palestinian town, started throwing rocks at Palestinian cars, and when the Israeli soldiers came to break that up to stop them from doing it, they were attacked themselves there.
 
And in another incident, they were also pepper sprayed by these Israeli settlers. The Israeli Prime Minister Yair Lapid said that these Jewish rioters who violently attack the IDF soldiers are dangerous criminals who must be denounced and brought to justice without hesitation and with all severity. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH:  All right, Hadas Gold, bringing us the very latest on those two issues from Jerusalem. Many thanks. 
 
Well, time for a short break. When we come back, a wave of Venezuelan migrants seeking asylum in the United States. How a new Biden administration policy is leaving them in limbo. We'll explain.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELIA GARCIA, VENEZUELAN MIGRANT DEPORTED TO MEXICO (through translator):  Not even in my country was I caught in shackles with handcuffs taken out as if we were criminals after the United States had already accepted us. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[03:49:57]
 
CHURCH:  It's a story we'll be hearing a lot more about in the months ahead. Mexico's foreign minister says more than 700 Venezuelan migrants have been sent back to this country from the U.S. in just the past four days. 
 
A growing number of asylum seekers are fleeing the Maduro regime, heading west to Columbia and eventually north through Central America. But the U.S. has a new plan to keep them from crossing the border.
 
Journalist Stefano Pozzebon has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST:  Thousands of migrants, most of them Venezuelans are finding themselves stranded in Mexico. In part because of a recent decision from the White House to expand Title 42 to Venezuelans. The measure allows U.S. border patrols to deport back into Mexico and documented migrants that are found on U.S. soil on public health ground.
 
But these migrants who are traveling from South America through Mexico trying to reach the U.S. Southern border are saying that their lives are now in a limbo as their plans to relocate to the United States have been broken by this new policy. 
 
Some of them are thinking of remaining in Mexico where already 77,000 Venezuelans live and work every day, according to the Mexican Foreign Minister Marcello Ebrard. And the Mexican cities along the U.S. south -- southern borders such as Tijuana, Juarez, and Matamoros, as well as cities in the southern state of Chiapas have seen the largest movements of migrants in recent days. 
 
For CNN, this is Stefano Pozzebon, Bogota.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Still to come, Beijing tries to silence dissent as people across China push back against its zero COVID policy. We'll look at why the attempt to control the narrative is not working.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has authorized the Novavax COVID vaccine to be used as a booster. Adults 18 and over who receive their first series of shots at least six months prior are eligible for the new booster. Novavax was just authorized in July for used as a primary vaccine for adults here in the United States who now have four different choices of COVID vaccines.
 
The central Chinese city of Jinzhou (Ph) has been placed under lockdown. The manufacturing hub is home to more than 12 million people now forced to stay home as part of Beijing's strict zero COVID policy. But the unpopular measures are quickly becoming harder to enforce as the Chinese people fight back.
 
CNN's Selina Wang has more on the effort to silence the opposition. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  He struggles to breathe and crawl, sweating profusely, exhausted under the weight of his Hazmat suits. He's wearing layers and layers of them. This is a demonstration from a Chinese citizen all the way in New York City's Times Square. A metaphor for the suffocating zero COVID policy many feel in Xi Jinping's China. 
 
It's to mark the ongoing Communist Party Congress where Xi is expected to secure his unprecedented third term.
 <br>[03:54:59]
 
ZHISHENG WU, CHINESE ARTIST:  There are so many repressed -- repressed emotions during these two or three years. I vent my emotions out. 
 
WANG:  But in China, shows of defiance are swiftly censored. Just a week before in Beijing, two big banners attacking China's supreme leader and his COVID policies were hung on a busy overpass. One of them reads, "say no to COVID test, yes to food, no to lockdown, yes to freedom."
 
The other banner reads, "remove dictator and national traitor Xi Jinping." People involved in the demonstration could be jailed or even worse. 
 
China's draconian zero COVID policies have descended millions of lives into chaos, fights with COVID enforcers, screams for freedom from locked apartments, protests for food and supplies. During the snap lockdown in an airport in southern China, security even held guns near travelers. 
 
Entire cities are still being locked down over a handful of COVID cases. This woman yelling out in frustration that she's been in isolation for six months already, but the images of pain erased from China's internet. 
 
UNKNOWN:  It's just a general inhumane policy where people are being forced and hurt and their dignity is being taken away.
 
WANG:  We are not revealing this resident's identity because of fears of retribution for criticizing the government. 
 
So why is Xi Jinping sticking to zero COVID? 
 
STEVE TSANG, DIRECTOR, SOAS CHINA INSTITUTE:  Because Xi Jinping can never be seen to have make a mistake. Constantly, we have the party, propaganda machinery churning out narrative that in fact, the zero COVID is protecting lives in China.
 
WANG:  Beijing claims there would be a disastrous healthcare scenario like the million plus COVID deaths in America if China didn't have its zero COVID policy. The pandemic is also Beijing's perfect chance to upgrade its surveillance technologies, including mandatory smartphone health apps that track the daily movements of virtually all 1.4 billion people.
 
Yet, many in China have adapted to the new normal with regular COVID tests and rolling lockdowns. But back in New York, this Chinese artist is doing what he can to remind the world that while they've moved on from COVID, millions in China are still suffering under the weight of lockdowns and repression.
 
Selina Wang, CNN, Hong Kong. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  And thank you so much for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. Have yourselves a wonderful day. CNN Newsroom continues with Max Foster, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[04:00:00]