Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Tampa Police Chief Resigns After Traffic Stop Incident; Iranian Official Says Mandatory Hijab Law is Under Review; Shortage of Children's Painkillers as Respiratory Illnesses Surge. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired December 05, 2022 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR: Tampa's police chief, Mary O'Connor, has now stepped down, this after an internal investigation into a traffic stop she was involved in last month.
 <br>[10:30:03]
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR:  O'Connor had been placed on administrative leave since body cam footage from that incident was released to the public. Here is a look at that encounter.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHIEF MARY O'CONNOR, TAMPA POLICE:  Is your camera on?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It is.
 
O'CONNOR:  I'm the police chief in Tampa.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Oh, how are you doing?
 
O'CONNOR:  I'm doing good.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Okay.
 
O'CONNOR:  I'm hoping that you'll just let us go tonight.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Oh, okay. You look familiar, so --
 
O'CONNOR:  Yes, I'm sure I do.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Okay. So, all right, folks, have a good night. You stay over in East Lake Woodlands?
 
O'CONNOR:  We live in East Lake Woodlands.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Okay, all right. Well, it is nice to meet you. So, I'm Deputy Jacoby (ph).
 
O'CONNOR:  Same here, my friend. Take care of yourself. Sorry to bother you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  All right, take care. All right, no worries. No worries. Like I say, we have a lot of problem with the golf carting around here.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We don't normally come out.
 
O'CONNOR:  We never come out. We never ever --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  But the club was closed so we went to the Greek place to get some food and --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Got you. Okay, all right. All right, then, well, take care and it was nice meeting you. Oh, all right.
 
O'CONNOR:  If you ever need anything, call me, serious.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Okay. All right, I appreciate that.
 
O'CONNOR:  Thank you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, ma'am. You're welcome.
 
O'CONNOR:  Thank for your service.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thank you for yours. So, take care.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HILL:  CNN's Leyla Santiago has been following these details for us. Here is my badge, here is my card, if you need anything --
 
SCIUTTO:  If you need anything, call me, yes.
 
HILL:  Yes. So, there was this internal investigation. She has now resigned. What more do we know about what happened here?
 
LEYLA SANTIAGO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, that entire exchange was under two minutes, but as you mentioned, that has now led to Mary O'Connor's resignation. She turned in a letter of resignation this morning. We've read through that.
 
We've also read through the documents attached to that internal investigation. And in that internal investigation, the city of Tampa finds that she violated the Tampa Police Department's policies, also says that she compromised her and the city of Tampa's professionalism and ethics by using her position of authority.
 
I want to read to you a direct statement from the mayor in which she says it is unacceptable for any public employee and the city's top law enforcement leader to ask for special treatment because of their position. Public trust in Tampa's police department is paramount to our success as a city and as a community.
 
You know, the letter of resignation as well as even the sort of synopsis of the interview that the police department internal investigation had with Mary O'Connor, both revealed that she says that she was very apologetic, it was never her intent to sort of abuse any position of power. But, clearly, that was not enough for the city because she has now resigned and they are now mounting a national search for a new police chief.
 
HILL:  Leyla Santiago, I appreciate it. Thank you.
 
Well, Los Angeles County jurors set to resume deliberation in the sexual assault trial of Harvey Weinstein. He pleaded not guilty to charges of forcible rape and sexual assault involving four women.
 
SCIUTTO:  You may remember that in 2020, Weinstein was convicted of rape and a criminal sex act, this in a trial in New York. The former major movie producer has been accused of using his influence to lure women into private meetings, claiming he'll help them and then assault them.
 
CNN's Camila Bernal joins us now live with more. What do we expect from this the latest trial?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hey, Jim and Erica. I want to explain why this trial is so important. Yes, we already know Harvey Weinstein is serving that 23-year sentence for a similar conviction in New York, but he is also appealing.
 
The case here in Los Angeles is also a lot bigger. We're talking more accusers, more charges. In total, he's facing seven different charges, two rape counts and five counts of sexual assault. So, if convicted, he could face 60 years to life in prison, plus five years.
 
And, look, Harvey Weinstein is 70 years old, so this could be the rest of his life in prison. He has maintained his innocence. He says that he did not do this. He's pleaded not guilty. And his attorney saying that these accusations that the relationships were either consensual or they were fabricated.
 
On the other hand you have the defense saying this is a man who used his power in Hollywood to assault women. They say there was a pattern of rape. They said rapist rape. And so this is all the stuff that the jury has to consider.
 
They have heard from about 50 different witnesses. This has been a long trial. It started in late October. And they heard from all four of these accusers, including the first lady of California, Jennifer Siebel Newsom, who says that Harvey Weinstein raped her. The defense attorneys though saying this was consensual. What they say is regret is not the same as rape.
 
So, these are the things that the jury will be considering as they continue those deliberations today.
 <br>[10:35:05]
 
And it will be interesting to see who this jury believes. Jim, Erica?
 
HILL:  Yes, absolutely. Camil, I know you'll keep us posted on any of those developments. Camila, I appreciate it, thank you.
 
BERNAL:  Thank you. SCIUTTO:  Still to come, Iran's state media is playing down reports that the government has abolished the country's feared morality police. A top Iranian official says, however, the government is reviewing a mandatory hijab law. We'll have more.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
SCIUTTO:  A top official in Iran says the Iranian parliament and the judiciary is now reviewing a law requiring women to wear in hijab in public. But state media is pushing back on statements from Iran's attorney general claiming the government is also abolishing the so- called morality police. Those claims come after months of protests following the death of a young woman in police custody. The morality police, as they're known, detained Mahsa Amini, allegedly, just for not wearing his hijab properly. She did not survive police custody.
 
HILL:  Joining us now with more, CNN International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson. So, Nic, do we have a sense of what the real story is here, what is actually under review, whether things are likely to change?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  We do believe that there is a review under way because the attorney general who said that on Thursday is in charge of such a review but his comments on Saturday, a couple of days later, to a question why is there less morality police on the streets over past few months, that, he doesn't have responsibility for the morality police.
 
So, it is hard to see if he is talking about some aspirations that he has or if there actually is some substance in this discussion but it is surrounded in a lot of ambiguity. It is vague. You have different M.P.s, pro-reform, less reform, conservative M.P.S sort of speaking to both sides of what may happen during this hijab -- so-called hijab review.
 
We understand that the outcome of the review might become public within a couple of weeks. But, you know, we all now and watch Iranian politics pretty closely at times, and often it involves a degree of smoke and mirrors. So right now, you have to say, we do not have a clear picture of what is going on, but there seems to be some discussion. But it will likely fall very short of what the reformers want in Iran because three months ago, they were demanding the removal of the hijab, now, they're demanding the removal of the whole leadership of Iran. So, we're in an entirely different place.
 
SCIUTTO:  Yes, that is the question here right now. First of all, we always have to inject some skepticism with Iranian leadership, right, and that, as you say, a lot of smoke and mirrors, but today's moderates were often yesterday's hardliners, it's just that the hardliners become more hard-line over time.
 
What has been the reaction from the leaders and the supporters of these protests that have begun nationally, and as you say, Nic, have expanded beyond the issue of the hijab? ROBERTSON:  I think they're being very cautious. They know reality on the ground. They know that the government can say one thing one day and then change it next day. So, I don't think anyone is -- anyone on the street wanting to protest is fooled by the notion that there is a review and this is going to settle their grievances and that women will have a choice about wearing the hijab.
 
There was a conservative lawmaker today, a woman, who said that if the hijab was removed, that would be seen by Iran's enemies as a victory, so this was really towards the Islamic republic itself. Remove the hijab and you take down the Islamic republic. So, I think the protesters are very aware of some of the immovable religious objects in the way -- in the path of their desires.
 
SCIUTTO:  No question. It is a means of control, right, beyond supposed religious standards. It is a means of control of the population. Nic Robertson, good to have you covering.
 
HILL:  Certain over-the-counter children's medications used to fight pain and fever, well, they're hard to find these days in many places because of the continuing surge of those respiratory illnesses we've been talking so much about. More details ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
HILL:  As respiratory viruses, like the flu and RSV, continue to surge across the U.S., parents in many parts of the country are finding it tough when they need to buy some of those over-the-counter medications, like children's painkillers.
 
SCIUTTO:  I've seen it. It's true. In a statement to CNN, Kroger, one of the largest pharmacies in the nation, said, at this time, our inventory of children's acetaminophen and ibuprofen are constrained.
 
CNN Senior Medical Correspondent Elizabeth Cohen here with more. Elizabeth, I had to drive all over D.C. to find like the one last bottle of generic cold and flu medication last week. I've seen it. Stores are empty. Why and how long do the stores expect this to last?
 
ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  So, the why part, Jim, we don't have a full answer. There have been supply chain issues since COVID and all sorts of sectors, and this appears to be one of them. And in addition, we have got RSV and still COVID and also flu coming sort of at us very strongly all at one time. So, those have created unfortunately this perfect storm.
 
And it has been a perfect storm for some parents. You heard what Kroger had to say about drugs like Tylenol, Advil, Motrin for children. In addition, there have been issues with other kinds of drugs that treat the flu.
 
Let's take a look at pediatric flu hospitalizations, and that will tell you something about the demand.
 <br>[10:50:04]
 
That red line is hospitalization rate for elderly people for over 65. Right below it is the yellow line. That is children zero to four. All of the other age ranges are below. So, in other words, little children for hospitalization rates for flu are second only to the elderly. I think a lot of people don't know that. Little children can get very, very sick with the flu. And even when they don't get very sick, they're at home wanting, guess what, children's version of things like Tylenol and Motrin and Advil.
 
So, the only thing you can really do is get your child vaccinated against the flu. That's one of the few things you can do. You should -- do is don't hoard these medications. It will give you terrible mommy or daddy karma for the rest of your life. It will bite you later in life. Don't do it no matter how tempted -- right, it's real, no matter how tempted.
 
And if you take a look, this is all happening against the backdrop of a very intense flu season right now. You can see almost the entire United States is in red, and what that means is that almost every state has high or very high levels of the flu. That is what we're facing right now. Erica, Jim?
 
SCIUTTO:  You hear that, Erica, no hoarding.
 
HILL:  I did, I heard it. Don't worry. The good news is I don't need those any more. My kids are too old now. But if I have any, Jim, I'll send them your way. I'll check my linen closet.
 
In all seriousness, as we look at this, there is the karma angle, but is there anything -- we've looked at other supply chain issues. Sometimes the administration, sometimes government can step in. Is there anything that can be done here?
 
COHEN:  You know, the Biden administration, Erica, has just said e that we're monitoring these supply chain issues for critical medicines, and the FDA has just come flat out saying, look,, we can't tell a company to make more of a certain kind of medicine. We're doing our best but we can't direct a company to make more of a particular drug.
 
So, in the end, it doesn't seem like there is a whole lot that they can do. Let us cross our fingers that this doesn't become like the infant formula situation, which was such a disaster for so many families. Hopefully, they can nip this in the bud somehow.
 
HILL:  Yes, absolutely. Elizabeth Cohen, I appreciate it, as always. Thank you.
 
SCIUTTO:  All right. Coming up, so the U.S. men's team is out, that is too bad. But the World Cup quarterfinal round is still going in Qatar, a lot of great matches. Japan just took the lead over Croatia for the first goal in that match. I mean, there are a lot of underdogs playing in these days. It is still fun. We'll go live to Doha, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) [10:55:00]
 
SCIUTTO:  So, yes, we missed the U.S. National Men's Team in the World Cup, we do. It was a tough Saturday morning. I'm sure you're with me on that.
 
HILL:  Yes, I am.
 
SCIUTTO:  But the World Cup goes on. Two big matches to see who advances to the final eight at World Cup, probably be watching, a little.
 
HILL:  Well, Japan and Croatia are battling it out right now. You are going to have to wait another four minutes so you can watch that, Jim, Japan just taking a one goal lead. Tournament favorite Brazil taking on South Korea a little bit later.
 
CNN's Amanda Davies live in Doha, Qatar. Brazil also getting some good news here is Neymar.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN HOST:  Yes, I have to say, not just one piece of good news but two in the buildup to this match against South Korea. The first certainly around their superstar, Neymar, who has been in that race against time to recover from this ankle injury that he suffered in the opening game. Coach Tite had said it was going to depend on the training session that he took part in on Sunday night. And I can tell you that the Neymar himself posted on social media afterwards telling a little bit of James Brown saying, I feel good, I knew that I would.
 
It is quite hard to say that without bursting into song but I will resist. But that is certainly a huge boost for the team on the day that Pele's daughter, it emerges, has done an interview with networks in Brazil trying to allay some of the health concerns over the three- time World Cup winner. The stories over the weekend, I'm sure you saw, had suggested that the 82-year-old had been moved to end of life or palliative care in hospital in Brazil.
 
His daughter has refuted that, saying he is just recovering from a lung infection as a result of catching COVID, which when you're going through a long-term cancer battle, obviously, has implications. She said he's not in ICU and he's feeling strong, so much, much dose of double welcome boost for the team ahead of this match against South Korea, as they try to book their place in the quarterfinal.
 
You mentioned, though, Japan against Croatia, both Japan and South Korea looking to make it the first all-Asian quarterfinal at this tournament. Japan have already beaten Spain, they've already beaten Germany and now they are one up, just 45 minutes away from a first ever place in the World Cup quarterfinal.
 
SCIUTTO:  That will be big. Love to see those teams advance. Amanda Davies, thank you so much.
 
HILL:  Well, the baseball hall of fame will welcome one new member next summer, home run slugger Fred McGriff, a unanimous choice by the 16 members of the Inaugural Contemporary Baseball Committee. The Crime Dog finished his career with 493 homerun and was a notable contributor during the 1995 Braves World Series win.
 
McGriff, McGruff, Crime Dog McGriff, McGruff. So, that means Barry Bonds, the all-time homerun king and pitcher Rodrick Clemens, who won 354 games in his career, denied entry for the 11th time. If you'll remember, both face widespread allegations of using performance- enhancing drugs during their career. However, neither was ever suspended. The next time Bonds and Clemens can be considered for the hall of fame by this committee is 2025.
 <br>[11:00:00]