Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: U.S. Beats Iran to Advance; Prince and Princess of Wales Arrive in Boston; Sally Krutzig is Interviewed about the Idaho Murders; Artificial Intel May Predict Heart Attack. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired November 30, 2022 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) the kick. Dest (ph) making a big run. It's meant for him. Dest (ph) has snuck in behind. Dest to (INAUDIBLE) Pulisic (ph). Scores! Might have paid the price, but the U.S. takes the lead! 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN ANCHOR: I was screaming just as loud as that commentator there when he made that score in the 38th minute. 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR: Yes. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Just an incredible play by Christian Pulisic. The U.S. men's national team moving on to the knockout phase of the World Cup. The team laid it all on the line to capture a nerve-racking, nerve- racking indeed, 1-0 win over Iran. As we mentioned, Christian Pulisic injured as he scored that winning goal. It was something incredible yesterday to just see play out there by Team USA, Jim. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. I mean you talk about leaving it all on the field. I mean, he did. He threw his body into that strike there. He got hurt bad, right? 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: I mean he -- taken out for the second half. Had to be taken to the hospital. Thankfully he's talking now about being there for the big match -- the next match, round of 16 match, against the Netherlands on Saturday. We hope so. 
 
CNN sports anchor Amanda Davies was there to watch it all unfold. 
 
And I have to tell you, like Bianna was saying, I barely survived the last 180 seconds of that game given how close the Iranians came to tying this, right? 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. SCIUTTO: But here we are. They broke through. What's the team saying? 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yes. Yes, they were not going to be giving up, Iran, without a fight, given what this tournament meant for them, both on and off the field. But there have been a whole lot of people holding their breath for the last 12, 15 hours or so after that moment with Christian Pulisic, where he was taken straight from the field, as you mentioned, to the hospital. He watched the climax of the game in the hospital. He is such a crucial, integral part of the U.S. -- this U.S. men's national side. He's been named their man of the match in their last two games. He's such a positive influence on the field. He scored that goal as we mentioned last night. 
 
We got the update last night from the hospital that he had suffered a pelvic contusion. We did see those pictures of him back at the team hotel. But the update last night was very much, we are taking it day by day. 
 
The good news, though, is the U.S. men's national team coach, Gregg Berhalter, has appeared on CNN this morning in the last hour or so and things are sounding a little bit more positive. 
 
Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GREGG BERHALTER, HEAD COACH, U.S. MEN'S NATIONAL SOCCER TEAM: He seems to be doing good. Just spoke with him a couple minutes ago. And what he can do on the training field tomorrow and hopefully he'll be - he'll be ready for the game against the Netherlands. But in terms of his contribution to the group, you know, I've said all along, when one of your most talented players is also one of your hardest workers, you know you're in a good spot. And that - that exemplifies Christian. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVIES: Christian himself says he will be there and involved. But the mood overall in this camp is so positive, so calm, so confident, that is what Gregg Berhalter has instilled since he's been in charge. Four days to go now until they take on the Netherlands. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
DAVIES: I have to say, they are a team who want to make an impact. They weren't there at the World Cup four years ago. They are young and hungry too. But things certainly going as well for the U.S. as they can be at the moment. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. Christian is -
 
SCIUTTO: Bianna, are you as - are you as jealous of Amanda as I am for being there? 
 
GOLODRYGA: Oh, my gosh, listen, if I could trade places with you, Amanda, I'd do it in a heartbeat. 
 
SCIUTTO: Very.
 
GOLODRYGA: It is just incredible. And we're so proud of Team USA and Christian Pulisic. How tough -- some were - some people were thinking that he was going to get back on the field. He got up after that fall and started walking. But he needs his days of rest right now and we'll all be tuning in Saturday. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
GOLODRYGA: Amanda, thank you. 
 
SCIUTTO: All right, the prince and princess of Wales will arrive in Boston today for a visit stateside. They're going to be here. They're going to spend three days attending public engagements. On Friday they will announce the winners of the Earthshot Prize in an environmental ceremony. It's the first trip to the U.S. for William and Kate since 2014. It's not all business on the schedule. 
 
GOLODRYGA: No, not all business at all. 
 
CNN royal correspondent Max Foster joins us from Boston. 
 
It's always a treat to get you to come to the U.S., traveling with the royals, Max. 
 <br>[09:35:01]
 
What can we expect to see from them today? 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, there's three days of visit, effectively. It's not a formal royal tour, but it's a -- three days where they get to know Boston. We're going to see them at various different events over the next few days. Caroline Kennedy will be a big part of this. But it all builds up to the Earthshot Prize, which is about finding solutions to climate change and accelerating those solutions as well. 
 
Prince William describes it as his Super Bowl. This is the big event of the year. It's something he always builds up to. And it was inspired by the moonshot speech from JFK. This was his hometown. So that's why we're here. 
 
They're due to arrive a little bit later on. And we'll wait to see what the response will be. This is their first visit under the titles of prince and princess of Wales. And they say they're aware of the legacy of those titles, you know, from Diana and Charles, of course, but they really want to own those titles in their own right. So, we're going to see how they are going to redefine themselves effectively under those titles in this visit to the U.S. They haven't been here for years, of course. 
 
SCIUTTO: So, it wouldn't be the royal family without some Buckingham Palace drama. So, what's the drama that's following them today? 
 
FOSTER: Well, it's a race around, fortunately, a very unfortunate one as well. There was a guest at a Buckingham Palace reception yesterday. It was about domestic violence. So, Ngozi Fulani, she is the black founder of a domestic violence charity. That's why she was there at Buckingham Palace. A senior aide goes up to her, repeatedly asks her where she's from. She repeatedly points out that she was British but she was effectively interrogated by this senior aide who has since stepped down.
 
But to give you a taste of this conversation, we've got a transcript from Fulani, and it says, I am born here. I am British. And then the aide says, no, where are you - where'd did you come from? Where did your people come from? When did you first come here? So, hugely frustrated. She tweet a transcript of this conversation. Buckingham Palace unusually responded straightaway, said it was investigating this extremely serious incident and that this aide has stepped down. They've invited her to come in and discuss this. 
 
And, of course, it comes off the allegations of racism that the duchess of Sussex also leveled at Buckingham Palace. 
 
SCIUTTO: Goodness. Glad to hear they handled it so quickly. 
 
Max Foster, in Boston, thanks so much. 
 
Still ahead, back here in the U.S., as Idaho students prepare to hold a vigil to honor four classmates stabbed to death nearly three weeks ago now, still no progress, at least public progress, in the investigation. The killer has not been captured. A weapon has not been found. We're going to have the latest on the investigation coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:42:17]
 
SCIUTTO: In Idaho, investigating authorities say they have now retrieved most of the evidence from the home where four university of Idaho students were stabbed to death in what police have described as a targeted attack. On Tuesday, police took five cars from the scene of the horrific crime as well. And while there's still no named suspect, officials are trying to express some hope as they're getting tips from the community. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is there a chance that this crime doesn't get solved? 
 
AARON SNELL, PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER, IDAHO STATE POLICE: What we're finding is that the information and leads and tips that we're receiving are helping us with this investigation. And we really feel confident. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: Tonight, the university will hold a vigil honoring the four students killed. At least one family, the loved ones of Kaylee Goncalves, whose father and brother and sister appeared on this program, they are holding off on a funeral service. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEVE GONCALVES, VICTIM'S FATHER: I haven't earned the ability to grieve the way that I want to grieve. I want to be able to have justice first. My wife's biggest fear, part of the reason we didn't have a funeral, is because she couldn't be guaranteed that that monster was going to not be there. You can't imagine sending your girl to college and then they come back in an urn. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: Just horrible to imagine. 
 
Joining me now to discuss "Idaho Statesman" reporter Sally Krutzig. 
 
Sally, it's good to have you back. 
 
I wonder if you could describe the scene on campus now because here we are three, three and a half weeks out since this murder. No suspect identified. There's a lot of fear on the campus, is there not? 
 
SALLY KRUTZIG, "IDAHO STATESMAN" REPORTER: Right. So, students were actually given the option to finish the semester remotely because so many of them were afraid to come back. The campus is really quiet right now because many haven't. You know, I talked to one student who said he is watching several apartments, feeding cats, watering plants because all of his friends were too scared to come back. 
 
SCIUTTO: Now, the police, and part of this is understandable, that they're conducting an investigation. They're following leads as best they can. They're not going to share everything they find. But they've been particularly tight-lipped in recent days and weeks. And I wonder, do students there -- we've heard from the families. Certainly they're frustrated. Are students, members of the community, frustrated as well? 
 
KRUTZIG: Absolutely. You know, police seem to think there's not much cause for alarm that there's going to be a second attack. But because they've given no reason why they think this, and why they think it was just a targeted attack, you know, the community is skeptical. They are saying, you know, how -- why should we believe that? Give us more information. And right now people are, you know, carrying around protection because they are afraid. 
 
SCIUTTO: What kind of protection? 
 <br>[09:45:03]
 
KRUTZIG: You know, I talked to some people who have said they started carrying, you know, guns. One said, I don't have one so I started carrying around a knife. You know, people are in this mode of, am I going to have to - you know, am I going to be confronted with someone with a knife looking to kill me? 
 
SCIUTTO: Lord. Amazing to have to make those decisions. 
 
There's a vigil planned for this evening. A chance to honor the victims. What do you expect to see? 
 
KRUTZIG: Right. So, it's going to be a candlelight vigil. It will give the community a chance to come together as a group and mourn. You know, school leaders are going to talk. Friends and family, you know, are expected to be there. And I think, you know, the school -- just everyone left to quickly that no one had a chance to come together and talk about it and grieve and this is for the students that did return, this will be their chance. 
 
SCIUTTO: For sure.
 
Now, the one thing police have said is that they are focusing on an area around the household where this murder took place, about a mile long, specifically with any video that might have been captured in that area in and around the time of the murders. What are they saying about that? 
 
KRUTZIG: Right, so it's an area south of the home. It's a mostly residential area. And they're asking anyone with, you know, Ring doorbell cameras, businesses with security cameras. And they're -- an interesting thing is they're asking, you know, even if there's nothing on the video, send it to us. And, you know, it seems like they're trying to map out where didn't the killer go. 
 
SCIUTTO: Right. So, they're trying not just to identify any potential -- potential news from that video, but also where a potential killer would not have gone, right? Sort of eliminate some paths in and out. 
 
KRUTZIG: Right. So, you know, as they get more information, they've gotten over 1,000 tips and submissions, they are trying to narrow down more and more where should we be looking for his route -- or her route. 
 
SCIUTTO: Well, let's hope - let's hope they make some progress. The community deserves it. 
 
Sally Krutzig, thanks so much. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, still ahead, could a single chest x-ray help predict your ten-year risk from death from a stroke or heart attack? Up next, the promising study using artificial intelligence and that one x-ray that could save your life. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:51:44]
 
SCIUTTO: A promising new medical use for artificial intelligence, helping to spot the risk of a heart attack or stroke in advance. Early research suggests the use of artificial intelligence could give doctors another way to predict the ten-year risk of serious cardiovascular events, this includes a heart attack or a streak, all from using a single chest x-ray. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Wow. CNN medical correspondent Dr. Tara Narula is here with more. So, so much of medicine is based on information and how soon you have access to information. So, if this is early, we should note, but if this, in fact, proves to be helpful, what can it do for cardiologists and what they look for in patients? 
 
DR. TARA NARULA, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so it's important to understand, cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in this country for men and women. And we don't yet have the perfect tool to identify people who are at risk. We have something called a risk calculator, a little equation, a formula, that we plug information into and it gives us a percent risk score that we can tell our patients. The problem is we don't always have all the information we need for that risk calculator and it's not perfectly accurate. 
 
So. in comes artificial intelligence. So, how can we incorporate that to complement our ability to predict who might be at risk, and, most important, to get them on treatment, medication, like statins, or to encourage them to make lifestyle changes. 
 
So, this study, as you mentioned, very preliminary. I want to point that out. It has not been published and it has not been peer reviewed. But really what it does is open up the door to us understanding, could this conceptually be used? And so what researchers did was use a single or simple chest x-ray to try to help predict if someone might have a heart attack or stroke. How did they do that? 
 
Well, they first took about 150,000 chest x-rays and generated this AI model. Then they said, let's test this in the real life. So they took 11,000 outpatients and applied that tool and saw, does it correlate with the number of patients who then went on to have a heart attack and stroke. And, in fact, it did. About 10 percent of those 11,000 went on. And the chest x-ray tool was able to kind of accurately match that. 
 
In addition, when they compared it to that risk calculator that I mentioned, it also correlated very well to that and added information to that. 
 
When I spoke to one of the radiologists who led the study yesterday, he said it was really interesting. You know, many times we look at a chest x-ray and we can tell signs of who might have a problem with their heart based on an enlarged heart or enlarged aorta, the big blood vessel that comes off the heart. But what was fascinating about this is he said you would look at some of these chest x-rays, as a radiologist, and never be able to tell what it is that the AI is picking up on that then goes on to increase that person's risk. So, it's really still a little bit of a black box in terms of our understanding of how this is working. 
 
MARGARET BRENNAN: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: So, Dr. Narula, you were mentioning there, I think, probably hinting at why this is so helpful, because is it - if you identify these risk factors early, then you can prescribe things that might save lives, right, like statins, you said. NARULA: Absolutely. And so, you know, we call this kind of the holy grail of cardiology. So many times patients come in my office and they say, you know, can you tell me, what is my chance of having a heart attack or a stroke. This is my cholesterol, this is my blood pressure. And I can't always give them the perfect answer. So, yes, to be able to have another tool where I could help them predict and, most importantly, as you've said, to get them on the road to prevention, prevention is so key in our world, what we do as cardiologists, that knowing that information ahead of time could really save lives. 
 <br>[09:55:06]
 
And the researchers are hoping that this could really be a widespread, population-based screening tool. So, for example, millions of people go into the emergency room every year and get a chest x-ray. What if you left the emergency room with discharge paperwork that said, oh, by the way, your chest x-ray shows you might be at increased risk of cardiovascular disease, you should see a cardiologist. That could go a long way to reducing events and saving dollars in this country as well. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. Yes, there could be a lot of comfort in that.
 
Dr. Tara Narula, thanks so much. 
 
NARULA: Thank you.
 
GOLODRYGA: Still ahead, the House prepares to vote for legislation to avoid a catastrophic railroad strike. We'll take you live to Capitol Hill, up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Good morning, everyone. I'm Bianna Golodryga. 
 <br>[10:00:01]
 
SCIUTTO: And I'm Jim Sciutto.
 
Right now, on Capitol Hill, the House set to begin voting on critical legislation to avoid a nation-wide railroad strike.