Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel's Netanyahu Appears To Edge Toward Victory; Iran Preparing To Send Additional Weapons Including Ballistic Missiles To Russia; Families Of Halloween Crush Victims Identify Lost Items As South Korean Police Admit Mistakes. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired November 02, 2022 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:11]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: In the hour ahead here on CNN Newsroom, Israel's political Houdini looks set for a second act but at what costs. Benjamin Netanyahu's returned as prime minister will be possible after he made a deal with the far right Jewish extremists.
 
From one international prior to another, Iran looks set to supply more combat drones and now ballistic missiles to Russia.
 
He did not concede, he did not congratulate but he did speak and many in Brazil breathed a sigh of relief as Bolsonaro agrees to a peaceful transfer of power.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN Newsroom with John Vause.
 
VAUSE: Well, official results from Israel's election are expected in the next day or so it appears according to exit polls, former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is on the verge of yet another political comeback and outcome which is stunning, but not surprising, especially given the surge of support for the ultra-nationalist far-right wing.
 
The former ruling Likud Party is also expected to increase its presence in the Knesset or Parliament party faithful celebrating a return to power as well as the resurgence of EB (ph) Netanyahu.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, FORMER ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): One thing is already clear our way, the Likud's way has proven itself. I remind you that from 52 seats in the last election, we are now on the verge of a very big victory.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The comeback was made possible by a coalition deal he made with the far right, in particular religious Zionism, which is likely to have more than doubled their representation in the Knesset. But all this comes with an asterix, everything is premised on the accuracy of exit polling, commissioned by the three major Israeli TV channels. For Netanyahu support from the far right gets his potential coalition government over the line with a very slim majority 61, maybe 62 seats, the 120 seat parliament, but the acting prime minister Yair Lapid, who rose to power as the leader of the anyone but BB (ph) block is clean to one last hope but the exit polling is wrong.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YAIR LAPID, ACTING ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): This night may go on for two days until the last envelope is counted. Nothing is over closed. We will wait patiently even if we don't have patience or a final data.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Live now to Tel Aviv, and Carrie Keller-Lynn, political correspondent for The Times of Israel. It's quite the job but good to have you with us, Carrie.
 
CARRIE KELLER-LYNN, POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT, THE TIMES OF ISRAEL: Good to be here.
 
VAUSE: So the story of this fifth election in less than four years isn't so much the incredible political comeback by Benjamin Netanyahu but sort of more how he did it. A big part of the how was his deal he made with the far right political party once considered too extreme for mainstream politics. And that wasn't that long ago. And this is about trigger warnings from some very prominent Israelis, that the founding principles of Israel are at risk, including from your editor, David Horowitz.
 
So what is the concern? What has Netanyahu potentially unleashed here?
 
KELLER-LYNN: I think you said it very well. It's -- although the results are not final, it seems that Netanyahu is well poised for a comeback. The question is what this government with a religious scientism Jewish power, which is the party you mentioned, would look like. And I think there's two big key issues at play.
 
First is there might be a wide sweeping judicial reform that might even reach down into the depths of Netanyahu's current ongoing corruption trial and make it possible to cancel some trial. It would also fundamentally alter the balance of power between the court system in Israel and politicians in place the politicians more firmly in control, thus, perhaps changing the way that democratic -- democracy is practiced within Israel.
 
The second point is that it really does mean stream, completes the mainstreaming process of this far right ultra-nationalist ideology, which, as you pointed out, only two years ago, failed to even make it into the Knesset far right leader Itamar Ben Gvir, who's really the face of this resurgence in ideology only garnered something like half a percentage of the vote in 2020. And today he's seen as the most popular figure in this party, which is now the Knesset's third largest. VAUSE: Wow, the review of the laws especially the ones who are which Benjamin Netanyahu is accused of breaking, that just seems so shady and yet it's going to happen.
 
KELLER-LYNN: So the law in question it's a it's a singular charge called fraud and breach of trust. It forms the basis of three of Netanyahu's for ongoing claims. 
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
The law itself is problematic. Scholars across the Israeli judicial system have said that it is too vague. It doesn't give a clear idea of what the law is before you break it. The debate is really whether to reform this charge or to cancel it entirely. And under current Israeli law, if it were to be cancelled, Netanyahu trial would be canceled as well.
 
Of course, Netanyahu and the Likud have said no, even though we want this law to be cancelled, even though it would be possibly canceled under a coalition we form and bring back, we don't want the trial to be affected, of course fend for himself was recorded as saying that he would make sure to retro actively apply it.
 
So this could be very consequential in terms of ending what has been a corruption investigation that has really captured Israeli attention since 2015.
 
VAUSE: The acting prime minister for now, Yair Lapid, vowed to fight on for an inclusive and diverse society. Here it is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAPID (through translator): We have no intention to stop. We have no intention to seize every Israeli citizens. The religious or secular, leftist or rightist Jewish or Arab, straight or LGBT should know tonight that we will continue to fight for Israel to be a Jewish and democratic, liberal and progressive states.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: But judging by the polling, the majority don't want that. They want this. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ITAMAR BEN GVIR, JEWISH POWER PARTY LEADER (through translator): The time has come that we go back to being in charge of our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: That's the leader of religious Zionism. And in Israel, there doesn't seem to be much room for the leftist the secular, the Arabs, those who are gay. This is a very different Israel from 75 years ago when Arabic was declared an official language alongside English and Hebrew. KELLER-LYNN: Yes, one thing I would just point out is that Yair Lapid's vision is projected to so when considerably more votes at the polls than beat Ben Gvir's -- Ben Gvir's party is pulling about 15 seats right now. At least half of them are attributed to him, whereas Lapid's party is pulling out a little bit over 20. So thus, you'd be pulling perhaps three times the number of seats that Ben Gvir pulls in his far right ideology.
 
I think what's really surprising about this is the fact that Ben Gvir has been mainstreamed to the extent I would like to call back only 30, 40 years ago when an ideological predecessor of Ben Gvir the rabbi, late racist Rabbi Meir Kahane was in Knesset as a duly elected member of Knesset, Likud members would walk out when he would give a speech on the plenum because it was something that was beyond the pale for them.
 
Ben Gvir's session into mainstream politics is not because of a shift in ideology so much, it was because of political expediency. Fundamentally, Benjamin Netanyahu needed him to break the stalemate that we've seen that's caused Israel to have five elections in under 43 months. This is fundamentally a consequence of political expediency that has brought Ben Gvir into the fold. Netanyahu hand stitched him into his coalition by forcing him to join with his running mate in our religious Zionism Jewish power, and that is both mainstream pin and brought his ideology into the Knesset.
 
And so I don't think it's necessarily a huge shift in the Israeli electorate. What it is, is a shift in what's acceptable in Israeli politics, which of course, should be alarming or at least raise eyes for -- eyebrows as well.
 
VAUSE: Great analysis at the end. That was very well put, so thank you for that. And thank you also for getting up early. I know you were late last night, so we appreciate it. Carrie Keller-Lynn in Tel Aviv. Thank you.
 
Well, South Korean officials say they fired three air-to-surface missiles in response to a series of North Korean missile launches just hours earlier. The military says it carried out precision strikes targeting the international waters near the area where one of the North Korean missiles landed.
 
Early Wednesday, Pyongyang launched 10 missiles of various types, including three ballistic. The South Korean president says the launches were effective territorial encroachment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KANG SHIN-CHUL, JCS DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS (voiceover): This missile launch marks the first time since the division of the peninsula that has landed near our territorial waters south of the Northern Limit Line is very rare and we can never tolerate it. Our military will firmly respond to it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) VAUSE: All of this comes after Pyongyang warned on Monday that the U.S. and the South Korea should stop their large scale joint military operations, which began this week.
 
Ukraine says a Russian barrage of artillery and rocket attacks is not lit up on the front lines. Parts of the Donetsk region are among the hardest hit. Ukrainian forces remain in control of the town of Bakhmut but it's been devastated amid daily attacks by Russian troops.
 
Ukraine says more than 50 settlements were hit in 24 hours from Kharkiv in the North, Zaporizhzhia in the South, and then Russian occupied Kherson, the fighting is intensifying its -- Ukrainian forces tried to break down Russian defenses.
 <br>[01:10:08]
 
Civilians are also leaving and now Ukraine's military has accused the Russian installed officials in Kherson of spreading misinformation to try and make residents flee and a forced evacuation.
 
Russia could sink at a much needed boost on the battlefield with a Iran preparing to send the country about 1,000 more weapons. CNN's Kylie Atwood has details now from the State Department.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Iran is preparing to send additional weapons from Iran to Russia duty used on the battlefield in Ukraine. And according to our sources, who closely track Iran's weapon program, they say that in this shipment there would be included these attack drones that Iran has already sent to Russia, and that had been used to deadly effect on the battlefield, but also precision guided missiles.
 
And that is significant because Iran has not yet sent those types of weapons to Russia. It would be a major development because they are more advanced. They're able to strike from a distance. They're able to strike specific targets.
 
And when you talk to U.S. officials, the State Department just today saying that they are looking to expose, confront and counter Iran from being able to send this additional weaponry to Russia. They are closely tracking the possibility of Iran sending these advanced missiles to Russia.
 
And they talked about the fact that just because Russia has turned to Iran for these missiles, it reveals that Russia has run into some dire shortages, with its own weaponry as it continues to fight this war in Ukraine. And that is something that U.S. officials are citing as a reason for why they would be turning to Iran at this point. Kylie Atwood, CNN, the State Department.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
VAUSE: To Canberra, Australia now and Malcolm David, Senior Analyst in Defense Strategy and Capability at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute. Welcome back.
 
MALCOLM DAVIS, MILITARY ANALYST: Thank you, John.
 
VAUSE: John, but that's OK. The greater concern among U.S. officials, it seems, is not so much the attack drones that Iran is sending to Russia, but rather the surface-to-surface missiles. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIG. GEN. PAT RYDER, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: We do know that Russia has provided or excuse me, Iran has provided Russia with UAVs, which we anticipate they'll likely seek more of those. We do have concerns that Russia may also seek to acquire additional advanced munition capabilities from Iran, for example, surface-to-surface missiles to us in Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The State Department sort of echoed that warning as well, almost word for word. So explain why the elevated concern over these Iranian surface-to-surface missiles.
 
DAVIS: Well, essentially the two types of surface-to-surface missiles that there's the what's known as the Fateh-110 and there's the Zolfaghar. Fateh-110 obviously has a considerably greater range than the Shahed drones that the Russians have been using previously. And the Zolfaghar is even greater range, we're talking about 700 kilometers for the Zolfaghar.
 
So that would allow the Russians to essentially strike across the length and breadth of Ukraine, from fairly deep inside Russia, and well beyond the range of any sort of Ukrainian ability to retaliate. So that's the first point.
 
The second point is the accuracy of these missiles. They're much more accurate and able to strike at point targets, such as not only critical infrastructure, such as electricity grids, but also military targets, such as air bases, and naval bases, and so forth.
 
So, the potential there is for the Russians to get hold of weapons in significant numbers that could then allow them to inflict serious damage, even more so than what they've done already on Ukraine's society and infrastructure and put more pressure on Ukraine going into the winter.
 
VAUSE: This war began, what, 10 months ago, and the fact that Russia is now relying on Iran for missiles and drones is because almost the entire Russian inventory of precision guided missiles has been used, at least according to some reports.
 
So from a military strategic point of view, what did they get in return for all those airstrikes, missile strikes and any surprise that Russia is now in this position after such a short period of time?
 
DAVIS: Well, look, I think the one of the key takeaways of this conflict really since it began is how quickly states engaged in high intensity warfare, go through munitions, go through missiles, go through artillery, shells, rockets, that sort of thing. It just is a horrendous pace of usage in terms of the rate that we use, or that the adversary uses weapons.
 
And we're facing the same problem in terms of supporting Ukraine. We're going through our stockpiles very quickly as well. So the Russians have clearly run low on the -- on their own precision strike weapons, their own missile system.
 <br>[01:15:00]
 
And now they're relying on Iran to backfill. And I think that this is indicative not only of Russian weakness, but also the nature of high intensity conflict. It just occurs as at a rapid pace, and you quickly use up the munitions that you have.
 
VAUSE: Yes, it seems that supply of data weapons to Ukraine supply (INAUDIBLE) at least for now. And adviser to Ukraine's president, though, tweeted this, transferring missiles to the Russian Federation, Iran knows that it will attack our cities, teaching Russians to use drones, it knows that they will attack our energy sector, promoting waves of refugees to EU. Tehran is an accomplice of aggression in Europe and must be officially recognized as such.
 
Seems like it's pretty reasonable to me. But it also goes to a wider point here. It says bit by bit day after day, this conflict becomes a little wider becomes a little more complicated. It just grows out into another area. So where do you see all of this heading?
 
DAVIS: Look, I do think it is escalating. It's escalating horizontally because more states are being involved. It's very clear now with Iran having a presence on the ground to operate the drones and invariably, they will operate the surface-to-surface missiles is escalating vertically in terms of Russia attacking other targets within Ukraine, and going at once again, after civilian targets, without any thought or consideration of human civilian losses.
 
The big danger, of course, I think, which everyone is concerned about is that in potentially the northern spring, that Putin decides to use tactical nuclear weapons. And the recent discussion about the Russians have suggested a dirty bomb, which they would be the ones that were used, not the Ukrainians would be a justification for the Russians then to use nuclear weapons.
 
I think that's the big danger that everyone's in everyone is concerned about. But also these missile systems, the Zolfaghar that Russia is getting from Iran, would potentially allow Russia to strike out NATO supply lines in the far west of the country, potentially even into NATO itself. So there are potential pathways for both vertical and horizontal escalation of this conflict, which are exceedingly dangerous.
 
VAUSE: Yes, it's a scary time has it always been just seems to get more so by the day. Malcolm, thank you for being with us. Appreciate it.
 
DAVIS: Thank you very much.
 
VAUSE: Vladimir Putin's unprovoked war on Ukraine has faced some strong criticism from some very prominent Russians. And now one billionaire says he's actually renouncing his Russian citizenship in protest. CNN's Matthew Chance has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): He's one of the most high profile richest Russians to publicly condemn the Ukraine war. The billionaire who founded the Tinkov bank, one of Russia's biggest lenders, now renouncing his Russian citizenship, a major slap to the Kremlin's face.
 
He's even posted the termination document online along with scathing criticism of the Russian state. I can't and won't be associated with a fascist country, Tinkov wrote on his Instagram page, a country that started a war with that peaceful neighbor.
 
And he went even further calling on other wealthy Russians to also leave the country behind. I hope more prominent Russian businessman will follow me, Tinkov writes, so it weakens Putin's regime and his economy and puts him eventually towards defeat.
 
The post was quickly deleted, which Tinkov blames on Kremlin troll. It's not the first time Tinkov has publicly criticized Putin and his Ukrainian conflict. But these almost daily scenes of violence and its horrors seemed to galvanize the billionaire.
 
Back in May, Tinkov, who's suffering from cancer to the spoke of how his own fight for survival made it impossible to stay silent, in the face of so much killing.
 
OLEG TINKOV, RUSSIAN BILLIONAIRE (through translator): You see kids, women, people dying for nothing, being murdered by someone. I mean, the Russian army is killing them for nothing. You can die from cancer. But why should you die from a bomb just because you live in Ukraine. This is messed up, especially in the 21st century.
 
CHANCE: Of course, there have been other prominent Russian billionaires who criticize the Ukraine war. Even Oleg Deripaska, a metals magnate, known to be close to Putin has called it a colossal mistake. They stopping short of blaming the Kremlin.
 
OLEG DERIPASKA, RUSSIAN BILLIONAIRE: Get lost, please.
 
CHANCE: And earlier this month, another billionaire investor Yuri Milner said he renounced his Russian passport too.
 <br>[01:20:01]
 
Tinkov seen here in London where despite British sanctions he still spends much of his time says he only ever met Putin once for a beer more than 20 years ago. But he says he hates Putin's Russia, and is now severing himself from it altogether of what he calls Putin's crazy war. Matthew Chance, CNN London. (END VIDEO TAPE)
 
VAUSE: Just ahead as families claimed the belongings of loved ones who died in that deadly crowd crushed in South Korea. Next up here from the friends and some of those who were killed.
 
Also had a recent petrol bomb attack and immigration center is drawing attention to the community immigration policy and the Cabinet minister responsible for overseeing it.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back. In a gym in Seoul grieving families can now collect the belongings of their loved ones who died. More than 150 people were killed in that crowd surge during a Halloween celebration in Seoul over the weekend. There are the shoes or backpacks, purses, a lot of shoes. These are the personal items waiting to be claimed. All the represent lies which are lost. CNN's Ivan Watson spoke with survivors and friends. Some of those who died.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
IAN CHANG, FRIEND OF VICTIM STEVEN BLESI: Everybody was very fond of Steven. Steven was the kindest person that ever was. He will be there for you. Because like I give a friend for everybody. I counsel.
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Ian Chang, a 21-year-old from Florida. He's talking about his friend Steven Blesi. The two American university students met here in South Korea during their semester abroad in Seoul.
 
CHANG: It was like one of his big adventures to come here. By himself.
 
UNIDENTFIED FEMALE: Show me some cooking skills.
 
WATSON: Young Americans mixed class work with exploring Korea.
 
CHANG: He definitely like the fruit here. For sure.
 
WATSON: The barbecue.
 
CHANG: Yes, Korean barbecue.
 
WATSON: And that included late nights out in Seoul's bars and nightclubs. That is until Saturday night when everything went horribly wrong.
 
CHANG: I didn't know it was real. You know the whole thing because I saw him that day. Right. And just learned in the news that he passed away. He just, you know, wasn't seem to be true.
 
WATSON: The two Americans plans to meet here in Seoul's Itaewon district to celebrate Halloween. But that night Korean authorities estimate more than 100,000 other people were also coming to party here.
 
ANNE-LOU CHEVALIER, SURVIVOR OF CROWD CRUSH: At the beginning we thought it was funny.
 
WATSON: Stuck in the crowd, Anne-Lou Chevalier. 22-year-old French exchange student filmed herself with friends. At first, laughing but then she suddenly looks distressed.
 <br>[01:25:07]
 
WATSON (on camera): You were hurt. What happened to you?
 
CHEVALIER: At some point I had no air and we were so crushed to other people that I couldn't breathe at all. So I just passed out.
 
WATSON: Unconscious.
 
CHEVALIER: Yes, unconscious.
 
WATSON (voiceover): Bystanders pulled Chevalier lift out of the crowd. She was one of the lucky ones.
 
WATSON (on camera): This narrow alley was ground zero on Saturday night. Hundreds of party goers collapsed into a deadly pile up here and began suffocating under the weight of the crowd.
 
WATSON (voiceover): At least 156 people died. South Korea is still processing this staggering loss. Days later, lost belongings on display for grieving relatives to identify.
 
CHANG: So Mrs. Steven to tell him, Hey, don't come to our place anyway.
 
WATSON: On Saturday night, Ian Chang got to the crowded neighborhood first, and warned his friends not to come. But the Atlanta native who loved hip hop and international travel, never answered. The next day authorities identified Blesi and Anne Gieske, another American student from the same exchange program as two of the many victims.
 
Just weeks ago, this group of friends went on a weekend hiking trip together.
 
CHANG: They're such a great person. A great friend.
 
WATSON: Steven and Ian shared plans for the future hopes and dreams that will now never be fulfilled.
 
CHANG: I wish I could have made more memories with him, you know. And this, I'm going to miss him.
 
WATSON: Ivan Watson, CNN, Seoul.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
VAUSE: Dozens are missing after two boats carrying migrants capsized off the coast of Greece. This was the view from a Greek Coast Guard ship as it searched for survivors. Fear of being pulled from the water but one of the boats was carrying more than 60 people. Another capsized Monday with more than a dozen onboard. Greece has been an entry point for Europe's migration crisis with refugees fleeing war and poverty across parts of the Middle East.
 
In Dover, England and attack on an immigration center has provoked renewed scrutiny of the UK Home Secretary who's responsible for immigration, who recently described a surge of asylum seekers as an invasion. We have more details down from CNN's Bianca Nobilo.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): A man throws incendiary devices at a UK immigration center in the southern English port of Dover, Kent before killing himself. A day later, dozens of charities call for urgent action over overcrowding and inhumane conditions at the Manston Center, where some 700 migrants were moved after the arson attack in an open letter to UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak. All this amid a highly charged political debate in the UK over immigration, fueled in part by comments made by newly reappointed Home Secretary Suella Braverman.
 
SUELLA BRAVERMAN, BRITISH HOME SECRETARY: The British people deserve to know which party is serious about stopping the invasion on our southern post and which party is not. So let's stop pretending that they are all refugees in distress. The whole country knows that that is not true.
 
NOBILO: Charities have asked her to create safe routes for refugees who are mainly from Albania, Afghanistan and Iran to travel to Britain. But Braverman known for her anti-immigration views has defended her policies, including the controversial plan to deport some migrants to Rwanda.
 
BRAVERMAN: We have seen an unprecedented number of attempts to illegally cross the channel in small boats. Not only is it unnecessary, because many have come from another safe country. It is lethally dangerous, we must stop it.
 
NOBILO: Braverman seeing growing pressure to explain her actions as she's also admitted sending government documents from her personal email in a breach of security rules and the ministerial code, which led to her resignation under former Prime Minister Liz Truss before she was reappointed by current Prime Minister Sunak.
 
As the number of illegal crossings through the English Channel approaches and unprecedented 40,000 this year, charities are calling for an urgent solution, as several diseases have reportedly already been detected at Manston.
 
CHARLIE ZOSSEDER, DIRECTOR, SAMPHIRE CHARITY: There's just not suitable accommodation. They've only just had a doctor go in there. And that's after four cases of Diptheria. And those are just the ones that are actually reported. We also know that there was someone in there with MRSA who has been since moved. And there's scabies. My message to the government would be they need to have some compassion and they need to get their act together. NOBILO: A call for help as thousands remain limbo with their future unknown. Bianca Nobilo, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 <br>[01:30:00]
 
VAUSE: Still ahead this hour, after two days of silence the normally verbose Jair Bolsonaro, the first Brazilian president voted out of office has spoken publicly. But it's what he did not say which is getting the most attention. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back everyone. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
I'm John Vause.
 
He speaks, he didn't say much, which was oddly out of character, but it was just enough for many in Brazil to breathe easy. It took two days for outgoing president, Jair Bolsonaro, you can say that now, to break his silence after losing to the leftist Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva. Bolsonaro gave a speech from the presidential palace Tuesday, he promised to abide by the constitution. Notably, he did not explicitly concede defeat.
 
But the far-right leader's chief of staff says he's been given the greenlight to work with the incoming government signaling Mr. Bolsonaro's cooperation with the transfer of power. 
 
Brazil's Supreme Court says the outgoing -- the outgoing president effectively acknowledged his loss. 
 
But as CNN's Paula Newton reports, some Bolsonaro supporters are not yet convinced. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: As President Jair Bolsonaro prepared to finally break his silence, police forces across the country moved to break up hundreds of blockades snarling traffic, slowing supply routes and rattling already frayed nerves. 
 
Police were acting on orders to use force, orders that never came from Bolsonaro himself. Instead, in a terse two minutes statement, he said he would respect the constitution but he neither admitted defeat nor recognized the results of the election and had this to say to supporters blocking roads across the country. 
 
JAIR BOLSONARO, BRAZILIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Peaceful demonstrations will always be welcomed. Our methods cannot be those of the left, like property invasion, destruction of goods and restrictions on the right to come and go. 
 
NEWTON: On the barricades, some of the protesters mounting insurgent campaigns nationwide had this to say. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This was a statement where he did not say anything
 
 conclusive. It gives us the impression that there was something wrong with the elections. That is a plus for us to continue our stand and keep protesting. 
 <br>[01:34:51]
 
NEWTON: Many here say they are committed to a patriotic cause, standing up for the president they elected. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Country and freedom, just that. We don't accept those who won, not just us but a large part of Brazilian population. 
 
NEWTON: These protests -- sporadic, unpredictable and yet effective, are taking a damaging toll on the fragile economy and more. This trucker was stuck on the road overnight, and his wife fell ill and had to be taken to hospital. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Personally, I am against it. The people have made their choice. If they wanted to lock things down, they should not do it to business. People have to work. 
 
NEWTON: Even among officials that back Bolsonaro, there is a great reluctance to support any kind of civil disobedience. It's the reason that they have ordered these blockades to end. Even if police have to use force, they do not believe that these kinds of protests will resolve any of the division in the country. 
 
RODRIGO GARCIA, SAO PAULO GOVERNOR (through translator): It will not be a demonstration or a riot that will make society not recognize the result of the polls: to the victors the mandate, to the losers the acknowledgment of defeat. 
 
NEWTON: After a bruising campaign and a vague signal from Bolsonaro that he will give up power to president-elect Lula Da Silva, Brazil seems destined for more political division, now playing out on the streets and jeopardizing an already tense transfer of power.
 
Paula Newton, CNN -- Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Brian Winter is editor in chief of Americas Quarterly as well as vice president of policies to the Americas Society and Council of the Americas. 
 
Welcome back, Brian. Good to see you. 
 
BRIAN WINTER, EDITOR IN CHIEF, AMERICAS QUARTERLY: Good to be back. 
 
VAUSE: Ok, in terms of concession recognizing defeat, affirming it was the other guy who won, this was as close as we got to that on Tuesday. And it wasn't from Bolsonaro. Here it is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) CIRO NOGUEIRA, CHIEF OF STAFF TO JAIR BOLSONARO: President Jair Bolsonaro has authorized the (INAUDIBLE), based on the law, we will begin the transition process. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: That's Bolsonaro's chief of staff, and apparently by agreeing to the transition of power, legally that scene is tacit approval of the election results. 
 
So why talk around the outcome -- a nod here, a wink there. Why not just congratulate the winner? There was once a time when if you weren't gracious in defeat, it was political death? 
 
WINTER: Yeah, that's quite old-fashioned thing to say, unfortunately, in my view. I mean look, what we saw today was as close to a white flag as we will ever likely to see from President Bolsonaro and his allies. 
 
It's true that Bolsonaro did not congratulate Lula, did not explicitly recognize his defeat. But he did say that he would obey the constitution and he authorized his chief of staff to say that the transition would soon be underway. 
 
And for those of us who had spent months now, if not longer, worrying about the possibility of an institutional crisis if something similar to what we saw in the United States following the 2020 election, this was a pretty big sigh of relief. 
 
It's not a perfect situation, as you point out, but it could've been a lot worse. 
 
VAUSE: It took two days to come up with that two-minute speech by Bolsonaro, and there are some reporting that he is now -- he was I think locked in negotiations to try and ensure that his him and his family are not prosecuted once he is out of office. 
 
Bolsonaro does have some legal concerns as everything on the table from corruption to mishandling of the pandemic. How much weight do you put into that reporting? 
 
WINTER: That sounds true. I think the story of what happened during these 48 hours where President Bolsonaro remained totally silent, I think that story remains to be told. 
 
But what I'm hearing and what's been reported in the Brazilian press, was that it was -- in the end it was his allies who prevailed upon him to at least come out and at some level acknowledge the results. 
 
And they have reason to do that. Because even though Bolsonaro lost, his conservative movement came out of this election pretty strong with a lot of political capital. Governors aligned with Bolsonaro will run Brazil's three most populous states. I think all of his former ministers who ran for congress won in their elections. 
 
And so, you know, a lot of his allies were saying to him, look, we know that you're upset. Yes we agree with you that the system was against us, again, in their view. But let's live to fight another day. 
 
VAUSE: Bolsonaro also made reference to the electoral success by the right-wing parties in recent elections. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLSONARO: The right really emerged in our country. A robust representation in congress shows the strength of our values -- God, country, family and freedom. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[01:39:48]
 
VAUSE: President elect Lula Da Silva is already facing some pretty big challenges. How much harder will all this be without a politically aligned congress? 
 
WINTER: Oh, I think it's going to be really hard for Lula. You know, our expectations are somewhat high just because Lula who was president of course from 2003 to 2010, that was an era of bonanza for Brazil. 
 
The world is much more difficult this time around, the global economy is harder, Brazilian politics are harder. It's a much more conservative country than it was before where he is going to be facing, you know, having to negotiate in some case with parties, at least for now who are working with Bolsonaro. 
 
So you know, I think a lot of the left and people who are worried about democracy in Brazil they breathed a big sigh of relief today. But it's not going to last for very long. 
 
VAUSE: The other unknown in all of this is how Bolsonaro supporters will react. There've been many hundreds of roadblocks on highways across the country that's in defiance of a Supreme Court order to clear the way. 
 
"New York Times" is reporting this. Protesters said that they were trying to create enough of disruption that the military would intervene, enabling the president and the armed forces to overturn the election." That seems straight out of the Donald Trump election playbook which would suggest here Bolsonaro's loyal followers are for from ready to go quietly into the night just like Donald Trump's supporters. 
 
WINTER: I do think at the same time that things de-escalated today. The risk of massive violence, the risk of some sort of concerted effort to either overturn the results or make life really difficult for Lula from day one.
 
There will be some voices who will be out there seeking chaos and confusion but I don't think it's going to be the majority. I think that things really did get better as a result of the events of the last 48 hours. 
 
VAUSE: It does seem like the pressure was let out of laid out of what was going to be a very stressful tense moment there. 
 
Brian, thank you very much for that. We appreciate your time. 
 
WINTER: Thank you. 
 
VAUSE: Hurricane and tropical storm warnings have been issued in four Central American countries, ahead of Tropical Storm Lisa. The storm is expected to strengthen to a hurricane in the coming hours, bring several inches of rainfall to parts of Belize, Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Mexico and also Jamaica. A lot of rain. 
 
Pedram Javaheri is manning the CNN Weather Center at this hour. So Pedram, what you got? 
 
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST: John, you know, we've got about three weeks left before hurricane season officially comes to an end. It has been quiet the last couple of weeks of course. And you'll notice a couple of areas of interest to watch here. This is Tropical Storm Martin, well out there over open waters. 
 
But of course, Tropical Storm Lisa is what we're watching carefully, because with winds currently at 110 kilometers per hour, forecast guidance says the system will try and strengthen here as it approaches Belize, Honduras and certainly areas of Guatemala within the next 12 to 18 hours. 
 
Landfall sometime Wednesday afternoon local time, but as John noted there, we do have this hurricane warnings in effect across these countries, and around Belize City, population there 57,000 people, the most populous city across Belize. We want to see the initial impacts here sometime in the next few hours, and a very quick-moving system. It quickly moved this way across areas of Guatemala, and eventually across southern regions of Mexico and it tries to reemerge across the Bay of (INAUDIBLE) -- in the southern gulf of Mexico. But you'll notice the steering guidance will push it back in and essentially rains itself out across this landscape. 
 
So, how much rain are we looking at with this system? Enough rainfall to cause the major problem, certainly on these coastal communities; across the major problems along the coastal communities. Let's just say 150 to 250 millimeters possible, the area is conducive as I noted to further development with sea surface temperatures that are into the 30s.
 
And again, we've had Lisa, we have now Martin -- we're more than halfway through the list of this, what has been really an active hurricane season. You kind of look at the broad scope of how many systems were named, and over open waters this is Tropical Storm Martin going to remain over open waters in the coming days and weeks as well.
 
So for now, the initial impacts of this do not look to be anywhere near land, John. 
 
VAUSE: Pedram, thank you for that. 
 
Still to come here on CNN, the trials are underway, very public trials apparently of antigovernment protesters in Iran. But while those trials happen the demonstrators are not backing down. 
 <br>[01:43:55]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: In Iran the regime promised open and public trials of about a thousand anti-government protesters. Turns out those public trials might not be so public after all.
 
The first case may have been called last week, maybe over the weekend, it's difficult to know. It seems to defeat the whole purpose of holding a public trial in the first place. At least now though they reportedly have begun. 
 
And the demonstrations continue as well despite a crackdown by security forces which has become increasingly brutal and violent. In Tehran on Tuesday, a protest was held on a university campus in support of the jailed demonstrators. 
 
This video came from the pro reform activist outlet, IranWire. The nationwide protests now into their seventh week, and opposing the ruling theocracy's biggest challenge in years.
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh has details from Istanbul.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: More than a thousand people have so far been indicted in Iran according to Iranian state media and judicial authorities. Hundreds of them in the Tehran province as well as other parts of the country for taking part in the protests over the past six weeks for their role in these demonstrations. 
 
The public trials, according to state media in revolutionary courts began over the weekend and are continuing. One Iranian official telling state media that they were hoping that these would be speedy trials. Some of those on trial right now will be facing very serious charges, including killing members of the security forces, attempting to destabilize the country and overthrow the regime, destruction of public property, so the expectation is that many will be facing the death penalty. 
 
We are talking about a country that has a very high rate of execution, a country that for years has been criticized by human rights organizations for its flawed judicial system, for not providing people with fair trials. 
 
Human rights organizations also accused them of extracting confessions in many cases under torture. So a lot of concern for those who will be standing trial right now and the fear is that the government and regime will be using this to try and make an example of those protesters, to try and deter people from taking part in these ongoing protests. 
 
Over the past nearly seven weeks now, the regime has used everything in its views in the past to try and crush protests, whether it's the brutal crackdown that we have seen taking place on the streets, the arrest, the beatings, the use of live fire par according to human rights organizations. 
 
As well as the most severe warning to date that we heard over the weekend coming from the head of the feared revolutionary guards. Telling protesters did. Saturday was their last day and an ultimatum telling them that they should not come back out to the streets.
 
Despite all of this, despite these trials, people are still defiant, the are still taking to the streets. We have seen also university students continuing their protests, as well, on university campuses across the country in Tehran and other places on Thursday as well. 
 
Nearly seven weeks since these protests started, the Iranian regime is struggling to contain what has become this national uprising that is posing one of the biggest threats to the Islamic Republic. 
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: The man accused of attacking Paul Pelosi, the husband of U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, allegedly had other high-profile targets in mind. Pelosi though was his first target and he wanted to kidnap and threatened to break her kneecaps. 
 
Prosecutors have not said specifically who David DePape he was allegedly targeting. DePape made his first court appearance of Tuesday, and is charged with a number of crimes including attempted Murder, and assault. 
 
CNN's Whitney Wild has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITNEY WILD, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CORRESPONDENT: 42-year-old David DePape accused of bludgeoning Paul Pelosi with a hammer making his first appearance Tuesday in a San Francisco court root. For his arraignment. DePape pleaded not Guilty to multiple charges. 
 
ADAM LIPSON, DAVID DEPAPE'S ATTORNEY: There's also been a lot of speculation regarding Mr. DePape's vulnerability to misinformation. And that's certainly something that we're going to look into. He's currently being held without bail. 
 <br>[01:49:53]
 
WILD: DePape has been moved from the hospitals to jail. Prosecutors are asking him to be held without bail, arguing he's too dangerous to be back on the street. 
 
The San Francisco district attorney filed six charges against DePape, including attempted murder, assault with a deadly weapon and burglary. DePape could face up to life in prison. 
 
BROOKE JENKINS, SAN FRANCISCO DISTRICT : It appears as though this was based on his statements, and comments that were made in that house during his encounter with Mr. Pelosi, that this was politically motivated. 
 
DePape is also facing federal charges, that include attempting to kidnap House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and assault on an immediate family member of a federal official. 
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Anyone who assaults, threatens, threatens to assault or kidnapped, hold hostage a federal official to intimidate them from doing their job or a family member of said, he pretty much ticks every part of the statute. 
 
WILD: Authorities laid out the chilling minute by minute account of the attack, detailing how DePape broke through a glass door in the back of the house, then walked into the upstairs bedroom where Paul Pelosi was sleeping early Friday morning. 
 
They say DePape woke up Pelosi and told him that he was looking for Nancy. And that Pelosi was able to slip away at some point and call 9- 1-1. 
 
Police found rope, duct tape, zip ties in a second hammer at the scene. The FBI says DePape confessed his plan was to hold Nancy hostage and talk to her, adding that if she lied, he was going to break her kneecaps. Calling her the leader of the pack of lies told by the Democratic Party. 
 
JENKINS: As leaders and as citizens, it is incumbent upon us all to watch the words that we say and to turn down the volume of our political rhetoric. 
 
WILD: As Pelosi remains in the intensive care unit, Speaker Pelosi issued a statement. "We have been deluged with thousands of messages conveying concern, prayers and warm wishes. We are most grateful. Paul is making steady progress on what will be a long recovery process."
 
Capitol police now saying today's contentious political climate demands more physical security for members of Congress, and hoping prosecutors bring more cases against those who threatened lawmakers. 
 
Capitol police added that the options they're exploring will be made in a formal request. And we'll learn more about that in coming days. 
 
Whitney Wild, CNN -- Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Still ahead here on CNN, with one week before the U.S. Midterm elections, both Republicans and Democrats are sending in their political superstars to try and seal the deal with voters. A Republican even campaigning for a Democrat -- how about that.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Just six days to go until the election day for the U.S. midterms and so far, early voting surpassing 2018 levels. More than 20 million ballots cast in 46 states. Many places seeing a surge in early voting at key battleground states. 
 
Republicans and Democrats are bringing out the big names, the big guns, for the final stretch on the campaign trail. 
 
CNN's Dianne Gallagher has this report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: With just seven days to go, top surrogates swarming the midterm campaign trail. In Georgia, former vice president Mike Pence, hitting the road with Republican Governor Brian Kemp. 
 
MIKE PENCE, FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think there's no better governor in America than Brian Kemp. It's true. Under Brian's leadership over Atlanta, and I could honestly say, I was for Brian Kemp before it was cool. 
 <br>[01:54:51]
 
GALLAGHER: Both GOP figures are frequent targets of Donald Trump with Pence breaking from Trump and endorsing Kemp earlier this year. Kemp's steering clear of criticizing the former president, when asked about Trump's lack of Georgia appearances since the May primary. 
 
GOVERNOR BRIAN KEMP (R-GA): I don't know. You'd have to ask him that question. Look, I'm focusing on, you know, getting our vote out. 
 
GALLAGHER: Pence's visit coming just days after former President Barack Obama. 
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Hello Atlanta. 
 
GALLAGHER: Rallied voters for Kemp opponent in the race for governor, Democratic nominee, Stacey Abrams. 
 
OBAMA: I need you to get off your couch and vote. 
 
GALLAGHER: The current president, Joe Biden, hitting the trail in Florida where he sought to draw contrast with the state's GOP leader. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: You retain your social security your whole life. You earned it. Now, these guys want to take it away. Who in the hell do they think they are? 
 
GALLAGHER: Biden's appearance aimed at bolstering a pair of Florida Democrats, Charlie Clifton and Val Demings who are challenging incumbents, Ron DeSantis and Marco Rubio in the state races for governor and U.S. Senate. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are there other Democrats that you might endorse between now and next Tuesday? 
 
REP. LIZ CHENEY (R-WY): Possibly, Judy. 
 
GALLAGHER: The fleet of surrogates, even crossing party lines as Wyoming GOP Congresswoman Liz Cheney campaigned for Michigan Democrat Elizabeth Swanson (ph) who's facing a tough fight for reelection. 
 
And candidates themselves making closing arguments in new TV ads. In Pennsylvania's tight Senate race, Democratic Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman contrasting himself with Republican Mehmet Oz. 
 
JOHN FETTERMAN (D), PENNSYLVANIA SENATE CANDIDATE: Pennsylvania, the choice is yours. I only got into politics to make my town a safer place. 
 
Oz only moved here to run for office to use us.. 
 
GALLAGHER: While Oz is making an appeal for the political middle. 
 
DR. MEHMET OZ (R), PENNSYLVANIA SENATE CANDIDATE: Politicians point fingers. Doctors solve problems. Together, we'll stand up to extremism on both sides and bring balance to Washington. 
 
GALLAGHER: With one week until the votes are counted, nearly 25 million ballots have already been cast, ahead of the 2018 turnout. 
 
And to illustrate just how major those numbers are, when it comes to early voting, 1.8 million ballots have already been cast here in the state of Georgia. That is another area where Mike Pence and Donald Trump seem to diverge. 
 
Pence encouraging people here in Cumming, Georgia to vote early to tell their friends to go at anytime to cast their ballots as well. 
 
Of course Trump has cast doubt on voting early and voting by mail. And instead, encouraging his supporters to vote on election day. 
 
Dianne Gallagher, CNN -- Cumming, Georgia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Thank you for watching CNN NEWSROOM.
 
I'm John Vause. 
 
Please stay with us. We head to Hong Kong after a very short break and Anna Coren. See you right back here tomorrow. 
 <br>[01:57:32]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)