Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Russian-Drone Attacks Hit Kyiv; Russian Fighter Jet Crashes A Residential Building In Russia; Deadly Fire In Notorious Iranian Jail As Protests Enter Fourth Week; U.K. Scraps Most Of Mini-Budget To Calm Markets; Russia Launches New Round Of Attacks In Ukraine; Xi Says China Will Take Taiwan By Force If Necessary. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired October 17, 2022 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
ISA SOARES, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT:  A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, Russian drones strike Ukraine's capital 
 
 killing four people, including a pregnant woman. And just in to CNN, a Russian fighter jet crashes into a residential building. We'll bring you 
 
 the latest as this story develops.   
 
Then, a deadly fire in a notorious Iranian jail as protests there enter their fourth week. We speak to one of the prison's former detainees. But 
 
 first this hour, Russia is launching a fresh barrage of deadly air attacks on cities right across Ukraine, which Ukraine's president calls an act of 
 
 terror.   
 
At least, four people were killed by drones in Kyiv earlier on Monday. One of the victims was a pregnant woman. Emergency workers were able to rescue 
 
 19 people trapped under destroyed buildings. Russian forces also fired missiles on several regions in the eastern Ukraine, claiming they were 
 
 targeting military and energy infrastructure. 
 
Three people were killed in attacks on -- and Ukrainian officials in Dnipropetrovsk are reporting a serious destruction. What Ukraine's Interior 
 
 Minister says security forces were able to shoot down 36 of the 42 drones Russia fired. He says it successfully defeated Russia's goal of outdoing 
 
 last Monday's -- if you remember, missile attacks. Well, our Clarissa Ward is in Kyiv, and earlier showed us the progress of the rescue efforts there. 
 
 Have a look at this.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  We're here at the sites of one of those four explosions that woke Kyiv up this morning. And I 
 
 think you can see behind me, this is an ongoing rescue  effort. This is quite clearly a residential building. We have already seen one body being 
 
 removed from here.   
 
We also saw another elderly woman being rescued from the rubble, actually from one of the balcony on the neighboring building. And we just spoke with 
 
 the head of the ambulance services who says they don't know for sure, but they do believe it's likely that there are other people still trapped 
 
 inside that building. 
 
Earlier on, there had been reports of voices being heard from underneath the rubble. But you can just get a sense here, Christine, I think, if we 
 
 sort of look around of just how chaotic this scene is. There are dozens and dozens of paramedics, firemen, rescue workers. There are many journalists 
 
 as well who have gathered here, and we actually also just spoke to the mayor of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko who said that this was quite clearly an 
 
 attack on a civilian target.   
 
Here you see this residential building, but the likely-intended target was Kyiv's civilian infrastructure, which Russia has been hitting harder and 
 
 harder in the past week, clearly, trying to cripple energy plants, power plants, heating plants especially as we go into the Winter. But the effect 
 
 of all this, you can imagine is quite dramatic in terms of the psyche of people living here in the capital.  
 
Up until last Monday, it had been relatively quiet here since the beginning of the war. Now, you have hordes of kamikaze drones coming in, dropping 
 
 explosives on to residential areas right in the heart of the capital. The Ukrainian Air Force saying they intercepted 15 kamikaze drones trying to 
 
 get into the capital this morning. And obviously, four of them did manage to strike and cause explosions like the one you see behind me. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  Clarissa Ward there in Kyiv. Well, some developing news out of Russia. Russian military jets has crashed into residential building in the 
 
 city of Yeysk, that is according to state media. Now video shows the building engulfed as you can see there in flames. State media report it was 
 
 an SU-32 supersonic fighter bomber, and that one ignited during takeoff. Our Salma Abdelaziz is tracking this story for us and joins us now. Salma, 
 
 what more do you know unfolded here?   
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN REPORTER:  So, we know just in the last hour that President Putin has now responded to this crash. He's ordered all relevant 
 
 authorities to provide the assistance needed to the victims of this crash. We also know that local officials have launched an investigation to find 
 
 out what happened.   
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
But what we do know so far, Isa, is that earlier today, this fighter jet is a supersonic fighter bomber jet, an SU-34 was taking off from military 
 
 training grounds in the south of Russia, somewhere near this town of Yeysk. As that fighter jet was taking off for this training exercise, it suffered 
 
 engine trouble. One of those engines catching fire. That forcing at least one pilot to eject from that jet.  
 
The jet then later crashing into this residential building, this residential area, into the courtyard of these corridors. We understand 
 
 setting off a huge fire, 2,000 square meter fire. You can see those social media images. We know so far that two people have been killed in this 
 
 accident, 15 others wounded, some of them in hospital already and a 100 people evacuated.   
 
Fire services are of course on the scene trying to put out that blaze, trying to provide the support to these victims. And again, we don't know 
 
 what was behind the crash, an investigation is underway. This is a training exercise, again, in the town of Yeysk, south -- it's a port city in the 
 
 south of Russia, just across the water from Mariupol from Ukraine itself. 
 
But it's going to beg a few questions here, Isa, right? First of all, this is the loss of a fighter jet. This is extremely important at a time when 
 
 Russia's military is losing its arsenal, it's losing weapons, it's losing ammunition on the battleground, losing a fighter jet is a major loss. And 
 
 then there's also questions about the caliber of pilots and soldiers that Russia is being forced to use now.   
 
The U.S. says tens of thousands of Russian soldiers have been killed on the ground in Ukraine and it's resorting evermore to less experienced, less 
 
 capable pilots on the ground, Isa.   
 
SOARES:  Yes, on that point, it's such an important point, Salma. I mean, what is clear in this training exercise that things are definitely not 
 
 going well for Russia when it comes to this war against Ukraine. You've outlined some of this, the losses of course in the battlefield. The lack of 
 
 experience from the men they're calling up. How -- do we know at this point, Salma, how this is being told? How this story is being told back in 
 
 Russia? How they're spinning it if they are spinning it.   
 
ABDELAZIZ:  I think it's early for that. I think for now, Russian state media trying to show that the machine of the Kremlin, the state, the power 
 
 of President Putin is immediately responding to this. That's why we saw that statement again from President Vladimir Putin instructing all relevant 
 
 authorities to provide that support to the victims.   
 
We know the fire services have been rushed to the scene, a lot of what we're learning about how bad this is, is those pictures you were just 
 
 playing from social media where you can see that blaze just setting that building on fire. Those fires still raging throughout. But it does come at 
 
 a very crucial time, Isa.   
 
The partial mobilization, that very dangerous and risky political decision that President Putin made just a few weeks ago to call up 300,000 
 
 reservists. That partial mobilization is almost complete in Moscow. It's -- that process is over across the country, it's going to be wrapped up in two 
 
 weeks time. 
 
So, you can imagine potentially, that these are reservists being called into these training grounds, provided -- analysts and rights groups say 
 
 just a few days at some time of training before they're sent off to the battleground. That's what's so worrying especially when you look at the 
 
 fact that this has not changed the outcome on the battlefield for President Putin. That counteroffensive by Ukrainian forces continues to succeed, Isa.   
 
SOARES:  Very much so, I know you'll stay on top of this developing story for us as soon as there are any more developments Salma, do come back to 
 
 us. Salma Abdelaziz there, thanks very much, Salma. Now, Ukraine says for the first time in its history, it's calling for EU sanctions on Iran. It 
 
 says after today's drone attacks, it's -- quote, "impossible to hide the truth about Iran's involvement."
 
Iran denies supplying Russia with any weapons to be used in Ukraine. Meantime, the death toll is rising from a fire in a notoriously brutal 
 
 prison in Iran. Authorities now say at least eight inmates died at Evin Prison in Tehran known for housing political dissidents. A state-run news 
 
 agency says prisoners set fire to a warehouse amid riots and clashes.   
 
But human rights groups doubt the official version of events, and fear the death toll could be even higher than that. Now, Iranian prosecutors insist 
 
 the fire is not connected to the anti-government protest movement that we have been showing you here that's been sweeping the country. Of course, 
 
 many of the protest videos we've been showing you here on the show come from Iran Wire; a pro reform activist outlet, and I'm joined now by the 
 
 editor of IranWire, Maziar Bahari.
 
Also joining us, Jason Rezaian, a "Washington Post" opinion writer and author of "Prisoner: My 544 Days in an Iranian Prison". Gentlemen, thank 
 
 you very much for being here with me tonight. There's plenty for us to get on with, to talk about. Let me start with you, Maziar, what are you hearing 
 
 from your sources as to what exactly unfolded at the prison?   
 
MAZIAR BAHARI, EDITOR, IRANWIRE:  What we heard on Saturday night was that there was a riot or a kind of a revolt in ward seven of Evin Prison. Evin 
 
 has eight different wards, different sections, and there are many non- political prisoners, especially in ward seven and eight.  
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
And there is a new warden in Evin, and he is famous for his brutality, they transferred him from another prison to Evin. And he's being brutalizing 
 
 prisoners since he has arrived. And some of the prisoners, non-political prisoners, they were revolting against what he had done to them, including 
 
 denying them of their medicine. 
 
Then they started to use tear gas bullets. I have a photo of this that I can show you, unfortunately, our friends are saying that I cannot show it 
 
 publicly. But this was sent from Evin prison to us. And this is the scene that the prisoners saw Evin. It was full of tear gas. And the situation was 
 
 so bad, the prisoners had to break the windows in order to be able to breathe.   
 
So, many people who were transferred to hospital, they were because of their respiratory problems. And from what we know, at least, eight people 
 
 died on Saturday night because the morgue in that ward has the capacity, only four prisoners, four bodies. And then people saw four more bodies 
 
 outside of the -- outside of the morgue.  
 
And then they were transferred to four different hospitals across Tehran. What we know is that the ambulances that arrived in prison, they were not 
 
 allowed to take any of the prisoners to hospitals. They were allowed to take the staff of the prison who were injured to the hospital. And then the 
 
 next day, ward seven, ward eight, and even other wards of the prison were taken over by the special unit guards, which is a special unit of the 
 
 security forces in Iran.   
 
SOARES:  And Jason, you know, you both of you gentlemen actually were held at this prison. Jason, you were there, you were held on -- you know, for 
 
 544 days, you were held 407 days, Maziar, 18 -- how many days in solitary confinement?   
 
BAHARI:  Hundred and eighteen days, 107 days in solitary confinement -- 
 
SOARES:  In solitary confinement. So, Jason, as you're hearing this, I mean, what does this tell you in terms of the state of Iran right now? 
 
 Given of course, that we are now a month now into these protests that started with one woman, led by -- a woman -- a movement led by women here.   
 
JASON REZAIAN, OPINION WRITER, WASHINGTON POST:  Well, thanks for asking the question. I think the thing that we have to come back to is that, in 
 
 countries where things are under control, prison fires like this don't happen. Maziar and I -- Maziar and I were both in Evin Prison in times when 
 
 information like the report he just provided with us wouldn't have been possible to give. There's chaos going on in the streets of Tehran and other 
 
 cities around the country, and apparently inside the most maximum security prison.  
 
So the thing that I keep coming back to as I see these images and think about people who are in there right now, political prisoners, activists and 
 
 many others are my fellow American citizens being held hostage there right now. Ahmad Shaggi(ph) and Siamac Nemazi(ph) and citizens of all of our 
 
 allied countries in Europe who are currently being held hostage.   
 
What I'd like to see is the international community led by the United States and our friends calling for the release of all the political 
 
 prisoners in Iran, and especially those who are citizens of our country. It's the least that they can do right now. Look, this is a moment where, 
 
 you know, the people of Iran are making it very clear what their aspirations are. And I don't think there's any doubt about that, and we 
 
 shouldn't sit by and just watch it happen.   
 
SOARES:  And Jason, one of your tweets, you said this is no ordinary prison. I think both of you can join in on this. What do you mean by no 
 
 ordinary prison? Just explain to our viewers around the world what Evin prison is like.   
 
REZAIAN:  Well, as Maziar indicated, there are wards where there are people who are being held for a variety of supposed crimes. Some of them 
 
 financial, some of them violent. But there are also large number of political prisoners. People who are being held as prisoners of conscience 
 
 simply for standing up in the face of power and demanding their rights.   
 
Additionally, you have many foreign citizens, dual nationals in often in many cases, but citizens of other countries like Maziar and myself being 
 
 held hostage and leveraged against the other countries of our citizenship. So, it's not just -- you know, a standard jail. This is a place that is 
 
 steeped in all sorts of symbolism of repression. And for that reason, has become known as one of the most notorious prisons in the world.   
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
BAHARI:  And it's supposed to be impenetrable, it's a maximum security -- 
 
REZAIAN:  Right -- 
 
BAHARI:  Prison, so when they put you in -- Evin, especially in the solitary confinement, you cannot hear anything. You don't see anything 
 
 except for the walls around you. And there is no smell, there is no bad smell, there is no good smell, of course, in certain sections, there's -- 
 
 there are some bad smells of the sewage.   
 
But in mostly -- most of the cases, you're supposed to be denied of your -- you know, of the basic sensory senses. And I think Jason is right that we 
 
 have to think about the American and dual national prisoners. But I am really worried for the unknown prisoners. Because what happened when Mahsa 
 
 Amini  died on September 16th was that it really triggered a sense of anger among all Iranians from different parts of the country.   
 
Because the older Iranians, they could see Mahsa as their own daughter, their own cousin or their own aunt. But for younger Iranians, especially 
 
 younger Iranian women, they are going through what Mahsa was going through every day. And they could be the next Mahsa. So this anger created this 
 
 protest that we really can't call a woman's revolution in Iran.   
 
And many prisoners right now who are in Evin, Evin has the capacity of 15,000 prisoners, but I've heard that there are many more, up to about 
 
 25,000 prisoners in Evin. And many of them are unknown prisoners. People with no political activities, with no political background, we don't know 
 
 anything about them.   
 
So, one of the things that we are trying to do in IranWire is to give name to the unknown prisoners and to give face to them and to tell their 
 
 stories. Because these are very young Iranians. The average age of the protesters in Iran is between 16 to 22 now -- 
 
SOARES:  Well -- 
 
BAHARI:  And this means that they do not have any experience of the 1979 revolution. They don't know anything about the eight-year war with Iraq in 
 
 1980s. and they do not even know much about 2009 green movement.   
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
BAHARI:  And they are the people who were educated in this government. They grew up under this government, and they hate it.   
 
SOARES:  And so, Jason, given what Maziar just said, this moment right now that we are seeing -- because Maziar and I spoke, I think in the first 
 
 week, following the -- from the death of Amini. What does this moment signify? Is -- do you see these protests going further, even though the 
 
 crackdown has increased significantly in the last few weeks. How do you see things playing out here, Jason?  
 
REZAIAN:  I think despite the regime's best efforts, they haven't been able to do anything to tamp down the energy of these protests. And as Maziar 
 
 indicated, this started as a woman-led movement -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
REZAIAN:  But there are other groups within Iranian society, ethnic minorities, religious minorities, different industries, journalists who are 
 
 also standing up and demanding their rights. I think this is the first time that we've seen desperate groups within Iranian society doing this 
 
 simultaneously in support of one another. And that's rare, that's new and it's worth getting behind.   
 
BAHARI:  And they have the most political and at the same time most potent and politicized slogan in the history of Iran, women -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
BAHARI:  Life -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
BAHARI:  Freedom. This means that they want respect for women in Iran, they want respect for life, they don't want people to be able to take life away 
 
 from people, and they want freedom. And what's very interesting in this set of protests is that they are not chanting for any group. You don't hear 
 
 that much, you know, long live this and that, or death to this -- there are two main slogans, women, life, freedom and death to the dictator, 
 
 specifically, death to Khamenei which is really --   
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
BAHARI:  Bold, because you can be tried for heresy if you chant death to Khamenei in Iran.    
 
SOARES:  Jason, Maziar, thank you very much for breaking this all down for us, really appreciate it, I know we'll be in touch soon, thank you very 
 
 much. While the U.S. Special Envoy for Iran is accusing Iranian authorities for firing on peaceful protests, and instead of listening to them. Robert 
 
 Malley spoke to CNN a short time ago. Have a listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ROBERT MALLEY, U.S. SPECIAL ENVOY FOR IRAN:  Iran's leader should stop pointing the finger to external actor who have nothing to do with what's 
 
 happening in their country, they should listen to their people. And as you said, they should listen to the international community and stop providing 
 
 deadly drones to Russia which is being used to kill innocent Ukrainians.   
 
What we've done from day one, from when the protests started is three things. Number one, we've made clear that when there is a struggle between 
 
 peaceful protesters, who are protesting for basic rights, in this instance, the right of women and girls to wear what they want. The right to 
 
 peacefully assemble and to speak against a government that is using brutal repression against peaceful demonstrators.   
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
There is no doubt on which side we are. We're on the side of those fundamental rights. And of the fundamental rights being respected. And so, 
 
 you've heard the president, you've heard the Secretary of State, you've heard all U.S. officials speaking to this matter, to put the spotlight on 
 
 what's happening, to make sure that Iranians are being seen. Those who are protesting and those who are trying to kill them.   
 
We want the people who are repressing them to be watched, and that's why we are imposing sanctions on them and we'll continue to impose sanctions on 
 
 the morality police and on those involved in the repression. And third, we're going to make sure that the Iranian people can be heard, and will try 
 
 to do everything we can to make sure that they have access to the internet at a time when their government is trying to prevent them from doing so.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  Well, the symbol of this uprising is a Kurdish Iranian woman, Mahsa Amini who you heard, of course, Maziar and Jason and I talking about 
 
 who's believed to have been killed in detention now as Iranian authorities seek to crush demonstrations across the country. Repression in the Kurdish 
 
 minority region is forcing women to risk their lives.   
 
They are fleeing to neighboring Iraqi Kurdistan. Our chief international investigative correspondent Nima Elbagir will bring us their stories in 
 
 just a few hours. Stay tuned to CNN at 5:00 p.m. Eastern, that is 10:00 p.m. here in London, you'll see it on "THE GLOBAL BRIEF" right here on CNN. 
 
 And still to come this hour, a new finance minister, countless U-turns and a prime minister under pressure. We'll have the latest on Britain's 
 
 economic crisis. That is next.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SOARES:  Welcome back, everyone. Britain's new Finance Minister Jeremy Hunt is reversing almost all of the tax measures that his predecessor and Prime 
 
 Minister Liz Truss set out in the mini budget. Everything that wasn't already enforced has been abandoned in an embarrassing U-turn which could 
 
 deal another blow to Truss' political future. Many are openly calling for her resignation, and here's Hunt addressing lawmakers in parliament earlier 
 
 today. Have a listen to this.   
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JEREMY HUNT, CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER:  The conclusion I've drawn from those conversations is that we need to do more, more quickly to give 
 
 certainty to the markets about our fiscal plans. And show through action and not just words that the United Kingdom can and always will pay our way 
 
 in the world.    
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  Well, as you know, European markets are now closed. There was a hopeful uptick on Monday morning with the pound gaining slightly against 
 
 the dollar and bond yields falling following the government's announcements. 
 
CNN's Marc Stewart joins me now  live from New York and Bianca Nobilo is here with me in London. Bianca, let me start with you. I mean, this wasn't 
 
 just a major U-turn. It was a complete dismantling -- I think --  
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CORRESPONDENT:  Yes -- 
 
SOARES:  We can talk all of the policies that you and I, we've all been listening to for the past month. Let's talk through -- talk me through some 
 
 of what we've seen scrapped. So if we bring this up, so cuts to dividend tax, 1p cut U-turn, abolishing the 45 p rate. Page 2, the 80 -- I mean, 
 
 this as the list goes on.   
 
NOBILO:  Yes -- 
 
SOARES:  What does this say then about what this government stands for? This is why she came -- really became prime minister on.   
 
NOBILO:  It is, this is what she built her leadership campaign on in her very fragile mandate. This is her economic principles of libertarianism, of 
 
 low taxes, you know, low taxes being the way to growth by having less redistribution, by having a smaller state. She's having to go back on all 
 
 of that. I think U-turn is even a misnomer at -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  This point. I don't know what the word would be, but I'm about drivers, so I'm sure I've done it. 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  But some kind of complete policy reversal. So that's led many MPs to be questioning, what is the point of Liz Truss? It sounds brutal, but 
 
 actually she -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  She set out her stall in the leadership campaign predominately on the economy. So if she is no longer espousing these principles, and if the 
 
 economic policies is no longer being built on what she believes, and the chancellor appears in charge, why is she there? And indeed she wasn't for 
 
 that much of today --    
 
SOARES:  And we'll talk the politics in just a moment. But Marc, I mean, it was clear from what we are looking at, the pound is slightly against the 
 
 dollar. We also saw the yield, the 30-year yield a bit better. Are markets convinced though by what we're seeing? We're seeing the guild a bit better 
 
 from what we've seen in the last few weeks.   
 
But also FTSE has taken quite a dive as we're showing our viewers right now since September 20th. So is this temporary? Or are really the markets 
 
 convinced that this is a new fresh turn is what the government needs, is what the country needs?
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, one thing that Jeremy Hunt knew he had to do, and it was very clear, his language this morning was to instill 
 
 confidence and stability in the markets. Those are two exact words that he used. And so for the moment, yes, we have seen some gains -- you were 
 
 referring to that chart of the FTSE, it almost looked like a roller- coaster. Steep declines, steep gains, declines -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  And now once again, we are seeing gains. But those gains are not just limited to the United Kingdom. We are seeing gains today in 
 
 Switzerland, in Germany, in France, really across the world, even in the United States, the markets today are seeing a strong rally. A lot of that 
 
 is being attributed to this notion that maybe this financial instability that was perceived is perhaps getting back to more of a rational plan.  
 
But those words from the finance minister certainly were being listened, not only in the halls of parliament, but also by banks and by CEOs and 
 
 individual investors around the world.   
 
SOARES:  And it doesn't matter, Bianca. You know, the pound sterling is up slightly against the dollar, the FTSE, it's done a bit better today. The 
 
 reality is, the damage has already been done when it comes to Liz Truss. So, you were talking earlier, my first question about where do we go from 
 
 here? What do you see, how -- what kind of political future does she have? Do you think she can hold on? And if she doesn't, what is the mechanism 
 
 here for the next prime minister.   
 
NOBILO:  So, in the short term, the market reaction will continue to dictate how much road Liz Truss has left. As Marc was saying, an 
 
 interesting point, and speaking to the fact that the chancellor's priority is a stabilization of the markets. Is it was rather exceptional that today 
 
 he spoke to the media -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
NOBILO:  And to markets first in a television address before parliament, with big tax policies, economic decisions. The protocol is, you talk to 
 
 parliament first. But the speaker made an exception because he knew that the markets were so jittery and the crisis quite acute, he felt   it was 
 
 necessary for that to happen. So that just speaks to the precariousness of the situation.   
 
Now because the markets have stabilized somewhat, and if they keep going in a positive direction, that will give Liz Truss a bit more time, because if 
 
 everything was spiraling out of control again, conservative MPs would feel more urgency to try and steady the ship and do something different because 
 
 their polls would continue to tank.   
 
And confidence and also the government's economic credibility would continue to be eroded. So she's got a bit more time at the moment. But I 
 
 haven't spoken to one MP today, Isa, that thinks she can continue -- the words being used are farcical, embarrassing, every day she stays in power 
 
 it kills us a little bit more. These are direct quotes from conservative MPs.   
 
SOARES: That is very worrying indeed. So, Marc, in terms of the Bank of England, I mean, yet last week, if you remember, the IMF had a really 
 
 blistering report in terms of the U.K. economy. Where does the Bank of England, what kind of moves are we expecting to see in order to keeping 
 
 inflation down? Are we expecting to see more interest rates here? Because that's going to be a huge concern. I think the minister today, the new 
 
 finance minister, was talking of really tough times to come. Are we looking at more austerity here, Marc?
 
STEWART: Absolutely, Isa. I think there are really two challenges. One is that question of inflation, which is an issue that is facing economies 
 
 around the world, but this week, the United Kingdom will get some data on where inflation is heading, where prices of individual products are heading 
 
 so that will be perhaps a determining factor in the next step of this fiscal plan. 
 
The other point to bring up is the issue of heating assistance. The finance minister made it very clear during his hearing this morning, or during this 
 
 presentation, that he really didn't know where things were going to be heading. And he asked individual department heads, if you will, for their 
 
 ideas and how to cut costs, what may perhaps be ripe for some scaling back. So, in order for things to move forward, perhaps in a productive manner, 
 
 both politically and economically, investors, the World Banks, they're going to want to see some kind of roadmap and at this point, that roadmap, 
 
 it's very murky. 
 
SOARES: Not just murky, it's completely changed. So let's see whether they can actually stay on this roadmap to start off with. Marc and Bianca, 
 
 really appreciate it. Thank you two both. 
 
Well, the U.K. isn't the only European country facing economic challenges unions are taking to the streets in Paris as prices continue to soar there. 
 
 They joined in protest on Sunday and are planning to protest again on Tuesday. Workers at several oil refineries have been on strike for weeks, 
 
 demanding higher wages. And that's putting a strain on gas stations right across the country. Inflation and the war in Ukraine are pushing energy as 
 
 well food prices even higher not just in France but right, of course, around the world. 
 
And still to come tonight, Russia fires dozens of drones on Ukraine days after Vladimir Putin promised no more massive strikes when necessary. We're 
 
 bringing the very latest just ahead. You are watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SOARES: Welcome back, everyone. Russia says its high precision air attacks in Ukraine Monday hit all their military and energy targets. 
 <br>[14:35:05]
 
Ukrainian officials in Dnipropetrovsk region are reporting serious damage on critical infrastructure. Ukraine's leaders say attacks on power 
 
 facilities are blatant attacks on civilians. Our Fred Pleitgen joins us now from Dnipro. And Fred, you and I have been talking the last week or so 
 
 about these precision strikes on energy infrastructure, clearly becoming more frequent, more regular, not just in Kyiv and Dnipro, Sumy, talk us 
 
 through what you have seen today, Fred. 
 
FRED PLEITGEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. First of all, I think you're absolutely right, these targeting of the energy infrastructure is certainly 
 
 something that we've increasingly seen, since basically the beginning of last week, since the Russians started striking the capital Kyiv and other 
 
 areas back then, obviously also hitting a power plant there. And it's exactly the same thing that we're seeing right now, where the Russians 
 
 continue to take aim at these energy infrastructure installations, not just in and around Kyiv, but really throughout the country. 
 
And here in Dnipro, there was extensive damage, the local authority said to a power plant in an area, I would say, about 40 kilometers away from the 
 
 city of Dnipro. And that's a highly industrialized area, so a place that needs a lot of energy. And that place was struck. And you can see the 
 
 authorities here now having to deal with all of that, first of all, obviously, the initial damage from the strike that took place where they 
 
 said that rescue crews were on scene for a very long time, there was a big fire, but then also trying to get that infrastructure back up and running. 
 
Again, you can see behind me, it's pretty dark here in the city. That's because the city is calling on people, and obviously also on the 
 
 authorities to use as little energy as possible as they're trying to come to terms with that. And that's something that is going on in various areas 
 
 around the country, whether it's Kyiv, as you mentioned Sumy, but then also of course areas like Lviv as well, which for a very long time had big 
 
 issues with power, but also with things like internet as well. 
 
So, as the winter approaches, it seems as though the Russians are continuing to hit these key infrastructure installations that obviously 
 
 could make it very difficult for the Ukrainians in the winter. What we're not seeing, though, is the people here going into any sort of panic mode or 
 
 anything like that. We've been on the streets here for an extended period of time today. And it seems to us as though the resolve has been 
 
 strengthened rather than anything else, Isa. 
 
SOARES: In the meantime, Fred, Ukraine and the West are saying Russia's using Iranian made drones in these attacks on Ukrainian territory. What 
 
 more can you tell us about this and explain to us why perhaps they're becoming Russia's weapon of choice here?
 
PLEITGEN: Well, there might be several reasons for that. First of all, these drones, kamikaze drones, as we often call them, they're essentially 
 
 what's also known as a loitering munition. It's basically a munition. So an explosive that is delivered by a drone that crashes into something. Now, 
 
 the thing about these drones, the Iranians call them the Shahed 136, is that they are very, very cheap. And they can fly for a long period of time, 
 
 because they're also very light. And the Iranians developed these drones. 
 
And essentially, the way they work is they tried to overpower surface-to- air missile systems just by coming on mass with the Ukrainians, for instance, say today is that 42 of these were launched at Ukrainian 
 
 territory, they were able to take 36 of them down. However, six did then hit targets in Kyiv and in other areas as well. So it's the swarm mentality 
 
 that seems to make them work. 
 
And one of the reasons why some believe the Russians are increasingly using these as, first of all, that they are so cheap, but second of all, because 
 
 some believe that the Russians are running out of some of their own long distance, expensive munitions, that they have, cruise missiles, ballistic 
 
 missiles, these are all extremely expensive weapons where compared to that, these Shahed drones are extremely cheap and can be used in swarms, even if 
 
 a couple don't make or even if and most of them don't make it to their targets. The Russian certainly will say that hitting those infrastructure 
 
 installations in Kyiv and elsewhere will have been a success for them today, Isa. 
 
SOARES: Yes. Very important context there from our Fred Pleitgen in Dnipro. Fred, appreciate it. Thanks very much. And still to come tonight, China's 
 
 president lays out his vision for the future. We'll look at Xi Jinping's plan, that is next.
 <br>[14:40:18]
 
SOARES: Well, Taiwan says it will never back down on sovereignty. It comes after President Xi Jinping said China would take the island by force if 
 
 necessary at the Communist Party Congress. CNN's Selina Wang has more for you.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Isa, China's most consequential political meeting in decades is underway. Xi Jinping kicked off the Communist Party 
 
 Congress with a two-hour speech and it was a glowing report card of his past decade as leader. On foreign policy, he didn't mention any countries 
 
 by name, but he did make hints at threats from the United States. Talking about how China opposes hegemony and bullying from other countries. On 
 
 Taiwan Xi Jinping said while China aims for a peaceful reunification with the democratically-ruled Island, he promised that China would never 
 
 renounce the use of force. 
 
After he made that statement, the room of more than 2,000 Communist party delegates burst into the loudest and longest applause of the speech. What 
 
 that shows is growing nationalism and confidence under Xi's China which no longer believes that needs to play by American led international rules. Now 
 
 this party congress is a chance for setting new policy and for a transfer of leadership. But this time around, the question isn't who will lead 
 
 China, but how Xi Jinping will. 
 
From a nation of farming villages to sprawling metropolises, in recent history, no country modernized as rapidly as China. And in just one decade, 
 
 no person has changed China more than its supreme leader Xi Jinping. His image, inescapable. His thinking, indoctrinated in schoolchildren. His key 
 
 message "Make China great again," but above all else, obey and follow his lead. When he took control of the Chinese Communist Party in 2012, there 
 
 was hope that the relatively low key leader would make China's economy and society more liberal. But Xi had a different vision restored the country to 
 
 its former glory, with his Communist Party firmly at its center.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
RICHARD MCGREGOR, SENIOR FELLOW FOR EAST ASIA, LOWY INSTITUTE: Xi Jinping sits on top of the party, that party sits on top of China, and China sits 
 
 on top of the world, that's basically the program.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WANG: Xi's China is investing heavily in new technologies, infrastructure, rapidly modernizing the countryside and the military. He's reasserted party 
 
 control over business and society, building the world's most sophisticated surveillance state, quashing people's freedoms during the pandemic with 
 
 brutal lockdowns. Xi Jinping crushed dreams of democracy in Hong Kong, oversaw the internment of up to two million Uyghurs and other minorities in 
 
 Xinjiang in what Beijing claims are vocational training centers. 
 
He's amping up intimidation of Taiwan, vowing to reunite the democratic island with the Mainland. China tells its people these actions are long 
 
 overdue, fueled by the narrative that after 100 years of subjugation by foreign powers in the 19th and 20th centuries, China is finally assuming 
 
 its rightful place in the world. Anyone who disagrees is blamed for trying to undermine China's rise and quickly censored or even jailed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
STEVE TSANG, DIRECTOR, SOAS CHINA INSTITUTE: Here he is going back to his mythical visions of Chinese history. When China was the greatest 
 
 civilization and the rest of the world just follow the leadership of China. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WANG: That framing has ripple effects around the world. China no longer believes it needs to play by American-led international rules. 
 <br>[14:45:03]
 
When the U.S. tries to take China on and trade technology or human rights. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MCGREGOR: So that simply reinforces the sense of China under siege from Western powers. I think it has a visceral, emotional, emotional appeal in 
 
 China.
 
WANG: The country is building its own multilateral institutions that are friendlier to autocrats. China grows ever closer to Russia, unified by a 
 
 common foe. In Xi Jinping's China dream, the country is glorious and strong, with the Communist Party ruling 1.4 billion people and shaping a 
 
 new world order. 
 
Xi Jinping is facing a long list of challenges at home including a sharp economic slowdown, a property sector in crisis, and a zero COVID policy 
 
 that continues to wreak havoc over the economy and people's lives. Still, today in China, entire cities are being locked down at the moment's notice 
 
 just over a handful of COVID cases. But in his speech, Xi said that zero COVID is a success and made it clear that this policy is here to stay. 
 
What Xi is doing is ripping up the playbook set by modern Chinese rulers before him. He is setting himself up to be ruler for life, going from 
 
 collective roll back into strong men rule. So increasingly, the fate of China and its relationship with the world hinges on the mind of just one 
 
 man. Isa.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: Selina Wang there. Well, police in Manchester, England have launched an investigation after a protester was allegedly beaten on the 
 
 grounds of the Chinese Consulate. Our Becky Anderson has a story for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: On the streets of a suburb in Manchester in northern England, a man believed to be the head of China's consulate 
 
 there kicks and pulls down banners erected on the doorstep by Hong Kong protesters. One sign read "God will eliminate the Communist Party," while 
 
 Hong Kong independence flags now banned in the British former colony fly above the pavement. 
 
But it was this cartoon of Chinese leader Xi Jinping in a scene from The Emperor's new clothes that seemed to upset Chinese diplomats the most. When 
 
 that poster was taken away by the staff, the demonstration descended into violence, with one protester dragged inside the gates of the consulate and 
 
 attacked. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BOB, HONG KONG PROTESTER: Now in just -- on the face, and like here, and also atop above my head.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ANDERSON: Outside the gate, a Chinese staff member was also kicked to the ground by a protester. Hours earlier on Sunday, Xi Jinping had just opened 
 
 the week-long Communist Party Congress in Beijing, where he is expected to get an unprecedented third term in power. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
XI JINPING, CHINESE PRESIDENT (through translator): In the face of the volatile and changing situation in Hong Kong, we have effectively exercised 
 
 comprehensive jurisdiction over the Special Administrative Region in accordance with the Constitution and the basic law and implemented that 
 
 principle of patriots administering Hong Kong. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ANDERSON: For more than 5,000 miles away from that speech, the fanfare of Xi's big moment overshadowed by violence. A photographer at the scene 
 
 captured this moment when the protester was attacked. The suspected Consul General even dragging him inside by his hair. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BOB: Four of the consular staff started -- grabbed me inside to the garden and after that, then they put me in on the ground and started punching and 
 
 kicking me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ANDERSON: Seconds later a police officer enters the gate to pull him to safety. Greater Manchester Police said officers tried to defuse the 
 
 situation and a police patrol is now on the scene. Some U.K. lawmakers are calling for action over what happened and the U.K. Prime Minister's Office 
 
 says the reports are deeply concerning. On Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson in Beijing said their consulates have "always abided 
 
 by the laws" where they are stationed and they hope the British will "facilitate their normal duties." But one eyewitness said the actions of 
 
 the Chinese staff escalated the situation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MATTHEW LEUNG, FREELANCE JOURNALIST: I think he was out of his mind and he wasn't thinking before he acted. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ANDERSON: Just out of hospital in Manchester, the injured protester said he was shocked that this could happen on British soil.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BOB: China council people damaged the democracy of U.K. and I feel no regrets for stand with the freedom of express myself. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 <br>[14:50:07]
 
ANDERSON: That clash of ideology is being played out with brutality, half a world away from Xi Jinping's China. Becky Anderson, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: And up next right here on the show, environmental protesters here in the U.K. step up the shock factor.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SOARES: Welcome back. Environmental protesters have stepped up shop targets -- tactics, I should say, here in the U.K., but the government is planning 
 
 to limit disruptive demonstrations. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
Milk, the latest pantry item to be used by protesters in the U.K. to call attention to a cause they say is being ignored. On Sunday, activists poured 
 
 milk on the floors of shops around the country, even dousing the meat counter at Harrods with it. The group Animal Rebellion says it organized 
 
 the stunt to protest the lack of support for farmers and fishing communities from the U.K. Government in transitioning to a plant based 
 
 future. In recent weeks, climate and environmental protesters have stepped up their shock tactics across the U.K. to get their message out. 
 
On Friday, anti-fossil fuel protesters from the Just Stop Oil campaign stunned museum goers at London's national gallery by throwing tomato soup 
 
 at Vincent Van Gogh's sunflowers painting and gluing their hands to the wall.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you more concerned about the protection of a painting or the protection of our planet? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: London Police said the protesters were arrested on charges of criminal damage. The museum says the painting is now back on display with 
 
 only minor damage to the frame. And though the act grabbed plenty of headlines, it's caused mixed reactions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But then obviously I was relieved, very relieved that it was protected. And I just think that they need to choose which things to 
 
 highlight their causes more. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They could do something a bit more positive, I think, rather than -- maybe more educational and just make a massive maybe 
 
 something that's nice right in there. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I mean, it's getting people talking about it, which is I guess what they want, but then how are you going to get people to listen, 
 
 you know? Unless you do something drastic. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have climbed up this cable of the QE2 bridge. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: Just Stop Oil activists have been staging destructive protests in London for weeks. 
 <br>[14:55:02]
 
On Monday, police had to shut down a major bridge because protesters were scaling it. Over the weekend, protesters blocked traffic by laying in the 
 
 road. And at least one activist spray painted an Aston Martin showroom. U.K. Home Secretary Suella Braverman says protests like these drain police 
 
 resources and says she's bringing forward a Public Order Bill that will give authorities more powers to prevent these types of disruptions that are 
 
 favored by some environmental groups. 
 
A planned climate march by activist group Extinction Rebellion also took place in London. And while there was no soup or milk spilled here, the 
 
 crowd had a similar message about the urgent need for action on climate change. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's so simple to get us off the streets. It's just to act on the climate and nature crisis. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: Now former U.S. President Barack Obama has a reality check for some of his fellow Democrats and his words are today's "that made us pause the 
 
 thought" and this is what he says. And I'll show to you. "Sometimes people just want to not feel as if they're walking on eggshells, and they want 
 
 some acknowledgement that life is messy." And Obama's speaking out on the subject of so-called cancel culture, and it's one that Democratic 
 
 strategists have reportedly been flagging privately for a while. 
 
Might the liberal base be so focused on weakness that they lose sight of the issues that affect voters lives? I will leave you with that for today. 
 
 Thank you very much for your company. Do stay right here. "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" is up next. I shall see you tomorrow. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
END