Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: One Dead, More than 10 Injured after Jerusalem Bombings; Police: Six Dead Plus Gunman in Virginia Walmart Shooting; Airline Brace for Travel at Pre-Pandemic Levels; Cristiano Ronaldo leaves Manchester United; Stew Leonard's CEO: Customers are looking for Ways to Save; Lawyer: Sam Bankman- Fried Ran FTX like a Personal Fiefdom. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired November 23, 2022 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST, FIRST MOVE: A warm welcome as always to "First Move" this Wednesday. We are following a number of meeting developing 
 
 stories for you this hour, including the mass shooting in the U.S. State of Virginia. Police are saying the gunman who opened fire inside a Walmart 
 
 store last night was an employee.
 
The attacker killed six people and injured four others. We are live on the scene with the latest. Plus, two explosions in Jerusalem today have left at 
 
 least one person dead and more than 10 injured. Police are still searching for suspects there.
 
And in China, hundreds of angry workers have clashed with police at a Foxconn factory in Zhengzhou. Social Media Video shows some of them 
 
 complaining about their pay and their working conditions. Foxconn runs the world's largest iPhone assembly site, which has been locked down since mid-
 
 October.
 
Selina Wang joins us now. Selina, you and I've talked about this site a number of times. We know the challenges that they faced with running this 
 
 closed loop system to try and stem the amount of COVID cases they have. What do you see as the catalyst and what are you hearing for this latest 
 
 outburst of frustration of anger clearly?
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, exactly Julia. I mean, what we're seeing here is anger and tensions blowing over because really, this has 
 
 been a problem now for weeks. Earlier, we had talked about viral videos showing these workers screaming out of the factory escaping, walking miles 
 
 to try and get away from these COVID restrictions.
 
Now we are seeing workers streaming out of their factory dorm rooms to protest and clashing with the police. Many of the law enforcement of those 
 
 videos you can see are wearing white hazmat suit. It appears that some of those clashes are turning violent with you can see jostling and pushing 
 
 around with these big crowds.
 
Now that footage you see there which has now been censored from Chinese social media and also Julia, will mention I've got it TV screen here in 
 
 China right in front of me this conversation, this report is also being censored. It shows that footage shows some of the protesters complaining 
 
 not only about their pay, but also poor sanitary living conditions before this, in this mid-October outbreak. We had also heard workers complaining 
 
 about subpar food and living conditions and again that viral video showing those workers fleeing.
 
But this is a critical time period right now for Apple and Foxconn desperately needs more workers especially ahead of this critical holiday 
 
 season. So after that mid-October outbreak, after that viral video of workers fleeing, Foxconn said it would be giving a one-time bonus 
 
 equivalent to 69 U.S. dollars if workers who left chose to return. It also said it would offer new workers or salary of 4 U.S. dollars per hour, but 
 
 just last week as well.
 
In a positive turn, Foxconn said more than 100,000 people signed up for its massive recruitment drive. But then in this footage Julia workers are heard 
 
 saying that Foxconn failed to keep their promise of a better bonus and pay package after they arrived to work at the plant, accusing Foxconn of 
 
 changing the salary packages. Workers in the videos are also saying that those who tested positive for COVID were not being separated from the rest 
 
 of the workforce.
 
So there's also fear of COVID spreading. Now in a statement in English, Foxconn denied all of those allegations and said the dorm rooms that 
 
 factory workers live in undergo standard procedures for disinfection. And we've talked about this before of how it's been a big blow to Apple the 
 
 company warning earlier this month that shipments of its latest products will be delayed because of these COVID restrictions.
 
It's also another reminder of the risks, Apple faces in relying so much on China for production. This country still stuck in this unpredictable cycle 
 
 of lock downs completely up ending people's lives the economy and global business, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Selina when you make a good point about Apple, but I, quite frankly it's not the people who are going to be delayed in getting their 
 
 iPhone or their iPhones this Christmas or beyond. It's that the workers as you've said, and illustrated so incredibly well in your reporting, the 
 
 fears of catching COVID, the fear of being a pariah, the fear that they're stuck in this for how long it happened, you know, goodness knows how long? 
 
 Yes, very challenging Selina Wang, thank you so much for that!
 
OK, let's get to Jerusalem now where one person has died and more than 10 people have been injured after twin bombings in the City. Hadas Gold is 
 
 live there with all the latest details. Hadas, it looks like we're calling it twin so coordinated bombings and also targeting civilians in this case, 
 
 what more do we know?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Julia, I'm at the scene of the first of these twin bombings. This is at a bus stop along probably the 
 
 busiest artery in and out of Jerusalem. The first attack, the first bomb took place just after 7 am at this location. You can see people gathered 
 
 behind me, people have been coming here after police cleared the scene.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
GOLD: They've been coming here to view the damage, to pray, to just come and see what happened here because the debris field from this first bombing 
 
 is so extensive that out into the highway just behind us here, it extends at least three lanes into the highway there. So the first explosion took 
 
 place here just after 7 am. And then 30 minutes later another explosion just down the hill from us, not very far away, also took place.
 
Police believe that in both instances, it was a bag or package of some kind that was placed at these bus stops, and then it was detonated, they believe 
 
 remotely. This indicates organization and sophistication of the time that police say they have not seen in years. Now one person was killed in the 
 
 bombing that happened at this location, he was identified as a 16-year-old Canadian-Israeli student, and at least 14 others were injured across the 
 
 two locations.
 
This though, was the most dangerous, the deadliest, most violent of those attacks. Now, this attack, like I said, they have not seen this type of 
 
 bombing in several years. And it's bringing back for many people memories of the Second Intifada, where explosions were seemed to be a regular 
 
 occurrence on buses at bus stations, at restaurants and the like.
 
This is obviously very alarming for Israeli authorities and they still have not identified a suspect and no militant group has actually taken 
 
 responsibility for the attack. Now while this has been a violent and deadly year for both Israelis and Palestinians. In fact, it's been the deadliest 
 
 for both sides that they have seen in many years.
 
This attack today it's a new escalation in the situation and so many people have been so fearful that something could turn this into a get a possible 
 
 third intifada. And this attack today is one of the first signs where for so many people, they're really starting to get flashbacks of the early 
 
 2000s of the Second Intifada, and you can now hear behind me or young people have come together they're starting to sing they're starting to add 
 
 prayers. They're starting to just come see the scene.
 
Now Israeli Prime Minister Yair Lapid has held security assessment and he did release a statement in the last hour. So he saying that this has been 
 
 different from what we have seen in recent years saying an extensive intelligence effort is now underway. That he says will lead us to find 
 
 these heinous terrorist those behind them and those who provided them with weapons, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: We'll continue to follow this story. Hadas Gold in Jerusalem for us there, thank you for that. To Ukraine, our officials are reporting a 
 
 new wave of Russian missile attacks across the country.
 
The Mayor of Kyiv sees an energy facility has been hit and he's urging residents to stay in shelters. In Zaporizhzhia region, the authorities say 
 
 Russian missiles hit a maternity ward and a newborn baby was among the victims. It comes as European lawmakers declare Russia a state sponsor of 
 
 terrorism for its attacks on civilian targets.
 
And in the meantime, gas prices are rising once again after Russia said it will reduce flows of its last natural gas pipeline to Europe, which ones 
 
 through Ukraine. The energy giant Gazprom says it will cut supplies from next Monday. Anna Stewart joins us on this now with all the details.
 
Anna, as I mentioned, this is the only remaining pipeline I believe that connects Russia and Russian gas to Europe, but I've got two questions 
 
 before you give us the details. How much gas is still being fed from Russia to Europe via this pipeline compared with what it was before the invasion 
 
 began and Moldova is, of course crucial to this story? How much of that is going to Moldova, specifically?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: So before the war in Ukraine, I'd say this is a pipeline that didn't receive a huge amount of attention. It accounted last 
 
 year based on the total Russian gas that was exported to Europe around 11 percent. And of that, when we look at Moldova 5.7 million cubic meters a 
 
 day goes to Moldova, that's around 13 percent of the gas that transits through that pipeline.
 
So we're looking at pretty small numbers in terms of Moldova, and particularly small numbers in terms of what Gazprom is saying here, which 
 
 is essentially it's going to reduce the gas transiting through that pipeline by the amount. It's accusing Ukraine of siphoning off from 
 
 Moldova, something Ukraine, of course, denies. It is a small amount, but of course, the issue at this stage is when we've had announcements from 
 
 Gazprom before, particularly when it comes to disruption or reducing supply in any way, it often starts very, very small.
 
We've seen this with Nord Stream one and before you know it; you've got no gas transiting through the pipeline at all. So I think that is the concern. 
 
 That is certainly why we're seeing a much bigger gas price reaction than you might imagine, given the amount we're talking about at this stage and 
 
 Gazprom saying this would be implemented from Monday.
 
CHATTERLEY: And this is always the key. It's the thin end of the wedge, when we're having this discussion. It feels if past history is anything to 
 
 go by. So explain that sort of market reaction that we're seeing and I guess it also plays into the fears that for all the storage capacity now 
 
 that that Europe's built for over the winter. The perception is it's still not enough.
 
STEWART: Yes, in terms of the gas storage facilities, Europe's done really well.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
STEWART: We often talk about this as quite a good news story at this stage and why are we seeing Gas prices? It has actually declined in recent 
 
 months. If you compare it to August we're in a much better position gas storage facilities 95 percent full.
 
Also the EU has struck new deals with all sorts of LNG suppliers around the world. Again, that is a good news story. The issue Julia is infrastructure 
 
 and the fact that gas storage facilities are nearly full and then actually in terms of LNG terminals, where ships can come in regasification 
 
 facilities.
 
They can't actually accept much more at this stage, there is an expectation that, of course, the EU will still need more gas than it has stored and it 
 
 would still rely somewhat on the gas that was receiving from Russia. And that is why we see that price reaction. And I think why there is so much 
 
 importance being placed this week on a meeting of Energy Ministers from the EU in terms of what to do next, in a price cap.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FRANCESCO STARACE, CEO, ENGEL GROUP: The prices we're paying in Europe for gas have nothing to do with actual prices of gas worldwide. And actually, I 
 
 think this logic should be challenged at every possible step. I think we should start introducing a gas price cap, allowing additional cargoes that 
 
 wouldn't be coming if this cap is strictly enforced and seeing how many of them actually are actually going above the cap?
 
I am concerned about the fact that we don't even try to do that and I think it is a mistake at European level. That this price cap is not enforced has 
 
 not been enforced before and is not enforced right away, because we're just losing time. It will eventually have to kick in.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEWART: You can hear the frustration there from the CEO of Engel. You've got many members, the EU actually the majority, I'd say including France, 
 
 Spain, and Italy all supporting a price cap. However, I suspect what's going to be announced tomorrow, but the EU Commission and we know what 
 
 they're trying to propose there, is what I would call the price cap light version.
 
It may not go nearly far enough for many of the countries to support in terms of the price cap. And Julia, we've had countries, including Germany 
 
 and the Netherlands, saying they don't really support price cap at all, because main reason that it doesn't really reduce demand and that's a very 
 
 painful but very effective tool in this gas crisis. And also that it could impact how you get gas from suppliers elsewhere on the market.
 
So there's still a huge division here I thought was very interesting. And a note from Bruegel this week that they point out that actually the division 
 
 in some ways mirrors the division we see a lot in the EU, with the sort of frugal north and the less frugal south or the East seem to be joining onto 
 
 that. What we're going to see tomorrow possibly the price cap lights version from the EU, from the analysts I speak to that won't go nearly far 
 
 enough in terms of limiting volatility on the gas price markets.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, the crucial point that you mentioned is that suppression of demand and actually we're seeing an astonishing amount of that and 
 
 people being more frugal with their energy use an incredibly careful but yes, it doesn't stop them trying, I guess. Anna Stewart, thank you so much 
 
 for that.
 
OK, now on to a developing story in the state of Virginia police. The six people have lost their lives after a gunman opened fire inside a Walmart 
 
 store, four others were injured. Police say the gunman who hasn't yet been named was a Walmart employee, and was found dead at the scene from what is 
 
 believed to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound.
 
Police say it could take days to process the scene of the incident. And CNN's Brian Todd joins us now. Brian, as I mentioned, the suspect here has 
 
 not yet been named. Do we have any sense of the ongoing investigation I'm sure into him and a potential motive in this tragedy?
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well Julia that is what police are working through this morning. What was the motive? They are not giving the 
 
 identification of the shooter because his next of kin have not been notified but they have been able to fill in a couple of gaps of information 
 
 that we were looking for earlier this morning and in the overnight hours.
 
As you mentioned, six victims are dead, the shooter is dead. So that's seven total dead, at least four people were wounded and are being treated 
 
 at local hospitals. Their condition is unknown at this time.
 
What the police Chief was able to do his name is Mark Solesky, the police Chief of Chesapeake. He was able to give us a timeline of just, when the 
 
 attack unfolded and how quickly officers got to the scene? The first 911 calls came in at 10:12 pm Eastern Time on Tuesday evening.
 
Officers arrived two minutes later at 10:14 pm. They entered the building at 10:16 pm. So between the first calls to police on the time that officers 
 
 enter the building a total of four minutes, they are rendered the scene safe at 11:20 pm Eastern Time and again, six victims dead, the shooter 
 
 dead.
 
The shooters name not being given but they did tell us that the shooter is an employee of the store. CNN found out from a law enforcement source that 
 
 this employee walked into a break room where people were gathered and opened fire and then later turned the gun on him. Our affiliate WTKR spoke 
 
 to the sister of a victim who survived the attack. Here's what she had to say.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He went in at 10 pm tonight and we received a phone call while his wife received a phone call in about 10:18 saying that he had 
 
 been shot. He clocks in at 10, so he hadn't even been there 10 minutes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TODD: And again, at least four people are in local hospitals being treated their condition unknown at this time. Police again not able to establish a 
 
 clear motive for this attack we asked them several times at this news conference a short time ago, whether there were any conflicts at the store 
 
 leading up to this.
 
They were not able to answer that question. We did ask them about weapons. They believe that the shooter used a pistol and they do not believe he used 
 
 any other weapons, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Brian Todd, thank you so much for that and any further developments, we will bring them to our viewers as we get them. Thank you 
 
 for your report. We're back after this. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". It's the busiest day of the year for travel, at least here in the United States is more than 50 million 
 
 Americans had offered their Thanksgiving holidays. 48,000 flights in fact is scheduled today and the low cost carrier Frontier which flies to 85 
 
 domestic locations and 16 international destinations is also trying to differentiate itself from its rivals with an all you can fly pass.
 
Yes, you heard me there are some caveats. Let's be clear, but in a nutshell, its $799. You can book a flight the day before travel for 
 
 domestic routes, and 10 days in advance for international travel. Unlimited flights are included each for the cost of one cent plus taxes, fees and 
 
 charges and they are also could blackout days which include certain holidays.
 
And I should mention that the price of the past jumps to nearly $2,000 in the second year. Much to discuss, Barry Biffle is the CEO of Frontier 
 
 Airlines and he joins us now. Barry, fantastic to have you with us! We'll talk about the go wild. I believe it's called pass in a second. But first, 
 
 I know you're anticipating a busy month for travel, just set the scene for us. What you're seeing and how it compares, even just to this time last 
 
 year?
 
BARRY BIFFLE, CEO, FRONTIER AIRLINES: Sure, thanks for having us on and we're really excited to carry you know, folks to see their friends and 
 
 their loved ones and there's going to be more people traveling this season than ever. I think a lot of that is due to the work from home kind of 
 
 creating more flexibility, which enables it to be less peakish. So, you know, in prior years, you know, Wednesday before and Sunday after were the 
 
 peak days.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
BIFFLE: And now we're seeing the outbound last almost a week in advance and return as well. So it's kind of its good enabling more people to travel 
 
 during the holiday season so lots of folks traveling.
 
CHATTERLEY: Which is a good sign here, and your comparisons that I think in anything particularly in the travel sector are a tough thing, but can you 
 
 compare prices this year to last year, we've talked nonstop about inflation and the rising input costs for all businesses, I think this year, what's it 
 
 meant for the tickets for you guys?
 
BIFFLE: Everybody getting their electricity, they've seen their gas at the pump, go up in price and so we have to pass on those costs for energy as 
 
 well. But you know, Frontier done a great job of making sure that we still have the lowest fares in the market and so people can still say, but 
 
 overall, the industry is higher, and they have to pass on those costs.
 
The good news, though, that we're seeing is that the incomes are higher as well and when we look at what incomes have done relative to our fares. 
 
 We're finding that more people find our fares more affordable to travel than prior to the pandemic.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, that's an interesting point, the relative measure here is vital. Just, if you can give me a ballpark on average, how much have prices 
 
 gone up?
 
BIFFLE: Well, I think across the industry, it's you know, it's in the 10 to 20 percent range.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, but you're saying less for you or about the same?
 
BIFFLE: Archer up in the 20 percent range, as well, but fortunately, we're passing on most of the savings in the form of low fares and so we've 
 
 increased our ancillary products. We've done a better job of selling options, and so forth and so that way, people can still save money, if they 
 
 want to choose, you know, less options.
 
CHATTERLEY: Here, it's fascinating. I've been looking at all the comments that you've made in recent weeks and one of the things that really leapt 
 
 out to me, was you saying that, in recent weeks, a third of your customers are traveling on Frontier, and they're doing so five or more times a year, 
 
 and actually, that's double what they were doing before the pandemic and perhaps are not just traveling with you. They're traveling with others, 
 
 too. I mean, Americans don't get that much holiday.
 
Let's be clear. So that says something really interesting about perhaps a new work environment, a new sense of people and their desire to travel. 
 
 Barry, what can you tell me about that? And do you believe it's sustainable, that kind of sort of travel?
 
BIFFLE: Yes, there is an explosion in leisure demand in the United States and I think there's always been the desire, but not necessarily the time 
 
 off, you know, compared to Europe as an example, in terms of days off. And so flexibility is giving that, you know kind of room to run, if you will 
 
 and so that's why we're seeing such an increase. And so, you know, I think this is probably not going to change, as long as work from home remains.
 
And I think there's too many people that have gotten a taste of this. And I think you're going to continue to see this for a lot of your professional 
 
 jobs and so especially when they get addicted to travel. I think that you're going to be tough to get them back in the office full time.
 
CHATTERLEY: No comment. Let's talk about the go wild pass, because I do I love these things but I often look at them in terms of a business decision 
 
 is perhaps a gimmick, and then you end up with more of a PR headache, because you get far more complaints afterwards that people can't travel. 
 
 There were no seats available --. Talk to me about how this is going to work? And how confident are you that this is going to be ultimately a PR 
 
 win, rather than anything else?
 
BIFFLE: So we think this is a win-win for our customers as well as Frontier because if you look over the last year, we had over 5 million seats go 
 
 empty. When we project it will have a similar number over the next 12 months and this gives customer's access to those seats. So as you said 
 
 earlier, if the seats are available domestically the day before, and if they're available international 10 days before you can have access to those 
 
 seats.
 
It's available over 300 days, a year; there are some holidays that are blacked out. But I'll point you to the third quarter, you know, we had an 
 
 83 percent load factor. And if you look at that, on average, we had still 30 empty seats per aircraft.
 
So there's a lot of availability and so I wouldn't say this is a gimmick. If you're someone that thinks that they could travel at least once a month, 
 
 this is a fantastic deal for you. And if you travel more than once a month, this is a no brainer.
 
CHATTERLEY: And if you have the flexibility to book the flight the day before, you're saying on average 30 seats available per flight up for grabs 
 
 that day before. So actually, the chances are if you can do that, and are willing to do that, you'll find a seat.
 
BIFFLE: Absolutely, so if you're an active retiree, or someone who is working from home that can work from anywhere, this is a fantastic deal. 
 
 And I think if you look at the International, you know, you just fly this once or twice in certain routes and just pay for it.
 
CHATTERLEY: It's interesting as well; I think that the broader space and it comes down to the challenges. I think at the last few years and 
 
 particularly what we saw with COVID. You obviously missed out; let's call it that on the spirit JetBlue consolidation that we've seen in the sector.
 
I know you've been quite sort of up front and I just wanted to get your views on sort of future organic versus inorganic growth and whether you see 
 
 other opportunities because you've said you still plan to double your size in four years and be three times the size by the end of the decade even if 
 
 we go into an economic slowdown.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Barry, do you think the sort of low price or lower priced tickets segment cushions you even in an economic slowdown, you can still 
 
 achieve that kind of growth?
 
BIFFLE: Well, look, there's probably not a scenario where you have a major economic slowdown, and you don't see the price of fuel come down, which is 
 
 our largest expense. But I think you also look to the fact that we have the lowest cost. We're best positioned to exploit this leisure demand explosion 
 
 that we've been talking about.
 
And I think if you look at the United States, especially we have constrained demand, which constrained aircraft capacity, there's 
 
 constrained pilots supply and so. I think this is going to be a little bit different. I mean, more than likely, at least the leisure, domestic United 
 
 States in the near International is likely to sidestep any recession, as long as it's not a major economic impact, just because there's more people 
 
 traveling from a leisure perspective, and we have constrained supply. So it will take a pretty big impact on the overall economy to put a dent in air 
 
 travel, given what we're seeing.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, makes sense to me very quickly on the fuel price contracts, though. How long are those contracts that you tend to sign? Or 
 
 how quickly can you benefit if fuel prices come down?
 
BIFFLE: So we do not currently have so if as soon as the price comes down, we benefit immediately. So we would expect if there is a major downturn 
 
 that those prices would come down. But, you know, going back to your other question about the JetBlue spirit deal, we think organic growth is going to 
 
 be fine, because with emerging, you'll have over 95 percent of the capacity that has 40 percent or higher cost than us.
 
So I think you're in a situation where Frontier really has no natural competitor. And from a consumer perspective, if you're looking for low 
 
 fares that are going to mean you're going to want to go to fly Frontier.com in the United States. So we think we're really positioned well.
 
CHATTERLEY: So that deal was nice to have but not necessary, in your view.
 
BIFFLE: Nice to have, I mean, we want it to be the premier ULCC in the United States. This is just a different path to getting there.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, we'll watch this phase. Good luck with the past as well. I'm interested to see how well it works. Barry Happy Thanksgiving! Thank 
 
 you for joining us on our show. Barry Biffle there at the Frontier Airlines great to chat to you, sir, thank you!
 
Now while we're talking aviation take a look at this dramatic video it shows what happens when a jet suffers a bird strike. Well houses this U.S. 
 
 Military plane was forced to return to Chicago's Midway Airport the head of the National Guard in fact was on board. Officials say the Air Force C 37 
 
 landed safely and without incident.
 
OK, coming up on "First Move", Football fever afoot, one of the world's most famous clubs could be up for sale pretty price tag though, that's 
 
 next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move"! And it's the last full day of stock market trading on Wall Street this week ahead of tomorrow's 
 
 Thanksgiving Day holiday. A pretty unchanged start to the session but of course the day is young. The bulls are barely biting as they look forward 
 
 to the big feast subdued trading today.
 
But still stocks near two month highs after a broad based rally on Tuesday that saw all the major averages rising more than 1 percent. And in the 
 
 meantime, developing news in the financial sector too today, Credit Suisse warning of yet another massive loss more than $1.5 billion in the fourth 
 
 quarter now expected.
 
The bank launching yet another corporate restructuring to shore up its finances, saying Wealth Management customers have been pulling billions 
 
 from their accounts as questions over the help of the bank mount.
 
And meanwhile, shares of Manchester United are opening higher once again after finishing up in nearly 15 percent on Tuesday the owners of the iconic 
 
 club saying they're kicking around the possibility of selling. Amanda Davies joins me now!
 
They didn't actually say that, but just ruminating a number of possibilities. But wow, Amanda, it's been a tumultuous time we had that 
 
 Cristiano Ronaldo interview his exit and now this I think the fans and investors though pretty happy.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORTS: Yes, I mean, you can say what a few weeks you could say what a few years?
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes.
 
DAVIES: --in terms of Manchester United. But the Glazers the phrase they used, they are looking at options as to what to do next with Manchester 
 
 United? But yes, after 17 years in charge, potentially, the club could be up for sale and what a prospect that is both Liverpool and Manchester 
 
 United two of the most storied historic football clubs not only in England, but in the world, potentially both up for sale at the same time.
 
You wonder if there's anybody in these parts who might be interested in owning a Premier League Football Club, but that news coming hot off the 
 
 heels that United terminated the contract of Cristiano Ronaldo, and it's really, really quite a sad end for one of United's most successful 
 
 legendary football.
 
As a player who was included in a famous Adidas advert just a couple of weeks ago, detailing the number seven's that have graced the pitch at Old 
 
 Trafford in the same breath as Eric Cantona, David Beckham, Bryan Robson and Cristiano Ronaldo is up there but after he took part in that explosive 
 
 interview with Piers Morgan, there really was only one end to this story.
 
The problem is you know it's not the way Manchester United do their business? They don't like airing their dirty laundry in public. And of 
 
 course, it means there's even more focus on what is happening at the Portugal camp here ahead of them kicking off their World Cup campaign 
 
 tomorrow against Ghana.
 
Every press conference this week, whether it's the players or the manager, Fernando Santosh they have been stormed with questions about what it means 
 
 for the camp. What is the disruption like in the campaign? Have people distracted by what is going on with Cristiano?
 
There was that somewhat awkward handshake you might remember with his now Former Manchester United Teammate, Bruno Fernandez. The word though 
 
 officially is that not even talking about it. It's had no impact. But that may be the case within the Portugal camp.
 
But the thing for Cristiano Ronaldo, he's always said he wants to be playing football. He still thinks he should be doing it at the top level. 
 
 And as of now, he doesn't have a club to rejoin at the end of this World Cup. So you presume if it hasn't happened already, there are plenty of 
 
 discussions going on behind the scenes. And we wait to see what impact that will have on him when he takes to the pitch?
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I had lots of questions for you and you've answered a lot of them in that. But I did watch that video and that handshake with his 
 
 former teammate and - at least to me he looked sad. So I think that's a good way to describe it in a way as sad end for someone who's incredibly 
 
 talented and what a relationship too?
 
I want to ask you, Amanda about what's going on there too? And I saw that the German team, showing some degree of protests at least over FIFA's 
 
 decision to ban those rainbow armbands which I feel like we're all talking about on a constant basis now around this World Cup.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: What happened there? And do you think other teams follow suit?
 
DAVIES: Yes, Germany have been one of the most vocal and the most visibly upset angry at FIFA's decision to stick to their guns really and punish any 
 
 player that was going to wear the "Onelove Armband" which a lot of the European teams had said they wanted their captains to do to promote 
 
 diversity and inclusion here standing in Qatar as we are where it is illegal to be gay or it's promoted so much anger from across the board 
 
 really.
 
Human rights organizations, the likes of Amnesty International football supporters associations and when UEFA is Working Group reacted to the news 
 
 from FIFA. They said there is more to come. We didn't know what that would be. There was some suggestion that Manuel Neuer Germany's Captain would 
 
 still wear the "Onelove Armband" and take the yellow card today.
 
He didn't do that. Germany's Interior Minister instead wore the armband in the royal box essentially stood next to the FIFA President Gianni 
 
 Infantino, and at the same time, Germany's players lined up for their team photo, and in really powerful image covered their mouths with their hands.
 
They issued a statement via social media explaining it and they said this. We wanted to use our captain's armband to take a stand for values that we 
 
 hold in the Germany national team diversity and mutual respect. Together with other nations we wanted our voices to be heard.
 
It wasn't about making a political statement. Human rights are non- negotiable. That should be taken for granted but its still isn't the case. That's why this message is so important to us. Denying us the armband is 
 
 the same as denying us a voice. We stand by our position.
 
We wait to see if FIFA take any action against them for that. And as you rightly say, Julia, we wait to see what other teams may do in terms of 
 
 following suit. But I can tell you I just had a bit of a cheer behind me. Germany were one up with some what 7, 15 minutes to go. But Japan have just 
 
 equalized--
 
CHATTERLEY: Wow!
 
DAVIES: --with15 minutes to go. Germany of course, trying to make amends for the disappointment when they went out in the group stage in 2018. They 
 
 talked about the importance of getting off on the right foot winning this opening game but as things stand being held by Japan 15 minutes to go.
 
CHATTERLEY: Right. Amanda amazing to have you with us! We're going to let you go now and you can go and watch exactly what's going on because I don't 
 
 want you missing any other goals. And I think as far as Germany is concerned, elegantly done. Thank you for that Amanda Davies there.
 
OK, still to come here on "First Move", it's almost turkey time in America; the CEO of Grocery Chain Stew Leonard's joins us to talk techy, and how 
 
 shoppers can gobble up some serious savings? That's up to the break stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move"! What's known as "Turkey Day" is almost here for millions of families across America. But a host of factors 
 
 from Avian Flu to bad weather has made some items on the Thanksgiving menu a lot more expensive this year.
 
Turkey prices have jumped 24 percent since last year, if you want mashed potatoes, they will cost around 20 percent more. And some ingredients for 
 
 your Thanksgiving pie are up between 23 and 75 percent. That's according to information resources. You can see that on the screen in front of you.
 
Now Grocery Chain's Stew Leonard says working with local vendors and farmers helps keeps its prices low. But CEO Stew Leonard Jr., says there 
 
 are some disruptions in the supply chain that they can't control either. And joining us now is Stu Leonard Jr.; he's the President and CEO of Stu 
 
 Leonard's Grocery Stores. Stu Happy Thanksgiving, great to have you on the show.
 
STEW LEONARD JR., CEO AND PRESIDENT STEW LEONARD'S: Thank you, Julia, I loved your - that people are gobbling the turkeys up right now for 
 
 Thanksgiving.
 
CHATTERLEY: And I can see you're surrounded by turkeys as well behind you. So we'll talk about those in a second too. But, you know, I always do that 
 
 introduction talking about rising food prices, because I know it prompts you to correct me because you told me actually what's really going on in 
 
 the store? So talk to me about rising prices and some of the challenges that you're facing.
 
LEONARD JR.: Well, you know, first of all, we don't hear about the prices a lot from our customers. You know our Turkey price were 269 for a free range 
 
 Turkey last year. For fresh and its 299 this year, that's 10 percent. I don't think customers are going to get the fresh shock. I've heard you 
 
 mentioned 20, 30 percent on some things.
 
We don't see that happening you know, right on the store floor. We do see customers returning the 2019 shopping patterns again. So they're coming in 
 
 the Thanksgiving meal Julia is not expensive. You know, I've seen a lot of numbers out there. But it's like $6 to $10 per person. That's not too bad 
 
 when you think of what you pay when you go to a restaurant or even McDonald's?
 
So, you know, customers want to get together with their families this year. They want to celebrate a great time of the year they love each other and 
 
 get together. And we're seeing that on the store floor right now for Thanksgiving.
 
CHATTERLEY: And we love that. Stew what do you mean by going back to 2019 style? Do you mean just simply everybody getting together in the way that 
 
 they would? Or you mean in terms of their buying behavior and what they're buying? Just explain that because that's interesting. Yes--
 
LEONARD JR.: You know I just talked to a few customers and they said we haven't gotten together with our family since 2018, 2019 because obviously 
 
 20 and 21 have been racked with all sorts of flus and COVID. So right now I feel like COVID is in our customers' rearview mirror.
 
And they just want to get together again and rejoice and see their uncle dance or their brothers, sisters and family members. So we're seeing a 
 
 unity come together. Look, prices are up. And we've had our farmers they've had increases in feed prices. You mentioned avian flu, which put an impact 
 
 on them.
 
You know, they have transportation costs going up looking at the price of fuel, both to put in their trucks that delivered to us in their tractors. 
 
 So we're not being tough with our suppliers, a lot of them are family businesses or local I'm not putting the arm on them, you know, and saying 
 
 I'm not going to accept the price. I'm not passing it all on to our customers, but I'm trying to be sensitive to people's pocketbooks and 
 
 wallets out there.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and you mentioned a great point about buying local. I think as well which can help try and reduce some of those added costs that 
 
 perhaps you don't realize you're paying like transport costs, particularly when energy prices and things are so high.
 
And I've seen you talk about something new there. I do think it is interesting for customers, not just for your store but elsewhere in this. 
 
 You talked about a kind of shark tank play when new supplies want to come to a grocery store and they offer discount, they offer bulk goods. And this 
 
 is something that consumers should be looking for wherever they are in the world perhaps and try and get those good deals when they're around.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
LEONARD JR.: Yep. And, look, every supermarket you shop in has specials every week. They have app deals. You know, there are deals out there. But 
 
 if you really want to save money this Thanksgiving, I'll tell you how to do it. And I better make sure none of our managers are listening right now.
 
Don't I - make it yourself? OK, you mentioned the price of potatoes are two bucks a pound roughly right now, to get them made by our chefs with cream 
 
 and butter of six bucks a pound. So if you put cream and butter and all that in you might pay, it might cost you $3 and pound at home. Why pay six 
 
 bucks and have the store do it for you? Make it yourself you'll save 50 percent boom right off the bat on your holiday meal.
 
CHATTERLEY: Your managers don't lying saying this to Stew because I know you pay them incredibly well. What are you talking about giving food 
 
 advice? I know you read YouTube star as well, because you've been giving advice on how to cook a turkey? How does one cook the proper the best 
 
 turkey? Can you give me a very swift synopsis?
 
LEONARD JR.: Well, here's what I would recommend Julia. Do not read the instructions on the back of the Turkey because--
 
CHATTERLEY: Don't, don't read those. OK.
 
LEONARD JR.: Don't read them because you know why everybody's oven temperature is different. People open their oven to face to Turkey, so you 
 
 never have the right temperature going on all the time. The key thing is have a great thermometer.
 
And that's what you want to do and get that internal temperature up. That'll be written on the sides of the back and right there 165 cooked by 
 
 temperature. I got one of these really cool modern thermometers a little expensive, but it's called a meter.
 
And you stick it in there and that links to your cell phone so you can sit around with your relatives and you know, have a drink or whatever and it'll 
 
 start beeping when the temperature comes up to the proper one.
 
So thermometer is a key you know. And you know something fun, my daughter recommended this. I'm going to take a cheese cloth and soak it in butter. 
 
 You know, Martha Stewart always says to put butter under the skin and everything for Turkey but we're going to actually drape the Turkey with 
 
 butter and see how that comes out tomorrow? I love trying new things.
 
CHATTERLEY: I have this genius device called a cell phone and I call my mom and dad and get their advice on how to do anything like this? Yes, exactly 
 
 don't even - YouTube that was a lovely kitchen by the way.
 
LEONARD JR.: Yes. We're going to have fun tomorrow. But you know what's going to make me feel extra special? We just finished a big turkey brigade 
 
 here at Stew Leonard's and we gave away 50,000 meals to the homeless and the needy. And we also gave our all our team members over 2000 here free 
 
 turkey for Thanksgiving.
 
So it's going to make me feel extra special tomorrow to take a bite of Turkey. And know that, you know, at least we've just tried to do our part 
 
 to help a lot of the less fortunate out at this holiday right now.
 
CHATTERLEY: Thanks for doing that Stew. Can I ask you quickly about hiring and jobs?
 
LEONARD JR.: Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: --into the holiday season as well. Talk to me about what about that? How challenging that still is or whether that's lessened and pay 
 
 increases too because I know that was a challenge this time last year?
 
LEONARD JR.: Everybody I've talked to labor is a huge issue out there in the market. And here's what you got to do. You got to pay for it. You know, 
 
 we were always you know, minimum wage was always $12, $13 $14 an hour. Now its 15 around New York area is going up to that but we're paying up to $17 
 
 an hour, just to get some seasonal help in here to help us with not only all of our turkey orders.
 
We're doing thousands of catering orders today. But also we got Christmas trees that just arrived and we're going to have to - we're going to have to 
 
 sell about 70,000 of those. So we've had to hire nearly 800 people at Stu Leonard's we've had to pay a lot extra.
 
But I have to look at labor today not as an expense but an investment. You know, we want to get the best people and take care of our customers. They 
 
 want a smooth sailing at the holidays with nice people that you know can help them with their purchases.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, good service requires good people and good people required paying well. Stew--
 
LEONARD JR.: You know--
 
CHATTERLEY: Thank you for joining us go on, yes last word.
 
LEONARD JR.: It's like a rock up front. You know, we're not skimping on customer service either like a rocket. You know rule one the customer's 
 
 always right. Rule two if the customer's ever wrong, reread rule number one. No, we want people leaving with a smile attitude at Leonard's this 
 
 Thanksgiving especially.
 
CHATTERLEY: Happy Thanksgiving Stew! You left me with a smile. So that's one extra--
 
LEONARD JR.: I love talking to you.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: You too.
 
LEONARD JR.: Thank you Julia. Happy Thanksgiving everybody!
 
CHATTERLEY: Happy Thanksgiving and good luck with the butterscotch cheese puff. Let us know.
 
LEONARD JR.: I'll let you know. Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Bye. OK, coming up here on "First Move" assets either missing or stolen we have new details on FTX's financial disarray next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move"! A personal fiefdom of San Bankman-Fried that's how FTX's bankruptcy lawyer described the failed 
 
 crypto exchange he also said a substantial amount of assets is missing, possibly stolen.
 
Paul R LA Monica joins us now. The Chaos continues. Do we have any sense of the amount of money that we're talking about being missing? I believe FTX 
 
 also has more than 130 affiliated companies. So it's actually not that easy to find surely?
 
PAUL R LA MONICA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Exactly Julia. This is going to be a complicated, convoluted mess for the lawyers to unravel, as you pointed out 
 
 a personal fiefdom was the way that it's being alleged that this company was run by Sam Bankman-Fried.
 
And there are lots of questions about just how much cash FTX really has and where it is? The new CEO had previously said that they were only able to 
 
 find about 560 million or so the company is claiming, though, that there's about 1.2 billion in cash on hand.
 
So that's obviously a pretty large discrepancy. I think it's going to take a long time to just go through the various paper trails and see what money 
 
 is there? And what if anything, customers might be able to get back as this very convoluted story continues to unravel?
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, because it was lawyers for FTX ahead of this hearing that were suggesting that they'd had or have $1.2 billion worth of cash, but it 
 
 was the new CEO of FTX John J. Ray III, that we know from Enron days that we're saying that all they've managed to sort of come together with was 
 
 around that $560 million figure.
 
So there's still huge questions about that and whether or not there's proof, something else I spotted from this hearing that they've been hit by 
 
 cyberattacks in recent days - that's since the bankruptcy filing?
 
MONICA: Yes, that's obviously very troublesome as well Julia. The hope of course, one of the promises of crypto is that your money is secured. It's 
 
 all about the blockchain. There's always a trail but as we know, there have been many instances in the Bitcoin ecosystem where hackers have been able 
 
 to get in and infiltrate even the larger supposedly more secure crypto giants.
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
MONICA: And as we now know, FTX, unfortunately, is a shell of its former self, not the unicorn worth over $30 billion, of course anymore. It's a 
 
 company that I think is really reeling. So it wouldn't be a huge surprise to learn that maybe there in addition to whatever else was going on under 
 
 San Bankman Fried, maybe the security issues and protocols were possibly lack as well.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. I mean, we have no clue what actually was hit with the cyberattacks? But when you've got those talking now are looking at this and 
 
 saying there's a total lack of centralized cash control of any real form, then the concerns clearly mount. Paul great to have you with us!
 
MONICA: Very troublesome to put--
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, very - Paul R LA Monica, thank you so much for that. And that's it for the show. If you've missed any of our interviews today, 
 
 there'll be on my Twitter, and Instagram pages search for @jchatterleycnn. "Connect the World" with Becky Anderson is up next, and I'll see you 
 
 tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END