Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Calen Carr is Interviewed about the World Cup; Dramatic Video of Shootout with Teenager; Reid Hoffman is Interviewed about Tech Layoffs. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired December 02, 2022 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[06:30:00] 
 
CHRISTIAN PULISIC, TEAM USA: It was very painful and it - it just, you know, that bone is there for a reason, to protect you, I think, and I - I hit it well. And it was sore. But, like I said, I'm getting better. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: Says he's getting better. Tomorrow the United States is going to take on Netherlands in a win or go home match. And if America wins, they would play the winner of the Australia/Argentina match. 
 
Also, in an extraordinary finale, you have to see this, the underdogs, Japan, eliminating four-time World Cup champions Germany in a stunning 2-1 victory that knocked -- they - they beat Spain and knocked Germany out. So, we'll tell you what fans could expect headed into tomorrow's match. We'll bring in our analyst and host for Major League Soccer and former MLS player himself, Calen Carr. 
 
Tell us what to watch.
 
CALEN CARR, FORMER MLS PLAYER: Yes, I mean, anything can happen. And I think Japan proved that at this point. 
 
For the U.S., we're going to have all eyes right now rightly focused on Christian Pulisic and his health and availability. I'd expect to see him start. I can't imagine a scenario where he doesn't come on the pitch. And in that same press conference, you know, they asked him, they said, hey, you finally had your moment because we missed the last World Cup and now he came back and had this crucial goal to send us through. 
 
But what I liked what he said is, he's like, I hope this wasn't my moment. 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: I loved that. 
 
CARR: Yes. He's -
 
HARLOW: And we're going to play that for people next hour. It's so great. CARR: I - I hope that there's more ahead. I think that's what I love
 
 about the personality of this team.
 
LEMON: But they -- it's him and Josh Sargent are this - they're -- they're day to day. 
 
CARR: Right. 
 
LEMON: So, what happens if they don't play? What do you think that mean? 
 
CARR: It's a good question. There's a couple options here. I think, you know, especially on the winger position, you could see Brendan Aaronson coming in. He came in at halftime for Christian Pulisic. We do have Sergio Dest (ph) at that position, Tim Ream, maybe you move him around. Gio Reyna is another guy we've looked at. So, I think there's some options upfront, but I would expect to see Christian in there from the start. 
 
HARLOW: So, what happens - so, the U.S. is going to win tomorrow, you know, just -- 
 
CARR: I like that. I like that.
 
COLLINS: Fingers crossed. 
 
HARLOW: And - and then what happens? Then, how do they need -- what do they need to do to win the whole shebang. 
 
CARR: Well, it is tough to get to far ahead of yourself here.
 
LEMON: A lot. 
 
CARR: But I do love that - that attitude. But, you know, the fact that this is the youngest team in the World Cup, the starting lineup, it is the youngest team. And we have - you know, even when you look at the captain, Tyler Adams, who I saw growing up here in Major League Soccer with the Red Bulls and then has now become the star and captain of this team, really the heartbeat of the team, you know, now America is really getting a chance to learn about these guys and I think the personality of the group. 
 
So, they'll embrace being underdogs against Netherlands. It is a big task. If you look at some of the players on that - on that side, you have Virgil van Dijk who's one of the best defenders in the world. And Gakpo is, you know, on fire, scored in every game so far in the world cup for Netherlands.
 
HARLOW: Yes. 
 
CARR: So, it's going to be a tough task. If you get past that, oh, no problem, guess who you have waiting for you, potentially Lionel Messi and Argentina in his last World Cup.
 
HARLOW: Just that. CARR: So, you know, this is -
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
COLLINS: Yes, no - no pressure.
 
CARR: Good stuff.
 
COLLINS: But can we - can we talk about what happened yesterday, Japan upsetting Spain, knocking Germany out. I mean this was - this basically changed what everyone thought the end of this World Cup was - we get to the knockout stage was going to look like. 
 
CARR: Yes, if you came into the tournament and you looked at this group and you say, well, Spain and Germany, two powerhouses, they're going through. Nothing is going to stop them from going through. But Japan had something else to say, beat both of them. You know, did take a little bit of a controversial call whether that ball was fully over the line or not, was able to keep it in. 
 
But I think the tournament has had some big surprises. The U.S. actually lost to Japan before the tournament and everybody was like, oh, no, we're going to struggle. Well, it actually doesn't look so bad now looking back at it. 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
CARR: This Japan team is quality. 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
LEMON: Ninety to one that the U.S. takes it all. I mean, look, so you're saying there is a chance.
 
HARLOW: Why you got to be - why you got to be Debbie Downer this morning? 
 
LEMON: No, I'm not. I'm saying there -- I'm saying there's a chance. I'm not Donny Downer. I'm just saying, there is a chance. Ninety, you know, and it's good, as we were saying before in the break, it's good to have an underdog attitude. 
 
CARR: Yes, I think we'll - that will suit this team in particular. And, look, you know, the -- the bigger mission, I think, is to grow the sport here. And the fact that this team is - is really sort of capturing the attention of - of the world in some ways and changing the - the perception of American soccer. We've seen the women's side, in the past, really capture the - the attention of the world and - and win the World Cup. The men still have a ways to go.
 
HARLOW: A few times the women won the World Cup. 
 
CARR: Yes, exactly. Yes. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. CARR: And so, you know, just the idea that we can continue to grow the sport here. The next World Cup, by the way, is coming here. It's in 2026. It's going to be in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. So, the idea that this young team will then be in their prime by then, that would be fantastic. But, hey, I love the optimism. Don, we've got to bring you to the team. 
 
LEMON: Yes. I'm - I'm there. 
 
COLLINS: He's coming. 
 
CARR: (INAUDIBLE).
 
LEMON: Yes, thank you.
 
COLLINS: All right, 10:00 a.m. tomorrow, we'll be watching. 
 
CARR: Awesome.
 
LEMON: Take care. Good to see you.
 
COLLINS: Thank you so much for joining us.
 
CARR: Thank you.
 
LEMON: A major defeat for former President Trump. Why an appeals court says a special master should never have been appointed in review the documents seized at Mar-a-Lago in the first place. 
 
HARLOW: Also, we have chilling new body camera video from a deadly shootout with a teenage killer in Raleigh. What it shows ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:39:28]
 
LEMON: Welcome back to CNN THIS MORNING.
 
New this morning, police in Raleigh, North Carolina, are releasing chilling now body cam video from officer's three hour shootout and standoff with a 15-year-old mass shooting suspect. The footage begins after the attack which left five people dead. 
 
CNN's Ryan Young joins us now with the very latest. 
 
Good morning to you, Ryan. 
 
What do we see on this new body cam video? 
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It's very chilling. You've got to think, though, this entire community is still asking a lot of questions. There's still been no motive provided. And when you think about the victims in this case, you had two women just in their neighborhood, someone else on a jogging trail, and an officer going to work. 
 <br>[06:40:05]
 
So many questions left unanswered and hopefully this video starts showing how dangerous this was for officers who were trying to bring the suspect into custody. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
YOUNG: Police releasing dramatic body cam footage from the October 3rd mass shooting in Raleigh, North Carolina. A 15-year-old boy allegedly killed five people, including his older brother and an off-duty police officer. After an hour's long manhunt, K-9 officers tracked him down while he was barricaded inside of a barn-like building in the woods according to police body cam video. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE). Back further. Find cover.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where's he hit? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right knee. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All right, put a tourniquet on it. Get a tourniquet on his right knee.
 
YOUNG: At one point in the video, an officer is struck by gunfire, while multiple officers continue to fire back. Other officers are applying a tourniquet to his leg. After firing 23 shots, Raleigh officers establish a perimeter around the building before going in and finding the suspect wounded according to a preliminary police report released in October. Investigators say the suspect had a shotgun and shells nearby him. 
 
The suspect has not been charged. However, the Wake County district attorney has said her office intends charging the 15-year-old as an adult. In a statement obtained by a CNN affiliate, WTVD, in October, the suspect's parents saying they don't understand why this happened, writing, quote, there were never any indications or warning signs that their son was capable of doing anything like this. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
YOUNG: Yes, Don, me and my team, we walked the neighborhood after that shooting. We were talking to neighbors for at least two days afterwards. They all were still in shock because nothing like this, of course, had ever happened in their neighborhood. But, still, they were just baffled about he lack of information they were getting. 
 
One of the questions right now is, why hasn't that teen faced any charges since he survived the shooting. How it's been explained to me by investigators there is that he first has to get well enough to be able to stand in court so he can be charged then as an adult. 
 
But this happened back in October, so you can understand why some folks are still very frustrated about why this is taking so long. 
 
LEMON: Ryan Young, thank you very much. HARLOW: So, ahead, what is going on with all of these layoffs in
 
 Silicon Valley? The co-founder of LinkedIn, one of the best-known venture capitalists there, Reid Hoffman, joins us with his take next. 
 
Plus, this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRINCE HARRY (ph): No one sees what's happened behind closed doors. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: It's the duke and duchess of Sussex like you've never seen them before. A look at the trailer for their new tell-all Netflix docuseries.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:46:47]
 
HARLOW: A wave of widespread layoffs in the tech industry. Big companies, like Meta, formerly Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, all announcing really significant job cuts in just the past few weeks. So, we wanted to know, what is happening in Silicon Valley. 
 
So, I sat down with someone who knows Silicon Valley better than pretty much anyone, Reid Hoffman. He cofounded LinkedIn, was one of Facebook's first investors. He's a partner at venture capital firm Graylock and recently launched an artificial intelligence startup called Inflection. 
 
Here's that conversation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARLOW: Reid, thanks for the time. 
 
REID HOFFMAN, CO-FOUNDER, LINKEDIN: Always great to be here with you, Poppy. 
 
HARLOW: So, what is happening in Silicon Valley? It seems like this is quite a moment of crisis. Why? 
 
HOFFMAN: Well, you know, those of us who are a little older have lived through the kind of bear markets and retractions before. There's still a lot of energy in technology, it's just that each entity and each company now goes, as opposed to trying to do everything, we have to do a few things really well. And, ultimately, that's better for the industries, that's better for society. Obviously, there's a lot of pain in the dislocation (ph), there's -- you know, layoffs are never a good thing. But - but I think that's what's going through. I don't think this is like a - you know, like of like, for whom the bell tolls moment. 
 
HARLOW: Right.
 
HOFFMAN: I think it's a - it's a - it's a refocusing moment. 
 
HARLOW: You were one of the first investors in Facebook. Do you think, looking at it now, it is a net positive for the world and society and truth, or not?
 
HOFFMAN: Yes, so I think -- well, truth is, I think, a little bit more complicated. I do think it's a net positive. I know that's a little bit of a contrarian thing to say these days. But part of the reason I think that is, we -- we always kind of focus on, well, there's these vaccine deniers and these people, you know, spouting crazy theories like pizza-gate and look at that. And you go, OK, that's crazy. QAnon, et cetera, crazy. 
 
But - but, on the other hand, there's tons of people who are sharing like, you know, here's my daily life experience, and here I'm staying connected with my family and my friends and all the rest. I mean when - when you have, you know, over a billion people using the share (ph), that all of this kind of good, social fabric kind of goes unreported. And I do think that there's information flow there that flows in a good way despite the fact that one can pull up examples, just like one can pull up examples out of the internet that are like, well, that's crazy or that's terrible. And so I think it is a net positive. 
 
Now, on the truth and (INAUDIBLE) point -
 
HARLOW: People are dying from the crazy. Some people are dying from the crazy. 
 
HOFFMAN: Yes.
 
HARLOW: Like, and I wonder if - you know what I - I mean, QAnon conspiracy theories have led to actual violence. 
 
HOFFMAN: Yes. I 100 percent think that's a problem and -- and it needs work. But, by the way, people are dying from driving on highways too and we don't say stop driving on highway, right? I mean it's --
 
HARLOW: Except - except companies like Facebook are making money off of this. 
 
HOFFMAN: Well, but then again you say, well, people are selling cars and so forth. I mean I think - I think for the -- look, I think -- I'm not trying so say there are no issues and it can't be improved. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. Yes.
 
HOFFMAN: What I am saying is, the fact that it - it's generally thought of as kind of a -- a kind of den of - of complete disaster -
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
HOFFMAN: You know, is kind of like highlighting the fact that there was a drunk driver on the highway that caused an accident say --
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 <br>[06:50:06]
 
HOFFMAN: There is - there goes the whole highway system. 
 
HARLOW: How do you make it better and safer, for when my kids are old enough to get on the platforms, they're more protected? 
 
HOFFMAN: So, I think there's two or three variables. So, one variable is to say, I think one of the legitimate criticisms of social media is that because they're pursuing engagements and clicks and time that it tends to orient towards agitation, towards division, towards anger, towards fear, towards, you know, disregard. And you say, well, OK, let's try to create like kind of the tuning of the algorithms, the tuning of what's going on to contain that sum. Obviously, some anger or disregard is important. You say, you know, you know, a manufacturer is putting lead in children's toys. You say, I should be angry, right?
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
HOFFMAN: But like try to do that generally. 
 
I also think that freedom of reach and freedom of speech are not the same thing. So I should be able to say the moon is made out of blue cheese or the Holocaust never happened, you know, both of which are kind of crazy town statements, but that doesn't mean that it should necessarily be spread. And when there is -- when there is kind of things that are going on that have, you know, kind of damage, especially, for example, things that would lead to violence or lead to, you know, kind of, you know, anything that kind of - that has like significant human suffering -
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
HOFFMAN: And has this kind of truth coefficient, well, you can figure out, I mean this is part of the genius of technology, how to tune that down some. Doesn't mean zero errors, just like no zero errors on the highway, but you can make it less. And that's what I think we should be focused on. 
 
HARLOW: So, can we talk about that as related to Elon Musk, who you've called -- a few years ago you called him, quote, a national treasure. 
 
HOFFMAN: And, by the way -
 
HARLOW: And he's saying there is not enough free speech on Twitter and I'm changing it. Are you worried at all about how he's running Twitter? 
 
HOFFMAN: So, the short answer is, of course, yes. I mean Elon, I do think, is a national treasure. Revolutionized, re-brought in, reinvented the space industry. The -- brought in the new satellite industry. The satellite industry that helped Ukraine. Revolutionized the auto industry for bringing back electric vehicles and making that kind of greening of the world important. All of which is important treasures. 
 
Now, the -- those are engineering problems. One of the things when you get to Twitter, that's a human problem. 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
HOFFMAN: That's a - that's a problem of how do - how do people kind of work together? And people are messy. They're not -- they don't fit in a simple engineering system and a simple kind of like, hey, it's just a freedom of speech question, is a too - is an overly simplistic thing. 
 
HARLOW: You've co-founded the first company since you sold LinkedIn to Microsoft and it's about artificial intelligence. It's called Inflection. Is it going to make our lives better or is AI going to take away our jobs and replace us? 
 
HOFFMAN: So, Inflection, we haven't revealed the product yet. You know, our hope is to make our lives a lot better. Actually, in fact, with AI, the very popular discussion about AI is, you know, the robots, ala terminators coming for your lives, oh, no, they're not coming for your lives, they're coming for your jobs. And it's - and it's just like -- it's like technology is always like an amplification. Actually, I think that's what we're going to see in AI. 
 
HARLOW: TikTok. This week the governor of South Dakota, Kristi Noem, banned TikTok from all government devices because of security concerns. I just want to note for our viewer, your firm, Graylock, is a shareholder in TikTok's owner, which is ByteDance, through your investment in Musical.ly, and there are major concerns, not just from her, from high-ranking members of both parties that don't think TikTok is safe to operate in the United States because of the data and the accessibility of the Chinese government. Do you believe TikTok operating in the U.S. is a national security concern? 
 
HOFFMAN: I don't think today it's a national security concern, but I don't discount the issue that we should pay attention to that it could evolve to do that because, you know, look, if you look at it today, it's like, you know, a bunch of people creating short form videos, mostly around entertainment, some are about learning, you know, et cetera. But on the other hand, if you said, well, say they were doing a map and they understood where everyone was and they understood, you know, kind of like they used it to influence by outside foreign agent, you know, our political - you know, what's going on in politics, those kinds of things, you know, those kinds of things would be future concerns. I don't think those concerns are present today. But I think the question and how to navigate those future concerns, it's a good thing to bring up the question. 
 
I think banning it today is a political move to grand stand given that there is no current like activity threat. 
 
HARLOW: All right, we're going to end on something you're not expecting. You gave a commencement address at Vanderbilt a few months ago, not on big tech, not on what any of us would expect, but a commencement address on friendship. 
 <br>[06:55:07]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOFFMAN: I'm the LinkedIn guy. I'm not going to tell you otherwise. Your network's important. But more than that, friends will be absolutely central to your sense of happiness, connection, and meaning. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: Why? 
 
HOFFMAN: Well, you know, these moments, commencements, are these special moments in people's lives by which they go, I'm emerging from university. I'm now kind of heading out to society. I'm going to have a -- you know, I'm going to do work. I'm going to have a life. I'm going to have a family. I'm going to do all these things. What is the most important things that you learn in order to do that? And I think that, you know, part of what makes all of our lives so kind of impactful, meaningful, capable is our friendships, right? You know, life is a team sport. We go through it with our friends. And I think focusing on that is really important. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARLOW: Unexpected advice from a tech mogul. 
 
Reid Hoffman, thank you for that conversation. 
 
COLLINS: Such an interesting one.
 
Also just in, Formula One has just cancelled next year's Chinese Grand Prix due to Covid restrictions - or due to Covid, I should say, as protests over those restrictions have been sweeping the nation. We'll have details for you ahead. 
 
LEMON: Plus, Harrison Ford heading back to the silver screen in his iconic role as Indiana Jones. See what they did to hide his age. He looks just fine.
 
COLLINS: I didn't know that was an option.
 
HARLOW: He's always -
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)