Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Iranian Official Says Fire At Tehran Prison Now Under Control; Russia Launches Hundreds Of Missile Strikes In The Past Week; "Star Wars" Legend Made Ambassador For Ukraine's "Army Of Drones" Project; New Footage Shows Congressional Leaders Scrambling On January 6; Biden Bypasses Key Western States In Delicate Midterm Balancing Act; Bodies Pulled From Oklahoma River As Police Search For Four Friends Who Vanished While Bicycling. Aired 4-5p ET

Aired October 15, 2022 - 16:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[16:00:42]
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN HOST: You are live in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Jim Acosta in Washington. 
 
And we begin this hour with breaking news in Iran where large plumes of smoke can be seen rising from an infamous prison in Tehran. Officials there confirming a fire has been set by the inmates of that prison. 
 
Let's go to CNN's Jomana Karadsheh who is following the latest for us. Jomana, what more are you learning? 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Jim, we're still trying to find out what really is happening or happened at the Evin Prison, that notorious facility in northern Tehran. Of course, that prison that where many political prisoners, human rights activists, journalists, foreigners are kept in Tehran. 
 
Now, an hour ago or so, we started seeing video emerging on social media showing this large plume of smoke billowing over Evin Prison and according to the social media videos, we have also received, you could hear some gunfire as well, alarms going off, according to the activist group 1500tasvir that put out this video. They say that special forces were heading to Evin Prison. 
 
Now according to the government's account of what is going on, they say that this was a fire that was started by these rioters, thugs as they describe them who set fire to the clothing warehouse inside the prison. They say the situation is under control. The fire is being extinguished and they're saying that firemen are there and that these rioters have been separated from other prisoners. 
 
Now, in the last few moments, as well, Jim, we are getting information coming in from the pro-reform activist outlet Iran Wire that says that it has spoken to a source inside Evin Prison and according to that source, there was a revolt in the part of the prison and a fire ensued. We can't independently verify this report. We are still working to gather information. What I can tell you is there's a lot of concern right now for the safety of those political prisoners. I've been speaking to a human rights activist, Iranian Americans who
 
 are very concerned about what might be going on in Evin Prison. The secretary general of Amnesty International, Agnes Callamard, also tweeting out, saying, "The notorious Evin Prison in Iran is reported to be on fire with gunshots heard. This must be terrifying. Let's recall that the authorities have the legal obligation to respect and protect the lives and well-being of all prisoners." 
 
So still unclear on what really happened, but a lot of concern right now, Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: And in a very volatile time in Iran. Jomana Karadsheh, thank you very much for that report and that update. We appreciate it. 
 
Deadly missile attacks meanwhile so-called Kamikaze drone strikes and civilian carnage. This is the new reality in Russia's war against Ukraine which has erupted violently once again. Russia launched hundreds of strikes in the past week alone including yesterday and today in Zaporizhzhia where it rained down drones and missiles. 
 
And those are not the only weapons that Russia is wielding in this war. Rape and sexual violence are also part of Russia's military strategy according to a United Nations envoy. Ukraine, though, continues to fight back. After Ukrainian troops reclaimed parts of the Kherson region, Moscow announced they were pulling civilians out of that area. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen joins me now from Kyiv. Fred, a lot going on in the battle in Ukraine. What are you seeing? 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi there, Jim. Well, first of all, we're seeing a lot of these strikes going on by the Russians. And, you know, throughout this entire week, we saw these missile strikes here in the Ukrainian capital but in so many other cities in Ukraine as well. But if you look specifically at those southern cities like Zaporizhzhia, the one that you were just talking about, those are really the ones that are getting absolutely hammered by those long distance Russian rockets. 
 
And one of the things the Ukrainians are saying that's really different now than has been at the early stages of the war is that the Russians are now using the S-300 missiles. Those are missiles that are used to shoot down aircraft. But now the Russians are using them at ground targets. But the thing is if you use them in the ground, in a surface-to-surface configuration, then they're wildly inaccurate and obviously cause a lot of civilian casualties in the places that they hit. 
 
Now what happened in Zaporizhzhia overnight is really quite telling because the Ukrainians say that first of all it was 10 of these S-300 missiles that hit that area and then it was the Kamikaze drones that came in and hit some of that critical infrastructure. 
 <br>[16:05:09]
 
And what the Russians have been doing throughout this entire week really is hitting a lot of the energy infrastructure of this country. The Ukrainians at some point came out and said that 30 percent of the energy infrastructure of this country had already been hit by the Russians. The Ukrainians are able to repair it fairly quickly, but of course it's something that is causing a lot of damage that happened there in Zaporizhzhia. 
 
And also in the Kyiv region where the authorities there telling us that areas were hit here as well. The energy infrastructure in several strikes using those Kamikaze drones as well. So certainly it's a weapon that's becoming more prominent but it's also being used in conjunction with those longer distance missiles, causing out problems for the Ukrainians, but we have to point out, Jim, that at the same time, the Ukrainians are still making headway they say on the battlefield specifically in the south of the country, Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes, so giving Putin all the fits that he can handle these days. Fred Pleitgen, thank you very much. 
 
As President Zelenskyy wages what he calls a battle of good versus evil, he's asked a hero of the civil screen to join the resistance. "Star Wars" legend Mark Hamill known to audience as of course across the world as Luke Skywalker was asked by Zelenskyy to serve as an ambassador for Ukraine's Army of Drone's Project. The mission, collecting money and equipment to help Ukraine be supplied with drones in its fight against Russia. 
 
Actor and Jedi master Mark Hamill joins me now. 
 
Mark, it's an absolute thrill to have you with us. We appreciate it so much. The team is very excited. We're giddy. Let's be honest about it. But we got some important stuff to discuss here. And that is what is going on in Ukraine. If you can, take me back to that moment of speaking with Zelenskyy who has compared Russia to the Evil Empire. What was that conversation like? 
 
MARK HAMILL, AMBASSADOR, UNITED24: Well, like everyone else that follows the news, I've watched since the end of February when a sovereign nation was invaded by hostile foreign power. Something we haven't seen in my lifetime. I guess goes back to World War II. But when my business representative said that President Zelenskyy wanted to have a virtual meeting with me and I was stunned. 
 
I thought, maybe somebody's pranking me. I mean, let's confirm that it's the truth and once we realized it was, I was honored to be able to meet with him. And as you said, he asked me to join his UNITED24 project, which is the fundraising platform to help in the war for Ukraine. And specifically become -- go ahead. 
 
ACOSTA: No, I was just going to say, let's talk about that. Ukraine is asking for more help as Russia steps up these Kamikaze drone attacks across the country. And that's where you come in. You've traded droids for drones and let's talk about that. 
 
HAMILL: I know. Army of Drones. It does sound like another episode of "Star Wars." 
 
ACOSTA: It does. 
 
HAMILL: But it's terrifyingly real. I mean, you see them bombing civilian targets. And even a children's playground. It's just awful. But Ukraine needs drones. It's as simple as that. Drones define war outcomes and they need drones to monitor and protect their people, their land. Drones are their eyes in the skies. So we're asking people to go to the Web site and contribute whatever they can and not just monetarily. 
 
If they have drones, they can donate drones. And I know a lot of drone enthusiasts have multiple drones. So that's something they could do as well. They can go to U24.gov, G-O-V, .ua/dronation. D-R-O-N-A-T-I-O-N. U24.gov.ua/dronation. And anything you can afford would be greatly appreciated by the Ukrainian people. And I'm, you know, everyone expected the nation just to roll over and not put up a fight. 
 
ACOSTA: Right. 
 
HAMILL: So to see these people unite so heroically, it's been nothing short of inspirational. I mean, I'm a pretend hero in those movies. These are real-life heroes and I feel it's my obligation to help in any small way I can. 
 
ACOSTA: No question about it, Mark. And, you know, we've done segments with some of these drone pilots in Ukraine and they say it's absolutely essential in their fight against the Russians to have this kind of equipment and technology. So you're absolutely spot on there. 
 
And I want to talk to you about the Russians because that's an important topic to delve into as well with you. 
 <br>[16:10:04]
 
When the original "Star Wars" came out in 1977, the Soviet Union famously would not allow it to be shown in theaters or on TV screens for years and years. I guess what did you think about that at the time and more importantly, more critically, what do you think about seeing the information crackdown and censorship that's happening in Russia now? They're not a communist nation anymore, but they are very much a dictatorship that has cracked down on the media. 
 
HAMILL: Well, when they told us that they had banned "Star Wars" in Russia, I said good. They banned the Beatles, too. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
ACOSTA: That's true. 
 
HAMILL: So -- but all joking aside, it is frightening and I'm not the one that made the analogy. President Zelenskyy himself referred to Russia as the Evil Empire. And it's encouraging to see how amongst the people in Russia, there's backlash towards the war with, you know, eight-miles long line of cars getting, having these young men try to get out of being drafted. But it's, you know, there's no freedom there. It's frightening. I mean, and he's backed into a corner now, which is
 
 a shame. I wish there was a way he could save face and give up this terrible thing that he's done but, you know, who knows what's going to happen? You know, stay tuned. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. Right. Well, I mean, it's a plot line that you're very familiar with. I mean, Mark, you played a character that had real bipartisan appeal, universal appeal, global appeal for many years. Let's talk some politics here. In real life, though, you're not afraid to use that platform. Use your voice. Offer your opinion. On what's happening now, not only what's happening around the world with what's going on in Ukraine, but also on domestic politics here in the United States. 
 
And sometimes even with a "Star Wars" theme. Here's a tweet you put out after the 2020 election, putting Obama up on screen here, comparing Obama to "New Hope," Trump to the "Empire Strikes Back" and Joe Biden to "Return of the Jedi." I have to ask you, because I follow your tweets and I see what you do on social media, why did you decide to become more outspoken on social media even if it meant that some of your fans would disagree with you? What is it about this moment in history? 
 
HAMILL: Well, I think we're in a particularly perilous time in the history because specifically, that the former president has convinced his followers that the election was stolen. Now, you're entitled to your own opinion. You're not entitled to your own facts. So this is a Republican Party that we've never seen before. A party of extremism and conspiracy theories. And so I'm hoping that the coalition that we can form are Democrats, independents and what I call reasonable Republicans. 
 
I mean, the most divisive president in our history has ironically united so many disparate parties and points of view. I mean, you know, I mean, Bill Kristol follows me now. OK? There's a good example. But just across the board, there's so many what I call, you know, and I have many friends that are in independents. I have many friends that are Republicans. But I'm talking about the older, reasonable Republican Party. Not the Republican Party of today. 
 
And I don't know. I think with social media, your personality comes out. You know, I mean, you can only tweet cute baby videos and what my kids call my dumb dad jokes. 
 
ACOSTA: I hear that a lot, too. 
 
HAMILL: I said, wait a minute, what are you talking about, dad -- yes, yes, OK, and I said what are you talking about dad jokes? I have three kids. And they said, well, full of puns, you know, obvious humor, and my third son said, not funny. Why you? 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. 
 
HAMILL: But -- no, I think your personality does come through and I really think it's important. It's so scary. You know, you watch January 6th. You see how perilously close we came to a constitutional crisis. 
 
ACOSTA: That's right. 
 
HAMILL: And these people are learning with their fake elector schemes and putting in secretaries of states and election officials. They've learned and I think we have to be on guard for not only 2022, but 2024. It's really scary. I never thought that democracy was so fragile, but I think in everyone's best interest to be aware of that and stand up and fight against people that would like to see an autocracy rather than a democracy. 
 <br>[16:15:11]
 
ACOSTA: And Mark, I have to ask you a couple of "Star Wars" questions here because, you know, it's what I want to do and it's want I want to do for a very long time. Since I was -- since my dad held my hand, you know, I was 6 years old, and standing in line outside the state theatre in Falls Church, Virginia, to see the original "Star Wars." You know, and it just changed all of our lives. It's sort of like the "Wizard of Oz" of my generation, of our generation. 
 
And, you know, they play the "Star Wars" movies all the time on TV. And I just wonder, Mark, do you ever just sit there and watch yourself, this young kid in his 20s playing Luke Skywalker and wonder, how the hell did that happen? 
 
HAMILL: Well, the answer is no. The last time I saw the originally trilogy was when they rereleased them in the theatres in the special editions, and I was just going to, I said to Lucas Film, just send me copies and I'll watch them at home. My kids were all, dad, are you crazy? I said you've seen these things a million times but they've never seen them in the movie theatre with -- 
 
ACOSTA: Wow. 
 
HAMILL: You know, the surround sound. And the community of the -- that's formed with the audience. And seeing it with an audience is hugely important. But what's my problem, Jim, is that I meet these kids that are talking about things, I'm sort of -- I feel like a fraud because they know more about these movies than I do. They really do because they see them over and over again. 
 
ACOSTA: It's so true. 
 
HAMILL: They read the novels. They know all the minutia of it all. It's staggering to me. And it's funny that you should mention "Wizard of Oz" because when I first read the script, I said it really has that feeling about it. 
 
ACOSTA: It does. 
 
HAMILL: Because with, you know, the gender switch of Dorothy, but here you have this young farm boy that's swept off in these mind-boggling adventures, and it was so much fun to make. I mean, we laughed so hard. I couldn't believe I was getting paid to do this. I had a floating car and I had droid sidekicks. I mean, it was a thrill. And I'm just glad that -- I never imagined it would last as long as it has, but I thought it's got to be a hit because it's got real heart and they are, they're very optimistic films. 
 
ACOSTA: They really are. 
 
HAMILL: They're telling that you can accomplish anything if you selflessly work for what's good for everyone around you and not selfishly for yourself, and that's a message that resonates throughout the ages. 
 
ACOSTA: I think you're so right, you know, and in this day and age, we do need a new hope. We do need the force more than ever before. Not the dark side, but the side that Luke Skywalker always, you know, saved the day for. But I have to ask you one last thing, and that is, it has to be emotional, and I've seen you tweet about this on social media, looking back at these scenes and these old photographs of you and Harrison Ford and the late Carrie Fisher. 
 
We're seeing some of these images up on our screen right now. You and Carrie Fisher were just wonderful together in "The Last Jedi." By the way, I feel like that was the best of the last trilogy. And I'm not just saying that because you're here. But there was just such a heart and soul in that movie that came across on the screen. Any favorite on-set memories that you can share? Any memories that might take us back to I guess what was, feels like a galaxy far, far away. 
 
HAMILL: Well, I was very grateful I had even that brief moment with Carrie because not only was Luke saying good-bye to Leah knowing that he wouldn't return, I knew that that was our swan song as those characters. So I was saying good-bye to Carrie. 
 
Now, of course, I mean, as disappointed as I was that Luke never got to work with Harrison, you know, Luke and Han, he was my mentor and my older brother, and, you know, an important figure in Luke's life. But that aside, you know, no one could have foreseen that we would lose Carrie. And, you know, I think, we lost the heart of what we had felt before. But that's, you know, they move on and now there's more material out there, "Star Wars" material, than there's ever been before so it's a great time for "Star Wars" fans. 
 
ACOSTA: Well, Mark, thank you for your patience so much, and listening to me in my fan boy questions. 
 <br>[16:20:01]
 
I know you must get them all the time. I appreciate you taking the time with us. 
 
HAMILL: I don't mind. May the force be with you, Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: OK, I can die a happy man now. Thank you. Check, please. Do I have to finish the show? Or I guess we have -- I do want to finish the show, Mark, because I want you, one last time, if you could, remind us of the cause in Ukraine. It's just so very important. If you could that would be great. HAMILL: Yes. And thank you for that because that's -- I mean, I get
 
 sidetracked with political questions and "Star Wars" questions and it goes off message and the reason I'm here is so people will go to the Web site and give what they can. It's U24.gov.ua/dronation, D-R-O-N-A- T-I-O-N. It's crucial to keep supporting Ukraine and standing up against the Evil Empire. 
 
ACOSTA: Absolutely. And Mark, may the force be with you. We appreciate your time so much. I was tempted, I almost busted out my Yoda impersonation today. I'm not -- maybe we'll do it another time if you'll come back. 
 
HAMILL: Oh, I'd love to hear it. I'd love to hear it. I noticed your tweet yesterday was in Yoda speak. So I love the fact -- 
 
ACOSTA: That's true. I just wanted to say -- 
 
HAMILL: I love the fact that we have -- 
 
ACOSTA: Well, I was going to say to Vladimir Putin, that is why you fear. Because Mark Hamill is with us today. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
HAMILL: Very good. I'm very impressed. 
 
ACOSTA: I'm just -- my apologies to (INAUDIBLE) and to all of our viewers for me doing that there. 
 
Mark Hamill, thanks so much for your time. I'm probably going to get a call after this segment. 
 
HAMILL: Thank you, Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: But thanks for your time. All right, appreciate it. Great to see you, Mark. 
 
HAMILL: Thank you. 
 
ACOSTA: Coming up, all right, in more serious news here. Behind the scenes video from January 6th. We'll talk about all that coming up in just a few moments. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:26:08]
 
ACOSTA: We have new exclusive video showing as never before what congressional leaders were doing behind the scenes at Fort McNair, the Washington, D.C. military base where they were sheltering -- a lot of us didn't realize this -- on January 6th. It comes courtesy of filmmaker Alexandra Pelosi who is documenting her mom, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, that day. In it, you see Speaker Pelosi talking on the phone to Vice President Pence as well as to other congressional leaders about how to finish certifying the election in the event they couldn't return to the Capitol that night. Let's watch. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA): Very well. Very well. We're terrified. No partisanship. OK. Yes. Because I think it's important for it to happen today. A while ago, Chuck and I called upon the president to ask if people can leave the Capitol. That hasn't happened yet. I hope that it will. 
 
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): We must finish. So we have to -- you have to help us make that decision. 
 
RYAN MCCARTHY, FORMER SECRETARY OF THE ARMY: Senator, I just need a little bit of time. We just put the plan together. 
 
SCHUMER: Can you call us in a half hour? 
 
MCCARTHY: I will call you back in a half hour with a much better estimates. 
 
SCHUMER: Right. Thank you. 
 
PELOSI: Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And Mr. Secretary, I just spoke to Vice President Pence and he was going to see -- because Mitch wants to do it in the Capitol. But we're being told it could take days to clean it up to make sure there are no hidden, you know, bombs or anything. But he was going to get back to me shortly as well. So just so you know. 
 
SCHUMER: Who are you telling? 
 
PELOSI: I'm missing the part as well. 
 
SCHUMER: Who is that? 
 
PELOSI: Same guy. 
 
SCHUMER: What? 
 
PELOSI: Same person. 
 
MCCARTHY: Yes, Madame Speaker. That's why I just need a little bit of time to make a better estimate. 
 
PELOSI: Yes, thank you. 
 
SCHUMER: OK. 
 
PELOSI: Thank you, Mr. Secretary. 
 
MCCARTHY: OK. Thank you. 
 
PELOSI: Thank you. Bye-bye. I think Pence will have an honest estimate. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. PELOSI: Now, how long will it take to set up here? 
 
SCHUMER: Mike Luzinski (PH). 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're trying to gather all the members up. We'll do the same. Load the buses and come down to this building. At that point we'll see if we want to continue democracy here on base and get it over with. 
 
SCHUMER: We're not going to bring them here unless we're going to do it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: And joining me now is one of the officers who defended the Capitol on January 6th, CNN law enforcement analyst and former D.C. Metropolitan police officer Michael Fanone. He's also the author of the important new book, "Hold the Line: The Insurrection and One Cop's Battle for America's Soul." 
 
Michael, great to see you. You know, watching that video, it's like watching a movie. And it is depressing and almost comical at the same time. It's mind boggling that this even happened. What's your reaction? What was your reaction when you saw that? 
 
MICHAEL FANONE, DEFENDED CAPITOL ON JANUARY 6TH: I mean, I remember the moment that I was watching it when I was in the committee's hearing room, and I mean, I was inspired. It brought me back to January 6th. And when I saw Commander Ramie Kyle in the tunnel with about 40 or 50 MPD officers and several Capitol police officers defending that, you know, entrance way into the Capitol, and how inspired I was by his leadership, his, you know, cool, calm, and collected demeanor, and watching Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer and Mitch McConnell. 
 
I mean, it was clear to me that on January 6th, Donald Trump was not the commander-in-chief. Nancy Pelosi was the commander-in-chief. 
 
ACOSTA: But the way they had to scramble and try to get something done up on the Capitol, while you guys were in the middle of this battle up there, what does it say about what Trump wasn't doing that day? To some extent, what he was doing that day? 
 
FANONE: Well, I mean, I think that, you know, we need to take a different perspective as to, you know, Trump's actions or as some would say, you know, lack of action during that 187 minutes. 
 <br>[16:30:10]
 
Donald Trump declared war on America on January 6, and not figuratively, he literally did. He assembled an army of his supporters, and he sent them to attack the Capitol. So, the fact that he wasn't going to call them off. I mean, to me, that's, you know, perfectly logical, because he wanted them to do exactly what it was that they were doing. So, this expectation that he is the President of the United States was somehow intervene in something that he set in motion with his lies and his rhetoric. I mean, maybe we need to rethink the way that we're looking at January 6.
 
ACOSTA: And in other parts of the video, you see Pelosi and other congressional leaders, I mean, we were just talking about this begging to get law enforcement, the National Guard up to the Capitol. But let's play what some Republican lawmakers had been saying prior to the release of this video.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. JIM BANKS (R) INDIANA: Was Speaker Pelosi involved in the decision to delay National Guard assistance on January 6?
 
REP. STEVE SCALISE, (R) MINORITY WHIP: Jim Banks just raised some very serious questions that should be answered by the January 6 Commission, but they're not. And they're not for a very specific reason. And that's because Nancy Pelosi doesn't want those questions to be answered.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: So, there you saw the House Minority Whip, Steve Scalise, Pelosi delayed -- saying Pelosi delayed the National Guard response, which is obviously not true. You can see in this video, he is there, as he was trying to mobilize the National Guard, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, also in the room that day. This is someone you talk about in your book, but does that take you off to -- they're in the room, and then later, they're lying about what happened?
 
FANONE: I mean, the cynical part of me would tell you that in my weeks and months spent walking around on Capitol Hill, I mean, that's what I've come to expect from lawmakers in general, but specifically from Republican lawmakers when it comes to talking about January 6. I mean, what's more disheartening is to know that some of those individuals that were up there peddling those lies were actually in the room, while Nancy Pelosi, Chuck Schumer and Mitch McConnell, were trying to bring help to the Capitol. And now they're lying about things that they knew for political purposes.
 
ACOSTA: And in your new book, you talked about who you were before the insurrection and who you've become since, what do you want people to know?
 
FANONE: I want people to know why I wrote the book. And the reason that I wrote it was an obviously I wanted to talk about my experiences on January 6, because there's been so much misinformation and lies about what so many police officers experienced at the Capitol on January 6. I also wanted people to understand what the experience was like after that. What it means to stand up and tell the truth. You know, no politics whatsoever, just the truth about what happened to me and so many other officers on January 6, in the world of Trumpism.
 
Anything that puts you in an adversarial position against Donald Trump, he's going to come after you and so are his supporters. So, I want them to know what that experience was like. But I also, I want, I wrote the first part of the book for law enforcement, I want people to understand my 20-year career as a police officer, through the eyes of a street cop, and hopefully, help further more productive conversations about policing and police reform.
 
ACOSTA: And, Michael, I think you also wrote the book. And I mean, it also to some extent, to a large extent, you did what you did on January 6. And everything that you've done afterwards, speaking out, because you care about this country. And maybe that sounds a little corny.
 
FANONE: No, no. I mean -- 
 
ACOSTA: But that's important. It's important.
 
FANONE: I agree. I mean, I think that ultimately, you know, my message here is that regardless of what the issue is, it's a difference that is going to destroy this country. You know, we have people that continue to support the former President Donald Trump, but they're not the vast majority of Americans. The vast majority of Americans are indifferent. They're indifferent to the pain and suffering that Donald Trump caused so many other Americans. They're indifferent to the experience of law enforcement officers on January 6. They're indifferent to anyone that doesn't hold or harbor the same political ideology or personal beliefs that they do.
 <br>[16:35:14]
 
ACOSTA: Well, Michael, it means a lot that you came on to talk about the book. It means a lot to me that you continue to go on this journey. I feel like I'm talking to somebody who is in a little bit better place than a few months back.
 
FANONE: I mean, it fluctuates.
 
ACOSTA: Yeah.
 
FANONE: But I mean, I think that I've definitely resolved the trauma of January 6. And right now, I'm just focused on accountability, and acknowledgement for all the officers that defended the Capitol.
 
ACOSTA: All right, Michael. At times you crack a smile, which I think is always good. Good to see, Michael. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
 
FANONE: Thanks, Jim.
 
ACOSTA: Good luck with the book.
 
FANONE: I appreciate that.
 
ACOSTA: Please read the book. Again, Michael is the author of the book, "Hold the Line: The Insurrection and One Cop's Battle for America's Soul." Be sure to check it out. Coming up, President Biden's delicate midterm Balancing Act wise campaigns today in a Democratic stronghold instead of having to some key swing states. We'll talk about that.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:40:44]
 
ACOSTA: President Biden is on a Western campaign swing ahead of the midterms. But in a twist don't expect to see him in Arizona or Nevada, despite more key Senate and House races that could tip the balance of power in Congress. CNN's Arlette Saenz is traveling with President and the traditionally Democratic State of Oregon. Oregon is usually locked up by now, Arlette, what's the President doing there?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Jim, President Biden is wrapping up his four-day Western string -- swing that really took him to the states that were democratic strongholds. He traveled to places like here in Oregon, which he won by 16 points back in 2020. Believing that these are areas where he and his policies will help the Democratic candidates. 
 
The president campaigning in part here in Portland, on behalf of the Democratic candidate for Governor Tina Kotek, who is facing a much tighter than expected race as she is facing not just a Republican, Christine Drazan, but also an independent, who was a former Democrat in Betsy Johnson.
 
But the President, while he has been on this four-day swing, especially over the course of the past two days has really been honing in on ways to improve the prices for Americans as the issue of inflation remains of a top concern.
 
One thing he's been talking about is enhanced social security benefits and also trying to explain some of the elements of the Inflation Reduction Act, especially when it comes to reducing drug prices.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT: This year, the American people won. And for the first time, Big Pharma lost. Now, the big pharma tries to raise drug prices faster than inflation, they're going to have to write a check their Medicare to cover the difference. They're going to not be able to do it. They're going to cover the difference. And look, instead of that money going into the pockets of drug companies or going in your pockets in the form of lower drug prices. Now, there's more money at the end of the month to pay those grocery bills, get your car repaired by your grandson a birthday gift.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAENZ: So, Biden there really trying to stress to Americans what the Inflation Reduction Act would do, something that he said that they've struggled to do at times in selling their legislative accomplishments. He believes those are some areas that could help Democrats heading into those midterm elections three weeks away. ACOSTA: All right, Arlette Saenz, we'll be watching. Thanks so much.
 
Coming up, the growing mystery in Oklahoma after the bodies of four men are pulled from a river. Police now are trying to determine if it's connected to the case of four friends who disappeared on a bike ride. We'll get a live report next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:47:24]
 
ACOSTA: In Oklahoma, the bodies of four men had been pulled from a river in the same city where police had been searching for four friends who disappeared during a bike ride. CNN's Camila Bernal is following this story for us. Camila, very disturbing case. What more are you learning?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Jim. So, these bodies were found in Okmulgee, Oklahoma, that's about 40 miles south of Tulsa, Oklahoma. And now we are waiting for the medical examiner in Tulsa to identify these bodies, which we now know is going to be a difficult process. According to authorities, those autopsies began around 8:30 this morning. 
 
And this is after these bodies were found in a river. According to authorities, this was a tip from someone who found something suspicious on the river, he called the cops. And they were able to not only find the bodies, but also recover these bodies. Here is how the chief of police described all of this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF JOE PRENTICE, OKMULGEE, OK POLICE DEPARTMENT: All four bodies were submerged in water for what appears to be an extended period of time. And therefore, identification will be a little bit of a challenge. I don't know that the four bodies that we've recovered are those men. I do suspect foul play and the discovery of the four bodies. What led to them being.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL: Now, until we get confirmation from the medical examiner police is seeing this as two separate cases. The case of the bodies and then the case of the four men that went missing. These were four friends all between the ages of 29 and 32. They were hanging out together on Sunday night. They all have their bikes, and at least two of them had their cell phones on them. So, police, they were able to track the cell phone data and kind of follow that information that led them to two different junkyards and they searched the area, they were not able to find anything. 
 
And according to authorities, the river was not in the path of this search area of the cellphone data. The closest one was about five miles away from the river. So really, they were not even planning on going that way. And whether they treated as one case, two cases or whether they connect the dots. There's still a lot of questions here as to what happened to these four men. Jim.
 
ACOSTA: Absolutely. Still lot of questions. All right, Camila Bernal, thank you so much. I will take a quick break and we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:54:28]
 
ACOSTA: On a brand-new episode of "Stanley Tucci: Searching for Italy" join Stanley as he explores the rugged terrain and unique delicacies of Sardinia, the wild west of Italy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
STANLEY TUCCI: Luigi Minnis (ph) and his family have been keeping beehives since 1631. And Luigi wants to show me the ropes.
 
(FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 <br>[16:55:01]
 
TUCCI: I'm not going to do this. We have a long shoot ahead by, you know, multiple stings, I'll be dead.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): Let's open the cover of the hive.
 
TUCCI: All spraying the bees in these hives work industriously to collect pollen from the diverse wildflowers that flourish here. The result is 1000 flower honey.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): Now we get rid of the bees. Simply like this. Look.
 
TUCCI: Oh my gosh, beautiful.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): Feel how heavy this is.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Absolutely beautiful.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: All right glad Stanley kept his distance there, don't miss an all-new episode of Stanley Tucci: Searching for Italy tomorrow night at 9:00 right here on CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)