Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: World Cup Kicks Off As The USA Takes On Wales; Russian Authorities Warn That The Zaporizhzhia Power Plant Is At Risk Of A Nuclear Accident; CNN Uncovers Brutality Against Protesters In Iran; Colorado Springs Police Investigate Mass Shooting; Police Comb Through Hundreds Of Tips In Hunt For Suspect; England Defeat Iran 6-2 In Group B Opener. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired November 21, 2022 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
ISA SOARES, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT:  A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, the World Cup kicks off, the USA takes 
 
 on Wales as we come on the air tonight, but what is it really like for football fans in Qatar? Then Russian authorities warn that the Zaporizhzhia 
 
 power plant is at risk of a nuclear accident. 
 
What the IAEA is saying this very hour. And then later, Iran's protests, CNN brings you an alleged account of torture perpetrated against protesters 
 
 in prison. That special CNN report just minutes from now. But first, we begin in Doha with the first full day of action at the World Cup. And as we 
 
 speak, the third and final game of the day kicks off with the United States versus Wales. 
 
There's already been some dramatic action on the pitch, but there's also been as much action off the pitch. Earlier, this moving movement -- moment 
 
 you can see there from Iran's players. And as you saw there, no lips moving because the team refusing really to sing their national anthem, appearing 
 
 to show solidarity with the ongoing protests back home. 
 
Elsewhere, controversy over FIFA's crackdown on one love armbands. Seven European captains ultimately deciding not to wear the band after FIFA made 
 
 it clear, players would be penalized. The armbands were designed to promote diversity and inclusion at the tournament. Let's get more now from our Don 
 
 Riddell who is there in Doha, and CNN's sports Andy Scholes is in Atlanta. 
 
Gentlemen, great to see you both. Don, let me start with you. You are in Doha. Give us a sense of what the mood is like as this game kicks off. I 
 
 think it's already kicked off 2 minutes ago, USA versus Wales, and what a match it will be. Sixty-four-year hiatus I believe for Wales.   
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  Yes, I mean, you know, the atmosphere in Doha in Qatar is really building. It's starting to feel incredibly festive. 
 
 You're seeing fans from all over the world kind of mingling in the suite behind me, and It's a -- it's a fun experience. Yes, a huge game for the 
 
 United States and Wales. The American team hasn't played in the World Cup for eight years.   
 
They heartbreakingly missed out four years ago, and remember that in four years time, they are going to be hosting the World Cup, co-hosting with 
 
 Canada and Mexico. But an even longer wait for Wales, 1958 was the last time they were in the World Cup tournament. So, for similar reasons, both 
 
 those teams really wanting to make the most of it.   
 
They will already be looking at how this group is shaping up. England thrashing Iran 6-2 earlier on, so I suspect England and Wales might now be 
 
 thinking -- sorry, the U.S. and Wales might now be thinking that one of them is playing for a second place in this group.   
 
SOARES:  And you know, I remember very clearly, i think it was a week ago or so, probably longer, you can correct me here, Don, when FIFA asked for 
 
 politics not to be involved in football. Well, that doesn't seem to be happening right now. We saw a pretty powerful moment with the Iran national 
 
 team. A silent protest, tell us about that.   
 
RIDDELL:  Yes,  I mean, of course, the build-up to this tournament has been covered in so many ways by the civil rights and human rights issues here in 
 
 Qatar. But of course, this tournament has been played on the doorstep of Iran. You were looking at pretty what was an extraordinary moment when the 
 
 national team refused to sing their anthem before the game.  
 
Something like this was certainly possible. There was a lot of speculation before the game that something like this might happen. A number of other 
 
 Iranian national sports teams have also refused to sing the anthem in recent days and weeks. But this, of course, being the football team at the 
 
 World Cup. The biggest possible platform for them to do something like this, really was an absolutely massive moment.   
 
And we've been speaking to the fans outside the stadium before, many of them were wearing protest T-shirts of their own, some of them didn't want 
 
 to be speaking with us or be seen to be speaking with us, because they believe that pro-regime spotters were in the crowd, and so they didn't want 
 
 to be -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 <br>[14:05:00]
 
RIDDELL:  Seen speaking to the media. But we did speak to one couple, and they said that they were just hoping that the players could send them a 
 
 symbol, a sign, a signal that they were at the very least sympathetic to the demonstrators, many of whom have paid for this protests with their 
 
 lives. And they said, it will begin with the national anthem. 
 
If they don't sing it, then we know that they are on our side. And during that moment where the anthem was not being sung, notably, the Iranian 
 
 supporters nearest me seemed absolutely jubilant. They were on their feet, they were cheering, and it seemed as though to me, they were very grateful 
 
 for the stance that their players had taken. 
 
But it wasn't just Iran and the national anthem. You referenced the "one love" armbands which have proved to be so controversial. FIFA basically 
 
 shutting that down at the 11th hour. Harry Kane; the England captain would have been the first of a number of European captains to wear the armband. 
 
 But in the end, it was made clear to the England team that he could have been booked for that.   
 
And while the Football Association of England said they would have been prepared to pay a fine for this, they couldn't put their players in a 
 
 position where they would be booked or even dismissed from the field of play. However, the England team did take a knee before kickoff, and of 
 
 course, this is something that they began to do in the wake of the George Floyd murder a couple of years ago and the rise of the Black Lives movement 
 
 globally.   
 
They did that here at the start of the game, and they said beforehand that it would be a gesture of inclusivity. So it's gone way beyond just the BLM 
 
 movement, and for them to speak about inclusivity here in Qatar, a country where as I say, civil and human rights are so often denied. You cannot 
 
 underestimate the significance of that moment as well.   
 
SOARES:  Yes, really, a tournament where the controversies just continues to surround it. And then let me go to you, what were the highlights in your 
 
 mind -- I know you've got your eyes fixed on team USA, we'll get to that in just -- 
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT:  Yes -- 
 
SOARES:  A moment. But what stood out to you?   
 
SCHOLES:  Well, I mean, Isa, what's in-store for England? And you know, one of the favorites to win it all, and they certainly looked like it in their 
 
 opening match against Iran. Iran though did stand firm for the first 35 minutes of this match, but then the floodgates just opened up. England 
 
 scoring three goals before halftime, courtesy of Jude Bellingham, Bukayo Saka and Raheem Sterling. 
 
And then they just kept pouring it on. In total, five different players scored in a 6-2 romp. It's the second largest World Cup win in England's 
 
 history. It was also a night of redemption especially for Saka and Marcus Rashford who both got on the score sheet after dealing with a kind of 
 
 criticism last year, for each missing penalties in the Euro final defeat against Italy.   
 
Manchester City's Jack Grealish, he rounded out the scoring, just his second-ever goal for the Three Lions. Up next, Southgate's men going to 
 
 face the United States on Friday. And as we mentioned, USA right now on the field against Wales in their opening match. 
 
Still, no score, very early on in that one. Earlier, the Netherlands got their campaign off to a winning start, 2-0 win over Senegal, the African 
 
 champions missing their biggest star Sadio Mane. He's been ruled out of the tournament with an injury. 
 
But today, we have three games, on Sunday, we had one, Isa, tomorrow is when we're going to start getting four games a day, and we'll get that 
 
 throughout the rest of the week.   
 
SOARES:  That England match game was quite something, I remember Rashford - - I think he had three passes before when he came in, and that was a goal. What a match to start off. But let me ask you about team USA. And I bet 
 
 you're biting your nails at this one, well, thinking let's wrap this up, Isa, so I can go and watch it. There's a lot of expectation here. Can they 
 
 bring it home? Can they rise to the occasion here?   
 
SCHOLES:  Well, as Don mentioned, we've been waiting -- we've been waiting eight years for this. You know, we didn't make it to the World Cup the last 
 
 time around, and we really don't really know what to expect from this team. It's the second youngest team in the entire field. A lot of inexperienced 
 
 taking the pitch today. 
 
And you know, the U.S. hasn't scored an international goal since June. So there's a lot of nervous feeling, especially because, you know, as soon as 
 
 the draw was announced and we knew that big England game was going to be on Black Friday, everyone was going to be watching. The pressure has now 
 
 mounted after watching what England did in their opener, winning 6 to 2.   
 
You know, the U.S. desperately needs a good result here against Wales to try to alleviate some of that pressure. But I was going to ask you, can you 
 
 win a big World Cup match when this is your warm-up shirt? I'm not sure who approve these. 
 
SOARES:  That is low. 
 
SCHOLES:  It looked like these shirts were on the ground when two paints cans were having a fight or something. But anyways, here, is hoping for a 
 
 nice result from the U.S. today because we really want that game against England on Friday to be a superstar matchup that it was billed to be.   
 
SOARES:  They will definitely stand out, let's just say that.  
 
SCHOLES:  I hope so -- 
 
SOARES:  Andy and Don, thank you very much, gentlemen, appreciate it. Want to leave the Qatar World Cup now and turn our attention to Ukraine.   
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
Because Russia is warning a threat that it says would forever change the course of history. Its state-run energy agency, there is a renewed risk of 
 
 a nuclear accident at the Zaporizhzhia power plant after fierce shelling rocked the area over the weekend. Russia and Ukraine are blaming each other 
 
 for the strikes. U.N. inspectors visited the Russian-controlled plant today.   
 
IAEA Chief Raphael Grossi warns the attacks came dangerously close to key nuclear systems. He says whoever is responsible was, quote, "playing with 
 
 fire", insisting the madness -- his words, must stop. CNN's Matthew Chance was following developments for us in Kyiv. So Matthew, both sides clearly 
 
 blaming each other. Talk us through what we know at this hour, about the safety of the nuclear power plant in Zaporizhzhia.   
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, frankly, it's astonishing, really, given the intensity of the fighting in that area, 
 
 that more damage to the critical infrastructure of that nuclear power plant, the biggest in Europe by the way, has not -- has not been incurred. 
 
 I mean, at the moment, there has been no leak of radiation.   
 
And actually, the functioning of the plant, in terms of its security has not been affected. But that's more by luck than design. And in fact, the 
 
 IAEA officials talking about this today, were saying that the fighting and the shelling and the explosions are so close to the power plant that we're 
 
 talking about meters, not kilometers or miles, meters away from a potential nuclear accident.   
 
So that's how stark the warnings are from the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog. I mean, for their part, the Russians and the Ukrainians are both blaming each 
 
 other, as you said. And as I say, this is right in the middle of the frontline in this increasingly brutal battle between these two countries. 
 
 And there is very little sign at the moment that either side, despite the risks are preparing to step back and to move the fighting, somehow, away 
 
 from that area which is currently by the way, under Russian occupation.  
 
And so, it's a very bleak, very dangerous situation the region is confronting. When you have these artillery shells and these explosions 
 
 taking place so close to, you know, this critical nuclear infrastructure.   
 
SOARES:  Matthew Chance for us in Kyiv this hour, thanks very much, Matthew, appreciate it. And still to come tonight, Iran's crackdown on 
 
 protests as we have an exclusive report on the regime's terrifying pattern of brutality, as well as sexual violence on both women and men. And later 
 
 in the show, a country ravaged by extreme weather is desperately looking for survivors of a powerful earthquake. Both those stories after a short 
 
 break. You are watching CNN.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
SOARES:  Now, the U.N. says as many as 14,000 people have been arrested in Iran since protests broke out two months ago. Now, two famous Iranian 
 
 actresses have also been detained, one of them posted this video to social media. Hengameh Ghaziani, as you can see here, was in public without her 
 
 hijab in violation of Iran's dress code.   
 
This just as the government crackdown on Kurdish protesters seems to be escalating. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
(GUNFIRE) 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  The Hengaw organization for Human Rights says this video shows Iranian forces firing in the Kurdish city of Javanrood. While brave women 
 
 and men are exposing a really terrifying pattern carried out by Tehran, where sexual violence and rape are being used to suppress, as well as 
 
 demoralize protesters. Many have been kidnapped, disappearing into a network of prisons and secret jails. 
 
CNN's chief international investigative correspondent Nima Elbagir has an exclusive report which, we must warn you contains some very disturbing 
 
 details.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice- over):  Over these mountains is Iran. A regime that has succeeded in cutting many of its people off from the outside world. But disturbing 
 
 stories detailing the authorities' brutal retribution, systematic sexual violence against anti-regime protesters have begun leaking out.   
 
We've come here to the Kurdish region of Iran to try and find out more. This is Hannah(ph), not her real name, a Kurdish Iranian woman recently 
 
 smuggled out of Iran, she fears for her life. After taking off and burning her headscarf on the streets, she was arrested and detained by Iranian 
 
 Intelligence officers.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  They choose the women who were pretty and suited their appetite. Then the officer would take one of them 
 
 from the cell to a smaller, private room. They would sexually assault them there.   
 
ELBAGIR:  Hannah isn't only an eyewitness, she also was violated.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I feel shy talking about this. You can still see what the policeman did. Look here, on my neck. It's purple-ish. That is why I'm 
 
 covering it. He forced himself on me.   
 
ELBAGIR:  Then a fight broke out with another protester, drawing away Hannah's(ph) attacker. Hannah(ph) and others could hear screams, and they 
 
 believe a woman was raped in an interrogation room. Hannah(ph) sketched out the police station as she remembers it. She estimates 70 to 80 men and 
 
 women were together in a main hall, that accessed full private interrogation rooms.  
 
It was in these interrogation rooms, she says, that she was assaulted and others were raped. CNN was able to locate the police station through 
 
 Hannah's(ph) description, eyewitness corroboration and geo-location, using key landmarks. It's in the Islamabad neighborhood of Oromia(ph). Based on 
 
 this testimony and speaking to a number of sources, a pattern of repression comes into focus.   
 
Police centers used as filtration points, moving protesters from one location to another. Often families left not knowing where their loved ones 
 
 are held. One Iraq-based Kurdish militant opposition party PAC(ph), identified over 240 people who they believe are missing within this maze of 
 
 detention centers. Human rights organizations believe the number is higher, in the thousands.   
 
Some of the victims as young as 14, many are men supporting female protesters. Their punishment as severe as the women's.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  They brought four men over who had been beaten, screaming intensely in another cell. And one of the men who 
 
 was tortured was sent to the waiting room where I was. I asked him what all that screaming was about, he said they are raping the men.   
 
ELBAGIR:  Based on witness testimony, CNN traced the locations to an Iranian Army Intelligence headquarters, voiced here by a translator, a 17-
 
 year-old boy sent CNN a voice note following his imprisonment. We are withholding his name and location for his safety.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  When a security guard heard me discussing the rape of the other inmates, he started torturing me all over 
 
 again. They tortured, raped me from behind.   
 
ELBAGIR:  Even as authorities visited sexual violence on protesters, regime figures accused female protesters of prostitution, of, quote, "wanting to 
 
 be naked".   
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
Of the incidents of sexual violence against protesters inside Iranian detention facilities, most occurred in the Kurdish majority areas to the 
 
 west of Iran, home to a historically oppressed minority. Disturbingly, in some cases, the rapes were filmed and used to blackmail protesters into 
 
 silence. There has been a real escalation where female protesters are, as you can see here, being openly assaulted, often, sexually.  
 
But the violence against women, like the protests, are not confined to the Kurdish areas. They are often focused on locations where the protests are 
 
 most intense like here in the capital, Tehran.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
ELBAGIR:  One of these stories is Amita Abasis(ph), a typical 20-year-old on social media, sharing her love of animals.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
ELBAGIR:  In social media posts appearing under her name, Abassi(ph) like many young women in Iran, criticized the regime openly after the protests 
 
 began. Unlike most, she did it without anonymity. It didn't take long for security forces to find and arrest her. Abassi(ph) disappeared. Soon after, 
 
 whistleblowers began to post on various social media platforms.   
 
Medics sharing eyewitness accounts of what had been done to Abassi(ph). First of all, they say, there were a few plain clothes men with her and 
 
 they did not let her out of their site, even during a private medical examination, they were there. "She was my patient. I went to her bedside, 
 
 they had shaved her hair. She was scared and was trembling.   
 
When she first came in, they said it was rectal bleeding due to repeated rape. The plain clothes men insisted that the doctor write that the rape 
 
 was from prior to her arrest. And then after, this issue was becoming obvious to all, they changed the entire scenario altogether. The details of 
 
 these leaks were confirmed to CNN by an insider at Imam Ali Hospital, where AbassI(ph) was brought to be examined.
 
In a statement, the government said Abassi(ph) was treated for digestive problems. The medics who treated her said that was not true. The Iranian 
 
 regime denies the rape, accusing her of leading protests, an allegation which could see her face the death penalty. At this usually busy border-
 
 crossing between Iraq and Iran, it is deceptively quiet.  
 
Those who can cross tell us the noose is tightening on protesters. Authorities have for decades used sexual torture against Iranians, and it 
 
 appears once more, a familiar pattern. Sexual violence deployed to enforce an assertion of moral guardianship.   
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES:  Nima Elbagir joins me now to discuss what really we just saw, just pretty staggering. Just talk to us, first, about what the Iranian 
 
 government's saying if they're responding to what we've just seen here from your report.    
 
ELBAGIR:  Nothing. I mean, we included in the report their denial of the rape of Amita Abassi(ph); the young woman whose social media videos we 
 
 showed there. Who is a -- who the medics and the whistleblowers who were at the hospital where she was brought verified that she had been incredibly, 
 
 painfully and repeatedly raped.   
 
So, they have denied that, claiming that instead she appeared at the hospital because she was suffering from digestive issues, and that's what 
 
 caused the rectal bleeding. I mean, there is all of this, it's so horrifying for people to discuss, but it is very clear that there is a 
 
 pattern of reprisals. There's a pattern of vengeance being visited upon those who would seek to doubt the authorities claims to moral purity and 
 
 moral guardianship.   
 
SOARES:  And you hinted at the idea of sex as an instrument of oppression. As this always happened in Iran or from your sources, are you seeing it 
 
 more frequently? Are you seeing a pattern here?   
 
ELBAGIR:  Well, so there are two patterns here that the regime has replicated, whenever it finds itself in time -- in a time or a place of 
 
 national crisis. So the targeting of the minorities, and they've since we've seen them really target the Kurdish majority, western areas, where 
 
 that Kurdish historically oppressed minority is. But also the use of sexual torture is something that human rights groups have for decades been 
 
 detailing. And it's very clear that this is the repression rulebook that the authorities come back to.   
 
And what one of those young boys was telling us, the 17-year-old, he got a voice note out to us. He spoke about being videotaped, about men being 
 
 videotaped. And this is something we're hearing from human rights organizations. It is using not just the shame within a conservative culture 
 
 as a weapon. 
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
But under international humanitarian law, gendered violence is considered a form of torture. And that is really how so many of those legal minds in the 
 
 international community are viewing what is being perpetrated at the moment in Iran.   
 
SOARES:  And as we were playing that, you and I were talking about just how young these individuals are. I mean, one guest I heard earlier on CNN was 
 
 saying that the average age of the protesters between 16 to 22, I think or 26, I quite remember. What about those you spoke to? 
 
ELBAGIR:  So, the names that you saw that were provided to us by the Kurdish militant opposition group, PAC(ph) and by human rights 
 
 organizations, the youngest there was around 14. The teenage boy who sent us the voice note was 17, and when you see the social media footprint and 
 
 the videos of these people, you see how young they are.   
 
Amita Abassi(ph) who was -- who was assaulted in Tehran, her -- most of her social media output was her and her cats, and the multi-colored fringe. She 
 
 was 20 years old -- she is 20 years old. And the idea that not only is the torture for the families who know what could possibly being done to their 
 
 children inside those prisons and those detention centers. But also the tortures to the families that don't know where their children are.   
 
SOARES:  We have been keeping an eye on reporting on these protests as you well know, Nima. And something that Jomana said to me -- our correspondent 
 
 Jomana Karadsheh, said the more blood that they are seeing -- the protesters are seeing on the streets, the more defiant they become. Is this 
 
 something that you have heard when you report this? What are they telling you? What are the Iranian people -- you were in part of Kurdish-speaking. 
 
 What are they saying in terms of the momentum right now?   
 
ELBAGIR:  Well, the medics, the whistleblowers who confirmed to us the details of the assault on Amita Abassi(ph), they said, you know, we just 
 
 want the truth to get out there. The 17-year-old boy in his voice note, he said, I just want the truth out there. 
 
And it feels like as much as the regime is returning to wielding these old, familiar weapons of repression, for some people, they have been so used, so 
 
 terrified by this that they are now clearly choosing to say, enough is enough. Now, does that mean that we're going to see change in Iran? Nobody 
 
 can say that -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
ELBAGIR:  Categorically. But does it mean that there is a point by which you know that people -- there's only so much fear that can be wielded over 
 
 them -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
ELBAGIR:  Before they decide that they're going to break those chains of fear. And it's clear that the regime is scared of that, that the regime is 
 
 viewing what these young people are doing as an existential threat.
 
SOARES:  Nima Elbagir, excellent reporting -- 
 
ELBAGIR:  Thank you -- 
 
SOARES:  Really appreciate it, thank you. And still to come on this show tonight, the memorial is growing for victims of another mass shooting in 
 
 the United States. How the alleged gunman was brought down. That story, just ahead.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:30:47]
 
SOARES: Now to the deadly nightclub mass shooting in Colorado that left at least five dead, police say the alleged gunman faces murder as well as hate 
 
 charges. The Colorado Springs mayor is calling patrons of club Q heroes.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JOHN SUTHERS, COLORADO SPRINGS MAYORS: And we know that at least one patron was able to wrestle the gun away from him and use that gun to disable him, 
 
 not by shooting them, but, you know, by hitting him, and incredible heroic action that undoubtedly saved lives.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: Our CNN Correspondent Nick Watt joins me now from Colorado Springs. So Nick, what are we learning at this hour about the alleged shooter? Where 
 
 are we on the investigation here?
 
NICK WATT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Isa, first of all, I'm going to say that one of those patrons who subdued the gunman, he is in the hospital 
 
 right now, according to the police chief, and we are waiting for an update on his condition. Now the 22-year-old suspect is also in the hospital. And 
 
 we are told that he will be charged once he gets out with five counts of first degree murder, five counts of a bias-related crime. 
 
You know, investigators have been a little bit coy about saying they were treating this as a hate crime. But the community here was adamant from the 
 
 beginning that this was a hate crime against the LGBT community. This is a pretty small, pretty conservative town in Colorado. There is a small LGBT 
 
 community, this club one of the only places that they had to go to. They called it a safe haven. And it was until just a few minutes before 
 
 midnight, Saturday, when this gunman walked in and almost immediately began shooting. 
 
Now, five people dead, at least twenty-five injured. And I've been told by people who were in there, there were maybe thirty to fifty people in there. 
 
 It wasn't packed. So, a lot of the people in there physically injured, all of them, of course mentally and emotionally injured as well. 
 
Now I spoke within the past hour or so to a guy called Barrett Hudson, who was sitting at a table quite near the door when the gunman came in. Barrett 
 
 turned, saw the gunman, saw him standing there with another man in front of him, the man raised his arms a little, tried to walk backwards, the suspect 
 
 shot that man dead. Barrett himself was hit seven times. Seven times. Here's a little bit of what he had to tell me.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
Barrett Hudson, They started counting all the bullet holes. I called my dad. He's my best friend. We have a great relationship. And I called him.
 
 And that's because I want him -- I wanted to -- I wanted him to hear my voice and I wanted -- so I told him I was shot. I was bleeding out."
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WATT: Now, Barrett has sent me a video in the past hour or so of him walking. Not unaided, he's being helped. But he is back on his feet after 
 
 being hit seven times less than forty-eight hours ago. Five dead as I mentioned, among them, we now know, two bartenders, one of them, Daniel 
 
 Ashton. His parents told the Denver Post that Daniel moved here so that he could be near them, and now he's dead. 
 
And the community here, the LGBT community, is saying, you know, we can rebuild, we can reopen the club, but how can we really recover? And they're 
 
 asking, you know, why? Why do people do this? Worth noting as well that one count, Isa, has this as the 601st mass shooting in the United States this 
 
 year so far. Isa. 
 
SOARES: So far, I mean, it's really just - hearing what he had to say has truly shaken me, to be honest. Seven -- having seven shots, seven -- it's 
 
 quite something. But talk to me about a bit more about the community for those around the world who don't know much about Colorado Springs, how 
 
 shaken they must be by this.
 
WATT: They are completely shaken. As I mentioned, this is a small, fairly conservative town, home to many evangelical Christians, home to a number of 
 
 military bases, as I say, with a very small LGBT community. What was really interesting was last night, we went to a vigil for the victims. 
 <br>[14:35:02]
 
Now this vigil was supposed to be marking the Transgender Day of Remembrance. It was altered at the last minute to also include the victims 
 
 who were killed here. It was being held in a synagogue here in town, it was overflowing. And it was very interesting to see the cross section of the 
 
 community. In the line waiting to get in, in front of me was a fairly buttoned-up elderly Christian pastor, behind me, two men, holding hands, 
 
 giving each other comfort. Everybody in this community was represented. And that, you know, is perhaps one of the good things that we have seen here 
 
 since this tragic event on Saturday night. 
 
But, you know, many people who I've been speaking to who were in the club, I spoke to two people who were in there, it was their first time ever 
 
 visiting the club. They walked out three minutes before the gunman walked in. And they described to me, they said, it feels unreal. And you could see 
 
 in their faces that it hadn't really sunk in yet. They said, you know, you hear about these things happening other places. 
 
But it's happened here. And they just couldn't quite comprehend what they just missed. And what had happened to the people who stayed in that club 
 
 when the gunman walked in, and as we've heard, just immediately started firing with this assault style rifle. And you know, those two people who 
 
 subdued him, authorities here say that they saved a lot of lives. Isa. 
 
SOARES: Well, I thoughts are with everyone really in Colorado Springs. Nick Watt there. Thanks very much, Nick. 
 
Well, investigators are still combing through hundreds of tips a week after four University of Idaho students were killed on an off-campus home. So 
 
 far, authorities say they haven't found a weapon, or a suspect, or indeed a motive. They've conducted more than 90 interviews, now left with more 
 
 questions really than answers. So, many are upset by the lack of progress.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CAPT. ROGER LANIER, MOSCOW, IDAHO POLICE DEPARTMENT: It's been very hard for members of the community and it's been equally difficult for our 
 
 officers and for the investigators. We will continue to put all of our resources towards investigating and bringing this to a resolution.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: There will be a funeral service in a short while from -- now from one of the students who was killed (INAUDIBLE) in there. 
 
Now after recent landslides and flooding devastated parts of Indonesia, the country is now dealing with the aftermath of an earthquake that killed at 
 
 least 162 people and injured hundreds more. Rescuers are desperately looking for survivors. CNN Correspondent Selina Wang has a story for you.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Catastrophe struck Indonesia's West Java province, residents trapped under the rubble of what they once called home 
 
 as a powerful earthquake struck leaving dozens dead and hundreds injured. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): Usually, we can feel the building moving when someone walks in the building. But just now, it was so strong 
 
 as if someone had pushed me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NURUL HIDAYA, OFFICER WORKER: Schools, a mosque even a hospital now destroyed as officials warn the death toll may go up. 
 
While this isn't new to a country situated on an arc of volcanoes and fault lines in the Pacific known as the Ring of Fire, its grim history of deadly 
 
 earthquakes doesn't make this latest one any less painful. Each deadly earthquake and tsunami only add to fears over the next.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
AHMAD RIDWAN, OFFICE WORKER (through translator): We're used to this in Jakarta, but people were so nervous just now so we also panicked. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WANG: Government authorities doing all they can to provide some sort of respite for those who have lost everything, building tents and shelters, 
 
 attending to their basic needs.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HERMAN SUHERMAN, CIANJUR ADMINISTRATION HEAD (through translator): A lot of houses were destroyed in the villages, and we need heavy equipment for 
 
 that. And a lot of roads are cut off. We're still gathering data for that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WANG: Fears of aftershocks continue to linger as residents brace themselves for yet another series of tremors. Selina Wang, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: We'll stay on top of that story for you, of course. And still to come tonight, more turmoil at Twitter. Fired workers at the company's 
 
 Africa office accused Elon Musk of silencing intimidation and breaking labor laws. We'll have that. Plus, I'll be speaking to one England fan in 
 
 Doha about his experience of the tournament so far. That's after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:42:16]
 
SOARES: Well, right now, Wales and the United States are battling out in Doha. Heard in the last few minutes that the US is up 1-0 against Wales. 
 
 They're both hoping though to win the first match of the 2022 World Cup. And after the USA 1-0 after just a few minutes ago, just as I was saying. 
 
 Earlier in the day, England beat Iran 6-2 and that meant some very happy fans.
 
Well, it's coming home apparently. Fans including Ellis Patten, who traveled to Qatar from England, for his very first, I believe, World Cup 
 
 joins me now live from Doha. Ellis, great to see you. Tell us what it was like today as you're watching that match. 
 
ELLIS PATTEN, ENGLAND FAN: Yes, thanks for having me on. It was interesting. I think, like, obviously, the game was amazing, like England 
 
 winning 6-2, I would have taken 1-0 anything because the World Cup's so unpredictable. So, it was really good. Obviously, loads of England fans out 
 
 here. There was more than I thought there'd be. I spoke to a few people and they were saying there was actually more there today than was for, like, 
 
 our first game in Russia in 2018. So it's, yes, it's a very interesting one. 
 
The mood was very positive from England fans. The problem with football is like when the game was 3-0, like, it was kind of done. So, it kind of kills 
 
 the atmosphere a bit. Other than that, yes, it was a really good day from a fan's perspective.
 
SOARES: And I heard -- I mean, CNN reporting in the day that there were problems with the fans getting into the stadium, not just England fans, but 
 
 fans in general because of -- the app wasn't working. So people -- the match has started and actually people were able to get in. And then there's 
 
 obviously the controversy about kind of the U-turn on the drinking. How has that impacted the mood?
 
PATTEN: Yes, so, yes, my app managed to -- it was glitching at first, but worked, but, yes, that was -- I didn't speak to anyone who was delayed 
 
 getting in because there was so many different clusters of fans, but we did hear in the stadium that that had happened. 
 
The beer thing is interesting because I think it's the first time I've ever been to a football match where no one was visibly drunk like at any level, 
 
 like, it was just -- everyone was sober. And for me, like, I don't drink beer at football anyway, so it didn't really -- doesn't affect my 
 
 experience. 
 
I think fans are more disappointed that it was done so late, but that -- there's always for fans to find drink with all -- I think a lot -- I think 
 
 the fans have found a pub called The Red Lion Pub and a lot of them would go in there to meet and drink because like the beer is, like, 7.50 or 
 
 something, which is like going out in London. So, they'll all just drink in there. 
 
But, yes, the game, no beer at the game. There was beer, it's just non- alcoholic, which people were still drinking which I don't get. Who enjoys the taste of beer that much without alcohol? 
 <br>[14:45:04]
 
SOARES: At 7.50, I wouldn't be drinking it either, I'll tell you that, Ellis. But, look, let's talk about the politics of it. I know FIFA doesn't 
 
 want us to, you know, ask for people not to put politics separate from football, but it's clear, as you've been seeing, is very much front and 
 
 center, be it LGBT discrimination, migrant workers, we saw Iran being silent today, didn't sing the national hymn. I mean do you think -- how has 
 
 that impacted, you think, the mood of this World Cup? I know we're only, you know, day two or so. 
 
PATTEN: Yes, see, it's one of them ones where it's definitely -- there's something lingering in the air the whole thing even with the, like I said - 
 
 like you said, with the Iran fans, they had a banner up, the fans did protesting for I believe its women's rights. I believe the debate is right 
 
 there right now. So, it's really powerful to see their fans protest in that way. 
 
It's one of them ones where I think the consensus with fans is, and I definitely subscribe to this as well, like, it's -- we didn't pay -- we 
 
 were the -- we weren't the ones who are the reason this World Cup is here. Football is so massive for so many people. It's the biggest thing in so 
 
 many people's lives that when a World Cup's on, you can't ignore it. 
 
But also -- and I think it's, in a way, has started some really more healthy conversations about this can - this won't happen again basically. I 
 
 would -- I don't know. But it's -- there's something lingering. I think everyone who I've spoken to, every fan in this stadium was kind of saying 
 
 something feels slightly different about this. Obviously, it's my first World Cup, but I spoke to some people who have been to several World Cups 
 
 and they were saying that they're -- this does feel a little different. And I think that will linger over the whole tournament. 
 
I think obviously England winning today will maybe get a few more people on board a bit if you can separate the football from it, but I think it's 
 
 became quite difficult to do that.
 
SOARES: And the next match, correct me if I'm wrong, is it England-USA? I know USA is playing against Wales right now. When is England playing next?
 
PATTEN: Yes, England-USA on Friday. So, that's a really good game because the USA got a really good squad. That's going to be interesting. 
 
SOARES: What's your prediction, Ellis?
 
PATTEN: 2-1 England.
 
SOARES: Well, keep you to it. Let's have a look. Ellis Patten, really appreciate. Best of luck, Ellis. Take care. 
 
PATTEN: Nice. Thank you. 
 
SOARES: Now to the latest on the turmoil that we've been bringing you really the past several weeks that Twitter laid off employees of the 
 
 companies Africa headquarters in Ghana are accusing Elon Musk of breaking the country's labor laws and trying to silence as well as intimidate them 
 
 after they were fired. Let's get to CNN's Larry Madowo. And Larry, just break this down for us. I mean, what do these employees want to see from 
 
 Twitter here? 
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Isa, they're asking to be treated exactly the same way Twitter treated employees who were departing in the U.S. and 
 
 Europe. They want three months severance pay, like Elon Musk promised, and other relevant benefits, stock vesting, continued healthcare, and that sort 
 
 of thing. But they feel that that's not happened. They have not been treated the same way like everyone at Twitter. 
 
So, let me start you with the beginning here, Isa. They claim they only were offered severance pay after CNN reported on their plight. And after 
 
 that, they got an email in their personal emails claiming to give them what is called Ghana Mutual Separation Agreement, and it offered a seven-figure. 
 
 They say this email claims to have been arrived at after a negotiation with the staff. But they say they've never actually negotiated with everyone at 
 
 Twitter. In fact, they don't even have a way to contact anyone at Twitter because their emails keep bouncing back. 
 
So, they've rejected that severance pay offer. They have hired a lawyer and have written a demand notice to Twitter asking Twitter to comply with 
 
 Ghanian employment laws. They're based in Accra in Ghana. They have also petitioned the chief Labor Office and the Ghana government to compel 
 
 Twitter to do the right thing. 
 
Here's a portion of that notice to that official in Ghana. "It is clear that Twitter and Elon Musk is either deliberately or recklessly flouting 
 
 the laws of Ghana, is operating in bad faith and in a manner that seeks to silence and intimidate former employees into accepting any terms 
 
 unilaterally thrown at them. Without pressure from higher authorities, they are clearly not willing to provide a fair or just package in order to 
 
 minimize hardship of this takeover and resulting loss of jobs on their workforce in Africa." Some of these employees, Isa, were actually hired 
 
 from Nigeria and other countries. They want to be paid to move back to their countries.
 
SOARES: It sounds pretty reasonable. I think that's fair. But what is Twitter saying? I know they're not getting any much of an answer, their 
 
 emails bouncing back. What are they saying to CNN about this?
 
MADOWO: CNN has contacted Twitter repeatedly. We have not heard back. There's been reports that Twitter does not appear to have much of a press 
 
 team since these global layoffs that affected the company. We keep trying to contact them and hear what the official response to this is. So far, 
 
 Elon Musk (INAUDIBLE) tweets quite a bit has not responded to these employees. 
 
And it's not (INAUDIBLE) Isa, that Elon Musk was actually born in South Africa. So, technically, he's an African and many point out that they 
 
 expected that he should have treated the African team, it's a small team of about a dozen, better that he is so far -- he's after all a billionaire, 
 
 the world's richest man. 
 
SOARES: Not much of a comms team, not much of an engineering team, I've heard. Larry Madowo. Thank you very much, Larry. Good to see you. We'll be 
 
 back after this short break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:52:43]
 
SOARES: Welcome back. Now this week on the show, we'll be digging into the world of startups. For any new business, the hunt for funding is one of the 
 
 biggest hurdles. But in Abu Dhabi, a government initiative is lending a helping hand. CNN'S Eleni Giokos reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A startup success lies in its ability to scale and that rarely comes cheap. Entrepreneurs like Nadim Habr are always 
 
 on the hunt to secure funding.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MOHAMED BINALI, SENIOR ASSOCIATE PRODUCTS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, HUB71: Hi, Nadim. 
 
NADIM HABR, FOUNDER, DESIGNHUBZ: How are you? 
 
BINALI: How are youo? 
 
HABR: I'm good. 
 
BINALI: How's everything? 
 
HABR: Great, great. 
 
BINALI: Great to see you again. So -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GIOKOS: Nadim is part of Hub71, a government initiative aimed at attracting and growing startups. Today, he's meeting with Mohamed Bin Ali, a Hub71 
 
 employee who helps connect startups with venture capital firms in the region.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BINALI: I send a follow up to them and -- 
 
HABR: Keep me in the loop. He seemed excited about it. So hopefully I think that will be good for you. Fundraising is one of the most challenging 
 
 parts, I would say, usually for founders. It's really a complete hustle like everything else in a startup. But having as well backers and renowned 
 
 backers like the ones we already have and the right partners. So, Hub71 is one of them, to be able to help us and our fundraisers is a crucial part 
 
 because at the end of the day, it's a network effect.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GIOKOS: Hub71 launched in 2019. Since then, it has helped more than 100 companies set up their businesses obtain office space, source talents, and 
 
 perhaps most importantly, secure funding. Startups in the program have collectively raised more than $400 million since 2019. Nadim and his CTO, 
 
 Chady Karlitch, are trying to get a piece of that pie and secure $3 million for their tech startup, DesignHubz. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HABR: So the camera is working amazing. My face taking dimensions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GIOKOS: Their company provides augmented reality solutions for e-commerce brands, allowing users to try on products virtually before purchasing them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHADY KARLITCH, CTO, DESIGNHUBZ: Synthetic data, no? 
 
HABR: Yes. 
 
KARLITCH: OK. I think we'll go through like the volume, a big volume of that data. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
GIOKOS: They say they've worked with major brands like Samsung, Microsoft, Oracle, and IKEA just to name a few. The two hope to tap into Hub71's 
 
 network of venture capital to close their funding round by the end of this year and take their company to the next level. Eleni Giokos, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: Well, in an annual tradition, U.S. President, you can see there, Joe Biden, pardoned two turkeys named Chocolate and Chip at the White House 
 
 earlier. The President took the opportunity to poke some fun at the Republicans performance, if you remember that in the midterms, and this is 
 
 what he said. "The only red wave this season's going to be if German Shepherd, Commander, knocks over the cranberry sauce on our table." A 
 
 comment I have no doubt may ruffle some feathers in the Republican cap. Thanks very much for your company. I shall see you tomorrow. Have a 
 
 wonderful day. "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" is up next.
 
END