Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia Hits Ukrainian Infrastructure In Large Scale Attack; Twin Blasts Shake Jerusalem, Killing Teen And Wounding 18; Japan Stun Germany 2-1 In Another Huge Qatar Upset; China's Daily COVID Cases Hit Record High; Workers At The World's Largest iPhone Factory In China Clash With Police; Iranian Doctor Describes Brutal Crackdown on Protesters; Six Killed, Gunman Identified as Walmart Employee; Zhou Guanyu Makes History as China's First F1 Driver. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired November 24, 2022 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[01:00:00]
 
ANNA COREN, CNN ANCHOR: Ahead on CNN Newsroom, weaponizing winter, Russian missiles pound Ukraine knocking out powered millions as temperatures fall. Clashes at the world's largest iPhone factory with workers angry about their pay and safety. And Germany's football team is the latest to take a stand at the World Cup saying the voice has been denied.
 
We begin with Russia's latest barrage of missile strikes across Ukraine at targeting the country's critical infrastructure and killing at least seven Ukrainians. The large scale assault on Wednesday knocked out power too much of the country including the capital Kyiv, but hours later, a number of regions were reporting that repair work had largely restored the power supply. 
 
The strikes also caused a massive blackout in neighboring Moldova, where the Prime Minister sent a message of support to Ukraine after Russia's attack.
 
Meantime Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy urgent and emergency meeting of the UN Security Council to support the Ukrainian peace formula, saying there should be no room for terror in the world.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Energy terrorists comparable to the use of weapons of mass destruction. When we have the temperature below zero, and scores of millions of people without energy supplies without heating, without water, this is an obvious crime against humanity.
 
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE UN: Colleagues, it seems that Putin is determined to reduce Ukraine's energy facilities to rubble. Putin's motive could not be more clear and more cold blooded. He is clearly, clearly weaponizing winter to inflict immense suffering on the Ukrainian people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) COREN: And they recently liberated her son region, we're now learning how Ukrainian citizens mounted a fierce resistance and fought back against the Russian occupation. CNN Sam Kiley spoke with some of them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Archie killed twice while he was still a teenager.
 
KILEY (on camera): If I'm the guy who stops to pee, so I'm having a pee. And then what do you do ?
 
Oh, God, I got to chill.
 
KILEY (voiceover): He says he left his victim to bleed on the grass in the pitch dark. Archie struck again moments later, another drunk Russian soldier. Another throat cut. He acted alone, but now he was one of Kherson's resistance fighters.
 
ARCHIE, KHERSON RESISTANCE FIGHTER (through translator): They were wasted. It had only been a few days since they entered the city. I finished the first one immediately and then caught up with the other one and killed him on the spot. I threw with a knife and the jacket covered with blood and just left.
 
KILEY: Archie was only 19 when the Russians captured his city in March with a friend he says he drove around the city gathering intelligence to send to Ukraine's armed forces.
 
ARCHIE (through translator): At least 10 Russians were slaughtered every night. I wasn't the only one in Kherson. There were a lot of athletic and clever partisan guys.
 
KILEY: For eight months, Ukrainian partisans waged a psychological war against the occupiers and their collaborators targeting Ukrainians who took top posts handed out by Russia.
 
KIRIL STREMOUSOV, RUSSIAN-APPOINTED DEPUTY HEAD OF KHERSON REGION: As a result of a sneaky terrorists stacked today are colleague, my friend Dimitri Savchenko (ph) has died.
 
KILEY: Stremousov himself would die in the final days of Russia's occupation of Kherson City, which ended three weeks ago. Kherson was the only regional capital to fall to Russia, but its population made sure that the invaders were unwelcome from the start.
 
KILEY (on camera): That's incoming, then the last hour or so that we've been here in Kherson, there's been a constant, shelling backwards and forwards. Almost all of that shelling will ultimately rely on somebody on the ground telling the gunner where to drop those bombs.
 
KILEY (voiceover): Ihor's a young father. This warehouse is wrecked because of him.
 
IHOR, KHERSON RESISTANCE MEMBER (through translator): The Russian military kept here around 20 to 30 vehicles. There were armored trucks, ABCs and the Russians live here. I was passing by this place and I saw all the vehicles.
 
KILEY: Ihor communicated on his phone app with his handler, Codename the Smoke.
 
IHOR (through translator): I turned on the camera and pointed it at the building and I was just walking and talking on the phone and the camera was filming. I deleted the video of course because if they would stop me somewhere and check my videos and pictures, there'll be questions.
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
KILEY: Less than a day later he says Russian vehicles were a mangled mess as Ukraine range missiles down on the newly identified target. It was a crucial step in destroying Russia's capacity to hold on to the city. With the Russians now massed on the eastern side of the Dnipro River, they're close and still control 60 percent of the province, which they claim is now part of Russia. No doubt there are many Ukrainians among them, who will also prepare to prove them wrong and to kill.
 
KILEY (on camera): Do you feel sorry for the guys who killed at all/
 
ARCHIE: No.
 
KILEY: Sam Kiley, CNN, Kherson City.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
COREN: The European Parliament is now recognizing Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism, in what's considered a symbolic move since the European Union itself cannot officially designate states as sponsors of terrorism. Well, this comes after a non-binding vote on Wednesday, as Parliament announced it made the decision amid the destruction of civilian infrastructure and quote, deliberate attacks and atrocities by Russian forces against civilians in Ukraine.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YLVA JOHANSSON, EU HOME AFFAIRS COMMISSIONER: This is yet another lie that we have been hearing constantly from the Russian side that the Russian military is conducting an operation targeting military objects only. In reality, the more the Russian army is being pushed back and defeated on the battlefield, the more it is targeting civilian objects with an attempt to frighten the Ukrainian society, and weaken its result.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Following Wednesday's vote, the Parliament's president said its website was hit by a sophisticated cyber-attack. He said the IT experts were pushing back and working to protect its systems.
 
And Israeli court has imposed a gag order on the investigation into a deadly double bombing in Jerusalem. Two explosions hit the city less than 30 minutes apart on Wednesday, killing a teenager and leaving 18 other people injured. No one has claimed responsibility and police are searching for the suspects. Hours after the attacks, hundreds of people attended a funeral for the 15-year-old who was killed. Prime Minister Yair Lapid and his likely successor Benjamin Netanyahu, both promised a strong response.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YAIR LAPID, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): And I want to tell the citizens of Israel, we will get them. They can flee, they can hide but that will not help them. The security forces will reach them. If they resist, they will be eliminated. If not, we will punish them to the fullest extent of the law.
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER-DESIGNATE (through translator): We are still in a struggle against terror, which has raised its head again and we will do everything to restore security for all citizens of Israel soon.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Prime Minister Lapid also noted the alarming level of sophistication seen in these attacks. And there are concerns more could follow. CNN's Hadas Gold has this report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Sirens ringing out during rush hour after a double bombing shook Jerusalem Wednesday morning, a 15-year-old student was killed and more than 14 injured in what authorities are calling a suspected coordinated combined terror attack.
 
The first explosion captured on CCTV footage widely shared on social media rocking a bus station at one of the main entrances to the city. The blast so strong debris and pockmarks reaching past three lanes of traffic. Authorities believe a bag or package was placed at the bus stop around 7:00 a.m. and was likely detonated remotely the first blast killing the teenage boy, a Canadian-Israeli citizen who was a student at a Jewish religious school and injuring at least 11 others.
 
A second blast occurred not far from the first around half an hour later at the city's remote junction lightly injuring three people. A spokesman for first responders at the scene telling CNN the injuries inflicted show the hallmarks of terror.
 
RAPHAEL POCH, SPOKESPERSON, UNITED HATZALAH INTERNATIONAL: There were shrapnel injuries and nails and ball bearings and those types of things which were very common to be placed in bombs that detonate for the sake of terror were definitely a factor as well.
 
GOLD: The incident reminiscent of the style of attacks carried out in the Second Intifada, organized and technically sophisticated.
 
POCH: So this is something very, very tragic. It's something we haven't seen in a very long time and we hope it doesn't come back to become a routine or irregular situation.
 
GOLD: Israel's Prime Minister Yair Lapid also noting the worrying development.
 
LAPID (through translator): This event is different from what we have seen in recent years. An extensive intelligence effort is now underway that will lead us to find these heinous terrorists those behind them and those who provided them with weapons.
 
GOLD: As Israeli police search for suspects the man pushing to become public security minister in the incoming government arrived at the scene. The far right leader Itamar Ben-Gvir calling for sweeping security measures in response.
 <br>[01:10:02]
 
ITAMAR BEN-GVIR, JEWISH POWER PARTY LEADER (through translator): Charging a price for the terror means checking where these terrorists came from reaching their villages, whether they are in Israel or in Judea and Samaria, imposing a curfew, going from house to house and searching for weapons and bringing back deterrence and governance.
 
GOLD: A deadly escalation in what's already been one of the most violent years in this region since the days of the Second Intifada, as fears grows, that this attack will bring more. Hadas Gold, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
COREN: Well, joining us now from Jerusalem., Gil Hoffman is the executive director of the media watchdog, HonestReporting and a veteran Israeli political analyst. Gil, good to have you with us. This is the first bomb attack on Israeli citizens in Israel in more than six years. What more are you learning?
 
GIL HOFFMAN, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, HONESTREPORTING: We're learning that this was an incident that was intended to strike fear in the hearts and minds of the people of Israel, once again, and prevent us from being able to go to work and go to school and that now, after having the election that we did, and electing a more security minded government, because of the wave of terror that's been going on for months, there will be an increased effort to form that government faster in order to try to quell that terror.
 
COREN: Gil, can you explain to me why there is a gag order in place.
 
HOFFMAN: I know that there's an investigation taking place right now. They have not apprehended the perpetrators of the attack. You know, a stabbing or shooting can be a lone wolf. But when you have a sophisticated bomb that went off in two different places that could shatter a bus, and have packed with so many explosives and with screws in order to maximize death, you need a very extensive terrorist apparatus behind it.
 
So, I understand that there's a lot going on right now, in order to apprehend not only the person who put that bomb right there that murdered that child, but also the terrorist infrastructure behind him.
 
COREN: It has been described by authorities as a complex attack with the bombs that they weren't as big or as sophisticated as what you have seen in the past in Israel. We know this is not a lone wolf attack. So I guess there are concerns that this could be the start of the third intifada.
 
HOFFMAN: You know, we've heard that so many times, and the second Intifada never ended. There have never been a halt of attempts to try to murder Jews in the State of Israel. What happened was that the Israeli army took steps in order to hit the terrorism at the top and succeeded for a long time.
 
If the world wonders why Israel is entered places like the (INAUDIBLE) Nablus, it's happened because that's been necessary in order to stop the murder of children like what happened today. And don't be surprised if it happens again. And if the world condemns it again, and then they're only facilitating terror again in the future.
 
COREN: Gil, as we know, Benjamin Netanyahu, the winner of the November one election, who is expected to be your next prime minister, he is locked in negotiations to form what will be Israel's most far right wing government in its history. Surely, there are concerns that this will only throw fuel on the fire.
 
HOFFMAN: I don't know if it's the most right wing government we've ever had. I know it's going to be one of the most security minded governments that we've ever had. And that's what the people of Israel voted for that they had a wave of terror on the streets where people didn't realize or know whether it was safe to go shopping, and strike anywhere.
 
And that fear compelled them to vote for parties that put security first on their agenda. And if those parties when they come to power, take steps to quell that terror that would help Jewish Christians and Muslims, Israeli Arabs and Palestinians. It won't intensify the situation. Hopefully it will calm the situation.
 
COREN: Gil, say said that this will be the most security minded government. There will obviously be calls for tougher measures taken against this sort of violence. But is that the only answer to address this increasing violence?
 
HOFFMAN: It would be wonderful if there could be peace talks. I haven't seen Abu Mazen Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader immediately go in and condemn the attack and say that he will do everything possible to bring the perpetrators to justice. If there had been a partner of the Palestinian side fulfilling its obligations in previous Peace Accords, to stop terror, then of course, the security steps would not be needed as much and I hope that day comes soon.
 
COREN: Gil Hoffman, thank you for your time.
 
HOFFMAN: Pleasure.
 <br>[01:15:00] COREN: Well, to The World Cup and yet another underdog upsetting a heavyweight. This time it was Japan taking down the mighty Germany.
 
Well, fans in Tokyo screaming and streaming into the streets. Phones held high to capture this moment in time. The Samurai Blue trailed the Germans after the first half with scored twice in the second. CNN's Don Riddell has a closer look at the unlikely victory and a preview of Thursday's action.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT (on camera): Germany one of the most successful World Cup teams ever. They've won it four times, but on Wednesday here in Qatar, they made a disastrous start in Group E. However, before they lost their opening match against Japan, they staged a creative protest accusing football's world governing body FIFA of muzzling their freedom of expression. The players that hope their captain Manuel Neuer would wear the one love armband, a campaign that promotes inclusivity and is against discrimination of any kind.
 
Germany's interior minister wore the armband at the game, and the German Football Federation tweeted a statement saying that denying us the armband is the same as denying us a voice. FIFA say they will not take disciplinary action against Germany for the protest.
 
Germany made a decent start against Japan leading at halftime through (INAUDIBLE) Doan penalty, but it was very different after the break. When Japan equalized through Ritsu Doan and then Takuma Asano settled it with a brilliant finish to one wind sparking scenes of jubilation amongst both the players and the fans.
 
Germany's biggest rivals in Group E is supposed to be Spain and the 2010 champions dominated their game against Costa Rica thrashing them seven nil, that is the biggest winner of the tournament so far, and it was historic. Gavi, one of six different scorers on the night. He's the youngest World Cup goalscorer since Pele and at 18 years, three months and 18 days. He's also now Spain's youngest ever scorer in the World Cup.
 
Spain completed their route with a couple of late goals. Carlo Soler on target in the 90th minute. Alvaro Morata then added another for good measure in injury time.
 
Wednesday's Group F match between Morocco and Croatia wasn't quite so exciting that one finished in a goalless draw, but there was plenty of drama as Canada made their first World Cup appearance since 1986. Arguably their biggest star Alfonso Davis had an early penalty saved by Belgium's Thibaut Courtois and the Belgians took the lead on the stroke of halftime through Michy Batshuayi that turned out to be decisive in one nil win. 
 
The team that Belgium knocked out of the last World Cup Brazil will kick off their campaign against a potential Dark Horse in Serbia on Thursday. And of course, all eyes will be on Cristiano Ronaldo as his Portuguese side take on Ghana. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
COREN: Don Riddel, thank you. Coming up on CNN Newsroom, iPhone maker Foxconn backs down after violent worker protests rockets China facility agreeing to pay workers as promised. We'll have a live report just ahead.
 
Plus, as women across Iran defy the Islamic regime and demand their rights, the UN Human Rights Council will be meeting to discuss the critical situation in the country.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:20:31]
 
COREN: Coronavirus problems amounting for China despite its zero COVID policy. On Wednesday, the country recorded more than 31,000 local cases, its highest since the start of the pandemic. The capital city of Beijing alone reported its third consecutive day of more than 1,000 local infections.
 
Well, this comes as violent protests erupt at the world's largest iPhone assembly factory in central China with workers there upset about pay and insufficient anti-COVID measures.
 
Social media video shows workers at the Foxconn plant confronting police in hazmat suits. The company is offering those who are willing to quit their jobs and leave Zhengzhou compound a $1,400 payout.
 
For more on this, CNN's Kristie Lu Stout joins me here in Hong Kong. Kristie, these are extraordinary scenes that we're seeing out of China. What more are you learning?
 
KRSTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Anna, we continue to monitor these online videos showing clashes at this massive iPhone factory in the central Chinese city of Zhengzhou. Foxconn factory workers are furious and fed up. They are angry about the working conditions, about COVID rules. They're angry about their pay as well. And as you just mentioned, we have learned that Foxconn is now offering 1,400 U.S. dollars that's equivalent to roughly two month's salary to new hires willing to quit and leave the factory all in a bid to somehow restore order and to end these protests.
 
In these videos, you see a tense standoff between workers and hazmat clad security forces. You see that workers tearing down barriers. You see all out chaos breaking out and in a live stream that has since been taken down. You can hear the workers complaining about the pay, and about the conditions inside the factory that we have a fresh statement out this morning from Foxconn saying this quote, taking care of the health and safety of employees is the primary operating principle that the group has always adhere to. We fully understand the concerns of some newly recruited employees and the Zhengzhou Park about possible changes in the subsidy policy. Our team has been looking into the matter, unquote.
 
And we have also learned that Apple now has staff on site at the Zhengzhou facility at Foxconn. His statement from Apple reads as follows, we are reviewing the situation and working closely with Foxconn to ensure their employees concerns are addressed unquote.
 
Zhengzhou is a major manufacturing hub for Apple and as COVID cases have been rising there last month the city imposed a citywide lockdown which effectively shut down all non-essential business and manufacturing activity there are the number of Foxconn employees reportedly fled in order to make up the shortfall. Foxconn had been recruiting and giving up big bonuses to bring workers back into work in a closed loop system at the factory. Because of the ongoing COVID- 19 disruptions there even Apple has warned of lower output and lower production of its iPhone 14 because of the situation there and frustration over China's zero COVID policy which it refuses to give up, almost three years and pandemic.
 
It's not just flaring up in Zhengzhou it's flaring up all across China. You remember, there's protests that took place in Guangzhou last week. And it's not -- the situation continues to get worse, Anna. As we've been reporting this day, the number of COVID-19 cases has reached a new high, a high according to official tallies that China hasn't seen since the start of the pandemic. Back to you.
 
COREN: Yes, I wanted I wanted to ask you about that, Kristie, because as we know, cases are not rising just in Zhengzhou. This is happening, as you say right across the country 31,000 cases. I mean, not so long ago, that number would have been unthinkable cities would have been going into complete lockdown. So how is planning -- is China planning to address this this COVID outbreak.
 
LU STOUT: China is in a quandary right now. It has a lot of pressure to somehow unwind and to get out of this punishing zero COVID policy, which is upended both lives and livelihoods. And yet the number of cases are going up and trying to quite frankly doesn't have the medical tools in order to prevent the spread and prevent mass deaths because of a lack of medical infrastructure especially in rural parts of the country and also the very poor vaccination rates especially among the elderly.
 <br>[01:25:03]
 
There was a stunning statistic that was published in state news media earlier this week that said in Beijing, if you looked at the rates of booster vaccination among the elderly of those aged 80 and above, that rate was only -- was less than 30 percent. And that's a woefully low number. Back to you.
 
COREN: Yes, amazing. Kristie Lu Stout, appreciate you putting that into context for us. Many thanks.
 
All the way to China's zero COVID policy has become a burden for many as Beijing continues to introduce new restrictions. But now some residents are blaming those very measures for the deaths of their loved ones. CNN's Selina Wang spoke with a man who says his father may still be alive if it weren't for zero COVID.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): They sit together, sobbing, shaking, looking at photos of his father, her husband mourn his death at their home on the outskirts of Beijing.
 
The local government killed my dad, he tells me breaking down in tears. I just want to get justice for my dad. Why did you lock us down? Why did you take my dad's life away?
 
His 58-year-old father needed emergency medical help when their building was locked down. He says there were no COVID cases in the building. But China seals off entire neighborhoods even when there are only suspected cases nearby.
 
WANG (on camera): Do you blame your father's death on this country Zero COVID policy?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, we're sure.
 
WANG (voiceover): He says his father was in healthy condition when he suddenly collapsed. No one could go in or out of the building for help. He shows me the numerous calls he and his mother made to the emergency line. He recorded one of his many calls has became increasingly desperate. He says the ambulance took an hour to arrive. By then, it was too late.
 
He shows us the way to the hospital.
 
WANG (on camera): It took us about five minutes to get from his house to the hospital less than two miles away when his father was sick. He had four relatives waiting outside his building begging to go in and drive him to the hospital. But they wouldn't let them in.
 
WANG (voiceover): He says authorities and the hospital gave him no explanation for why the ambulance took so long. All they gave him was this document stating the date and time of his father's death. His mother unable to speak, overcome with grief. She cries like this day and night.
 
WANG (on camera): Why are you taking the risks to speak to us?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't want this kind of thing to happen again in China and anywhere in world. Because of the lockdown and the medical shortage, the shortage of ambulance cau8sed my father's death.
 
WANG (voiceover): Outrage in China is mounting over the human costs of the country's draconian zero COVID policy. China carefully counts every COVID death, but not the countless people who died because they couldn't get emergency care during lockdown.
 
Authorities have acknowledged many of those cases, but they usually blame poor enforcement of zero COVID instead of the policy itself.
 
Before his father's death, he fully supported the country zero COVID policy. The local government's execution of the policy is beyond reasoning, he says. It's inhuman. He shows me his favorite picture of his father, surrounded by family. His son who was closest to his grandfather, no struggles to eat or focus he tells me. The quarter of his room piled with lettuce, potatoes, leeks and canned food.
 
WANG (on camera): He says all this food here is in case they get locked down again.
 
WANG (voiceover): The corn planted by his father is one of the few things he left behind. His grief now mixed with fury. He struggles to comprehend the meaning of love. His father's death in the name of zero COVID. Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:31:48] 
 
ANNA COREN, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Anna Coren live from Hong Kong. 
 
The U.N. Human Rights Council is meeting in the coming hours to discuss the brutal crackdown by Iranian authorities on protesters especially women. Sounds of gunfire are ringing out across the country including in Iran's Kurdish region were over the past few days dozens of protesters have been reportedly killed. 
 
Well now the U.S. is imposing sanctions on three officials in connection with those deaths. Anti government protests have been sweeping across Iran since the death of 22 year old Mahsa Amini in police custody back in September. 
 
As many as 14,000 protesters have been arrested and at least 2,000 charged so far, with at least six protesters receiving death sentences. Lawmakers have been calling for protesters to be taught a quote "good lesson" to deter others who threaten the authority of the Iranian government. 
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh spoke to one protester about the relentless determination to keep going.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Iranians have been risking it all for freedom. To break free of the shackles of a repressive regime that brutality and bullets are only fueling the anger of those on the streets making them more defiant than ever. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We know as long as the Islamic Republic is ruling the country, couldn't do my duty. 
 
KARADSHEH: This doctor we're not identifying for safety reasons was one of hundreds of medical professionals who gathered in Tehran last month for a demonstration organized by their council and it was violently broken up. 
 
Doctors tell CNN at least one person was killed and many injured, including one shot in the eyes and blinded. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As soon as arrived there, the area was full of all kinds of forces, plainclothes forces was too much. And they literally shoot everyone that was walking on the sidewalk of the street. I have bruises, multiple bruises in front of my body and back and
 
 almost above my waist, but saw injuries with batons, and they beat a lot, electric shock. 
 
KARADSHEH: Just for going out and protesting, you could go to jail or get killed? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's not just death. It literally could be worse. We wish they'd kill us and sweep rather than the rhetoric.
 
KARADSHEH: Because of all the horrors n detention facilities, all these risks and threats to you and your family that's not stopping you and others? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Of course not. They killed more than 1,500 in three days in less than a week about two years ago. 
 
We know it could happen, And all of us will continue. There is no other way. 
 <br>[01:34:52]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We came from a long journey and we realize that the Islamic Republic cannot change and don't want to change. It is our duty to our next generation that we fight it and hopefully we can change it. 
 
KARADSHEH: And the Iranians can change it as protesters in other states, but they believe the international community can do more than just watch, condemn and announce symbolic sanctions. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They could close Islamic Republic ambassadors in United Nations, UNICEF, pay more attention. We need actual action.
 
The most important question is, are they willing to do that or not? To stand on the right side of history or not? 
 
KARADSHEH: Jomana Karadsheh, CNN -- Istanbul 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Well the head of Brazil's electoral court is dismissing outgoing president Jair Bolsonaro's attempt to challenge the runoff election results. 
 
The court president calls his request ridiculous and elitist and it's ostensibly conspiratorial. And he slapped Bolsonaro's liberal party with a fine of $4 million dollar fine for bad face litigation. 
 
That's after Bolsonaro filed a petition to have the round two ballots annulled. He claimed that some voting machines malfunctioned. Bolsonaro narrowly lost to former president Luiz Inacio, Lula Da Silva last month. Lula's inauguration is set for January 3rd.
 
The United Kingdom's top court says Scotland cannot hold a second referendum on independence without the approval of the British Parliament.
 
It's a blow to the Scottish National Party, the dominant force n Scottish politics who have been campaigning for a split from the U.K. a year. 
 
Party leader and Scottish First Minister Nikola Sturgeon says she accepts the court rulings but she also accused the British government of quote, "outright" democracy denial. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NICOLA STURGEON: The United Kingdom's is not a voluntary partnership of nations. 
 
In any partnership, in any walk of life requires one Party, to seek to the consent of another to choose its own future as not voluntary, it is not a partnership at all. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: The ruling is not expected to silence independence supporters, but British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak says it's an opportunity to address other more important challenges facing the U.K. 
 
Police in Chesapeake, Virginia have identified the gunman who opened fire inside a Walmart as an employee at the store. He killed six coworkers and then himself. Four other people are still in hospital.
 
CNN's Dianne Gallagher has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KEVIN HARPER, EYEWITNESS: They're a coward for that. He killed -- he killed people, they did nothing to you.
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The shooting happened just before the store closed for the night. This video was taken by employee Kevin Harper. He says the gunman was a store manager. 
 
HARPER: Just left out of break room, (EXPLETIVE DELETED) come in then started capping people up in there.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The manager just came from around the corner. He never entered the break room but he just stood in the doorway. And he just opened fire to anyone in the room. He looked at me and he shot near my head, and it was about inches away, I'm not going to lie. 
 
There were people just dropped into the floor. Everyone was screaming, gasping and yes, he just walked away after that. 
 
GALLAGHER: The Chesapeake police chief provided a timeline of how it unfolded. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our 9-1-1 dispatch center received THE first call a 10:12 P.M. last night. The first officers arrived on scene within 2 minutes at 10:14, and enter the store approximately 2 minutes later at approximately 10-16. And the scene was declared safe by 11:20 p.m.
 
GALAGHER: Police say the gunman was a 31-year-old manager on the overnight shift. He died at the scene from a self inflicted gunshot wound. Authorities say that he was armed with a handgun and multiple magazines. What remains unclear is why.
 
CHIEF MARK SOLESKY, CHESAPEAKE POLICE DEPARTMENT: We don't know at this time. The investigation is still ongoing so there's no clear motive at this time. 
 
BRIANA TYLER, WITNESS: I am new but I've have heard from the very beginning that he was the one to watch out for. He was just really stand offish. He kind of gave off like a loner vibe. 
 
GALLAGHER: The city says two of the victims were found in the break room, another near the front of the store. Three others died at the hospital.
 
This woman's relative who works at Walmart was injured n the shooting moments after he started his shift. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He went at 10:00 p.m. tonight, and we received a phone call, well, his wife received a phone call about 10:18 saying that he had been shot. He clocks in at ten so he hadn't even been there in ten minutes. 
 
GALLAGHER: Walmart released a statement saying it is shocked by the tragedy and it's quote "praying for those impacted, the community and our associates." 
 
This is the second mass shooting in Virginia in two weeks something Virginia Governor Glenn Youngkin addressed today. 
 <br>[01:39:57]
 
GOV. GLENN YOUNGKIN (R-VA): This is a horrendous event. It's a horrendous senseless act of violence. 
 
GALLAGHER: Now look, it's also important that we center to the victims in this horrific shooting. The six of them ranged in age from 16 to 70 years old. According to Walmart, they were all employed by the company. Their names are Lorenzo Gamble, Brian Pendleton, Kelly Kyle, Randall Blevins, Tanika Johnson, and a 16 year old boy but the city is not releasing his name because he is a minor. Police say that there is still not a motive that they know of. And it remains under investigation. 
 
Dianne Gallagher, CNN -- Chesapeake, Virginia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Well, joining us now from Washington is Joe Walsh. He's a former Republican Congressman and now an advisory board member to the bipartisan gun safety group 97 percent.
 
Joe, great to have you with us. Mass shootings in the U.S. were happening week after week in a country where you have a president that wants gun reform, a population where there is a majority in support of universal background checks and yet nothing happens. Why? 
 
JOE WALSH, FORMER REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN: Anna, good to be with you. Because gun owners like me have not engaged in this debate and led on this issue. And Anna, that's going to change. 
 
Look, most Americans you said it, most Americans support universal background checks. Most gun owners like myself do. The problem right now in this country is that we do a really bad job of making sure somebody who shouldn't have a gun doesn't get a gun. We've got to do a much better job with that. 
 
COREN: Mental health is often, you know, a big factor when it comes to gun violence in America. We know that the gun culture is part of the fabric of the United States, but surely Americans don't want guns in the hands of people who are not mentally fit to own guns? 
 
WALSH: Anna, that is a really good point. Look, gun culture is a big part of America. We have a lot of guns in this country. Again, I'm a gun owner. 98 -- 99 percent of all gun owners n America are law abiding gun owners. We have a Second Amendment that distinguishes us from the rest of the world. 
 
But bad people, sick people, violent people shouldn't get their hands on a gun. And right now in America we've got to be honest. It's too easy for people to get a gun. Too easy for people who would endanger others or endanger themselves. 
 
And that right there I think is really what we need to work on, and right there Anna, that's where gun owners like me can come together with gun reform advocates and really try to work on something that can make a difference. 
 
COREN: Joe, the Walmart shooting last night, that was the 608th mass shooting in the United States this year. Do you think there will ever be the political will to take on the very powerful gun lobby? 
 
WALSH: Yes, the political will, Anna, will come when gun owners like me demand change. Traditionally In America, it's been the Democratic Party and the left leading the call for gun reform, and it's been really easy then for Republicans, my former political party to just say no. 
 
But when gun owners like me stand up and demand that we implement red flag laws or demand universal background checks, well then that's a pressure that Republicans can't ignore. And I got to tell you Anna, that's why it's really exciting for me to be a part of an organization 97 percent, which is all about giving gun owners a chance to lead on this debate. 
 
There will be no change, none at all on guns un America until gun owners take the lead and they are ready to right now. 
 
COREN: So Joe, what is the answer? What changes in legislation need to be made? Because we know unfortunately it's just a matter of days or weeks before there is another mass shooting in the U.S. 
 
WALSH: Yes and let's be clear Anna, we live n a free society, we live n a society that values the Second Amendment and the gun culture. A lot of gun owners in this country, but what can we specifically do? 
 <br>[01:44:51]
 
WALSH: Again, if you focus on making it harder for somebody who shouldn't have a gun to get a gun, well then we've got to strengthen background checks, no matter where you, or no matter where you go in America, you have to get a really solid strong background check. 
 
We need red flag laws all over the country Anna. Red flag laws are where law enforcement or family members, if they believe that you are a danger to yourself or others, that firearm can be temporarily taken away from you. 
 
That by the way would've prevented last week's shooting in Colorado. We need to do that. 
 
And then, final piece to look at is I'm a gun owner. If you get a gun n this country, you should have to have training -- b basic training. You should have to get a permit that says that you got that training. 
 
These are all armors up front before a gun s bought that will help. And most importantly Anna, these are all reforms that the vast majority of gun owners support. Now it's time for gun owners to demand these reforms. 
 
COREN: Joe, you are speaking a lot of common sense. I hope that the politicians are listening. Joe Walsh, great to have you with us. 
 
WALSH: Thank you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[22:46:17]
 
COREN: Well next on CNN NEWSROOM, an ecosystem under threat. Why protecting the fjords of Patagonia is important to be well being of the planet. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: The Patagonia region in Chile is home to fjords that once teamed with wildlife. But the ecosystem is under threat. 
 
Today on "Call to Earth" biologist and Rolex Awards Laureate, Renee Hausermann (ph) explains what is happening to the area's marine biodiversity and why it's important to reverse course. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For me Patagonia is the most beautiful part of Chile. It's a very remote, very wild and rugged coast slam beautiful and remote coastline full of green forest, temperate rainforest, has lots of glaciers river lakes, and the coast is very steep. 
 
The marine life came from deep waters but also from adjacent areas. And so the diversity we has Bianca a elevated compared to other coast line. In fjords elevated compared to other coastlines.
 
[01:47:53
 
VRENI HAUSSERMAN: My name is Vreni Hausserrmann. I'm scientist working at the University of San Sebastian. And I'm studying at the moment bio diversity of Chile Patagonia.
 
Starting in Patagonia we've found many species that hasn't been described before. The coast line is more than 100 kilometers which is twice around the world. There are only a handful of scientists working there, so even if we studied on the main areas there are still most parts that we don't know yet. 
 
Patagonia was free of human impact for a long time but in the 80s when aquaculture moved in it started to be impacted. Life in the fjords has been reduced and abandoned. There are species we hardly don't find any more.
 
By impacting an area where we know very little about, we always have the risk that we are damaging ecosystems and their equilibrium of the ecosystems is lost. 
 
I hope that humanity understands the need to protect our planet. I hope humanity understands the need to protecting the oceans and our lives and the lives of all future generations depend on a healthy ocean and a healthy planet.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Well let us know what you're doing to answer the call with a #CalltoEarth.
 
Time for a short break. I'll be back in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Rescuers in Indonesia have pulled a six-year-old boy alive from the wreckage of Monday's earthquake. His parents and grandmother are among the 271 people who were killed.
 
The boy survived unhurt, protected by a mattress. Absolutely extraordinary. 
 
Meanwhile a woman who started having contractions during the earthquake has given birth to a son. She was evacuated to a medical tent despite the quake and subsequent landslides. The baby's father says he is feeling overjoyed and blest.
 
Well it's been called the world's first power astronaut. The European Space Agency has appointed its first astronaut with a physical disability. British paralympic sprinter will help the ESA create conditions for people with disabilities to travel to space. (INAUDIBLE) who lost his leg his leg in a motorcycle accident at age
 
 19 was chosen for the roll out of 257 applicants. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN MCFALL, ASTRONAUT WITH DISABILITY: I was incredibly excited and proud of myself that I got through the selection process. It's been quite a whirlwind had been given that as an amputee, I'd never thought that being an astronaut was a possibility. 
 
So excitement was a huge emotion, and I look forward to what the future holds. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: This Is the first time since 2009 that the eve ESA as named new astronauts to its program. 
 
Well now, to the racetrack, where driver Zhou Guanyu makes a living doing the sort of thing many people only dream about. Traveling the world of racing in a fast car.
 
He's also made history as the first Chinese driver to ever compete in formula 1.
 
CNN's Marc Stewart reports. 
 <br>[01:54:58]
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: As China's first ever F1 driver, Joe Guan Yu is feeling fueled by speed he and stale fueled. Just look at his speed and style. We recently spent the day with him in Austin, Texas as he prep for the biggest F-one race in the U.S. 
 
You like that? 
 
ZHOU GUANYU, F1 RACER: It's not bad. You don't like that.
 
I would wear it daily it's pretty cool. 
 
I think it's so cool that drivers (INAUDIBLE) 
 
STEWART: Do people recognize you when you get out? 
 
GUANYU: Yes. I mean it depends, where I am like the first time I'm in the U.S. But yes, when I'm in London it's quite easy. Yes I have to hide myself because they're a lot of Chinese people there. 
 
STEWART: Zhou road to racing began as a child living in China where he saw his first grand prix race in shanghai. 
 
ZHOU: Always cars, you know. (INAUDIBLE) When it was my birthday or something I'll asked my parents for getting me a little car that I can play around the sofa in the house and then, actually yes. 
 
(INAUDIBLE) like a few years because the whole leather will seem fully scratched because I was pushing there hard doing my own imagination of racing.
 
STEWART: Zhou's imagination prevail even though there were no real Chinese racing role models. So he created a path of his own, moving at the age of 12 from Shanghai to Sheffield in the U.K. where pros learn to drive. 
 
STEWART: Your parents are pretty supportive? 
 
ZHOU: My mom was definitely the one who was a lot at the beginning, but then now she's like for me getting more mature everything is like easy for her now. 
 
STEWART: This year, Zhou is living his dream, making his debut on the F-one circuit, driving for Alfa Romeo. 
 
A fan of basketball, Zhou shares his raising number with that of his favorite player Kobe Bryant number 24. He also looks up to Yao Ming, the Chinese sensation often credited for making basketball popular in China. 
 
ZHOU: Who knows maybe IN ten years time could be the same effect that's my end definitely. 
 
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, CNN SPORTS ANALYST: It's a great opportunity for formula 1 to make inroads in China, and there's no doubt that it just takes one driver.
 
It just takes as we saw one NBA player with Yao Ming. It takes one Olympian with Eileen Gu, just one and people can just go head over heels for that athlete. 
 
STEWART: Zhou's career may take it back to where it all began, if COVID restrictions don't block the 2023 grand prix in Shanghai from moving forward. 
 
ZHOU: There's a lot of people looking up to me and making my home very proud. 
 
STEWART: A young driver whose journey around the track s now coming full circle. 
 
Marc Stewart, CNN, Austin, Texas.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Thanks so much for watching CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Anna Coren, live from Hong Kong. The news continues on CNN with Rosemary Church right after this. 
 <br>[01:57:48]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)