Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia Claims Three Troops Killed After Ukrainian Drone Shot Down; Top Health Stories of 2022; Investors Look to Turn the Page After Rough 2022. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired December 26, 2022 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
JESSICA DEAN, CNN ANCHOR:  To get out of any stalemate.
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
I'm also curious, when this all started it was -- we were all kind of just couldn't believe there was a land war in Europe that was happening and, of course, that is still happening. But adding drones to all of this, how does that change things with the different layers and how they're fighting this war?
 
MAJ. GEN. JAMES SPIDER MARKS (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST:  Well, truly, this is the introduction -- a full introduction into 21st century warfare. When you're using this type of capability, like it is unmanned, it is autonomous in many cases, you've got a lot of A.I., artificial intelligence that drives these pieces of equipment, what you do is you put units at the ground at risk but you don't put a pilot at risk, for example. The limiting factor in air warfare is the pilot. And there are limitations to what you want to do in terms of the employment of those capabilities.
 
So, we've seen this over the course of the past two decades, if you will, where the United States was engaged in a number of wars in the Mideast. We're going to see this increasingly, the increased use of technology, autonomous vehicles in combat. This is clearly a step that we're seeing of the future warfare that has been validated over the course of the past couple of years.
 
DEAN:  And we saw the resilience of the Ukrainian people on full display over the holiday weekend. I think we have some video of a huge crowd attending a tree-lighting in Kyiv. We know soldiers were celebrating on the frontlines. We spoke with a member of parliament not too long ago who was talking about just the resiliency that continues to hold there.
 
How important is it for morale to have these moments on holidays, especially considering they're about to enter this period of a very long brutal winter, where they're not going to have heat and electricity in many places?
 
MARKS:  Yes. The Ukrainian soldiers know exactly what they're facing. The Ukrainian people have been confronted with this for the past nine, ten months. It is all about morale. How do you feel and how does your behavior reflect how you feel about what is taking place? And, clearly, this is a test of wills. Will the Russians outlast the Ukrainians? What the Ukrainians have demonstrated of irrespective of the pounding that Russia has been giving Ukraine and its people, is they are standing up and they're going to celebrate at this time of the year. I mean, it is absolutely magnificent and unsurprising.
 
It is all about morale and how you feel about yourself, how you feel about your country. This is about sovereignty. This is about independence. This is about staring down an autocracy that is completely out of bounds, completely corrupt. This is what will change the dynamic going forward.
 
There will be more suffering, let's be frank. There will be more suffering. How do you feel about that and can you continue to resist? It is a test of wills.
 
DEAN:  Right. Can you endure? Major General Spider Marks, thanks so much. We appreciate it.
 
From potentially life-saving discoveries to the ominous comeback of a virus this country hasn't seen in years, we're going to count down the top health stories of 2022. That is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
DEAN:  Well, coronavirus is no longer dominating the headlines. 2022 brought new health challenges and achievements to the forefront.
 
CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta looks back at the top ten health stories this year.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  2022 was a year where we began to really see the ripple effects of living through a pandemic. So, while it is clear COVID-19 is here to stay, other health issues began to take the spotlight once again. And some of it is very good news starting with number ten of our top health stories.
 
More people are surviving cancer than ever before in the United States. In the past three years, the number of cancer survivors increased by more than a million. The big reasons why, a continued decline in smoking. And we are catching and treating cancer earlier as well. But there is still more to be done.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  To know that nearly half of the cancer deaths in the world could be prevented is just astounding.
 
GUPTA (voice over):  A global study found that preventable risk factors, like smoking and drinking too much alcohol, high body mass index contributed to 44 percent of all cancer deaths in 2019.
 
Number nine, a new experimental Alzheimer's drug called Lecanemab appears to be one of the first to slow the progression of cognitive decline. Now, the MAB stands for monoclonal antibody. Lecanemab works by removing amyloid plaques from the brain.
 
The buildup of this naturally occurring protein can block neuro pathways make it a hallmark of Alzheimer's. Researchers found that the drug eventually helped reduced amyloid levels and slowed cognitive decline by 27 percent.
 
DR. BABAK TOUSI, CLEVELAND CLINIC LOU RUVO CENTER FOR BRAIN HEALTH: That is maybe the first medication that we have that such a positive result so far. But we have to be cautious about it.
 
GUPTA:  While the data is encouraging there, there were also some serious safety concerns in the phase 3 trial, brain swelling and brain bleeding. Those are certainly things the FDA is going to evaluate if the drug comes up for approval.
 
Number eight, mental health. In a CNN-KFF poll this summer, 90 percent of adults said they believe there is a mental health crisis in the United States.
 <br>[10:40:06]
 
And another survey found nearly one in four adults age 18 to 44 were treated for mental health in 2021, reflecting an increased anxiety and depression during the pandemic.
 
Continuing concerns over mental health prompted the launch of a new three-digit national suicide and crisis lifeline number, which is 988.
 
DR. CHRISTINE YU MOUTIER, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, AMERICAN FOUNDATION FOR SUICIDE PREVENTION:  It really treats mental health on par with physical health, just like we have 911.
 
GUPTA:  Number seven.
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY:  So, we have big news today that is going to benefit as many as 30 million Americans.
 
GUPTA:  Thanks to a long awaited rule change by the FDA, you can now buy over-the-counter hearing aids to help with mild to moderate hearing loss. Some doctors estimate that 90 percent of the population with hearing loss could benefit from these over-the-counter devices and this move could also make them more affordable.
 
Number six, between supply chain issues and an investigation into bacterial infections in a major manufacturing facility, parents around the country were frustrated as the baby formula shortage went on month after month.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It is terrifying when that is the only true source of nutrition that your baby gets because it would get to the plant (ph) where you go to a store and you almost cry.
 
GUPTA:  To help fill the empty shelves, the Biden administration enacted Operation Fly Formula to bring in supplies from other countries. The FDA has also been working with foreign formula manufacturers to allow them to permanently sell their products in the United States.
 
Number five, a case of polio was identified this year in Rockland County, outside of New York City, sparking major public health concerns.
 
DR. JOSE ROMERO, DIRECTOR, NATIONAL CENTER FOR IMMUNIZATION AND RESPIRATORY DISEASES:  Finding polio in a country where we've had high levels of vaccination, haven't seen polio cases for over 40 years is significant.
 
GUPTA:  Additional polio virus was found in wastewater samples in two local counties in New York City, suggesting there was local circulation of the virus.
 
Polio was considered eliminated in the United States thanks to massive vaccination campaigns and a highly more than 99 percent effective vaccine. The New York case was an unvaccinated person and resulted in paralysis, which is a rare but severe outcome of the disease.
 
Number four, life expectancy in the United States continues to drop. It went from 77 years to 76.4 years, which the lowest it's been since 1996. COVID-19 was a driving factor, as well as drug overdoses, which were deadlier than ever.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It is being driven by fentanyl, which is the most deadly and addictive drug that is widespread in the United States right now.
 
GUPTA:  Fentanyl and other synthetic opioids made up about two-thirds of overdose deaths, which claimed more than 106,000 lives.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That is one of the last pictures of him. That is actually the shirt he died in.
 
GUPTA:  Number three.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It started off with a just a few lesions.
 
GUPTA:  An outbreak of monkeypox, later renamed M-pox, put the U.S. on its heels this year, prompting another public health emergency on top of COVID-19.
 
Now, even though it doesn't spread as easily or as stealthily as COVID, cases of the disease climbed to almost 30,000. And the fact that it was spreading mostly among men who have sex with men meant public health officials had to battle stigma in addition to the virus itself.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They do associate with being a gay man's disease or a bisexual man's disease, which I think is not a great way to approach it, because any disease can be anybody's disease.
 
GUPTA:  While the vaccination campaign for M-pox got off to a frustrating start, it did eventually help get the outbreak under control. Number two, the overturning of Roe v. Wade made reproductive health here in the United States complicated for patients and their providers.
 
Dr. JILL GIBSON, MEDICAL DIRECTOR, PLANNED PARENTHOOD ARIZONA:  When I signed up to become a obstetrician-gynecologist, it never occurred to me that there would be a possibility that I wasn't able to take care of my patients in the way I'm trying to do so.
 
GUPTA:  The decision not only affected access to abortion but to other medications and procedures as well.
 
ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  When a woman is walking around with a dead fetus because for weeks because she can't get a surgical procedure, what is the danger to her?
 
DR. LILLIAN SCHAPIRO, OBSTETRICIAN-GYNECOLOGIST IN ATLANTA:  She could develop an infection that can make her sterile and never able to have children again.
 
GUPTA:  Public health agencies and medical groups worldwide spoke out against the ruling.
 
And number one --
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  This holiday season, the best gift is truly good health, a trifecta of viruses are spreading through the population.
 
GUPTA:  COVID-19, the flu and RSV, three respiratory viruses, all simultaneously circulating, creating a triple threat. The measures that helped keep us safe from COVID-19 the past two and a half years also did keep other viruses at bay.
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
But this means that some people, especially young children, did not build up immunity to those viruses, and that means they're getting hit harder this year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I think now you may be seeing result of that for all those sort of winter respiratory viruses.
 
GUPTA:  Hospitals are fuller than they've been throughout the entire pandemic. Public health officials are reminding people that the tools to fight COVID-19, like masks, hand washing, ventilation, can also help prevent other respiratory diseases as well.
 
But the most important message when it comes to vaccinations is the one that has remained.
 
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI, DIRECTOR, NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES:  My final message, maybe the final message I give you from this podium is that, please, for your own safety, for that of your family, get your updated COVID-19 shot as soon as you're eligible, to protect yourself, your family and your community. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
DEAN:  Our thanks to Sanjay for that.
 
It has also been a wild year for stocks. The markets closed today but what can we expect in the New Year? A look at what may happen with your money in 2023, that is still ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
DEAN:  Stock markets are closed today to observe the Christmas holiday. But many investors are ready to close the books on what has been a rocky year of trading. The S&amp;P 500 down some 21 percent since the start of the year. That is the worst mark for investors since 2008.
 
But there are some signs of recovery. Inflation is starting to cool off and consumers are becoming more confident about the state of the economy. Investors are now looking ahead to new housing and jobs data that is due out later this week.
 
Joining me now to talk about all of it, CNN Economics and Political Commentator Catherine Rampell. Catherine, great to see you, good morning.
 
All year, we've heard economists dreading a recession, and as we look to 2023, are there reasons to be more optimistic, do you think or not?
 
CATHERINE RAMPELL, CNN ECONOMICS AND POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Well, I still think there is a high likelihood of recession but it is not inevitable, it is not definitely going to happen. You know, a lot of the same risks still exist, right? We still have financial conditions tightening because of the Fed's decision to raise interest rates to combat inflation. We still have major disruptions in global commodity markets, including the energy markets. All of those kinds of things and continuing on uncertainty over COVID lockdowns in China amongst other issues mean that there are still some dark clouds on the horizon.
 
That said, we have gotten some more comforting data recently, including the fact that inflation has been cooler certainly than it had been earlier this year, and cooler, in fact, than many people expected. That is good news both for consumers who are weary about paying higher prices as well as the Federal Reserve, which may, as a result, not have to raise interest rates quite as aggressively as they might otherwise. I think they're still going to continue raising interest rates.
 
DEAN:  Right. And so -- go ahead.
 
RAMPELL:  So, all of that considered, I think things are better than they could otherwise be but I don't want to give too rosy a gloss for the outlook.
 
DEAN:  Yes, just kind of pump the brakes on being, yes, fully optimistic there. I do want to kind of drill down on inflation. We saw the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation show signs that the prices are continuing moderate, a you just mentioned. But in terms of if we're past it or not, the worst of it, do you think we're past the worst of it or do you think we still have a ways to go?
 
RAMPELL:  Based on the data that's come in over the past few months, it does look like inflations has probably already peaked, meaning that the sharpest increases are behind us. That doesn't mean the prices are going to go down, to be clear. It just means that they're going to rise a little more slowly than they had been doing in the past. It is hard to wrap your head around. But, basically, the idea is the car is still going forward. It is moving forward at a slower pace than it was in the past. It is not in reverse.
 
So, all things considered, it does look like inflation -- the worst of inflation is behind us but we should still anticipate further price growth, including price growth above what is the historical norm. Usually, the Fed wants about 2 percent price growth. We're seeing multiples of that today. We're still going to see it more painful than we would like but not nearly as painful as it had been earlier this year.
 
DEAN:  And another potential wrench here, this one coming out of Congress. We know that House Republicans are threatening to stall negotiations to raise the U.S. debt limit unless Democrats cut spending. The U.S. is set to reach its debt limit by next summer. So, if they cannot come to an agreement, what happens? Because my understanding of it is that it is pretty serious if they don't raise the debt limit.
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
RAMPELL:  Yes. Serious is an understatement of what would happen here. So, if we default on our debt obligations, a number of bad things would happen, including that would probably violate the Constitution, which says that the federal debt shall not be questioned, also potentially seize up financial markets around the world because, essentially, U.S. debt right now is considered the safest of safe places to put your money. And all other financial assets are benchmarked against our safety. If suddenly we reveal that we are not particularly reliable debtor, then that means that you're going to have credit markets or -- excuse me, financial markets around the world have these cascading panic effects, essentially. In short, you could have a global financial crisis as a result of all of this.
 
In addition to sort of more short-term operational problems, like seniors not getting their social security checks, service members not getting paychecks, lots of other bad things happening. None of this would be good. And I'm very worried this could happen next year because we saw -- we saw a kind of brinksmanship about ten years ago and I think, if anything, Republicans have only gotten more serious about threatening default.
 
DEAN:  Right. Well, we're going to see. Catherine Rampell, thanks so much, we appreciate you making time. And thank you for joining us today. I'm Jessica Dean.
 
Amara Walker continues our coverage after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:00]