Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Biden, Macron Vow Unity Against Russia, Discuss Trade Row; Relief And Worry As Major Chinese Cities Ease COVID Curbs; Morocco Make History And Reach World Cup Round Of 16 For Second Time; Russia's War on Ukraine; Wagner Faces Scrutiny over Death of Zambian Recruit; Twin Volcanoes in Hawaii Raise Concerns over Air Quality; Disgraced FTX CEO Continues to Speak Out about Collapse. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired December 02, 2022 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:23]
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers all around the world. I'm Paula Newton. Ahead right here on CNN Newsroom.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: Vive la France and God bless America.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: A toast between two friends and a pledge to support Ukraine. U.S. president hosts his French counterpart in his first State Dinner.
 
Defying authorities Chinese residents tear down barriers and attempt to break free from COVID lockdown measures.
 
And Morocco makes history at the World Cup.
 
Emmanuel Macron whirlwind trip to Washington is drawing to a close with the French president heading to New Orleans on Friday morning. Several hours ago President Macron and his wife were honored with a lavish state dinner at the White House.
 
It was the first of the Biden presidency and the first of course, in the post pandemic era, A list celebrities and some of Washington's most prominent influencers were among the hundreds of guests. The two leaders celebrated the ties between their two nations as they delivered their traditional toasts.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BIDEN: Today, we're still united by the greatest causes, democracy, liberty, equality, opportunity and freedom. We stand together against oppression and injustice. We stick up for one another in our democratic values, to which Washington and Lafayette dedicated their lives. And we still strive to build a world that's worthy of our highest hopes, and of our future, knowing that we can always, always count on one another as allies and friends.
 
EMMANUEL MACRON, FRENCH PRESIDENT: This is how to build our future and how to work together for climates, to fight against inequality for inclusive societies to unify our nations shoulder to shoulder we will do so and we will prevail.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Now before those toasts in the champagne and the entertainments the two leaders spent several intense hours together in the Oval Office, hashing out their views on critical global events and dominating their discussions, of course, was Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine. CNN's Phil Mattingly has our details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): On a day carefully calibrated, elevate and critical alliances.
 
BIDEN: Mr. Putin is -- let me choose my words very carefully.
 
MATTINGLY: President Biden signaling a willingness to open a line of communication with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
 
BIDEN: I'm prepared to speak with Mr. Putin, if in fact, there is an interest in him aside, and he's looking for a way to end the war.
 
MATTINGLY: With clear preconditions.
 
BIDEN: He hasn't done that yet. If that's the case, in consultation with my French and my NATO friends, I'll be happy to sit down with Putin to see what he wants has in mind. He hasn't done any yet.
 
MATTINGLY: The brutal war in Ukraine now in its ninth month at the center of a three hour sit down with French president Emmanuel Macron, after which Macron was explicit in his commitment not to circumvent Ukraine in any peace talks.
 
MACRON: We will never urge the Ukrainians to make a compromise which will not be acceptable for them.
 
MATTINGLY: Biden's first state visit underscores the value and durability White House officials see in the relationship with America's longest running ally, with two leaders going to great lengths to demonstrate their unity and iron out clear cut differences.
 
BIDEN: And I make no apologies.
 
MATTINGLY: Biden moving to clearly address French concerns with sweeping subsidies included in his Cornerstone economic and climate legislation.
 
BIDEN: But there are occasions when you write a massive piece of legislation and that has almost $360 billion for the largest investment in climate change on all of history. And so there's obviously going to be glitches in it. MATTINGLY: And providing assurances that issue would be addressed.
 
BIDEN: I'm confident. It's my answer.
 
MATTINGLY: For Macron, a day and a dinner underscoring a White House view of a relationship that has only grown and its importance in Biden's first two years when driven officials say by a genuine personal connection.
 
BIDEN: I began to refer to him privately as my closer --
 <br>[01:05:03]
 
MATTINGLY: A connection that has become critical in a moment when geopolitical threats have rattled alliances worldwide.
 
BIDEN: France is one of our strongest partners. And historically, but one of our strongest partners and our most capable allies, and Emmanuel has also become a friend, in addition to be the president in that great country.
 
MATTINGLY (on camera): And while there is no question the three hours sit down between the two presidents that are top advisors was packed with substance extraordinarily consequential given everything that's going on in the world. The real capstone of any state visit certainly this state visit is the glitz and glamour of the dinner.
 
President Biden holding that first state visit that first State Dinner rolling out a quite literal red carpet for French president Macron and his wife, Brigitte welcoming a couple 100 guests out to the south lawn in heated tents, really underscoring a relationship that has developed and only gotten stronger over the course of the last two years.
 
It's something has been on display for the entirety of President Macron's time at the White House over the course of the day. One thing White House officials make clear they're very happy in the wake of COVID, the pandemic all of the issues they dealt with in the first two years to finally be able to entertain, and of course, no bigger way to entertain than a state visit. Phil Mattingly, CNN, the White House.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
NEWTON: With us now from Los Angeles is CNN European Affairs commentator, Dominic Thomas. Dominic, glad to see that European Affairs has come stateside for you to parse on this day, a touch of glamour there that was, you know, overshadowed, of course, by the brutality of the war still raging on European soil. Right? I mean, what did you make of how carefully each leader spoke about whether they would engage with Vladimir Putin to try and end this conflict?
 
DOMINIC THOMAS, CNN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS COMMENTATOR: Yes, that's so it's really interesting to see. I mean, I think that, you know, the big question, of course, is what each of these respective leaders gets out of this invitation to, to the White House, and really around this particular question of the conflict in Ukraine, the situation with Russia, you saw so many different parts come in that were connected to that whether it had to do with climate and energy policy, whether it had to do with stability in the European region, whether it had to do with the values that each of these countries and leaders have embraced.
 
And I think that this is something actually that you and I spoke about extensively during the coverage of the French presidential election is Emmanuel Macron, his commitment to engagement, and to speaking to political leaders to keeping the channels of communication open, and whether or not they lead to productive deals.
 
We saw him, for example, try to engage with President Biden's predecessor that was unable to get him to move on Iran, on the Paris Climate Accord and so on. But in this particular case, you saw him trying to lead President Biden towards being more open to the possibility of speaking to the Russian leader rather than each of them in their respective corners, ultimately waiting for the situation to play out. And I think that that's an important distinction that we see in this particular context, boiler.
 
NEWTON: And likely may have been a reason why the meeting, you know, went quite a bit over time when they were in the Oval. Likely, that was a contentious issue. And perhaps as you say, they made some progress.
 
You know, a good deal of this visit, though, was trying to thaw the transatlantic chill, shall we say, over trade at issue, specifically, those American content provisions, right, and things like the CHIPS Act over semiconductors or the Inflation Reduction Act? I want you to listen now to what Biden said that, you know, he gave his shot at diplomacy, listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: We're back in business, Europe is back in business. And we're going to continue to create manufacturing jobs in America but not at the expense of Europe.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTOM: You know, Dominic, well, a charm offensive settle this. Macron has been quite strident about what he thinks about this American legislation.
 
THOMAS: Yes. And I think that with Emmanuel Macron, we know his foreign policy credentials are extremely strong, arguably, it's what drove him and returned him to the to the presidency, because right at the moment when the election season was taking place, the conflict in Ukraine was unfolding. And it became obvious that that was important.
 
But the domestic issues on both sides of the Atlantic are absolutely crucial, and the level of articulation, and the interconnectedness of these two particular spheres is incredibly pronounced and to have on one side of the Atlantic in the United States, this massive government investment in these particular materials and so on at a time when the dollar is so strong, when the Euro has been struggling and is absolutely crucial. And when Emmanuel Macron is asking President Biden to make concessions or to at least think about these particular issues, I would argue that that's where the discussions and we're going during that extended period is to try and educate President Biden on the particular issues and the impact that this will have on the French economy.
 <br>[01:10:10]
 
And how it's absolutely crucial across the board for them to find ways to be able to coordinate and to maintain their particular economies and stability instabilities as best they can, as they both face political attacks from far right fringes within their respective countries.
 
NEWTON: Yes, and that is a good point, because as you said, when you and I were having those discussion, we talked about the challenges that Macron was also facing in France. You are so good at parsing this for us. And I want you to take us now to Big Picture Europe.
 
Macron is really the de facto leader of Europe, is he not? Now this is a post Merkel world and you'll forgive me, I dare say the British leadership not quite fit for purpose, yet, it still needs a little bit time to mature. Do you think he's really settling into that? And we'll put his characteristic stamp on where Europe goes from here?
 
THOMAS: I do, Paula, I think that's a really important component of this. It is it is unambiguously clear that when President Biden is referring to H2 (ph), and actually specifically mentioning the pillars of the French Republic, liberty, equality and fraternity. He's actually explaining why this sort of relationship is so crucial, what the best way of life, it's worth defending. And he referred to President Macron deliberately, which would have been music to President Macron's ears not just as the leader of France, but ultimately is one of the main leaders of the European Union.
 
And President Macron in return made openings in that particular regard when he mentioned, I think the most interesting term in these discussions was the word resynchronization. It's this reaffirmation of the multilateral order that was weakened and undermined by President Trump, and from which they all have to benefit.
 
And at a time, when, as you mentioned, the UK is unpredictable, unreliable, as an Atlantic partner, that center of gravity has shifted in Europe. And it shifted away as well from the German leadership since the end of the Merkel era towards Emmanuel Macron.
 
And to that extent, his ability to speak English is also crucial. And his ability to position himself and take the sort of inspire the confidence of other European leaders is important. And I felt that this visit to the White House was not just a visit from their manual, and in my call, but also as Emmanuel Macron as the representative of the European Union. And you could argue Paula of Europe in a broader context as well.
 
NEWTON: Yes, a consequential visit in every way. And you've put it together for us quite succinctly given all those issues that we're dealing with. Dominic, good to see you. Thanks so much.
 
THOMAS: Thank you so much Paula.
 
NEWTON: Now to China, where state run Shinwa news agency reports at least six cities including Beijing are making changes to their COVID containment policies.
 
Now, it follows days of protests and clashes with police across the country. People have been fed up for months now with strict lockdowns and daily testing. CNN has verified 28 COVID related protests across 19 cities. Most have now been put down by authorities.
 
U.S. Secretary of State and Tony Blinken said this week China's harsh crackdown is not a sign of strength but a sign of weakness. And now China's foreign ministry is responding, listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZHAO LIJIAN, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON (through translator): The U.S. has a lot of domestic problems. It has adopted a policy of laxness regarding COVID-19. The U.S. leaves the world in both COVID-19 infections and deaths. The U.S. is in no position to criticize China's epidemic prevention and control efforts. Facts have proved that China's epidemic prevention and control is scientifically correct and effective.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Meantime, new video coming into CNN shows residents in cities across China tearing down those big metal barricades used by police to enforce those strict COVID lockdowns. CNN Selina Wang spoke with one protester and asked him what he hoped to accomplish.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): This person one of thousands across China willing to put their lives on the line to speak out years of pent up anger over Chinese draconian COVID markdowns wheeling over into protests.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I felt like I lost control of my life because of this COVID policy. Nobody is telling you when this is going to end. We are limited physically. And now we're limited mentally we are forbidden to express our ideas.
 
WANG: For some that cathartic emotional release spilled into calls for political changes. Some even chanted for Xi Jinping to step down.
 <br>[01:15:04]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He's the one who's responsible for this whole policy thing. But for me, first thing first, I want us to recover policy gone. And if we have more freedom of speech and freedom of press, of course, that would be great.
 
WANG (on camera): What do you think you guys achieved by participating in that protest?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you don't demonstrate, if you don't show them your voice your idea, they will never know.
 
WANG (voiceover): And this is what happened next. China's security apparatus swiftly smothered the protests. CNN is shielding the protester's identity because of fears of retribution. Even conducting the interview in a car to avoid tracking from authorities. Police are calling and visiting the homes of some protesters, and in Shanghai randomly stopping people to check their phones on streets and what appears to be in subways.
 
Protesters say they're looking for VPNs needed to use banned apps like Twitter or Telegram, which some protesters use to communicate. Another protester told CNN, I'm afraid we cannot hold protests like this again in the future. There are always undercover agents in our Telegram group. Every few beaters on the street, there are police and police dogs. The whole atmosphere is chilling.
 
WANG (on camera): I'm in the center of a protest in Beijing right now. They're chanting that they don't want COVID tests. They want freedom.
 
WANG (voiceover): Less than 24 hours after this, we drove back to that spot. Police cars as far as the eye could see.
 
WANG (on camera): Then a few days later, it's pretty much back to normal like nothing ever happened. And that is precisely the goal of the Communist Party.
 
WANG (voiceover): In Guangzhou, residents destroyed COVID testing boot. Police in riot gear immediately sworn in. They marched through a market share shouting at people to leave, firing tear gas to disperse protesters, pushing through with shields and making arrests. Authorities have gone into overdrive to censor all evidence of unrest online.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: By a white piece of paper actually represents the censorship and all the deleted contents and cannot arrest us for just holding a white paper. I still have that white paper I protested. I put it in my diary as a souvenir to show my future generations that you should always fight for your rights and never let your voice be silenced.
 
WANG (on camera): How does it make you feel though that the government even censored pictures of people holding white papers?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: By doing this. They're just going to make the crowd even angrier now of trying to silence us they should really focus and the trend to think why this happened.
 
WANG (voiceover): Authorities are silencing them but it seems they are listening. Right after the riots in Guangzhou, the city started lifting some lockdowns, removing COVID roadblocks. Unsealed. We are unsealed, a man screams with excitement as he bikes through streets being opened up. But so many others are still counting down their days and lock downs in quarantine wondering when zero COVID will really end. Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
NEWTON: For more on this, we want to bring in CNN Beijing bureau chief Steven Jiang. Steven, good to see you on what has been a remarkable week in China really by any measure. And as you've been watching all of this unfold, I'm wondering what you think given that the government is trying it seems to soften its approach. Do you think it's actually relenting on these policies? And will it work to silence you know, some of the protests that Selena just showed us?
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF: Yes, Paula. You know, the authorities have not even acknowledged that the protests took place. There have been some coded language in the media about recent events that were instigated by hostile forces.
 
But you know, they would never admit that the protests actually prompted some of the changes or adjustments in their COVID enforcement's in recent days. But I think what's happening here is a two-pronged approach by the authorities after the protests that is, on one hand, they're continuing intensifying, they're clamped down on any open dissent. And you heard the protester speaking to Selina in that piece. But we have also spoken to some other protests -- as protesters telling us how authorities have tracked them down by geo locating their phones at the protest sites. And also some of the detained protesters told us how police ordered them to unlock their devices to surrender their phones as quote unquote, evidence. And of course, we have seen in the past few days of police in cities like Shanghai randomly checking people's phones on the streets and even in subway.
 
So all of that I think is a very worrisome trend here. Some have said that is the Shinjang style, suffocating high tech surveillance spreading to the rest of the nation. But on the other hand, of course, we have seen some real noticeable changes on the ground in terms of COVID enforcements.
 <br>[01:20:03]
 
You mentioned some of that in terms of different cities and lifting their lockdowns resuming public transportation, and removing or even at least reducing testing requirements for many segments of the population and in some cases, including here in Beijing.
 
Finally, positive cases have been allowed to quarantine at home. But the problem here is that lack of consistency, that lack of clarity whether any of those changes would last if the surge of cases continues, which we are expecting here. And the problem is also any of the -- many of the underlying problems that have really prompted zero COVID in the first place remain in terms of the lack of medical preparation for a potential surge of severe cases and also the low vaccination rate among the elderly.
 
But I think one real change, Paula, I didn't notice this time around is the messaging, the propaganda from the government for the first time, you've seen a media all of a sudden printing articles about how milder and weaker the Omicron variant is, and it's causing so much less deaths and the severe cases. I think that this is something new because for the first time in a long time they're not demonizing this virus, Paula.
 
NEWTON: Right, perhaps preparing the population for a rising cases and eventually that more people will get sick. Steven Jiang for us live from Beijing. Appreciate it.
 
Now it's rare for an underdog to achieve a single upset at the World Cup, but Japan pulled off to their shock win over a European heavyweight. That's just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:23:39]
 
NEWTON: (INAUDIBLE), doesn't it. Japanese fans losing their minds in Qatar after pulling off yet another upset at the World Cup. This time they're celebrating the blue surprise, surprise win over former world champions Spain.
 
But you know that was only a fraction of Thursday's drama. Belgium fans devastated after their team, remember the world number two, they crashed out of the tournament. And the Germans are now going home as well even though they actually won their final match. CNN's Patrick Snell explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT: I'm Patrick Snell. And we do start with an absolutely frenetic World Cup group E, first day is two remaining fixtures, producing unparalleled drama and excitement every step of the way. Four time World Champions Germany out of the tournament in the group stages again. The Germans knew they had to win but despite taking the lead, Hansi Flick's man finally themselves to one down when their opponents Costa Rica score on 70 minutes ultimately awarded as Manuel Neuer own goal.
 
Germany did hit back to go on to win the match four-two and then Kai Havertz with a couple on the night so the Germans doing their part.
 <br>[01:25:00]
 
But ultimately it was not enough given the amazing outcome of what went down in the groups are the match more soul searching now to be done for Germany's national football team who were eliminated as defending champs at Russia 2018 as well in the group stages.
 
Now Japan who shocked Germany earlier in the tournament, looking to do the same to 2010 Winners Spain. Alvaro Morata putting the Spanish ahead, but Japan will level early in the second half and Ritsu Doan finally the back of the net in spectacular style with a really stunning strike and then just over two minutes later, they get their second I mean hugely controversial fashion as Ao Tanaka sliding the ball home despite the ball appearing to fully cross the line when it was played in initially from the left he gets checked and the goal is indeed allowed to stand after a lengthy check. Japan with a really impressive come from behind victory by two goals to one. The Samurai Blue celebrating a momentous win tonight just reach the last 16 but as group winners too.
 
Group E with a sensational outcome then and what a proud moment indeed for Japanese footballers for 2002 co-hosts advances they did four years ago in Russia. Japan win the group. Spain advancing as well in second but only on goal difference ahead of Germany who are eliminated in the group stages for a second straight World Cup.
 
Now to Morocco's drive. They're celebrating their own special piece of history. The Moroccan through to the last 16 for the first time in 36 years after beating already eliminated Canada. Hakim Ziyech with a stylish finish for the opener.
 
And just past the 20 minute mark, it's tunel (ph) as Youssef En- Nesyri, making no mistake to double his country's lead, two-one Morocco the final was an achievement for Moroccan football. I congrats to them. Morocco through so that (INAUDIBLE) the pressure on second ranked Belgium who knew they had to win to reach the next face and this would be massively disappointing for the 2018 semi-finalists and their highly vaunted generation of stars against Croatia will finalists four years ago in Russia.
 
Romelu Lukaku, hitting the woodwork from close range there. The Inter Milan man recently back from injury very late on with a great chance to win it with the ball coming off his chest and then away from goal Lukaku overcome by a whole range of emotions at the full time whistle. Belgium who are ranked the top side in the world earlier this year that out once again is jam packed squad full of talent and stars falling short.
 
While afterwards tearful Belgium head coach Roberto Martinez announcing that was his last match as manager of Les Diables Rouges a terrific achievement, as I said from Morocco, who reached the last 16 for the second time and they're now becoming the first North African nation to advance as group winners.
 
So, four more matches on tap for Friday, including a real grudge rematch from 2010 between Ghana and Uruguay. With that it's right back to you.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
NEWTON: Thank you, Patrick. A reminder that that match is a chance for Ghana to settle the score after a controversial play kept the black stars from advancing 12 years ago. Also in Group H, we'll see Portugal, and yes, Cristiano Ronaldo take on South Korea.
 
In Group G, meantime, Serbia will face Switzerland and Cameroon are up against the mighty Brazilians.
 
Now earlier this week, the Iranians were defeated by the U.S. in the World Cup their loss cheered by Iran's anti-government protesters. During those demonstrations a young man was killed. Human rights groups say he was shot dead by authorities. Iranian police deny those allegations. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh has this story. (BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Protest turned into scenes of joy and jubilation across Iran this week. Iranians were out celebrating their country's defeated the World Cup. Surreal but for many after touting its team, it was the repressive regime that was defeated. No longer could it claim a victory while violently suppressing its own people.
 
Mehran Samak was out on the streets of his city of Bandar Anzali in his car honking the horn in celebration when he was shot in the head. Activist and a human rights monitor tells CNN it was regime forces that killed the 27-year-old.
 
Authorities denied killing Samak. They're investigating his quote suspicious death. They say several suspects have been arrested. Investigations by the Iranian government into the deaths of young protesters since September lacked credibility and impartiality according to the UN. We're not allowed to report from inside Iran. Those who speak to his face jail or worse, making it hard for us to tell the stories of victims and those left to mourn.
 <br>[01:29:44] 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Samak's Instagram post is just a little snapshot of a life ended too soon, an athletic young man who enjoyed life, being with his friends and water sports. 
 
Growing up, he played water sports with Sayid Ezatolahi (ph), now a midfielder in the national team who shared this photo -- mourning his childhood friend, he wrote, "I wish we could always stay at the same age, without any concerns, without hate, without jealousy, without fighting to put each other down."
 
"After another bitter night last night, and with the news of your death, my heart is even more on fire." 
 
At Samak's burial, mourners chant, "death to the dictator, Khamenei must go." Every life lost brings more heartache, more anger, more defiance and determination of a people risking it all in this bloody battle for freedom.
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul. 
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR: Russia is apparently taking heavy casualties fighting for the eastern Ukrainian city of Bakhmut. How it is leading many to question why Moscow seems determined to capture it, apparently, no matter the cost. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: And a warm welcome back to our viewers all around the world. Thanks for your company. I'm Paula Newton. You are watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Ukraine says Russian troops are retreating from some of their positions in the south. On Thursday, Ukraine said they pulled out of at least three settlements near Zaporizhzhia. 
 
Some pro-Russian civilian governments are reportedly preparing to follow suit. And that is happening after Ukrainian strikes on Russian supply lines and ammunition warehouses throughout that region. 
 
Now southwest of there, Ukrainian officials say they are making progress restoring power in Kherson. Russian strikes left the city entirely without power Thursday morning. 
 
But now officials say the service has been restored to at least 65 percent of the city. 
 
The war in Ukraine high on the discussion list, as you can imagine, of President Biden's state visit with French President Emmanuel Macron in Washington. The two leaders, however, diverging on their willingness to speak with Russian President Vladimir Putin, with Mr. Biden saying he would be open to talks with the Russian leader with conditions. But he has no immediate plans to do so. 
 
CNN's Sam Kiley has more now from Kramatorsk. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Here in Kramatorsk, it's difficult to imagine any kind of diplomatic solution to the war in Ukraine that has been provoked by Russia's invasion back in 2014. And of course, it accelerated in a most bloody way since February this year. 
 
But today, Joe Biden the U.S. President, has indicated that he is, in theory, open to talks with Vladimir Putin after consultations and only in consultation with fellow NATO allies. 
 
And of course, the U.S. administration's position is that there are no talks about Ukraine without Ukraine. 
 <br>[01:34:59]
 
KILEY: The Ukrainian position is that any kind of peace talks are completely unconscionable while there are any Russian soldiers occupying an inch of this country. And that includes the illegally annexed Crimean Peninsula, which was captured by Russia in 2014-2015. 
 
But the war goes on. There is a bloody and bitter battle that I can hear rumbling in the background, even through the night, around the city of Bakhmut, which is causing the Ukrainians a degree of incredulity. They're losing men there and the Russians, they say, are losing even more. 
 
And then they are in very, very bitter fighting, frequently referred to as the meat grinder. And I know foreign volunteers are also describing it in that way, as the level of combat and violence is quite unprecedented, even in this war.
 
What the Ukrainians cannot understand is why quite the Russians want to capture this relatively obscure city or town in Donetsk at all. It does not represent, in their view, a particular strategic prize. 
 
Their only explanation is that it must be that the Russians need some kind of a victory, particularly on this eastern front, after their losses of territory in the northeast of the country and more recently in the south, around Kherson City in Kherson province. 
 
Sam Kiley, CNN in Kramatorsk. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Former U.S. secretary of state Hillary Clinton's is calling on Israel to help Ukraine protect its skies. In an interview with CNN, she urged Israel to deliver its iron dome anti missile system to Kyiv. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: It is time to give much more sophisticated defense measures. And I know there is a new government in Israel. They need to understand that Iran and Russia have now made an alliance where Iran is assisting Russia, particularly with drone technology to reap even greater destruction on Ukraine. 
 
So, Iron Dome, other means of defense -- I think defensive measures are called for and, wherever they come from, the United States, other NATO nations, Israel, now is the time to send a very clear message to both Russia and Iran. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Now, U.S. officials said Iran has been supplying Russia with military drones. And an intel assessment says Iran plans to help Moscow produce its own attack drones. 
 
Meantime, Ukraine has appealed to Israel for air defense systems. But Israel said it would only help Ukraine build an air defense alert system. 
 
Finland, meantime, is not yet a NATO member. But in light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the U.S. is more than willing to help the Finns defend their long border with Russia. Within the pass several days, the Biden administration has approved two separate weapons sales to Finland totaling more than $700 million. More than half of that is for stinger anti-aircraft missiles and related equipment.
 
The U.S. State Department said it was in America's national interest to help Finland defend itself against possible aggression. 
 
Russia's Wagner private military group is facing questions about the death of one of its recruits in Ukraine. The reason? He was from Zambia. And his home country is not buying the explanation about how he ended up fighting for Wagner group in the first place. 
 
Fred Pleitgen has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Mercenaries for Russia's Wagner private military company are fighting on some of the toughest battlefields in Ukraine. 
 
A social media channel affiliated with the group recently posted this video allegedly showing a severely wounded Wagner fighter trying to shoot himself rather than fall into Ukrainian hands. 
 
Now, the group has acknowledged a man from the southern African nation of Zambia has been killed fighting on the front lines in Ukraine. This is 23-year-old (INAUDIBLE) Nathan Nirenda (ph). Wagner's founder Yevgeny Prigozhin, known as Putin's chef, admits he recruited Nirenda him from a Russian jail and says he died a hero.
 
"I talked to him in the (INAUDIBLE) region," Prigozhin wrote in a statement. "Why do you need this war? After all, the chance of dying is quite high."
 
"And he answered what I expected. You Russians helped us Africans gain independence for many years. The Wagner group saved thousands of Africans. And if I go to war with you, this is probably a very small way in which I can pay our debts.
 
Zambian authorities say Nirenda was studying nuclear engineering in Russia but was thrown in jail for more than nine years for what his father told Reuters was a drug offense. 
 
Despite what Prigozhin said about Nirenda's alleged gratitude, the Zambia government is demanding answers. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How did he find himself fighting for Russia when Zambia is a country -- when Zambia as a state does not have any interest whatsoever in what is happening in that war.
 <br>[01:40:01]
 
PLEITGEN: Wagner admits it is recruiting fighters from Russian jails and even confirmed to CNN they are sending inmates with HIV, tuberculosis and hepatitis to the frontline. 
 
As Russia struggles with manpower issues, videos and inmate testimony show Prigozhin visiting prisons and offering freedom in return for contract to the frontline.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you choose to go with us, there will be no way back. Nobody will be able to go back to prison. 
 
PLEITGEN: But Africa has been the major theater for Wagner four years. CNN has tracked the units across the continent, including in the Central African Republic, where Wagner mercenaries officially train the Central African army but have also allegedly committed horrendous human rights abuses. 
 
Wagner recently published a propaganda video glorifying its military training in the Central African Republic, where the groups operatives show recruits how to kill effectively. Yevgeny Prigozhin says Lemekhani Nathan Nirenda was so grateful to Wagner, he was willing to die for the mercenaries, claimed Zambia's government clearly isn't fired (ph).
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN -- Moscow. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Still ahead, a wave of nostalgia for a more open China amid COVID protests and the death of a former leader. How Beijing is trying to walk a tightrope between censoring criticism and acknowledging a public outcry. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: China's plans to ease some COVID restrictions are not coming fast enough for protesters right across the country. New video shows people in Beijing and other cities tearing down blue metal barricades set up to enforce lockdowns. 
 
And authorities are apologizing for dragging a man from his home in the southern city of Hangzhou. He refused to go to a quarantine facility after coming into contact with a COVID positive person. 
 
The frustration in China over the government's COVID policies along with the death of a former leader has led to some -- led some to grow nostalgic for China's past.
 
As CNN's Ivan Watson reports, Beijing does not want the death of Jiang Zemin to galvanize COVID protests and anti government sentiment. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This was the week people across China said they are mad as hell and they are not going to take it anymore. The most widespread display of dissent the country has seen in a generation. Protesters are pushing back against the crushing lockdowns and restrictions of the government's zero COVID policy. 
 <br>[01:44:48]
 
WATSON: But Chinese state media never showed any of these images. Instead, on Thursday, offering scenes of very different crowds -- somber people lining the streets of Shanghai, honoring former Chinese leader Jiang Zemin. He died Wednesday at the age of 96.
 
Jiang is being given the country's highest honors. His open casket met at the airport in Beijing by current Chinese leader Xi Jinping. Jiang was president of China from 1993 to 2003, famous for his trademark spectacles and for periodically bursting into song. 
 
His death has triggered a wave of nostalgia on the heavily censored Chinese Internet. "Who would have thought that movies, books and even World Cup livestreams have all been censored," one person wrote in a post. That appears to have since been deleted by censors. "I miss the old man that just passed away. I miss the old times that were open, lively, embracing and renaissance like." 
 
MATTE BEKNK, DIRECTOR, ECONOMIST, INTELLIGENCE CORPORATE NETWORK OF SHANGHAI: : Maybe this is a challenge for the leadership in Beijing. It's allowing that outpouring of grief, nostalgia, memory, without having it turning into criticism of the current leader and the current administration. 
 
WATSON: In 1989, the death of another senior communist party official was the catalyst for the Tiananmen Square protests. They were ultimately crushed in a deadly military crackdown. 
 
Analysts say Chinese officials will be careful not to let Jiang's death become a flash point at another time of national tension. 
 
DALI YANG, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO: This is exactly why the authorities also time the activists -- the sort of the easing of the zero COVID measures yesterday. Partly in response to some of the protests and partly -- the news, also, actually the occasion of Jiang's death. 
 
WATSON: Authorities lifted some lockdowns in some cities on Wednesday, while also cracking down in other areas with police arresting and intimidating protesters. 
 
Jiang's upcoming state funeral may present an additional challenge for authorities. Will Xi Jinping's predecessor Hu Jintao attend? Hu Jintao last shared a stage with Zi at October's -- tightly scripted Communist Party Congress. He was ushered out of the hall, seemingly against his will -- a strange, apparently unscripted moment for a government that prioritizes control above all else.
 
Ivan Watson, CNN, Hong Kong. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: I spoke last hour with Don Weinland. He is the China business and finance editor for The Economist. And I spoke him if he's incremental changes and COVID policy by the Chinese government are enough to satisfy protesters. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEON WEINLAND, CHINA BUSINESS AND FINANCE EDITOR, THE ECONOMIST: I think the tipping point that we are getting close to is the number of cases, the rising number of cases in China. You know, if they continue to lower some of these restrictions I think that we will see a much quicker rise in the number of cases. 
 
The real problem that they face is if they have to roll back some of these loosening measures, I think that could lead to a lot of frustration among citizens in China. 
 
NEWTON: Yes, so if I understand you correctly, you are saying that the medical reality is there, the COVID reality is still there no matter how badly the government has handled it, it doesn't have a lot of options in terms of the fact that they set up expectations to stop some of these restrictions and then have to go right back to square one. 
 
WEINLAND: Exactly. So a couple of weeks ago, they announced some loosening measures. And you know, some places tried to implement them right off the bat and then they had to roll them back. 
 
I mean looking across China right now, there's plenty of places that are just simply ignoring the central government's instructions. So it's really a question of how they will be able to loosen COVID restrictions while they see, you know, the exponential rise in cases. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Our thanks there to Don Weinland, who is with "The Economist". And we thank him for his analysis. 
 
Coming up, why twin volcanic eruptions in Hawaii are raising concerns for children and the elderly. We will explain on the other side of this break. 
 <br>[01:49:16]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: Wow. Looking at video. Hawaii's Mauna Loa volcano is putting on quite a show this week, with its first eruption since 1984. 
 
However, the twin eruptions from Mauna Loa and Kilauea are raising concerns over air quality, especially for children and the elderly and people with respiratory problems. 
 
For more on this, I'm now joined by our meteorologist Derek Van Dam. So it is impressive to watch. But as you were just saying. How much more dangerous could this possibly get? 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes. Well, you think about it, when it actually erupted five days ago, it spewed this volcanic ash into the atmosphere. And just by the nature of what volcanic ash -- it's pulverized rock, glass -- it is very jagged in nature, kind of hollow. And it is very small as well, less than two millimeters. 
 
So, it can potentially be an eye irritant, a lung irritant, and of course, it can cause breathing problems. 
 
But this particular volcano, of course, we are talking about this slow advancement of the lava flow that is now more of a matter of inconvenience for the people who call the big island of Hawaii home. 
 
Let's zoom into this area. And you can see exactly what I'm talking about. 
 
Mauna Loa actually encompasses over 50 percent of the big island of Hawaii. And as we zoom in a little bit closer, this is very interesting. There is a highway that intersects kind of an east to west cut through, kind of a thoroughfare from the island and the lava flow is actually approaching that particular highway. 
 
So, authorities are warning that it is highly likely that that lava will eventually intersect the highway. They'll have to close the highway, help divert over some of this lava flow, which is right now about 3.2 miles away from this saddle road. 
 
But again, that is going to be more of an inconvenience for people because they will now have to go completely south of the volcano or completely north of the volcano to get to their destinations, which, of course the population lives on either side of the island.
 
So if you look at the lava flow, it is not moving very fast. And when I say a snail's pace, I literally mean it. Only 40 meters per hour. So they only expect the lava to intersect the highway, that saddle road I showed you a moment ago in about seven days time. 
 
So it's kind of a slow-moving disaster. But when we think about what is happening across the Hawaiian islands, well, we are seeing new land form, just like so many of the other islands that dot the Pacific Ocean, the magma bursting up from down below, creating some of those new formed locations, Paula. It's pretty interesting. 
 
NEWTON: Yes, I always learn something from you. A snail's pace -- 
 
VAN DAM: And from you. Less than a quarter mile per hour. 
 
NEWTON: I totally can picture that now. Derek, thanks so much. Appreciate it.
 
Now we have some dramatic video from Brazil. These are scenes of people being rescued from rooftops by firefighters in helicopters in the southern state of Santa Catarina. 
 
They were trapped in their homes after heavy rains led to severe flooding. Now the state's civil defense reports more than 800 people were forced to flee and 17 cities in the state are under a state of emergency. 
 
"A lot of people got hurt and that is on me." Those comments from Sam Bankman Fried, the disgraced ex CEO of the now collapsed crypto currency exchange FTX.
 
In two new interviews he was pressed about what he knew about transfers of customers' money from FTX to a separate hedge fund that he owned and personally controlled. Here is more now from CNN's Marc Stewart. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SAM BANKMAN FRIED, FORMER CEO, FTX: Look, I screwed up -- 
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Sam Bankman-Fried with once seen as the wonderkid on the crypto scene. Now he is the face of a massive failure. He claims his billion dollar empire has now been whittled down to about 100K in a bank account. 
 <br>[01:54:50]
 
FRIED: I was CEO. I was the CEO of FTX. And I mean, I say this again and again, that that means I had a responsibility. 
 
STEWART: Customers around the world are scrambling to recover funds following the collapse of the one-time multi-billion dollar business. 
 
Bankman-Fried shrugged off the comparison to Bernie Madoff, the man behind one of the biggest financial fraud schemes in history. 
 
A lot of people look at you and see Bernie Madoff. 
 
BANKMAN-FRIED: Yes. I mean, I don't think that is who I am at all. But I understand why they are saying that. People lost money. And people lost a lot of money. And I mean at the end of the day, look, there is a question of what happened and why and who did what. What caused the meltdown. I think that reads very differently right. 
 
When -- you look at the classic Bernie Madoff story, there was no real business. FTX, that was a real business. 
 
STEWART: FTX used celebrity endorsements from superstars like Tom Brady, Naomi Osaka, Steph Curry, even a Super Bowl ad featuring Larry David. But the big names can't (INAUDIBLE) questions as to whether FTX improperly used investors money to make loans to his hedge fund. 
 
BANKMAN-FRIED: I did not know that there was any improper use of customer funds. 
 
STEWART: You also took out a one billion dollar loan. What was that for? 
 
BANKMAN-FRIED: That was generally for reinvesting in the company. 
 
STEWART: As investors ponder what is next, Bankman-Fried admits he did not pay attention in a business that is based on trust. 
 
BANKMAN-FRIED: I was not spending any time or effort trying to manage risk on FTX like that obviously -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
STEWART: That's a stunning admission. 
 
BANKMAN-FRIED: Right.
 
STEWART: That's a pretty stunning admission. 
 
BANKMAN-FRIED: Yes, I mean, I don't know what to say. Like what happened, happened. I think I stopped working as hard for a bit. You know, honestly, if I look back on myself, I think I got a little cocky and -- I mean more than a little bit. And I think part of me felt like we made it. 
 
STEWART: It has yet to be seen if this may be a watershed moment, like the 2007-2008 financial crisis, and the Bernie Madoff scandal. Both prompted change to protect investors. 
 
Marc Stewart, CNN -- New York. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: And I want to thank you for spending part of your day with me. I'm Paula Newton.
 
Stay with us. The news continues right here with Kim Brunhuber. It begins after a break. 
 <br>[01:57:29]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)