Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Judge Pauses Biden Administration's Bid To End "Remain In Mexico" Policy As El Paso Overwhelmed At Border; HBCU Winston-Salem State University Responds To Video Of Student Being Arrested In Classroom; 5 Officers Indicted In Police-Custody Death Of Ronald Greene; Stocks Tumble As Investors Fret Over State Of U.S. Economy; NASA Launches New Satellite To Survey Most Of Earth's Water. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired December 16, 2022 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:30:00]
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: Do officials have an idea of how many more they could see in the next few days? 
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It's interesting. Figuring out exactly what will happen is very difficult to predict. 
 
Because, yesterday, we were on the Juarez side of the border here and there were lines hundreds of yards long. Hundreds of people waiting in line to get into the U.S. 
 
One of our colleagues is over there today and says that line has essentially disappeared. So that means a lot of people who were in those lines are now being processed by Border Patrol. 
 
You'll see scenes like this playing out. These are people who have gone through the Border Patrol processing system. They have been released if they're allowed to stay here while their case goes through the court system. 
 
And they are waiting for bus rides or flights out of this area to move on to other locations. But this is where they have stuck. 
 
The mayor of El Paso is saying, next week, when Title 42 expires, that the number of migrants coming through the El Paso area alone could be as high as 5,000. 
 
That number is slowing down from this recent surge in the days ahead of the expiration of Title 42. It's not clear if all of this was connected. That's very difficult to determine. 
 
However, they are bracing here for more migrants coming next week and more scenes like this continuing to play out. 
 
In fact, the Biden administration is projecting that all across the U.S. Southern border it could be 9,000 to 14,000 migrants crossing into the U.S. 
 
That is what they're preparing for. And the logistics of that is very difficult. 
 
El Paso says they are going to work on bringing in more buses that will move migrants from the city here to larger transportation hubs like Phoenix, Dallas and Denver.
 
Where there are more options to move people out to wherever they need to go in a much faster and orderly way, which, in theory, relieves the pressure on some of the border communities. 
 
Back to you to you guys. 
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN HOST: Ed Lavandera, there for us in El Paso, thank you. 
 
A historically black university in North Carolina is being pushed for answers. Why did school police arrest and handcuff a student in a classroom over an apparent dispute with a professor? We'll get into that next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:36:49]
 
GOLODRYGA: HBCU Winston-Salem State University is responding to an alarming video posted to social media. It shows a black student arrested in a classroom over an apparent disagreement with a professor over a class assignment. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED STUDENT: I swear to god, I hate you. I swear to god, I hate you. I swear to god, I hate you. You are the worst teacher ever. 
 
You get me taken out of here.
 
(CROSSTALK) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED PROFESSOR: I have asked you every day -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED STUDENT: You quit yelling at me. 
 
Because I won't apologize. You try to embarrass me about my paper. You're a terrible teacher.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is somebody recording this? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: CNN's Dianne Gallagher has been following this story. 
 
Dianne, what is the university saying about this? 
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The university right now is saying that the police there followed their policies. That is a video shared tens of thousands of times. It's one of several videos of that arrest. 
 
It happened on Wednesday morning. It was during a final in that class on Winston-Salem State University campus. 
 
You can see in this video that 20-year-old student being arrested. You can hear her in the video speaking directly to the professor, saying, "I hate you. You are the worst teacher ever." 
 
Saying that, "Because I won't apologize, you started yelling at me. You tried to embarrass me about my paper. And you get me taken out in handcuffs because I won't apologize." 
 
According to the university, and to a student who recorded video, this was about a final assignment and an argument between that teacher and that student. 
 
According to a classmate of that student, at no point were there any threats made by either of them. That it was a verbal argument. Both stayed on their respective places in that classroom. 
 
But according to court documents, because this student was arrested for disorderly conduct, she was -- they say she was repeatedly asked both by the professor and the police officers to leave and she did not. 
 
Now Winston-Salem State issued a statement, a lengthy statement from the chancellor, that said, in part: 
 
"We understand the weaponization of police as a prevalent problem in our community. However, that is not what happened in this incident."  
 
"We know the situation has caused a great deal of trauma to those involved and our campus community at-large. Please know that every available resource is being extended to bring a resolution."  
 
"We know you want immediate answers. However, the speed of our processes do not match the speed of social media." 
 
Now I will tell you Winston-Salem State University students, as well as students at other HBCUs, have taken to social media saying they feel traumatized. And this was supposed to be a safe space for them as an HBCU. And they now feel it may no longer be that way. 
 
The university has said it is investigating right now. But, again, says that, at this point, it does appear police, they say, followed policies. 
 
BLACKWELL: It is an awful, awful video. Hopefully, we get more details from both that student and from the university. 
 
Dianne Gallagher, thank you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Five Louisiana officers have been indicted in connection with the 2019 death of Ronald Greene. Police initially said Greene died in a car crash. But body cam video released last year showed officers kicking, punching, and using a taser on the 49-year-old before he died in their custody. 
 <br>[14:40:08]
 
Louisiana police superintendent, Lamar Davis, says two of those five officers have been placed on administrative leave, quote, "pending the outcome of the legal proceedings." 
 
In a statement, he says: "Today's indictments follow a thorough and extensive investigation by state and federal agencies."  
 
"And instance of excessive force jeopardizes public safety and is a danger to our communities. These actions are inexcusable and have no place in professional public safety services." 
 
I'm joined now by Mona Hardin. She is Ronald Greene's mother. And attorney, Lee Merritt. He is representing the Greene family. 
 
Thank you, both, for joining me today. 
 
Mona, I know you were initially on cloud nine, as you said to CNN, after hearing about the indictments. Once hearing these officers were placed on administrative leave, your emotions changed. Why? 
 
MONA HARDIN, MOTHER OF RONALD GREENE: Yes, it seems like this is a constant battle against the state of Louisiana and these top brass that do their own thing. 
 
In the midst of this grand jury -- and we are where we are right now -- that's what happened yesterday. This shouldn't even be a discussion. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Lee, let's talk about these charges. 
 
Master Trooper York faces the most serious, negligent homicide, and 10 counts of malfeasance in office. He was actually seen dragging Ronald by his ankle shackles. And we should note, he previously received a 50-hour suspension but then returned to active duty subsequently. 
 
The other officers face malfeasance and obstruction. 
 
Are you satisfied with the charges? 
 
Lee, can you hear me? 
 
LEE MERRITT, ATTORNEY FOR FAMILY OF RONALD GREENE: I'm sorry, yes. I apologize. I was on mute. 
 
We're not satisfied because this family has had to wait for over three years for any charges to go forward whatsoever.
 
And during that process we've learned so much. We know there are federal investigations going on. We're relieved that criminal charges are going forward, but it's a long way before a conviction. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Mona, this happened three and a half years ago. Authorities initially told you one thing. Then afterwards, you find out that's not how things played out. That's not how your son ultimately died. 
 
Video was published showing your son was beaten, held in a chokehold, left handcuffed, face down, for nine and a half minutes. 
 
I can imagine what was probably the worst for you was hearing him say he's scared. 
 
You subsequently commissioned your own autopsy. Is it your view your son died at the hands of these police officers? 
 
HARDIN: Without a doubt. Without a doubt. After seeing that video myself, within minutes, I knew my son was not going to live through it. I saw it. Everyone can see it. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Lee, what current legal recourses are you pursuing right now? 
 
MERRITT: Well, after the Union County prosecutor moved forward with these charges, we are, of course, coordinating with this office and making all evidence available to him and his team so that they can have a successful prosecution. 
 
But there's an ongoing pattern. And an investigation being led by the Department of Justice. We expect those to yield federal criminal charges as well. 
 
We're anxiously awaiting for the Biden administration and the Civil Rights Division of the DOJ to move forward with criminal charges. 
 
And the family has filed and is pursuing a civil rights lawsuit that takes a back seat to the criminal action, but certainly will be impossible for holding the state in this. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Lee, how -- how high of a cover-up do you think this went? There are numerous investigations happening right now including what and when the governor of the state knew about this. 
 
MERRITT: That's truly the most deplorable part about this case. What they did to Ronald Greene on May 10, 2019, was horrendous. 
 
But from the arrival of Clary, the supervising officer, to the leader of the Louisiana State Police, who terminated from Hollandsworth, who killed himself or died in a single car crash shortly after being terminated. 
 
And, yes, we are aware and there's been information shared to the governor, received text messages probably as soon as the night of this happening. I believe that was the time. 
 
It shows the level of corruption deep-seated in the state of Louisiana that demands the investigation that's going on but hopefully will result in major change. 
 
GOLODRYGA: So disturbing on so many levels, especially knowing this wouldn't even have been launched had the A.P. not launched their own investigation into his death. [14:45:05]
 
Mona, we are thinking of you. I know you said you wouldn't bury his cremated remains until justice was served and you are fighting hard for that justice. I'm sorry for your loss. 
 
And thank you so much, both of you, for your time today, Mona Hardin and Lee Merritt. 
 
HARDIN: Thank you.
 
MERRITT: Thank you. 
 
BLACKWELL: NASA begins a first-of-its-kind mission. This is not, though, about probing the depths of space. Instead, it's about surveying most of earth's water. We'll take you inside this new venture. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Recession fears are rising once again. 
 
BLACKWELL: And that means that stocks are falling. Take a look. More than 460 points off today. 
 
And this comes right after the Dow posting its worst selloff in three months just yesterday. 
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
CNN's Matt Egan is here. 
 
So the tumble on Wall Street continues. What's it mean? Where are we going? 
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Well, Victor and Bianna, recession fears are clearly taking back control of this market for now at least. 
 
If you look at the Dow, the S&amp;P and the NASDAQ, they're all down by more than 1 percent today. All on track to close at roughly one-month lows. 
 
Now this selloff really got started around 2:00 p.m. Eastern on Wednesday. That's when the three of us were on air breaking the Federal Reserve news. 
 
Now the Fed statement made clear that there's more rate hikes to come. And that's a concern because, the more the Fed does, the risk they could do too much and they cause a recession. The press conference reenforced those concerns.
 
This isn't just about the Fed. Because yesterday, we had weaker than expected reports on retail sales and manufacturing. That suggested some real cracks are forming in this economy.
 
You put the aggressive Fed together with the weak economic numbers, you get this increase of recession fears.
 
And I would note that Powell and the Fed, they're probably not stressing too much about the selloff because their inflation-fighting campaign requires tighter financial conditions. 
 
They don't want the market to boom. And the tougher they sound, the more negative that will be for the market. 
 
Some investors I talk to think this could be getting overdone, this selloff. Veteran market strategist, Art Hogan, said, quote, "It's too soon to be sounding the alarm bells."  He thinks this drop is likely overdone. 
 
What's clear is the market is pricing the greater risk of a recession. What's less clear is if the market's right. 
 
BLACKWELL: Sure. 
 
GOLODRYGA: And to be fair, the Fed's mandate is not to react or follow what the market does. But it's Friday so I won't be Debbie Downer today. 
 
We do have some good news to tell you, and that has to do with gas prices. What are we seeing? 
 
EGAN: Yes. Let's end on some good news. Gas prices continue to plunge. The national average, $3.18 a gallon. That is down 14 cents in the past week, 56 cents in a month. 
 
Lower than a year ago, which is pretty amazing. This is actually the lowest price for gasoline since September of last year. 
 
Again, it's also amazing because, as you can see on that chart, not that long ago, back in June, the national average was above $5 a gallon. 
 
This is happening for a lot of reasons. Some of them are good. Some of them are bad. 
 
I mean, the same recession fears that are rocking the stock market are also hurting energy prices. U.S. energy demand has been kind of soft.
 
But then, on the positive side, we've seen U.S. supply increase. And we also have those emergency releases of oil by the Biden administration. That has helped.
 
And these concerns about Russia's energy, that their oil experts were going to collapse, that hasn't played out. 
 
GasBuddy's Patrick Dehan says we could see sub-$3-a-gallon gasoline by Christmas Eve, which would be pretty incredible. 
 
BLACKWELL: Merry Christmas. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
BLACKWELL: Matt Egan, thank you. 
 
EGAN: Thanks. 
 
GOLODRYGA: New developments in the federal investigation into the efforts to overturn the 2020 election. What the newly acquired emails between GOP Congressman Scott Perry and several Trump allies mean for the former president. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:57:53]
 
GOLODRYGA: A historic liftoff. The first mission to survey nearly all of the water on the earth's surface launched today. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NASA ANNOUNCER: Two, one, engine ignition, and liftoff. Liftoff of SWOT, our first global survey of earth's surface water to study how -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: The SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket transported the satellite that will be doing the monitoring of the planet's oceans and a lot more. 
 
CNN's space and defense correspondent, Kristin Fisher, has been following this amazing project. 
 
Tell us more about this satellite, what it's going to be doing. 
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE &amp; DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so NASA has had satellites up in orbit for many years now that are designed to really track and monitor the ocean and ocean levels. Well, this is all about the freshwater. 
 
This satellite is called SWOT. You know NASA is big into acronym, Bianna and Victor. So it stands for the Surface Water and Ocean Topography spacecraft. 
 
And what SWOT is going to be doing is measuring about 90 percent, almost all of the water, both ocean water, sea water, and freshwater on the earth's surface. And what it's going to be doing is essentially determining what the height of that water is all over the globe. 
 
And this of course, absolutely critical when it comes to monitoring for climate change. But also predicting how climate change is going to impact those very vulnerable communities at risk of high, rising sea waters. 
 
So this spacecraft launched early this morning aboard a Falcon 9 rocket at Vanderberg Air Force Base. Early telemetry indicates that this space craft is performing really well. They were able to communicate with it.
 
But, Victor and Bianna, it'll take about six months for that first data to get back to earth. And so what this is going to do -- how it's going to help, it's going
 
 to do the following. 
 <br>[14:59:54]
 
It's going to improve computer models that monitor droughts. It's going to accurately measure changes in reservoirs. It's going to help communities plan future flow conditions. And it's going to improve flood forecasts. 
 
&gt;