Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Election Day In America; Leaders Arrive In Egypt For COP27 Summit. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired November 08, 2022 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, hello. Terrific Tuesday to you. I`m Coy. Grateful to be spending part of my day right here with you on CNN 10.
 
Today is the first Tuesday in November and that means election day across America. Millions of Americans head to the polls to cast their ballots but 
 
 they won`t be choosing the next U.S. president. Americans will cast their votes for representatives in Congress and candidates for state and local 
 
 offices. 
 
Every two years, all 435 seats in the House of Representatives are up for election while only about a third of the 100-seat Senate are up for grabs. 
 
 These are called midterm elections because they happen two years into a U.S. president`s four-year term. The midterms are the first chance for 
 
 voters to weigh in on President Biden`s term, policies and vision for America.
 
All eyes are on Arizona, Wisconsin, Georgia and Pennsylvania, four states that President Biden flipped to Democrat in the election but are now 
 
 battlegrounds states that Republicans could win back. Issues at the top of mind for voters are, the economy, social issues, immigration, concerns 
 
 about violent crime and concerns about election security and the election process itself. 
 
This year, early voting has surged in some key states, including Georgia, which shattered records for early voter turnout but rain forecasted across 
 
 the country today could impact voter turnout on election day.
 
We`ll hear more now from CNN`s Karin Caifa about today`s elections and what Americans might expect as results come in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARIN CAIFA, CNN REPORTER (voice-over):  President Joe Biden isn`t on the ballot, but for most Americans, it`s their first chance to weigh in on his 
 
 party and policies.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  This election isn`t a referendum, it`s a choice. It`s a choice between two fundamentally 
 
 different visions of America.
 
CAIFA:  Among states taking center stage in the battle for the U.S. Senate tight races in four that president Biden flipped in the 2020 presidential 
 
 election, Arizona, Wisconsin, Georgia and Pennsylvania were Biden and former President Barack Obama stumped Saturday.
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT:  Democracy itself is on the ballot. The stakes are high. 
 
CAIFA:  And former President Donald Trump also rallied.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT:  This election is your chance to make your voice heard.
 
CAIFA:  Underscoring how 2022 may foreshadow the 2024 presidential contest.
 
Polls indicate most voters are looking at the economy right now as they cast ballots. Democrats touted Friday`s October jobs report and 
 
 unemployment still near a half century low as assigned their economic policies are working, while Republicans point to the highest inflation in 
 
 40 years. 
 
SEN. RON JOHNSON (R-WI):  The inflation crushing our pocketbooks, can`t fill up our tank, can`t fill up our grocery cart.
 
CAIFA:  Democrats hope the Supreme Court`s decision to overturn Roe v. Wade in June will motivate voters, especially women, while Republicans have 
 
 accused Democrats of being weak on crime especially in major cities. 
 
Both parties eager to drive turnout in their favor.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Ten-second trivia:
 
Name the peninsula in Egypt located between the Mediterranean Sea and Red Sea.
 
Sinai, Iberian, Arabian or Yucatan?
 
Sinai peninsula is the answer here and at the southern tip is where you`ll find the Egyptian city of Sharm El-sheikh.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  This week and next in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, tens of thousands of world leaders, representatives, negotiators, businesses and citizens will 
 
 gather for the COP27 Conference. Twenty-seven because this is the 27th year that the global climate summit has been held.
 
The focus of these conferences is climate change. The U.N. says this was a fringe issue when the summits began, but it`s now a global priority though 
 
 different nations have different levels of commitment to it. Carbon dioxide emissions are front and center here. Most scientists say these emissions 
 
 are harming the global environment by causing earth`s average temperatures to rise a smaller group of scientists says that climate change happens 
 
 naturally and that the earth can absorb human carbon emissions.
 
But the goal of these U.N. summits is for member countries to lay out new plans to reduce their emissions of carbon dioxide.
 
Let`s take a look now at the history of these COP conferences as nations continue to debate the issues that relate to the health of the planet.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
REPORTER:  COP stands for Conference of the Parties. The gatherings are intense technical negotiations brokered by the U.N. Countries are meant to 
 
 work together to coordinate a global effort to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
 
But progress at successive COP summits has been limited.
 
RAUL ESTRADA-OYUELA, KYOTO COP3 CHAIRMAN:  This is a very long process. It will take decades.
 
PAULA DOBRIANSKY, HEAD OF U.S. DELEGATION, BALI, COP13:  We will go forward and join consensus in this today.
 
LEONARDO DICAPRIO, UN MESSENGER OF PEACE: Now must be our moment for action.
 
REPORTER:  The first climate COP summit took place in Berlin in 1995, and representatives from more than states or territories attended. Two years 
 
 later, progress. The parties at COP3 in Japan agreed to the Kyoto Protocol in which 37 industrialized states or territories were legally bound to 
 
 start reducing their emissions. 
 
But the biggest polluter at the time the United States refused to ratify the agreement because it didn`t oblige developing nations like China to cut 
 
 emissions. In the following years, climate change slipped on and off the global agenda. After 9/11, the world`s attention shifted to fighting 
 
 international terrorism. Climate issues took a back seat.
 
All the while, greenhouse gas emissions continue to soar and without the United States and China on board, the Kyoto protocol began to crumble, 
 
 successive climate summits produced few results. COP15 in Copenhagen in 2009 was highly anticipated, but fell short. 
 
BUYELWA SONJICA, SOUTH AFRICAN ENVIRONMENT MINISTER:  It`s not acceptable. It`s definitely not acceptable. It`s disappointing.
 
REPORTER:  Then at COP21 in Paris, there was a breakthrough.
 
In 2015, the Paris agreement was adopted by more than 190 parties, including the U.S. and China, and effectively replaced Kyoto. Its ambition 
 
 was to limit global warming to well below two, but preferably 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
 
But the watchdog Climate Action Tracker shows that all major economies are off track to meeting their obligations to contain temperature rise and as 
 
 governments lagged in fulfilling their pledges a new wave of youth-led environmental activism was born.
 
GRETA THUNBERG, CLIMATE ACTIVIST:  All what you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth. How dare you?
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  It is time to put Youngstown, Ohio, Detroit, Michigan, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, before Paris, France.
 
REPORTER:  Then, U.S. President Donald Trump withdrew the United States from the Paris agreement, only for his successor President Biden to bring 
 
 the U.S. back into it. 
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  This moment demands urgency. Good ideas and good intentions aren`t good enough.
 
REPORTER:  At COP26 in Glasgow, developed countries pledged $100 billion annually to support developing countries in reducing greenhouse gas 
 
 emissions and adapting their economies. 
 
But the conference also had its shortcomings. India successfully demanded that the final agreement would commit countries to phase down rather than 
 
 phase out coal.
 
JOURNALIST:  It`s according to science, sir. It`s according to science.
 
BHUPENDER YADAV, INDIAN ENVIRONMENT MINISTER:  No, not at all.
 
REPORTER:  Fossil fuels like coal, oil and gas emit heat trapping greenhouse gas emissions. And if we don`t cut those emissions dramatically, 
 
 scientists predict global temperatures could warm by three degrees by the end of the century.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Now for today`s 10 out of 10, we`re bringing you a tasty story that`s going to wake you up. People deep-fry chicken, they deep-fry 
 
 potatoes. I`ve even heard of deep fried Oreos. 
 
But coffee? How to even do that? James Hoffman, a coffee connoisseur and author, deep fried the coffee beans for 14-1/2 minutes. And he says it 
 
 created a soft and buttery cup of Joe rich but not greasy, I guess you could deep fry just about anything.
 
I think my weakness is French fries. I can eat them all day, every day. What`s your weakness? Like if you were a superhero, what would your 
 
 kryptonite be? Let me know at Coy Wire on Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok.
 
Shout out time now. Many High School in Many, Louisiana, we wish you and everyone watching around the world many blessings. 
 
My team and I are so grateful to spend part of our day with you.
 
I`m Coy. This is CNN 10.  
 
END