Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Biden, Xi meet Face-to-Face for 3 Plus Hours in High-Stakes Talks; Orphaned Boy who Endured Mariupol Siege finds New Family; State Media: Death Sentence Issued to Protester; Democrats Control Senate, House is still too Close to Call; Ronaldo: I Feel "Betrayed" by Manchester United; Artist Banksy Unveils Work in Ukrainian Town. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired November 14, 2022 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNNI HOST: This hour President Joe Biden's meeting with his Chinese counterpart, the first face to face since taking office, hoping to 
 
 think extremely tense relations. Hello, I'm Lynda Kinkade filling in for Becky Anderson. Welcome back to "Connect the World"!
 
Well, we begin with a high stakes meeting and its global impact. U.S. President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping meeting earlier today 
 
 in person for the first time since Mr. Biden took office. The U.S. President called the meeting open and candid as the leaders of the world's 
 
 largest economies discussed Ukraine and North Korea, along with trade, climate change human rights and much more in three hours of discussions.
 
One of the most important topics was Taiwan. President Xi stated that the self-governing Island is at the core of his nation's interests and a red 
 
 line that can't be crossed. President Biden said he doesn't see China invading Taiwan anytime soon.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: I absolutely believe there need not be a new Cold War. I've met many times with Xi Jinping. And 
 
 we were candid and clear with one another across the board. And I do not think there's any imminent attempt on the part of China to invade Taiwan. 
 
 And I made it clear that our policy in Taiwan has not changed at all.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Certainly, a lot to break down. CNN White House Correspondent MJ Lee is in Bali. I'll be speaking to her in just a moment. But first, I want 
 
 to go to Selina Wang, who joins us from Beijing. Good to see you Selina. So many have said that tensions between the U.S. and China are at their worst 
 
 in decades but we did hear from both leaders and intention to address and improve relations. Where do the two countries see eye to eye?
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, look, walking into this Lynda, the expectations were extremely low. It was simply just to build a floor on the 
 
 relationship to prevent it from spiraling into real conflict. This turned out better than expectations. They agreed on more than one point.
 
But the key takeaway from this meeting, Lynda, is that they both want to stop this relationship from getting worse. In the opening statements they 
 
 both address the idea that they've got a responsibility to the international community to stabilize this relationship for the better of 
 
 the world for the better of global peace.
 
So they decided to restore communications at the high level and at the working level and signaled a restart in communications around climate 
 
 changes, around global food and health security issues. So that is a major improvement because talks between these two nations had reached a new low 
 
 after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's visit to Taiwan back in August.
 
In retaliation to her visit to the island, China cut off a whole range of communications with the United States. So it's a big deal that they're 
 
 agreeing to restart communications on so many areas and the White House readout afterwards, the White House had actually said that they want to 
 
 send Secretary of State Antony Blinken to Beijing at some point in the near future.
 
But underlying all of the handshakes and smiles that we saw at this in person meeting, there are still major fundamental differences between these 
 
 two countries. There are still a lot of mutual distrust and hostility. Beijing views America increasingly as a hostile force that is trying to 
 
 contain and suppress its rise.
 
They point to the recent sweeping export restrictions from the Biden Administration that chokes off China's access to these critical advanced 
 
 semiconductor chips whereas Washington has recently labeled Beijing as America's most consequential geopolitical challenge.
 
Washington often painting China as a force that wants to supplant America's dominance in the world so these fundamental changes not going to be 
 
 resolved from one person to person meeting however, this is a start.
 
KINKADE: Certainly a step in the right direction, Selina. And I want to bring in MJ Lee, who's in Bali. MJ this meeting seemed to go longer than 
 
 expected over three hours they discussed Russia, Ukraine, trade Taiwan just to name a few.
 
MJ LEE, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: That's right. And President Biden, in a press conference after the summit said that the conversation between 
 
 himself and Xi had been open and candid and of course, they had so much to discuss, particularly given that this meeting came at a real low point in 
 
 U.S./Chinese relations.
 
And it was the first time that the two leaders were meeting in person since President Biden took office, but there really was no other topic that was 
 
 more highly anticipated than the issue of Taiwan because this is one of the major reasons that relations have deteriorated so much in recent months 
 
 particularly after U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi recently decided to visit the island coming after such objections from Beijing.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
LEE: And the President, more or less suggested that he was successful in taking down the temperature a little bit on this front. He said to 
 
 reporters that he doesn't think that there is a need for a new Cold War. He said that he also doesn't think that there is an imminent threat coming 
 
 from Beijing to invade Taiwan. And he also emphasized that the U.S.'s policy on Taiwan remains the same that it continues to support the One 
 
 China policy.
 
KINKADE: And in terms of Taiwan, it doesn't seem that either side is shifting much. Certainly, as you point out to one major issue up for 
 
 discussion. In terms of Selina, if I go to you, China's read out on the discussion about Taiwan, given that U.S. President says that the U.S. 
 
 opposes any change to the status quo? What is China's take on that?
 
WANG: Yes, Lynda, well, going into this meeting, we didn't expect either side to relent at all on this issue. It's impossible to overstate just how 
 
 core the Taiwan issue is to the very legitimacy and DNA of the Communist Party?
 
Now in the readout, I just want to show you what Xi Jinping has said according to the Chinese side, "The Taiwan question is at the very core of 
 
 China's core interests, the bedrock of the political foundation of U.S./China relations, and the first red line that must not be crossed and 
 
 China/U.S. relations, resolving the Taiwan question is a matter for the Chinese and China's internal affairs".
 
Now we know that tensions were ratcheting rapidly following U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's visit to Taiwan we saw China increase the military 
 
 drills even encircling the island in a practice blockade - up the military pressure. We did not expect this meeting to resolve this fundamental 
 
 difference on Taiwan.
 
However, it is simmering it is lowering those tensions because they've now agreed to restart all of these communications. Global peace really hinges 
 
 on these two leaders finding the time finding open lines to talk to each other. That is what reduces the risk of miscalculation that could spiral 
 
 into conflict. And Taiwan is the biggest flashpoint this is the area where the risk of that miscalculation is most likely Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yes, communication key. Selina Wang for us in Beijing and MJ Lee in Bali thanks to you both! Welcomed with chants and cheers, Ukrainian 
 
 President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made an unannounced visit to the City of Kherson earlier on the days after it was liberated by Ukrainian troops.
 
The loss of Kherson is a major setback for Moscow in its illegal war against Ukraine. The people of the region have suffered. Mr. Zelenskyy says 
 
 there's evidence in more than 400 war crimes and liberated Kherson. Russian forces have also destroyed critical infrastructure and littered the area 
 
 with mines. Undaunted Mr. Zelenskyy says in his words, we are going forward.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: We respect the law and respect sovereignty all the countries but now we are speaking about our country 
 
 that's why we are fighting against Russian aggression.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Our Nic Robertson is in Kherson where he's been speaking to residents, take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice over): The joys of Kherson's liberation keep on giving. How are you she says, I survived 
 
 her friend replies, but the Russians kicked my door in and stole everything. This city once home to more than a quarter million people is 
 
 still celebrating its freedom.
 
But beginning to count the cost of the 8-month brutal occupation they endured. The city's phone and internet connection cut, residents crowding 
 
 around soldier's communications in desperate hope of contacting loved ones. On their way out, the Russians crippled almost every vital service, 
 
 electricity off and water too.
 
This pump close to the riverbank giving water to polluted to drink. The water stopped when the power went off, he says. This is the fourth day 
 
 without water. But what can we do? We need to survive somehow. The Russians even felled the city's main TV transmitter.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): They blew it up just before leaving a final act of punishment for a population that until days earlier they said was part of 
 
 Russia and would be forever.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): That same message Kherson and Russia together forever plastered on hundreds of billboards around the city is already 
 
 being torn down why Platton says because 8 months of occupation is not very nice. I didn't feel very good living in fear that any moment a car could 
 
 pull over near you and bring you to a very unpleasant place.
 
Oleksandr (ph) was unlucky enough to be taken to one of those unpleasant places and shows us around the jail he was in, says the Russians beat him 
 
 daily. They abused everyone kept us hungry used us as free labor to repair their military vehicles, he says. They were beating us whenever they 
 
 wanted.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): This is where they say Russians kill people for simply shouting out slavery Ukraine, Glory to Ukraine or having tattoos 
 
 saying the same thing. And over here in this room, this is where they used to torture people.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): The fire Oleksandr says started by the Russians as they left to cover up their crimes. But it is across the road in Katerina's 
 
 Church, Russia's oddest brutality was perpetrated. The Grave of Grigory Potemkin fabled in history for building fake villages was looted days 
 
 before the Russians left. Father Vitaly (ph) takes us into the gloomy crypt, shows us where Potemkin's coffin was stolen from.
 
He lay here for 240 years through many wars, he says. We honored him as a Founder of Kherson, and they took him without permission. Repairs of souls 
 
 and city have only just begun.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: CNN's Nic Robertson joins us now from Kherson. Good to have you with us Nic! Certainly those images at the start of your report, those are 
 
 unions giving me chills. But despite those celebrations, these people really are in need of just the basic the bare essentials.
 
ROBERTSON: And we route in a market today a street market where prices are going up. People there told us, you know, they really want the help from 
 
 the government that President Zelenskyy said today had come to give their primary foremost requests is to get the electricity back up and running and 
 
 after that the water as well.
 
This is a terribly difficult circumstance, we think of Ukraine as the, you know, as a country where the front line has bought shelling and hardship to 
 
 people in those towns that have been regularly shelled. It was a different kind of hardship here in Kherson, but the city was functioning albeit with 
 
 the uncertainty and the terror of having Russian troops in control.
 
There was food more or less, there was water more or less, and there was electricity, more or less, all of that stopped five days ago. And it is a 
 
 very cold place right now. Winter is coming and this is a desperate situation for people.
 
But the government stepping up today, they put up a temporary cellphone tower in the center of the city giving some people connectivity back to 
 
 friends and relatives and the rest of the country. They also - we also saw the first aid truck to arrive in a city bringing bread bringing water, 
 
 bringing candles that have been organized by a religious organization to help the people here.
 
But it's a drop in the bucket for what's going to be required? The real thing is the electricity and as we've seen across the rest of the country, 
 
 the damage perpetrated by the Russians there has been significant enough to keep the power off line for quite a while.
 
KINKADE: Yes, 400 war crimes, according to the Ukrainian President under investigation now in that city. Nic Robertson, good to have you there and 
 
 our CNN team. Thanks so much. The streets of Kherson have been filled with jubilant residents wrapped in Ukrainian flags as you have seen in Nic's 
 
 reporting and you can see more of these extraordinary scenes just log into cnn.com we can find it on your CNN app.
 
Well, throughout the world Moscow's attacks have shattered the lives of ordinary Ukrainians, among them a six year old boy in Mariupol, who lost 
 
 both his parents to shelling the first week of the invasion, but he eventually found a new home in Kyiv with a loving couple who plan to adopt 
 
 him. CNN's Salma Abdelaziz has their story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SALMA ABDELZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Like any six year old child --. He wants constant attention, entertainment, and craves affection from 
 
 the two people who care for him most. Now we have that loves they tell me that love that makes you a family. We did not have this baby but our love 
 
 is real.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice over): Maria and Vladimir are - legal guardians. They've been a little family for more than six months, and the couple plan to 
 
 formally adopt him and become parents to a child orphaned by this war.
 
The pair was forced to flee their home in the East for Kyiv because of shelling, but refuse to give up on their dream of starting a family. This 
 
 was such a difficult decision to adopt during a war. Did you hesitate did you think maybe this is not the right time?
 
We had been planning to adopt for many years he says the war pushed us to make it happen sooner. Now we wonder why we ever waited. His mom was killed 
 
 in Mariupol, his birthplace she left home to find food and was struck down by shelling in the first week of war.
 
Unaware of his wife's fate - father went looking for her the next day, only to lose his life too. Ilya was left with neighbors where he sheltered with 
 
 strangers for weeks in a cold dark basement. When they ran out of food Ilya says he started to eat his toys.
 
The new found parents are trying to give - sense of security but when we visit their home in Kyiv we see why that's a challenge? Blackouts caused by 
 
 Russia strikes on the power grid leave the family without electricity for hours.
 
Sometimes he gets scared she says he is hysterical and he'll tell me it's like being back in Mariupol in the basement in the darkness. During the 
 
 outages the young family tried to make things normal playing games watching movies anything to eat Ilyas worried mind.
 
ABDELAZIZ (on camera): Do you get afraid in the dark Ilya?
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice over): Not anymore he says I know the lights will come back on and they do. During our interview electricity is restored and Ilya 
 
 runs to switch on the light ready to play again. But first he wants to put on his Spider Man costume. He says it makes him feel strong and brave Salma 
 
 Abdelaziz, CNN, Kyiv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Still ahead, a suspect in custody after a deadly explosion in Istanbul. We'll tell you who police say were behind the blast? Plus an 
 
 Iranian court convicts the protests in the country's latest wave of unrest and the punishment is death.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Well, Turkey says a Syrian national trained by Kurdish separatist groups is behind a deadly blast in Istanbul. At least six people were 
 
 killed dozens injured in the explosion Sunday. It sends shoppers and tourists fleeing a busy street in the heart of Turkey's largest city. The 
 
 armed wing of the Kurdish Workers Party is denying any involvement.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
KINKADE: The suspect is in custody. Police say she planted a bomb at the scene and left in a taxi. Authorities also detained several others in what 
 
 they call a terrorist attack.
 
Nada Bashir is monitoring the story from London and joins us now live. Good to have you with us Nada. So this was an attack in a very busy part of the 
 
 city. Explain to us what we now know about the suspect.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Yes, absolutely. Lynda, for anybody that's been to Istanbul this pedestrianized High Street is typically rammed throughout 
 
 the day popular amongst locals and tourists. And this has really come as a huge shock to many in Istanbul despite the fact that Turkey is of course no 
 
 stranger to such attacks.
 
We have seen video today of many gathering at the scene to leave flowers and to pay their respects for those who lost their lives or were injured in 
 
 the incident. But we are of course also learning more details around the primary suspect behind this attack as identified by the Turkish 
 
 authorities.
 
We've seen now video being released by the Turkish authorities of what appears to have been a raid at an apartment in western Istanbul showing the 
 
 authorities they're arresting a Syria national a woman believed to be behind this attack at gunpoint following this incident.
 
They say they tracked her down after analyzing CCTV footage from across the city including one video which appears to show this individual according to 
 
 the authorities leaving a bag in the center of this busy High Street shortly after she leaves this bag the explosion takes place. So there is of 
 
 course a void.
 
There are questions around the motive behind this incident. The Turkish authorities have said that they believe this was a terrorist incident. They 
 
 have identified her as a Syrian national and say that she had links connections and was trained by Kurdish separatist groups, namely the 
 
 Kurdistan Workers Party or the PKK, which is designated by Turkey, the United States and the European Union as a terrorist organization.
 
We have heard condemnation from Turkey's international partners including the United States, the White House Press Secretary saying that the United 
 
 States and the Biden Administration stands shoulder to shoulder with Turkey in its fight against terrorism.
 
But this hasn't been received as well as perhaps the U.S. might have anticipated by the Turkish authorities. Turkey's interior minister speaking 
 
 to members of the press and calling out the U.S. for its ally-ship with Kurdish separatist groups in northern Syria, take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SULEYMAN SOYLU, TURKISH INTERIOR MINISTER: We reject the condolences of the U.S. Embassy, we refuse it. Our alliances with a country whose senate since 
 
 funds to this mentality that provides funds for Kobani and other terror areas and aims to disrupt the peace in Turkey should be questioned. That 
 
 much is clear.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR: Now Lynda, the PKK's armed wing has issued a statement rejecting any responsibility for this attack. It's really a bit of a statement 
 
 released from PKK media today. So we act based on a perspective that seeks to create a common democratic, free and equal future with the society of 
 
 Turkey.
 
From this standpoint, us targeting the civilian population in any way is definitely out of the question. Turkish authorities have an interior 
 
 minister has said that Turkey will respond firmly in the future once responsibility for this attack is understood and confirmed.
 
There is of course concern around the wider context here, Turkey and Kurdish separatist groups have been in conflict for decades now a conflict 
 
 that has claimed tens of thousands of lives. And of course, we have seen Turkey launching its own incursion in the past in northern Syria, in its 
 
 attempt to target what it has described as terrorist groups linked as Kurdish separatist movements in the region.
 
President Erdogan for his part has most recently hinted at the possibility of another Turkish incursion in northern Syria. So this could certainly 
 
 play into that ongoing conflict, Lynda?
 
KINKADE: Yes, certainly good. I will leave it there for now. Nada Bashir in London, thank you. Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps targeted 
 
 Kurdish headquarters in northern Iraq killing at least two people. State aligned media reports that Iran use drones and rockets to hit two 
 
 locations.
 
Security forces have cracked down on Kurdish cities following the death of Kurdish Iranian Mahsa Amini in September and her death in custody of Iran's 
 
 morality police sparked anti-government protests across Iran.
 
A court just issued the first known death sentence in connection with the protests. Five others were sentenced to five to 10 years in prison. Melissa 
 
 Bell joins us now from Paris with more on all of this. So this is the first death sentence handed to a protester in the two months of protests we've 
 
 seen, what can you tell us about this case?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is of extreme concern. When you consider of course Lynda, the many thousands of protesters that have been 
 
 taken into custody, we don't know the name of the protester to whom this sentence has been handed as you say, the first death sentence, in these 
 
 nearly two months of fairly continuous protests.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
BELL: The fear is that it could be one of many more to come. This is something new. And Human Rights Council has been warning about urging the 
 
 authorities in Iran, not to engage in this next step of these protests, which is, of course, beyond the arbitrary arrest they're trying and the 
 
 sentencing to execution, the first of which we have heard at this stage. We don't have the name of that protester. But there are several of the 
 
 protesters, according to the court documents in the last few weeks, who are along according to that charge, could be amongst those at facing that test 
 
 penalty.
 
But it is, of course, for the families of all of those currently in detention that this news will be of particular concern. Of course, even as 
 
 those protests have continued those the latest images that we have here at CNN from Friday, from the southeast of the country, showing once again, 
 
 those chants on the street Death to the Dictator, Death to Harmony, the protests continue, of course, across the country, even despite this 
 
 repression.
 
But that the definite fear of so many watching Iran, that this could be the next logical step. From the point of view of Iranian authorities or hence, 
 
 this round of sanctions that we've seen imposed by the European Union in coordination with United Kingdom, today an extra round of sanctions 
 
 targeting Lynda, not just those who were responsible, say the European Union, the United Kingdom for the initial arrest and murder of Mahsa Amini, 
 
 but for the repression and all of that we've seen over the course of the last few weeks, including attempts to suppress the internet and sharing on 
 
 social media, all of those elements that have encouraged the protests as well.
 
In the words of the British Foreign Secretary, this is about reminding Iranian authorities that it is time to stop blaming the rest of the world 
 
 and start listening to the voices there in people, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yes, exactly. And it is interesting to point out that despite the hundreds of people killed during the last two months of protests, despite 
 
 the arrests and even the harsh sentences, that the regime has been unable to squash the spirit of this movement.
 
BELL: That is, of course, partly Lynda, because of these very brave protests we've been seeing from inside the country as well shared as best 
 
 they can be on social media people using VPNs to get around these internet bans.
 
Protests by sports personalities, television stars, actors, who've been sharing their protests, whether they've been abroad or even more bravely 
 
 inside Tehran is allowing their hijabs for full competing indeed without them abroad. These acts of defiance are coming as bravely as they do amidst 
 
 all this repression, nearly two months into these protests, of course, adding to that sense within the country that these protests need to 
 
 continue.
 
And again, the regime is keeping a very close eye on what's being said outside the country about these protests. You saw the criticism that was 
 
 made of Emmanuel Macron, who praised what he described as the revolution on Friday by a spokesman for the Iranian foreign ministry on Sunday, a 
 
 reminder that they're keeping a close eye on what's being said outside about the very repression that they're carrying on inside, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Melissa Bell for us in Paris thanks so much for that reporting. Well still to come on "Connect the World" almost a week since Election Day 
 
 and votes are still being counted in the United States. We'll have the latest on the uncalled races. And CNN Political Senior Reporter Stephen 
 
 Collinson joins me to talk about this election and how it impacts Donald Trump's hold on the Republican Party.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
KINKADE: We have some news just into CNN. Police in the U.S. state of Virginia have arrested a man suspected of killing three people in the 
 
 University of Virginia campus. The three victims were on the school's football team and that suspect is a former football player. Two other 
 
 people were wounded in that shooting.
 
The campus was locked down overnight while police searched for the suspected gun man. Well, it's been almost one week since the U.S. midterm 
 
 elections and Republicans appear to be inching closer to controlling the U.S. House of Representatives.
 
CNN projects that the Republicans have won 212 seats and just needed six more to get the house, 19 races remain uncalled mostly in western states 
 
 and it could take weeks to know all the results. Democrats celebrated over the weekend when Catherine Cortez Masto was declared the winner in the 
 
 divider senate race, giving them control of the senate.
 
There is still one senate seat still undecided, the race in Georgia between Raphael Warnock and Herschel Warnock - Herschel Walker, rather will head to 
 
 a run-off in early December. Our Dianne Gallagher is in Georgia tracking that runoff, Diane, good to see you. So just how important is this run-off?
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: You know, Lynda, this is important not just for 2022, but also looking ahead for 2024 Democrats, 
 
 especially making sure that they work to try and keep enthusiasm with voters here in Georgia up because many people just like you said heard that 
 
 Democrats are maintaining control of the senate.
 
Once CNN projected that Catherine Cortez Masto would keep her seat there in Nevada, they don't want the voters to think that that means that the seat 
 
 doesn't matter anymore. Democrats have a very difficult road ahead in 2024, with the seats that come up in states that have trended more towards 
 
 Republicans in the past year, including Montana, Ohio, West Virginia.
 
And so essentially, they want to be able to net as many seats as they can this time around to brace for any kind of issues. They may have an election 
 
 in 2024. Meanwhile, Republicans are essentially looking to do the same. They also don't want to deal with the fact that they potentially may have 
 
 less clout than they currently have now with that evenly split 50,50 senate, with Vice President Kamala Harris being that deciding vote to break 
 
 a tie.
 
They've relied on some of those more conservative Republicans like Senator Joe Manchin or Senator Kyrsten Sinema to be able to sort of lobby against 
 
 their own party in some ways to bring some of those bills away from more progressive matters.
 
If Senator Raphael Warnock is able to pull out this run-off election Lynda, they may not have to be beholden to Manchin or Sinema so much to Democrats 
 
 and the Senate. So there is that aspect. There was an education campaign going as well, though, because of course, even though they voted here in 
 
 Georgia last year in a run-off election, so much has changed because of this controversial new election law here in the state of Georgia, that 
 
 voters are up against a very different set of rules this time. And for both Republicans and Democrats it's important to make sure those voters 
 
 understand that this time around.
 
KINKADE: All right, Dianne Gallagher for us in Atlanta, Georgia and that run- off of course will take place early December. Thanks so much. Well, 
 
 for more analysis on this, I want to bring in CNN Senior Political Reporter Stephen Collinson. Good to have you with us again, Steven.
 
So we are still waiting on the house. But as CNN has predicted that the Democrats will take the senate. This is far from the red wave that other 
 
 Republicans were hoping for. Democrats see this as a win, Biden touting the strength of the democracy.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER: Right, I think you can argue that President Biden has defied the historical forces that suggest 
 
 that first term presidents always get a drubbing in midterm elections. In fact, he's probably the most successful first term president in the midterm 
 
 elections since George W. Bush, it's massive for the Democrats that they're keeping control of the senate.
 
This not only means you know that they still have a hold on power in, you know, half of congress. It means that all the investigations and the 
 
 subpoenas that Republicans and the Senate were planning to send to the White House to investigate Joe Biden won't be happening, even though with 
 
 Republicans set to get the house, they'll still have that to deal with the White House in the coming two years.
 
But it really is a big achievement for Democrats. You know, what it's also done is to set off recriminations inside the Republican Party, not just 
 
 over their failure to win the two chambers of congress that they expected to do last week, but also about the position in the party of ex-President 
 
 Donald Trump, who expect to launch his 2024 campaign on Tuesday, even though he's being blamed by many people inside and outside the Republican 
 
 Party for contributing to this lack of a red wave that you were talking about.
 
KINKADE: And I want to ask you more about that Donald Trump, as you mentioned, is expected to announce that he'll run for President in 2024 
 
 tomorrow. How will that be received, given his candidates, the ones he backed in the midterms did not do well?
 
COLLINSON: You can make an argument that after he won in 2016, Trump hasn't won another election. In fact, he contributed to Republicans losing the 
 
 opportunity for power in either one or the other chambers of congress in 2018, in the midterms in 2020, when he lost the presidential election and 
 
 now again, in 2022.
 
You know, you can sit there and make a logical argument that Trumpism and the particular fixation of the former president on the 2020 election, 
 
 really contributed to the defeat of many of the candidates in his own image that were pushing election, fraud falsehoods this time around and that it 
 
 would be the same in 2024. If he was running for another term, if he won the Republican nomination, and if he was still pursuing this idea that he 
 
 was forced out of power unfairly, two years ago. The problem with that is, you know, Trump is not a logical choice for a lot of Republican voters.
 
He's an emotional one; he has a real bond with the grassroots of the party that will decide who the Republican nominee is in 2024. It may need an 
 
 alternative candidate, someone like Ron DeSantis, the Governor of Florida to actively try to push Trump out of the nomination race and that is 
 
 something that would not just be a high risk to him, it would really threaten to pull the party apart.
 
So it doesn't look like Trump is going to conclude that he was at fault and he should go away. Someone may have to make it happen. And that's very 
 
 problematic, I think inside the Republican Party.
 
KINKADE: As he said in a recent interview, if his candidates do well, he should take credit. If they don't do well, he should not be blamed. But I 
 
 do have to ask you more about Ron DeSantis, because he did do very well in the midterm elections. And I want to bring up some of the Murdoch press 
 
 some of the - papers Rupert Murdoch, of course, the Chairman of Fox, and also the owner of News Corp has been painting Ron DeSantis as the future of 
 
 the Republican Party. How does that bode for Trump?
 
COLLINSON: Well, the Murdoch press has obviously been instrumental, especially Fox News with Trump's hold on Republican voters. And for him for 
 
 them, he has, of course, been a good business proposition. And as you know, Murdoch, not just in the United States, but around the world has a habit of 
 
 picking political winners ahead of time and using the power of the press and of the news organizations that he owns.
 
You know, this is clearly great for Ron DeSantis and has really angered Trump. You know, we've been at a point before when Trump has been in crisis 
 
 after losing the 2020 election after the Capitol Insurrection in 2021. And the truism of the Republican Party that he's, you know, Teflon Trump, that 
 
 nothing hurts him has always been true.
 
Now, at least there is a potential alternative for Republican voters, somebody who has built a majority in their state that could have the 
 
 potential to grow as a national candidate. And there hasn't really been that strong alternative before. But I still think it's a little early to 
 
 decide, you know, that the rise of DeSantis his popularity with a moderate press and everywhere else is going to push Trump out of the race. He's 
 
 still very strong with Republican base voters.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
COLLINSON: We're just going to have to see in the next few months, I think after he makes this announcement, how strong he is going forward.
 
KINKADE: And there have been some Republicans reportedly urging Trump to delay this announcement after the Georgia run-off in December 6. What's the 
 
 chance that will happen slim to none?
 
COLLINSON: It looks like getting from what's coming out of Trump's camp, the reason they wanted delayed is because many Republican observers believe 
 
 that Trump cost them the senate two years ago, by interfering in the run- off. There were two senate races that Democrats won both in Georgia and that gave them control of the senate.
 
The candidate for the Republicans in Georgia, Herschel Walker is basically a creation of Donald Trump. And if Trump were to go down there and insert 
 
 himself in the race again, you can see that many of the Democratic voters that just came out to vote for the Democrat candidate, Raphael Warnock will 
 
 come out again.
 
So I think a lot of Republicans really hope that Trump keeps out of the race and that the Republican candidate Walker can ally himself with a very 
 
 popular Governor of Georgia, the Republican Brian Kemp, who won re-election very easily.
 
KINKADE: Stephen Collinson, it has been a hot minute since we've spoken but good to see you again. Great, as always, thanks so much. Well still to come 
 
 trouble in paradise an explosive interview for Manchester United star player ahead of the world has caused chaos in the English football clubs 
 
 camp. We'll have that story coming up also.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: If you were unhappy in the workplace, how would you air your grievances? A one on one with your manager and e-mail to human resources 
 
 are perhaps well, Manchester United's Cristiano Ronaldo has gone down a more public route.
 
In an exclusive interview with Piers Morgan for top TV airing Wednesday, the Portuguese footballer said he feels betrayed by his club. Take a 
 
 listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PIERS MORGAN, CNN REPORTER: I tried to force you out.
 
CRISTIANO RONALDO, MANCHESTER UNITED FORWARD: Yes, not only the coach but the other two or three guys there around the club.
 
MORGAN: At the senior executive level?
 
RONALDO: Yes, that I felt betrayed.
 
MORGAN: And you think they're trying to get rid of it?
 
RONALDO: Honestly I shouldn't say that I don't know, but listen I don't care I'm always people should listen to.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
RONALDO: Yes, I feel betrayed and I felt that some people that don't want me here not only this year, but last year too.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: The club has responded in the last few hours say it will consider its response once the full facts have been established. Ronaldo's rant 
 
 didn't stop at Manchester United. He also lashed out at a former teammate, Wayne Rooney. The 37 year old suggested that Rooney was jealous that he 
 
 looks better than him. And he's still playing at a high level while Rooney is retired.
 
That was after the ex-England captain was critical of Ronaldo's behavior this season. Well, my colleague Becky Anderson sat down with Rooney in 
 
 Dubai recently and got his thoughts on Manchester United season. Ronaldo's antics and what he would do if you were coach, take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD (voice over): Wayne Rooney is a household name, one of the best football players of his generation. He did 
 
 it all in a beautiful game from playing in World Cups to Champions League finals, ultimately becoming England and Manchester United's all-time top 
 
 goal scorer, he's in Dubai ahead of the globe soccer awards.
 
Now in its 13th edition, the ceremony this year will be acknowledging the careers of some past icons of the sport. Rooney is of course nominated his 
 
 20 year roller coaster ride at the top, undoubtedly something special to witness. Let's talk about the career. Take me back. What are you most proud 
 
 of?
 
WAYNE ROONEY, FORMER ENGLAND &amp; MANCHESTER UNITED FOOTBALLER: As it's so many different things which you can look at, whether that's winning Premier 
 
 League titles, Champions League gold records, the moments you have with your team when you win a trophy and you lift that trophy and the 
 
 celebrations you have initially after that, that game.
 
And that's what your works well for. A real problem for me was when we won the FA Cup and lost a few finals. And then I was captain obviously, it was 
 
 me and my --for the last two players from our time early in. Michael was vice captain. So we lifted the trophy together and the two of us.
 
But then after the game, the commercial team wanted to take the trophy. There's two different parties one of the players and families wants the 
 
 commercial teams, sponsors so they want to take the trophies, so there's no house left to take it so I had the trophy all night, took it back to bed. 
 
 So then me two hours boys are in bed, so then to slept with the FA Cup in between.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Now 37, Rooney is turned his attention to coaching. He relocated to Washington to coach DC United and before. That had a 
 
 tumultuous rain at Darby County in England. While there debt spirals and the club failed to pay players deducted points for financial mismanagement, 
 
 Derby are eventually relegated.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): What tough was that time?
 
ROONEY: Yes, it was very difficult in short, and I'm proud of what we achieved and as you said, be relegated but without the deductions we would 
 
 have stayed in the division and I give them players so much praise because I think it was 21 debut from the academy.
 
And we gave him just players who maybe didn't even have a career in football, which now have the EFL stopped us from doing various things. We 
 
 cut down players to play for the academy, but not for the first team. There were so many difficulties in what we're facing in obstacles just to try and 
 
 get over.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): You were part of what is known as the golden generation with Frank Lampard, Steven Gerrard, those two are managing now 
 
 as you are. Frank Lampard, managing editor in Euro club, Steven Gerrard was managing Aston Villa, how tough is it as one of the youngster particularly 
 
 one of that golden generation English players who did so well on the pitch to get in there and become successful as a coach?
 
ROONEY: You need to go through a process in and of course, myself, Steve and Frank have played the top level. And you almost have to go back to the 
 
 beginning and back to basics when you go with them, your culture and routing, knock on all of a sudden, could you play the top one and go in and 
 
 be a great manager without putting the work in?
 
ANDERSON (on camera): If there is that one job that you want, that you aspire to have your football what would it be?
 
ROONEY: It's a tough one because there's two, so now it's obviously no match tonight. This is the two clubs very close to me hard so, to manage 
 
 one of them to him will be--
 
ANDERSON (on camera): To reach our friend back.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
ROONEY: I think fact - I think he knows the pressures all himself. But I think he's doing a good job, he's brought a bit of stability back to the 
 
 club which was needed.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): While it's been a bumpy start to life in management, Rooney has no shortage of mentors to draw knowledge from. But there is one 
 
 man who Rooney will turn to at any time.
 
ROONEY: Best advice I got from Alex Ferguson is to work hard every day and that's the best that's always stuck with me, it's the best advice thing 
 
 I've been getting. Because from a football point of view coaching point of view, of course you're going to make mistakes, you're going to get things 
 
 wrong, but there's no excuse for at least to not work, so that's always stuck with me.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): What was the gaffer like to play for?
 
ROONEY: So he was brilliant, he was actually quite laid back. Then if you understand you read all different stories like off the outside of the game, 
 
 he was really laid back and you could joke around him and he might banter with him and stuff.
 
But then obviously when match day comes that's when you can see get serious and yes, - for the players. You have to beat in disagreements and I think 
 
 that's good. I encourage that now with my players to have debate and speak up because normally when you're debating you get an answer, you come to a 
 
 conclusion, whether it's the right one or wrong one, you know, we got to a conclusion on it.
 
So what not he was great to play for is the reason I signed much nicer to play for him, so I really enjoyed the time on them.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): And it's the reason Cristiano Ronaldo says he went back. What do you think is going on there at present?
 
ROONEY: I think it's Cristiano was you know there's a messy probably the best to maybe in the history of the game and in the Colts, the records 
 
 they've been breaking is incredible. And naturally that's kind of dropped off at some point and as you see probably for the two of them, it has done 
 
 nothing.
 
All he has to do is just keep working out and waiting for his opportunity to come in I'm sure when - like he deserved it and you'll take it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, still ahead out amongst the rubble, we'll show you how world renowned artist Banksy's creations in Ukraine, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Well as Russia's war in Ukraine continues, the street artist known as Banksy appears to be sending a message to the world that the Ukrainian 
 
 spirit is stronger than any of Vladimir Putin's explosives. CNN's Michael Holmes has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The bombed out buildings of Ukraine that latest canvass for street artist Banksy, murals in the secret 
 
 of artists signature style have been spotted recently in Kyiv and nearby towns.
 
This one is in Borodianka, which was besieged by the Russians in the early weeks of the invasion, until Ukrainian forces retook the town in April. 
 
 Banksy is confirming his handiwork by posting pictures of it on his verified Instagram account.
 
The murals during a steady stream of visitors many with their own interpretations of the hard work this man says he thinks the gymnast 
 
 balancing on a pile of rubble is Ukraine.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
HOLMES (voice over): He says it's a symbol that we are unbreakable and our country is unbreakable. And despite the fact that it's destroyed, we will 
 
 rebuild everything. There is a trail of murals throughout the area, though these haven't been officially claimed by Banksy, like the scene of a child 
 
 flipping a man in a judo uniform, who some say looks like Russian President Vladimir Putin.
 
Another mural in Irpin shows the gymnasts performing a ribbon routine despite wearing a neck brace. Other scenes of not so ordinary life painted 
 
 on buildings that seem unfit to live in, in towns also destroyed by the Russians.
 
Possible calling cards from the anonymous artists whose trip to Ukraine might have been secret, but his message in this war zone is clear. Michael 
 
 Holmes, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, thanks so much for joining us. I'm Lynda Kinkade that was "Connect the World". "One World" with my colleague and friend Zain Asher 
 
 continues after a short break. Stay with us. You're watching CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
END