Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Consumer Confidence Fell In October As Inflation Takes A Toll; JPMorgan CEO: Geopolitical Issues Are More Worrying Than Recession; Gunman Left Note Describing His Life As "Perfect Storm For A Mass Shooter"; Teacher & Student Killed, Seven Injured In St. Louis School Shooting; Adidas Ends Partnership With Kanye West After Anti-Semitic Comments. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired October 25, 2022 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:34:13]
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: New data shows consumers remain anxious about the economy. Consumer confidence fell in October for the first time in three months. The index is now down to 102.5 from a high of 132 in October of 2020. 
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN HOST: A lot of this is being driven by high borrowing costs and soaring inflation. 
 
A top banker's fear that the combination could tip the U.S. into a recession. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID SOLOMON, CEO, GOLDMAN SACHS: When you find yourself in an economic scenario like this where inflation is embedded, it's very hard to get out of it without a real economic slowdown. 
 
So I, too, am in the camp that we likely, likely have a recession in the U.S., going to have, I think, most likely a recession, might be in a recession in Europe. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: CNN's business editor-at-large, Richard Quest, joins us now. He's at the Future Investment Initiative Conference in Saudi Arabia. A seat at the table.
 <br>[14:35:06]
 
You've been talking to the top financial leaders. What are their predictions for the economy, Richard? 
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN BUSINESS EDITOR-AT-LARGE: Their predictions are a recession. That's the bad news. 
 
The good news is that they think it will be mild and not severe. But it will be widespread. And it will probably be global in nature. So that's the economics, if you will, of how things are going. 
 
There's a million and one reasons that you and I have talked about in the past for why we are where we are. 
 
What is interesting is that they all feel it's manageable. That this is not the greatest issue affecting us at the moment. 
 
Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase, put it this way. He says yes, recessions we can do it. There are other things I'm truly worried about. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMIE DIMON, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE: I think the most important thing is the geopolitics, what's going on in Russia, Ukraine, America-China, you know, the relationships of the Western world. That would have me far more concerned than whether it's a mild or slightly more severe recession. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
QUEST: Now, the real problem with that is there's almost nothing they can do about it. This is government to government. This is problems of war, Russia-Ukraine, trade policy, U.S.-China, worsening with Xi now getting a third term. 
 
So the economic environment is poor. The geopolitical situation is fragile. 
 
GOLODRYGA: And judging by historical events, typically, a war or geopolitical instability many times does lead to a recession. 
 
It's interesting to hear that they're expecting a deeper recession in Europe than here in the United States. 
 
Richard Quest, fascinating. Thank you so much. 
 
BLACKWELL: Well, they were supposed to be planning her 16th birthday. But now a family is grieving. They're planning that girl's funeral after a shooting at a high school in St. Louis. We'll have more on the victims and the latest on the investigation, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:41:46]
 
BLACKWELL: We're learning new details about Monday's fatal shooting at a high school in St. Louis. Police say the shooter was 19. He graduated from the school last year. 
 
He was armed with an A.R.-15-style rifle and had more than 600 rounds of ammunition when he walked into the Central Visual and Performing Arts High School. 
 
GOLODRYGA: He killed a teacher and a student before police killed him. 
 
Police say the shooter left a handwritten note in his car. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL SACK, COMMISSIONER, ST. LOUIS POLICE DEPARTMENT: "I don't have any friends. I don't have any family. I've never had a girlfriend. I've never had a social life. I've been an isolated loner my entire life. This was the perfect storm for a mass shooter," end quote. 
 
So, in reading this, we can see, you know, some of what's going on inside his mind. He feels isolated. He feels alone. Quite possibly, angry and resentful of others who have what appeared to him to be healthy relationships. And so a desire to lash out. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: CNN's Adrienne Broaddus is in St. Louis for us. 
 
So, Adrienne, so disturbing what we just heard there. But we're also learning more about the victims and the police response. What more can you tell us? 
 
ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, I can tell you two people were killed here at this high school, including a teen, Alexandria Bell. Her friends and family say, had she survived, she would have celebrated her 16th birthday next month. 
 
A milestone her father and her friends, who created this memorial behind us, say she was looking forward to. 
 
But instead of planning that birthday celebration, her father, who lives out of state, says they are now planning a funeral. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDRE BELL, DAUGHTER ALEXANDRIA BELL KILLED IN SCHOOL SHOOTING: She was the girl that I loved to see. That I loved to hear from. No matter how I felt, I can talk to her and it was -- it was all right. That was my baby. 
 
Right now, just -- I'm just trying to find some answers. We want to know how he got in. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROADDUS: That father hurting and so many others in this community as well, searching for answers, wanting to know how that 19-year-old shooter was able to enter after investigators say the doors were locked. 
 
Now, the chief commissioner would not tell us exactly how that shooter made his way into the building. 
 
Also killed was a 61-year-old physical education and health teacher who was planning to retire soon. She was beloved by her current and former students. 
 
Listen in. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRANDEN LEWIS, CENTRAL VPA HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE: Miss Kuczka was one of the special teachers. She really cared heavily. You know, and she was the same towards everybody. 
 
Yes, there was no fair and unfair with her. Everything was the same all across the board. 
 
We were having a party in the gym and she was like you're not going to have a soda? And I was like no, I can't drink that. That's not good for you. And she was like, oh, it's heaven to me. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[14:45:01]
 
BROADDUS: The only time Branden smiled when we spoke to him yesterday was when he was sharing memories about that teacher. 
 
And they say, Victor, to teach is to touch a life forever. She certainly touched many. 
 
Back to you. 
 
BLACKWELL: Certainly hearing those stories, just an awful time for that community. You feel for the father who says, doesn't matter how I felt, I was always happy to hear from her. 
 
Adrienne Broaddus, for us in St. Louis, thank you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, Adidas becomes the latest company to drop Kanye West after a string of anti-Semitic remarks. Did they act quick enough, though? That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:50:14]
 
GOLODRYGA: Adidas has ended its partnership with Kanye West after his string of anti-Semitic remarks. The sportswear brand says it "does not tolerate anti-Semitism or any hate speech." And that his comments were "unacceptable, hateful and dangerous."  
 
BLACKWELL: Today, Gap also distanced itself from the artist saying it will remove all of his merchandise from the stores. 
 
The powerhouse talent agency, CAA, dropped West as a client. 
 
Here with us now is Jeffrey Abrams. He's the Los Angeles regional director for the Anti-Defamation League. 
 
Good to have you. 
 
Let's talk about Adidas first because their statement that came out was this bold headline: "Adidas terminates partnership with Ye immediately."  
 
It's been two weeks, though, since he said that he was going DefCon 3 on Jewish people. 
 
Even after he said this, this is what he told Drink Champs about his relationship with Adidas. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YE, FORMERLY KNOWN AS KANYE WEST, RAPPER: The thing about me and Adidas is like I can literally say anti-Semitic (EXPLETIVE DELETED) and they can't drop me. I can say anti-Semitic things and Adidas can't drop me. Now what? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: And that was more than a week ago. What do you make of Adidas decision and the timing of it? 
 
JEFFREY ABRAMS, LOS ANGELES REGIONAL DIRECTOR, ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE: Well, thank you for having me this morning. 
 
We view this decision by Adidas as a very positive outcome. Now, it might be a bit belated but it really illustrates two powerful things. 
 
First, anti-Semitism is utterly unacceptable and has consequences. That's what Adidas -- the action by Adidas today demonstrates. 
 
But, secondly, it also demonstrates, over the last several weeks, over the last two weeks, as you indicate, there's been an upswell, a surge of people, people using their voice, people joining ADL's campaign, Run Away From Hate. 
 
Dozens and dozens of celebrities raising their voice. You listed the numbers of companies that have taken their stand. 
 
So today's outcome -- and the outcome is what matters -- sends a very powerful message. Anti-Semitism is utterly unacceptable. And regardless, regardless of the view, it has consequences. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Ten days. Ten days. That is how long it has been since we heard him say that Adidas will not fire him even if he says anti- Semitic things until Adidas finally did let him go. 
 
Listen, I have a 10-year-old Jewish son and he's been asking me, why hasn't anything been done? He wears Adidas brands. He plays soccer. And he was personally offended, as are millions around the world. 
 
I know that the ADL had been speaking with Adidas. What were they telling you behind closed doors as to why it took this long? 
 
ABRAMS: Well, our senior leadership, because of all this public pressure, because of the campaign, because of the other companies, was in communication with senior executives, other shareholders as well of Adidas. 
 
And this is why we have this outcome today. Whether it was 10 days too late, which it was, every day would be too late. 
 
But the outcome is critical because that's the message it's sending. 
 
And really the risk here is it doesn't end with Adidas. What Kanye West has been doing with his rhetoric, which he continues to double down on, is normalize anti-Semitism at a time when it's surging throughout our country. 
 
BLACKWELL: Let me ask you about the pass that people often give Ye. I say Ye because he's legally changed his name and I'll respect that. 
 
He puts out a new shoe. Not to do with Adidas now. But he'll release new music. And he'll be back into popular culture again. 
 
Six months from now, do you expect we'll go into that pattern again where he will be -- he will either be forgiven or forgotten? 
 
ABRAMS: Well, we certainly hope that's not the case. And this is this moment. We're in a moment where people have gathered together. This has been catalyzing in many ways. Where people have been using their voice.
 
So that needs to continue. Companies need to make a decision about who they do business with. 
 
So if he does have new opportunities, if he does have new opportunities with a company, frankly, like Parler, which he's purchasing, we all need to continue to speak up and speak up loudly. 
 
Parler, for example, is not a social media platform. It's a hate speech platform. It has no regulation about hate speech. And now Ye is on the verge of purchasing it. 
 
So the story doesn't end here with Adidas. The story continues, unfortunately, with the oldest hatred in the world. 
 <br>[14:55:07]
 
What has been happening with Ye, as he's been continuing these rants, is it's normalizing and really giving aid and comfort to white supremacists, to extremists, a band of characters who are all taking comfort and, in fact, gleefully taking comfort in their newest champion. 
 
GOLODRYGA: It's been a very long 10 days, Jeffrey Abrams. Let's hope that this is a teachable moment for all of us and for companies as well. 
 
Thank you for everything that you've done and for your time. We appreciate it. 
 
ABRAMS: Thank you very much. We appreciate your time. 
 
BLACKWELL: Certainly. 
 
Election Day exactly two weeks from today. More than nine million people have already cast their ballots. We'll break down tonight's big debates. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:00:09]
 
BLACKWELL: It's a brand-new hour of CNN NEWSROOM and it's good to have you with us. I'm Victor Blackwell.