Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Trump Weighing Allowing Another Mar-a-Lago Search; Judge: Trump Kew Election Fraud Claims Were False; Americans Feel Economic Squeeze Ahead of Midterms; Putin Declares Martial Law in Four Occupied Ukrainian Regions. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired October 20, 2022 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Max Foster in London. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Donald Trump and John Eastman together were part of a likely criminal conspiracy. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Emails show that President Trump knew that the specific numbers of voter fraud were wrong. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is the closest thing to a smoking gun and just deliberate wrongdoing in this meeting. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're going to continue to stabilize markets and decrease the prices. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I agree with anything that will make gas prices cheaper because right now they are astronomically high. 
 
LIZ TRUSS, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: Mr. Speaker ... 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That I helped all those people that put Liz Truss in number 10. I hope it was worth it. 
 
TRUSS: I am a fighter and not a quitter. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster. 
 
FOSTER: It's Thursday, October 20th, 9 a.m. here in London, 4 a.m. on the U.S. East Coast. And we begin with exclusive reporting. Sources telling CNN former President Donald Trump and his legal team are considering allowing federal agents to conduct a new supervised search of Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida. Still part of an effort to save Trump from potential legal jeopardy amid the Justice Department's investigation into thousands of classified documents that were recently seized from Trump's home. We're also learning about another investigation into the former president. A federal judge has ordered the release of more emails from Trump's former attorney John Eastman to the house committee investigating the January 6 Capitol riot. The judge says those emails show Trump knew his voter fraud claims were wrong but continued to push them in an effort to overturn the 2020 election. Much more on that in just a moment. 
 
We're going to start though with CNN's Sara Murray with more on that potential new search at Mar-a-Lago. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Learning from sources familiar with the matter that former President Donald Trump's team is considering whether to allow federal investigators to return Mar-a- Lago to conduct some sort of supervised search. This would be designed to help satisfy the Justice Department's demands that that Trump return any sensitive government documents that he still has from his time in the White House. 
 
Now there are people around the former president who don't necessarily believe that he still has documents from that period, but the Justice Department has made clear both in private conversations with Trump's team as well as in court filings they think that there were some documents missing. They believe the former president may still have documents in his possession. 
 
Now Trump has taken a very adversarial approach when it comes to the Justice Department -- certainly after the August search at Mar-a-Lago but sources are saying he's considering being more accommodating. That all of these investigations are beginning to wear on him and that the people around him are advocating perhaps for being more accommodating to the Justice Department to try to get some sort of swift resolution to this case. 
 
Now it's still unclear whether this could be what happens. This is just one of the options on the table. When we asked Trump's spokesperson for comment, he declined to comment.
 
Sara Murray, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FOSTER: A source close to the former president says Trump is worn down and looking to get this off his plate so he can just move forward. His former White House communications director has a more critical assessment. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALYSSA FARAH GRIFFIN, FORMER WHITE HOUSE STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: Now he wants to open up Mar-a-Lago to more further, you know, investigations in looking for more documents. It kind of reeks of desperation. I think that he's in a place where he feels cornered in various different investigations. Even today he was sitting down for -- responding to allegations related to sexual assault allegations from over a decade ago. This man is cornered at every turn and he's not surrounded by wise legal counsel. So, I think you're going to see further acts of desperation from him.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: More now on the federal judge who says he aimed at Donald Trump in his efforts to overturn that 2020 election. He says Trump knew his claims of election fraud were false, that he continued to make them, both in court and in the public. CNN's Jessica Schneider has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: A federal judge issuing an opinion for the second time now that former President Donald Trump likely committed crimes in his efforts to overturn the 2020 election. And this is all coming out now because of emails from attorney John Eastman. He worked with Trump and his allies to push the false claims of election fraud. 
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
And the judge is saying that eight new documents must be released from Eastman to the January 6th committee because they contain evidence of crimes. Specifically, conspiracy to defraud the United States and felony obstruction. In particular the judge here points to emails between Eastman and Trump's team where Eastman points out that the numbers of alleged fraud that they presented to both a state and federal court were wrong. Yet Trump knew those numbers were wrong and he signed off on the court filings anyway. 
 
So, Judge David Carter writing this, saying: The emails show that President Trump knew that the specific numbers of voter fraud were wrong but continued to taut those numbers both in court and to the public. The Court finds that these emails are sufficiently related to and in furtherance of a conspiracy to defraud the United States. 
 
The judge is also saying in this opinion that the former president may have committed obstruction since all of these lawsuits were filed not to get legit legal relief but instead to disrupt the January 6th certification in Congress -- which we know was ultimately disrupted by the rioters. 
 
All of these words from a federal judge, they're significant. Because it now adds even more ammunition to these ongoing investigations by the Justice Department and the Fulton County District Attorney's office in Georgia into election interference. And presumably these new emails could be used as further evidence in those criminal probes. 
 
Jessica Schneider, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Conservative attorney George Conway says the judge's ruling opens up significant legal liability for Trump. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) GEORGE CONWAY, WASHINGTON POST CONTRIBUTING COLUMNIST: What this is a smoking gun in Georgia. Because if you look at what the judge describes here of these emails is, they fire off a lawsuit, a state court lawsuit in early December, December 4th, making various allegations about dead people voting, about felons voting, about unregistered voters voting. And by the end of December, they're aware that these allegations are false and that's the email that the judge quotes here. One of the emails where Eastman says, the president has since been made aware that some of the allegations have been inaccurate. And then they go and they make -- they actually -- the lawyers go and they have him file a federal lawsuit where Trump certifies under oath, verifies under oath that these allegations were in fact, true. 
 
You know, that's perjury and that's certainly evidence of federal crimes. But remember when Eastman makes this statement it's December 31st. What happens three days later, two days later? He makes -- Trump makes the call to Raffensperger. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: He's talking there about Brad Raffensperger, the Georgia Secretary of State. Trump pressured him to find 11,000 plus votes so he could claim victory in Georgia. 
 
Now we're keeping an eye on major U.S. economic indicators coming out later today with less than three weeks to go before midterm elections. Among them, weekly job claims and home sales figures as well. 
 
Meanwhile, President Biden traveling to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where he'll be delivering remarks on infrastructure. He'll be making those remarks at a bridge that collapsed back in January. Ahead of a scheduled visit from Mr. Biden it's now weeks away from reopening with repairs funded by the infrastructure legislation the president signed into law last year. 
 
The $1.2 trillion measure was passed in a rare show of bipartisanship delivering billions of dollars in new federal investments in America's infrastructure over the next five years. 
 
President Biden is also taking action to stem the rising gas prices. On Wednesday he authorized the release of 15 million barrels of oil from the U.S. strategic reserves for December and said it might not be the last time. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: With my announcement today, we're going to continue to stabilize markets and decrease the prices at a time when the actions of other countries have caused such volatility. And I've told my team behind me here to be prepared to look further -- look for further releases in the months ahead if needed. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) FOSTER: Well, to put this into context, the U.S. uses about 20 million barrels a day. So, it's unknown what if any impact the release is likely to have on markets in the longer term. Mr. Biden is hoping it will bring down gas prices just ahead of midterm elections. It's worth noting that prices are down over last week according to AAA. 
 
But here's a number that may spell trouble for Mr. Biden and Democrats as the U.S. heads into those midterms. A new CNN poll shows 78 percent of Americans think the economy is in a poor shape. That's despite the fact that wages are up, labor market is strong and new tax credits will help consumers save money on homes and cars. 
 
But why is the view of the economy then so bleak? It's because many Americans feel the squeeze of higher prices on anything from food to gas, to energy and rent. 
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
And as Jeff Zeleny reports, that could tip the balance of Congress next month. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS ANALYST (voice over): The economy and inflation are looming large over the midterm elections only 20 days before Americans choose which party will control Congress and state capitals. At the center of the campaign, gas prices on the uptick and the White House on edge as President Biden and Democrats fight to maintain their majorities in the House and Senate.
 
BIDEN: We're going to continue to stabilize markets and decrease the prices at a time when the actions of other countries have caused such volatility.
 
ZELENY (voice-over): The president once again tapping into the nation's emergency oil stockpile, hoping to rein in gas prices and ease the economic headwinds facing his party. He dismissed Republican criticism the actions were linked to the November elections.
 
BIDEN: It's not politically motivated at all. It's making sure there's enough oil that's being pumped by the companies so that we have the ability to be able to produce enough gas that we need here at home.
 
ZELENY (voice-over): Early voting is underway with nearly 4 million Americans already casting their ballots, including more than 290,000 in Georgia, 450,000 in Michigan, 360,000 in Pennsylvania and 180,000 in Wisconsin.
 
From coast to coast, the campaigns are taking final shape. In the critical Pennsylvania Senate race with Republican Mehmet Oz --
 
MEHMET OZ (R) PENNSYLVANIA SENATE CANDIDATE: That's the real risk here.
 
ZELENY (voice-over): Democrat John Fetterman issuing a new letter from his doctor hoping to cool the contentious debate over his health. His doctor said the Democratic candidate was recovering well from his stroke but added Fetterman continues to exhibit symptoms of an auditory processing disorder, which can come across as hearing difficulty.
 
Fetterman and Oz are set to come face-to-face at the sole debate of a contest that could determine control of the Senate.
 
In Florida, a volley of heated exchanges over abortion rights Tuesday night between Republican Senator Marco Rubio and Democratic Congresswoman Val Demings.
 
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL): I'm 100 percent pro-life. Because -- not because I want to deny anyone their rights but because I believe that innocent human life is worthy of the protection of our laws.
 
REP. VAL DEMINGS (D-FL): You have been clear that you support no exceptions, even including rape and incest. Now as a police detective who investigated cases of rape and incest, no, Senator, I don't think it's OK for a ten-year-old girl to be raped and have to carry the seed of her rapist.
 
ZELENY (voice-over): Across the country, Democrats are hoping supporters will be motivated by a fight for abortion rights, even as Republicans believe crime, immigration, and the economy will resonate with voters. Those challenges come alive in competitive contests like Michigan's eight district, where Congressman Dan Kildee acknowledges the pain of inflation but tells CNN the election should still be seen as a stark choice between Democratic and Republican policies.
 
REP. DAN KILDEE (D-MI): Is it a challenge for us? Absolutely. People tend to hold the party that holds the White House responsible for everything. We just ask folks to really think carefully about what the alternatives are. Look at the current condition of the Republican Party. Look at their policies.
 
ZELENY: Democrats can see that the economic challenges and the inflation woes they've been experiencing are here to stay -- at least for the rest of this midterm election campaign. But they are still trying to frame this as a stark choice with Republicans sending a message to voters, independent voters in particular, what they might be getting if Republicans would win a house majority. All this is nearly 4 million Americans have already cast their ballots making every day until election day so critical for both sides. 
 
Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Dearborn, Michigan.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FOSTER: It's being described as a desperate move by a desperate leader. Vladimir Putin declaring martial law across four Ukrainian regions Russia claims to have annexed just weeks ago. This despite the fact Russia doesn't have full control over those areas. Amongst them Kherson where Russian installed leaders have ramped up the relocation of as many as 60,000 people. Ukraine is accusing Russia of sparking hysteria. Putin is also tightening security across those annexed regions and across Russia. Right now, the Ukrainian people are facing a sharp reduction in
 
 electricity at a time of year when they depend on it most. With winter looming, a third of the country's power stations have been hit by Russian missiles and drones. About 40 percent of Ukraine power generation has been impacted and nationwide energy restrictions are in effect until 11 p.m. tonight local time. The government is asking everyone to conserve electricity as much as they can or risk more frequent blackouts. 
 
CNN's Nic Robertson standing by for us with the very latest from Kyiv and Clare Sebastian tracking developments here in London. Nic, this is an attack on the morale of the country in a way going into the winter. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: It certainly brings the war that's happening hundreds of miles away in the east of the country to the homes of people here in the capital and even further west in the country is cities like Lviv. Here in the capital there'll be rolling blackouts throughout the day. In Lviv they had blackouts overnight. Sumy to the north of here, the authorities there say that the water will be off. That all city electrical transport will be off. The street lights will be off. 
 
Other cities in the country stopping their you know, trolley buses that run off electricity. Various other measures being taken across the country. It gets real and it's gotten cold. I can tell you this standing here. This is gotten cold the past couple of days. So, this is going to impact people's lives. But despite the president having a crisis meeting last night and asking for people for their support, there isn't a sense that this is, you know, a country on its knees at all. People are listening to what the president is saying and they're keeping their lights off when they don't need them, not using heavy energy drawing products, appliances during the day when the draw is greatest. The government's advising them to use these devices, washing machines, that sort of thing, use them overnight when there's more electricity available. 
 
The government is doing its best. And the president says he'll try keep critical infrastructure going. It appears that he'll use a system of generators -- that's what he seems to imply -- to keep those things going, keep the emergency services working and all the critical functions of the country. But this is a war that now bites in places like Kyiv where two weeks ago it didn't bite in the same way -- Max.
 
FOSTER: okay, Nic, thank you. Clare, on this martial law, what's the reason for that? 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So, I mean, on the face of it Putin is saying that he needs to do it because it was in place anyway in these occupied regions and he wants to bring it under framework of Russian laws. So, he's presenting it as a technicality. 
 
But really certainly according to experts and analysts that we speak to, this smacks of desperation. This is another way for Putin to do something to sort of double down on his control of these regions. Something he cannot do militarily. So, we have this extraordinary spectacle of him declaring martial law in someone else's sovereign territory, territory where the is losing ground still. 
 
What it means on a day-to-day level of people living there, not that much probably. Because they are in a war zone. This is, you know, enshrined in Marshall law are things like mobilization. Ukraine has already accused Russia of doing that in these regions, movement of people, seizure of property likely already happening. 
 
I think more impactful are these regions that you see here on the map in Russia, the ones closest to Ukraine who are facing what many are calling mobilization like rules. Including restrictions on entry and exit to those regions, freedom of movement, things like that. I think what's worrying people in Russia, that this is yet another sign of the slow creep of authoritarianism and that it could go further than the decree states. 
 
FOSTER: In terms of the international reaction to this, we're waiting to see presumably if they disagree with it and they don't realize that those regions are part of Russia anyway, so all of this is irrelevant. 
 
SEBASTIAN: Yes, I mean I think that we already know that the international community has condemned the illegal annexations of these regions and have pledged to step up sanctions as a result of that. I don't think this changes much recently. The international community at the moment is heavily focused on Russia's efforts to cut off the electricity to Ukraine. The World Health Organization as described that as a potential humanitarian emergency. And they had of the EU, the EU Commission chief said that it was potential war crime.
 
FOSTER: OK, Clare, also Nic in Kyiv, thank you. 
 
Now in Wisconsin Senate race, Republican incumbent Ron Johnson has taken the lead after strong early showings by his Democratic opponent. More voters are concerned about -- just ahead
 
Plus, a key traffic artery in Florida is back up and running after being after being damaged by hurricane Ian and officials say they've beat a lot of deadlines to get it done as well. 
 
And the slopes opened early for some U.S. skiers amid a freezing cold snap. You shouldn't buy your lift tickets just yet. 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, well I'm excited about ski season that's for sure. But if you haven't dusted off your winter coat off just yet. You probably will be this morning. Record low temperatures possible as far south as Key West, Florida. I'll tell you how long it's going to stick around coming up after the break. 
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: For the first time since hurricane Ian residents of Florida's Sanibel Island  can drive home. The causeway connecting the island with the mainland was damaged the category four storm last month. Officials say repairing damage that looks like this usually takes months but, in this case, they managed to repair it much faster and ahead of schedule as well. This is what the causeway looked like before and after the storm. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis says is still temporary in the state. We'll keep working until the causeway is fully repaired. 
 
More than a hundred people -- 100 million people in the U.S. felt freezing temperatures on Wednesday in an early cold snap. Skiers hit the slopes in Minnesota and Wisconsin after ski resorts were able to open for a limited time. Temperatures were cold enough to keep the manufactured snow frozen and dozens of low temperature records could be broken again today, Derek.
 
VAN DAM: That is exactly correct. I love seeing those visuals too coming out of Minnesota because I'm a snowboarder myself. You've got to have very specific overnight low winter-type conditions in order for that snow to stay on the ground and allow for that early season opening to take place. 
 
Look, we talked about it before the break. This cold snap means business. The coldest air of the season so far. And I want to show you this little blue dot at the bottom portion of Florida. That's Key West International Airport. That's one of the 30 stations that could set a possible record low temperature this morning. 
 
We've got nearly 75 million Americans under freeze warnings or frost advisories. And this goes all the way to the Gulf of Mexico. 
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
It includes us in Atlanta where the CNN World Headquarters is located along with many metropolitans along the East Coast. Some of the most populated areas of our country. Now I haven't pulled up this map in a long time, but this is the wind chill map. This is what it feels like compared to temperature on your exposed skin as you step outside. And the windy city living up to its name. It feels like 28 this morning as you head out the door. 
 
But aside from these temperatures today, this afternoon I want you to see what's coming in the future. Even though we've had a few flurries and those will come to an end across the upper Midwest this afternoon and evening, we have a role reversal in terms of our temperatures. This is very typical this time of year during the autumn months. We're going to see more the blues and greens over the western parts of the country and more of the oranges and reds over the eastern half of the country. In fact, the extended long-range forecast shows the just above average temperatures into next week over the east and below temperatures expected over the western parts of U.S. So, a temperature flip-flop -- Max. 
 
FOSTER: Derek, thank you very much, indeed. 
 
Now police in Florida seized about 12,000 suspected fentanyl pills disguised as packages of popular candy on Wednesday. Authorities say the pills were discovered after a suspect tried to go through security at Los Angeles International Airport. The suspect was detained after trying to flee. Fentanyl is 50 times more potent than heroin. A dose of just 2 mg, about the size of 10 to 15 grains of table salt is considered a lethal dose. 
 
Just ahead, Americans may get some inflation relief from an unlikely source, that is the IRS. 
 
In the British Prime Minister appears to be hanging on by a threat as more cracks appear in her government and a possible deadline emerges. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUSS: Mr. Speaker, I am sorry. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:30:00]