Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Germany Arrests 25 Suspected in Plot to Overthrow Government; Trump Organization Found Guilty of Criminal Tax Fraud; China's New COVID-19 Cases as Rules Relaxed; Ukrainian POWs Freed in Prisoner Swap; U.S. Not Supplying Long-Range Drones to Ukraine; Protests on Tehran Campus when Iranian President Visits for Students' Day; Jamaica Declares State of Emergency to Fight Violent Crime. Aired 10-11 ET

Aired December 07, 2022 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. RAPHAEL WARNOCK (D-GA):  My roots, like the roots of those oak trees, go deep down into the soil of Savannah and Waycross and Screven County and 
 
 Burke County. I am Georgia.
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Raphael Warnock winning the Georgia runoff elections, so what does this ultimately mean for 
 
 President Biden, Donald Trump and the balance of power in the U.S. Senate? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Plus -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  A lot of these guys have physical injuries, scars. But the emotional scars, the mental scars 
 
 from this kind of ordeal, are going to take even longer to heal. 
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Tales of hardship and survival from defenders of Mariupol. We will have an exclusive report. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  And after three years, China begins loosening some of its tough anti COVID policies. 
 
What does it mean for the people?
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KINKADE:  Hello and welcome. I'm Lynda Kinkade at the CNN Center. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD, great to have you with. Us 
 
Over 2 dozen far-right suspects have been arrested in Germany during early morning raids across the country. They are accused of plotting to overthrow 
 
 the government. Germany considers far-right extremism a major threat to security, following a spate of attacks in recent years. 
 
The raids are continuing and German media described the operation as one of the country's largest actions against far-right extremists. Prosecutors say 
 
 members of the group, called Right Citizens Movement, followed conspiracy myths and QAnon ideology. 
 
I want to bring in CNN's Nic Robertson, who has insight. 
 
Great to have you with us from London. So a significant number of arrests during this massive raid across almost a dozen German states, plus two 
 
 other countries. 
 
What more can you tell us about those arrested?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN  INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Yes, so more than 3,000 police involved in what the interior minister described as a 
 
 dangerous mission. More than 150 premises raided, 25 people in custody so far, 22 members of that group, three others, supporters of that group. 
 
This group believes that the current German government is illegitimate. It believes coming after the Second World War that the country was sort of a 
 
 construct, a fake construct of the Allies. This is at the root of their ideology. 
 
That's what the interior minister describes as violent fantasies and conspiracy ideologies. Their plan was quite simply take down the 
 
 parliament, take down the bundestag in a violent way. 
 
Some members arrested were former members of the German military. Now police are still going after -- and there may be new numbers to come later 
 
 in the day, they're still going after another 27 members of this group. So it's not done yet. 
 
But what they've headed off here was potential violence and bloodshed at the heart of the capital, at the very seat of government itself. 
 
KINKADE:  It's just an incredible story. Talk to us, Nic, about the group's ties to QAnon and what sort of things this group has in common with other 
 
 far-right extremist groups. 
 
ROBERTSON:  The sort of sharing of conspiracy ideologies, the conspiracies that, for example, bear no scrutiny to reality in the same way that QAnon 
 
 conspiracies do. The conspiracy that says the German state is illegitimately formed out of the Second World War as a construct by the 
 
 Allies, that beat Nazi Germany back then. 
 
These are ideologies that don't bear scrutiny, don't bear any level of scrutiny at all. Yet, they are really hard held-to principles of this 
 
 particular group. It is a fringe group. It is a minority group. But it has attracted these really hardline thinkers from the right wing, particularly, 
 
 when you look at the images of the police raiding properties.
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
ROBERTSON:  You have forensic -- in their white forensic suits, police officers going into properties. But they've got body armor on top of that. 
 
 So this is a group that had prepared for violent action, that had gone through preparations and planning twice to take down the bundestag before. 
 
When you look at an operation like this, we know very few details from the police yet, but it would likely be an operation that involves gathering 
 
 intelligence over time so you can take down this much of this organization as possible. So 25 members, 150 premises searched. 
 
It is very likely that this is going to take some time for the police to really get to the bottom of it and lay out everything they learned along 
 
 the way. 
 
KINKADE:  Likely, we will see more arrests. We will stay on this story. Good to have you with us, Nic Robertson from London. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KINKADE:  Democratic U.S. Senator Raphael Warnock has beat Trump-backed Republican challenger Herschel Walker in Tuesday's runoff election in 
 
 Georgia. This victory gives Democrats a 51 to 49 majority in the Senate and that could have a major impact on the Biden administration's legislative 
 
 agenda. 
 
I want to bring in CNN's Amara Walker. She joins us live from Atlanta, Georgia. 
 
Good to have you with us. Hundreds of millions of dollars poured into this Senate race. The Democrats winning, securing a true majority in the Senate. 
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, and that will have significant implications when it comes to processing legislation and also 
 
 nominations, because, right now, what they have in the Senate is a 50-50 evenly split, power sharing agreement. That had an impact on the 
 
 committees, that they were evenly split. 
 
And now the committees will have the majority, which means they will have the ability to process legislation and nominations and even have stronger 
 
 subpoena power. 
 
When we look at the numbers, Raphael Warnock had 95,000 more votes than his Republican challenger, Herschel Walker did. That means he expanded his lead 
 
 from the general election in November, where he had a 37,000 vote lead. 
 
Also, Lynda, the turnout was quite impressive. On Election Day itself, on Tuesday, 1.6 million Georgians turned out to vote, a total of 3.5 million 
 
 for this runoff. Compare that to 3.9 million in November, during the general. 
 
Yes, it is less but this is notable because, typically, during a runoff election, what you see is interest wane and so there was a lot of 
 
 enthusiasm when it came to this election. As you said, in the end, Raphael Warnock prevailed, securing a full six-year term. 
 
His win really says several things. Number one, Georgia is truly a purple state. It is a swing state. And the Georgia Democrats are watching this 
 
 closely. Now they will use this as a blueprint to, I'm sure, hopefully win in 2024. 
 
And the other thing it highlighted was the Georgia Democrats' ground game. They really wanted to get out the early vote. And we saw early voting surge 
 
 in that shortened time period. 
 
Senator Raphael Warnock was hoping all those votes that came in early would give him that cushion on Election Day. And that is what we saw happen. I do 
 
 want to toss in some sound from the Georgia secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, who touted the turnout but also reflected on his party's 
 
 loss. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRAD RAFFENSPERGER (R-GA), GEORGIA STATE SECRETARY:  Honestly and I think, really, as Republicans, if we want to do some soul searching, we need to 
 
 win back the suburbs. That used to be our bread and butter. That's what used to be really, really. Strong bit by bit, in the last several years, we 
 
 haven't focused on it.
 
So a lot of it's on the ground game. There's a lot of really good consultants that know what to do. And I think they need to get a seat at 
 
 the table moving forward. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER:  Obviously, this is a big blow to Donald Trump as well, who had handpicked the Republican challenger, the University of Georgia football 
 
 star, Herschel Walker. Obviously, he lost. Now that is another sign that Trump is no longer, not exactly, a kingmaker. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Exactly. He becomes just another Trump endorsed candidate to lose. Amara Walker for us here in Atlanta, Georgia. Great to have. You 
 
 thank you very much. 
 
The outcome of the Georgia runoff vote marks a loss for Donald Trump, as Amara was just saying. He had endorsed Herschel Walker. 
 
And just hours before that, a Manhattan jury found that two Trump Organization companies were guilty on multiple charges of criminal tax 
 
 fraud and falsifying business records. 
 
Donald Trump, who wants to get back into the Oval Office, wasn't charged in this case. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
KINKADE:  The Trump Organization's attorneys say they will appeal. CNN's Kara Scannell joins us from New York. 
 
Good to see you. So Trump's company guilty of fraud, a scheme which meant the company avoided paying tax for some 15 years. The Trump Organization 
 
 was convicted today on all accounts. 
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, that's. Right. The jury came back with this verdict on its second day of deliberations. They went very 
 
 methodically through the charges based on the questions that they asked the judge, as they were working through these deliberations. 
 
Eight men, four women, all New Yorkers came back with the unanimous verdict of guilty on all counts for those two entities. Now at this trial, the 
 
 Manhattan DA's office did not charge Trump and it was just about the corporate entities, they did put Trump center of this trial. 
 
They asked the jury, they asked numerous witnesses questions about their interactions with him. And they told the jury that the former president had 
 
 explicitly solicited some of the tax right at issue in this case, though he wasn't charged. 
 
This conviction is a setback for Trump. It's a blemish on his company. And it comes as he is gearing up for a run for the 2024 election. But it is a 
 
 feather in the cap for the Manhattan district attorney, Alvin Bragg. He spoke to reporters after the verdict. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVIN BRAGG, MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY:  As the jury addresses indicated, this was a case about lying and cheating, false documents, with the aim of 
 
 (ph) evading remaining taxes, with individuals in their corporations. They have now been held accountable in a court of law, right here. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCANNELL:  And Bragg there emphasizing that, in Manhattan, he says no one is above the law, of course, because he is conducting another ongoing 
 
 investigation into the Trump Organization and its finances. As for the conviction yesterday, as you noted, the Trump lawyers say they will appeal. 
 
KINKADE:  All right, we will continue to follow. That Kara Scannell joining us from New York, thank you so much. 
 
A major policy shift in China now. It is scrapping some of its most controversial COVID restrictions. The QR code needed to enter most public 
 
 places will largely be axed and patients with mild or no symptoms will be allowed to quarantine at home, rather than being taken to government 
 
 facilities. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MI FENG, SPOKESPERSON, CHINESE NATIONAL HEALTH COMMISSION (through translator):  Outside nursing homes, welfare homes, medical institutions, 
 
 child care institutions, primary and secondary schools and other special places, proof of negative nucleic acid results, health codes and travel 
 
 codes will no longer be required. 
 
There were also be no more checks on people who move across regions. People will no longer be required to carry out COVID testing upon arrival at 
 
 another city. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Changes there. Beijing says it's keeping pace with the times. But as our Ivan Watson explains, there's still some apprehension. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  For the first time in months, the Chinese government has announced a relaxation, significant 
 
 relaxation, of its strict zero COVID policies. That has triggered some real excitement. 
 
For example, a surge in inquiries about plane tickets for internal travel. 
 
Why is it so important?
 
Because look at some of the changes. For example, the government says no longer will people need to be required to get negative PCR tests to go into 
 
 public places like shopping malls, for example. 
 
Previously, a lot of cities required people to line up and get tested every 48 hours, just to do things like travel on public transport or to go to 
 
 public places. 
 
Asymptomatic COVID cases, people with mild symptoms, and close contacts of COVID cases are no longer going to be bundled off government quarantine, 
 
 where there have been reports of poor accommodations, poor food, poor sanitary conditions. They can now do home quarantine. 
 
Another big change is a lifting of restrictions on travel between regions and provinces. So I spoke with a friend in Shanghai and told her about this 
 
 for the first time. She said, this is wonderful, I can go travel to see my parents, who I haven't seen in another province in months now. 
 
There is a flipside to some of this excitement. That is that the Chinese government has been warning about the fears, the dangers of COVID for years 
 
 now. And now suddenly, the narrative is changing. And it's saying hey, this new variant is milder. You can live with it. 
 
There are still prominent fears in the population. There is a run on over the counter medicines for fever and respiratory illnesses, for example, at 
 
 pharmacies. 
 
But there are some real threats as well. Epidemiologists are warning that there are large numbers of Chinese that are very vulnerable to COVID. For 
 
 example, 23 percent of citizens over 80 are completely unvaccinated. That is like 8.4 million people now at risk. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
WATSON:  China is trying to rush out vaccines to these vulnerable parts of the population right now -- Ivan Watson, CNN, Hong Kong. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  You are watching CONNECT THE WORLD, live from the CNN Center in Atlanta. 
 
Still ahead, CNN talks exclusively to freed Ukrainian prisoners of war. Their heart rendering (sic) stories in time spent in captivity. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. 
 
Missile and drone attacks at Ukraine's Zaporizhzhya region early Wednesday. Several injuries have been reported. Ukraine's military says it has shot 
 
 down 14 Iranian attack drones overnight. 
 
That news coming a day after a third explosion inside Russian territory this week. Moscow says the blasts were Ukrainian drone attacks. Ukraine has 
 
 not claimed responsibility. CNN's international correspondent, Will Ripley, is joining us live from Kyiv. 
 
Good to see you, Will. Just a day or so ago, a Ukrainian official was suggesting that Russia had stopped using drones because they were 
 
 ineffective in the cold weather. Clearly, that is not the case, with these reports of 136 attacks. Ukraine saying they've shot down 14 drones so far. 
 
RIPLEY:  Yes. Now the United States also believes, according to officials speaking to CNN's Nick Paton Walsh, that, for the moment at least, Russia 
 
 has run out of its supply of Iranian attack drones. 
 
But yes, you have this attack of 14 that were shot down by the Ukrainians overnight. CNN cannot independently verify that number. These drones 
 
 essentially operate in a kamikaze manner. They are explosive and they fly into their targets and blow up, potentially, causing very serious damage. 
 
In addition to the constant shelling that is taking place from both sides, Russian-backed officials in Donetsk claimed that least four people died and 
 
 19 were injured in shelling from the Ukrainian side. 
 
And Ukrainians claim that Russian shelling has been injuring civilians down in southern Ukraine as well. So it is a situation where innocent people are 
 
 being caught in the crossfire. 
 
They are having to deal with the nightmarish sounds of air raid sirens and these drones flying overhead, at very low altitude, hitting targets and 
 
 exploding. The U.S. believes that Russia will be getting a resupply of Iranian drones at some point. So clearly, the cold temperatures here not 
 
 stopping the violence and the attacks, Lynda. 
 
KINKADE:  Exactly. And you did witness,  I understand, Will, a prisoner exchange between Russia and Ukraine. You've spoken to some Ukrainians who 
 
 now get the chance to return to their families. 
 
RIPLEY:  Yes. But it's going to be quite a long time before they're able to do that. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
RIPLEY:  The people we met at the Russian-Ukrainian border come from a besieged city that is probably familiar to you, Mariupol. They were the 
 
 ones defending it up to the very end. 
 
They fought hard but eventually, the Russians overwhelmed them. They have been in captivity for the better part of six months. And we met them in 
 
 their first minutes of freedom. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  At an undisclosed location near the Russian border, two buses arrive with 60 Ukrainian soldiers, prisoners of war just released 
 
 in a POW swap with Russia, two women, 58 men, their first minutes of freedom. 
 
This Marine tells me about his 4-year old daughter. 
 
"It's so emotional," he says. "I can't wait to tell her I love her and that I've missed her so much." 
 
Some are parents; others, grandparents; most, defenders of Mariupol, the southern Ukrainian port city that fell to the Russians in May. 
 
"All of us from Mariupol worry so much," he says. "We watched the city. We couldn't fight them off. We don't know how people will react to us." 
 
They will get a hero's welcome, of course. 
 
As we go inside, they each get a cell phone. The first time they've called their families in months. 
 
"How's Mom?
 
"How is Dad?" he asks. 
 
"Are they alive?"
 
Their bodies bear the scars of months of captivity. 
 
"We didn't have any medical treatment," he says. 
 
It's been eight days since he's had a shower. 
 
RIPLEY:  A lot of these guys have physical injuries, scars. But the emotional scars, the mental scars from this kind of hellish ordeal are 
 
 going to take even longer to heal. 
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  One of the two rescued women, a radio intelligence operator, describes months of psychological torture, lies, that half of 
 
 Ukraine was now part of Russia; brainwashing, forced to read Russian poetry, sing Russian songs, pledge loyalty to mother Russia. 
 
"I wondered, when will this be over?" she says. 
 
RIPLEY:  And now you're here. 
 
RIPLEY (voice-over):  "Sorry for my tears." 
 
For this former POW, there are no tears left. Her 6-year-old daughter is still in occupied Mariupol. She had no way to contact her or her husband, a 
 
 sailor. They surrendered on the same day. 
 
RIPLEY:  How does it feel to be out and know that your husband is still there, still in Russia?
 
"I worry so much about him," she says. "They torture men much more than women." 
 
She is not ready to talk about how she was physically treated. She, like everyone here, just wants to see family, wants to go home. For most, from 
 
 devastated and occupied Mariupol, going home is not an option. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY:  And then after they were on the bus, they broke out into the Ukrainian national anthem, something that they basically had to listen to 
 
 in their heads as they were woken up very early every morning by the Russian anthem blaring in their prison cells. 
 
To think about what they endured, the intense fighting, as they tried to fight off the Russians in Mariupol at that steel plant and then to have no 
 
 news from home and to be told that Ukraine was falling to Russia, that more than half of Ukraine, including the capital, Kyiv, had fallen to Russia; of 
 
 course, all lies. 
 
Along with the brainwashing and being told, you are Russian, you are part of Russia and then to hear that man on the phone, Lynda, call up and ask 
 
 his relatives if his parents were still alive, because he didn't know. 
 
They have a rehabilitation program that they are now in. And it's going to be not just mending their physical injuries but really helping them to 
 
 process this incredible trauma, a trauma that many of us thankfully will never have to understand what it's like. 
 
But to see in their eyes, the exhaustion, the fear, the shock but also the gratitude that they are finally back on home soil, even if being back on 
 
 home soil is just the beginning of a very long and painful journey of recovery. 
 
KINKADE:  Yes, unthinkable conditions that they had to endure. Will Ripley, our thanks to you and your team for bringing us that compelling report. 
 
 Thank you. 
 
With the United States and its allies so far refused to supply Ukraine with long-range attack drones. They fear that Ukrainian strikes deep inside 
 
 Russian territory will escalate the war and draw them directly into the conflict. 
 
But when asked if the U.S. is working to prevent Ukraine from developing long range strike capabilities, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin offered a 
 
 telling response. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
KINKADE:  I want to bring in Kylie Atwood from the State Department to talk about Austin's answer to that question and what the U.S. is doing to assist 
 
 Ukraine's military. 
 
Good to see you, Kylie. The U.S. won't necessarily prevent Ukraine from developing these weapons but nor will it stop Ukraine. 
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. That's exactly right. It's a bit of a complicated point of discussion, because the 
 
 Secretary of Defense said yesterday during a press conference that the United States isn't working to actively prevent Ukraine from developing 
 
 their own long range capabilities. 
 
But then you also have the secretary of state, Tony Blinken, saying the Biden administration isn't enabling or encouraging the Ukrainians to strike 
 
 deep into Russia. 
 
And as you noted, the United States has thus far stood back from providing Ukraine with weapons that have extremely long range capabilities, because 
 
 they don't want this conflict to escalate. They don't want the Ukrainians to strike too far inside of Russia.
 
And this conversation, of course, comes on the heels of what happened earlier this week, with two Russian bases hit by long-range drones. No one 
 
 has actually said that they were responsible for those targets right now. 
 
But there are questions about how those kinds of strikes were able to be carried out. 
 
I do think it's important to know, in the context of this conversation, a top State Department diplomat just yesterday, Victoria Nuland, said in a 
 
 conversation with Christiane Amanpour, that the Ukrainians themselves are actually working on developing advanced weaponry, including drones. 
 
And as Secretary Austin said yesterday, the United States isn't discouraging them from doing that. 
 
KINKADE:  Kylie Atwood joining us from the U.S. State Department, good to have you on this story. Thank you so much. 
 
Well, "Time" magazine has named Volodymyr Zelenskyy and the spirit of Ukraine as the 2022 Person of the Year. Of course, the magazine and website 
 
 chooses a person or group that has the greatest impact on society. 
 
The magazine is recognizing that the Ukrainian president's leadership during the war with Russia and the resiliency of the Ukrainian people. The 
 
 announcement was made on Twitter, with a picture on the front cover. 
 
(SPORTS) 
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
KINKADE:  Coming up, defiant and determined to have their voices heard. A day of protest for university students even during a campus visit by the 
 
 Iranian president. We'll have a live report on that story, next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back, I'm Lynda Kinkade at the CNN Center. 
 
While protests have erupted at multiple Iranian universities, as the country marks students' day. Demonstrations even forming on the campus of 
 
 the University of Tehran during a visit by Iranian president, Ebrahim Raisi. 
 
During his address at the university, he said the government understands the protests but not riots. The former president Mohammad Khatami is 
 
 voicing his support for the protest movement. Khatami, a well known reformist, is urging the Iranian government to pay attention to the demands 
 
 of society. 
 
Melissa Bell is following the latest developments in Iran. Joining us now from Paris. 
 
Good to have you with us, Melissa. This student day protest movement playing out across the country. 
 
What more can you tell us about what we're seeing today?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  This is the third day of a strike that was called by the protesters that began on Monday, as far as we 
 
 can tell from videos taken since Monday, of course. 
 
The biggest day since the anniversary of the death in 1953 of three students at the hands of the last shah of Iran's security forces. It tends 
 
 to be marked by demonstrations inside universities, calls for democratic reform. 
 
So the expectation was that this would be the biggest day. That is why some senior officials, including the Iranian president, fanned out to Iranian 
 
 universities, to try to speak to students. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
BELL:  With those scenes you described, even as Ebrahim Raisi delivered his remarks, blaming the United States for what he described as riots rather 
 
 than protests, it comes, of course, as you say, even as the protesters got that important message of support on Tuesday from the former Iranian 
 
 president, who also said that the slogan, "Woman, life, freedom," has become such a central feature of the protests, was a beautiful one that led 
 
 the way toward progress, urging authorities to consider the demands of the protesters and moving toward better governance. 
 
We've also seen similar message of support and condemnation of the regime come from the country's most senior Sunni cleric earlier this week. He said 
 
 that, referring to the allegations of abuse that we have been covering here, for instance, at CNN, sexual abuse inside detention centers, urging 
 
 authorities to hold those responsible to account. 
 
So important messages of support from senior Iranian figures in support of these demonstrations, even as they continue now nearly three months, of 
 
 course, after the death of Mahsa Amini at the hands of the morality piece. 
 
KINKADE:  Thank you, Melissa Bell. 
 
The U.S. and U.K. are voicing concerns about Iranian aggression toward the West. British lawmakers have been told to be on alert for cyberattacks and 
 
 possible harassment from Iranian operatives. 
 
A letter sent to lawmakers last month and obtained by CNN, U.S. officials say that an Iranian patrol boat tried to temporarily blind U.S. Navy ships 
 
 in the Strait of Hormuz this week by shining a spotlight at the U.S.S. The Sullivans and the U.S.S. Lewis B. Puller and crossing within 140 meters of 
 
 them. 
 
CNN's Oren Liebermann joins us from the Pentagon. 
 
The U.S. accusing Iran of harassing its Navy ships. 
 
What more can you tell us?
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  U.S. Central Command, which governs U.S. military operations in the region, called this an unsafe and 
 
 unprofessional action on the part of the Iranian vessel. 
 
This occurred on Monday evening. Not the first time we've seen Iranian boats of this nature try to harass, disrupt or bother in some way U.S. Navy 
 
 or U.S. Coast Guard vessels operating in the region.
 
But on Monday night, U.S. Central Command says the ship operated by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps navy crossed within, as you pointed out, 
 
 140 meters of the ships and tried to shine a spotlight at night toward the bridge of these two U.S. Navy vessels. 
 
In response, the CENTCOM said the U.S. Navy de-escalated with an audible warning, as well as a non lethal laser, at which point the Iranian vessel 
 
 broke off. This happening in international waters.
 
Part of why the U.S. views this as such a concern, because this is a spot where these ships should be able to operate freely. Instead, according to 
 
 CENTCOM, this is the operation of the part of the Iranian navy. 
 
Not the first time we've seen actions like this in the past. The U.S. vessels have occasionally fired warning shots because of the actions of the 
 
 Iranian vessels. 
 
But this continues that pattern of harassment, that pattern of difficult, if you will, interactions between the Iran Islamic Revolutionary Guard 
 
 Corps navy and U.S. vessels and this under the bigger picture of the tense and fraught relationship between Iran and the U.S. at the moment. Lynda. 
 
KINKADE:  All right, we will stand that story. Oren Liebermann at the Pentagon. Thank you so. Much 
 
Banned from public office and sentenced to prison, we will have more on the legal troubles facing Argentina's former president. Stay with us. You're 
 
 watching CONNECT THE WORLD.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. 
 
Jury deliberations in Harvey Weinstein's rape trial are about to pick up again. The jury has deliberated for 11 hours and this will be day four. 
 
 Weinstein is a former movie producer accused of using his influence in Hollywood to assault women. 
 
When their stories broke five years ago, it led to the MeToo movement. If found guilty in this case, Weinstein could spend the rest of his life in 
 
 prison. He has already been convicted of a criminal sex act and rape in New York and sentenced to 23 years in prison. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KINKADE:  Well, let's get you up to speed on some other stories on our radar right now. 
 
A widespread state of emergency has been declared across much of Jamaica in efforts to fight a surge in violent crime. The measure is affecting the 
 
 Jamaican capital of Kingston and tourist hot spot, Montego Bay (ph). The island has one of the highest murder rates in the Caribbean. 
 
A federal court in Buenos Aires has sentenced Argentina's vice president to six years in prison on corruption charges. Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
 
 was also barred from holding public office again. Prosecutors say she funneled high-dollar unnecessary roadwork contracts to a family friend 
 
 during her term as president. 
 
Peru's president has reaffirmed his innocent as he faces a third impeachment vote in congress. In a video message, Pedro Costello said he is 
 
 an honest man who is paying the price for his inexperience as he faces multiple investigations over alleged corruption. 
 
Well, have you ever dreamed of making a grand archaeological discovery in your back yard?
 
How about a popular beach in Florida?
 
That is where surprised beachgoers came across a pretty rare find, a wooden ship which sank off the shore of Daytona Beach back in the 1800s. The sand 
 
 had covered it for two centuries until last month, when a hurricane caused havoc in the region. 
 
An archaeological team is trying to find out more about this ship and they will leave it where it is as they work through their findings. They say the 
 
 sand has protected the wooden structure so far. 
 
"WORLD SPORT" with Alex Thomas is up next. I will be back in about 15 minutes with another hour of CONNECT THE WORLD. Stay with us, you're 
 
 watching CNN. 
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END