Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia Launches More Than 4,700 Missiles At Ukraine; Colorado Springs Police Probe Motive In LGBTQ Nightclub Shooting; UEFA Welcomes FIFA Pledge To Tackle Qatar Labor Issues; Iran Intensifies Crackdown in Kurdish Area; North Korea Slams UN Response To Suspected ICBM Launch; COP27 Summit Strikes Historic Deal To Fund Climate Damages. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired November 21, 2022 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:21]
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. Appreciate your company. I'm Michael Holmes. Coming up here on the program.
 
Playing with fire, the UN's nuclear watchdog sounds the alarm as Russia and Ukraine trade blame for the renewed shelling around Europe's largest nuclear plant.
 
China reports its first COVID death in almost six months raising fears that more harsh lockdowns could be on the way.
 
Plus, the football action gets underway at the World Cup in Qatar.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from CNN Center. This is CNN Newsroom with Michael Holmes.
 
HOLMES: It has now been 270 days since Russia launched its unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and in that time Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy says the Russians have fired more than 4,700 missiles hit his country. In an address on Sunday he said quote hundreds of our cities are simply burned and he gave an update on the fighting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): The first topic is the frontlines the fierce battles as before are in the Donetsk region, although there are fewer attacks today due to the deterioration of the weather. The number of Russian shelling occasions remains unfortunately extremely high.
 
The second topic is energy restoration of networks and technical supply capabilities. The mining of power transmission lines, repairs, everything goes on around the clock. We managed to alleviate the situations in some regions where there were a lot of real problems yesterday. This evening. There are stabilization shutdowns in 15 regions and in Kyiv as well. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: According to Ukraine's national police, more than 44,000 criminal cases have been opened across the country since the start of the war, involving what it says are crimes committed by the Russian military. Meanwhile, Ukraine's Prime Minister says more than $2.7 million have now been allocated to restore the newly liberated Kherson region or at least stopped to it will go towards the most critical needs of residents including access to light, water, heat and medicine.
 
And in the Mykolaiv region, we've learned that a church that survived World Wars one and two has now been completely destroyed by Russian shelling.
 
Shelling also reported at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant over the weekend where experts with the International Atomic Energy Agency said more than a dozen blasts were heard on Sunday morning. The head of the UN's nuclear watchdog said whoever is responsible is quote, playing with fire. As concerns grow that fighting is so close to the plant. It could cause a nuclear incident. CNN's Sam Kiley is following developments from Odesa.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Once again the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station which was captured by Russian forces back in March of this year in the early stages of their campaign is coming under threat.
 
Now the Ukrainian authorities are accusing the Russians of deliberately targeting infrastructure in that nuclear power station that has cut its ability to supply electricity into the Ukrainian national network. They say that they had got reactors five and six up and running and supplying electricity into the already teetering network which has been under extreme military pressure from a series of wave upon wave of Russian cruise missile and drone strikes now for several weeks.
 
The Ukrainian saying the Russians deliberately targeted their capacity to supply electricity internet network. The Russians, for their part are denying as they always do any kind of strikes against a facility that is actually under their control.
 
It is under military control this nuclear power station although the workers there are predominantly Ukrainian and some Russian experts too.
 
And the plan has always been from the Russian perspective to try to pipe that electricity if you like into the Russian network that has not yet happened. Now this all occurring as Nikopol across the river from the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant receives a large amount of incoming Russian missiles and other artillery attacks last night with one person being seriously injured but dozens of buildings and other locations being hit from arguably areas or fire bases very close to that nuclear power station being used by the Russians. Sam Kiley, CNN in Odessa.
 <br>[01:05:06]
 
HOLMES: The latest developments now in this weekend's deadly shooting at an LGBTQ nightclub in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Police investigating the motive and whether it was a hate crime. At least five people killed, 25 others injured. Mourners have been laying flowers at a memorial. Both of Colorado's U.S. senators offering condolences and Governor Jared Polis, the nation's first openly gay elected governor has ordered flags to be flown at half staff. He called the attack horrific, sickening and devastating.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JARED POLIS, COLORADO GOVERNOR: This was just a place of safety for people. It was a place where people could in a conservative community often get the acceptance that too many of them might not have had at home or in their other circles and to see this occur is really just put us all in a state of shock here in Colorado and across the country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Police say the suspected shooter 22-year-old Anderson Lee Aldrich entered Club Q late on Saturday opening fire with what they described as a long rifle. Authorities say at least two people inside the club were confronted -- confronted the shooter fought with him and actually prevented a lot more bloodshed. The suspect did survive and is being treated at a hospital. CNN's Nadia Romero with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
NADIA ROMERO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Another terrible update in this story. 25 people now injured overnight, that number was just 18. So now at 25 injured five people dead. And we were told by authorities that number could continue to fluctuate. We know that not everyone was initially accounted for, some people may have taken themselves to a hospital. Some people may not have gone at all reported their injuries. And that number of people dead stands at five right now.
 
But that number could change sadly, because we know that there are people in the hospital right now in the intensive care units fighting for their lives. I want you to hear from two medical professionals as they discussed what it is taken to take care of these patients overnight and into the day hours.
 
DR. BILL PLAUTH, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, PENROSE HOSPITAL: We've taken care of seven members of our community, two remain in critical care but are in excellent hands. The other five patients mainly had extremity injuries and to have already been treated and released back to the community. And then the others have been to the hospital are still undergoing treatment.
 
DR. DAVID STEINBRUNER, UCHEALTH MEMORIAL HOSPITAL: We do have patients in critical condition as well. But like anything else, it's a moving target. We have all of our physicians actively taking care of everybody as appropriate depending upon their injuries.
 
ROMERO: Now police have yet to release any of the names of the victims of those people who were impacted either injured or killed. They say they're still notifying family members, but we do know the name of the suspect. 22-year-old Anderson Lee Aldrich. Now police say that they recovered two guns in the nightclub. They believe he used a long rifle in the shooting.
 
The district attorney in that area says they believe he acted alone. But as far as a motive, that's something that people are speculating about. You may see that on social media. A police right now say that they are looking into whether or not this was a hate crime, that this particular nightclub was targeted because it was an LGBTQ a gay nightclub.
 
Now we know that the FBI is also investigating that's one of the angles that they will be looking into as well as we await more answers to many of the questions that still remain. Nadia Romero, CNN, Atlanta.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
HOLMES: The deadly shooting in Colorado is like reliving a nightmare that sentiment coming from survivors of the mass shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida six years ago that left 49 people dead. Dozens gathered at the Pulse interim memorial on Sunday to show support for the victims of the Colorado Springs attack.
 
U.S. President Joe Biden condemning the violence and says he's praying for the victims and their families. In a statement, he also said this quote while no motive in this attack is yet clear, we know that the LGBTQI plus community has been subjected to horrific hate violence in recent years.
 
Places that are supposed to be safe spaces of acceptance and celebration should never be turned into places of terror and violence. Yet it happens far too often.
 
FIFA has agreed to support programs that would tackle human rights concerns in Qatar. It comes as the World Cup host nation is facing accusations of widespread abuses.
 
In Paris, protesters staged rallies to denounce the Arab nation during the opening day of the tournament. They said Qatar had mistreated migrant workers and limited the rights of women and LGBTQ individuals.
 <br>[01:10:03]
 
According to representatives from European Football Associations, FIFA is willing to address this by supporting a labor organization office in Doha, and by using funds to help the education of girls and young women.
 
Now on top of the protests, Qatar has also had a rough start to the World Cup itself in the opening match, the host station fell to Ecuador with a final score of two nil. Dozens of Ecuadorian fans you can see there in Doha quickly started celebrating the victory. And it all started when veterans striker Enner Valencia scored the first goal off a penalty kick. Later in the game, he expanded the lead with a header to the bottom corner of the net. You see going in there. With that the host country lost the opener for the first time in World Cup history.
 
Now in the hours ahead, the tournament will continue with three matches scheduled on the first full day of competition.
 
This tournament of course, is truly a global phenomenon with a TV audience likely to reach some 4 billion people by the time the finalist played.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
HOLMES (voiceover): World Cup fever it's not just a Doha thing, fans around the world getting into the matches and revving up support for their teams, even if they're not in Qatar. Back in Brazil, people cheering on the home team hoping for a six World Cup victory by painting the streets of their neighborhoods and streaming flags of yellow, blue and green.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We are all working to give energy to our team and for Brazil to be champions.
 
HOLMES: In one town in India excitement for the cup looming so large there are large cutouts of some of the greats of the game like Lionel Messi and Neymar towering over the roadside. Local businesses say it's already a win for them. 
 
SABIN, SHOPKEEPER (through translator): People are asking for Argentina, Brazil and Portugal jerseys. We have everything from flags and jerseys to cut out. It's going to be a blast.
 
HOLMES: Mexico looking to score some points from on high. One church parish dressing up a statue called The Child of the Miracles in the uniform of the Mexican team. The priest says a first World Cup win for Mexico is a common prayer.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Many people do have this feeling that with God's help they will be able to win.
 
HOLMES: And even though Kenya didn't qualify to play in the World Cup, people in Nairobi still expected to pack the sports pubs where all the African teams are fan favorites.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're still hoping that one of the African nations can probably do well the World Cup but I think the excitement, the build-up, the (INAUDIBLE) and color the fans, that the things that make the World Cup special.
 
HOLMES: Be excited excitement also felt in Idlib, Syria, where a future football star could be sharpening their skills 300 children playing in a mock version of the World Cup, many coming from camps for the displaced and industrial zones in the region. And just like their role models in Doha, these kids say they have one goal to win.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
And do stay with CNN to watch our special coverage of Qatar 2022, Connect the World will be live from Doha all week.
 
Still to come here on CNN Newsroom, in the meantime, two Arabian actresses have been arrested as the government's brutal crackdown on protesters continues. We'll have the details next.
 
Plus, look at some of the successes and failures from climate talks in Egypt. By some say the global community is still not doing enough to tackle the climate crisis.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:16:01]
 
HOLMES: Now that Instagram video you're seeing there was posted by one of two actresses who have now been arrested for showing solidarity with anti-government protesters. You can see she appeared in public without her hijab. Fake media says she was arrested a day later and charged with quote acting against Iranian security and engaging in propaganda activities.
 
The other actress had posted a video of herself without her headscarf on Instagram, two days after Mahsa Amini's death in police custody.
 
Meanwhile, human rights activists fear a crackdown in Kurdish areas of Iran. An activist group posted an unverified video allegedly showing Iranian forces firing indiscriminately into Kurdish cities. And warning in some of the videos disturbing to watch.
 
The group says at least 36 people have been killed in the region since last Tuesday including two 16-year-old boys. CNN has not been able to independently verify those reports.
 
However, in a tweet, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says he's quote, greatly concerned that Iranian authorities are reportedly escalating violence against protesters. And as the Iranian government's brutal crackdown on protesters continues many are facing harsh legal judgments to the media reports that a six to protest was sentenced to death on Sunday. This is a nine-year-old boy was killed in a shooting last week. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh with the latest details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Nine- year-old Kian wanted to be an inventor. He shows off a wooden boat he made for a competition. We don't know when this video was filmed. It surfaced on social media after a little Kian was killed. It was one of a number of people killed Wednesday in what state media said was a shooting incident in the southwestern city of Izeh where anti-government protests have been raging for days. Family members say Kian was on his way home with his father when he was shot. The Iranian government says this was a terrorist attack. But activists say Kian is a victim of the regime's ruthless crackdown on protests, one of more than 40 children killed since September according to rights groups.
 
Every day for more than 60 days now, Iranians have been burying their dead. More than 300 lives lost in this battle for change. 30-year-old Hudhan Kharami (ph) was shot in the head on Wednesday according to activists. This disturbing video captures the moment a bullet struck him.
 
At Kharami's (ph) burial mourners chant, Mother, don't grieve for your child, we will take his revenge. With every funeral their rage grows the brutality only fueling their determination to risk it all for regime change. That regime struggling to contain the popular uprising is now sentencing protesters to death. Several have been handed the death penalty this week in what human rights groups say are sham trials. The repressive Republic's latest attempt to crush the growing dissent. But nothing seems to be stopping the will of the people.
 
The third month of the uprising began with a new wave of strikes and protests sweeping across the country. The rising voices for freedom, refusing to be silenced. Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
HOLMES: Stay tuned to CNN for an exclusive report on Amanpour, Nima Elbagir reports on the brave Iranians exposing a pattern of repression where some security forces in Iran sexually assault and rape protesters. Here's a brief excerpt.
 <br>[01:20:05]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT: This is Hannah, not her real name, a Kurdish Iranian woman recently smuggled out of Iran. She fears for her life. After taking off and burning her headscarf on the streets, she was arrested and detained by Iranian intelligence officers.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They choose the women who were pretty and suited their appetite. Then the officer would take one of them from the cell to a smaller private room. They would sexually assault them there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Tune in to Amanpour 1:00 p.m. Eastern or 6:00 p.m. in London for that exclusive report.
 
At least 30 people were reportedly killed on Sunday, 11 others including a journalist killed on Saturday during Turkish airstrikes in Syria. The U.S. allied Syria Democratic Force for says Turkish warplanes targeted multiple locations along the Syrian borders in retaliation for a terror attack in Istanbul last week. At least six people were killed, 81 injured in that Istanbul attack. The Turkish defense minister is praising his forces for carrying out the airstrikes, but the SDF says they will retaliate.
 
North Korea slamming the UN for siding with the U.S. and condemning Pyongyang's recent ballistic missile tests. State TV is reporting that the country's foreign minister said quote the UN Secretary General has taken a very deplorable attitude on the issue.
 
Last week Pyongyang launched an intercontinental ballistic missile which some experts warn could reach the US. By CNN's count this was Pyongyang's 34th missile launch this year.
 
Now the U.S. Vice President is in the Philippines to reaffirm security ties with the country amid China's growing influence. Earlier, Kamala Harris met with the country's president, she is expected to announce the creation of more U.S. Defense sites in the country. A senior U.S. official says new locations have been identified, and the U.S. has already allocated $82 million for the project. Harris will also announce a series of climate and economic initiatives during her visit.
 
COP27 has come and gone and much like the other climate summits of the past 26 years there is still no global consensus over how to phase out the world's reliance on fossil fuels. The participants did however, agree to a loss and damage fund to help vulnerable countries cope with climate disasters CNN's David McKenzie reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Well, this was supposed to be the Climate Conference of action and on some level that didn't meet that goal. After all night negotiations, there is agreement that there will be a loss and damage fund set up. Now what this is, is largely rich countries, giving funds money to those countries that are vulnerable, the developing nations that are being hammered by the climate crisis already. This is a significant moment, after almost three decades of discussion.
 
ALPHA KALOGA, SENIOR COORDINATOR, AFRICAN GROUP OF LOSS AND DAMAGE (through translator): It is a symbolic day in terms of the impact that this decision will have on the future. Developing countries have been fighting for 30 years to have a fun to have recognition of the losses and damages associated with climate change.
 
MCKENZIE: But if you look at the report card of this climate meetings in Egypt, it's decidedly mixed. Of course there is that loss and damage fund. And also nations agreed again to push towards just 1.5 degrees of warming, but that will be very challenging. So, scientists, because in this meeting, they didn't strengthen the cause for mitigating the worst emissions that are causing the climate crisis. And also, there was no mention of phasing out of fossil fuels, including oil and gas. This was very disappointing to many of the delegates.
 
FRANS TIMMERMANS, EU CLIMATE POLICY CHIEF: When I urge you to acknowledge when you walk out of this room, that we have all fallen short in actions to avoid and minimize loss and damage. We should have done much more. Our citizens expect us to lead. That means far more rapidly reduce emissions. That's how you limit climate change.
 
MCKENZIE: In reality, the 1.5 degrees of warming is very much a longshot at this point. There will have to be a 45 percent cut of current emissions pledges, according to scientists to get there. So we're looking at more than two degrees of warming at this point, the climate crisis is upon us. More needs to be done and we're running out of time. David McKenzie, CNN, Johannesburg.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 <br>[01:25:00]
 
HOLMES: At least five migrants have died off the coast of Florida after their homemade boat capsized. This happened on Saturday, about 50 miles from Little Torch Key. The U.S. Coast Guard says at least 19 people were on the boat when it capsized. Nine were rescued, one was found dead and other four are believed to have drowned a search is underway for those who remain missing.
 
The Coast Guard did not identify which country the migrants were from but did link to the U.S. embassy in Cuba in a Twitter announcement of what had happened.
 
Meanwhile, a controversial Trump era policy known as Title 42 is set to expire in a month, giving new hope to migrants trying to enter the US. The policy allows border agents to immediately expel migrants who've illegal -- who've illegally crossed the border instead of allowing them to seek asylum. It's all in the name of COVID prevention, at least when it was introduced that will leave the Biden administration without one of the key tools it used to address thousands of migrants arriving on a daily basis. CNN David Culver visited the Mexican side of the border to show us what's happening there right now.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): We start early only to realize they are already on the move. From the Mexican side of the border, we watch these migrant families nearing closer to their final destination or so they hope.
 
CULVER (on camera): You can see these folks have already gone across the river. Technically they're already in the US. They'll continue along the wall here until they get an entrance where they will likely be detained and start their process and entering the US. We continue further down along the Rio Grande and find this camp city. It sits in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, opposite El Paso, Texas.
 
CULVER (voiceover): Corodel (ph) her husband and their five-year-old son motivated to try again after learning this week, a U.S. federal judge struck down what's called Title 42. The Trump era policy allows border agents to turn away migrants crossing illegally all in the name of COVID prevention. Since it took effect in March 2020, there have been nearly 2.5 million expulsions most under the Biden administration. What do you know of Title 42?
 
CULVER (on camera): He said two days ago they heard that they got rid of it.
 
CULVER (voiceover): Not exactly. The order remains in effect until December 21.
 
CULVER (on camera): Are you scared? Said he's a little scared. It's always hard because you don't know what's going to happen.
 
CULVER (voiceover): After a tearful hug with a friend, they cautiously inch closer. Dozens do the same over the course of just a few hours. We also meet Rafael Rojas (ph) how to follow in their footsteps. Wearing clothes donated by Americans, he recounts the painful journey from Venezuela, walking through treacherous jungles and witnessing the death. Lot of death.
 
But for some like nine-year-old Ruby Malta (ph), it was an adventure. That's at least how her innocent mind remembers it. She narrates the same four-month track that most in this camp took starting in Venezuela, then.
 
RUBY MALTA (ph), MIGRANT: Colombia.
 
CULVER: Colombia.
 
MALTA (ph): Panama, Honduras, Costa Rica.
 
CULVER: Costa Rica.
 
MALTA (ph): Nicaragua, Guatemala.
 
CULVER: Guatemala.
 
MALTA (ph): Mexico.
 
CULVER (voiceover): Her dream destination. Ruby (ph) can't remember the last time she was in a classroom. She hopes to go to school in New York. Ruby's (ph) family wants to cross immediately. If they could find a loving home for Linda, (INAUDIBLE) part of a family that pets aren't allowed in.
 
Back at the crossing site, this man's mother crying over FaceTime, not knowing the next time she'll see his face. Others forge ahead, a seemingly endless stream when that continues uphill.
 
CULVER (on camera): You can see just over my shoulder here. This is the Venezuelan flag here in Mexico. And the reason for that is the vast majority of these migrants are from Venezuela. The Department of Homeland Security recognizes that as a critical part of this issue here at the border. And it's for that reason that they have created a pathway of sorts to allow 24,000 Venezuelans to enter the US.
 
Here's the issue. We're talking about one of the largest humanitarian crises in the world. And it's for that reason you have millions of people are trying to get in to the US. It seems like the demand and the surge will continue on. David Culver, CNN, Ciudad Juarez, Mexico.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
HOLMES: Coming up next on CNN Newsroom, why Finland is planning to build a barrier fence along part of its eastern border with Russia. Also, China's severe COVID poll will cease drive residents to the extreme the desperate actions they're taking to get out of lockdown that's when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:29:49] 
 
HOLMES: Coming up next on CNN NEWSROOM, why Finland is planning to build a barrier fence along part of its eastern border with Russia. 
 
Also, China's severe COVID policies drive residents to the extreme. The desperate actions they are taking to get out of lockdown. That is when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Ukraine is now responding to Russian war crime accusations. Moscow says video circulated online showed Russian soldiers killed after surrendering to Ukrainian forces. 
 
Well on Sunday, Ukraine's Human Rights Commissioner claimed the Russians staged a surrender and opened fire first. Adding that quote, "returning fire is not a war crime". Russia hasn't yet publicly commented on Ukraine's response. 
 
CNN has geolocated the videos to the outskirts of Makiivka, a recently liberated village in the eastern Luhansk region. The edited video purports to show a group of Russian soldiers lying face down on the ground with their hands over their heads. More soldiers are seen emerging from a building and lying down next to the other troops in the yard. 
 
A man could be heard shouting, come on out, one by one. Which of you is the officer? Everyone come out. A short burst of gunfire then heard and the video cutoff. 
 
A second clip shot from a drone appears to show the same dead men on the ground surrounded by pools of blood. 
 
We are unable to verify what exactly happened in the first clip or what happened between the clips but we do know from Reuters that the U.N. human rights office is aware of the video and is investigating. 
 
Russia's ministry of defense says the video quote, "shows a deliberate and methodical killing of more than ten immobilized Russian servicemen". Executing prisoners of war, of course, is a war crime under the Geneva Conventions.
 
Ukraine has accused Russia of multiple war crimes since the invasion began. Now, Finland is planning to build a barrier fence along part of its eastern border with Russia. The proposed fence will cost an estimated hundred $43 million covering only 10 to 20 percent of the border itself. Workers expected to start next year. 
 
Now Finland closed its border with Russia at the end of September, around the time thousands of Russians were fleeing Vladimir Putin's partial mobilization for the war in Ukraine. 
 
All right. For more on this story, I am joined by Klaus Dodds. He's the executive dean for the School of Life, Sciences and Environment at Royal Holloway, University of London, also a professor of geopolitics. He joins me from London. And thanks for doing so, so early in the morning there.
 <br>[01:34:58]
 
HOLMES: And it's not just Finland. Finland is planning this fencing. Poland has done a fence. Other Baltic nations have plans as well. 
 
Where does it stop? And is this a viable defense against Russia's so- called weaponization of migrants. I think you called it psycho geopolitics? 
 
KLAUS DODDS, EXEC. DEAN, SCHOOL OF LIFE, SCIENCES AND ENVIRONMENT AT ROYAL HOLLOWAY, UNIVERSITY OF LONDON: Yes. Thank you. Thank you for inviting me on to the show. 
 
I mean I think that there are several aspects to this. Fundamentally, this is a sort of reaction to a worsening geopolitical environment. And I think that it is important to say that this hasn't come out of nowhere. 
 
Really, from 2015 onwards, it was becoming increasingly obvious that Russia was seeking to capitalize on irregular migration. And of course, the great impulse for this came in the aftermath of the Syrian civil war and humanitarian crisis. 
 
So I think this impulse to build or to establish a fencing, barbwire to impose more surveillance infrastructure is really an attempt to reassure domestic populations in countries like Poland and Finland. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, so it's a symbolic thing as much as anything. I mean I was in berlin when the war was open that way back in 1989 and covered the, you know, hopes and dreams that followed that historic day. 
 
Do you get a sense that there is a return to that kind of division between the west? Literally with a fence like this and symbolically, in a historical context? I think you called it a barbwire curtain as opposed to the old iron curtain. 
 
DODDS: Yes, I think I probably had that on my mind because I was in Berlin about a week ago for a NATO workshop. And I was very much thinking about that sort of historic juncture that you described. You know, I was a student when the Berlin Wall was dismantled in November of 1989. And I had just been very struck, and this is the subject of my book
 
 called "Border Wars" about how quickly fencing, walling is returning. And I think that there is this really profound sense in which Europe is turning in on itself and it's partly because migration has become so politicized, so weaponized our domestic political cultures that actually third parties that wish us harm can use it I think very, very creatively and exploitatively as a kind of wedge issue. 
 
Finland, for example, has been gripped by a sort of hardening of attitudes. You know, you have the Finns Party, you have the Sons of Oden. They are all seeking to capitalize on this sort of growing sense of hostility to the migrants and what they represent. 
 
HOLMES: That is so true and it is so widespread. We are not just talking about Europe's borders with Russia. It is right through Europe. 
 
When this war though eventually ends, do you think Russia's relations with its neighbors are forever changed? Or forever is a long time? 
 
DODDS: Well, I think again we have to sort of be careful to think that everything has a sort of inevitability or things unnecessarily fixed if you like in (INAUDIBLE) and concrete. Remember how few of us actually predicted the disintegration of the Berlin Wall in November 1989. 
 
We had our suspicions that the Soviet Union might well be teetering on the edge, but change can happen remarkably quickly. 
 
I think inevitably, we are going to have to find a working relationship with Russia, come what may. And if nothing else, one thing that will drive us is the ongoing reality of climate change. 
 
We cannot have an energy superpower such as Russia completely disconnected from any kind of dialogue. And as long as Russia retains a strategic relationship with countries like China, I am afraid that Russia will be too important to ignore. 
 
HOLMES: Yes. A fascinating take, a fascinating look, and an important discussion. Professor Klaus Dodds thanks so much. I really appreciate you taking the time. 
 
DODDS: Thank you.
 
HOLMES: China is reporting its first COVID-19 death in nearly six months as new infections begin to surge. A man reportedly died on Saturday after being diagnosed with the virus less than one week before. Now, that all comes amid a spike in cases not seen since earlier this year. State media reporting the last COVID death on record was in late May. 
 
The Chinese manufacturing hub of Guangzhou has announced additional lockdowns for parts of the city just one week after residents took to the streets in protest. Officials in one area announced the lockdown would last from Monday until Friday due to rising cases. 
 <br>[01:39:52]
 
HOLMES: The city's largest and most populated district has shut down some businesses and suspended all dine-in services at restaurants. 
 
Now the effects of China's brutal restrictions are becoming more apparent every day. Some residents have been locked in their homes for months on end taking a toll on their mental and physical health. 
 
CNN's Selina Wang has more. We do warn you, some of what you are about to watch can be difficult to see.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The piercing cries of a grieving daughter. She kneels and cries by her mother, who lays motionless on the ground, still wearing a mask. 
 
Her mother jumped to her death from the 12th floor of their apartment building, their compound under lockdown in the northern region of Inner Mongolia after two COVID cases were reported. 
 
In this widely-shared audio recording, the daughter is heard banging on the tall barricades that locked residents inside. She pleads, "open the gate, open the gate, I am begging you, please." She's eventually allowed to rush to her mother side. 
 
Neighbors filmed the tragedy from their windows. Audio messages captured their desperate pleas to building management to be allowed to comfort the daughter. COVID enforcers and police surround the body. 
 
Local police said the 55-year-old woman suffered from anxiety disorders. A later statement from police blamed managers of the locked building for their slow response. 
 
In the eastern province of Shandong (ph), a group of COVID enforcers in hazmat suits dragged a resident out into the streets. Two people hold the man down while others kick and punch him. Another woman is thrown to the ground. 
 
Many cases of brutality from COVID workers have not been held accountable, sparking outrage in China. But this time police without giving a motive for the attack detained seven COVID workers in involved in the beating.
 
In Hubei Province, just outside of Beijing, a desperate father stepped out of his car, holding a knife. He tells the authorities his baby son has been out of baby formula for a long time during lockdown. He gets back in the car and drive right through the COVID barrier. 
 
Moments later, police arrive. They escort him, handcuffed towards a large group of policemen. They surround him, one policeman sprays him down with disinfectant. He's arrested, all because he needed to feed his baby. 
 
WANG: After outrage on Chinese social media, local police released a statement saying the man have been fined only 100 yuan or less than $15, and that his child's milk powder problem had 0been resolved. 
 
These scenes of suffering and tragedy adding to rage over the growing human and mental health toll of China's brute force COVID restrictions. In the southern metropolis of Guangzhou, residents locked down for weeks rushed to the streets, pushing, taking down red barriers and metal gates, trapping them in buildings. 
 
Protesters cheering and shouting, demanding that they want to eat, they want to be unsealed, as people struggle to get enough food, essentials and medical care in lockdown. 
 
Beijing recently announced incremental changes to COVID restrictions but said the country is sticking to its zero COVID policy. And for people who have lost their loved ones in lockdowns, these changes are all too little, too late. 
 
Selina Wang, CNN -- Beijing. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Still to come, NASA prepares to lose contact with the Orion spacecraft as it nears the moon. I speak with a retired astronaut about the Artemis mission and its far-reaching impact on space travel. 
 <br>[01:43:59]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Three, two, one -- boosters (INAUDIBLE) and lift- off of Artemis 1.
 
We rise together back to the moon and beyond.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: In the coming hours, NASA's Orion spacecraft is set perform a critical maneuver to enter the next phase of the Artemis mission. The craft launch last week was the first step in a new mission to put astronauts back on the moon. Crews on earth now preparing to direct the unmanned craft on a fly-by of the moon where they will then lose contact with the craft for more than half an hour. 
 
It's a crucial move to sling Orion into the next part of its journey, holding a distant orbit of the moon for nearly a week.
 
I want to bring in retired NASA astronaut Leroy Chiao now. He joins me from Houston, Texas. It's always good to get you on matters of space.
 
What are we going to see Monday during this moon fly-by. I mean you were inspired to become an astronaut by the Apollo moon missions. What are they most looking forward to seeing? 
 
LEROY CHIAO, RETIRED NASA ASTRONAUT: Well, we should be getting some very great images as the Orion flies very close to the moon within about 100 kilometers or so. So about 65 miles and we should be getting some high resolution shots. 
 
And of course, the Orion has been performing flawlessly so far but it's still got a lot to go. A lot of things to accomplish. But it is all looking very well. 
 
HOLMES: What do you see is the potential of the program? I mean in theory, it's the beginning of what is hoped to be sustained human presence on the moon. Do you think that will actually happen? I know you have your doubts. 
 
CHIAO: Well, I hope so. I mean, I would love to see the United States get another moon program going. This is the very first steps of an operational program. So hopefully we'll be able to do that, you know. 
 
On the downside, it has taken much more time than was originally anticipated, a lot more cost than was originally anticipated. And of course, the future is unclear because it's going to take some more money and time to accomplish. 
 
So I'm hopeful, but you know, there are other things that could come in. We should partner -- NASA could partner with a commercial company. A lot of things could happen. But I'm hopeful that we will have a sustainable exploration program. 
 
HOLMES: What would be the cost versus reward benefit of that human presence on the moon? 
 
CHIAO: Sure. It's always more expensive to send humans, as we know. But you know, humans, we kind of relate when other humans are there doing the exploring. 
 
So there is kind of an intangible there, you know. It's about yes, exploration, for sure. Scientific discovery, for sure. But it's also about things like national prestige and inspiring the next generations, which are a little bit less tangible. 
 
So yes, it does cost money. But when you put it into context, with the whole budget of the United States, it's actually still pretty much a small drop in the bucket. 
 
HOLMES: I know you're a big supporter of robotic space missions, as well, human rights, obviously. What can humans do on these missions that -- particularly on a place like the moon that robotic missions can't? 
 
CHIAO: Sure. And you know, robotic missions and human missions are very much complimentary. Traditionally, we send robotics missions out first because they are much more efficient, much more easily gotten to their destinations. They send back a lot of very important data, scientific data, data about the environment. 
 
And so that helps pave the way for human exploration. That was certainly the case for the moon. And you know, hopefully coming up, that will be the case for Mars. We have gotten so much information out of the rovers and other spacecraft that we and the other nations have sent to Mars. [01:49:54]
 
CHIAO: This helps us to better understand that environment, to buy down risk and increase our chances of mission success or eventually send humans there. So you know, in a way the moon is a stepping stone to Mars, a great place to develop and test our hardware, train astronauts, as well as do scientific research. 
 
So hopefully, we can find that right balance of spending and compromise and partnerships to create a win for everyone. 
 
HOLMES: Humans haven't been on the moon since 1972. Artemis, of course, not the only one trying to get back there. Who is likely to make it their first this time around, do you think? Is there enough collaboration? You know, people working together. 
 
CHIAO: That is an open question. I mean the Chinese have made no bones about their desires to send their astronauts to the moon. The moon has been an important cultural symbol historically in China and other Asian countries. 
 
China has a successful human space flight program going. They just completed their space station and are in full operation. So, they're looking to advance their capabilities and the moon is the logical place to go. 
 
On the other hand, you know, we're moving ahead to see this program, the Artemis program. Other companies, working with companies like SpaceX to developing new hardware, new spacecraft, new boosters that promised to, hopefully, will cut costs to get to orbit and to get to the moon and eventually to Mars.
 
Ideally, we will have a partnership to expand the partnership, expand the partnership. You know, SpaceX is already a contractor that is helping to develop at least one lander or lunar lander for NASA. So maybe that partnership can be expanded and we can get there sooner rather than later at a lower cost. 
 
HOLMES: Looking forward to seeing how it all goes. Always great to speak with you and get your insight. Leroy Chiao, thank you so much. 
 
CHIAO: My pleasure, thank you. 
 
HOLMES: Archaeologists in Italy are finding amazing artifacts on the site of what might have been an ancient community. Coming up, the masterpieces they're retrieving from a distant past. 
 
That is when CNN NEWSROOM comes back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Ancient history is coming to life at an archaeological dig in Italy. As CNN's Ben Wedeman now shows the scientists are discovering art and artifacts that are thousands of years old buried beneath the sands of time.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Archaeologists freed from the mud and murky water a masterpiece from the distant past. A bronze statue of a boy, dating perhaps more than 2,000 years. 
 
Excavations over the last three years at this ancient hot spring in San Casciano Dei Bagni of the Tuscany Hills are bringing treasures to the surface. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We found a bubble of time. 
 
WEDEMAN: Professor (INAUDIBLE) leads the international team here and it's still amazed at what they found. 
 
JACOPO TABOLLI, SIENA UNIVERSITY: The first coins came out with no corruption. They were perfect. And then slowly, slowly, he was two, he was -- there were thousands and then the statues. It was, of course, extremely emotional. 
 <br>[01:54:51]
 
WEDEMAN: The artifacts date back to as early as the 2nd century BC, immaculately preserved by combination of mud and mineral water. Ancient pilgrims would lower their offerings to the gods into the thermal water -- coins, bronze statues, and likenesses of specific body parts, hoping that by bathing in these waters, the gods would heal their ailments. 
 
At a time when a rising Rome was at war a was at war with the Etruscans, the original inhabitants peoples of the area. The peoples mingled in the spring in search of health area, healing and fertility. 
 
At a restoration lab run by Italy's cultural registry, archaeologist (INAUDIBLE) shows me some of those offerings, including a bronze likeness of vital organs. 
 
"You can see the smallest details," she says -- the trachea, the lungs with all the veins and arteries, the heart with (ph) diaphragms, deliver this spleen and the intestines. 
 
Bronze, the, arms, legs were also found in the mud. So far, more than 6,000 coins have been fished out of the mud. Plus bronze heads, statues and other items. 
 
A veteran of Italy's antiquities restoration department, Simona (INAUDIBLE) is to clean the antiquities and to preserve them. I've never seen (INAUDIBLE) she tells me. 
 
Several others springs in the area has yet to be excavated. Water has yet to yield other ancient His job is to clean the antiquities and try and preserve them. 
 
I've never seen a find like this, she tells me. Several other springs in the area have yet to be excavated. Mud and water have yet to yield all their ancient secrets. Ben Wedeman, CNN -- Casciano Dei Bagni. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: A British comedian says he has destroyed his own money to protest David Beckham's role as the Qatar World Cup ambassador. Joe Lycett streamed this video, which you see is to show him spreading to stacks of cash, totaling $11,000 he says. 
 
He says he did it because Beckham failed to cut ties with Qatar. If the football legend had done so Lycett said he would have donated the money to charities which support queer people in football.
 
Thanks for spending part of your day with me. I'm Michael Holmes. You can follow me on Twitter and Instagram @HolmesCNN. 
 
Stay with us because Rosemary Church will be back with more news in just a moment. And you don't want to miss that.
 <br>[01:57:22]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)