Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Ukraine Works to Restore Power After Massive Russian Assault; U.S. Urges De-escalation as Turkey Targets Syrian Kurds; Day 5 of World Cup Features Final Opening Matches of Group Stage; Family Blames China's Zero COVID Policy for Father's Death. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired November 24, 2022 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:36]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: In the last hour or so that we've been here in Kherson, there's been a constant shelling backwards 
 
 and forwards, almost all of that shelling will ultimately rely on somebody on the ground telling the gunner where to drop those bombs. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: An exclusive report from Kherson where we meet the Ukrainian resistance fighters working behind enemy lines 
 
 while the city was under Russian occupation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's not just death. It literally could be worse. We would kill us on the street rather than be arrested. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: In Iran where more than 14,000 protesters have been arrested, we speak to a man who plans to carry on despite the dangers. And -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I just want to get justice for my dad. Why did you lock us down? Why did you take my dad's life away? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: A grieving son blames China's zero COVID policy for the death of his father. A special report is coming up. 
 
I'm Becky Anderson. Hello, and welcome to a special CONNECT THE WORLD live from Doha where the FIFA 2022 World Cup is now a well underway. Cristiano 
 
 Ronaldo will soon be taking to the field. One of the world's greatest players. 
 
First up this hour, Ukraine says electricity has been restored to all parts of the nation's power grid. But individual households it says are being 
 
 connected gradually. It follows Wednesday's devastating wave of Russian missile strikes on key infrastructure. 
 
And as Ukraine's nuclear energy chief warns that Vladimir Putin is, quote, "pushing humanity to the brink of nuclear catastrophe," well, he says for 
 
 the first time in 40 years, all four of Ukraine's nuclear reactors were disconnected due to the Russian onslaught. 
 
About a quarter of homes in the capital city are still in the dark. But as you can see here, surgeons performing heart surgery on a child in Kyiv were 
 
 forced to use a torchlight. 
 
Well, Ukraine's president says the Russian assault is analogous to using weapons of mass destruction. 
 
CNN's Matthew Chance went to visit a reception center in Odessa in the south of the country where many of those suffering after the power outages 
 
 are going to get basic supplies. From there he filed this report a little earlier. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Yes, I'm out and about because the power cuts across the country and the water 
 
 shortages have really led to, you know, a humanitarian crisis across the country. You've got thousands of people on the move. Moving from their sort 
 
 of war torn frontline locations to big cities like Odessa where they can at least get some kind of relief, some shelter, some food, some electricity 
 
 provided by generators. 
 
This is reception center right here in the middle of Odessa and there's a pretty big crowd of people. There's about 500 to 700 families from all over 
 
 Ukraine that come here to try and get food and water, and sort of basic sanitation supplies as well. It's a big center. Actually some people here, 
 
 some of the stuff they picked up, and -- (speaking in foreign language). 
 
Can I have a look at what they've got? 
 
This woman here is from the Donetsk Oblast. Of course that's one of the main centers of the fighting. She's come here, several hundred kilometers 
 
 miles away. And -- (speaking in foreign language). 
 
Yes. All right. Some sweetcorn. Some beans. Unspecified a can of beans. Some oil. Some washing up liquid here. Toothpaste, a lot of this of course 
 
 from USAID. From the United States. But there are other donors from around the world and from private companies as well. 
 
It is all sort of helping scratch the surface at least. Providing some support for these people. But the big problem is, the missile strikes from 
 
 Russia are continuing. Electricity and water systems are being pounded by the Russians. 
 <br>[10:05:03]
 
And it means that with every day that passes, this humanitarian crisis, these shortages are getting worse and worse. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, that was Matthew Chance reporting. 
 
In the recently liberated Kherson region of Ukraine we are now learning how citizens there, Ukrainian citizens, mounted a fierce resistance and fought 
 
 back against the Russian occupation. 
 
My colleague, Sam Kiley, spoke with some of them and this is his report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KILEY (voice-over): Archie killed twice while he was still a teenager. 
 
(On camera): If I'm the guy who stops to pee, so I'm having a pee. And then what do you do ? Oh, God, I got a chill then. 
 
(Voiceover): He says he left his victim to bleed on the grass in the pitch dark. Archie struck again moments later, another drunk Russian soldier. 
 
 Another throat cut. He acted alone, but now he was one of Kherson's resistance fighters. 
 
ARCHIE, KHERSON RESISTANCE FIGHTER (through translator): They were wasted. It had only been a few days since they entered the city. I finished the 
 
 first one immediately and then caught up with the other one and killed him on the spot. I threw with a knife and the jacket covered with blood and 
 
 just left. 
 
KILEY: Archie was only 19 when the Russians captured his city in March. With a friend he says he drove around the city gathering intelligence to 
 
 send to Ukraine's armed forces. 
 
ARCHIE (through translator): At least 10 Russians were slaughtered every night. I wasn't the only one in Kherson. There were a lot of athletic and 
 
 clever partisan guys. 
 
KILEY: For eight months, Ukrainian partisans waged a psychological war against the occupiers and their collaborators, targeting Ukrainians who 
 
 took top posts handed out by Russia. 
 
KIRIL STREMOUSOV, RUSSIAN-APPOINTED DEPUTY HEAD OF KHERSON REGION (through translator): As a result of a sneaky terrorist act today our colleague, my 
 
 friend Dimitri Savchenko (PH) has died.
 
KILEY: Stremousov himself would die in the final days of Russia's occupation of Kherson City, which ended three weeks ago. 
 
Kherson was the only regional capital to fall to Russia, but its population made sure that the invaders were unwelcome from the start. 
 
(On camera): That's incoming. In the last hour or so that we've been here in Kherson, there's been a constant shelling backwards and forwards. Almost 
 
 all of that shelling will ultimately rely on somebody on the ground telling the gunner where to drop those bombs. 
 
(Voiceover): Ihor (PH) is a young father. This warehouse is wrecked because of him. 
 
IHOR, KHERSON RESISTANCE MEMBER (through translator): The Russian military kept here around 20 to 30 vehicles. There were armored trucks, ABCs and the 
 
 Russians live here. I was passing by this place and I saw all the vehicles. 
 
KILEY: Ihor (PH) communicated on his phone app with his handler, Codename the Smoke. 
 
IHOR (through translator): I turned on the camera and pointed it at the building and I was just walking and talking on the phone and the camera was 
 
 filming. I deleted the video of course because if they would stop me somewhere and check my videos and pictures, there'll be questions. 
 
KILEY: Less than a day later he says Russian vehicles were a mangled mess as Ukraine rained missiles down on the newly identified target. It was a 
 
 crucial step in destroying Russia's capacity to hold on to the city. 
 
With the Russians now massed on the eastern side of the Dnipro River, they're close and still control 60 percent of the province, which they 
 
 claim is now part of Russia. No doubt there are many Ukrainians among them, who will also prepare to prove them wrong and to kill. 
 
(On camera): Do you feel sorry for the guys you killed at all? 
 
ARCHIE: No. 
 
KILEY (voice-over): Sam Kiley, CNN, Kherson City. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
ANDERSON: It's been a battle of rebukes today between the U.N. Human Rights Council and Iran. Human Rights Council members met in Geneva today where 
 
 many are pushing for an investigation into Iran's severe crackdown on protesters. 
 
Now these protests erupted in September after 22-year-old Amahsa Amini died in police custody. The U.N. says Iran's disproportionate use of force must 
 
 stop, notably when it comes to women and children. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLKER TURK, U.N. HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS: I'm alarmed by reports that even children suspected of having participated in protests are 
 
 being arrested at school. Hundreds of university students have been summoned for questioning, threatened or suspended apart from entering 
 
 university campuses. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: The U.N. Rights chief also called what's happening a full-fledged crisis. 
 <br>[10:10:04]
 
The Iranian representative in today's special session called the meeting, quote, "politically motivated, appalling and disgraceful." 
 
Well, CNN's Jomana Karadsheh has been covering the protests from the start. She joins us live from Istanbul in Turkey. 
 
It's an interesting one, this, isn't it? Because quite clearly there is very little mechanism, international mechanism to prevent what is going on 
 
 in Iran at present. Do we know of any concrete next steps that the United Nation plans or can take next? 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is the aim of this U.N. Human Rights Council special session on Iran where you have two countries, 
 
 Iceland and Germany, that have presented a draft resolution to create some sort of an independent investigative accountability mechanism that would 
 
 allow for the collection, preservation, documentation of evidence of these human rights violations, Becky, to ensure that there is some sort of an 
 
 accountability mechanism in place to try and hold the perpetrators of these human rights violations and abuses to account. 
 
This is something that human rights groups, Iranians have been pushing for for years. And it's finally happening today. We have to wait and see what 
 
 comes out in the next few hours. There is still an ongoing debate coming. But then we heard from the Iranian regime as you mentioned earlier. They 
 
 are still standing by their position, their narrative that this is all some sort of foreign plot, that it's everything and everyone's fault other than 
 
 the Iranian regime. 
 
Blaming it on everything from social media platforms, from Twitter and Instagram, to Israel and Germany. Refusing as we've heard from multiple 
 
 countries that have come out today and spoken in support of the protesters. And U.N. officials as well. Really refusing to hear and listen to what 
 
 their own population has been calling for for weeks. Just completely dismissing it all. 
 
And I have to tell you, Becky, we have been speaking with Iranians. And they tell you the numbers right now speak for themselves over the past more 
 
 than two months. More than 300 people killed and the numbers are believed to be much higher than that. 14,000 people have been arrested including 
 
 children. At least six people have been sentenced to death for taking part in these protests. 
 
So Iranians around the world and Iranians inside Iran taking part in the protest believe that the international community must do something. And the 
 
 least they can do is to try and hold the regime accountable for these crimes. 
 
Take a listen to what one protester told us recently. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): Iranians have been risking it all for freedom. To break free of the shackles of a repressive regime that's brutality and 
 
 bullets are only fueling the anger of those on the streets, making them more defiant than ever. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I know as long as the Islamic Republic is ruling the country, I couldn't do my duty. 
 
KARADSHEH: This doctor we're not identifying for safety reasons was one of hundreds of medical professionals who gathered in Tehran last month for a 
 
 demonstration organized by their council, and it was violently broken up. Doctors tell CNN at least one person was killed, many injured, including 
 
 one shot in the eyes and blinded. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As soon as I arrived there, the area was full of all kind of forces. Plainclothes forces was too much. And they literally shoot 
 
 everyone that was walking down the sidewalk of the street. I have bruises, multiple bruises in front of my body and back, and all of them was above my 
 
 waist. But I saw injuries with batons and they beat a lot, electric shock. 
 
KARADSHEH (on-camera): Just for going out and protesting you could go to jail or get killed. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's not just death. It literally could be worse. We wish they kill us on the street rather than they arrest us. 
 
KARADSHEH: Because of all the horrors in detention facilities. All these risks, the threats to you and to your family, that's not stopping you and 
 
 others? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Of course not. They killed more than 1,500 in three days, in less than a week. About two years ago, we know it could happen, 
 
 and all of us will continue. There is no other way. We came from a long journey and we realize that the Islamic Republic cannot change and don't 
 
 want to change. 
 <br>[10:15:01]
 
It is our duty to our next generation that we fight it and hopefully we can change it. 
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): Only Iranians can change it, as the protesters and others say, but they believe the international community can do more than 
 
 just watch, condemn and announce symbolic sanctions. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They could close Islamic Republic ambassadors, United Nations, UNICEF, pay more attention. We need actual action. The most 
 
 important question is, are they willing to do that or not? To stand on the right side of history or not? 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH: And, Becky, no one is under any illusion that the road to justice and accountability in Iran or to the Iranian people is going to be 
 
 easy. It's going to be a long road. But Iranians I've been speaking with, human rights activists, human rights lawyers who have been really pushing 
 
 for this U.N. Human Rights Council session today believe that just the fact that they were able to bring the international community together to try 
 
 and table this resolution, they are hoping that it is going to pass. 
 
We'll have to wait and see, but the fact that they were able to do this, they believe is a great success. It is one step closer to getting that 
 
 accountability and justice that they have been pushing for for so long because they say what we have been seeing happening over the past two 
 
 months, is the result of decades of impunity that must come to an end, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: Jomana Karadsheh is on the story for you out of Istanbul in Turkey. Thank you. 
 
Well, the U.S. is urging Turkey to end its aerial assault on Kurdish forces in northern Syria. Now Turkey has been targeting what it calls terrorists 
 
 in the region following an explosion in Istanbul that killed six people last week. One of the Kurdish groups is the SDF, that's a key ally in the 
 
 U.S. fight against ISIS, while Turkey is a critical NATO ally. 
 
The U.S. State Department warns the Turkish bombings are destabilizing and that they are putting civilians and U.S. personnel in danger. 
 
Let's bring in Scott McLean and sort this out for us. 
 
How will this affect the relationship between the U.S. and these two groups? That is clearly a very important question at that point. Is it 
 
 clear? 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I think what is clear at this point, Becky, is that this has put the United States in an extremely awkward, 
 
 uncomfortable position. And surely, you have to imagine that this is also putting a strain on U.S.-Turkey relations. The U.S. has done what it can to 
 
 work through its diplomatic channels. It's sent over its Ambassador Jeff Flake to meet with the Turkish Defense minister earlier today. 
 
And yet despite those efforts, despite also the public statements that it has put out, it seems that these two sides are no closer to seeing eye to 
 
 eye on this issue. The most recent readout that we got from the Turkish Defense minister was from a call that he held with his Russian counterpart, 
 
 and that readout basically made clear that, look, Turkey has no plans, at least immediately, to let up. 
 
For a little bit of context here, Turkey has really been eyeing up and threatening the possibility of an operation in northern Syria for a year, 
 
 maybe even longer than that. And this terrorist attack that we saw in Istanbul a little over a week ago seems to have provided the catalyst for 
 
 Turkey to go ahead with that operation and actually pull the trigger. So they say that this operation thus far has already hit almost 500 targets. 
 
 Neutralized more than 250 terrorists. This is what the Turks are saying. 
 
Now we don't know the precise location of all of the strikes, but we do know about some of them. And you can see from a map that we've had drawn up 
 
 that all of them are in the Kurdish-controlled part of Syria that is secured by the fighting force on the ground, the YPG. The difficulty here 
 
 is that Turkey has also gone after an airbase that is manned by U.S.- Kurdish allies in that region, and it's YPG fighters. And two SDF fighters were killed. 
 
The United States also said that no Americans were hurt, no Americans were injured, that its personnel were put at risk, though didn't specify 
 
 precisely how. So the latest statement that we have from the Pentagon says that this escalation threatens the global coalition to defeat ISIS' 
 
 yearslong progress to degrade and defeat ISIS. Recent airstrikes in Syria directly threatened the safety of U.S. personnel who are working in Syria 
 
 with local partners to defeat ISIS and maintain custody of more than 10,000 ISIS detainees. 
 
Yesterday, we also, though, heard the Turkish Defense minister saying we will continue our fight against terrorist without interruption. Let no one 
 
 doubt that. 
 <br>[10:20:02]
 
Our struggle will continue until the last terrorist is neutralized. Our friends, allies and interlocutor countries need to understand our stance on 
 
 this issue very well. Our only target is terrorists. 
 
So not only is this going to continue, but yesterday we also heard President Erdogan float the possibility of ground troops at some point in 
 
 the future as well -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: Scott McLean, on the story for you. 
 
There's just a call to prayer here in Doha, in Qatar. Still ahead, the World Cup has plenty of famous players. But Ronaldo of course is in a class 
 
 of his own. Or practically. In the next hour, the Portuguese striker will join his national team for their first outing at this FIFA 2022 World Cup. 
 
 We've got a preview for you on that match, coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, two matches down, two to go in what is the final day of the group stage opener of the World Cup, and maybe the most anticipated match. 
 
 Today is the last one. Tournament favorite Brazil will face what is a very strong sign as we said from Serbia. And in just about 40 minutes from now, 
 
 Ghana will take on Portugal with all eyes on Portugal captain Cristiano Ronaldo after what can only be described as an acrimonious departure from 
 
 Manchester United, and therefore a busy week of headlines. 
 
Amanda Davies is with us. 
 
You are there outside the stadium. Portugal's manager promising no distractions over this Ronaldo debacle. Is it, though, likely to be running 
 
 through players' minds? 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: Well, if the buildup that were listening to is anything to go by inside the stadium behind us, 974, Becky, 
 
 is all about one man and that man is Cristiano Ronaldo. He just got the biggest cheer as his name was announced as they were running through the 
 
 team sheets. And then the announcer decided to get everybody practicing that Ronaldo chant, the Siiiu noise. 
 
We had three or four attempts at it so they're certainly warming up to make it all about Cristiano Ronaldo. And he is a player that, let's not forget, 
 
 just a couple of weeks from now, will return to domestic football, but without a club to go to. So nothing is being said publicly, as far as we 
 
 know, no deal is done. And that is very much was on the agenda for him and his agent Jorge Mendes. 
 
And it doesn't get much better as a shot window than playing on the world's biggest stage, the football world cup, does it? 
 <br>[10:25:02]
 
You know, this is the tournament he has always said he wants to win, widely seen as his last shot at that major piece of silverware. His coach Fernando 
 
 Santos said it's the one he wants to win as well. 
 
I can tell you, Becky, he has been named as captain, and is starting in this side this evening. A real attacking side that has been named by 
 
 Fernando Santos with the likes of Joao Felix, Bernardo Silva, Ruben Dias, they're all -- the young Qatar players around Cristiano Ronaldo. But Ghana, 
 
 for their part, have a really large supporting contingent here. So many based in Qatar, so excited about seeing their national team up this close 
 
 and in person at this tournament. 
 
The atmosphere is certainly building, getting a little bit quieter now because everybody is set to head inside for the big kickoff, which is now 
 
 just a half an hour away. 
 
ANDERSON: Amazing. Well, if it is to be that shot window that he hopes it will be, he will open the team and himself play better than the 
 
 Argentinians has set in the second half the other with their Messi. 
 
All right, good stuff, and of course favorite Brazil in action later tonight. Some samba soccer will be on display. We should expect that to be 
 
 a decent match. And we'll keep you bang up to date on what happens with that one, of course, as well. 
 
Up next still on CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JESSIE WILCZEWSKI, WALMART EMPLOYEE WHO WITNESSED SHOOTING: The only thing that made it real was the vibrations hitting your chest and the ringing 
 
 from the gun going off. And it just kept going and going. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, the horrifying eyewitness accounts from the latest mass shooting in the United States. And also, after the break, as new COVID 
 
 infections surge across China, one family says they have paid the ultimate price for Beijing's zero COVID policy. Their story is after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Doha, and coming for you at the World Cup. You're watching what is a special edition of CONNECT THE 
 
 WORLD this week. 
 
Well, as soon as one service is restored in Ukraine, another one is bombed and goes down, it seems. That certainly was the situation at the Kyiv heart 
 
 center where doctors had to perform heart surgery by torchlight. 
 <br>[10:30:05]
 
An official in the president's office says electricity has now been restored to all parts of the country's power grid, but individual 
 
 households are coming back online gradually. Now this is after Russia targeted all of Ukraine's nuclear power plants on Wednesday. Well, Kyiv 
 
 says those missile strikes caused a blackout in the power system. Even spilling over into neighboring Moldova. Well, that's the story out of 
 
 Ukraine. 
 
Coronavirus problems mounting for China. Despite its zero COVID policy, the country recorded more than 31,000 local cases. That is its highest since 
 
 the start of the pandemic. 
 
And this comes as violent protests erupt at the world's largest iPhone assembly factory in central China with workers there upset about pay and 
 
 insufficient anti-COVID measures. 
 
And social media video shows workers at the Foxconn plant confronting police in hazmat suits. The company is offering those who are willing to 
 
 quit their jobs and leave the Zhengzhou compound a $1400 payout. 
 
Well, some Chinese residents are now blaming Beijing's strict policies for the deaths of their loved ones. CNN's Selina Wang, spoke with one man who 
 
 says his father may still be alive he believes if it weren't for zero COVID. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): They sit together, sobbing, shaking, looking at photos of his father, her husband 
 
 mourn his death at their home on the outskirts of Beijing. 
 
The local government killed my dad, he tells me breaking down in tears. I just want to get justice for my dad. Why did you lock us down? Why did you 
 
 take my dad's life away? 
 
His 58-year-old father needed emergency medical help when their building was locked down. He says there were no COVID cases in the building. But 
 
 China seals off entire neighborhoods even when there are only suspected cases nearby. 
 
(On camera): Do you blame your father's death on this country zero COVID policy? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, we're sure. 
 
WANG (voiceover): He says his father was in healthy condition when he suddenly collapsed. No one could go in or out of the building for help. He 
 
 shows me the numerous calls he and his mother made to the emergency line. He recorded one of his many calls, as he became increasingly desperate. He 
 
 says the ambulance took an hour to arrive. By then it was too late. 
 
He shows us the way to the hospital. 
 
(On camera): It took us about five minutes to get from his house to the hospital, less than two miles away. When his father was sick he had four 
 
 relatives waiting outside his building begging to go in and drive him to the hospital but they wouldn't let them in. 
 
(Voiceover): He says authorities and the hospital gave him no explanation for why the ambulance took so long. All they gave him was this document 
 
 stating the date and time of his father's death. His mother, unable to speak, overcome with grief. She cries like this day and night. 
 
(On camera): Why are you taking the risks to speak to us? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't want this kind of thing to happen again in China and anywhere in world because of the lockdown and the medical shortage, the 
 
 shortage of ambulance caused my father's death. 
 
WANG (voiceover): Outrage in China is mounting over the human costs of the country's draconian zero COVID policy. China carefully counts every COVID 
 
 death, but not the countless people who died because they couldn't get emergency care during lockdown. Authorities have acknowledged many of those 
 
 cases, but they usually blame poor enforcement of zero COVID instead of the policy itself. 
 
Before his father's death, he fully supported the country's zero COVID policy. But the local government's execution of the policy is beyond 
 
 reasoning, he says. It's inhuman. He shows me his favorite picture of his father, surrounded by family. His son who was closest to his grandfather, 
 
 now struggles to eat or focus, he tells me. The quarter of his room piled with lettuce, potatoes, leeks and canned food. 
 
(On camera): He says all this food here is in case they get locked down again. 
 
(Voiceover): The corn planted by his father is one of the few things he left behind. 
 <br>[10:35:01]
 
His grief now mixed with fury. He struggles to comprehend the meaning of it all. His father's death in the name of zero COVID. 
 
Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Selina Wang is reporting there. 
 
We are learning more about the latest troubling mass shooting in the United States, and horrifying stories from some of the survivors of that. It 
 
 happened at a Walmart in Chesapeake, Virginia, on Tuesday evening. All six of the dead were Walmart employees. They were killed by a co-worker, one of 
 
 the store managers who has been described as a loner. He turned the gun on himself after killing those co-workers. 
 
Dianne Gallagher has more details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Harrowing stories of survival after another mass shooting. 
 
WILCZEWSKI: The only thing that made it real was the vibrations hitting your chest and the ringing from the gun going off. And it just kept going 
 
 and going, going. 
 
GALLAGHER: Jessie Wilczewski, a new employee at the Chesapeake, Virginia, Walmart, hid under a table until she came face-to-face with the shooter. 
 
WILCZEWSKI: He just had the gun up to my forehead. And -- it's just really hard. He told me to go home. 
 
GALLAGHER: The city of Chesapeake identifying the shooter as 31-year-old Andre Bing. Walmart confirms he was an overnight team lead. According to 
 
 employees, Bing entered the breakroom just as employees were clocking in to start their shifts. 
 
KEVIN C. HARPER, WALMART SHOOTING WITNESS: Just left by the breakroom. (EXPLETIVE DELETED) came in there, started capping people up in there, 
 
 started shooting. 
 
GALLAGHER: Investigators were seen searching the alleged shooter's home, and police say the gunman was armed with several magazines and a pistol. 
 
Briana Tyler witnessed the shooting and says there were around 15 to 20 people in the breakroom when the shooter entered. 
 
BRIANA TYLER, WALMART EMPLOYEE WHO WITNESSED THE SHOOTING: He didn't say a word. He didn't point at anyone. He didn't look at anyone specific. He just 
 
 had a blank stare on his face. And he just literally just looked around the room and just shot. And there were people just dropping to the floor. 
 
GALLAGHER: Six employees were shot and killed, including a 16-year-old. Police believe the gunman died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That is the body of a person they just brought out in a shopping cart. 
 
GALLAGHER: According to police, two employees were found dead in the breakroom. Another victim was found in the front of the store. And three 
 
 victims were taken to local hospitals but later died. Six others were injured. 
 
Twenty-four-year-old survivor Jalon Jones was in the breakroom and shot multiple times, including in his back, his mother told CNN affiliate WTKR. 
 
KIMBERLY SHUPE, SURVIVOR JALON JONES' MOTHER: He was on a ventilator. He wasn't able to breathe on his own from the gunshot wounds he sustained. But 
 
 now he's talking. He's just glad to be alive. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: That was Dianne Gallagher reporting for you on the very latest from there. 
 
Well, still ahead, if you are celebrating Thanksgiving, and your Thanksgiving turkey is not ready yet, just take a look at this. This jolly 
 
 giant bird is part of Macy's parade, and we will join it as soon as we get back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:48]
 
ANDERSON: All right. Well, it's time for one of the greatest New York City traditions. It is the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. And for those of who 
 
 have ever seen it before, it is a procession of huge balloon shaped animals, superheroes, and cartoon characters. Millions of people wake up 
 
 very early in the United States to try and save a place on the busy route as the parade makes its way from the Upper West Side towards Macy's 
 
 flagship store in what is known as Herald Square. 
 
Well, Brynn Gingras also woke up very early and is out there watching those balloons and floats and the -- it looks like a rather nice day in New York. 
 
 Explain what's the atmosphere like? 
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Oh, my gosh. Becky, it is gorgeous out. It was no drama, no suspense, the balloons were flying, that's always a big 
 
 question when it's windy out here in New York City, but it was the perfect day. I got to tell you, Santa just passed us on its way to 34th Street 
 
 where Macy's Herald Square is. That signifies the unofficial start to the holiday season, but there are people now just kind of starting to leave the 
 
 parade route but I want to grab someone before they leave because we want to talk about how exciting this was. 
 
Tell me what your favorite part of this parade was. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think Santa had to be the best part of the whole show. 
 
GINGRAS: Right. The unofficial start to the holiday season. Are you ready for it? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, I can't wait. This was the best way to kick it off. 
 
GINGRAS: Yes. And how long did you wait? Just so people abroad know that this is dedication. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is a big thing. We got here about 4:00 in the morning. 4:00, 4:30. So we've been here, and it was worth every minute of 
 
 the wait. 
 
GINGRAS: Happy Thanksgiving. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Happy Thanksgiving. 
 
GINGRAS: And honestly, the streets of New York City were lined at 4:00 this morning. People excited to see this parade. And now it is winding down, and 
 
 Thanksgiving here can begin. It's such a festive tradition and exciting. And I was so happy to be a part of, Because. I guess Happy Thanksgiving if 
 
 you're celebrating wherever you are. 
 
ANDERSON: Well, we're not -- I don't celebrate, but I know that you do so Happy Thanksgiving to you. 
 
Brynn, very quickly. You had a whole load of kids there. Just let me -- let's just have a quick chat to those kids before we leave you. There's a 
 
 whole bunch of kids, I want to know what time they got up this morning. Just for the lady that you were speaking to, have they gone? 
 
GINGRAS: Over here. 
 
ANDERSON: They're gone. 
 
GINGRAS: Yes. Yes, here we go. Becky wants to know what time did you guys get up this morning? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 4:00. 
 
GINGRAS: 4:00? Did you set an alarm. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No. 
 
GINGRAS: No, Mommy woke you up? See, I told you they're dedicated and this is a New Yorker right here. Dedicated to this parade. 
 
ANDERSON: That's lovely. 
 
GINGRAS: It is such a tradition here. 
 
ANDERSON: Lovely. Thank you. They just look like they were still awake which is brilliant. I'm sure they'll have lunch and take a kit later on. 
 
Good stuff, Brynn. Thanks very much. 
 
"WORLD SPORT" is up after this break and I'll be back in 15 minutes with another hour of CONNECT THE WORLD for you from here in Doha, in Qatar. See 
 
 you then. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:45:33]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END