Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Two Million Voters Cast in Georgia's Runoff; Donald Trump Want to Terminate Constitution; Iran's Morality Police Not Abolished; Moore County to Experience Dark Nights; Mauna Loa Attracts More Tourists; France Team Advanced to Next Round. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired December 05, 2022 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world, you are watching CNN Newsroom, and I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead, Georgia's crucial U.S. Senate runoff just one day away. CNN is following the candidates and their final push to win voters. 
 
Reports Iran's controversial hijab law fueling a nationwide movement with global support is under review. We'll have a live report. 
 
And you are looking at live pictures of lava spewing from Hawaii's Mauna Loa volcano, it is drawing in quite a few spectators, but the flow is unpredictable. We will have the latest from the CNN weather center. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Live from CNN center, this is CNN Newsroom with Rosemary Church. 
 
CHURCH:  Good to have you with us. Well, we are now just one day away from Georgia's high stakes runoff election that will determine who will hold the final seat in the U.S. Senate. 
 
On Tuesday, voters will hit the polls to choose between incumbent Democrat Raphael Warnock and his Republican challenger Herschel Walker. Both will be back on the campaign trail in the hours ahead, after a weekend push to reach voters. 
 
Democrats hope for a Warnock wind to solidify the Senate majority, ahead of Tuesday's election more than 1.8 million people across Georgia cast ballots during early voting. Now time is running out for both candidates to sway those still undecided. 
 
CNN's Dianne Gallagher has the latest from Loganville, Georgia. 
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The Georgia Senate runoff campaign entering the final stretch, just days to go. Really a matter of hours. More than 1.85 million Georgians have already cast their ballots, but look, a woman told me today I feel like we are always voting in Georgia. And that's what the campaigns are up against here. In an election fatigue state making sure that the people who haven't
 
 already voted actually show up on election day. Now, here in Loganville, Georgia, Republican Herschel Walker was joined by Republican Senators Tim Scott and Joe Kennedy. They spent a lot of time talking about former President Barack Obama who, of course, came to Georgia on Thursday to rally for Senator Warnock. 
 
Now Herschel Walker in these final days hasn't really changed his speech, but he is a more having a more pointed attacks against Senator Warnock when it comes to missing Senate votes because he has been out campaigning and also to work to tie him closely to President Biden. 
 
Now, we are also seeing surrogates for Senator Warnock try and tie Herschel locker to former President Trump. Senator Warnock keeping a very busy schedule for the duration of this four-week runoff period, he held a large event last week with the AAPI Victory Fund, and also spent the day in Athens, which is awful considered Herschel Walker territory. 
 
The University of Georgia being there and outside of Atlanta, in Gainesville. Warnock will maintain that aggressive campaign schedule through election day. But we've talked about Herschel Walker having a bit of a lighter campaign schedule, not having as many events. This was the only one today. 
 
That changes on Monday, the Walker campaign scheduling five different campaign events. A much more ramped up schedule than we have seen really throughout this entire runoff period as we go from days to hours before election night. 
 
Diane Gallagher, CNN. Back to you. 
 
CHURCH:  Donald Trump's call for the termination of the Constitution has sparked swift and strong reaction, but not among most members of his own party. The former president made that statement on Saturday after the release of internal Twitter communications about a 2020 New York Post story that the team suspected came from hacked materials. On Sunday several Republicans were questions about Trump's comments. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. DAVID JOYCE (R-OH):  Whoever the Republicans then to pick up fallen behind, because even if it's Donald Trump hasn't called suspending the Constitution. Again, I think it's going to be a big field, I don't think that Donald Trump is going to clear out the field like he did in the '1.6 
 
GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, CHIEF ANCHOR, ABC NEWS:  That's not what I'm asking. I'm asking you, if he's the nominee will you support him? 
 <br>[03:05:01]
 
JOYCE:  I will support whoever the nominee is, and I just do not think that at this point he will be able to get there because I think there is a lot of other good quality candidates out there. MARGARET BRENNAN, HOST, CBS:  All elected leaders swear to uphold the
 
 Constitution. Just calling for its suspension, it that disqualifying for a presidential candidate? 
 
UNKNOWN:  It certainly not consistent with the --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BRENNAN:  You know I'm asking the question.
 
UNKNOWN:  I do. It's certainly not consistent with the oath that we all take. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Earlier, I spoke with Ron Brownstein, a CNN senior political analyst and senior editor at The Atlantic, and began by asking him about Georgia's runoff election.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST:  This is the sixth Senate election that voters in Georgia have had to cast ballots in in the last two years, counting the two and the general election in '20, the general runoffs, the general election in '22, and the runoff. It's astounding how many people still showed up, as you pointed out almost two million ballots already. 
 
Look, what we saw in the first round and reflected in the exit polls was a very close race. Georgia was probably the swing state that snapped back the most in general towards Republicans, between '20 and '22. The other key states, Arizona, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin, all very clearly move towards the Democrats. 
 
But in Georgia, Republicans quite well on most, in most races up and down the ballot, but voters have enormous doubt about whether Herschel Walker is up to the job of being Senator. They question his kind of command of the issues. Obviously, his morality, his veracity, and all of that has really created an enormous opportunity for Raphael Warnock to buck the tide in the state. 
 
The best thing that Herschel Walker had going for him was the chance that he could be the 51st vote creating a Republican majority Senate, which I think many voters in Georgia would support. That is not there anymore. So, whether Republicans are still going to come out in the numbers they need once they no longer have the opportunity to control the Senate, I think that is the big question and it's the one that gives Warnock the thumb on the scale edge of the end. 
 
CHURCH:  Yes, and not long to wait on that one either. So, meantime, former president Donald Trump is going to be calling for the termination of the Constitution to overturn the 2020 election and reinstate him to power, an extension of course of his continued effort to deny the 2020 election results. Why are we not seeing more Republicans push back on this, given that more are starting to question his viability as a 2024 presidential candidate? BROWNSTEIN:  Right. I mean, this is, and I'm glad you use the word
 
 terminate. Because too many of the interviewers use the word suspend the Constitution. That isn't what he -- that isn't what he said in his -- in his tweet. He said that the Constitution should be terminated to restore him to power through non-Democratic means. I mean, that is essentially as close as you can get to the definition of an autocratic coup. 
 
And yet, as you pointed out, once again as we have seen throughout Trump's, really since his emergence as the national figure, virtual silence from Republicans as there was about personally criticizing Trump over his meeting with Fuentes and the rapper Kanye West, and virtual silence over his suggestion in between that meeting and these comments that the January 6th defendants are being railroaded and that he would not only pardon but apologized to them. 
 
And what you are seeing is the continued refusal of Republicans to stand up to Trump. Even when he clearly is threatening kind of the pillars of American democracy. And I think what's really important is that this is happening at a moment when Trump is at a low ebb, where as you point out, elites in the party are saying that he has, kind of have led them into a dead end after this disappointing midterm. 
 
And if Republicans are unwilling to stand up to him at this point, what does that say about what would happen if the became the nominee again, much less the president again, and try to move down on any of the past that he have laid out in the last couple of weeks? 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  And our thanks to CNN senior political analyst Ron Brownstein for his perspective. 
 
Well, nearly three months into the protests that have rocked Iran, a pro-reform outlet says that an Iranian official has announced a review of the hijab law that requires women to cover their heads. 
 
The announcement likely aimed at quieting anti-government demonstrations that have swept Iran since the death of Mahsa Amini in mid-September. The reform group quotes the attorney general which saying "Iran's parliament and judiciary are reviewing the law which came into effect decades ago." 
 
He is also quoted as saying "Iran has abolished its so-called morality police tasked with enforcing the dress code." 
 <br>[03:10:01]
 
So, for more on all of this, we want to bring in Salma Abdelaziz, she joins us live from London. Good morning to you, Salma. 
 
So, what is the latest on this apparent review of Iran's hijab law and the conflicting reports on the country's morality police? 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Rosemary. So, let's break down these comments from Iran's attorney general that have been uttered over the last few days. Let's start with these reports that he said that Iran's morality police was abolished. Now please take that with a grain of salt. These were off-the-cuff remarks in response to a reporter asking why the morality police had not been seen in the streets of Iran since these demonstrations began, just about three months ago. 
 
And there seems to be seen this interpretation here, because Iran state media was very quick to push back against these comments, make clear that Iran's judiciary is not in charge of morality police, that falls under the interior ministry of Iran. 
 
And you would imagine, Rosemary, if Iran was indeed abolishing its morality police, that would be a major announcement that would be well orchestrated and very clear. So, let's put that aside for a second and talk about the review of the hijab law, which that's critical here. 
 
Also, these comments coming from the attorney general who is speaking Thursday, saying that the judiciary and Iran's parliament are reviewing this hijab law. 
 
Now, we could hear the results of that review in the next couple of weeks, but it's important to remember here, Rosemary, that the demands of these protesters who have been taking to the streets in Iran in multiple cities for weeks and months now, have grown way beyond a call for a review of the hijab law or for any changes to the hijab law. They are now demanding serious, serious reforms. Even the overthrow of Iran's religious establishment. 
 
So even if there are changes coming, it's unlikely that they will meet the demands for those many protesters still on the streets. Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  All right. Salma Abdelaziz, many thanks for that. 
 
Still to come, lava from Hawaii's Mauna Loa volcano inches closer to a main highway. We will look at whether it poses a danger to the visitors flocking to see the spectacle. 
 
And Sunday's matches in the round of 16, puts two powerhouses on a collision course at the FIFA World Cup. We'll take a look at that. 
 <br>[03:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Lava continues to flow from Hawaii's Mauna Loa volcano, these are live pictures. Molten rock creeping closer to the Big Island's main highway. As of Sunday, the lava was moving about 40 feet per hour, or 12 about meters, but officials are warning it could be unpredictable. 
 
That's not stopping some folks from getting a closer look, as tourists and locals flock to witness the world's largest active volcano in action. Mauna Loa last erupted in 1984. Officials say that they can't say how long this eruption will last. 
 
Well joining us right now is CNN meteorologist Britley Ritz. Good to see you again, Britley.
 
So, the images are spectacular but clearly very dangerous, what impact is this volcano having in Hawaii and how careful do people need to be as they try to get a look? 
 
BRITLEY RITZ, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Absolutely, Rosemary, they are gorgeous. But one of the bigger problems is the air quality. You are seeing the billows of smoke, that's sulfur dioxide and when that mixes with oxygen you get these small particles that are smaller than a tip of hair. So that goes right up our nose and into our lungs. That's 2.5 microns. 
 
That is not much and it doesn't take much to cause a big problem for those of us who have respiratory problems like asthma. So those of us who are a little bit older or maybe very young will likely have some of the bigger problems. 
 
So, we have that trade winds, the easterly wings due to high pressure right now. And when that winds began to shift with a front that's going to move on through, that's going to cause some bigger problems. So, our air quality is not too bad at the moment, but when that front moves through a lot of these green dots are likely to turn moderate to sensitive groups because of the wind shift pulling more out of the south and a lot of it moves into a heavily populated area. So, we'll have to be cautious on that. 
 
So, there is the high, but we are watching the low and that front move through. And what that will do is, sure, bring in rain chances and kind of dilute the smog or the vog, if you will, that volcanic smog but the problem is that we are going to be dealing with a lot of this here, switching up and the winds shifting. So again, our air quality is going to suffer a bit, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  And Britley, we are also watching U.S. storms very carefully, what are you seeing and who is most affected? 
 
RITZ:  Yes. We've got snow in the northwest and then we have heavy flooding rain concerns across the lower Mississippi Walley and into the Tennessee Valley as well with the storm fronts. 
 
So, let's take a look at the snowfall, first we have winter weather advisory in effect for parts of the central and northern Rockies. And back to the Sierra is under winter storm warnings. And some of these locations over 4,000 feet are dealing with up to five feet of snow here in just the upcoming days. 
 
Now we've already picked up over 20 inches of snow in some of the Sierra's and there is the snowfall moving through over the next 24 hours. you'll see the darker grays, the purple, and the pinks peaking up, showing you that heavier snowfall. 
 
But we are expected to pick up an additional 10-plus inches of snow through the Sierras back into parts of the central Rockies. Again, over 4,000 feet, where we will likely pick up nearly five feet of snow when it's all set and done. The next threat comes in with a low that stretches across the central
 
 plains and back into the lower Mississippi and on up into the Tennessee Valley, that flood threat becomes a bigger issue late Monday into Tuesday and Wednesday here. Flash flooding concerns, where we highlighted in yellow, that's southern Tennessee, part of northern Mississippi, Alabama, and Georgia where we will pick up one to two inches of rainfall within the next 24 hours. 
 <br>[03:19:57]
 
But these are areas that have been drought driven here over the last few weeks and months, rather. For Tennessee, 95 percent of the state is under a drought, we are about to pick up close to five inches of rain in just within the next weeks' time. 
 
CHURCH:  All right, Britley Ritz, many thanks. I appreciate it. 
 
Well, tens of thousands of residents in one part of North Carolina are without power right now and could be for several days. The FBI has joined the investigation in what appears to be an act of sabotage. 
 
CNN's Gloria Pazmino has more. 
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  And we are learning a little bit more about what exactly went on in Moore County, what led to that massive power outage which has left 40,000 people without electricity. Moore County located about 90 miles east of Charlotte in North Carolina. 
 
And officials today confirming that they found gunfire had been shot into two substations in the area. That led to those substations failing and the power going out for thousands of people. We have also learned that a gate was removed off of its hinges, presumably as people, or this person who may be behind this, tried to gain access to the property. 
 
Now, the investigation is still very much on early stages, officials talking about how they believe this was a targeted and intentional act. But not much they can say so far about motive. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RONNIE FIELDS, SHERIFF, MOORE COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA:  No motivation, nobody's, no group has stepped up to acknowledge or accept that they are the ones that done it. So yes, I call them cowards. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Can you describe --
 
FIELDS:  I can say this, this individual that have done this, it was targeted, it wasn't random. 
 
PAZMINO:  Now as the investigation continues, local officials have instituted a mandatory curfew this evening in an effort to keep people off the roads. Traffic lights and traffic signals in the area are not working, so they are trying to keep the roads clear to avoid any kind of accident. Public schools also will be closed on Monday and officials are
 
 acknowledging that the damage that these two substations sustained could take days to repair. It is significant damage that will require equipment to be brought into the area. They said they believe it could be at least until Thursday until that property and machinery can be fixed. 
 
So, it is certainly a point of concern, considering it is very cold in the area and people will likely be without power for a few more days. 
 
In New York, Gloria Pazmino, CNN.
 
CHURCH:  And you saw Moore County speaking to the media in Gloria's report. He also addressed rumors that the attack was an attempt to stop a local drag show. The downtown divas performance was scheduled to start around the time that the power was cut. Fields says so far nothing points to a connection. 
 
In Columbus, Ohio, a drag queen story hour event for children was canceled due to threats of demonstrations by far-right protesters. This according to the city's mayor. The event, featuring three local drag queens, had been scheduled for Saturday at a Columbus church. One of the organizers of the event identify the protesters against the event as Proud Boys members. She said the story hour was canceled due to a disagreement on how the community should be best protected. And she said police ignored her groups concerns and would not provide adequate security. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHERYL RYAN, RED OAK COMMUNITY SCHOOL MANAGER:  The world is getting -- the world is getting more and more unsafe for the LGBTQ community. The attacks are constant and getting worse. The fact that we are not able to successfully host this simple event shows the extent of the damage that we have to do better. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Columbus police have this to say in a statement posted on Twitter. They said that the police protect all residents of the city equally and they will work to make sure that the LGBTQ community feel supported and protected at all events. 
 
Defending champions France sent Poland home from the World Cup with a three to one victory. You can see the French team celebrating in the locker room after another dominating performance. But the party didn't stop there. 
 <br>[03:25:06]
 
(CROWD CHEERING)
 
CHURCH:  The English team brought the party back to the hotel after the match, having defeated Senegal three-nil. They won it without star Raheem Sterling. Reports say that he is leaving Qatar after armed intruders broke into his home while his family were there. Patrick Snell has more now from Sunday's highlights on the pitch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR:  Only two countries in World Cup history have successfully defended their title. Italy in 1938 and Brazil in 1962. Will France in 2022 become the third. If the reigning world champs are to have any chance of doing so, they will have to get by England first in the quarterfinals. 
 
The three lines overcoming a shaky start on Sunday against African champion Senegal to take the lead shortly before halftime through Jordan Henderson in this last 16 battle after he was superbly set up by the outstanding young talent that is Borussia Dortmund's Jude Bellingham. 
 
And it was not too long before England skipper Harry Kane finally opens his accounts at this World Cup with a crisp finish for two-nil. Kane now just one behind Wayne Rooney's all-time record mark of 53 England goals. Then to (Inaudible) the English making the game safe, it's Bukayo Saka making no mistake with his country's third. Edouard Mendy well beaten there. England comfortable three, no winners in the end. 
 
And early on Sunday, defending champs France booking their place in the last days after beating Poland three-one. They blew ahead a 36- year-old Olivier Giroud who breaks the deadlock for the French just before the halftime break. That was his 52nd goal for his country and the AC Milan man now becoming France's old-time leading goal scorer surpassing the great Thierry Henry. 
 
Then just passed the 73-minute mark is the prolific Kylian Mbappe, making the game safe. And they blew a fourth of the tournament for the PSG superstar. At that point he also scored in the 2028 final in Russia against Croatia. And then before the end, how about this moment of brilliance for his fifth now. A tournament high fifth, three-one the final, Robert Lewandowski tucking away a penalty for the Polls. 
 
France gets the job done though; they advance to the quarterfinals. They face England next. As far as the race for the Covington Golden Boot is concerned, Mbappe himself doing a power of good by taking his tally to five for this World Cup. That's too clear up near his challenges with plenty of players on three, including his French teammate Giroud, and a certain Lionel Messi as well. 
 
KYLIAN MBAPPE, FRANCE FORWARD:  The only objective for me is to world win the World Cup, now to win the next game quarter final is the most important thing. And that's what I dream. The only thing I dream is this, for that I came here. I came to win this World Cup. I didn't come here to win the Golden Bowl or the Golden Boot. If I win it, of course I'm going to be happy, but that's not why I'm here. I'm here to win and I'm here to have the French national team. 
 
SNELL:  Well, a mouthwatering clash down as Mbappe and Kane go head- to-head in the quarterfinals next weekend. But have a look ahead to last 16 action the World Cup on Monday as well. We've got five-time champs Brazil taking on South Korea, with Neymar back in the available for selection. The 30-year-old apparently having recovered from that ankle injury suffered in Brazil's opening match. 
 
But for now, I'm going to send it right back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Thank you for that. Here's one more quick look as what's ahead today. First, Japan takes on 2018 runner up Croatia, and later number one ranked Brazil takes on South Korea. 
 
Well still to come, Russian forces concentrate their attacks on the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut. Why one Ukrainian official says the city is now their number one target.
 <br>[03:30:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  Welcome back, everyone. 
 
The European Union's ban on Russian oil imports shipped by sea has come into effect as western nations make moves to deprive the Kremlin of revenue amid the war in Ukraine. Also taking effect a price cap on Russian oil, the E.U. G7 nations and Australia agreed Friday to impose a price cap of $60 a barrel on oil shipped to other countries that have not adopted an embargo. Russia is reacting, saying the country will not export oil to countries that impose price caps.
 
And CNN's Clare Sebastian joins us now live from London. Good to see you, Clare. So, what more are you learning about these price caps on Russian oil? 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Rosemary, I think it's still too early to tell what exactly the impact of this is going to be, but this was clearly a measure designed to punish Russia. This is a sanction on Russia designed to limit their revenues from oil, which have actually been going up not down since the start of this war because of the disruption that the war ironically has caused to the global oil markets sending prices up. 
 
So, the west wanted to limit the amount of money that Russia can make from that key export, and funnel, of course into its war effort. But in doing so, the secondary sort of goal of this measure was to limit the impact to global oil markets, which of course have been in so much turmoil since the start of this war. 
 
That is why they set the price at $60, that is quite some way above what we believe to be the breakeven level for Russia only a little bit below the recent average for the Russian euro's oil variety. So, in theory, it should incentivize Russia to keep producing, not to take oil off the market leading to a price hike. 
 
But of course, it's controversial because it is only a little bit below what Russian euros oil has been trading for Many are including, Ukraine's President Zelenskyy are criticizing it for being too weak. And I think also, the jury is still out on how well this will do in terms of stabilizing oil markets. 
 
You can see oil is coming up a little bit this morning. Not too much. I think many are in a wait and see mode because if Russia does follow through on its threat not to ship oil to countries that comply with the cap, that could in theory lead to some rationale coming off the market.
 
At the same time, as we're seeing COVID restrictions potentially loosening in China leading to a rise in demand, and that could send prices up again. So, it's still too early to tell exactly what the impact is, but a lot of uncertainty around this, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  All right. Clare Sebastian bringing us the details there. I appreciate it. 
 
Well, at least 85 percent of the Ukrainian city of Kherson has electricity again, according to city officials. Power levels rose steadily throughout the week until Friday when shelling from Russian forces knocked it out momentarily. Ukraine's president says it's all part of Russia's plan to use the winter months as a weapon against Ukraine.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[03:35:00]
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator):  The enemy really hopes to use winter against us to make winter cold and hardship part of his terror. We have to do everything to endure this winter, no matter how hard it is, and we will endure. To endure this winter is to defend everything. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Ukrainian authorities say at least one person has been killed and three wounded in the past few hours in central Ukraine after three missiles strike an industrial area. The new attack comes amid other officials claiming the eastern city of Bakhmut has become the number one target of Russian forces. 
 
As part of the Donetsk region, the area has been the focus of escalating attacks by Russian forces. Military paramedics are doing their best to help wounded Ukrainian soldiers, but one man says their work can change in an instant.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IVAN, UKRAINIAN MILITARY PARAMEDIC:  This work is different because you have, very small period of very high casualties, and there are a lot of going on. This is very, very fast and all the battalions have casualties and you need to treat them fast. And it goes like one week and it's over. So, either we win or either we are forced to back.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And for more I'm joined now by Mick Ryan, a retired major general in the Australian army and author of "War Transformed: The Future of the 21st Century Great Power, Competition, and Conflict."
 
Thank you so much for being with us. 
 
MICK RYAN, RETIRED AUSTRALIAN ARMY:  Thanks, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  Well, nearly 10 months into this brutal war, what exactly has Russia achieved militarily compared to Ukraine, the nation id invaded, and where do things stand right now? 
 
RYAN:  Well, as things stand right now, the Ukrainians have seized the initiative of across Ukraine's battlefields. they have momentum and probably want to continue that momentum into the winter months. It's very unlikely they'll want that to bleed away by doing little over the winter months.
 
On the other hand, the Russians have achieved very little. They've seized and held around 15 percent currently of Ukraine's territory, but they're under pressure to hold that. And the influx of large numbers of mobilized troops over the winter may indeed end up being more of a problem for the Russian forces than an assistance to.
 
CHURCH:  And there are suggestions that Russia's weapons and ammunition are running low. What do you say to that? 
 
RYAN:  Well, both sides have gone through an extraordinary quantity of munitions, particularly artillery, which is the largest killer of soldiers on the battlefield in this war as it has been in previous wars, but also large numbers of precision weapons.
 
These are in great demand on both sides, and both the Ukrainians and the Russians are conserving these and stockpiling them for the offensives that are inevitable in 2023. 
 
CHURCH:  So, what needs to happen next when it comes to proving Russia's role in the murder, torture and rape of Ukrainian civilians, as well as the clear targeting of civilian areas and their critical infrastructure. And what will accountability look like, do you think? 
 
RYAN:  Well, there's a range of things that can be done. Firstly, we need to continue getting out the stories of what's going on. I mean, journalists are very important in this and we can't allow the Russians to do these things and no one know about them.
 
But we've also seen in Europe, certain organizations have now declared Russia a terrorist state, and we also need to ensure that we continually support the investigations in the litany of war crimes that the Russians have conducted during this war, and ensure they're followed up at some point in the future with proper trials.
 
CHURCH:  So, how does this war ultimately end, given Russia is cornered but determined to forge ahead while Ukraine fights on with little interest it seems in a negotiated peace? Where is the off ramp here? RYAN:  Well, there's only really two ways wars end, and it will be the
 
 same with this one. Firstly, one side suffers a catastrophic defeat, or both sides tire and come to some kind of negotiated agreement. Neither is certain in this war. I think there's a long way to go just yet. 
 
The Ukrainians have resisted negotiations at the moment, one, because they're of the upper hand, but at the moment, the Russians are not willing to negotiate in good faith or return Ukrainian territory. So, it would be very difficult for the government of Ukraine to negotiate on that basis. 
 
CHURCH:  So, until that happens and for however long that will take, what does Ukraine need in terms of weapons and infrastructure support to stop Russia from winning this war, and essentially putting democracy in jeopardy across Europe and beyond?
 <br>[03:40:07]
 
RYAN:  Well, it certainly needs the support of the west. That's essential to Ukraine's eventual victory in this war. And that includes not just military assistance, but humanitarian, economic, as well as the sanctions that are hindering Russia and hopefully will continue to hinder their war effort.
 
But political support and the support of millions of citizens around the world for Ukraine is very important to give the Ukrainians a sense that there is support there. It's important for morale, and we need to have strategic patience in the nations of the west to see this through. And hopefully that means Ukraine will come out winning this war and it will weaken Russia and weaken its appetite for such aggression in the future. 
 
CHURCH:  Mick Ryan, we thank you for your analysis. I appreciate it. 
 
RYAN:  Thank you. 
 
CHURCH:  Well, CNN has learned that China is running a large surveillance operation of its citizens living abroad. And some pro- democracy Chinese exiles say they feel threatened and fearful. We will have a report from London after a short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  The angry protests against China's harsh zero COVID policies appear to be getting results. Multiple cities eased some restrictions over the weekend. Residents of Shanghai no longer need a negative test to enter outdoor venues, including parks and scenic attractions. Shanghai and other cities also no longer require a negative test to ride public transportation, but many restrictions still remain, including at malls and office buildings in Beijing.
 <br>[03:44:56]
 
Back in 2019, activists in Hong Kong staged massive protests against efforts to curtail freedoms that were promised residents prior to the city's transfer to Chinese rule. Hundreds of thousands fled even before the official transfer. Now, some exile in the U.K. says the communist government is secretly trying to intimidate them into returning home. 
 
CNN's Nina dos Santos has the story from London.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NINA DOS SANTOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  For three years, Simon Cheng has called London home after fleeing a brutal clamp down on democracy in his native Hong Kong, he sought sanctuary in the U.K., but even here he says Beijing's tentacles are never far away. 
 
SIMON CHENG, PHONG KONG DISSIDENT:  Sometimes I received some threatening letters. He shows us an e-mail he received last year with a warning.
 
CHENG:  It said the Chinese agent would come to find you and take you back. It's just a matter of time. 
 
DOS SANTOS:  And then pictures of people he says have been following him. Like this man in Westminster and this car he spotted in multiple locations. Last year, Cheng says someone offered around $12,000 on WeChat to get hold of his address. 
 
Do you feel safe in the U.K. at the moment?
 
CHENG:  I don't think safe in the U.K. It's actually happening. The persecution happening on the British soil, and if you don't protect it, it only shows to the British public that even the government in here don't try to protect their judicial sovereignty and dignity. 
 
DOS SANTOS:  Last year, the U.K. opened up a pathway for more and more Hongkongers to gain citizenship on U.K. soil. And as more people continue to arrive here seeking shelter, the pressure is on for authorities to make sure that Hongkongers rights are protected. 
 
That issue came to a head last month after a Hong Kong pro-democracy protestor was assaulted on the grounds of the Chinese consulate in Manchester. After that, this warning to Great Britain.
 
YANG ZIAOGUANG, CHINESE EMBASSY SPOKESPERSON:  Protecting shelter to the Hong Kong demand elements will only in the end bring disaster to Britain. 
 
DOS SANTOS:  Now this NGO report says that Chinese police have been operating covertly from three addresses across the U.K. and elsewhere around the world, in part to pressure people to return home.
 
China says these centers help nationals with admin, like renewing driver's licenses and are staffed by volunteers. They say to suggest otherwise would be, quote, a smear. Either way, lawmakers are demanding urgent action. 
 
IAIN DUNCAN SMITH, BRITISH CONSERVATIVE M.P.:  People have fled to the U.K. because we believe in human rights, the rule of law and democracy so that they can have free speech. Hongkongers, many students came over in the BNO scheme. And what do they find when they come here? Chinese, unofficial police stations. That is shocking and under anybody's rule book should have been sorted out by now. 
 
DOS SANTOS:  CNN wasn't able to independently verify Simon Cheng's allegations, but we have heard multiple similar stories from other Hongkongers in the U.K.
 
Now, what do you think the objective of Chinese authority says? 
 
CHENG:  They try to silence us with fear. If we succumb to fear, the Chinese Communist Party will win. 
 
DOS SANTOS:  Nina dos Santos, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Coming up, calm amid controversy. How Prince William was able to focus on his initiative tackling environmental issues in the U.S. despite allegations of racism involving Buckingham Palace in the U.K.
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  U.S. President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden welcomed this year's Kennedy Center honorees to the White House. The first family hosted the honorees for a reception before Sunday night star- started event. 
 
Their guests included the members of the Rock band U2, singers, Gladys Knight and Amy Grant, actor George Clooney and composer Tania Leon. Biden praised each of them for their accomplishments and contributions to the arts.
 
Well, Britain's Prince William and Princess Catherine returned home over the weekend after wrapping up a U.S. trip. Their star-studded tour put the spotlight on the environment. But the royal visit may have been overshadowed by royal controversy. 
 
CNN's Max Foster explains. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRINCE WILLIAM, PRINCE OF WALES:  It's my hope the Earthshot legacy will continue to grow.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  And the beginning of another legacy for William and Catherine in their first overseas trip as the new Prince and Princess of Wales. Their three-day U.S. visit culminating in the second annual Earthshot Prize. 
 
DANIEL DAE KIM, ACTOR:  Welcome to Boston and the Earthshot Prize, the biggest environmental awards on the planet. 
 
FOSTER:  Prince Williams passion project where every year over a decade five winners from around the globe are awarded a million pounds to fund their creative solutions to the climate crisis.
 
But the trip was overshadowed by a controversy erupting back home. A senior royal aide resigning after Ngozi Fulani, a black charity executive shared her experience of being grilled about her heritage at a Buckingham Palace event. 
 
NGOZI FULANI, CEO AND FOUNDER, SISTAH SPACE:  I'm British and there's no debate about it. So then when she says, I knew eventually I would get where you come from.
 
FOSTER:  Buckingham Palace quickly called the remarks unacceptable. A spokesperson for Prince William also saying racism has no place in our society. 
 
PRINCE WILLIAM:  Although we thank you so much for your help.
 
FOSTER:  In Boston, it was a case of keeping calm and carrying on. William and Kate focusing on environmentalism and the inspiration behind the trip. 
 
PRINCE WILLIAM:  Sixty years ago, President John F. Kennedy's moonshot speech laid down a challenge to American innovation and ingenuity. It was that moonshot speech that inspired me to launch the Earthshot Prize and wear better to hold this year's award ceremony that in President Kennedy's hometown.
 <br>[03:55:08]
 
FOSTER:  William met with the late president's daughter and current U.S. ambassador to Australia, Caroline at the Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. Later, the Prince of Wales meeting with President Joe Biden, who was in the state for a fundraising event.
 
The couple also filled their time with a Celtics game and visits with environmental tech entrepreneurs. Also, Boston Harbor, as well as a non-profit supporting the disadvantaged youth. 
 
But the highlight of William and Catherine was Friday's star-studied Earthshot ceremony that included performances by Ellie Goulding and Annie Lennox. Oscar winner and one of the night's presenters, Rami Malek, applauding the princess' efforts to support those trying to find a solution to the climate crisis.
 
RAMI MALEK, ACTOR:  It's extraordinarily inspiring. I mean, he's finding answers in the one million pounds that are given to these five people, these five organizations is something that keeps us from looking at the gloom and doom.
 
FOSTER:  Max Foster, CNN, Boston.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And coming up in the next hour of CNN Newsroom, Max speaks with one of the Earthshot winners. Karan Khimji is the co-founder of 44.01 based in Oman. The company describes its work as eliminating CO2 by turning it in a rock, removing it from the atmosphere safely, efficiently, and permanently.
 
Find out more on CNN Newsroom with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo. That starts in just a few minutes from now.
 
Thank you so much for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. You can follow me on Twitter and Instagram at Rosemary CNN. Have yourselves a wonderful day.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[04:00:00]