Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Arizona Still Counting Ballots; Races Remain Uncalled in Nevada; Runoff in Georgia Senate Race; Control of Congress Still Undecided; Nicole Hits Florida. Aired 9-9:30a ET

Aired November 10, 2022 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:46] 
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning. I'm Erica Hill. 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR: And I'm Jim Sciutto. 
 
This morning we and the country still don't know yet who will control the U.S. Congress. Votes still being counted in critical House and Senate races. Republicans poised, however, to win a narrow majority in the House. There are currently 35 uncalled races in the lower chamber. Republicans leading in 11 of those. They need nine to retake the House majority. 
 
HILL: In the Senate, Republicans currently have 49 seats, Democrats are at 48, and control there now hinges on three states. Two of those, Nevada and Arizona, still too close to call this morning. Georgia is, of course, now headed to a December runoff after neither candidate managed to get 50 percent of the vote. 
 
Our correspondents are on the ground in Arizona and Nevada. Arizona, of course, for the battle for control of the -- those states where the battle for control of the Senate is playing out. 
 
Let's begin with CNN's Sara Sidner. She's in Phoenix, outside the Maricopa County Elections Center. 
 
So, the latest estimate, I believe, about 600,000 votes remain to be counted there. Where are those votes, Sara? 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Erica. 
 
Those votes, the majority of them, the vast majority of them, are from right here in Maricopa County, 400,000 to about 410,000 votes still left to be counted. And they will begin counting in about two hours. They will start verifying the signatures. There are a team of people that are in this place they call the ballot vault. We have been back there to see how they do their jobs. First they sort all the ballots and then they start verifying signatures. So that's why this process takes a little longer than maybe some other places. They are very diligent about doing this to make sure that they have the count correct. 
 
Now, earlier we heard from the chairman of the board of supervisors here in Maricopa County talking about the vote count and what we can expect. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BILL GATES, CHAIRMAN, MARICOPA COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS: We're right there between about 400,000 and 410,000 ballots left to count. We're now getting into what we call late earlies. These are early ballots that we would have been - that we would have received like over the weekend or in particular - in -- specifically 290,000 that were dropped off on Election Day at our vote centers. 
 
Generally, as we move forward in the count, we're getting closer and closer to Election Day. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: When he says closer and closer to Election Day, he means the ballots that were brought in on Election Day. They are still a few days back, counting those votes that are early voting. 
 
Now, I will tell you, that this has been a significant number increase. And the number of people who have voted in this midterm, according to officials here, we know that that number has jumped, which is making it so that the vote count is taking a little bit longer than normal.
 
But so far all is well. There were problems with the printers that people used. And what's interesting about the printers here is that people can come in without a ballot, they sign up, they show their ID, and then they have 12,000 different ballots that the printers are able to print. Some of those printers about -- in about a fifth of the places to vote, some of those printers were not printing dark enough ink and that was a problem so people had to do a couple of different things to make sure that their vote counts. But they said every vote will count, but you've got to give them some time. 
 
Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: Check the toner cartridges, right? 
 
Sara Sidner, thanks very much. 
 
SIDNER: I mean -- exactly. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. We've all been there. 
 
In Nevada, an estimated 160,000 votes remain to be counted there as crucial statewide races in Nevada still too close to call. Nevada could end up deciding who controls the Senate. 
 
CNN's Rosa Flores, she's in Las Vegas, fittingly, Rosa, right, because that's where the bulk of these votes that remain to be counted are, with a Democratic advantage, right? I mean is there any sense of where things are leaning in the next 24 to 48 hours? 
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You know what, Jim, this is a nail- biter because this race is only getting tighter and tighter. When you went to bed last night, Republican Adam Laxalt was ahead by 2.7 percent. When you woke up this morning, that margin tightened to 2.44 percent. 
 <br>[09:05:02]
 
Now, as Jim mentioned, the margins here in Clark County do appear to be in favor of the Democrat -- Democratic incumbent Catherine Cortez Masto. But, again, we will have to see. But all of these races are nail biters. 
 
It want to talk to you about the secretary of state race because that is even tighter. The challengers there are Cisco Aguilar, he's a former Harry Reid staffer. He has vowed for transparent elections. His opponent, Republican Jim Marchant, he is probably one of the sharpest election deniers in the country. He started the America First Secretary of State Coalition. They have about 12 members running in different states across the country. And their goal is day of elections only, day of voting only, and going back to paper ballots. Hear this, the margin in that race is less than 1 percent right now. It's at 0.89 percent. Again, nail biters. 
 
And, like Jim mentioned, there are still tens of thousands of ballots out there that have not been counted. They have not been processed. Many of those right here in Clark County, where I am.
 
And, Jim, as we look forward, some of the dates that we need to keep in mind here is the fact that any ballot that was postmarked on Election Day, November 8th, will be counted through Saturday, November 12th. And then, of course, the official - unofficial results are expected to be posted by law on Friday, November 18th. So, we'll have to see. 
 
Jim. 
 
HILL: So the waiting game continues, Rosa. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
HILL: Appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
SCIUTTO: Well, in Georgia, a runoff date is set, mark your calendars, December 6th. This, of course, after neither Senate candidate reached the 50-percent-plus-one threshold. And this race really could be the one that decides the balance of power in the Senate. 
 
SCIUTTO: Imagine that, Georgia again. 
 
CNN national politics reporter Eva McKend live in Atlanta this morning. 
 
All right, Eva, already making preps for this runoff here which could decide who controls the Senate. A lot of money going in. What's happening?
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER: There sure is, Jim. You know, this has really been a costly affair, this competitive Senate contest. Even more money pouring in this morning. We're learning that the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, that is a key operation -- fundraising operation for Senate Democrats, they're spending $7 million to boost Senator Warnock. And if you're wondering, well, where is that money going, it's going to things like field organizing. That's the critical ground game underway in this state. That is the effort to really turn out more voters, direct voter contact programs. 
 
Herschel Walker, for his part, is getting a boost as well. The group Susan B. Anthony Pro-life America, they have said that they are going to spend at least $1 million to help Walker. 
 
But things are well underway here in Georgia. The state is prepping ballots to be sent out to counties. Those counties have to sign off by November 14th. There's also the absentee portal that people can take advantage of if they want to request an absentee ballot. And then early voting could begin as early as November 26th. 
 
These candidates haven't taken any days off. Republican Herschel Walker, he's going to be campaigning later today with Senator Ted Cruz. 
 
Jim. Erica. 
 
SCIUTTO: Another tight race to watch. 
 
Eva McKend, thanks so much. 
 
So now for a deeper dive into the numbers behind these outstanding races in both Arizona and Nevada, CNN anchor John Berman at the magic wall.
 
John, we need some of that magic this morning because, I mean, the races are tight but we are getting some indications as to where the votes still to be counted might lean in either direction. What do you know?
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Well, we need magic and we need math, which, frankly, puts me at a disadvantage. But let me - let me do what I can, Jim, here.
 
Let's start with Nevada because this is really interesting. As Rosa reported, Adam Laxalt, the Republican, leads by 15,000 votes. Yesterday his lead was 23,000. Why? Because of mail ballot that was counted in Washoe County. In Washoe, there was 20,000 - there were 20,000 - I'll put 20k here, and Catherine Cortez Masto, the Democrat, won 65 percent of that vote. So that was in Washoe County. 
 
Now let's look at Clark County, which is by far the most populous county of the state. Nearly 75 percent. There were 14,000 new votes processed there, 14,000, and Catherine Cortez Masto, she won 61 percent of that. So that gave her the bounce to close some of that. 
 
And the reason I wanted to put these percentages up for you, Jim, and the raw numbers, is I want to extrapolate a little bit about what's left and whether she has a chance to overtake Adam Laxalt, that 15,000 vote gain. 
 
So, let me put the blackboard up here for everyone so they can see. In Washoe and Clark combined - and the reason I'm talking about those is, those are the more urban counties. 
 <br>[09:10:03]
 
And, frankly, that's where most of the vote that we know about is left. We think there's 110,000 votes left. If Catherine Cortez Masto wins 60 percent of that, which is actually a little bit less than she did in those votes that were processed overnight, so times 60 percent. or 0.60 in this case, that would give her 66,000 votes. OK. 
 
The important thing here, Jim, and I'll erase this, that would give her 66,000 votes, is that would be a net -- a net of 22,000 votes. And 22,000 is greater than 15,000. So, if the next 110,000 votes go the way that the ones that were processed overnight does, Catherine Cortez Masto has a chance. She's on a path that could put her out in front. 
 
And, very quickly -- let me swipe this out -- it's a little bit of a similar situation in Arizona, where the Democrat, Mark Kelly, now leads by 95,000. His lead was in the 80s before they processed new ballots for Maricopa County here and Pima County here. His lead grew. There's 560,000 votes left to process here. A little bit harder to read which way they lean because Arizona does things a little bit differently. But Blake Masters, the Republican, would have to win 58 percent, roughly, of that remaining vote to overtake Mark Kelly. Not impossible, but it would be a tall order, Jim. 
 
SCIUTTO: Personally, and I'm sure Erica joins me in this, I'm glad you slowed that math down. It helped me understand. So, we - we will keep calling you back.
 
HILL: You know, speak for yourself, Sciutto. I followed it all. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. OK, sorry.
 
HILL: In fact, I fed Berman that math before -
 
SCIUTTO: You were ahead of him. Sorry, that's what I should have said, you were ahead of Berman.
 
John, thanks so much. 
 
Coming up next, an unflattering cover of former President Trump on the normally Trump friendly "New York Post." Details on the calls inside the GOP for Trump to now step aside, even as he plans another bid for the White House. 
 
Plus, a CNN exclusive, new reporting, Russian Navy vessels seen preparing for a possible test of a new nuclear-powered torpedo. What I'm learning from U.S. officials. That's coming up. 
 
HILL: And next we're live in Florida as Tropical Storm Nicole moves across the state, still packing 60-mile-per-hour winds. Thousands without power. Some seaside homes have simply crumbled into the ocean. We're going to bring you the latest track. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Collapsed into the ocean.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:16:37]
 
SCIUTTO: President Biden, he celebrated the Democrats' performance in the midterms in a speech yesterday calling out detractors who said doubted his, quote, incessant optimism about the election. 
 
HILL: Those comments come even as Biden's presidency looks likely to enter a new period of divided government. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: While we don't know all the results yet, at least I don't know them all yet, here's what we do know, while the press and the pundits are predicting a giant red wave, it didn't happen. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: When asked if he had made a decision about running for re- election, the president said his intention remains o run again but he's not in a hurry to make an announcement. 
 
Joining us now to discuss, CNN political commentators. Ashley Allison, former national coalitions director for Biden-Harris 2020, and Alice Stewart, Republican strategist. 
 
Good to see you both this morning. 
 
Ashley, let's start with you. 
 
When we look at all this, the president's still making a decision on 2024. Understandably he wants to wait and see how certain things shake out. But there are definitely some takeaways here for Democrats as a whole. How do they need to play the next two years? 
 
ASHLEY ALLISON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Keep trying to get things done. I think that the reason why voters showed up was that Democrats made promises in 2020 and they did everything possible to keep them. Now, they couldn't get voting rights done and they couldn't get policing reform done, but it wasn't for lack of trying. It was because they didn't have enough votes in the Senate. But they did get infrastructure. They did get a lot of Covid relief. They did get a historical bipartisan gun bill passed. And they're - then they took action on the executive level around student loan debt and around marijuana and around climate. And so as long as Dems keep delivering what the voters want, I think we will be successful again in 2024. 
 
I also think that if Republicans show up, if they take the House and start shenanigans and throwing red meat out about trying to do all these oversight hearings, that's not what the people want. And they said that loud and clear. So, Dems should just keep their eye on the ball and keep delivering for the American people. 
 
SCIUTTO: Alice, listening to that, I imagine you have a different view. You have criticized some of the more extreme voices in your party here. But, I mean, is there a risk? Yes. They certainly outperformed expectations. And particularly extreme Republican candidates ended up losing, including a lot that were endorsed by the former president. But do Democrats risk not learning their own lessons from this election? 
 
ALICE STEWART, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: They -- both sides have a lot to learn from this election, Jim. And I think the most important takeaway is that voters are frustrated. They're frustrated with the economy and they want to see Washington work together. 
 
I'm encouraged by what President Biden said yesterday, but saying that our democracy is intact. And that's evidenced by the fact we had massive voter turnout. And we need to continue to wait and make sure every vote is counted. 
 
I'm also encouraged by his commitment to bringing leaders from both sides of The Hill to the White House shortly and talk about ways they can work together. And assuming that Republicans take control in the House, that's a major step in the right direction. And this is a way we get things done. Assuming Republicans take control and McCarthy is the speaker, they have an agenda they'd like to get done, ways to look at addressing inflation, look at the border, look at crime. And the best way to do that is, as the president said, sitting down and having these hard conversations. 
 <br>[09:20:05]
 
But the first step in bipartisanship is both sides agreeing that you have to concede certain points that you want, and you both have to want to work together. And that's the - that's the message everyone should take away from these midterms. 
 
HILL: Alice, in "The Wall Street Journal" this morning, the note, maybe the defeats are what the party needs to hear before 2024, talking specifically about Donald Trump from the editorial board. Do -- is this the moment that the party moves on from Donald Trump? Is this the license that was needed, and is the will there? 
 
STEWART: I don't see any other moment than right now for Republicans to recognize the fact that we lost the House, the Senate and the White House, and we lost many key races we should have won because of Trump's influence in these races. And "The Wall Street Journal," which is typically supportive of the former president, acknowledged the fact that Trump's dominance has taken a hit. And we're seeing other news outlets. We have "The New York Post" that is very supportive with the front headline today saying, "Trumpty Dumpty," saying he couldn't build a wall and couldn't really keep his party closely aligned. And other key voices saying that, again, Donald Trump is not the face moving forward for the Republican Party. Peter King, who has been supportive, saying, we need to go -- stop being a cult of personality and get back to a party of policies. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
STEWART: And I think this is a good first step. It's a huge wake-up call for the Republican Party. 
 
SCIUTTO: So, Ashley, you hear Alice making the case there Trump should not be the face of the Republican Party going into 2024. Should Joe Biden be the face and the candidate for the Democratic Party going into 2024? 
 
ALLISON: I think there's two sides to this coin. Joe Biden has had a great presidency so far. He still has two more years to deliver. There also is an opportunity for him to pass the torch if he chooses to. And we, as Democrats, want to make sure we have a strong bench. And I actually think this midterm election opens up our bench somewhat for new and aspiring Democratic leaders, whether it's the new governor of Massachusetts or Maryland or Michigan. I think that there are opportunities for a torch to be passed, a generational torch, so to say. 
 
SCIUTTO: Wow.
 
ALLISON: But I also think, if he wants to run, he is up for the job, and that's his choice. 
 
STEWART: And, Jim, if I can just add one quick note on the -- Trump's dominance of the party. Look, we all have to acknowledge that he did build a solid base. And those votes are important. These are people that didn't feel they have a voice. 
 
SCIUTTO: Right.
 
STEWART: So, the challenge is for Republicans to keep that base on board and grow from that and make sure that we do so as an inclusive party and not try to alienate any aspect of Republicans. 
 
HILL: Ashley Allison, Alice Stewart, good to see you both this morning. Thank you. 
 
STEWART: Thanks.
 
ALLISON: Thank you. 
 
HILL: And just a reminder, our colleague, Jake Tapper, will have a lot to ask Mike Pence about the future of the Republican Party. That's all going to happen in a town hall next Wednesday night right here on CNN. That live event with the former vice president, 9:00 p.m. Eastern. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. Will he challenge Trump? Open question. 
 
Still ahead, Tropical Storm Nicole churning over Florida right now after making landfall this morning as a category one hurricane. We're going to have the latest forecast, also go to Florida live, coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:28:12]
 
SCIUTTO: Another big story we're following, right now Tropical Storm Nicole pounding Florida with heavy rain and powerful winds, causing storm surge warnings along the northeastern coastline. The storm made landfall as a category one hurricane early this morning, making it the first hurricane to hit the U.S. in November in nearly 40 years. 
 
HILL: And it is making its presence known. 
 
CNN's Leyla Santiago live in Titusville, Florida, this hour. Meteorologist Chad Myers is live in the CNN Weather Center.
 
Leyla, let's start with you. What are you seeing there? I saw you just a minute ago in the break and I definitely say that hurricane stance, which tells me those are some pretty strong winds. 
 
LEYLA SANTIAGO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right. I think this is the strongest wind I've felt since we've been out this morning kind of making our way north. Earlier we were in Melbourne. Now we're in Titusville. 
 
Let's take a walk. Let's show you what it looks like out here in terms of the water that is rising. You can see the wind really showing in the trees. The water coming in. And this is an area, we should mention, that saw really bad flooding after Hurricane Ian. So, an area that was already vulnerable given the flooding that we saw just six weeks ago here. 
 
So, I have spoken to emergency operation officials. They're really warning people to stay home because this isn't over yet, especially in those areas where coastal erosion has been deemed an issue. Just north of where we are right now, in Volusia County, they have deemed dozens of homes as unsafe given the coastal erosion. So, the big thing they're watching is for flooding, for the high tide that's bringing in higher levels of water, as well as the impact this will have for coastal erosion as they get out to do damage assessment. 
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
But you can tell, and I can certainly feel, that this is far from over. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, a lot of homes there in danger on the coastline.