Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Spotlight on Egypt's Human Rights Record; Polls Open Across Most of the U.S. on Election Day; Ukrainians try to Move Forward after Heartbreaking Losses; Theme of "Loss and Damage" Front and Center; Iran Football Federation: Players who Protested will be "Dealt with"; Prolonged Drought Causing Death & Hunger in Horn of Africa. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired November 08, 2022 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: I'm Becky Anderson at COP 27 in Sharm el-Sheikh. Hello and welcome back to the second half of our 
 
 special climate coverage here on "Connect the World".
 
All world leaders gathered here in Egypt face a double barreled problem as it were, finding ways to reduce what experts say are record setting 
 
 greenhouse gas emissions pouring into our atmosphere and agreeing on ways to pay for the devastating damage wrought by climate catastrophes that are 
 
 increasing in number and indeed increasing in severity.
 
On the first issue, a warning today from the UN Secretary General about what he calls Net Zero green washing, Antonio Guterres says the world must 
 
 not tolerate bogus net-zero pledges to cover up massive fossil fuel expansion.
 
On the second issue, the demand for climate justice, there's a palpable sense of frustration from developing nations about when or even if the so 
 
 called loss and damage compensation fund will actually ever happen.
 
We're going to hear from Kenya's President on that in a few moments. But there are other global issues coming to focus here in Egypt, including 
 
 calls to release the British Egyptian Writer and Activist Alaa Abd El- Fattah, who is currently on hunger strike in a Cairo Prison. David McKenzie back with me this hour. You've talked to Alaa's sister, what did she say?
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is an issue that you can't help but with such high profile meetings here in Egypt 
 
 to take the lens of focus onto the human rights record of this government.
 
I was at an emotional press conference of his sister Sanaa Seif now there was a parliamentarian there from Egypt. We had to be manhandled out of 
 
 there by UN Security because he accused the family of having double standards because last year, the well-known activist received British 
 
 citizenship while in prison.
 
He was arrested again after nearly a decade in prison on national security charges. But supporters his family, even the Head of the UN Human Rights 
 
 Council say these are trumped up charges. They say he needs to be released immediately.
 
His sister was understandably emotional many more than 200 days into a hunger strike. He's taken even further steps to try and get his voice 
 
 heard. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANAA SEIF, ABD EL-FATTAH'S SISTER: So we have not yet been defeated. But right now, all we know is that Alaa stopped drinking water 50 hours ago, we 
 
 don't know where he is. We don't know if he's alive. My mother waited outside the prison gates for 10 hours yesterday for her weekly letter. They 
 
 didn't give her one. She's back at those gates right now. I asked the British authorities to get us some proof that Alaa is alive and conscience. 
 
 I did not get any response.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKENZIE: Well, she was in these meetings, so at least they align her to speak. But you do get the sense of the frustration of this family of rights 
 
 activists, and there has been a lot of solidarity Becky, between climate activists and social justice activists here in Egypt, but it's a matter of 
 
 life and death.
 
They don't know where he is. He started this water and hunger strike. His mother was waiting outside of the prison. No sense of that. We went to the 
 
 Foreign and Commonwealth Office of the UK to again ask them is there any movement in this?
 
They said, reminding us that there was the meeting with the UK Prime Minister and Egyptian authorities and the President. I think the next few 
 
 days will be critical in whether he'll be released back to the UK or just disappear.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, this is a new Prime Minister, Rishi Sunak of the UK, as you rightly say, holding a meeting where this was discussed, at least, with the 
 
 President here. David, thank you! Well, as the world's attention has been focused on the climate conference here in Sharm el-Sheikh so too has, as 
 
 David points out, has criticism over Egypt's human rights record, especially Alaa's case.
 
Well, last hour you heard my interview with Egypt's Foreign Minister and COP 27 President. I also asked him if Abd El-Fattah will ever be released, 
 
 here's what he said.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAMEH SHOUKRY, EGYPITIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: This is a judicial matter. And my understanding is that he has been convicted and is currently fulfilling 
 
 his jail term. And any recourse to judicial process is, of course available if time limitations still exists. I have no direct answer to your question.
 
ANDERSON: He could die while the British Prime Minister is here, should he not be released and given consular access?
 
SHOUKRY: I believe that within the Penal Code, there is a constant review of medical conditions for all inmates and that the necessary health care is 
 
 provided. So I think there might be a misconception as relates his actual status. Again, I believe within the penal system, there are regulations 
 
 that provide for the best interests and the health of all inmates.
 
ANDERSON: The Former British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson has said here that he should be freed and given consular access. I have to press you on 
 
 this is that likely?
 
SHOUKRY: I hardly think that that is a pressure. It's a legitimate question. I can speak on behalf of Former Prime Minister Johnson. I can't 
 
 speak on what others have in terms of conviction. All I can say is that this is a judicial matter here.
 
The person in question has had a fair trial has had legal representation, and has been convicted by an impartial court. As any legal system, there 
 
 should be a respect of the judicial system that is, I think, the issue of the separation of powers that we should all adhere to.
 
ANDERSON: He is the British and the British government is asking for his release, is that likely?
 
SHOUKRY: Well, my understanding again, is that he has not applied to be recognized by the Egyptian government as being a British citizen. His 
 
 citizenship was conferred while he was serving his sentence. And there is a procedure within our rules and regulations and laws for any Egyptian who 
 
 acquires dual nationality to fulfill so that the government will recognize or else it becomes a loophole for anyone to commit a crime and then contend 
 
 that because he is a dual nationality.
 
ANDERSON: It doesn't sound as if you have you're holding out any hope on behalf of the British Prime Minister that he would be released.
 
SHOUKRY: I have really no information other than this is a judicial matter, matter of law. And for any concern, they should refer to the situation from 
 
 that perspective.
 
ANDERSON: In recent months, COP 27 has come under criticism for Egypt's human rights record. Rights group say that over 90 people have been 
 
 arrested in recent days, while some have been released, others remain locked up. So how do you respond to these criticisms?
 
SHOUKRY: Well, I respond that we have a very transparent dealing with the issues of human rights. We have very in depth dialogue with many of our 
 
 partners. We participate very effectively in the Human Rights Council and other UN organizations.
 
But we deem that this is a COP of the party is dealing with climate change. And we hope that the issues are not confused that we do not detract from 
 
 one for the sake of the other.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: The COP 27, President and Egyptian Foreign Minister speaking to me earlier. And more on what is growing let me start that, again. More on 
 
 what is the growing frustration over the demand for climate justice here.
 
African nations like Kenya are experiencing record drought, which is leading to famine and they are calling on the richer nations of the world 
 
 to implement - finally implement what is known as a loss and damage fund that would address these climate change catastrophes. And in his opening 
 
 speech on Monday, Kenya's President William Ruto said, the wait for help has been going on far too long.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILLIAM RUTO, KENYAN PRESIDENT: Loss and damage is not an abstract topic of endless dialogue. It is our daily experience and the living nightmare of 
 
 millions of Kenyans and hundreds of millions of Africans.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, I talk with William Ruto about what are the desperate conditions facing many in his country right now and what is needed to help 
 
 have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RUTO: Two days ago I was in the northern part of Kenya where we are intervening because of food insecurity.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
RUTO: We have to provide food stuffs for 4.3 million Kenyans who are facing that starvation because we have the worst drought in 40 years. We have - 
 
 we've had three or four consecutive years of failed rain. And as a result, we have to allocate resources, men, for hospitals, men for drugs, in 
 
 hospitals, men for education of our children, to be able to feed the population.
 
For the first time in the history of our country we are forced to feed wildlife, elephants, and lions. And it is something that we have never 
 
 seen. The reality of climate change is here with us. It's not in the future it is in the present.
 
ANDERSON: So what are the priorities here? Certainly, there are two things that are in focus here. One is the concern about the industrialized world 
 
 reneging on its commitments made back in 2015, to ensure that there is $100 billion annually to help out the developing world.
 
The other is the very contentious issue of loss and damage, ensuring that those countries that are affected most by emissions that have created 
 
 climate crisis are compensated. Let's start with loss and damage. What do you believe is realistic at this point?
 
RUTO: I think the fact that we have loss and damage in the agenda is a step in the right direction. It may be a small step. But that's the beginning of 
 
 a journey of 1000 kilometers paths with one step. We are one step in and what we are living?
 
We have lost, for example, 2.5 million heads of livestock in Kenya this year alone, that's about $1.5 billion down the drain. I think the more the 
 
 world gets to understand that loss and damage is not a conversation. It is a reality. People are living it.
 
And I think more and more leaders are beginning to appreciate that it's time for action. And that is why I appreciate, though in a small way that 
 
 this COP in Africa has been labeled the implementation code. And I hope that it will be.
 
ANDERSON: Do you worry that geopolitical headwinds are resulting in the West, potentially reneging on commitments that it's made in the past 
 
 financially to poor nations. Is it a concern?
 
RUTO: Of course, it is a concern. Of course, because we are living the nightmare of climate change and its ravaging effects on our population, on 
 
 our livestock, on our wildlife, on humanity in our continent, are a huge source of concern.
 
And it is our concerted effort that we are not about to give up. We will be on this until the world wakes up until the development the developing 
 
 nations wake up to this reality because shortly it will catch up with them. It's just a question of time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, that's the Kenyan President William Ruto. Fascinating, isn't it? Well, up next, Joe Biden and Donald Trump may not be on the 
 
 ballots. But today's midterm elections in the United States could say a lot about how Americans feel about both of them?
 
Well, also ahead Ukrainians in the city of Irpin are rebuilding their homes and trying to mend their hearts after Russia's failed attempt to take the 
 
 suburb near the capital. A live report on that is coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, right now voters in the United States are headed to the polls in what appears to be very close midterm elections they will be 
 
 picking all 435 members of the House and 35 seats in the Senate. These races will determine which party controls Congress for the next two years.
 
Now that vote could have major implications for the current President Joe Biden, with Republicans vowing to launch investigations of him if they get 
 
 control of the House. The vote is also seen as a bit of a referendum on Donald Trump as many Republican candidates were hand-picked by him because 
 
 they backed his claim of the 2020 election was rigged.
 
One of the closest senate races is in Pennsylvania. And that's where CNN's Jason Carroll is, today. We are in the thick of it at this point, any word 
 
 and how turnout is going so far in Pennsylvania.
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Turnout is brisk all across the state Becky, especially here where we are in Bensalem. It's Lower Bucks County, 
 
 this is basically a suburb of Philadelphia. And to give you just sort of an explanation as to why this area is so important, it's because this is a 
 
 suburb, this is a county that is just loaded with swing voters.
 
And these are the types of voters that could end up making the difference in the senate race, which is basically a toss-up, it's just too close to 
 
 call. This is why both candidates have focused on really trying to get these types of voters in their camp. And so we talked to them about the 
 
 issues that mattered most to them.
 
And as you can imagine, here in the United States here in the state of Pennsylvania, the issues that matter most to them at the top of the list, 
 
 crime, the economy and a woman's right to choose.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRITTANY CASTOR, PENNSYLVANIA VOTER: I know from previous years I've swung both ways. It really depends on what the person stands for. That's what I 
 
 vote for.
 
CARROLL: But this go around a woman's right to choose drove you to the pool.
 
CASTOR: Absolutely.
 
CARROLL: OK. And again, you identify as Republican, but this is the issue that --speaking to you.
 
CASTOR: This one has stood out to me the most.
 
WILLIAM CASTELBERG, JR., PENNSYLVANIA VOTER: Crime is a big, you know, it's really big in the city of Philadelphia. I would hate to see it come to the 
 
 suburbs here in Bucks County. The second thing is inflation. You know, there are so many people they can't afford day to day. It's sad.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CASTOR: And so just to give you a sense of how much interest has been in this particular senate race, here in the state $260 million in the ad 
 
 spending spent by both of the candidates fits it's by two former presidents stumping for each candidate, one for John Fetterman, the Democrat, the 
 
 other for Dr. Mehmet Oz, the Republican.
 
So a lot of interest in this particular race, it's going to be at this point a toss-up not expecting results to come in tonight or possibly even 
 
 tomorrow morning, Becky. But as you can imagine, a lot of folks are going to be focused on the returns coming in from right here from where I'm 
 
 standing in Bensalem and Lower Bucks County, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Jason, thank you. Folks, do be sure to join CNN later today. We will have in-depth special coverage of what are these crucial U.S. midterm 
 
 elections; they will determine control of congress. This is important stuff; you would expect nothing less from CNN. Our coverage starts 4 p.m. 
 
 Washington DC that's London time 9 p.m.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
ANDERSON: Its 11 if you're watching here in Egypt and wherever you are watching in the world, you will work the times out for yourself locally. 
 
 Well, a rare display of defiance by Russian troops in a letter set to be from its soldiers on the frontlines in eastern Ukraine.
 
Troops from an elite Russian marine unit say they were thrown into an incomprehensible battle in the Donetsk region and that as many as 300 
 
 troops were killed or wounded, with others still missing. Now, Moscow's Ministry of Defense is denying any Heil, "Pointless, casualty counts".
 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy referred to that intense combat in his nightly video address saying that the Donetsk region remains the 
 
 epicenter of what he called the biggest madness of the occupiers. Well, just outside of Kyiv, Irpin was called a hero city after Ukrainian forces 
 
 stopped a Russian advance on the Capitol in the first month of the war.
 
Reconstruction in that suburb has taken on a new sense of urgency with winter, obviously on its way in a failing national power grid. But 
 
 rebuilding homes will be easier than repairing hearts, traumatized by the brief Russian occupation. CNN's Christiane Amanpour has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): On the outskirts of Kyiv, the bridge into Irpin in the Bucha district was a 
 
 lifesaver for those who managed to flee the early Russian advance. In the seven months since these scenes the horrors of what those troops left 
 
 behind have been fully exposed.
 
Mykhailyna, the Deputy Mayor of the Bucha region is taking us to meet residents who are rebuilding. But throughout this heavily destroyed 
 
 residential area, it's a race against winter. As temperatures start to plunge and blackouts continue, money is tight, but spirits are high.
 
At the very least, they need to replace glass in the windows and patch up holes the size of tank and artillery rounds. Tatiana shows us pictures of 
 
 her apartment small bedroom, destroyed in March, rebuild now. Her story is hair rising and miraculous hunkering down in the basement for 10 days under 
 
 Russian occupation. This is the picture of the Russian tanks arriving just 15 minutes after she fled.
 
When we left they were shooting at us from behind she tells me, now I realized what kind of a second birthday I got. What kind of a gift because 
 
 those people who left right after us were shot. As this city tries to put the pieces back together again, there's another more sensitive, perhaps 
 
 even more difficult kind of rebuilding underway.
 
The UN Children's Fund UNICEF has placed pop-up tents full of warmth, light and care. All these children have been traumatized and some have been 
 
 forced to witness unspeakable horrors. This is Bucha district after all ground zero for Russia's war crimes. Eugene Lopatin is the regional manager 
 
 for this program.
 
EUGENE LOPATIN, UNICEF REGIONAL MANAGER: They started to tell some really cool things. I cannot even describe how cruel they were. Some people some 
 
 children saw invaders, raping their mother or beaten their father.
 
AMANPOUR (voice over): Kisenya (Ph) volunteers as a psychologist here seeing parents whose children have had to hide with them in silence or 
 
 spend long periods with no bathroom breaks. And the body remembers this and even after reaching safety, the child cannot go to the toilet she says it's 
 
 the same with speech.
 
The parents have told them to keep quiet so the child closes its mouth and does not know when they can talk again. And so they turn to these kinds of 
 
 games and Katarina, the volunteer art therapist says she sees them gradually come out of their shells and start to smile and connect again.
 
They seem to forget about their inner stress when they're making something like this says Katerina. Back in the construction zone Mykhailyna has her 
 
 own harrowing story of loss and recovery. She says her first husband was killed in Donbas during the first Russian invasion in 2014.
 
MYKHAILYNA SKORYK, DEPUTY MAYOR, BUCHA CITY COUNCIL: Like one you lost, lost your beloved, you have to find a new motivation how to live, how to go 
 
 in on, how to feel alive again. So when I thought what would motivate me to live I decided that look, I'd like to have a boy. And boy called Flip as my 
 
 first husband wanted and I've met another man and realize that plan you know.
 
AMANPOUR (on camera): That's fantastic.
 
AMANPOUR (voice over): Christiane Amanpour, CNN, Irpin Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
ANDERSON: Meanwhile, the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations says Ukrainian farmers are desperate. She said that after a visit to a grain 
 
 facility in Kyiv. Today she was talking about the Black Sea grain export deal, under perilous Moscow suspended and then rejoined the deal.
 
Well, Chief International Anchor, Christiane Amanpour sat down for an interview with Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield and she joins me now live 
 
 from Kyiv. And just walk me through what you discussed if you will.
 
AMANPOUR: Becky, there's been a slew of American top level officials who've been here to Kyiv in the last few days to see as Ambassador Linda Thomas-
 
 Greenfield did the grain and the flower area there today to see some forensic areas where they are processing investigation and forensic 
 
 evidence on war crimes.
 
But also to try to reassure Ukraine that no matter what happens in the United States in these elections, that the U.S. will still be here. This is 
 
 part of our discussion.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMANPOUR: Ambassador, we're sitting here right on the day of the midterms in your country, and I don't ask you to weigh in politically. But as you 
 
 know, there has been some suggestion that there might be Ukraine fatigue, given the energy costs, given the pain of every country's you know, citizen 
 
 citizenry, et cetera. Europe is having a really hard time.
 
Do you believe that this could chip away at the united front for continued sanctions against Russia could chip away at the support for Ukraine around 
 
 the world?
 
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD, U.S. AMABASSADOR TO THE U.N.: Christiane, we have been unified from day one and we've not seen any cracks in that unity. 
 
 Europe is unified, NATO is unified. We've had bipartisan support in the United States for support for Ukraine. Our support is unwavering. And we 
 
 will continue to be unified until Ukraine wins this war and Russia takes their troops out of Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
AMANPOUR: So on, couple of issues there, Becky, of course, you know, we've been talking about Donbas a bit but obviously a lot of eyes are on Kherson, 
 
 the vital port city to the south, which is really important to both sides. There is no full frontal counter offensive yet launched by Ukraine.
 
But people expected at some time we just don't know when and is presumably whether determined and whether they can get there when the ground is hard 
 
 enough to be able to use the armored and the track vehicles.
 
On the other issue, of course, is these rolling blackouts of Kyiv and the northern city of Kharkiv are the most affected by those weeks of Russian 
 
 missile and kamikaze drone attacks on the energy sector.
 
There haven't been those attacks in the last few days and the rolling blackouts continue. But authorities are saying that if it is, you know, 
 
 free of attacks for the next two weeks, they probably will be able to get the grid fully back up and working again, Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Christiane, I just want to refer back to what the ambassador said to you. And I think she will hope that this united front, both in Europe 
 
 and in the U.S. with g7 countries as well, will hold. But we have frankly seen some fissures not deep enough cracks deep enough to count necessarily 
 
 yet.
 
But obviously the big question at this point is how long does that unity go on? How long must it go on? Because at this point, there is no end in 
 
 sight, it seems, is that where we are at? All right, unfortunately the technology gremlins have led us down there, but good to hear from 
 
 Christiane there in Ukraine. All right, we will take a very short break, back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson. You're with us here in Sharm el-Sheikh and you are watching "Connect the World". Well, if you've been 
 
 watching our coverage from here at COP27 and I hope you have, you'll know that the issue of loss and damage has been front and center here.
 
Many have built this the African cop in an effort to support African countries. After all they pump very little pollution into the environment, 
 
 but often bear the biggest burden of the climate crisis. Well, during today's show, you've been hearing part of my interview with the COP27 
 
 President who is also the Egyptian Foreign Minister. Here's more from Sameh Shoukry about the significance of hosting a summit that the whole world is 
 
 watching.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHOUKRY: It provided an opportunity economic, but at the same time in dealing with the challenges of climate change. And we believed we were set 
 
 to also be able to give higher voice to Africa, to do this in Africa and to have this sort of representation by African States. And then provide the 
 
 venue for the Africans to convey their expectations and their willingness to deal with this issue and undertake their share.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, a shift in wealth is crucial to bridge this gap that we've been talking about. One way to get the money required is through a regional 
 
 lender known as a Multilateral Development Bank or MDB. Speaking to key players here in Egypt, it's clear those banks and organizations like the 
 
 need to reform their financing rules to cope with the realities of loss and damage.
 
I spoke with the Head of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank just hours ago need details, how he is planning for that future.
 
JIN LIQUN, PRESIDENT, ASIA INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT BANK: We are all for reform. But please keep in mind, this bank was created in the 21st century 
 
 on the basis of experience of old MDBs, which were created over the last seven decades. So we benefit from experience of the other MDBs and we also 
 
 try to have some innovative features.
 
So this bank could be lean, clean and green. Lean means we will be cost effective. Clean, anti-corruption, corruption free, green, we promote green 
 
 economy. And so we have also you see it's global. It's for growth. It's highlighting governance and it's green. So as a new institution, we have 
 
 already learned from the peer institutions. That's the--
 
ANDERSON: So give me example of what the AIIB is doing as organized today and not without reform. What it's doing to help promote the adoption of 
 
 clean energy.
 
LIQUN: First of all, as you see we are only seven years into operation ad we have financed a roughly $36 billion leveraging more money.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
LIQUN: Already 48 percent of financing is for climate change mitigation adaptation already 48. And our objective is by 2025, at least the 50 
 
 percent financing for climate change and Paris alignment.
 
ANDERSON: Well, rather than wait, one man has made it his mission to help those countries most at risk. Three time NBA champion Rick Fox, excuse me 
 
 is the driving force of a new housing project in the Bahamas, which sustainable building material is at the heart.
 
Well he joined me and said earlier, he provided some insight into the practicalities and indeed realities of procuring that all important 
 
 funding.
 
RICK FOX, FORMER NBA PLAYER: We don't want to be a CapEx ex-intensive solution. But it is a reality of innovation. When you're looking to bring 
 
 technology like this to the world, you need partners; you need individuals that are willing to join in the financing of these matters.
 
You talk about lost and damaged countries are here, in some cases - asking for help. I believe people are more inclined to help those that help 
 
 themselves. And when you're not waiting for others to solve your problems and you're able to get out there and create solutions yourself. I think 
 
 you'll find more collaborative conversations in the area of financing.
 
ANDERSON: You're absolutely right. How scalable is this briefly?
 
FOX: Very scalable. You can go to partanna.com. And take a look at it, we tell you everything about the science, will scale as fast as the world will 
 
 call on us. So we invite you this is our invitation. Please reach out.
 
If you're a country, if you're a developer that wants to change the way we build in the world, 38 percent of our emissions come from the construction 
 
 industry and 9 percent coming from cement and we're an alternative bonding solution to that we provide a way forward. That's nature positive 
 
 regenerative building materials. Can you imagine that? It's all possible.
 
ANDERSON: Right, as we've been telling you, it is Election Day in America. Voters will determine who controls both chambers of Congress. Republicans 
 
 confront they can take both houses partially because Democrats are on the defensive over inflation and President Joe Biden's approval ratings are 
 
 low. Some voters just want results.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I just want to see some change. Make sure we keep democracy safe, know that votes get counted properly and just elect people 
 
 that are going to help regular everyday citizens.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, Wisconsin is where Lucy Kafanov is standing by. We just heard from one vote who frankly, just sounds exhausted. Why not the process 
 
 by where we are at this point? Why Republicans Lucy, so confident of a big win today?
 
LUCY KAFANOV, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, we've seen the political winds shift. Democrats did have some slight advantages. For example, here in 
 
 Wisconsin, this was considered to be the Democrats one of their best chances to flip a Republican controlled senate seat that's been held by two 
 
 term incumbent Senator Ron Johnson, a close ally of President Trump. He's not particularly popular here.
 
And so polls early on in the race had his Democratic challenger, the lieutenant governor Mandela Barnes, slightly ahead. But he has seen that 
 
 slight lead evaporate in recent weeks due in part to the - of negative advertising. That is something that will -
 
ANDERSON: Lucy, can I just stop you for one moment.
 
KAFANOV: Go ahead.
 
ANDERSON: I'm going to come back to you. Lucy, let me stop you for one moment because we have just got pictures in from Palm Beach in Florida, 
 
 where Donald Trump is - out to vote. Let's listen in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONALD TRUMP, 45TH U.S. PRESIDENT: I'm very excited.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. Trump, what can you say about next week?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Inaudible)
 
TRUMP: We're going to make up your mind, you got to go out. And this is going to be a very important election that hopefully the right thing will 
 
 happen.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: --of the Republican Party, will your candidates win?
 
TRUMP: I hope so. I really think it's been a brilliant campaign.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What is the personal revisit you hope the Republicans will accomplish?
 
TRUMP: Well, I think number one is going to look crime. It's going to be keeping your taxes low. We'd give the biggest tax cut in history; we gave 
 
 the biggest regulation cuts in history. As you know, the Democrats want to rise that all up, we want to keep the taxes low. I think you have to close 
 
 up the border and you have to do it quickly.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
TRUMP: If we have millions and millions of people coming into our country and our country is being destroyed. So that'll happen. That'll absolutely 
 
 happen. But we have to fight crime, we have to fight to keep our taxes well and you have to do something about the border. And it has to be done now.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Is that part of the - again on Tuesday.
 
TRUMP: Say it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you trying considering a run again, your big announcement you're teasing?
 
TRUMP: I think Tuesday will be a very exciting day for a lot of people and I look forward to see you at Mar-a-Lago.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why did you vote for --?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did you vote for Governor DeSantis?
 
TRUMP: Lost its way it's lost its confidence. It's gotten very bad. Thank you all.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Donald Trump and his wife casting their ballots in Palm Beach in Florida. And I was with Lucy Kafanov, who was in Wisconsin. I don't know if 
 
 I've still got her, have I still got Lucy?
 
Yes, I have. Lucy I want to bring you back in. I hope that you were listening in to what we just heard from Donald Trump was quite difficult to 
 
 hear his responses there. What did you catch?
 
KAFANOV: What the former president is effectively teasing to a very special announcement in his terms, we probably can presume that he will be 
 
 announcing a presidential run. But before we get to the next presidential election, we are still in the midst of the midterms here in the United 
 
 States, the outcome of which could determine the balance of power in congress.
 
And Wisconsin is a critical race for that because it is a closely divided race, a closely contested race, the Republican here facing a Democratic 
 
 opponent. We don't know which way the state is going to vote. But again, for the voters that you talk to here in Milwaukee, it's not about these 
 
 national issues. It's about the local issues that they care about. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm at work and my friends are like, oh, did you vote did you vote? Like OK, yes, I'm going, I'm going. I just feel like a lot of 
 
 pressure.
 
KAFANOV (on camera): So the issues for you in this election are?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Women's rights. I don't want to like ruin your thing, but legalizing marijuana guns, you know all the violence and stuff. That's 
 
 not how America should be right.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But I think about taxes. For me religious freedom is a big deal. And that actually goes, to me that go hand-in-hand with abortion 
 
 because to me that's tied for my personal beliefs. And I believe inflation is a big topic of conversation and how we can combat that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAFANOV: And Becky, Wisconsin is reflective of democratic struggles across the country. They have seen their leaves evaporate in key House and Senate 
 
 races, in part because of outside money flooding in hammering them on crime inflation, while they have tried to rail against Republican candidates over 
 
 their opposition to things like abortion rights.
 
And so it remains to be seen which direction Wisconsin will lean but this is a state where elections tend to come down to the wire a lot is going to 
 
 depend on voter turnout and how independents vote. And again, this is the beginning of a very long day as voters continue to stream into polling 
 
 places like this one, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Stay warm, Lucy. Thank you. Lucy is in Wisconsin. Still ahead, Iran's beach soccer team returns to the country after winning an 
 
 international tournament. Why are authorities there ready to punish some of the players live report on that is just ahead?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
ANDERSON: Iran's Football Federation has issued an ominous threat to its beach soccer players. It says players showed solidarity with protesters 
 
 during an international tournament on Sunday will be "Dealt with".
 
Crowds chanted support for the team as they returned to Iran after winning the Emirates speech Soccer Cup. Meanwhile, a London based news channel is 
 
 accusing Iran of plotting to kill two of its journalists who covered the protests. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh has been covering those protests from the 
 
 start.
 
She joins us now from Istanbul and first let's just addresses the issue of these soccer players. What do we know at this point? How will they be, 
 
 "Dealt with" as they are as the authorities are threatening?
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, that's the big question, Becky. Everyone has been waiting to see what dealt with means what that looks like 
 
 what is going to happen after the team members returned to Iran. On Mondays as you mentioned that ominous threat warning coming from the Football 
 
 Federation saying that those who did not follow sports and professional ethics will be dealt. Well, this is of course after the team won that final 
 
 game in the UAE against Brazil.
 
The player who scored the winning goal showed his support for the protest movement appearing pretending to cut his hair. Of course that has become 
 
 the universal symbol of the protest movement and the women's movement in Iran.
 
And also the team members Becky did not seem to be singing along to the national anthem before the match began.
 
Now when they arrived in Tehran on Monday, journalists were waiting for them outside the airport, but they were not allowed to speak with the team 
 
 members, so we are keeping a very close eye on this. Of course, this is the latest in several incidents over the past few weeks where athletes Iranians 
 
 competing outside the country are showing support for the protest movement.
 
ANDERSON: Jomana, what more do we know about these threats to journalists based in Britain working for as I understand it, the channel called Iran 
 
 International, correct?
 
KARADSHEH: Well, yes, Becky. I mean, over the past 24 hours, we have received information these reports of threats to two organizations based 
 
 outside Iran that has been reporting extensively on the protests and the crackdown.
 
You've got Iran international that says that two of its British Iranian journalist who it's not naming for their safety had been notified by the 
 
 Metropolitan Police in the UK, they say of threats that were presented imminent, credible and significant risk to their lives and those of their 
 
 families.
 
CNN did contact the Metropolitan Police who say that they don't comment on these individual cases. But Becky, Iran International has been covering the 
 
 protests non-stop. It's a 24 hour news channel. London has been doing so for nearly two months right now.
 
It says that the IRGC has issued warnings to the channel in recent weeks the Revolutionary Guard Corps. The regime has certainly been singling them 
 
 out for their coverage of the protests. They have been accused of serving foreign agendas, Saudi Arabia, namely something that the channel has denied 
 
 in the past saying that they're not funded by the Saudis and in another organization Becky that has been threatened is the - organization for human 
 
 rights.
 
They say that their staff members in based in northern Iraq have also received very serious threats from the IRGC. And they're calling on the 
 
 Kurdistan Regional Government in Iraq to provide them with protection, Becky.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
ANDERSON: Right, Jomana, thank you. Jomana Karadsheh is on the story that she has been covering since the outset, of course, the continuation of 
 
 these protests in Iran. Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now and North Korea denying reports 
 
 that it is selling weapons to Russia. Last week, American officials said North Korea was supplying a significant number of artillery shells for 
 
 Russia's use in Ukraine. Pyongyang says U.S. allegation is an effort to harm North Korea's international reputation. Well, Hong Kong is easing some 
 
 of its COVID rules regarding tourist groups.
 
Tour groups will once again be allowed to visit theme parks and museums. But international travelers are still subject to multiple COVID tests and 
 
 are barred from visiting bars and restaurants during their first three days in Hong Kong.
 
And severe drought in the Horn of Africa is impacting the lives of both people and wildlife. Still ahead what some African leaders here at COP27 
 
 say climate justice looks like.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: The effects of what is being discussed here in Sharm el-Sheikh at the COP27 climate meeting are being felt around the world. Earlier this 
 
 hour you heard from the Kenyan President William Ruto on what are the devastating droughts in the Horn of Africa.
 
He told me that millions of people are facing starvation and for the first time how they are even, having to try to find food for wild animals. Well, 
 
 CNN's Lynda Kinkade takes a closer look on the devastating toll on wildlife in the country.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Rangers tried to give the elephant cops and water in a desperate attempt to save the animal. The calf 
 
 lies on the ground barely moving. Kenya's tourism minister says more than 200 elephants and hundreds of other wildlife have died in the past eight 
 
 months in Kenya.
 
This as the region including Ethiopia and Somalia see the worst drought in 40 years. Conservation group Grevy's Gravis zebra Trust says that just this 
 
 summer, a lack of food and water wiped out 2 percent of the world's gravy zebras, the rarest species, as the effects of climate change worsen in the 
 
 region. Wildlife experts are doing all they can for the animals, but it's a race against time.
 
SAMSON LENJIR, ELEPHANT PROGRAMME COORDINATOR, WWF-KENYA: Well for loss an entire generation, and if we lose an entire generation and the gestation 
 
 period takes another two three years, then we are talking about a span of eight years. So what does that tells us ecological?
 
KINKADE (voice over): Kenya's - herders struggled to keep their cattle alive. Many livestock and crops have also been wiped out in some areas 
 
 after four straight, rainy seasons failed to produce adequate rainfall. Perhaps the biggest impact has been the humanitarian crisis.
 
The worsening drought has left many people without proper nutrition or safe drinking water. The United Nations warns that parts of some countries in 
 
 the Horn of Africa are on the brink of famine for the second time in just over a decade. In August the World Food Program reported that 22 million 
 
 people across three countries are facing severe food insecurity.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
MOHAMMED FALL, UNICEF REGIONAL DIRECTOR FOR EASTERN &amp; SOUTHERN AFRICA: We need to magnify and scale up the intervention to save life. Behind me, we 
 
 have outreach program that is addressing malnutrition, health and well- being of children. We are talking about children who are severely and acutely malnourished. Only this county has like 20,000 of them and this is 
 
 a major cause of death.
 
KINKADE (voice over): The World Food Program says more than a million people have been forced from their homes in search of food and water and 
 
 organizations is scaling up efforts to reach vulnerable communities. But there's no end in sight to the drought crisis. Lynda Kinkade, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: I'm Becky Anderson, in Sharm el-Sheikh at the COP27 meeting here. "One World" with Zain Asher is up next, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
END