Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Candidates Make Final Pitch with One Day Until Key Vote; Democrats Seek to Flip Pennsylvania Senate Seat; Record Number of Ballots Already Cast in Georgia; Georgia Secretary of State: We Have Honest and Fair Elections; Concerns Over Voter Intimidation Grow; Trump and DeSantis Hold Competing Rallies in Florida. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired November 07, 2022 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and warm welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Bianca Nobilo.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Max Foster joining you live from London and just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We all know in our bones that our democracy is at risk. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I know the Democrats want democracy to be on the ballot but economy is on the ballot and Joe Biden is on the ballot.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The question is who's going to stand up for ordinary people and I think I demonstrated my commitment to doing that. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I believe that we are the land of opportunity. I believe we're the land of plenty. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Wake up, show up, and speak up and vote red. Vote American. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I will probably have to do it again but stay tuned. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: It is Monday, November 7th, 9:00 a.m. here in London, 4:00 a.m. on the U.S. East Coast. We are now just a little more than 24 hours away from polling opening across America in an election where the stakes couldn't be higher. 
 
NOBILO: This will be the first major vote following the pandemic, the January 6th Capitol riot and the reversal of Roe versus Wade and one that comes as the state of the economy remains a top issue. FOSTER: Four presidents past and present hit the campaign trail over
 
 the weekend. All but one making the case that the future of democracy is at stake as a number of election deniers compete for key offices. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: These deniers are not only trying to deny your right to vote, they're trying to deny your right to have your vote counted. No, I'm not joking. I'm not joking. With these election deniers, there are only two outcomes for any election, either they win or they were cheated. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Those comments coming as Mr. Biden stumped for New York Governor Kathy Hochul. New York is one of the 36 states that will be electing governors and this election will determine who controls Congress. In the House, all 435 seats are up for grabs but Republicans would only need to win five to take back control. 
 
FOSTER: But it's anyone's game in the Senate where key races in Nevada, Georgia and Pennsylvania may end up determining which party will lead the chamber. The Pennsylvania race is the best chance Democrats have at flipping a Republican Senate seat.
 
NOBILO: Their candidate John Fetterman seen here on your left has been leading in the polls. But Republican nominee Mehmet Oz on your right is closing in. 
 
FOSTER: Oz is being spurned by the woman who made him famous, Oprah Winfrey, he is backed by Donald Trump and is hoping that enforcement will push him ahead. CNN's Athena Jones joins us from Pennsylvania, as is often the case with these elections, all eyes on where you are. 
 
ATHENA JONES, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Max and Bianca. That's exactly right. As you mentioned, Pennsylvania is the Democrat's biggest opportunity to pick up a seat. GOP Senator Pat Toomey is retiring. And as you mentioned also, Fetterman and Oz are locked in a tight race. Polls suggest that Fetterman is still in the lead, but it's very, very close and of course, it's all going to come down to who can get their voters out the polls in this challenging climate for Democrats not just in the state of Pennsylvania but nationwide. 
 
You have the President Biden whose approval numbers are low with more people disapproving of the job he's doing than approving of it. And then you got all these concerns about the economy, about inflation, gas prices and the like. And so, this is why you have had three presidents stumping here over the weekend. Donald Trump coming out to support Mehmet Oz and former President Barack Obama and President Biden campaigning for Fetterman. 
 
I should mention that even though Biden's approval is under water, this is the state he was born in. He was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He's been here quite a bit. This is one of the few states he made repeated trips to, 20 trips as of Saturday. But part of the closing arguments are focused on issues like, you know, abortion rights. Democrats saying, look, Mehmet Oz is not going to be supportive of abortion rights. And then on the other side, Oz saying Fetterman is just going to support President Biden in his efforts to spend more and tax more. Take a listen to some of the closing arguments from each of the candidates the last couple days. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MEHMET OZ, REPUBLICAN U.S. SENATE CANDIDATE: He advocated and supported the Biden tax increase with 87,000 more personnel be hired by organization where that's not where we need the manpower. 
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
And they're coming for your money because they're not going to be stuck with just people with affluence. They want everyone to pay more in taxes, to make up for the reckless spending. 
 
JOHN FETTERMAN, DEMOCRATIC U.S. SENATE CANDIDATE Dr. Oz, you know, of his immense wealth, with ten gigantic mansions has never like personally experienced that or whatever care or know how much a dozen eggs cost or what any of these kinds of basic -- basically kind of lives and average lives of people in Pennsylvania. And I think we have to push back about corporate greed -- corporate greed right now.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JONES: So, there you hear common themes you hear often from the Republican side arguing the Democrats are taxing and spending and that Fetterman would give the president's party more power to do that. Fetterman arguing that Oz is so rich he can't even relate to issues like rising prices. He doesn't know the price of things. 
 
One thing that's interesting I should mention here in Pennsylvania is that more than a million people have already cast their ballots in early voting. That is more than 20 percent of the total vote in the 2018 midterm. So, it could be an indication of the enthusiasm and the interest in voters and coming out and making their voices heard. But also, could be a challenge on election day in terms of how quickly we're going to know the results if the case is close. That's because Pennsylvania is a state that doesn't begin opening those mail-in ballots until the morning of election day. We know in the midterms there were problems in one county with the printing of the ballots. So, any issues that arise like that could certainly delay the result here -- Max, Bianca. 
 
FOSTER: OK, Athena in Allentown, thank you. What do you reckon, when do you think we'll have the final result? 
 
NOBILO: Well, as Athena was just mentioning, if it's like 2018, we're likely to get a snapshot the evening of the vote, November 8th, and then a better picture morning of the 9th. But then if there are runoffs or recounts -- 
 
FOSTER: Challenges. 
 
NOBILO: Exactly. That could drag on. FOSTER: We'll have it all here in the morning on Wednesday. 
 
Now 40 million ballots have already been cast in early voting across the country -- as Athena was saying. 
 
NOBILO: Georgia alone has recorded about 2.5 million pre-election ballots. That's a midterm record and far higher than the numbers from 2018. Now traditionally more Democrats vote early, but a former Atlanta mayor says that the turnout is no guarantee of a Democrat win. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEISHA LANCE BOTTOMS, FORMER ATLANTA, GEORGIA MAYOR: We have seen a record number of people turn out in early vote, but we still have an election on Tuesday and we cannot let up until this election is over. It doesn't matter what the polls say. People still have the ability to show up to vote on Tuesday and to make a difference in Georgia. The thought of Herschel Walker going to the Senate is frightening. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Republican challenger Herschel Walker is trying to win the Senate seat currently held by Democratic Senator Raphael Warnock in a contest that could determine which party controls the Senate next year. 
 
FOSTER: Georgians are also casting ballots in the rematch in the governor's race between Democrat Stacey Abrams and incumbent Republican Governor Brian Kemp. CNN's Jeff Zeleny has more from Atlanta. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: More than 2.5 million votes have already been cast early in Georgia, which is home to a key governor's race as well as a top Senate contest that could determine control of the U.S. Senate. On Sunday, Republican candidate, Herschel Walker, was out in force, trying to tie his Democratic opponent Raphael Warnock directly to President Biden who course is facing some popularity challenges. 
 
Walker, as he campaigned set this --
 
HERSCHEL WALKER, REPUBLICAN U.S. SENATE CANDIDATE: You heard the president, his biggest threat to democracy is to vote for somebody in the Republican Party? Is it crazy? The biggest threat to a democracy is to have him in the White House, is it not? 
 
ZELENY: So, again and again trying to tie Senator Warnock to the policies of this White House, to the policies of the administration. That is their closing strategy here to try and link the two together. 
 
Now Senator Warnock for his part as tried to put distance between himself and the White House. On issues like immigration, on trade, on the economy and indeed inflation. But in the final hours of this race, there is no doubt that Georgia
 
 could be front and center in the race for control because of a runoff rule here. Georgia is unique in a sense that each candidate must get over 50 percent or the winner must get over 50 percent to win. If not, this race goes into a runoff contest which is December 6th. So, if control of the U.S. Senate this week hinges on Georgia, we could be waiting one more month to find out the winner. 
 
Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Atlanta.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NOBILO: Two civil rights groups are suing a Georgia county to give absentee voters more time to receive and return their ballots. The suit claims that Cobb County failed to send out the absentee ballots in a timely manner. Over 1,000 ballots were mailed on Saturday instead of back in October due to errors in the elections office. 
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
Meantime, some Georgia voters are concerned over the lack of security and possible election fraud. It's an issue that emerged in the previous gubernatorial race in 2018 and has been front and center since former President Trump asked the Georgia Secretary of State for those 11,000 votes. The Secretary of State is squaring off in a race to keep his position even as he oversees the state's election. Here is what he told CNN about the integrity of this election. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRAD RAFFENSPERGER, GEORGIA SECRETARY OF STATE: Well, I know in Georgia we have honest and fair elections for everyone and I will honor the results from for my own personal race. I'm not going to be contesting it. Let the people speak, you know, through their vote because I do know we have honest and fair elections. 
 
We now, you know, have photo ID for all forms of voting. So, absentee ballot process is photo ID driver's license number. And then as it relates to in-person that's all photo ID. It's been that way for over ten years now. So, we can identify their photos. 
 
We're recognized as having one of the cleanest voter rolls in the entire country. We're getting accolades from Heritage Foundation on the right side of the aisle and then from the Center for Election Innovation and Research on the left side of the aisle for having accessible, honest elections. So, we must be doing something right in Georgia. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: An envelope containing suspicious white powder was sent to the campaign headquarters to Kari Lake, the Republican nominee for Arizona governor. A staff opened the envelope on Saturday and is now under medical supervision. So far, no reports of injuries. That envelope was one of two that were confiscated by law enforcement and sent to professionals for examination according to a campaign spokesman. FOSTER: And Lake is condemning saying, quote, we are living in
 
 dangerous times. Her team said it was taking the threat incredibly seriously and thanked authorities for investigating the incident. 
 
Voter intimidation is at the top of mind for many in Arizona and other states where some armed poll watchers have been staking out ballot drop boxes and amid concerns that some election deniers may not accept the results of Tuesday's vote. The chairwoman of the Republican National Committee said Sunday that candidates from her party would accept the results after letting the process play out. Here is more of what she told CNN's Dana Bash. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR: As the top Republican in this country right now, your message is -- 
 
RONNA MCDANIEL, CHAIRWOMAN, REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE: Do not break the law. Do not attack or intimidate people who are trying to vote. 
 
BASH: In any way, shape or form? 
 
MCDANIEL: I don't think that should be done at all. Also, don't intimidate our poll watchers because we're having that right now too. Where our poll watchers are not being allowed to meaningfully observe. That's an important part of our democracy that both sides, Democrat and Republican, should be able to meaningfully observe so that we can go out and say, listen, we saw it and it went well. 
 
BASH: You're trying to recruit poll watchers. 
 
MCDANIEL: We have. 
 
BASH: You've been on Steve Bannon's podcast multiple times -- 
 
MCDANIEL: Yes. 
 
BASH: -- and you are asking him to help recruit -- and his listeners to help recruit the poll watchers. Is there any concern about using that outlet on this issue when it comes to potential for harassment? 
 
MCDANIEL: No. I'm never telling people to harass. 
 
BASH: Of course, you're not. 
 
MCDANIEL: No, I would never do that. I'm saying please go sign up. It's the number one thing I hear across the country from my voters. I'm very concerned about the election. I want to make sure it's fair and transparent. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: One group in Georgia is working to restore trust in the American elections process. It's a nonpartisan program at the Jimmy Carter Center where poll observers have been receiving training. Here is how the Carter Center's CEO explains it. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAIGE ALEXANDER, CEO, THE CARTER CENTER: Poll watching is not intended as got you measure. It's intended to actually validate a system where citizens who are actually the poll workers are doing their job and citizens who are voting are able to do it in a free, fair and transparent way. We're nonpartisan. We're not talking to anyone. We don't have a conversation. We're only looking at the credibility and the validity of the election. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Still ahead, it looks like a rift in the party. Two top Republicans campaign separately. We'll have the details next. 
 
FOSTER: And with less than 24 hours to go, a Democratic strategist is giving her take on how her party will fare on election night. 
 
NOBILO: And Florida has several high-pressure races, but how will voters react to a low pressure zone that could leave them rain soaked. Our Pedram Javaheri will have --
 
PEDRAM JAVAHERI, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Activity brewing across portions of the Atlantic. We're going to break down exactly what is going to develop with this storm system. Subtropical storm Nicole, forecast guidance coming up in a few minutes.
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: And now in order to make our country successful, safe, and glorious, I will probably have to do it again but stay tuned. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: That was former U.S. President Donald Trump teasing a possible presidential run in 2024 while campaigning in Florida. 
 
FOSTER: Yes, he was rallying for Republican Senator Marco Rubio. And despite once endorsing state Governor Ron DeSantis , the two now seem to be political rivals. Both leaders held competing rallies across the state on Sunday. A day earlier, Trump also took a swipe at DeSantis . 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: There it, is Trump at 71. Ron de-sanctimonious at 10 percent.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NOBILO: The fallout comes as both Trump and DeSantis  are eyeing a possible presidential run. CNN's Kristen Holmes has the latest from Miami. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In the final days before the midterms, former President Donald Trump delivered a dark message during a rally with Senator Marco Rubio in Miami. The president focused on crime, particularly crimes committed by illegal immigrants, drug dealers, murder, death, but all of that dark messages similar to what we saw when he ran for president in 2016, resonated with his supporters. Supporters stood cheering for him even as a torrential downpour started outside of the rally. 
 
Perhaps more surprising marks came from former President Trump, were those in support of Senator Marco Rubio. He praised the Senator. Usually during these rallies, he focuses much more on himself and his political future. However, he heaped praise on Rubio there. 
 <br>[04:20:03]
 
Now one person who was noticeably missing among top elite Florida Republicans was Florida Governor Ron DeSantis who was not invited by former President Donald Trump to this rally. DeSantis is largely considered Trump's most formidable opponent in 2024 should both of them run for president. 
 
As we reported last week, former President Trump is likely to announce in the two weeks between the midterm elections and Thanksgiving that is when he is eyeing announcing a third presidential run. 
 
Kristen Holmes, CNN, Miami.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FOSTER: Well, as Americans gear up for election day, there are two tropical disturbances in the Atlanta, one of which may bring troubling weather to Florida on Thursday. 
 
NOBILO: Meteorologist Pedram Javaheri now joins us from the CNN Weather Center. Pedram, what are we expecting in the Panhandle? 
 
JAVAHERI: Good morning, guys, these two tropical systems one of them is going to remain over open waters, that is the northern one here with a 60 percent probability, but subtropical storm Nicole has already formed and it's forecast will potentially try to intensify here in the coming day or so. And you'll notice, 45 mile-per-hour winds, very much an unorganized complex of storms right now several hundred miles away from the Bahamas. 
 
And I want to show you exactly where this system's forecast ends up. Because it does kind of meander over the next couple of days. When it comes to Tuesday, election day, it does look to remain 500 miles offshore. So, the impact certainly not going to be there. But as we transition from late Wednesday into Thursday the system could intensify to possibly a tropical storm there. Winds around 70 miles per hour across the southern tier of Florida. Of course, hurricane season doesn't end until November 30th. Again, notice on Tuesday, still well offshore. Wednesday and Thursday
 
 we began to see some impact across portions of Florida. Gusty winds certainly going to be possible on Thursday morning. We get some heavy rainfall there Thursday into Friday. Across really much of the state of Florida and possibly parts of the southeastern U.S. as well as the system makes landfall later on into the week. 
 
Now when it comes to weather later on today into election day, generally quiet conditions across a large area of the Eastern U.S., maybe a few showers pop up around portions of the southeast, the Carolinas as well but around parts of the battleground states of say Pennsylvania very quiet weather right now. Looking at mild temperatures in place going in from Monday afternoon and then cooler temperatures expected as we transition into say Tuesday afternoon. Temps there drop off by about 20 degrees as an incoming front that comes in on the dry side. And again, cooler air is expected but dry weather also remains in place. 
 
Same thing can't be said around the Western U.S. We have multiple systems coming in with significant power, significant rainfall and high elevation snowfall across parts of Nevada, certainly California into the Pacific Northwest as well. 
 
So, when you look at statistically, studies have been done, guys, that kind of look at the wet weather pattern and how that plays out on election day. You know, Republican voters typically turn out in higher numbers than Democrat voters when it comes to rainy weather conditions. That is based on 2007 study and also the same study found that voter participation dropped by about 1 percent for every inch of rain fall that was observed. 
 
So certainly, parts of California, parts of Nevada will see a decent amount of rainfall in the coming days. Maybe they'll be some impacts across those regions with the wet weather in place and snowfall also played a role with an inch producing about a half a percent drop in turnout. 
 
Now warmer temperatures they do seem to play a more significant role. Mind you parts of the Eastern U.S. will be plenty warm. You know, voter turnout did increase by about .14 percent for every two degree increase in temperatures. It keep in mind, parts of the Eastern U.S. are about 15 degrees warmer than what is typical. So, it certainly could see an impact there. Warmer temperatures also increase the likelihood that voters kept the incumbent party in power. So, that's another thing to keep in mind here as well with extreme warmth if this does play out. Certainly, the weather will be plenty warm across those regions of the U.S. to support this -- guys. 
 
NOBILO: Thanks so much, Pedram, for the meteorological study.
 
FOSTER: Yes, it's amazing. And President Joe Biden as well will be hoping for good weather, campaigning in key battleground states ahead of Tuesday's vote. We'll have the latest on his movements next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) FOSTER: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM, I'm Max Foster. You are joining us from London. Let me bring you up to date with the latest top stories this hour. 
 
We are just one day away from election night in America. All 435 House seats and 35 of the 100 Senate seats are up for grabs. Democrats currently hold a slim majority. But it remains unclear if they'll be able to hang on to power. More than 40 million ballots have been cast in early voting. In Georgia, officials say a historic 36 percent of active voters have cast their ballots. 
 
NOBILO: And with less than 24 hours to go before the U.S. midterm elections, President Joe Biden is making a final push in battleground states. He was in New York on Sunday rallying support for Governor Kathy Hochul. And today, Mr. Biden is heading to Maryland to support gubernatorial candidate Wes Moore. Now CNN's Arlette Saenz has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: President Biden is hitting the campaign trail, making his closing pitch to voters. Arguing that this election is not a referendum on his presidency, but instead is a choice between two vastly different visions for the country. 
 
On Sunday, the president turned his attention to try to boost Democratic support and votes up in the state of New York where the state's governor could be facing the possibility of defeat. New York Governor Kathy Hochul is in a tighter than expected race against Republican Congressman Lee Zeldin. New York is a state that President Biden won by more than 20 points, but there has been the political cavalry essentially going in to try to save Hochul. 
 
And the president took aim directly at Congressman Zeldin, the Republican candidate for governor, especially on an issue related on crime which Zeldin has tried to make a focal point of the campaign. 
 
BIDEN: Folks, Governor Hochul's opponent talks a good game on crime. But it's all talk. It's all talk. Her opponent's plan for public safety is to put more guns on the street. He opposed red flag laws, which would take guns out of the hands of people who pose a danger to themselves and others. 
 
SAENZ: The president's trip to New York is the second time this week that he has gone into a blue state to try to help a Democratic governor in a tighter than expected race. The White House and Democratic officials have argued while so much attention has been focused on the House and Senate, they also view those governor seats as being equally as important as they believe Democratic governors would be key to enacting President Biden's agenda. 
 
On Monday, the president will spend election eve up in Maryland on behalf of Wes Moore, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate.
 <br>[04:30:00]