Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Florida Hits By Hurricane Nicole; Veterans Day In The U.S. Aired 4- 4:10a ET

Aired November 11, 2022 - 04:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey, everyone. We made it. It`s Friday, and you already know Fridays rock. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10, and I`m so pumped to be 
 
 right here with you. Let`s finish this week strong.
 
We`re going to start in Florida, where another hurricane has made landfall. Hurricane Nicole slammed into Florida`s east coast Thursday morning, as a 
 
 category one storm, according to the National Hurricane Center. Wind speeds reached 75 miles per hour as the storm made landfall, but after moving 
 
 inland, Nicole weakened to a tropical storm.
 
When we recorded our show, more than 300,000 residents across Florida were without power, and coastal residents in Florida and Georgia were impacted 
 
 by storm surge, or an abnormal rise of water generated by a storm.
 
The National Weather Service says that almost half of all deaths from tropical storms, which have wind speeds registering 39 to 73 miles per hour 
 
 come from storm surge. Nicole`s storm surge measured Nicole nearly six feet and water levels remain high. Nicole is the first U.S. hurricane in 
 
 November in nearly 40 years. The storm is the latest in this calendar year and which hurricanes have had major blows to Florida`s Atlantic coast, the 
 
 most recent being Hurricane Ian, which struck the state in September. That storm was the deadliest hurricane to strike Florida since 1935, at least 
 
 147 people died as homes and businesses were destroyed. Some communities in Florida were still recovering from Hurricane Ian when hurricane Nicole hit 
 
 this week.
 
Here`s more now from CNN correspondent Chris Nguyen in Florida amid the storm.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRIS NGUYEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  High winds, heavy rains and significant flooding were expected throughout the night. You can see the 
 
 intensity of the conditions here in Cocoa Beach, which is why officials were urging the public to stay home as the hurricane got closer to making 
 
 landfall here in Florida.
 
Now earlier, today, we were at a local supermarket as folks were stocking up on the necessities, really preparing for the potential for power outages 
 
 for the next day or so at least 16,000 utility workers are currently on standby here in Florida to help with power restoration efforts.
 
Florida Governor Ron DeSantis also saying that he`s activated at least 600 Florida National Guard troops to assist with search and rescue efforts if 
 
 and when necessary. Now residents here in Brevard County were not required to undergo a mandatory evacuation. It was simply an advisory, but you could 
 
 sense that folks here were serious in terms of taking the advice of officials, businesses closed up early and for the most part roads remained 
 
 bare throughout the day.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Ten-second trivia:
 
Veterans Day originated with an observance marking the end of what war?
 
The U.S. Civil War, World War I, World War II or the Vietnam War?
 
The holiday observed on November 11th recalls Armistice Day, marking the end of World War I.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Today, November 11th is Veterans Day in the United States. It all started back in November of 1918, on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 
 
 11th month of the year, an armistice went into effect ending the fighting in World War I. A year later, people in the United States first observed 
 
 Armistice Day. Twenty years later, after World War II, the day became an official national holiday.
 
Then, after the Korean War in 1954, the name of Armistice Day was changed. It`s been known as Veterans Day ever since. The event honors everyone who 
 
 served in the U.S. armed forces. Events are scheduled throughout the day today as Americans pause to thank, salute, remember and respect the service 
 
 and sacrifices of all who served.
 
Next up, we`re going surfing in Tahiti and we`re going to explore a playground of underwater enchantment. In 2019, the World Surf League 
 
 partnered with the non-profit Coral Gardens on a special mission to save the dying coral in the region. Coral is key to our environment and these 
 
 surfers are learning the science of how to preserve and regenerate the coral reef population in Tahiti.
 
In addition to riding a jaw-dropping wave, let`s go there now with my colleague Jonny Velasquez.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JONNY VELASQUEZ, CNN PRODUCER:  Welcome to Tahiti, an island formed from volcanoes in the middle of the South Pacific Ocean, a paradise of lush 
 
 mountains, a diverse ecosystem in marine life. It`s a playground of underwater enchantments.
 
And that`s where the adventure begins at World Surf League`s illustrious Outerknown Tahiti Pro. I flew to Tahiti. I want to find out why the world`s 
 
 most elite surfers would lay their life online riding this wave. Was it for the thrill? Maybe they were chasing that feeling of immortality?
 
Teahupoo is considered the most dangerous wave in the world. What is it like surfing it?
 
VAHINE FIERRO, PROFESSIONAL TAHITIAN SURFER:  It can be so scary, but when you overcome that fear, you can get the best wave of your life out there.
 
JACK ROBINSON, PROFESSIONAL AUSTRALIAN SURFER:  I think Teahupoo is one of the heaviest waves in the world just because the amount of volume of water 
 
 that comes in.
 
VELASQUEZ:  As we often find out in life, not everything is as beautiful as what meets the eye. In this place of pure bliss, underneath the surface, in 
 
 the most crystal-clear water I`ve ever seen, the reef is dying.
 
In 2019, World Surf League partnered with an organization called Coral Gardeners. It`s led by Titouan Bernicot. Titouan is from the sister island 
 
 of Tahiti called Moorea. He and his crew have dedicated their entire lives to saving the reef. They do it through a process called Coral Reef 
 
 Rehabilitation.
 
I met up with him. I was fascinated with this concept and wanted to learn more.
 
TITOUAN BERNICOT, FOUNDER AND CEO OF CORAL GARDENERS:  At the moment on our planet, the coral reef conditions are not good. They are here on planet 
 
 earth since 400 million years, but in just three decades, we already lost 10 percent of our world`s coral reef. Scientists estimate that by 2050, 90 
 
 percent of the remaining one could be condemned. So, it`s an emergency.
 
VELASQUEZ:  After my chat with Titouan, I still wanted to know more about the reef restoration process. I wanted to further understand the science 
 
 behind it all.
 
I connected with former professional surfer Kaipo Guerrero, who now works as an analyst and commentator for the World Surf League.
 
KAIPO GUERRERO, WORLD SURF LEAGUE COMMENTATOR AND ANALYST:  What`s happening with the rehabilitation program is we`re taking basically super 
 
 coral. So, coral that have not succumbed to bleaching and the warming of ocean waters.
 
Now, those super coral, what we can -- are able to do is take a piece of that coral and then graft it, put it on the line and let that piece of 
 
 coral grow. And really when you talk about coral, corals an animal, right? It`s coral polyps, and within that that coral structure that`s kind of a 
 
 hive or kind of the house for the coral polyps. So, they keep on procreating, and they keep on growing. They keep on building a bigger, 
 
 bigger house.
 
VELASQUEZ:  Is it too late to save the reef?
 
GUERRERO:  There`s still time to save the reef. It`s not too late. We can change our ways. We can bring back the reef and that`s what you know the 
 
 good work at Coral Gardeners is doing and planting new coral. There`s -- it`s not -- we`re not too far gone, like we can make a change right now and 
 
 we can turn the corner and turn it around. So, it`s not too late.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  For today`s 10 out of 10, we`re traveling to Israel where researchers made a discovery that left them scratching their heads. A 
 
 seven-word inscription was discovered by accident on a 3,700-year-old comb made of ivory. It says: May this tusk root out the lice of the hair and the 
 
 beard.
 
Looks like lice have been annoying people for a long time. The discovery is considered to be the oldest known full sentence in the ancient Canaanite 
 
 language.
 
Happy Friday, lovely people. Keep in touch at Coy Wire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok, or CNN 10 on YouTube.
 
And we want to give a special shout-out now to Hickman High School in Columbia, Missouri.
 
Have a wonderful weekend. And remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy, this is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with 
 
 you.
 
END