Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Moscow Accuses Ukraine Of Drone Attacks Deep Inside Russia; Moscow Will Not Accept Price Cap On Russian Oil; Indonesia Bans Sex Outside Marriage In New Criminal Code; Brazil, Croatia Advance To Quarterfinals; Iran Refutes Reports That It Abolished Morality Police. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired December 06, 2022 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:07]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone you're watching CNN Newsroom. Ahead this hour, deep strike. The Kremlin says to military bases hundreds of miles inside Russian territory were attacked by Ukrainian drones, potentially raising the stakes and this nine-month long war.
 
Anyone in Indonesia having sex outside of marriage now faces jail time. And hotels are sold out. The tourists have already fought for the greatest volcano show on earth. Now to its second week.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from CNN Center. This is CNN Newsroom with John Vause.
 
VAUSE: Kyiv just to put Russia and Vladimir Putin on notice. Ukraine is not the only one vulnerable to drone strikes. We have word now of another attack. It's released a Ukrainian drone may have attacked an oil tanker near the Kursk airfield. Those are two military bases hundreds of kilometers from Russia's border with Ukraine were targeted on Monday.
 
Officials in Kyiv have refused to confirm or deny. Regardless, it was a brazen and unprecedented attack. Surveillance video recorded on an early morning explosion at one base in the city of Engles, but 800 kilometers south east of Moscow.
 
The explosion can be seen on another video recorded from a different angle. The huge blast lighting up the pre-dawn sky. The military base is home to Russia's long range nuclear capable bombers including the Tupolev 160. Russia claims to have intercepted another drone at a second airfield.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IGOR KONASHENKOV, RUSSIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON (through translator): As a result of the fall and explosion of the wreckage of jet drones at Russian airfields, the whole skin of two aircraft was slightly damaged. Three Russian technical servicemen who are at the airfield are fatally wounded. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Throughout this war, the U.S. and NATO have refused Ukraine's request for long range missiles, fearing they will be launching targets inside Russia. It would now seem the Ukrainians have developed the capability to do just that.
 
Russian retaliation came quickly with a barrage of missiles fired at Ukraine's power grid. The eighth such attack since October, cities and towns across Ukraine were once again left without electricity and running water. The capital Kyiv and the southern port city of Odesa were among the worst affected. These four people reportedly killed.
 
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says maximum efforts are underway to stabilize the grid. The damage reported be not as severe as initially feared, possibly because Ukraine's Air Force has 60 of the 70 Russian missiles launched Monday were shut down.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Every Russian missile shot down is concrete proof that terror can be defeated. But we still cannot give complete security to our sky. There were several hits. Unfortunately, there are victims.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: One of the bloodiest battles of the world right now is for the city of Bakhmut in eastern Donetsk. The city has been the target of nearly constant Russian shelling since May. But in recent weeks, the Russian military appears to have begun an all-out assault which according to Ukrainian assessment has left heavy losses on Russian forces. And CNN senior international correspondent Sam Kiley reports many of the fighters defending Bakhmut are Russian.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Cesar (ph) is Russian. He's taking a break at a monastery from fighting Russians in nearby Bakhmut. It's a relief from scenes like this Bakhmut's Ukrainian field hospital. His been defending this Ukrainian town from Russia's most intense assault along an 800 mile front.
 
Artillery jewels and trench warfare have almost destroyed Bakhmut as Russia throws its army at a bid for victory after months of defeats to the north and south. Defending Bakhmut against his Russian motherland is a religious imperative for Cesar (ph). The fighting is very brutal now, he says. There are very few prisoners.
 
KILEY (on camera): And when you see those Russians in your gun sites, what do you think and what do you feel? I believe that these people who've broken the law of man and the law of God, I have no pity for them. I take them prisoner if I can, but most often, I just have to kill them.
 
So have you killed a lot of your countrymen? A dozen and a half.
 
This is the remains of a Russian Orthodox monastery. Now for Vladimir Putin the Orthodox Church is absolutely central to his vision of the Russian world. For some Russians, though, that's a world they don't want to live in. Indeed, they don't want it to survive.
 
KILEY (voiceover): Ukraine's Orthodox Church broke with Moscow three years ago. This is all that's left of a rebranded Ukrainian Orthodox St. George's monastery after nine months of war.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Putin says that his defensive traditional values comes with a result of his dependent around old monastery.
 <br>[01:05:06]
 
KILEY: Vinny (ph) has been fighting in Bakhmut for weeks against mercenaries from Russia's Wagner company, many of them convicted criminals. It's obvious, he says, when private companies hire criminals and convicts imagine a man kills once and they put him in jail then he kills a second time, and he becomes a repeat offender under the law. Then, he gets let out of jail and given a gun. That's not a person. That's a beast.
 
After a form of Wagner deserter Yevgeny Nuzhin was murdered in a video that was praised by Wagner's boss, Yevgeny Prigozhin, Vinny (ph) is in no doubt how he would be treated if captured. It'll be the end 100%. But percent it will just be more painful. 
 
The Russian Legion does claim to be in the hundreds. And it says many more back home are trying to join Ukraine's army. Alongside their Ukrainian allies, the Russian Legion is focused on the battle for Bakhmut. The aim of the war after is more ambitious.
 
He says I'm doing my military and Christian duty, I defend the Ukrainian people. And when Ukraine is free, I will carry my soul to Russia to free it from tyranny. Sam Kiley, CNN, Dolyna, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
VAUSE: Earlier I spoke with Peter Zalmayev, director of the Eurasia Democracy Institute about the drone attacks on Russian territory, and what message that may send to the Kremlin.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PETER ZALMAYEV, DIRECTOR, EURASIA DEMOCRACY INITIATIVE: First of all, Ukrainian Ukrainians have perfected this art of trolling, you know, the Russians. And this is another evidence of that they are not taking full, direct responsibility for what happened. They're being coy about what new technology Ukraine has been able to develop, believe it or not, you know, there is that research and development happening on the territory of Ukraine. And some, as far as I know, have been produced. These may have been unmanned flying objects such as drones that hit so deep inside Russia, you reported it. So what, three to 450 miles deep behind frontlines inside Russia. This is very, a very troubling sign for the Russians, whether that would lead to any direct escalation. I mean, you know, I think this is just a kind of absurd to assume that Russia would just wage this war in the territory of Ukraine did not expect anything to hit, you know, to hit it back. You know, you get what you, you know, what you're so essentially, and, you know, I wouldn't worry too much about this escalation, you know, because you have to keep in mind, Vladimir Putin has already been at pains to convince the Russians that they're at war, not with Ukraine, but they are at war with NATO.
 
So if in the minds of the Russians, Russia is waging with NATO, I mean, what more escalation can you assume, right? Vladimir Putin has said it was not a bluff, that he would strike with all the weapons to defend his territory. While you know, Ukraine has been striking, one after another after another target, once again, coyly not taking full responsibility behind front lines. This is as deep as they've ever gotten. And Putin does not have a clear answer to that. I think the deterrence is working. He's been sent a signal by the international community, including the Chinese that the use of nuclear weapons cannot even be contemplated.
 
VAUSE: And back in October, you know, there was a statement by Ukraine's state owned weapons manufacturers posted on Facebook, a new long range drone with a range of 1,000 kilometers, or about 600 miles. So maybe the strikes go even deeper still. This is significant militarily. But what about in other ways? You know, what's the message here? What impact could this have on Putin and, you know, the Russians as population?
 
ZALMAYEV: Well, I think this is, first of all, it's a question of fairness. You know, you bring war to another country, then you expect the war to arrive at your own doorstep. It's already produced waves of concern, you know, the mayors of these towns where it's happened have scrambled to ensure their populations at all is well. I wouldn't be certain that it would, you know, be an immediate threat to Vladimir Putin's regime.
 
But you know, if Ukraine develops enough of this technology, and is able to strike, once again, these are military targets we're talking about. Some of them apparently will launching pads, launch staging grounds for these planes that would take off and bomb our territory.
 
So this actually could militarily significantly degrade Russia's ability to wage war against Ukraine. As far as politically right now the popular -- the population of Russia is probably less active and less courageous than the population of China. That's been that's risen up against COVID restrictions and even the women of Iran.
 <br>[01:10:02]
 
Russians, you know, this is a clear demonstration of what happens to a country when you have a leader in power for 22 years who has subverted all institutions and instilled great, great fear among his people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Our thanks to Peter Zalmayev for his expertise and for that interview.
 
Well, Russian oligarch with his army of mercenaries has warned us not to designate his private military contractors as a terrorist organization. Yevgeny Prigozhin, Wagner Group has been actively fighting in Ukraine for the Russians. He says the U.S. should let sleeping dogs lie or risk a response that would make them tremble.
 
CNN reported last month, the Biden administration is considering a terrorist label for the group. So far, no final decision has been made.
 
Price caps on Russian oil are now reality but the response from Moscow is to ignore them. The EU, G7 and Australia agreed to impose a $60 cap on a barrel of Russian oil. The move is meant to cut billions of dollars in revenue, which has helped pay for Putin's war of choice in Ukraine. All details are from CNN's Clare Sebastian reporting in from London.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Well, Moscow's next move is the major variable as the world watches to see how this oil price cap plays out. And the cap is essentially a ban on countries accessing EU or G7 insurance or shipping services if they pay over a certain amount for Russian oil as it has done for months.
 
The Kremlin promised Monday it would not recognize the EU and G7 price cap on its oil exports. And it said it was preparing a response. Now of course Russia does have a track record when it comes to cutting off its own fossil fuel exports to hurt Ukraine's allies. It's done so with some gas supplies to Europe.
 
But oil is a much bigger revenue driver for Russia and more important than ever right now as sanctions eat into the rest of the economy. Now that is why the level of the cap was such a delicate balance because on the one hand, the whole point of this is to reduce the oil revenues funding Russia's war chest. Russian euros crude has been trading at or close to or below the cap recently.
 
So for now, the impact should be limited, but the cap will be regularly reviewed and could be set lower and future for the reason for setting it at this level of $60 though, is because the West does not want Russia, the world's second biggest oil producer to stop exporting oil to some customers and cut production, that would lead to destabilizing price spikes when the world is already grappling with sky high inflation.
 
Well, Russia is likely already looking as well for loopholes in the scheme. There are reports that has been amassing a shadow fleet of tanker so it doesn't need to rely on Western companies. But along with an EU embargo on Russian seaborne oil that also came into force Monday, this is still the biggest set of energy sanctions on Russia since the start of the nine-month old war and one that has the potential at least to hit Russia's biggest source of funding. Clare Sebastian, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
VAUSE: Anyone having sex in Indonesia and are not married could soon be facing a year in jail. A short time ago parliament approved a sweeping change to the criminal code. And the no sex out of marriage law applies to visiting foreigners as well. Living together before marriage, once known as living in sin is now a jailable offense. And the penalty for blasphemy, which is already considered a criminal offense now carries up to five years in prison.
 
Well, let's go live to Hong Kong to CNN's Anna Coren. So riddle me this one back there. How exactly do the Indonesians play to enforce this new law?
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A very good question, John, and one that we do not have the answer for as you say this law was just passed a few hours ago this criminal code, which really means that the laws in place in Indonesia are now very much Sharia inspired laws.
 
You know, we think of Indonesia as a predominantly, you know, moderate Islamic country. It's a huge destination for foreigners, for international tourists going on holidays, particularly the island of Bali. What does this criminal code now mean to them? Because this does not just apply to Indonesians and foreigners living in Indonesia. This also applies to the tourists who are visiting Indonesia.
 
Now, you mentioned the sex outside marriage that is now jailable for up to a year if found guilty, as is cohabitation. This is also a jailable offense along with promoting contraception, blasphemy, apostasy criticizing the president, the government and other state institutions.
 
Now, we spoke to Human Rights Watch and they are very, very concerned about the direction that Indonesia is heading, you know, they talk of the rise of ultra conservatives within the party and you remember, this draft is has been in place for decades really it first came about back in 1963.
 <br>[01:15:07]
 
It was reintroduced in 2019. And the President Joko Widodo still in power, he managed to delay it. But this time around, he was unable to do that. And he has now basically brought it into plays. But Human Rights Watch said that the danger of oppressive laws is not that there'll be broadly applied, it's that they will provide avenues for selective enforcement. So real concerns, John, as to where perhaps Indonesia may be heading in the future?
 
VAUSE: Yes, that's the question. So, why -- where does this actually come from? What's driving this, you know, the step backwards into the 1300s?
 
COREN: Yes, look, I think basically, it's the rise of these ultra- conservative right wing politicians within Indonesia, and Joko Widodo, the president of Indonesia, you know, who I've met, who I've spent time with, who is, you know, a very moderate Islamist, he would say that he wants everyone to come to Indonesia to, you know, enjoy the country, obviously, abide by the laws.
 
But as for, you know, him necessarily wanting to push for this, he obviously deleted as I said, back in 2019, when this bill was reintroduced. There has been a big push in the last couple of years. You know, back in 2019, there were protests right across the country, as people were concerned about what this would mean, you know, for freedom of speech, for their individual rights, for women, for LGBTQ groups, you know, there was real concern about where this was heading now.
 
You know, the protests, they haven't really materialized, John. I was speaking to Human Rights Watch, they said that there is a sense of exhaustion amongst the population and people also feel perhaps there might be safeguards in place, this time around, but you know, the devils in the detail and only time will tell.
 
VAUSE: Yes, it's interesting applies to foreigners as well. But why should they be exempt, I guess? Anna, thank you. Anna Coren live for us in Hong Kong.
 
They're happy because Croatia moves to the quarterfinals of the World Cup after winning a penalty shootout three to one against Japan. While there was joy and celebration for Croatia fans, there was only disappointment and sadness the team Japan and their fans after earlier beating former World Champions Germany and Spain, expectations were high heading into the batch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YUKI WATANABE, JAPAN FAN: We were hoping you're going to win and go to the best eight because we never been to like best eight. I think so like, honestly, we're sad. I'm sad. The players didn't give up until the last penalty.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Joy and happiness for Brazil fan celebrating a big win over South Korea four to one. CNN's Don Riddell has the highlights from Monday's World Cup drama.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT (on camera): The Brazilian football team arrived at this World Cup as the favorites to win it and after Monday night's complete demolition of South Korea who would dispute their claim to a sixth world title.
 
At one point it seemed as though the number of goals they were scoring might match the name of the stadium 974.
 
RIDDELL (voiceover): Brazil was just magnificent and their fans are in no doubt that another trophy is imminent. We knew this team was good but they were just irresistible and South Korea couldn't live with them returning from injury Neymar made the first goal Vinicius Junior scored after just seven minutes before Neymar himself outfox the goalie with a penalty six minutes later. Their next goal was a veritable work of art, Richarlison was juggling the ball. The passing was incisive and is finishing lethal. By now they were dancing and Korean heads was spinning. When Vinicius Junior lifted the ball for Lucas Paqueta, it was four and O.
 
In the second half, Korea seemed to know they were beaten but a stunning strike from Paik Seung-ho at least gave them a consolation prize.
 
Brazil hadn't won the World Cup since the 2002 tournament in Korea and Japan and both these teams went out tonight the Japanese lost a penalty shootout to the 2018 finalists Croatia who now have the unenviable task of playing Brazil next in the quarterfinals.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think we're adding another star who has (INAUDIBLE).
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: An amazing match. And now just so free and feel like we can really win and have the best team in order to come for sure.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's Brazilian football as best. I love Neymar, I love Vinicius, all the Brazilian players, it's just entertaining to watch.
 <br>[01:20:06]
 
They're playing football, to have fun and we love to see it.
 
RIDDELL (on camera): Only eight different countries from two continents have won the World Cup trophy before and so far four of them are into the quarterfinals and Spain could join them on Tuesday. A tournament of upsets is starting to look rather predictable. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
VAUSE: Thanks, Don. Here's a preview of Tuesday's action. Final matches for the round of 16 first Group F champions Morocco, face off against Spain, then later, Portugal take on Switzerland.
 
When we come back, China bids a solemn farewell to a flamboyant former leader. He sang opera could recite the Gettysburg address in English live in Beijing.
 
Plus, U.S., officials see no sign Iran is improving treatment of women following reports it was scrapping the morality police. More reaction on that in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Sources tell CNN China's President Xi Jinping will head to Saudi Arabia later this week. There's been no official government announcement for the trip comes amid rising tensions between Beijing and Washington as well as Washington and Riyadh. The Arab diplomatic sources the trip is a milestone for Arab-Chinese relations. Chinese President will attend a China Arab summit as well as a meeting with the Gulf Cooperation Council.
 
And earlier, Xi Jinping paid his respects to one of his predecessors. He spoke at the state memorial service for former Chinese President Jiang Zemin, who ushered in an era of economic prosperity. Zemin was leader from 1989 through 2003.
 
During that time, he reengaged with the West which had largely shunned Beijing after Tiananmen Square crackdown. State media reporting Jiang died of leukemia and organ failure last week. He was 96 years old. Chinese leaders visited Jiang's body at a military hospital on Monday before it was cremated.
 
Let's bring in CNN Steven Jiang for more on this and this really represents the end of an era in many ways with Jiang Zemin's passing.
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF: That's right, and who could have forgotten his inclination to burst into songs in multiple languages and reciting famous foreign leader speeches like Gettysburg address by Lincoln, you know, that was, in a way became synonymous with a narrow perceived to be freer and more open to the outside world, which of course is in stark contrast to the current era under this current leader Xi Jiping, who didn't pull out all the stops to send off Jiang Zemin, showering the former leader with praises mentioned in Beijing.
 
But even before that, there are several ceremonies held in Jiang's honor after his death last week, and Xi Jinping attended both ceremonies in Beijing and even went to the airport to receive his casket from Shanghai and there were some rare moments of public display of emotions on Xi's part including him embracing tightly ship Jiang's eldest son appear to be consouling (ph) him and also at another point Xi was seeing a pulling up the blanket on Jiang's widow when they were all waiting outdoors in Beijing's bitter cold winter weather.
 <br>[01:25:10]
 
Those moments were notable because Chinese leaders are usually very tightly scripted and stoic in public. Remember, not long ago, in October at the closing session of the party congress, one -- another top former leader Hu Jintao was unceremoniously led out of the meeting room. And when that happened, all the leaders seated on the stage really none of them showed an emotion.
 
So that episode obviously became an international mystery. But Hu Jintao did also show up at one of those memorial services to pay his final respects to Jiang Zemin, and also was seen as one of the only leader shaking hands with Jiang's widow.
 
But of course, John, all of these events are highly choreographed, and the display of emotions or reactions may be spontaneous or genuine. But the fact they ended up in state media coverage really seems to be a message from the party to highlight its unity, and its humanity. And that's, of course, all the more important after the recent wave of protests across the country, with some demonstrators calling for the party's ouster, as well as Xi's ouster. And not to mention of course, one thing worth remembering, despite all the talk about Xi Jinping eviscerating internal rivals within the party, including factions ones headed by Hu and Jiang. At the end of the, Jiang actually played an instrumental role in placing Xi where he is right now as China's current top leader, John.
 
VAUSE: Steven, thank you. Steven Jiang live for us there in Beijing. Well, production is slowly returning to full capacity at China's Foxconn one of the biggest tech producers in the world. The company was rattled last month by protests by workers against COVID lockdowns.
 
Foxconn says the situation is now being brought under control. Coming to the major hit as monthly revenue dropped 29 percent in November. Apple (ph) said the slowdown is affecting iPhone sales. Now it's really serious. The Wall Street Journal says Apple is trying to reduce its dependence on China by potentially expanding production in India and Vietnam.
 
It's seems Iranian officials had no need to push back on weakened media reports the morality police had been disbanded. And like other protests, so much of the world just didn't believe it anyway. Nor do they believe the ruling theocracy strict dress code like the hijab for women is under review. And the U.S. is going even further saying there's nothing to suggest Iran is improving its treatment of women. We'll see a deadly crackdown on protesters. More now from CNN's Melissa Bell.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): It was her death in the custody of Iran's morality police in September that led to the outpouring of grief and anger that has gripped an entire country. Demonstrations calling for justice for Mahsa Amini and for change that have now lasted for nearly three months. Anti-government protests led by women around the rallying cry woman life freedom and chance of death to the Supreme Leader.
 
But now signs of a possible shift in the government's hardline policy, Iran's Attorney General saying that the mandatory hijab law is now under review by the judiciary and parliament. But Iranian state media have pushed back strongly on his comments, noting that the force is part of the Interior Ministry and not the judiciary. The Interior Ministry has not responded to CNN requests for comment.
 
NEGAR MORTAZAVI, IRANIAN AMERICAN JOURNALIST: What one lawyer was saying is that the morality police has become so notorious and so a such a bad name that no official is willing to take responsibility for it essentially this official claiming that it has been disbanded. But what's important is that the law of the mandatory hijab which goes back to early 1980s on paper has not changed.
 
BELL: Speaking to CNN, women in Tehran was skeptical about the possibility of change.
 
It's the regime propaganda. They just changed the name of their forces as they did before. So the media would announce that they have backed down, then they continue all the brutal stuff they were doing
 
With Iran's hardline President Ebrahim Raisi hinting on Saturday that any reform may be limited in its scope.
 
EBRAHIM RAISI, IRANIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Iran's Republican and Islamic foundations are constitutionally entrenched, but there are methods of implementing the constitution that can be flexible.
 
BELL: The stance taken by several Iranian celebrities and athletes in support of the protests suggest the crucial barriers of fear of the regime may have been broken with a widening also of the protesters demands for more rights for women to the end of the regime itself. And a sense that any reforms it undertakes now may prove too little too late. Melissa Bell, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 <br>[01:29:44] 
 
VAUSE: Still ahead, up close and personal with Hawaii's Mauna Loa volcano, now in its second week of eruptions.
 
Also rescue workers digging for survivors after a landslide buried a bus full of passengers in Colombia. Those details also still to come.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back everyone. I'm John Vause. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Hawaii has activated the National Guard as lava from Mauna Loa inches closer to a major highway. 
 
For the very latest now, here's CNN's David Culver with a rare bird's eye view. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We are on the road before sunrise, quickly realizing we can already spot our destination some 30 miles out. There you see it, that red orange glow, Mauna Loa erupting. 
 
To give you a better view though, we go up in the morning dark. Paradise Helicopters' Darren Hamilton our pilot and guide giving us rare access. 
 
I assume we'll know when we see the volcano? 
 
DARREN HAMILTON, HELICOPTER PILOT: Yes, it's just off, kind of the eastern side there. At about the 1:00 position, that is the plume there. 
 
CULVER: Having flown in military hot zones, Darren even admits this is firepower like no other. 
 
What was it like the first time you flew over lava? 
 
HAMILTON: Oh, it was a blast. 
 
CULVER: It can also be challenging, especially with heavy vog or volcanic smog. 
 
HAMILTON: So there can see the gases from Fissure 3. 
 
CULVER: Those acidic gases are dangerous if the concentration levels are too high. 
 
On the ground, officials closely watching the lava's potential impact on Saddle Road, the main highway that connects the east and west of the island. 
 
Erupting last Sunday for the first time in 38 years, Mauna Loa, the world's largest active volcano, is one of five that make up Hawaii's Big Island.
 
And it's not the only one currently erupting. Neighboring Kilauea also active though no longer shooting lava to the surface like it did in 2018. 
 
DOROTHY THRALL, RESIDENT: We're on (INAUDIBLE) street which is where my house was at. And it's that way on the opposite side of the subdivision. 
 
CULVER: Dorothy Thrall us to where her home now sits buried under 60 feet of lava. You can see a metal streetlight fused into the rock. 
 
Four years after Kilauea did this to her Leilani Estates community, she still walks it as though she's on Herald Street with her old neighbors. 
 
When you have something like this, I assume you all disperse after that. 
 <br>[01:34:57]
 
THRALL: Yes. we lost our sense of community, that's what we lost in addition to the homes. 
 
CULVER: Mauna Loa's eruption, an emotional trigger for Dorothy and others forcing the trauma from the Kilauea back to the surface. 
 
The 2018 lava flow wiped out more than 600 homes here. Some untouched but left lava-locked. An island within the island. Dorothy showed us this video she captured a few weeks back, trekking over a lava rock, helping friends gather the last of their belongings from their home. The reminders of devastation here, hard to miss. 
 
THRALL: This was a home. They evacuated the second night. And I believe it went under the third night.
 
CULVER: And just took their home. 
 
THRALL: Just took their home. 
 
CULVER: Four years later it's still steaming? 
 
THRALL: Still steaming, yes. 
 
CULVER: How long will it stay like that? 
 
THRALL: Probably 30 to 40 years. 
 
CULVER: How is it that you can still see beauty after so much loss? 
 
THRALL: Because lava is beautiful. It's Pele's creation. That's how the island was formed. That's how the island was built. 
 
CULVER: An appreciation shared by native Hawaiians leaving offerings on Mauna Loa. And thousands of tourists and locals arriving past sunset just to witness the lava glow.
 
Nighttime traffic backs up for miles. To avoid the congestion, let's get back to the skies. 
 
HAMILTON: That's 2,000 to 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit or about 1,000 degrees Celsius. That's molten rock flowing like water. 
 
CULVER: Which has already crossed one volcano road, power lines and all. A searing slice right through it. 
 
It's incredible the heat you feel as soon as you get close to it.
 
And look at this, the rushing flow, the river. You see the current of lava.
 
Darren estimates it's moving 30 to 40 miles per hour. 
 
But this the source of it all. I mean there is nothing like this. Just spewing from the top. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CULVER: It really is just incredible to be up there and officials are saying that while it's moving quickly up there, as it gets closer to where we are, it's going to be flatter ground, starting to spread out. And the lava moving at about 40 feet per hour. Still though inching closer to that highway.
 
Officials saying that last check is about 2 miles away, something they're watching very closely. 
 
Back to you.
 
VAUSE: Thank you David.
 
Now, the eruption in Mauna Loa is causing another disruption and this one could affect climate records. Electricity as well as access has been cut to the world's oldest carbon dioxide monitoring station. The Mauna Loa Observatory maintains the so-called Keeling Curve which
 
 shows the rising carbon dioxide levels in the earth's atmosphere. "New York Times" reported officials might airlift a power generator to the site to try and get it back up and running. 
 
Well for more, joining me now from California is Jess Phoenix, a volcanologist and author of "Misadventure: My Wild Explorations in Science, Lava and Life". It's good to see you. It's been a while. 
 
JESS PHOENIX, VOLCANOLOGIST: Yes, good to see you to, John. And I'm happy it's about a pretty great eruption to witness. 
 
VAUSE: Yes. Well, first of all we'll get to that in a moment, but talk about this, you know, in the scheme of climate change, how significant is this Mauna Loa station, you know, being offline. And, how much of an early warning did it give (INAUDIBLE). 
 
PHOENIX: Well I hope that will take it seriously and work actually try and solve the issue. But in reality, it is a blip in the long history of the station. Plus, we have stations all around the world that are collecting similar data. 
 
This one just has particular significance in the study of climate change because it's been running for so, so long. It provides a really complete record of what's happened over most of the people are still around lifespan. 
 
VAUSE: And this is where we get the Keeling Curve, named after the guy who used to put all of this stuff together. And the Keeling Curve came from samples collected at Mauna Loa. There it is right now. It doesn't mean a lot to me so explain what am I looking at? 
 
PHOENIX: So basically earth's climate goes through seasonal fluctuations and these are normal so that's what you see, the up and down kind of zigzag little movement there. But you can see overtime that it trends up. And that means that we see increased carbon dioxide emission. And it really dovetails quite well with the increased carbon emission caused by humans. 
 
VAUSE: And as far as the eruption itself, which is underway. Well, there's this headline from WBRC (ph) in Hawaii. "As Mauna Loa eruption continues, officials pretty certain lava won't impact populated areas.
 
Is it possible they could turn that up a little?
 
PHOENIX: Not right now. I wish that we could but unfortunately volcanology is not a sure bet. We can tell when magma is moving around underground but we also don't know where the magma is all going. 
 
Right now, all of the seismic activity beneath the surface seems to be concentrated there in that northeast red zone.
 <br>[01:39:54]
 
PHOENIX: So for now, it seems like populated areas aren't at risk. But of course the volcanoes are going to do what the volcanoes are going to do and it's up to us to try and keep up.
 
VAUSE: And they're going to do what they're going to do. And right now, hotels are sold out It's the greatest show in town. There is a bunch of tourists who come in to (INAUDIBLE). Is that a good thing or a bad thing? 
 
PHOENIX: I think that as long as everybody is following the direction from the Hawaii civil defense and local folks on the ground who are in the know like the U.S. Geological Survey or local police, I think it's great because Hawaii can use the tourism and in terms of the economy.
 
And just showing more people the brilliance of our planet and what nature can actually do and how powerful it is and how small we are. 
 
When we're confronted with it, I think it's a good thing. It's a great lesson for anybody who takes the time to look.
 
VAUSE: As long as they follow directions because there's always a danger potentially and as long as they follow directions, because it's always a danger, potentially, at least.
 
And we should say Mauna Loa isn't the only show in town right now. Indonesia it seems as there's been a possible. It seems it's been a far more serious eruption. 
 
PHOENIX: Yes, well Indonesia, the thing is there, it is such a different style of volcanic eruption that it's much more explosive than your typical Hawaiian style eruption. So, anytime you have something going on in Indonesia, I always want to find out, what volcano is erupting and how big is the eruption because it is very populated through out lots Indonesia and these eruptions are ongoing. I mean it's very, very frequent.
 
So they're really used to it. Just like in Hawaii. You see people saying that lava is a way of life. 
 
VAUSE: And what impact though ultimately does this release of -- of volcanic stuff that you actually on the Atmospheric and climate change. 
 
Well, the good news is there's a volcanic eruptions actually have a net cooling effect, they create sort of a blanket that insulates the earth from the sun's rays. And, that is because they released small particulate matters up into the atmosphere.
 
Now the net cooling effect, it's not that big. And, even from a huge eruption much larger than anything that's going on right now. We would only see that effect for, at most, at a host a year to. So, it is kind of positive but I can tell, you for, sure that it's not negative and these volcanic eruptions are just part of the -- natural order of things 
 
VAUSE: The cycle of life. 
 
Jess -- thank you so much. 
 
PHOENIX: Yes. Great to see you John. 
 
VAUSE: Ok.
 
Take care. Bye.
 
Well, more than 30 people have died after a massive landslide. They're in a bus in western Colombia. Rescue workers have been digging through the mud for survivors 
 
Stefano Pozzebon has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN JOURNALIST: The heavy rainfall that hit the remote (ph) Colombian province of Risaralda (ph) on Sunday, triggered a landslide over (INAUDIBLE) provincial road that hit several vehicles killing dozens of people, according to Colombian authorities. 
 
The highly Colombian high risk management unit said that that over 70 rescue workers were still trying to secure the area as of Monday while at least six people have been treated in the hospital. 
 
And authorities vowed not to abandon those who have lost their loved ones. 
 
ALFONSO PRADA GILL, COLOMBIAN INTERIOR MINISTER: we will launch a comprehensive support plan for the relatives of the victims, psychological support, physical support, social support. 
 
Also, we are declaring a high alert across the entire nation due to this winter wave of rainfall. 
 
POZZEBON: The high alert means that rescue workers are on standby, ready to be activated in case the rains cause more havoc in the coming days. 
 
While on Tuesday, the Colombian president Gustavo Petro will personally chair an emergency having a share in unburden see cabinet session to devote more resources to the damaged communities. 
 
VAUSE: Well, when we come back, it's the election day again here in the U.S. state of Georgia. The final showdown in the 2022 midterm election that's underway in just a few hours. The very latest, when we come back. 
 <br>[01:44:01]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Well, it's Tuesday and voters in the U.S. state of Georgia will have their last chance to cast their ballots in a runoff election that will decide the final seat in the U.S. Senate. 
 
Ahead of that incumbent Democrat Raphael Warnock and his Republican challenger, Herschel Walker, made their closing pitch to voters and CNN's Jeff Zeleny has the very latest. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: One final day of overtime in Georgia. 
 
SENATOR RAPHAEL WARNOCK (D-GA): We are on the verge of victory. But I don't want us to do the victory dance before we actually get into the end zone. 
 
ZELENY: Senator Raphael Warnock exuding confidence, but warning Democrats against being complacent on the eve of this runoff against Republican challenger Herschel Walker. 
 
HERSCHEL WALKER (R), GEORGIA SENATE CANDIDATE: You can know you have a champion in Herschel Walker. 
 
ZELENY: With control of the Senate set to stay in Democratic hands, Walker implored Republicans to go to Washington to send him to Washington as a check on President Biden and his policies. 
 
WALKER: Vote, vote, vote. If you haven't voted -- tell them to go out and vote. 
 
ZELENY: It is the final big act of the 2022 midterm election with Georgia voters once again having the last word. 
 
More than 1.8 million have already cast ballots but both sides know the outcome depends on election day turnout on Tuesday. 
 
WARNOCK: If there is anything I'm worried about it's that people will think that we don't need their voice, we do. We need you to show up. 
 
ZELENY: Walker faces steep challenges in money and math. Democrats have more than double GOP ad spending over the last month alone, an astonishing $55 million to $26 million in TV spots that have flooded the Georgia airwaves to the total cost of nearly $81 million since November 9th. 
 
The former football great is also scrambling to overcome an extraordinary 200,000 vote shortfall of underperforming Republican Governor Brian Kemp in November, a deficit complicating his path. Walker supporters are keeping hope alive. 
 
Do you think more may come out to vote on Tuesday.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it will be a lot of us will vote. I think a lot of them have already gone and vote. We voted early this time. 
 
UUF: He's so good. I think he will pull it off. 
 
ZELENY: It is voters like John and Marty Haynes who keep the outcome of the runoff hanging in suspense since they are Republicans who have already voted. A sign that not only Democrats are casting their ballots early. 
 
WARNOCK: I think they're going to get this right. They know this race is about competence and character. And I remain hopeful that I will be able to continue to do this work for the next six years. 
 
ZELENY: The White House is also watching closely. A Warnock win it would give Democrats a 51 to 49 majority in the Senate, not only breathing room but protection for the president and his agenda from the Republican-controlled House. 
 
President Biden has been watching this race from afar, not traveling here to Georgia during this runoff period at the request of the Warnock campaign. Simply not popular in some circles. And as for former President Donald Trump, who called in through a tele-rally with supporters on Monday evening, also not campaigning in person. 
 
But one thing is clear, that turnout from both of the respected bases is so critical on Tuesday, the final gasp of along 2022 midterm election.
 
Jeff Zeleny, CNN -- Kennesaw, Georgia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Please stay with CNN for special coverage of the Georgia runoff set to start at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Tuesday.
 
South Africa's ruling party is standing by their embattled president. The African National Congress or ANC plans to vote against approval of a report into alleged corruption by Cyril Ramaphosa. That is if it comes to vote in parliament today. 
 <br>[01:49:51]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAUL MASHATILE, ACTING SECRETARY GENERAL, AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS: The ANC not take a decision that the president should step down. I would tell him that (INAUDIBLE) when we do this. Yes we do. 
 
We do because we weighed everything. Let the president continue with his responsibilities when we do this. Until such time that all these processes require that he can continue. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The report deals with the ongoing scandals linked to the theft of more than $500,000 in cash from Ramaphosa's private game farm back in 2020. Lawyers for the president have asked the country's highest court to dismiss that report. 
 
Well buckle up, royal watchers for the TV event that promises to rock Buckingham Palace this week. 
 
More on the Harry and Meghan docuseries when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: A much anticipated docuseries on the Duke and Duchess of Sussex hits Netflix this week. The trailer has dropped and in that, Harry implied viewers will learn the full truth about how ugly it can be behind the fairytale facade of life in the House of Windsor.
 
Max Foster has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: Buckingham Palace has been preparing for a bombshell docuseries it doesn't seem as though the Duke and Duchess of Sussex are going to disappoint if this trailer is anything to go by. 
 
PRINCE HARRY, DUKE OF SUSSEX: It is really hard to look back on it now and go what on earth happened. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you hear that, that is the sound of hearts working all around the world. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: She is becoming a royal rock star. 
 
MEGHAN MARKLE, DUCHESS OF SUSSEX: And then -- 
 
PRINCE HARRY: Everything changed. 
 
There's a horror rocking the family. There is leaking, but there's also planting of stories. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There is a war against Meghan to suit other people's agendas. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is about the truth. It's about race. 
 
PRINCE HARRY: It is a dirty game. 
 
FOSTER: The essence here is a fundamental accusation that's Buckingham Palace or elements within Buckingham Palace or the wider palace network were planting stories to undermine the duchess of Sussex. they weren't protecting her from the abuse she was receiving, or she felt she received from the British tabloids and on social media. 
 
So how is Bucking Palace or Kensington Palace likely to respond? We will have to wait and see. Under the queen they would tend to hold back and allow these accusations to sit it as they did after the infamous Oprah Winfrey interview. But this time, King Charles is in control and Prince William has been elevated to the Prince of Wales. So they may feel a need to respond this time if there are major accusations which the monarchy feels it needs to address within this docuseries. 
 
Six parts of it three parts of it dropping on Thursday. We will see the duke and duchess of Sussex out and about before then. they are in New York to receive a prestigious Robert F. Kennedy human rights award. 
 
The cameras will be out in force, capturing this moment before the landing of the big docuseries. 
 
Max Foster CNN -- London. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: The publishers of the Oxford English dictionary have chosen the word of the year -- it is actually two words. Kind of like something out of the "Lord of the Rings" here it is "goblin mode".
 
[01:54:54}
 
VAUSE: Apparently it's a slang term describing the state of being unapologetically self-indulgent, lazy, slovenly or greedy. 
 
And examples -- eating takeout in bed, not showering -- behaviors that became familiar to so many during pandemic lockdowns. Goblin mode is kind of the opposite of trying to (INAUDIBLE), it was chosen by the public for the first time. 
 
This seems like it is kind of fixed though because you have 90 percent of the votes and I've never heard of it. How about that. 
 
Well energy crisis be damned, this house in a town near Munich. The owner says he will continue his Christmas tradition to decorate the home with lots and lots and lots of holiday lights. He has been forced to make a few adjustments. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANFRED PRINGER, OWNER OF ILLUMINATED HOUSE (through translator): The electricity bill is obviously an issue I recently had a look at it and it cost rose drastically. But we switched to led lights, a only delights a while ago. We also try not to turn the lights on if it rains. We only turn them on when people show up, that is Friday Saturday and Sunday. If we see that no one is here, we turn them off. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The Munich Environment Institute says electricity for Christmas lights is not free. It actually does add to household energy consumption. Last year, an estimated almost 20 billion lights were turned on private in private houses, that is enough to power in mid sized city. But still some visitors to that German house think it is all worth it. 
 
BENEDETTA DELSOLE: : I find beautiful I come every year with the children no matter who comes to visit. Today it's is my nieces and my grandson. We've always come because every time it is different. I find it beautiful. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: In London the Royal Ballet is set to return to the stage with "The Nutcracker" after two holiday seasons of COVID disruptions. During the height of the pandemic, the (INAUDIBLE) show was modified. 
 
This year the Royal Ballet is back to a full fledged production. If you are not in London, cannot get to London, "The Nutcracker" will be broadcast live to theaters around the world on Thursday. One of the top dancers says she's ready to entertain audiences and
 
 play the Sugar Plum Fairy. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FUMI KANEKO, ROYAL BALLET PRINCIPAL DANCER: This part is one of the hardest roles for a ballerina. Every time I come back to this role I feel like I'm challenging every single time. So also, it is so much fun with this amazing music, and it carries me to go further and challenge myself every time. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The show runs from December 6th through January the 14th at the Royal Opera House. Look at those smiles.
 
Thank you for watching CNN NEWSROOM. I'm John Vause.
 
Please stay with us. My colleague and friend Rosemary Church is up after the break. 
 
See you right back here tomorrow. 
 <br>[01:57:41]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)