Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Detectives Apply for Search Warrants in North Carolina Substation Attack; Concerns Grows Over Military Readiness Amid Repeal of COVID Vaccine Mandate; At Least 13 Million Flu Cases So Far This Season; Croatia and Brazil in Epic Battle for Semifinal Spot in World Cup. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired December 09, 2022 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: Right now, in North Carolina, the power is back on, and authorities have applied for search warrants as they investigate who is behind the attack on the state's electric substations. Sources tell CNN authorities are honing in on two potential extremists' motives. CNN's Whitney Wild has the latest on the investigation. So, Whitney what more do we know about these search warrants? 
 
WHITNEY WILD, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CORRESPONDENT: At this point, we know very little. We just know that they have at least been applied for. We don't know if they have been approved. We don't know if they have been executed. We don't know how many, and we don't know what they're for, but what it does show, Bianna, is that law enforcement is continuing to move at a rapid pace. They're doing whatever they can to try and find the person or people responsible for shooting these substations Saturday night. For causing a massive power outage that lasted five days here in Moore County. 
 
Meanwhile, law enforcement really pushing the public to try to help them generate as many leads as possible. They're offering an up to $75,000 reward for any information leading to the arrest of the suspect or suspects responsible here. And Bianna, they're canvassing the area trying to collect as much video as possible. Video that from cameras that may be affixed to nearby homes, trying to collect as much information as they can. Possibly someone might have caught the suspect on video or would have otherwise relevant information. Law enforcement says that they are fielding hundreds of tips, Bianna. So, the hope is they will have a very solid break in this case very soon. Back to you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Keep us posted, Whitney, on anything that you hear as far as developments there. Thank you. 
 
Well, fresh off their repeal of the U.S. military COVID vaccine mandate, officials warn the move could have adverse effects on military readiness and ability to deploy around the world. 
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) GOLODRYGA: Military officials and expert are sounding the alarm over what could happen if the U.S. military's COVID vaccine mandate is repealed. Under the national defense funding bill that passed the House yesterday, servicemen and women would no longer be required to get their COVID shots. Joining us now is CNN's Oren Liebermann. So, Oren, what are officials most concerned about now? 
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Well, officials we spoke with can't think of an example and certainly not in recent memory in which a military vaccine requirement has been undone or rescinded in its entirety. Yes, there are certain vaccines that are required only for certain areas such as the anthrax vaccine. But the officials we spoke with can't remember an example in which the military or its civilian leadership in Congress has simply said, this vaccine mandate is no longer required. 
 
Now the military is waiting to see what the final wording here is, and that's because slight changes to the wording as it goes through the amendments process could change the effect it has on the military. But there are already a number of ripple effects that the military and the services are preparing for. 
 
The first one -- and this is a key question -- is readiness. If you have a force that's not vaccinated against COVID and you suddenly have an outbreak as we've seen both in the military and in the civilian world, that might affect a unit's ability to be deployed if you have a number of people who are sick, whether that's an emergency situation or simply as part of an exercise, and that gets to the heart of the military. 
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
The military's ability to maintain its readiness. So, that's one key question. 
 
There's also the question of deploy ability. Can you deploy soldiers who are not vaccinated or other service members? And that's especially to countries that host tens of thousands of service members and require the vaccines such as South Korea or Japan. So, that's another key issue where this might have an effect. 
 
Now it is of course, necessary to note that all of the services in terms of their vaccination rates are in the high 90s -- 96, 97, 98 percent. But there are still 8,000 service members who have been separated because of the mandate and a number of others who are going through religious accommodation requests. 
 
One of the other key questions here, Bianna, is the precedent that this sets if this is simply overturned. Do service members look at this and say, I might not have to follow a lawful order as long as there is some political charge to it or a question over whether it really is a lawful order, whether that's a legitimate question or not. All of this is what the military is looking at, as this plays out on The Hill. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, and you touched on this earlier, but what happens to those 8,000 or so service members that have either -- that have been discharged over the vaccine and not taking it? 
 
LIEBERMANN: At the time moment, that's an open question because it depends on the language that comes in the National Defense Authorization Act. But there are a group of Republicans who are pushing for them to be reinstated with back pay over the course of the last several months. So that is one possibility that the Pentagon may be preparing for. But again, it depends on the wording which is why the Pentagon is being very careful in what it says at this point. 
 
GOLODRYGA: All right, we'll be watching closely. Oren Liebermann, thank you. 
 
Well, from coast to coast, cases of the flu are surging. Today the CDC said more than a third of flu-related hospitalizations and deaths were reported in just the last week. CNN's Jacqueline Howard joins us to break down the numbers. So, Jacqueline, I know health officials are bracing for a possible surge in hospitalizations after the holidays. What are they telling you? 
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: That's right, Bianna. I'm hearing that there is a lot of concern and the reason why flu activity here in the United States is still very high. And here are the latest numbers from the CDC released just this morning. So, we do know that so far at least there have been 13 million flu illnesses. About 120,000 people have been hospitalized due to flu, and we know there have been 7,300 deaths and sadly, Bianna, 21 of those were pediatric deaths, so in children. So, that's where we are right now. 
 
And if you look at this map of respiratory virus activity across the country, all but seven states as you see on this map are experiencing high or very high levels of activity. The blue is the highest, and then the dark red is where there's high activity, and only seven states, again, are not having this high to very high respiratory activity happening. 
 
So, we are hearing from many health officials across the country. They're encouraging people, get your flu shot if you haven't already. Of course, follow this mitigation measures that we all know like washing your hands frequently, and some health officials are encouraging people to put masks back on. And even in New York City, the health department there is urging residents to wear masks indoors while in public, and in crowded public places because of these high levels of respiratory virus activity right now, Bianna. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. I can just say anecdotally, that's going to be a lot harder to get people to put their masks back on, the ones they have taken off the past few months. 
 
And we also know that there's an update on Pfizer's two-in-one flu and COVID vaccine. What can you tell us about that? 
 
HOWARD: That's right. So, what we do know is that Pfizer and BioNTech are developing this combination COVID and flu vaccines. So, as we get our annual flu shots and as we COVID shots, you could get a two in one. And what we've heard is that the FDA has agreed to fast track the review of this vaccine. What this means is that while they review the data, it will be an expedited process so that we could see sooner than later this process of Pfizer applying for authorization for this combo vaccine. 
 
And Bianna, I can tell you that we've been hearing from several vaccine developers about this combination approach. Novavax is another company that's working on a combo flu and COVID vaccine. So, moving forward as we see this possibly develop into an annual shot, we could be getting our flu shot and our COVID shots in one moving forward -- Bianna. 
 
Yes, streamlining it would be a game changer. That is true. Jacqueline Howard, thank you. 
 
HOWARD: Absolutely. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, the FIFA World Cup semifinals are starting to take shape as Croatia stages a stunning -- I mean stunning comeback and beats Brazil. We'll tell you the details to that game straight ahead.
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
GOLODRYGA: The quarterfinals are under way right now in the World Cup with the Netherlands battling Argentina for a spot in the semifinals. Now earlier today, there was an epic showdown between Croatia and Brazil that went to extra time and penalty kicks. Brazil's championship dreams were ultimately crushed though. 
 
CNN's World Sport anchor Patrick Snell is following all of this for us. Patrick, it's over for Brazil. I thought Neymar was going all the way. I still, to be honest with you, I hadn't forgiven Croatia for beating my sweetheart team in that was Japan. But talk about what was happening and what's happening right now. 
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: Oh, Bianna, yes, a dramatic day. Another one at the FIFA World Cup. Heartbreak for Neymar and Brazil right now. 
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
But I want to get viewers updated on the very latest, another enthralling match taking place. Argentina, Lionel Messi and Argentina, currently 2-1 up against the Netherlands. I'm just glancing at the game as we speak. Lionel Messi, the iconic superstar, with a penalty La Albiceleste, but Wout Weghorst just got one back there for the Netherlands giving them real hope with just minutes in that one. 
 
Earlier, heartbreak as you said for the Brazilians against Croatia. What a story through Croatia is. A population of just 4 million people. And yet since they competed in their first ever World Cup -- that was in France '98 -- they've now got to three semifinals at least in the span of 24 years, incredible stuff. And all of this after they went 1-0 down. Because Neymar scored the first goal of that game in extra time, approaching halftime of extra time. A wonderful goal from Neymar. But then the Croatians gets back in it. Three minutes from the end of extra time and the 170th minute Bruno Petkovic scoring for the Croatians with his first shot on goal. It goes to the penalty shootout. 
 
Heartbreak for the Brazilians because they missed two crucial ones. Those are the scenes right there in Rio de Janeiro as their fans cannot believe it. Bianna, they are in total shock. They were overwhelming favorites to win it. It wasn't meant to be like that. 
 
And this the other side of the coin in Zagreb a short while ago today. Croatian fans not able to believe it, I don't think. Because not too many thought they were going to get through. But I tell you what, you should never underestimate the Croatians. Who will they play in the semifinals? We shall see. Back to you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, I mean the streets of Brazil are just I would imagine quiet, quiet right now. 
 
SNELL: Somber. 
 
GOLODRYGA: And in Argentina, they are watching very closely as well in these final two minutes or so. So, we know we have two more big quarterfinals tomorrow. Tell us about that. 
 
SNELL: Yes, we certainly do and we are keeping a very close eye on these two games. I make no apology to tell you, I'll be following my beloved England. England is taking on the defending champions, France and Kylian Mbappe. That should be a great one there. England looking to win it for the first time since '66 -- 1966, I should make that clear. And also -- but Morocco as well, Bianna, just an incredible story. Morocco taking on Portugal. And Morocco who were ever the first Arab nation to get through to the last state, seeking to become the first African nation to get to the semifinals of the World Cup. They take on Portugal. Big question no, Bianna, will Cristiano Ronaldo actually start the game in that one? We shall see. Back to you.
 
GOLODRYGA: I don't know. I'm sort of sick of his antics. I think they did just fine without him. 
 
SNELL: More than did, right.
 
GOLODRYGA: We will be watching and rooting. Patrick Snell, thank you. 
 
Well, Arizona Senator Kyrsten Sinema leaving the Democratic Party and registering as an independent. What this means for Democrats who just secured a slim majority in the Senate. That straight ahead. 
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: For many, this time of year is about giving back. But CNN Heroes, an All-Star tribute salutes ten extraordinary people who put others first all year long. The star-studded gala airs live this Sunday at 8:00 p.m. Eastern. Have a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNOUNCER: Sunday, it's the time of year to be inspired and honor some of humanity's best.
 
NORA EL-KHOURI SPENCER, HOPE RENOVATIONS: We have found homes for almost 3,000 dogs. 
 
TYRIQUE GLASGOW, YOUNG CHANGES FOUNDATION: Our community center used to be the community drug house.
 
BOBBY WILSON, METRO ATLANTA URBAN FARM: I want my grandchildren to have it better than what I have it today.
 
RICHARD CASPER, CREATIVETS: I just always wanted to serve other people.
 
TERESA GRAY, MOBILE MEDICS INTERNATIONAL: Human suffering has no borders. People are people and love is love.
 
ANNOUNCER: Join Anderson Cooper and Kelly Ripa live as they present the 2022 Hero of the Year.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Join me --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- in honoring --
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR, "A.C. 360": -- CNN Hero of the Year.
 
ANNOUNCER: "CNN Heroes, An All-Star Tribute," Sunday at 8:00.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLODRYGA: That's an inspirational story and inspirational people. Don't miss CNN's heroes, and All-Star Tribute, this Sunday at 8 p.m. Eastern only here on CNN.
 
Well, for the first time ever, U.S. currency will bear the signatures of not one but two women. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and U.S. Treasurer Lynn Malerba. Both were at the Fort Worth Bureau of Engraving and printing to do the honors. Yellen is the country's first female Treasury Secretary, Malerba is the first Native American to have her signature on U.S. currency. Yellen says she spent some, quote, quality time practicing her signature -- her penmanship I should note is phenomenal. The new one dollar and five dollar bills will go into circulation next month. 
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
And someone just paid a an astronomical amount of money for some old bones. OK, not just any old bones we're talking about. This is a 200 pound T.Rex skull dubbed "Maximus." It was discovered in South Dakota a couple of years ago and is about 76 million years old. Today it sold at Sotheby's Auction for a little over $6 million. The auction house was expecting to fetch up to 20 million. 6 million is still a lot of dough, though. 
 
Thank you so much for joining me today. "THE LEAD" starts right now.