Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Energy Department Announces Clean Energy Holy Grail; Biden Speaks About Lower-Than-Expected Inflation Numbers; Visa Program for Afghan Allies Who Helped U.S. in Danger of Lapsing. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired December 13, 2022 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:30:00]
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR:  In practical terms, how big is this when you look at it, what could it mean for us?
 
MICHIO KAKU, PROFESSOR OF THEORITICAL PHYSICS, CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK:  This is potentially huge. The Holy Grail for energy research has been to try to put the sun in a bottle. And every time we did that, it consumed more energy than it outputted. But this time, by firing 200 or so laser beams at a pellet the size of a pea, they were able to extract more energy than they put into it.
 
Now, this means that, who knows, maybe by mid century we'll have fusion plants dotting the country side. This is step one. Step two is to scale it up, scale it up so we could energize an entire city with a fusion plant. Then step three is to commercialize it. And by mid century it could help to save us from global warming and another energy crisis. So, this is a game-changer.
 
HILL:  It is a game-changer. I mean, mid century, so that is really not that far away if we're already at 2022. If we're looking out 20, 25 years, as to how quickly we could harness this power. That was one of the first thoughts I had, is, okay, this is great that it happened, how soon could we see it in practice? So, you talk about building those necessary, I guess, power plants, for lack of a better term.
 
Would other things need to change? And I say that in thinking about this push for electric cars, where we're seeing you can't obviously go to the gas station, we have to build charging stations. What else would we have to ramp up? What would change?
 
KAKU:  Well electric cars have a weak spot and that is where does electricity for an electric car come from. It comes from a coal- burning power plant. So, an electric car in the long-term doesn't really help you in terms of reining in carbon dioxide. But now we're talking about sea water. Hydrogen from sea water would be the basic fuel for a fusion reactor. No carbon dioxide, plus no meltdowns and no accumulation of large quantities of nuclear waste.
 
I mean, this is the ideal source of energy, no meltdowns, no nuclear waste and energy from sea water. And so this is a game-changer. But it will take a few decades to commercialize it. So, don't expect the fusion plant to open up in your backyard any time soon. HILL:  Okay. But we're looking at it, is there enough sea water to support this? I know there is a lot of water on the planet, but I also know how fragile things are at the moment.
 
Oh, we may have lost Dr. Kaku. But we always love having him on with us so I'm sure we'll be getting him back soon. Jim?
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR:  Still ahead, Republicans in Congress are considering ending the special immigrant visa program, which have been designed to help Afghans who helped worked and alongside U.S. forces. They missed a chance to extend it last week.
 
Stand by, actually, we have the president at White House now about to sign some pivotal legislation.
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  New that provides a reason for some optimism for the holiday season and I would argue for the year ahead. And we learned last month inflation rate came down, down more than experts expected. In a world where inflation is rising in double- digits in many major economies around the world, inflation is coming down in America. In fact, this new report is the fifth month in a row where annual inflation has fallen in the United States.
 
Inflation outside of food and energy, a key measure that economists use, also fell. Make no mistake, prices are still too high. We have a lot more work to do. But things are getting better, headed in the right direction.
 
Most Americans could see the progress driving down the street finding relief at the pump as gas prices fall. Gas prices are now lower than they were a year ago and half of the gas stations selling gas are selling gas at $3.09 or less. The most common price for gas stations across the country is $2.99. The decline in gas prices is giving consumers a break. They need to help keep our economy going. A two-car family, they're saving hundreds of dollars a month. It is a big deal.
 
Today's report conveys another piece of good news. Food inflation has slowed last month providing much-needed relief for millions of families at the grocery store. This is welcome news for families across the country as they get ready for the holiday celebrations and for family dinners.
 
It is also important that we put today's news in a broader context. When I took office, we inherited a nation with a pandemic raging and an economy that was reeling. We acted quickly and boldly to vaccinate the country and to put in place a new economic strategy, a strategy built on an economy that was based on from the bottom up and the middle out.
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
Now, 21 months later, we can see how our economic plan is working. We've added -- every single month of my presidency, we've added jobs, a total of 10,500,000 new jobs. 750,000 of them are manufacturing jobs. Where is it written, as you've heard me say it before and I apologize for repeating it, where is written that America can't lead the world again once again in manufacturing? And, by the way, remember, I talked at length about the need to continue to invest in research and development. Look what's going on from the Department of Energy in the nuclear front. There is a lot of good news on the horizon.
 
The unemployment rate is down to 6.4 percent. When I was sworn in -- down from 6.4 percent when I was sworn in. It is now at 3.7 percent, near a 50-year low. We've done all of this while lowering the federal deficit and the two years we've been in office $1.7 trillion. Let me say that again, $1.7 trillion. We've lowered the federal debt. No administration has ever cut the deficit that much.
 
Now, inflation is coming down as well. Prices of things like televisions and toys are going down. It is good news for the holiday season. Used car prices fell for the fifth month in a row. New car prices didn't go up this month. That savings is critical to so many families. It gives them just a little bit of breathing room for the holiday season.
 
And all of this means that for the last several months, wages have gone up more than prices have gone up. Wages have gone up more than prices have gone up. And I want to be clear, it is going to take time to get inflation back to normal levels as we make to transition to a more stable and steady growth. But we could see setbacks along the way as well. We shouldn't take anything for granted. But what is clear is my economic plan is working and we're just getting started.
 
My goal is simple. Get price increases under control without choking off economic growth. Bring inflation down while keeping our labor market resilient. Build an economy from the bottom up and the middle out, an economy with good job, good wages, and for the long run, not a boom or bust economy.
 
Because of my plan, we're beginning to see historic investments that are leading companies to invest hundreds of billion dollars. Let me say that again, hundreds of billion dollars to build semiconductor factories, another advance manufacturing right here in America. It is going to create tens of thousands of good paying jobs in the years ahead. And by the way, a significant number of the jobs are expected to be jobs that pay an average of $125,000 a year. Many don't require a college degree. So, things are looking up.
 
So, what is next? Because of my plan, we're taking powerful interest to lower -- powerful action to lower prescription drug costs and health insurance premiums and energy bills. In just a few weeks, starting in January, families will get a little more breathing room.
 
They've been told for some time since we passed the legislation that we're going to be able to lower the price of drugs. Let me give you this one example. Coming January 1, seniors with diabetes on Medicare are going to pay no more than $35 a month for prescription of insulin. Up to now, they've been paying as much as $400 a month. That is a genuine savings for seniors. This matters to so many families with loved ones who have diabetes and rely on insulin to survive, going from average of $400 down to $35 a month.
 
In January, they won't have to choose between paying for their insulin and in many cases putting food on the table. It matters. It is real savings to people. And it is just about to kick in. The same is true from health care to clean energy. By taking action, we're making real progress in strengthening and stabilizing our economy, giving Americans across country some breathing room in the process.
 
Look, I know it has been a rough few years for hard working Americans and for small businesses as well, and for a lot of folks, things are still pretty rough, but there are bright spots all across America where we're beginning to see the impact of our economic strategy. And we're just getting started.
 
I've said it again, I've never been more optimistic about America's future. And today's news gives me another reason to be optimistic about this future. We're building a better America, an economy from the bottom up and the middle out, not the top down. When the poor have a shot, middle class do well, the wealthy always do very well. We just have to keep going. I know we could get this done.
 
God bless you and may god protect our troops. And I'll take questions.
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
I'm going to be seeing you all a little later this afternoon. I'm not taking any questions right now. Thank you very much.
 
REPORTER:  And you said, when do you expect prices to get back to normal, Mr. President?
 
BIDEN:  I hope --
 
HILL:  The president there reacting --
 
BIDEN:  -- much closer but I can't make that prediction. I'm convinced they're not going to go up. I'm convinced they're going to kick in from there.
 
REPORTER:  Do you veto the NDAA over the vax requirement?
 
SCIUTTO:  His answer there, he was asked on his way out, when does he expect prices to come down, because, of course, this is slowing inflation increase, right? It is not prices actually going down. He said he's not going to make a prediction there.
 
HILL:  Yes. But he's convinced he said they're not going to go up.
 
Chief Business Correspondent Christine Romans here with us watching as well. You were noting as we were sitting here watching this together, you were also watching really closely the markets. They opened, they were up more than 500 points, about 1.5 percent, still in positive territory here.
 
ROMANS:  Yes. It started out as a good morning in the markets because the investors were encouraged by that cooler than expected inflation report. And the president trying to use that as a backdrop for the other things he's done that he says are going to make your bills better. He talked about insulin payments and hje talked health care premiums and the like.
 
So many of the things that his team touts as success have been drowned out by really high inflation numbers, he hasn't been able to seize that narrative. And today with cooler than expected inflation, you could see the team trying to do that. 7.1 percent inflation, guys, that is much better than we've seen over the past few months but it's still a problematic number. And his treasury chief has said that we'll start to see those numbers continue to come down next year, too.
 
SCIUTTO:  Christine, last year, Fed and others said prices were going to slow. They were wrong, right? I mean, they were wrong. In fact, prices went way up. Folks watching at home, should they be more confident today in the direction of prices than we were last year?
 
ROMANS:  Look, it is too soon to declare victory over inflation. Case in point, what happened last year when the smartest people in the room said that inflation would be transitory, they were wrong. That is why you have to look at the trends, and we can see this curving of this peaking of inflation here, but never say never. We hope that the worst of the inflation is in the rearview mirror.
 
We also know, Jim, that there is a lot of interest rate hikes that haven't worked their way through the economy yet. That is still coming. So, the hope here is that this fed medicine will really start to continue to work and cool off inflation.
 
HILL:  We will be watching. Christine, I appreciate it, as always. Stay with us. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
SCIUTTO:  You may have heard of the special immigrant visa program or SIV program. It resettles Afghans and their families, these are Afghans who face enormous risk because they served the U.S. military and other U.S. government agencies during the war there. Well, that program could soon be coming to an end. This after language extending the program passed 2023 was removed from the National Defense Authorization Act text, which came out last Tuesday. Last hour, I asked Congressman and Marine Corps Vet Seth Moulton for his reaction to that program possibly going away. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. SETH MOULTON (D-MA):  It is a betrayal not only of our Afghan allies but of our own troops, of our troops, like myself, who made that promise, that if you come and work for us, if you put your life on the line for America, we will have your back.
 
They're risking lives, not just Afghan lives but American lives by this anti-immigrant, frankly, outright racist approach to this problem. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO:  Strong words.
 
Joining me now to discuss is Travis Peterson, he's a retired Air Force master sergeant who has been worked to support America's allies who he fought alongside with there. Good to have you on. Thanks for taking the time this morning.
 
MASTER SGT. TRAVIS PETERSON (RET.), U.S. AIR FORCE:  Good morning, Jim, and thank you.
 
SCIUTTO:  So, first, I wonder if you can give your reaction to what Congressman Moulton said. Do you share that the failure to help these folks, many of whom face a threat from the Taliban, is a betrayal not just them but of you and other veterans who fought alongside of them and some who gave their lives?
 
PETERSON:  Yes, 100 percent, I agree with him largely. And you can feel the pain and anger in his voice and just like you can in mine and every other vets.
 
SCIUTTO:  Sorry, go ahead. I was going to say, because I've spoken to veterans like yourself who say this contributes to your PTSD. It causes genuine stress, not just heartbreak, but genuine stress. Can you describe that to folks at home?
 
PETERSON:  Yes, absolutely. And I hate the word, PTSD. It is a single event of something that happened. Moral injury is what we're looking for and that is a multitude for years and years. Like I was saying, I've spent 20 years taking orders and following through those orders to co-locate and fight alongside our Afghan brethren and sisters and make relationships, and we did that, and forced those in blood. And in the end, we ended up giving it all back and we left them hanging.
 
And that to me is a daily kill shot for me and many veterans like us. We don't know what we did. What did we give up our mental state for, limbs, lives, and why our kids are fatherless and motherless now?
 <br>[10:50:06]
 
Go ahead and answer that question. We've had three administrations that have failed us on that answer.
 
And now, we look at Afghanistan alone. It is a safe haven for terrorists. We basically retreated. We had an explosion that killed 13 service members on the 22nd. And then we left three or four days later with the Taliban surrounding the airport, the ones that we've been fighting.
 
So, yes, it is -- how do you identify with that? And it just -- the hits just keep coming. The SIV program is the latest hit. We haven't had any wins. It is all losses. So, yes, we're disappointed.
 
SCIUTTO:  I know that you keep in touch with Afghans still stuck in the country, folks that you fought alongside who also made great sacrifices themselves. And I know from speaking to folks in the same category that they're afraid the Taliban is hunting them down. What do they say to you about --
 
PETERSON:  Well, it is not even them being afraid. That is happening. It is happening daily. Yes, I'm in contact with all of my Afghans that fought alongside of me and many others from other organization that our government promised they would be taken care of for supporting us in our efforts.
 
But, yes, it is a daily, a daily threat and we hide them every day. We move them. We try to keep them safe. It is not a veteran out there that will say, yes, just leave them behind. It is not our problem. It is not how we operate and that is not how we -- SCIUTTO:  The trouble, of course, is that, I mean, even the folks who
 
 have been approved for special immigrant visas, there is an enormous backlog, some 50,000 primary approved applicants and their family members still waiting to get on a flight. And when those flights are running, they stopped for the World Cup. It is only about 250 people a week. It could take four years to get just those folks out. You can't do what you're doing forever and they can't run from the Taliban forever. So, what does it mean for them?
 
PETERSON:  I've preached that from day one. It takes a president's signature, one signature and we can have this done. And it is a different program, right? It is getting people out. It is saving lives. This isn't immigration we're talking about. This is saving lives.
 
And we had plans that we presented numerous times of how to do this. And you're correct, we don't have four years. I can't keep doing this. I can't put my life on hold. Every other volunteer is probably doing, putting their lives on hold.
 
So, we're asking the government to create a program. Look at the guys that fought with us. They're not qualified for SIVs. They don't qualify. So, create a program and make them eligible. We have the vetting capabilities. If I vouch for someone, if a veteran has vouched you for someone, if a civilian has vouched you for someone, you know, go with that. Start there. And start with small amounts. We're not looking to get the entirety of Afghanistan out. We're looking to get, as I know, and brothers and sisters like me fought with. They know it personally.
 
SCIUTTO:  Start with one, right? That makes a difference. Well, Travis Peterson, I and I'm sure folks watching appreciate your service to this country but also your efforts on the part of the many Afghans you served with. Thanks so much.
 
PETERSON:  Thank you, Jim, I appreciate it.
 
SCIUTTO:  A note. I wrote a piece about this. It's up on cnn.com right now about the struggle of just one family, and this is one family of thousands trying to flee Afghanistan. Take a few minutes to read it because you'll get a real sense of the frustration and the danger.
 
HILL:  Yes, absolutely. And it is just one family, an important piece. Just ahead here, Nancy Pelosi's daughter opening up about the attack on her father, Paul Pelosi. How the family is now coping the trauma, the lingering trauma of it all. Hear more from her interview with CNN This Morning.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
HILL:  Nancy Pelosi's daughter is speaking out today about the brutal attack on her father, Paul, the impact it had as well on her mother's political future. She joined Don Lemon to talk a little bit about how the family is coping during his recovery. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEXANDRA PELOSI, DAUGHTER OF NANCY AND PAUL PELOSI:  He went out to the Kennedy Center honors and my friends were all saying, this is so great, he's back. But these are long -- I mean, traumatic brain injury is not something that just goes away and the threats haven't gone away. So, we're still living with this every day.
 
And I don't know how these things heal. I mean, this is a very long- term recovery.
 
What I'm wrestling with is, was this worth it, for my family, what we went through? Was it worth it? Now, my parents would say, yes. My father, after all he's been through, he would say, yes. And my mother, of course, she would say, I'm proud of my wounds, because she's proud of the life that she's lived. But for the family, the families are the ones that pay the highest price for this kind of life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
SCIUTTO:  Indeed. Alexandra Pelosi is releasing a new documentary on HBO Max tonight about her mother's life and political service.