Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Tornadoes Tear Across Louisiana; Jill Biden "All In" on Potential Biden Run for Reelection; Pelosi Attacker Also Targeted Hunter Biden, Gavin Newsom, Tom Hanks; Prince Harry Says Brother 'Screamed' at Him Over Royal Split; Musk Suspends User Who Tracked Jet Despite 'Free Speech' Vow. Aired 6-6:30a ET

Aired December 15, 2022 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR/CORRESPONDENT: Christine, a few weeks ago, you know, there was so much snow on the ground there in Buffalo, they had to move the game to Detroit. Looks like we're going to have a fun night, though, there on Saturday night game against the Dolphins and the Bills.
 <br>[06:00:11]
 
Week 15 starts tonight, Niners and Seahawks. 
 
CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR: Those cold, snowy games are just epic. You know, you think of Lambeau, and Smelter Field, and all the places you can really be cold. All right. We'll watch for that. Thanks so much, Andy Scholes. 
 
SCHOLES: All right.
 
ROMANS: Thanks for joining me. I'm Christine Romans. CNN THIS MORNING starts right now. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN BOEHNER (R), FORMER SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE: And Madam Speaker, I have to say, my girls told me, Tell the speaker how much we admire her. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning there. 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: That was so great. 
 
LEMON: You think so? 
 
HARLOW: Yes. I think so. 
 
LEMON: This was the former House speaker. He's taken us back, because he used to get emotional. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: Yes. That was actually from yesterday. That wasn't a flashback from years past. It might be confusing if you haven't had a cup of coffee yet. That actually was yesterday. LEMON: Good morning. That was the former House speaker, John Boehner, getting emotional during a tribute to Nancy Pelosi. More on that in just a moment.
 
But this morning, we need to tell you about these tornados that have torn through Louisiana, leaving behind major destruction. Multiple people are injured. An 8-year-old is dead. We have more on the ground. 
 
HARLOW: Also, we do have new details on the man who attacked Paul Pelosi. Who else investigators say he had on his hit list. 
 
Plus this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MEGHAN, DUCHESS OF SUSSEX: And I realized that I wasn't just being thrown to the wolves. I was being fed to the wolves.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
COLLINS: That's Meghan, out with the new insights on what happened behind the scenes with the royal family and what Harry says William did that, quote, "terrified" him. 
 
LEMON: All of that in just a moment, btu we're going to begin with a state of emergency in tornado-ravaged Louisiana.
 
This morning, at least three people are dead, including a mother and her 8-year-old son, their bodies ripped from their home and found in the streets more than half a mile away. 
 
Nearly 50 tornados have been reported across the South so far, 16 of them in Louisiana. 
 
This video you're looking at shows a tornado blowing through the city of Arabi, kicking up debris and taking out power lines.
 
And in Marrero, near New Orleans, a tornado slammed into this Winn- Dixie grocery store completely ripping off the roof, leaving behind a path of destruction. 
 
At this hour, more than 50,000 people are without power, and a lot of folks are very shaken up. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAUNE PIERRE, ST. CHARLES PARISH RESIDENT: We got inside and, like, five minutes later, all hell broke loose. It just sounded like -- it sounded like a bomb went off here.
 
A'ZEALYA WHITE, ST. CHARLES PARISH RESIDENT: My brother, he runs in front of me, and then, as we're running, we just hear a whole bunch of boom. And then everything, like we heard a roof lifting, and he's lifted off his feet. And he grabbed onto the -- to the door frame. And as he was grabbing on, I'm falling off that side of the trailer. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON: Let's get to the ground now. CNN's Nick Valencia, live for CNN this morning in Gretna, Louisiana. 
 
Nick, good morning to you. Just how bad is it on the ground there?
 
NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, good morning, Don. 
 
Just take a look at some of this damage left behind by a tornado that directly hit this community in Gretna, Louisiana. It's one of the many communities across the state hit by a large outbreak of tornados, which is rare for this time of year. 
 
So rare, in fact, that some of the residents that we spoke to say, well, they were aware that there was going to be some severe weather in the area. They never expected to take a direct hit.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, that's a tornado heading our way. 
 
VALENCIA (voice-over): Extreme weather wreaking havoc in Louisiana after more than a dozen tornados were reported across the region Wednesday. 
 
Killona residents in St. Charles Parish witnessed a tornado tear through their neighborhood in a matter of seconds. 
 
PIERRE: It shook us and knocked us down, but then, when I walked over, I seen [SIC] all the damage on the street and I just can't believe it. This happened, like, eight seconds. Eight seconds it took to do this.
 
VALENCIA (voice-over): One woman described the moment a tornado hit her family's home. 
 
WHITE: I just hear a whole bunch of booming against the wall. And then, as I'm running out, my brother, he runs in front of me. And then, as we're running, we just hear a whole bunch of boom, and then everything, like, we hear the roof lifting, and he's lifted off his feet. And he grabbed onto the -- to the door frame. 
 
VALENCIA (voice-over): Jefferson Parish was hard-hit and left in the dark. 
 
SCOTT WALKER, JEFFERSON PARISH COUNCILMAN: In this path that we saw, there were a lot of power lines down. And that's not going to happen quickly, the restoration there. 
 
CYNTHIA LEE SHENG, JEFFERSON PARISH RESIDENT: People want to help themselves. People are already in the dark, trying to clean their houses, pull -- pull stuff to the driveway. It's very sad that we're dealing with this in December when we thought we got through the hurricane season OK. 
 
VALENCIA (voice-over): A tornado touched down in the city of Gretna. I toured the homes destroyed in the immediate aftermath. ALTON JONES, GRETNA, LOUISIANA, RESIDENT: The noise that it made, it
 
 was unreal. 
 
I was looking out the window at first, and I just got out the window. You know, I mean, I was panicking, you know, and I just started saying my prayers. 
 <br>[06:05:08]
 
VALENCIA (voice-over): I spoke to some of the neighborhood's youngest about the experience. 
 
JOERELL BERRYHILL, GRETNA, LOUISIANA, RESIDENT: I thought it was an explosion, and then my mama told me to get down. 
 
VALENCIA (voice-over): Another two tornados touched down in New Iberia, causing damage to a medical center and destroying many homes. 
 
M. LARRY RICHARD, PRESIDENT, IBERIA PARISH: We had mobile homes flipped, houses just completely destroyed, families all torn apart. It's going to take a while before people are going to be -- things are going to be back to normal. 
 
VALENCIA (voice-over): New Iberia resident Lizzie Taylor says she will now have to move. 
 
LIZZIE TAYLOR, NEW IBERIA RESIDENT: That tornado that I thought we were safe from destroyed our house. Destroyed our everything. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VALENCIA (on camera): And just to give you an extent -- a sense of the extent of the damage, this used to be a church. You know, the water is still pouring down. You can see the roof has been partially torn off. And the side of the building here is just left in tatters. 
 
You know, a lot of this community looks like this, block after block. There's a lot of homes in this area that we were in last night still without power. More emergency crews are going to be canvassing the area, looking for, making sure everyone is accounted -- making sure everyone is accounted for. 
 
But later today, we expect an update from Governor John Bel Edwards to give us, you know, more information on the extent of the damage, Don. 
 
LEMON: Just horrific. Nick Valencia in Gretna, Louisiana. Thank you, Nick. 
 
COLLINS: The Democratic Party is still waiting on a formal announcement from President Biden about whether or not he is running for re-election. But it now appears that one of the most influential people in his life is all-in. 
 
CNN has now learned that first lady Jill Biden is supportive of her husband running for another term. This comes as a new CNN poll shows that 59 percent of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say they'd actually like to see someone other than Biden at the top of the ticket. 
 
But a majority of those voters say they'd vote for him in the general election if he won their party's primary. 
 
CNN's Kate Bennett has this reporting. She joins us now.
 
Kate, what are you learning about how the first lady has gone from maybe to actually supporting this run? 
 
KATE BENNETT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, she's taken into account the last month or so of Joe Biden's presidency. You know, we saw those midterm elections turn out a little bit better for the president. The economy is slightly better. Even things like Brittney Griner.
 
She's sort of the assessor of the situation. 
 
What you said is true about the first lady. There are two things, really. She's the most influential person, of course, in the president's life after 45 years of marriage.
 
But she's also the person who can best assess him: what he wants, how he's doing, his schedule, what his legacy will be. And at this point, she's really gone to more of a firm all-in camp than she was previously, even in the summer, where she sort of remained on the fence and had a lot of thinking to do about it. 
 
It's coming off of a busy social season for the first lady. It's the kind of hosting stuff that is not necessarily her top-of-mind thing but she likes to do as first lady. It's been busy. But she's still gotten to this place with the president where she is thinking 2024 is happening. 
 
COLLINS: Which is notable, because it hasn't always been that sentiment. You've heard from the president and his aides who have said, you know, it's always his intention to run. 
 
But when it comes to her, she hasn't always, as you reported, supported his desire to run for higher office in the past. So I guess the question here is, until he makes a decision early next year, is there a chance that she could change her mind, or does it seem pretty solid that this is where she thinks this is headed? 
 
BENNETT: It sounds, from the people I talked to, that this is pretty solid; this is where she's headed. 
 
The family needs to weigh in more firmly. We've heard this many, many times from the president and the first lady, that Joe Biden's future depends on what his children, his grandchildren feel. She's taking that all into account. She knows that, you know, Hunter Biden will likely be a target again. These are all things she's assessed.
 
But I will say this about Jill Biden. If she doesn't want him to run again, she makes it known. That famous story about her about 2004, as Joe Biden and his aides, including Ron Klain at the time, were meeting inside their home in Wilmington, and Jill didn't want him to run. She was wearing a bikini out by the pool, and she wrote the word "no"
 
 in all caps on her stomach, and she walked through the house. Just making it clear that her voice needs to be heard.
 
Won't be any different this time, but I will say this. Everyone I've spoken to for this piece said that she's moving forward, and they intend to get on board and make this re-election run. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. We'll see if it includes a similar message this time. Kate Bennett, thank you so much.
 
HARLOW: I'm going to use that strategy. 
 
All right. A potential disaster averted this morning when Russian flight controllers called off a spacewalk for two of their cosmonauts after they noticed an unexplained and a significant fluid leak from the Soyuz crew ship that docked at the International Space Station. 
 
This is the moment a thick scream of liquid spewed from that spacecraft. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As to what may be causing this stream of particles that appears to be coming from the area. You're looking at a close-up view of the area, of the Soyuz MS-22 spacecraft that began streaming particles of what could be a coolant fluid. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[06:10:00]
 
HARLOW: It's not known how long repairing this will all take or whether the Russian ship can go home without the repairs. 
 
Meantime, the man accused of attacking Speaker Nancy Pelosi's husband, Paul Pelosi, has -- had plans, it turns out, to try to attack even more very well-known people. Prosecutors say Hunter Biden, California Governor Gavin Newsom, and actor Tom Hanks were all on the suspect's hit list as the court sees video evidence of the violent assault on Paul Pelosi. 
 
Let's go straight to our colleague, Nick Watt. He joins us from Los Angeles. This is quite the list, Nick. 
 
NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It is. You know, this suspect, David DePape, apparently told police officers in the moments after the attack there is evil in Washington, originating, according to him, with Hillary Clinton. 
 
And you mentioned those other people on his list of potential targets. The governor of California, Gavin Newsom; Tom Hanks; and Hunter Biden. Now apparently, DePape wanted to kidnap Hunter Biden to, quote, "discuss all the corruption." 
 
Now, of course, it is six-plus weeks now since this man allegedly went into the Pelosis' home, woke Paul Pelosi up at just about 2 a.m. in the morning, standing over his bed holding a hammer and zip ties. 
 
Of course, Paul Pelosi is now back up and about. He's wearing a hat and a glove to most public events. Remember, he was hit across the head and also suffered injuries to his arm. 
 
And of course, this attack playing into Nancy Pelosi's decision to step aside as leader of the Democrats in the House -- guys. 
 
LEMON: So Nick, you mentioned those charges. He is facing numerous charges, including attempted murder, attempted kidnapping.
 
WATT: Yes.
 
LEMON: How do you expect his team to defend him? 
 
WATT: Well, it's unclear. I mean, the has, on the state charges, filed not guilty pleas so far. 
 
But you know, in the moments after the attack, he did apparently confess to this, telling one of the officers, "I didn't really want to hurt him," meaning Paul Pelosi, "but you know, this was a suicide mission." 
 
And of course, part of the reason for this hearing yesterday was to give a judge the opportunity to decide whether there's enough evidence for this to go ahead to trial. 
 
And, of course, DePape allegedly hit Paul Pelosi with a hammer while two officers were standing there.
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
WATT: So the evidence is apparently very strong -- guys.
 
LEMON: Nick Watt. Thank you very much. Appreciate it -- Kaitlan. 
 
COLLINS: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was the first woman to hold the gavel. Now she's the first woman to have herself immortalized in the speaker's lobby, with her official portrait unveiled yesterday. 
 
Her husband, Paul Pelosi, was in attendance in Statuary Hall, alongside a generation of congressional leaders, as Pelosi was honored for her years of service. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA): I'm honored to be the first, but it will only be a good accomplishment if I'm not the last. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: The moment even brought former House -- former Republican House speaker, John Boehner, one time a Pelosi foil, to tears. He was among those honoring her and became emotional as he praised his former political rival. 
 
BOEHNER: How much we admire her.
 
In case you couldn't tell, my girls are Democrats. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: Boehner noted the times that he and Pelosi worked together in Congress, despite being on opposite sides of the aisle. Pelosi, in turn, said she would have been disappointed if he had not actually gotten emotional. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. That's perfect from Boehner. I think that's great to see. Kaitlan, thank you.
 
New this morning, the final installments of Harry and Meghan's docuseries dropped on Netflix, detailing what was a bitter split from the rest of the royal family. 
 
Harry releasing video of the moment they left for Los Angeles. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRINCE HARRY, UNITED KINGDOM: Good morning. It's 6 a.m. on the 14th of March, and we are on a freedom flight. We are leaving Canada, and we are headed to Los Angeles. Shh.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: Harry also spoke about his relationship with his brother William and accused him of screaming and shouting at him for his decision to step away. 
 
Let's bring in CNN anchor and royal correspondent, Max Foster. 
 
Max, good morning. This is it, right? These are all the episodes? They're -- they're out now, and what's the big takeaway? 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR AND ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, there's a lot more here than there was last time. This is really about their departure and why they felt forced out, effectively. 
 
So I mean, it's three hours of it. But if I summarize, it's effectively -- everything started well with the wedding. And that was a really positive high point in their marriage.
 
But it very quickly turned to jealousy. So they were talking about a tour to Australia which went really well for the couple. There was jealousy back home. There was jealousy when Meghan started appearing on the front pages, and this really escalated, to the point where they felt really unsupported, because there was negative press coverage. The palace weren't supporting them. 
 <br>[06:15:10]
 
Took a massive toll on Meghan's mental health. She says all of this media intrusion triggered her to miscarriage; also led her to suicidal thoughts. Ultimately, they felt they had to relocate from the U.K. to get away
 
 from the tabloids, effectively. And they went to the family with this proposal to continue in their roles but from outside the U.K. But those stories were leaked; those conversations were leaked, and it really blew up in the end. 
 
LEMON: So Harry went into detail about his meeting with William, Charles and the queen over leaving his royal role. What happened there, Max? 
 
FOSTER: Well, this was a meeting at the Sandringham estate, the queen's Sandringham estate after Meghan and Harry had put out -- issued this public plan for what they intended to do, which was moving to Canada, continuing their roles but being privately funded, effectively. 
 
They went to Charles, William and the queen with this plan, and this is what happened. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRINCE HARRY: It was terrifying to have my brother scream and shout at me and my father say things that just simply weren't true. And my grandmother, you know, quietly sit there and sort of take it all in. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Their argument, effectively, was that you're in or you're out. Harry wanted half in, half out. 
 
Of course, this is all entirely from the Sussexes' point of view. We've gone to the palace. We've gone to the family. They aren't responding just yet. But there is stuff here to respond to, I think.
 
LEMON: Do you think they're going to respond, Max? 
 
FOSTER: Yes, I think they have to. There are some really severe allegations here, and they need to give some sort of response to specific allegations, as well. 
 
LEMON: Max Foster, thank you very much. Appreciate it.
 
COLLINS: All right. Elon Musk is claiming that he's pro-free speech, but maybe that doesn't apply to his critics or his own private jet trackers. We're going to speak with the creator of the now-suspended Twitter account, @ElonJet, Jack Sweeney, about that next.
 
HARLOW: Plus, a growing man shortage. Yes, you heard that right. 
 
LEMON: What?
 
HARLOW: It's true. A special CNN report on why so many men, not Don Lemon, are leaving the U.S. workforce. 
 
LEMON: That would be nice, though.
 
HARLOW: No way!
 
LEMON: Come on!
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:22:25]
 
LEMON: So Elon Musk is pro-free speech, except when it is speech that he doesn't like. 
 
Twitter apparently suspending an account that tracked the location of his private jet, despite Musk himself saying last month that he would leave the account up as part of his commitment to free speech. 
 
Jack Sweeney runs that Elon jet account, and we're going to talk to him in just a minute here. Jack is a college student who used to use publicly-available information to build a bot that posted every time Musk's Gulfstream took off and landed at an airport. 
 
Well, his account had long been a thorn in Musk's side, with more than a half million followers. And only this week, Twitter just happened to reveal new restrictions around sharing details about someone's location. 
 
Musk is defending the policy, saying that it is a physical safety violation. 
 
The ban comes after Musk re-established previous Twitter rule breakers, including neo-Nazis. Twitter's also stopped enforcing policies banning COVID misinformation.
 
Now remember this, that Musk had been on the free speech train since purchasing the site. Just look. He is framing this, his fight for free speech, as a "battle for the future of civilization," his words. 
 
But Musk has a history of not welcoming certain speech across his businesses. Former SpaceX employees told "The New York Times" that the company fired workers after they publicly criticized Musk's behavior on social media. 
 
A Tesla employee claims that he was fired after posting YouTube reviews of Tesla's autopilot functions.
 
And in a book by "Wall Street Journal" reporter Tim Higgins, he details reports that Musk created an environment at Tesla where workers who disagreed with him were ousted. 
 
When Tesla has laid off employees, it's asked them to sign agreements with non-disparagement clauses. 
 
Musk had banned a fan blog from company events after they published a story claiming that Tesla was charging owners for hardware they'd already paid for. He has blocked journalists like our very own CNN colleague, Alex Marquardt.
 
And on an earnings call in 2018, after Tesla reported a record loss, Musk didn't want to hear any questions from analysts. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where, specifically, will you be in terms of -- 
 
ELON MUSK, TESLA CEO: Excuse me. Next. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- capital requirements? 
 
MUSK: Boring, bonehead questions are not cool. Next.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON: CNN has attempted to reach Twitter for comment, but we haven't heard back. 
 
COLLINS: But who we are hearing from is the 20-year-old college student that Don was just talking about there, who was running the suspended account tracking Elon's jet. Jack Sweeney is also the man behind Elonjet.net, which is still up and running, we should note. 
 <br>[06:25:06]
 
Jack, thanks for joining us this morning. 
 
And I guess the -- what the message is here is that he basically changed the rules on Twitter to justify suspending this account that you were running. 
 
JACK SWEENEY, SUSPENDED FROM TWITTER FOR RUNNING @ELONJET: Yes, yes. And this all comes a week after I had released info that a Twitter employee contacted me that they were, like, thinking about shadow banning. And so it's really, like, weird timing, like weird events that just tall add up after it seems like he's just had enough with me. 
 
COLLINS: Wait. So a Twitter employee reached out to you and said they were shadow banning your account; basically going to minimize and not put it in as many feeds. Is that what you're saying? 
 
SWEENEY: Yes. Last week. And I announced that last Saturday, I believe. And now this has all occurred within the past week after that. 
 
HARLOW: I wonder what it feels like for you. I mean, you're 20. You're in college. And you started this, because you really admired Elon Musk. So to have -- 
 
SWEENEY: Yes, yes. 
 
HARLOW: -- the richest guy in the world, so powerful, owner of this company, do this to you, I just wonder what that feels like? 
 
SWEENEY: I mean, it's completely unbelievable from the first message to him. You know, I just thought at some point it would end, and it just keeps going on and on. I thought, after -- especially after the "my commitment to free speech" tweet that I'd be fine. But he's changed his view. 
 
LEMON: There's no legal action, right, from Musk that you received at this point? 
 
SWEENEY: No, no. Not yet. 
 
LEMON: No.
 
SWEENEY: They have the tweet, but you know, that's it. 
 
LEMON: You told -- you told our Donie O'Sullivan that you would gladly take a job with Elon Musk. That was a while back. Is that still the case? 
 
SWEENEY: After that tweet, I don't know. That he's saying he's pursuing legal action, I don't think so. 
 
HARLOW: I wonder, you use Twitter a lot, right? Your friends in -- at college use it a lot. I wonder what you think about it now just as a platform, right, and the hypocrisy that Don just outlined and, you know, saying I'm taking this over to change it and make it better and free speech, free speech. And then doing things like this. 
 
SWEENEY: Yes.
 
HARLOW: Do you think Twitter is going to be as useful or safe going forward? 
 
SWEENEY: I mean, just like, I think he -- whoever the owner is, it doesn't matter. They can ban what they don't like. I mean, not just me; they're banning other flight-tracking people who are mentioning his plane's tail number. I've seen within -- after me and all that. 
 
COLLINS: Jack, can I -- can I ask you, on the other side of this, though, as Elon is arguing, there's safety concerns. He's talked about his children. He says that that's what's driving this, not just because he doesn't want people to know where his jet is landing. 
 
Is there any merit to that, you think? 
 
SWEENEY: Yes, there might be some. But you know, I'm tracking his plane, not him. And especially with the incident that he's reporting, that's with his car and not the plane that I'm tracking. 
 
And the last tweet that I put out was more than 24 hours before that event. So that was -- that's quite a lot of time. And to say that that's even connected is a big-time difference between those two events. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. Jack Sweeney, thanks so much for joining us this morning. And we'll be watching Elonjet.com (sic) instead in the future. 
 
LEMON: Thanks, Jack.
 
You guys are on Twitter -- SWEENEY: Thank you.
 
LEMON: You're on Twitter more than I am.
 
HARLOW: Is Kaitlan Collins on Twitter? I've got a bazillion followers. 
 
COLLINS: I tweet a lot.
 
LEMON: I noticed that. I noticed that since I've been, since -- like when I go on now, since he's taken over -- and I go on rarely.
 
HARLOW: Yes. I know.
 
LEMON: I think you are, as well.
 
HARLOW: Yes, not so much.
 
LEMON: There's so many ads. And I just, like, flip through -- I don't even look at the ads. It's just like --
 
HARLOW: They've got to make money. 
 
LEMON: -- clutter. Have you noticed more ads on Twitter now? 
 
COLLINS: I haven't. But when it comes to this account, I do follow it. And it's interesting as a reporting tool. I mean, I think Twitter is a good tool for reporting.
 
HARLOW: It is.
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
COLLINS: It's got a lot of flaws, obviously. But with this, you know, there are moments where it would say that he had landed in Florida. We'd ask, does that mean he's meeting with former President Trump? Who's he meeting with? Things like that, that people would pay attention.
 
HARLOW: It's really useful. And he's a public figure. 
 
LEMON: I've seen that account, that his -- you know, the tracker account. I didn't really think anything of it. I mean, he is a public figure. And --
 
COLLINS: And also, you can track other private jets. 
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
COLLINS: It's not like it's just Elon. 
 
LEMON: It's not like it's just Elon. 
 
COLLINS: There's other accounts where you can track the tail number of someone that owned -- it belongs to someone really wealthy. And essentially, interesting to see where they're going, what's happening.
 
HARLOW: Of course.
 
COLLINS: And can indicate vice president. Sometimes if you see someone who's getting on a plane, you can say if they're close to someone who's a vice-presidential candidate that's being vetted. Things like that. People actually do use it to put together reporting.
 
HARLOW: You see how much she loves Twitter? 
 
LEMON: Yes, I see that. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. 
 
HARLOW: She's great on it. Everyone follow Kaitlan Collins. OK?
 
COLLINS: All right. Up next, we're going to talk about the male exodus from the workforce --
 
LEMON: What?
 
COLLINS: -- and the influx of women. We'll find out what is behind that shift. 
 
LEMON: Plus, some new CNN polls about 2024 and how Americans are feeling about a Trump/Biden rematch. Oh my gosh. 
 
COLLINS: That's what the voters are saying. 
 
LEMON: Right? Everyone's like -- whoa-ho.
 
HARLOW: And you're literally echoing the voter sentiment. 
 
LEMON: No!