Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Bidens to Host Macrons at First State Diner of Administration; U.S. Fed Chair Hints at Slower Pace of Rate Hikes; U.S. House Committee Now has Trump's Federal Tax Returns; U.S. Justice Department Wants All Transcripts and Evidence from the January 6th Investigation; Argentina Defeat Poland 2-0, Advance to Knockouts. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired December 01, 2022 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Bianca Nobilo live from London. Max Foster is on assignment with the royals in Boston. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The first state visit. The first foreign leader welcomed and having the red carpet rolled out for them. It is a very symbolic moment. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How we can do more for the years to come. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: House Democrats now have Donald Trump's tax returns. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We would like to have all the transcripts and all the other evidence. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When they pass this baton to the Justice Department, what happens then? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There has been no suspect identified and no arrests made. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm afraid we're going to have to try because we lost four beautiful souls.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo. 
 
NOBILO: It's Thursday, December 1st, 9 a.m. here in London, 4 a.m. in Washington. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden will host the first state dinner at the White House since 2019 and his first since taking office. It also comes at a time of enormous social upheaval and global crises that didn't exist just a few years back. This summit between Mr. Biden and French President Emmanuel Macron underscores the critical alliance between the two countries. The two leaders and their wives shared a quiet meal at a Washington restaurant on Wednesday night I headed today's busy schedule. 
 
The main event will be tonight's White House state dinner, a rare and lavish affair that spares nothing. But there is much more to this high level meeting that music, celebration and gourmet food. CNN's Phil Mattingly has our report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: For any U.S. president there is no question the first state visit, the first foreign leader welcomed and having the red carpet rolled out for them, it is a very symbolic moment. It is also a very substantive moment. And there's no question both of those elements will be front and center when French President Emmanuel Macron comes to the White House on Thursday. 
 
Now this is a later first state dinner that most presidents have in part due to COVID, the pandemic and how the White House was operating in its first year. However, it is no less important when you talk to White House officials given the state of the relationship between those of two leaders and certainly the relationship between their two countries. 
 
There is no question when you talk to White House officials they point to France's role inside the EU, France's role inside a critically important transatlantic relationship. One that has only grown in importance certainly since the Russian invasion of Ukraine and that will be a center point of the discussions the two leaders have. 
 
But also, the relationship between the two men. Several meetings on the sidelines of big summits, multiple phone calls between the two in regular contact over the course of the last several months. Now there are foreign policy issues to deal with. There's no question about that. There are also very real domestic concerns that President Macron is expected to bring to President Biden. Related to provisions in one of President Biden's cornerstone, domestic pieces of legislation. 
 
Really serves as protectionist elements that have frustrated Europeans in several ways. That will be brought up, that will likely a point of contention to some degree. What won't be, however, is the reliance between the two leaders on one another when it comes to Ukraine, also to some degree, although maybe not entirely aligned when it comes to the issue of China an animating feature of President Biden's foreign policy. 
 
There's also the pomp and circumstance. It matters and it seems may be from a different age here, but when you talk to White House officials, they talk about how much work has gone into this moment, the entertainment, the dinner, how things are structured. President Macron came into Washington, D.C., on Tuesday making the rounds to some degree. But the big time moment will be when he enters the White House, a fully formal affair, a bilateral meeting where significant amounts of policy will be discussed and then the dinner itself. That is supposed to be an opportunity for leaders to kick back, relax, listen to good music and eat good food, to really further our relationship. But it's also the symbolism of where France at this moment sits in the view of the president, the president has long been viewed as a transatlantic-ist and one who acknowledges that that relationship between the two countries, between two regions to some degree, is more important now than perhaps ever before. 
 
Phil Mattingly, CNN, the White House.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
NOBILO: CNN's Jim Bittermann joins us now live from Paris. Jim, tell us more about what both parties are hoping to get out of this meeting. 
 
JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think, Bianca, Phil outlined some of the things from the U.S. perspective. But from the French perspective, we got kind of a blunt assessment of things yesterday when President Macron spoke to a group of mainly French observers in Washington, D.C. here's what he had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EMMANUEL MACRON, FRENCH PRESIDENT (through translator): What has happened in recent months is a challenge for us because we are starting to have differences on energy issues and the cost of the war is not the same in the Europe and in the United States. But most importantly, the choices that have been made, for which I share the goals, in particular the Inflation Reduction Act or the Chips Act, are choices that will split the West.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BITTERMANN: In fact, that danger of splitting the West is one of the things that Macron has been talking about for some time now. The Inflation Reduction Act, the French and to some extent the Europeans believe smacks of protectionism. The other thing is that they've going to talk about is energy difficulties in Europe, mainly related to the Ukrainian situation. But, in fact, the price gouging that they believe, the Europeans believe is going on with the supplies of L&amp;G gas that are coming in from the United States. The supplies have been raised completely over what they were from a year ago. But in fact, the prices are something the Europeans object to -- Bianca. 
 
NOBILO: Jim Bittermann live in Paris, thank you. 
 
On Capitol Hill, efforts to avoid a potentially catastrophic railroad strike are now in the hands of the U.S. Senate. The House passed two bills on Wednesday, one that would hold rail companies and workers to the proposed settlement that was reached back in September but later rejected by some of the unions. And the other would require up to 7 days of paid sick leave a year, a key sticking point in these negotiations. But it's unclear if that provision will have enough support to pass. The unions representing more than 100,000 workers threaten to strike if there's no agreement by late next week. 
 
Trading gets underway on Wall Street in just a few hours. The markets are looking to stay hot after a speech by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. And here's a look at the futures. There is a bit of a mixed bag at the moment. Two of the indices down at the moment. 
 
Powell hinted that the central bank may be ready to slow the pace of interest rate hikes. That pushed stocks sharply higher on Wednesday. The Dow added more than 700 points and moving into bull market territory. CNN's Mark Stewart has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARK STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hi there, Bianca. Any decision about a future interest rate hike won't come until the Federal Reserve meets in December, but Chair Jerome Powell is giving a bit of an appetizer about what to expect. Speaking to an event on Wednesday, the Fed chair said smaller hikes are likely coming in December but didn't provide any specifics as to the size and frequency of future rate hikes. And the Fed chair was very cautious saying, quote, despite some promising developments, we have a long way to go noting the Fed has not seen clear progress on inflation. 
 
JEROME POWELL, FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN: It is likely that restoring price stability will require holding policy at a restrictive level for some time. History cautions clearly against prematurely loosening policy. And I'll close by saying that we will stay the course until the job is done. 
 
STEWART: The labor market is a big part of the inflation equation. Here in the U.S., we saw the number of job openings drop in October. The labor market is still tight and adding to the challenges, Bianca, if you look at the third quarter GDP data, the U.S. economy saw growth, including a rise in consumer spending at a time when the Fed wants to quell demand -- Bianca.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NOBILO: Thanks to Mark. 
 
And good news if you are hitting the road. Gasoline prices in the U.S. are down again. According to AAA, a gallon of regular unleaded is averaging $3.47. That's down 12 cents from last week and 29 cents from a month ago. The gas price tracking company GasBuddy is projecting a national average below $3 a gallon by Christmas time. 
 
Early voters are flocking to the polls with five days and counting until Georgia's runoff Senate election. Officials say more than 830,000 people have already voted. Almost 12 percent of all the voters in the state. Democratic incumbent Raphael Warnock is facing Republican Herschel Walker after neither of them won a majority in midterms earlier in the month. Democrats have already clinched the control in the Senate but winning another seat would still give them more power in committees and with judicial appointments to. 
 
Later today former president Barack Obama will hit that campaign trail for Warnock. But despite the support Georgia's Republican lieutenant governor says that he can't get behind either candidate. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
GEOFF DUNCAN, GEORGIA LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR: I showed up to vote this morning. I was one of those folks who got in line and spent about an hour waiting. And you know, it was the most disappointing ballot I've ever stared at in my entire life since I started voting. You know, I had two candidates that I just couldn't find anything that made sense for me to put my vote behind this. So, I walked out of that ballot box showing up to vote but not voting for either one of them. 
 
I'm in the same spot that hundreds of thousands of other Republicans and millions across the country are in, right. We just want real leadership to navigate us through the mess and mire of what we're seeing play out in Washington, D.C.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NOBILO: For the first time in history a black member of Congress will lead one of the two main parties in the U.S. House. Democrats have picked New York Congressman Hakeem Jefferies to lead them in the lower chamber in the new year. U.S. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer noted the historical significance in this generational change. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY) U.S. SENATE MAJORITY LEADER: Hakeem Jeffries elevation As House Democratic leader is a turning point in the history of the United States Congress. Never before has an African American leader or any leader of color held a top position for either party in either chamber. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: He'll succeed Nancy Pelosi who's led House Democrats for the last 19 years. On Wednesday Jefferies explained how he would approach his new leadership role, which includes reaching across the aisle. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. HAKEEM JEFFERIES (D-NY): House Democrats fight for the people. That's our story, that's our legacy, that's our values, that's our commitment as we move forward. Get stuff done. Make life better for everyday Americans. We look forward to finding opportunities to partner with the other side of the aisle and work with them whenever possible. But we will also push back against extremism whenever necessary.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NOBILO: New details are emerging about the investigations into the January 6th attack on Capitol Hill. The chairman of the U.S. House Select Committee investigating the riot says that after more than a thousand interviews the final one was conducted on Wednesday and no more testimony is expected. But on Friday they will discuss potential criminal referrals. Meanwhile, the U.S. Attorney General says the Justice Department wants access to all transcripts and evidence collected by the committee. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MERRICK GARLAND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: We would like to have all the transcripts and all the other evidence collected by the committee so that we can use it in the ordinary course of our investigations. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Merrick Garland also praised the Justice Department's recent victories including the convictions secured against several members of the Oath Keepers militia for crimes related to the insurrection. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GARLAND: These convictions were the result of tireless work by Justice Department agents, attorneys, analysts and support staff beginning in January 2021 with a methodical collection of evidence and continuing through the presentation of that evidence during the seven-week trial that began in October of 2022. Their skill and dedication are in the very best traditions of the Justice Department and we are all extremely grateful to them. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy has told the January 6th Committee to preserve all of its records. He's vowing to become the next House Speaker when Republicans assume the majority next year. And McCarthy has vowed to hold hearings on alleged security failures that led to breach of the U.S. Capitol. He's also one of five Republican lawmakers who refused to comply with a subpoena to appear before the committee. CNN legal analyst Elie Honig says that it's likely this is just a taste of what's to come. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: Elections have consequences. Republicans soon will have the power to hold hearings. They issued this order, this instruction to the January 6th Committee to preserve their records. I don't think they need to be told that. Of course, they're going to preserve the records. Of course, are not going to destroy records. 
 
But we should get used to this. Because we're going to see Kevin McCarthy -- he's already told us -- try to do a sort of investigate the investigators thing on the January 6th Committee. And also, let's remember, Kevin McCarthy and Jim Jordan have both told Merrick Garland, they both may public statement saying, Attorney General, clear your calendar and save your documents or something to that effect. Merrick Garland does not need to be told that either. But relating to the Mar-a-Lago search. 
 
And so, now I think we should get used to seeing the Republican controlled House. They can't stop or derail a criminal investigation, but they certainly can make life difficult and complicated for Merrick Garland and the Justice Department and I look for them to try to do that. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Meanwhile, another U.S. House committee now has Donald Trump's federal tax returns. That includes records about Trump personally, as well as several of his businesses. It's the end of a long legal battle. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
The former president has fought tooth and nail to shield some of his most closely guarded financial details. CNN's Jessica Schneider has more on this from Washington. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: After a year's long court battle, members of Congress finally have access to six years of Donald Trump's federal tax returns. So, now the question is what will the House Ways and Means Committee do with these returns? Will the public ever get a glimpse of them? The immediate answer to that question is, really, no. The public won't get immediate access to these returns but they could potentially become public down the road. 
 
Of course, members of Congress have been fighting to get Trump's returns for years because they say they need to know if and how to reform the presidential audit program. And really, they want to use Trump as a baseline to determine what kind of financial conflicts of interest might have been in play for Trump and maybe even future presidents. 
 
On Thursday the committee's actually going to get a legal briefing about how to proceed getting access to and using Trump's tax returns. Of course, Democrats only have a few more weeks left in power before Republicans take over so they are scrambling to tie up their loose ends on their investigations including this one. 
 
If the tax returns are ultimately released to the public, that of course could impact Trump's run for president in 2024. He has repeatedly refused to release his own taxes as a candidate. But of course, a "New York Times" investigation back in 2020 had found that Trump paid no federal income taxes at all beginning in the year 2000 because he reported losing significantly more than he made. So, the public could potentially get more details if those tax returns now that Congress has access to it are eventually released a little bit wider. 
 
Jessica Schneider, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NOBILO: In the World Cup, Argentina stay alive and even thrive giving superstar Lionel Messi another shot at that elusive trophy. And no suspects in the murder of four Idaho college students. What
 
 police are saying about the killings being a targeted attack. 
 
Plus, the U.S. West Coast is bundling up with millions under winter weather alerts. We'll have the latest forecast. 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, that's right, the snow will be piling up in feet over the Western U.S., but not just across the mountainous regions. Some cities will actually feel the impacts from the wintry weather. I'll tell you exactly where coming up after the break.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
NOBILO: A base jumper in Utah has survived a horrifying accident that was caught on camera. But we must warn you the video you're about to see is disturbing. It shows him slamming into a cliff during a jump last Saturday. But then his parachute got stuck in the cliff side and he was left dangling at 70 feet above the ground. Witnesses said there was no way for them to reach him. And rescuers were able to get to him after a two hour operation. The jumper was then airlifted to hospital in critical condition. 
 
It's going to be a freezing morning for states along the U.S. West Coast. More than 10 million people are under winter alert right now with snow expected in higher elevation areas. Meteorologist Derek Van Dam joins me now from Atlanta with more -- Derek. 
 
VAN DAM: Yes, Bianca, there's actually two storm systems that are going to impact the Western U.S. and we're going to see lots of snowfall especially in the higher elevations. But I talked about it before the commercial break that we'll see snow in the lower elevations including in some of the cities. So, Seattle, you have the chance of some snow showers this weekend. Salt Lake City and then eventually into Denver as well as Billings, Montana. 
 
Just look at this forecast radar imagery, very active. There's our first storm moving through. That impacts from the Sierra Nevada mountain range to the central Rockies and then are secondary storm system moves in by Friday evening and into the day on Saturday and impacting even Sunday for the Western parts of the U.S. 
 
So, we have over 10 million Americans under winter storm alerts. This is a winter storm watch across Utah and Colorado with a warnings in that shading of pink. And then pay attention to the Sierra Nevada mountain range across central portions of California. 1 to 3 feet associated with these storms moving through across the weekend. 
 
Now with the storms moving in, we do have a lot of wind to deal with as well. So, wind advisories, high wind warnings in place. Even some watches across the front range of Colorado. Here's the accumulation expected across the region. Good news for the ski resorts, they continue to pile up the base. Get it ready for the upcoming holiday season. Now cross the Eastern half of the U.S., you recall just about 24 to 36
 
 hours ago we've had severe weather tear through the southern portions of the U.S. In fact, here's an image coming out of central Mississippi. A tree toppling over on a mobile home, very dangerous. Unfortunately, there were some fatalities. The good news is that the storm system has pressed on eastward but not before leaving its trail of destruction. Over 35 confirmed tornado reports across portions of Louisiana, Mississippi as well as Alabama and over 100 reports of wind damage as well. 
 
That storm system has cleared. Now we have the wind behind it. And that's helping kick in the lake effect snow machine downwind from Lake Erie as well as Lake Ontario, today another half a foot of snow for places like Water Town and into the Buffalo area as well. 
 
Here's a quick look at your temperatures, Bianca. It is feeling more like winter out there. 
 
NOBILO: Derek Van Dam, good to see you. Thank you. 
 
VAN DAM: You, too. 
 
NOBILO: Lava from the Mauna Loa Volcano in Hawaii now threatens to shut down one of the Big Island's main roadways. The lava has been slowly moving closer to the road since the volcano began erupting on Sunday. Residents would have to drive all the way around the island if the road was shut down. Officials say that they're prepared if lava reaches the roads so the plans could change based on how it flows. 
 
And just like in Hawaii, two volcanos are erupting in Alaska as well. These images show the Pavlof and Great Sitkin volcanoes. But these eruptions are considered low level, not nearly as big as Mauna Loa. Scientists say Pavlof has actually been erupting for over a year. 
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
They're also keep an eye on three other volcanoes in the area, showing, quote, signs of unrest. 
 
We're just hours away from the next crucial showdown that will determine which countries advance in the World Cup. On Wednesday all eyes were on Argentina who despite a humiliating start to their campaign have now comfortably secured their spot in the knockouts. 
 
This was the reaction in Buenos Aires as world number three defeated Poland on Wednesday 2-nil. That means legend Lionel Messi will get to keep trying for the remaining title that he covets and what will likely be his last World Cup. 
 
Meanwhile, the Germany/Costa Rica clash later today will feature a first an all-female team of referees. CNN's Amanda Davies is tracking all of this live from Doha keeping her very busy. Amanda, bring us up to speed. 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Morning, Bianca. Yes, not surprisingly, quite quiet here behind us this morning. Argentina fans celebrating long into the night at stadium 974 not wanting to leave, having seen their side book their place in the round of 16. 
 
Lionel Messi has said he was angry after missing that penalty against Poland but not a bad consolation prize for him and their team booking their place in the next round which really at one point seemed quite unlikely, didn't it, after that shocking defeat to Saudi Arabia in their opening game. 
 
People watching on really did feel this is quite a turnaround from this Argentina side showing some of the signs that took them through to that 36th game unbeaten run in the lead in for this tournament. Perhaps we should be talking about them as potential title winners once again. 
 
They beat Poland 2-nil. You have to feel Poland will be thinking lady luck shining down on them. And perhaps they should be sending some flowers, some thanks to Saudi Arabia. Because they also make it through despite that defeat, thanks to Saudi's late, late goal against Mexico. Which means that Poland goes through on goal difference. 
 
Saudi Arabia and their fantastic support is heading home with the Mexicans. But it condemns Mexico to an embarrassment really from a national perspective. They've become the first Mexican side to miss out on a place to end the round of 16 since 1978 and football is a brutal game. Their coach Tata Martino has already lost his job. 
 
There are, though, as you mentioned some fantastic games in prospect today. The second rank side in the world Belgium talk of unrest in the campus. They know they need to win their match against Croatia to have any chance of going through. 
 
2010 champion Spain, they take on Germany's conquerors. Japan knowing, they just need a point to book their place into the round of 16. And what a match we have in prospect for Germany. Four-time winners on the brink of what would be another really embarrassing Greek stage exit for them. They have to beat 2014 quarterfinalist Costa Rica if they want to keep their hopes of continuing in this tournament alive. 
 
There's some fighting talk from Costa Rica and their coach Luis Fernando Suarez. He said his side relishing the prospects of upsetting the odds. But Hansi Flick, the Germany coach for his part, say his team are going to set out to kill this one off early. 
 
And that means Stephanie Frappart, the referee, will need to be on her toes. History set to be made there. She will become the first female referee to lead a match at a men's World Cup. She's used to leading the way. She was the first female referee in the league and the first female referee in the UEFA Champions League. But, Bianca, from the time I've spent with her over the years, she will be determined that this match is not about her. She does not want to be the center of attention. She wants it to be the football writing the headlines. 
 
NOBILO: Amanda Davies in Doha, thank you so much. 
 
Family members are speaking out with a warning for parents after a so- called catfish triple murder in California. We'll have their message for you just ahead. And there's a new details as law enforcement agencies work to find a
 
 suspect in the brutal murder of four Idaho college students coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:30:00]