Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN Team Witnesses Russian Assault On Eastern City Of Bakhmut; Liz Truss Government Struggling With Yet More Turmoil; Tehran's Brutal Crackdown On Anti-Government Protesters; Russia Ramps Up Evacuations From Kherson. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired October 20, 2022 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:00:38] 
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, you're watching CNN NEWSROOM. Coming up this hour, electricity restrictions and rolling blackouts now in place across Ukraine. Russian airstrikes continued to play critical damage on the national power grid. 
 
Liz Truss might soon be the shortest serving British prime minister in history. 
 
And the high price of zero COVID, how Xi Jinping obsession is causing desperation, hardship, and growing unrest across China. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with John Vause. 
 
VAUSE: In what appears to be a desperate move by a desperate leader, Vladimir Putin has declared martial law across four Ukrainian regions, Russia claims to have annexed just weeks ago. 
 
But for the most part, the declaration appears to be almost meaningless. Regions have been under Russian military occupation for years and in recent weeks, Russia has been losing territory to Ukrainian counter offensive. 
 
And in one of those regions Kherson, Russian installed leaders have now accelerated the relocation of 60,000 people on Wednesday. Putin has also ordered increased security across the so-called annexed regions as well. 
 
Also Russia, especially in provinces in neighboring Ukraine. And here's what the U.S. president had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think that Vladimir Putin finds himself in an incredibly difficult position. And what it reflects to me is it seems his only tool available to him is to brutalize individual citizens in Ukraine -- Ukrainian citizens to try to intimidate them into capitulating. They're not going to do that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Right now Ukraine is rationing electricity, the end result of repeated Russian airstrikes inflicting heavy damage on the national power grid. 
 
Government ordered restrictions took effect moments ago, and will be in place until the end tonight local time. 
 
Internet connectivity has also dropped away. The government is asking the nation to reduce electricity consumption to a minimum or risk more frequent blackouts, asking not to use unnecessary appliances, avoid using high consumption devices. 
 
And it's not clear who attacked the administrative building in the Russian held territory near Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant, but it's only one of numerous flashpoints that have engulfed Ukraine's power grid. 
 
And in his nightly address, President Zelenskyy said three Ukrainian power stations had been destroyed in the past 24 hours.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): We will do everything possible to restore the normal energy capabilities of our country but it takes time and this requires our joint efforts.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: An Eastern Ukraine -- Ukrainian forces are facing a relentless Russian attack in one key city. 
 
CNN's Senior International Correspondent Fred Pleitgen reports now from the front lines.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): When entering Bakhmut, the need is for speed. We're driving straight into one of the most dangerous places in war torn Ukraine with a military combat medic who goes by the call sign Katrusya. Bakhmut is under nearly constant Russian assault. 
 
Our car hasn't even come to a full stop when the first shell hits nearby. The medic stops, we need to take cover as best we can. 
 
So, we're taking cover here because we just had some incoming artillery fire. We're going to wait and hope that there is not any hits anywhere close to us.
 
We're at the receiving end of a full Russian artillery barrage. 
 
Photo journalist Richard Harlow tracks several other projectiles whizzing close over our heads. 
 <br>[00:05:10]
 
Katrusya says Ukrainian troops face this kind of shelling several times a day.
 
KATRUSYA, COMBAT MEDIC, UKRAINIAN ARMY (through translator): The artillery attacks fly every day so it's never quiet here. Other parts of the city take hits many times a day. There are times when several mortars hit within a minute.
 
PLEITGEN: Katrusya's own husband was killed here a month and a half ago. While Ukrainian forces have been gaining ground against the Russians in many places in Bakhmut, things are different. 
 
Kyiv is trying to fortify its positions, but they acknowledge the Russians have more artillery and are using seasoned fighters from the Wagner (PH) private military company. 
 
Still, even pinned down with artillery flying overhead Katrusya says her confidence isn't shaken.
 
KATRUSYA: Absolutely, we will win. But price of victory will be huge. 
 
Unfortunately, everyday civilians are dying. And there are a lot of dead and injured soldiers on every part of the line.
 
PLEITGEN: The fighting here has destroyed much of this town and left the few people who remain traumatized. 
 
Sergei (PH) doesn't even take cover anymore as artillery strikes nearby. I asked him if he's afraid.
 
SERGEI (through translator): Afraid of what? Everything will be fine mate, everything will be fine.
 
PLEITGEN: A pause in the shelling gives us a chance to get out of Bakhmut as Ukrainian tanks roll in the other direction trying to defend this key city from Vladimir Putin's forces. 
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Seems almost unbelievable with the past six weeks of Liz Truss as British prime minister has made her predecessor Boris Johnson looked like a raucous stability. The government was engulfed in more chaos Wednesday and on several fronts. 
 
Home Secretary Suella Braverman quit over a minor infraction using her resignation letter to outline a scathing rebuke of the Prime Minister. 
 
Braverman is the second senior minister to depart the Truss government in less than a week. She has been replaced by Grant Shapps who earlier this week said the prime minister had a Mount Everest to climb to remain in power. And senior members of the Conservative Party are in open revolt.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHARLES WALKER, BRITISH CONSERVATIVE M.P.: I'm livid and you know, I really shouldn't say this, but I hope all those people that put Liz Truss in Number 10, I hope it was worth it. I hope it was worth it for the ministerial red box, I hope it was worth it to sit around the Cabinet table because the damage they have done to our party is extraordinary.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: During the weekly Prime Minister's questions, Liz Truss was mocked. She was jeered and is in danger of becoming Britain's shortest serving leader. 
 
CNN's Bianca Nobilo has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Prime Minister Liz Truss had a rollercoaster day on Wednesday and not the fun kind. The day kicked off with reports that her special advisor had been suspended pending an investigation and then she had to appear for Prime Minister's questions and she faced a confident leader of the opposition. And she knew that this was a make or break moment for her fragile premiership.
 
KEIR STARMER, BRITISH LABOR PARTY LEADER: I've got the list here, 45p tax cut gone. Corporation tax cut gone. 20p tax cut gone. Two year energy freeze gone. Tax free shopping gone. Economic credibility gone.
 
And her supposed best friend, the former chancellor, he's gone as well, they're all gone. So, why she's still here?
 
LIZ TRUSS, BRITISH CONSERVATIVE PARTY LEADER: Mr. Speaker, I am a fighter and not a quitter. I have acted in the national interest to make sure that we have economic stability.
 
NOBILO: Truss is more energetic and appoints fiery performance seems to have bought her a little bit more time with her party. 
 
Although later in the House of Commons, the vice chairman of the powerful backbench committee of Conservative M.P.s that controls rules over ousting leaders and electing new ones declared publicly to the House of Commons and nation that he could no longer look voters in the eye and that the prime minister had to go.
 
WILLIAM WRAGG, BRITISH CONSERVATIVE M.P.: I am personally ashamed. Because I cannot go and face my constituents, look them in the eye and say that they should support our great party and the polls would seem to bear that out.
 
NOBILO: And the political blows kept coming. When Suella Braverman announced that she was resigning as home secretary. She said that this was over a technical infringement sending an official document from a personal e-mail address, but she didn't waste the opportunity in her resignation letter to criticize the government. 
 
In a thinly veiled attack, she said that she held herself to the highest standards, and her resignation was the right thing to do. Writing: The business of government relies upon people, accepting responsibility for their mistakes, pretending we haven't made mistakes carrying on as if everyone can't see that we've made them and hoping that things will magically come right is not serious politics. 
 <br>[00:10:19]
 
Braverman continued that she has deep concerns about the direction of the government. Will her resignation be the first of many or an isolated incident? It's impossible to say this evening, which just underscores the instability of this current government. 
 
Bianca Nobilo, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Dominic Thomas is CNN's European Affairs commentator. He is with us this hour from Los Angeles. Hi, Dom. 
 
DOMINIC THOMAS, CNN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS COMMENTATOR (on camera): Hi, John. Great to be here.
 
VAUSE: Thanks for joining us. Now, in Parliament Liz Truss insisted not only is she a fighter, she's not a quitter. You know, maybe there's been a few mistakes, here she is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUSS: Mr. Speaker, I have been very clear that I am -- Mr. Speaker, that I am sorry and I have made mistakes. But the right thing to do in those circumstances is to make changes which I've made, and to get on with the job and deliver for the British people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The Daily Star now features a lettuce bought from Tesco is asking which will last longer, Truss or the lettuce. Right now, the lettuce looks to be shorter odds.
 
She's been in the job for 43 days. She may apologize for these mistakes but will she be forgiven for these mistakes which are causing real hardship across the country?
 
THOMAS: I think absolutely not, John, because these mistakes are not behavioral. They're not just simple bad life choices. She was elected on these particular policies and on this platform, they're in her DNA. They are the political candidate that she is, that is her vision as to where Britain should go. 
 
And it's been rejected by the markets. It's been rejected by the British people. And to that extent, John, she's completely illegitimate and has no claims to be able to apologize and hope that this will somehow turn the suffering British public around, John.
 
VAUSE: Clearly, right now there's a lot of concern on the backbench M.P. in the Tory party. But rarely do you hear members of Parliament speak out like Charles Walker, who is quitting as elected member of the party after 17 years? Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER: I've had enough. I've had enough of talentless people putting their tick in the right box, not because it's in the national interest, but because it's in their own personal interest to achieve ministerial position.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: That certainly seems to be a major part of the problem within the conservatives. The other issue seems to be they gave the leadership to someone who told them repeatedly what they wanted to hear, even though it was kind of fantasy.
 
THOMAS: Yes, I think you're absolutely right, John. And there are I think two aspects of that question, that comment is absolutely correct, that there's a growing pattern not just in the U.K. of people seeking political office to advance their own personal interests and have forgotten completely about what it means to be a public servant. 
 
And I think in this particular case, with 12 years in power, and the majority that they've had since 2019, they've been able to get away from it. 
 
What's so striking is if you just look at all the candidates that ran in this latest leadership race, seven out of eight of them were in the cabinet up until the early -- the resignations earlier this week, and the only person who wasn't there and out of those eight was Rishi Sunak, who of course, had a very different way of approaching the fiscal situation was ultimately rejected because of the way that he stepped away from the Boris Johnson government. 
 
And there are so many factions here now within the Conservative Party, and this Brexit party that promised people that this was the new global Britain that would be the envy of the world now looks increasingly like a party that is out of touch and does not really have policies that can solve the problems of the 21st century, John.
 
VAUSE: And the resignation letter from Suella Braverman is truly something to behold especially the reason for quitting what after 43 days as Home Secretary. 
 
Earlier today, I sent an official document from my personal e-mail to a trusted parliamentary colleague as part of policy engagement, with the aim of garnering support for government policy on migration. This constitutes a technical infringement of the rules and she goes on to say, officially I did nothing wrong but I'm quitting.
 
In any other government, that would never be considered a hanging offense. But Braverman was reportedly forced out by Truss and she's a former ally of the Prime Minister and Truss is so politically damaged. She replaced Braverman with Grant Shapps, a close supporter of Rishi Sunak, who was Truss's opponent for the leadership. 
 
The truly remarkable thing about this in last few weeks is that this government under Truss has been at the center of more scandal, more turmoil, more upheaval, more backstabbing than Boris Johnson could ever have hoped for.
 <br>[00:15:01]
 
THOMAS: Yes, I think I think you're absolutely right there. I mean, there's definitely continuity, Truss and Johnson both have damaged the Conservative Party to an extent that winning any general election in the near future would be -- it would be almost impossible. 
 
But certainly, yes, that letter was an exercise in rhetoric. And you could say irony, although at the end of the day, it was so obvious what the letter was really getting at and how it was making very specific allusions to statements made by the Prime Minister Truss, about responsibility, credibility, and so on, that the message was not really lost on anybody. 
 
And I think ultimately, at this moment, more resignations will come and really Truss will survive as long as the Conservative Party as long as it takes them to figure out whether or not they can find a new leader, or whether they will ultimately have to give up power and go to a general election. 
 
And I think once that decision is made, she will be gone. And there is no doubt about it that she will be the shorter serving Conservative Party Prime Minister, John.
 
VAUSE: There's always the lettuce. Dominic Thomas, thank you. 
 
THOMAS: Thank you. 
 
VAUSE: And there was further mayhem in the British Parliament during a vote over fracking. There's confusion over whether it was linked to a confidence vote. Some M.P.s claimed conservatives were being physically dragged into support the government.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS BRYANT, BRITISH LABOR M.P.: Madam Deputy Speaker, I would urge you to launch an investigation into the scenes outside the entrance to the no lobby earlier. 
 
As you know, members are expected to be able to vote without fear or favor. And the behavior code which is agreed by the whole of the house says there shall never be bullying or harassment of members. 
 
I saw -- I saw members being physically manhandled into another lobby. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Some conservatives have dismissed the reports of coercion and pandemonium, but it's yet another sign of the growing chasms and the chaos within the Truss government. 
 
Still to come here on CNN, Iranian authorities meet with the female rock climber who competed in Seoul without hijab, will have their reaction. That's next. 
 
Also, Iranian regime's brutal playbook for those who dare to dissent on full display as antigovernment protests continue across the country. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: There's growing international support for antigovernment protesters in Iran. In coming hours, Canada's foreign minister will host a virtual meeting with 14 other female foreign ministers to discuss the brutal crackdown on demonstrators following the death last month of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini who was detained by Iran strict morality police for allegedly not wearing a hijab correctly. 
 
Meantime, Iran is imposing sanctions on British institutions and individuals accused of inciting riots. According to state media, 14 foreigners in Iran, including Americans have been arrested in the protests. 
 <br>[00:20:01]
 
Some of those protesters now learned firsthand that defying the Iranian regime comes with some severe consequences. More details now from CNN's Jomana Karadsheh and we warn you, we are not identifying the protesters in her report because of safety concerns and it does contain some disturbing images.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The desperate struggle to break free tells of the cruelty that awaits. It's not just to escape, it's to survive, to stay alive. 
 
So many Iranians know all too well the path to which this will lead. A hell on earth for those who dare to dissent. 
 
It's the repressive regime's playbook, tried and tested time and time again. This 29-year-old protester says he was detained this month and endured four days of torture by Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Somebody started kicking punching our stomach area, putting our heads in buckets of water so we couldn't breathe and beating us with a belt, hose and electric shockers.
 
KARADSHEH: He claims he was coerced into signing a confession saying he was paid by the U.S., U.K. and Israeli governments to "create chaos in Iran". He's been left with minor scars that are healing. But what we don't see may never heal.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Nowadays, I don't have much sleep. I have nightmares most of the time. In my nightmares, I see someone is following me in the dark and I'm alone and no one is helping me.
 
KARADSHEH: And he says the authorities still stalk him. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I received a phone call from an unknown number that
 
 I'm active on Twitter. He threatened me and my family, saying if you don't stop they will arrest me. And that I know what's awaiting me.
 
KARADSHEH: It's a pattern of oppression that's played out before. In 2019, the world saw how far the state would go to crush those rising up. 
 
Farhad (PH), a father of two tells CNN he watched several of his friends gone down on the street back then, weeks later, the authorities came for him. He says he was dragged from his home in the middle of the night and taken to what he describes as a regime torture chamber for 16 days of horrors and beatings that left him beyond recognition. 
 
We've reviewed some of the horrific photos of Farhad's injuries. To protect his identity, we're not showing those images and his scars. 
 
He's had several reconstructive surgeries that have patched his jaw back together. But Iranian authorities haven't left him alone. He says they freeze his bank account at times and call threatening to kill his children and rape his wife. 
 
It's all part of the disturbing playbook that several protesters CNN spoke with have experienced firsthand. They're watched through CCTV cameras and by state sponsored hackers online. 
 
Hunted, tortured forever stalked and threatened. But that's not stopping the thousands risking it all every day in Iran. Farhad is back out protesting, this time with his children. He knows the cost of defiance, but it's a price he's willing to pay for their freedom. 
 
We asked the Iranian Government about these firsthand accounts of arbitrary detention, torture and harassment of protesters, as well as the widespread violations documented by human rights organizations, but they did not respond to our request for comment. 
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Iranian rock climber Elnaz Rekabi, met with the country's sports minister Wednesday after returning from a tournament in Seoul, but she competed without her headscarf. 
 
According to state media, the minister expressed his support for Rekabi and encouraged her to continue her career. 
 
The International Olympic Committee says Iran has given assurances that Rekabi will not face consequences for competing without her hijab. 
 
It wasn't so long ago, Moscow declared occupied Kherson, we are here to stay. Now, there's a new message, you have to go, details in a moment. And the people in Ukraine being recognized for their bravery and their fight for freedom with an award named after a Soviet dissident. More on that when we return.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:26:41]
 
VAUSE: Welcome back to our viewers all around the world. I'm John Vause, you're watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
The latest developments now on the war in Ukraine and Russian attacks on critical civilian infrastructure in Ukraine continue especially targeting the power grid. 
 
And with winter looming, more than a third of the country's power stations have either been damaged or destroyed during weeks of ongoing attacks, leaving many Ukrainians out in the cold and the dark.
 
And to conserve what power there is, all Ukrainians now under usage restrictions until 11:00 p.m. local time. 
 
On Wednesday, Russian leader Vladimir Putin declared martial law in four Ukrainian regions illegally annexed by Russia just weeks ago. We should note that Russia is not fully controlled or that annex territory. 
 
Most immediately local Ukrainians were urged to leave in those Russian held areas in the guise of emergency evacuations. Ukraine accused Russia of inciting hysteria among the population. 
 
Kherson was the first major city that Ukraine lost in the early days of the war, and a place that one Russian official said would be in Russia's hands forever. 
 
But now Moscow's message to the residents of Kherson has changed, you need to leave.
 
Nic Robertson reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice over): Ukrainian civilians now under Russian martial law in Kherson city lined up to be evacuated potentially to Russia. 
 
Russian imposed officials in illegally annexed Kherson have told them it's not safe to stay. Up to 60,000 forced out. Boats used to ferry them away from the front line and their homes to an uncertain future.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I bought extra clothes for my dog. My other half, my antidepressant.
 
ROBERTSON: Ukrainian officials have accused Russia of whipping up hysteria, compelling people to leave. Residents received text messages Wednesday morning from the pro-Russian administration. Dear residents, it read, evacuate immediately. There will be shelling
 
 of residential areas by the armed forces of Ukraine. 
 
The punishment under martial law for failing to comply unknown, the threat clear. 
 
KIRILL STREMOUSOV, RUSSIA-INSTALLED DEPUTY GOVERNOR OF KHERSON REGION (through translator): I ask you to take my word seriously and to understand them as meaning as prompt and evacuation as possible.
 
ROBERTSON: Vladimir Putin is tightening his grip not just on Kherson, but Donetsk, Luhansk and Zaporizhzhia. The four territories here illegally annexed last month, all put under military command. 
 
Ukrainian forces had been advancing through several parts of the Kherson region in recent weeks, capturing villages and farmlands along the west and banker, the Dnipro River. 
 
The Kremlin's new commander for Ukraine said Tuesday that the situation in Kherson was far from simple and implicitly hinted his forces may withdraw. 
 
SERGEI SUROVIKIN, COMMANDER OF RUSSIAN OPERATIONS IN UKRAINE: Our further plans and actions regarding the city of Kherson will depend on the unfolding military and tactical situation on the ground. I repeat, it is already very difficult today.
 
ROBERTSON: Across the rest of Ukraine, Putin's forces kept up their barrage on power stations, and despite at least four cruise missiles and 10 drones shut down by Ukrainian forces, another three electricity generating plants hit. More Ukrainians denied power and water. 
 <br>[00:30:13]
 
Amid those dwindling supplies, President Zelenskyy calling a crisis meeting to head off a nationwide blackout, vowing to keep critical infrastructure up and running. 
 
ROBERTSON: In this war, Putin is turning out the lights, but it is Ukraine that's taking the key commodity, territory. Putin's martial law, officials here say, an indication of just how much he's losing control. 
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, Kyiv, Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Steve Hall is a CNN national security analyst and former CIA chief of Russia operations. 
 
Good to see you. 
 
STEVE HALL, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Great to be here. 
 
VAUSE: OK, so just a few weeks ago, referendums on joining Russia were held in those Ukrainian regions. The vote ended with a 90 percent in favor. And on that, here's the State Department spokesperson on Wednesday. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VEDANT PATEL, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSON: It should be no surprise to anybody that Russia is resorting to desperate tactics to try and enforce control in these areas. 
 
The truth is -- is that Russia is not wanted in these regions, and the people of Ukraine are rejecting Russia's illegal invasion and seizure by force of what is Ukrainian territory. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: It's a fair point, and in terms of everyday life, though, in those regions, which have been under military occupation, with the military calling the shots on a daily basis, will martial law be essentially a distinction without a difference? 
 
HALL: Yes, absolutely, it will be. I mean, you know, except I would take a slightly different spin on it. 
 
Yes, of course, the Russians have been in the Donbas region, have been in Luhansk and Donetsk, you know, for many years now. But they clearly right now don't control them. 
 
And so how you actually start martial law, how you actually enforce martial law in regions that you don't fully control, I think is a mystery and I think, quite frankly, is silly. I mean, there's  -- martial law implies that you have a way to enforce your will. And clearly, the Russians don't have the Donbas covered 100 percent in terms of being able to control it. 
 
VAUSE: One thing this declaration does do: it gives Moscow -- the Moscow-backed leaders in those four regions authority to conscript their own regional defense forces. Something like that. 
 
Is that an attempt, basically, to reduce the need to send troops from, you know, from Russia proper into Ukraine, to try and counter some of the backlash Putin has received over that national call-up? 
 
HALL: You know, again, inside of Ukraine, to include Luhansk, Donetsk and the rest of the Donbas region, you know, the Russians could have tried to force Ukrainians or perhaps recruit Ukrainians that might be -- might think more positively about Russia than other Ukrainians do. They could do that before the enforcement of martial law. 
 
So again, it's possible that they're trying to make it slightly easier for themselves in those areas that they control. But again, if you don't control, you know, a particular part of an area, then you know, you can't forcibly conscript anybody, or really, you can't even recruit people who perhaps want to fight for you. 
 
So again, it's -- it's a bit of a mystery as to why they think martial law is going to be particularly effective inside of Ukraine, to include the Donbas. VAUSE: So then we look at what's happening outside Ukraine, inside
 
 Russia. And this may have more impact, actually, because Putin has enacted sort of martial law light. It's one step below a full declaration. 
 
The governors in a regions bordering Ukraine, they've been greater authority to maintain control, maintain public order, ensure troop supplies, that sort of thing. 
 
Where do you see this now heading? 
 
HALL: Yes, so actually, that's quite a bit more interesting for me, those oblasts, those regions that surround what's under attack in Ukraine by the Russians right now. 
 
So it will be interesting, because one of the things that I say a lot, when I talk about this is, there's really no rule of law in Russia. but then the question becomes, well, if there's no rule of law, then why are they doing things like, you know, declaring martial law? 
 
And one of the things that I think is just part of human nature is, if you've got governors in those areas who respond directly to Putin, directly to the Kremlin, you of course, have generals that report fairly directly to the -- to the Kremlin and to Putin himself. We have information that Putin himself was calling up and directing military operations. 
 
And I think this, in part, is just a desire on the Kremlin's part to try to make sure everybody knows who's in charge in those Russian areas that surround Ukraine. And the answer is, it's the military. 
 
It shows that they're very concerned, I think, about sabotage operations, paramilitary operations on the part of the Ukrainians into Russia, behind Russian lines. And for that reason, I think, among several others perhaps, is why martial law or martial law light, one stage before that, has been declared in those areas. 
 
VAUSE: What about the extra powers that Putin gets from this declaration inside Russia, in the sense of the greater authority he's receiving under these new laws? And the speculation that it's moved to a war footing for the entire nation. How do you see that? 
 <br>[00:35:13]
 
HALL: I think it's more, again, just to simply be able to control things better on the battlefield in those areas that are nearby. 
 
Remember, you've got a lot of logistics going through these, going through some of these towns that are right on the border or close to the border with Ukraine. 
 
So I think it's a desire to have a better logistics train, a better communication command and control. And again, there are two reasons for that. 
 
The first is the logistics have been such a horrible part of this war for the Russians. The Ukrainians have been so good at disrupting the logistics. They weren't great anyway, but the Ukrainians have had significant success.
 
And then again, the other thing is simply firm command and control, to make sure that the Kremlin, when it wants something done, there's not a governor fighting with the military commander, fighting with, you know, one of these self-proclaimed, you know, fighters that are fighting inside of Ukraine. 
 
So it's an effort, I think, to streamline that and, hopefully, make the whole war effort more efficient and better. 
 
VAUSE: Steve, thanks so much. Really appreciate your insights. It's great. 
 
HALL: My pleasure. 
 
VAUSE: The bravery and resilience of the Ukrainian people is being honored by the European Parliament. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERTA METSOLA, EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT PRESIDENT: The 2022 Sakharov Prize for freedom of thought has been awarded to the brave people of Ukraine, represented by their president, elected leaders and civil society. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The Sakharov Prize is awarded annually to individuals and organizations which defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, a point not lost on some residents in Kyiv. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): Now Ukraine is in the center of the world's attention. Ukraine deserves the prize, because it sets an example of what a democratic society should be. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We have always fought to be free. We have always strived to be free. Now for the whole world, Ukraine is the top issue. With our deeds and actions, we demonstrate that we are independent and free. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The prize is named after the late Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov and has been awarded every year since 1988. 
 
When we come back here on CNN, public dissent, rarely seen in China, as anger over zero-COVID slowly bubbles to the surface. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Cracks in Beijing's strict zero-COVID policy becoming harder to ignore, as anger grows over repeated lockdowns, daily COVID testing, and forced isolation. 
 
Chinese President Xi Jinping says he has prioritized the people and their lives above all else to hold back the virus. But the images coming from the streets tell a very different story. 
 
Here's CNN's Selina Wang. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): He struggles to breathe and crawl, sweating profusely, exhausted under the weight of his hazmat suits. He's wearing layers and layers of them. 
 <br>[00:40:09]
 
This is a demonstration from a Chinese citizen, all the way in New York City's Times Square, a metaphor for the suffocating zero-COVID policy many feel in Xi Jinping's China.
 
It's to mark the ongoing Communist Party Congress, where Xi is expected to secure his unprecedented third term. 
 
ZHISHENG WU, CHINESE ARTIST: There are so many repressive -- repressed emotions during these two or three years. I vent my emotion out. 
 
WANG (voice-over): But in China, shows of defiance are swiftly censored. Just a week before in Beijing, two big banners attacking China's supreme leader and his COVID policies were hung on a busy overpass. 
 
One of them reads, "Say no to COVID test, yes to food, no to lockdown, yes to freedom." 
 
The other banner reads, "Remove dictator and national traitor, Xi Jinping." 
 
People involved in the demonstration could be jailed or even worse. 
 
Chinese draconian zero-COVID policies have descended millions of lives into chaos. Fights with COVID enforcers; screens for freedom from locked apartments; protests for food and supplies. 
 
During the snap lockdown in an airport in Southern China, security even held guns near travelers. 
 
Entire cities are still being locked down over a handful of COVID cases. This woman yelling out in frustration that she's been in isolation for six months already, but the images of pain erased from China's Internet. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's just a general inhumane policy where people are being forced and herded, and their dignity is being taken away. 
 
WANG (voice-over): We are not revealing this resident's identity because of fears of retribution for criticizing the government. WANG: So why is Xi Jinping sticking to zero-COVID? 
 
STEVE TSANG, DIRECTOR, SOAS CHINA INSTITUTE: Because Xi Jinping can never be seen to have made a mistake. Constantly, we have the party, public and the machinery churning out narrative of that. in fact, zero-COVID is protecting life in China. 
 
WANG (voice-over): Beijing claims there would be a disastrous healthcare scenario, like the million-plus COVID deaths in America, if China didn't have its zero-COVID policy. 
 
The pandemic is also Beijing's perfect chance to upgrade its surveillance technologies, including mandatory smartphone health apps that track the daily movements of virtually all 1.4 billion people. 
 
Yet many in China have adapted to the new normal, with regular COVID test and rolling lockdowns. 
 
But back in New York, this Chinese artist is doing what he can to remind the world that, while they've moved on from COVID, millions in China are still suffering under the weight of lockdowns and repression. 
 
Selina Wang, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
VAUSE: A new face is coming to U.S. currency. Actress Anna May Wong will appear on the back of the quarter starting on Monday. The siler screen star of the 1920s and '30s, the first Asian-American featured on U.S. currency. 
 
Wong overcame widespread discrimination, carving out a career in Hollywood, best known for the 1932 film, "Shanghai Express." Her keen sense of style made her a fashion icon. And she spent her life advocating for Asian-Americans, actors in Hollywood. 
 
I'm John Vause. Stay with us. I'll be back in about 15 minutes from now, with another hour of CNN NEWSROOM. In the meantime, WORLD SPORT is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:18]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[00:57:59]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)