Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Georgia Voters Head to Polls in Crucial Senate Runoff; Jan. 6 Hero Officers to Receive Congressional Gold Medal; North Carolina County Enters Fourth Day Without Power After Substation Attacks. Aired 10-10:30a ET

Aired December 06, 2022 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR:  Top of the hour this Tuesday morning. I'm Jim sciutto.
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR:  And I'm Erica Hill.
 
Happening right now, no wait, Georgia election officials telling CNN the average wait time to vote in the Senate runoff election under two minutes. This morning, more than a quarter million votes have already been cast, as Republican Senate Candidate Herschel Walker looking to unseat Democratic Senator Raphael Warnock. We are live for you in Atlanta.
 
SCIUTTO:  Plus, total blackout, more than 35,000 customers remain without power and Moore County, North Carolina, schools also closed. Officials still searching for the person or persons who sabotaged the power infrastructure there. Ahead, Pinehurst, North Carolina Mayor John Strickland, he's going to join me with the latest details.
 
We begin though this morning with Georgia Senate runoff. CNN Correspondent Dianne Gallagher, he is at a polling site in Fulton County, Georgia. So, polls open for about three hours now. What is the turnout look like where you are?
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  So, you can't tell because there are no long lines behind me. But, look, that is a good thing for voters. The Georgia Secretary of State's Office unofficially estimated that at least a quarter million of people have already cast their ballots today. So, people are out there voting. And, look, wait time under around a minute-and-a-half right now. So, it is a swift process if you're in the right place.
 
Of course, a lot of Georgians, more than 1.85 million, voted early through those five mandatory days of early voting, long lines during that period. But you were going to different areas then. We've seen a lot of confusion at this particular precinct in Southwest Atlanta, where people are coming here thinking this is where they're supposed to vote and they're told you can't vote here. This is not your home precinct. In fact, to be honest, within the past hour, we've seen more people be turned away than have actually been able to complete their ballots at this particular location. For those who can, though, they tell us, it has been a very, very painless process.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The lines last week was so long, I couldn't stand it. So, I knew that I could come today.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  When we walked right in, it is not a line, not a wait.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  My experience today is wonderful, like always. Whenever I come, I always come after the early vote. And I never have to stand in line.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GALLAGHER:  And, again, polls open until 7:00 P.M. here in Georgia. And as always, if you are in line when the polls close, you can stay in line and vote.
 
HILL:  Yes, absolutely. Dianne Gallagher, I appreciate it. Thank you.
 
John Berman standing by at the magic wall this morning. So, there were new rules about early voting in Georgia, a little back and forth on that legally, as we know. Did that have an impact on turnout?
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  So, that is one of the main things we're waiting to see at this point and will be one of the most interesting things to watch. What we do know is now in this election, I'm going to write now, we've had 1.8 million early votes, 1.8 million, including some days with record numbers of early votes.
 
But, but in the election one month ago, there were actually 2.3 million early voters. And if you go back to the runoff in 2021, on January 5th, it was actually 3.1 million. So, that number that you're looking at right there in terms of early votes right now, where you see 1.8 million voters, it is a lot.
 
But what we want to see is if the same day vote, the Election Day vote is greater. Because the reason this is lower right now is there were far fewer days of early voting. There were just five mandated statewide vote days for this runoff. It was a much longer period before the November election, even longer before the election runoff in 2021.
 
So, will there will be more Election Day votes as a result or will the proportion of Election Day votes go down as well? Democrats, last few elections, have tended to vote more in the early votes, Republicans more on Election Day.
 <br>[10:05:04]
 
We're waiting to see. We just don't know because this is a new date for the runoff. It is a month earlier than it was two years ago. In terms of where to watch today as the votes come in, I pointed out to you before and I'll do it again, there are three counties, Jefferson, Sumter and Clay. What these three counties have in common of the 159 counties in Georgia, it has the second highest number of counties in the country after Texas. Out of 159 counties, these three voted for the Democratic candidate, Raphael Warnock, and the Republican gubernatorial candidate, Brian Kemp. Those were the only three counties of 159 that went Republican for governor and went Democratic for Senate.
 
Herschel walker, who trailed Raphael Warnock only by 37,000 votes, he will need to win counties like this that went for the Republican, Brian Kemp, because you can see Herschel Walker got 1.9 million votes one month ago. The Republican Brian Kemp got 2.1 million. He got 200,000 more votes. So, Herschel Walker needs to make up some of that gap there if, if he wants to beat Raphael Warnock today. Jim, Erica?
 
HILL:  John Berman, I appreciate it. Thank you.
 
SCIUTTO:  All right. Joining us now, Bill Nigut, executive producer and host of Georgia Public Television Political Rewind and CNN Chief National Affairs Correspondent Jeff Zeleny.
 
Bill, if I can begin with you, ultimately, we tend to talk about this race in national terms, Democratic control of the Senate, or greater control, right, in this, case 51-49. Trump's endorsement of the Republican candidate, Herschel Walker, the impact of that, but, ultimately, were those national issues the one that have been driving this race? Is that what is going to make the difference here or is it more local issues?
 
BILL NIGUT, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER AND HOST, GPB'S POLITICAL REWIND: Well, it depends on which side of the campaign you're on. In the Herschel Walker campaign, they have spent most of their time trying to tie Raphael Warnock to President Biden, making it a national issue. If you see all of the commercials been run either by the Walker campaigns or the PACs, many of them are all about he's a rubber stamp for President Biden. So, they try to nationalize the race.
 
A Raphael Warnock on the other hand has talked about issues that are of important to people in Georgia. A primary one being the fight that he made to lower the cost of insulin that he was able to get at least part of what he wanted through. So, yes, Republicans wanted to be a nationalized race. Warnock wants to talk about what he's done for the people of Georgia.
 
HILL:  And it is interesting, Jeff, a former lieutenant governor told Anderson that the party needs to break the vicious cycle of addiction to Trump, it is time to figure out who the real leader is. As everybody watches in this race, it is going to be yet another one that will be scrutinized for the former president's pick here. Is the Republican Party, is there a sense that based on recent events is maybe ready to move on, Jeff?
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  We'll see. I mean, we've been at this juncture, Erica, several times before where it seems the party is ready to move on. I think officials in the party are, but the base of the party, the life blood, the rank and file of the party have not indicated that their ready to move on.
 
But there is no doubt that the former president is hanging over this race in every way. I mean, we should remember, he's the one who recruited Herschel Walker to run for the Senate here in Georgia. Most Senate Republican leaders, including Mitch McConnell, were not enthusiastic at all about Herschel Walker winning and he was exhibit A comment that McConnell made earlier this year about a lack of quality candidates.
 
Now, eventually they got on board, but the reality is that Donald Trump remains a double-edged sword. He inspires his own base of voters but he turns off independent voters. That was the story in state after state in November. We'll see what happens today here in Georgia. But it certainly is going to sort of end the year and begin the New Year with a referendum on Trump if he is a negative in every respect or if it's different here today in Georgia. But those independent voters have made the case that they simply have not signed on with any Trump- endorsed candidate. We'll see if that holds today in Georgia as well.
 
SCIUTTO:  Bill, there was an enormous amount of attention on changes to Georgia voting laws following the 2020 election. Among those changes was shortening the number of early voting days before a runoff election like this one. Traditionally, it is believed Democrats have an advantage in Georgia in those early voting days, Republicans on the day of. Is there any evidence to date, at least, well, in this election it is early, but in the previous, in the midterms, that those changes advantaged one party over another?
 
NIGUT:  I think yes.
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
And I think you just heard that a little while ago from John Berman. But what the previous runoff election for Senate in 2021, which put two Democrats, Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, in the U.S. Senate, that was a nine-week period. And Democrats turned out in huge numbers, over 2.3 million of them in early voting there. The fact that then the Republican legislature decided to compact the runoff period to five days did, in fact, make it less available, make early voting days less available to black voters who tend to have a more rigid work schedules, according to what Democrats say, than many other people who can turn out to vote. But, yes, that five-day period has really suppressed to some extent what we might have seen with a nine-week runoff how many Democrats might have cast ballots.
 
HILL:  There has been such added importance to these races in Georgia over the last two election cycles. The newly proposed 2024 DNC calendar would move Georgia up to an early primary state. Jeff, as we look at this, do you see Georgia -- is it really poised to become more of a national player in future races, and if so, what is the resource structure like for that?
 
ZELENY:  There is no doubt that Georgia is now one of the classic American political battlegrounds. It really has taken Florida from this. It is going to be a battleground. We'll see today if it is going to turn blue, at least in the Senate level. But it is a purple state, without question, a Republican governor, and we'll see if there are two Democratic senators or a split there. But, no doubt, Georgia is a key battleground, a top battleground for the next elections to come. Erica?
 
NIGUT:  Would it be okay if I made a point about that?
 
SCIUTTO:  Sure, quickly.
 
NIGUT:  Really quickly. Although the DNC would like Georgia to move way up in the presidential primary schedule, that is going to depend on the fact that Georgia's legislature is controlled by Republicans. The Secretary of State's Office has already said that they're not enthusiastic about Georgia moving up in the schedule, and so I'm not sure that the state is going to -- the Republicans in the state are going to allow this to happen. It is going to be an interesting battle in the weeks ahead.
 
SCIUTTO:  No question. We'll watch. Bill Nigut, Jeff Zeleny, thanks so much to both of you.
 
CNN special live coverage of the Georgia runoff starts today at 4:00 Eastern Time.
 
HILL:  Members of Congress is set to come together to give the body's highest honor to officers who help protect the U.S. Capitol during the January 6 riots, the Capitol and the D.C. Metropolitan Police who defended members of Congress and then Vice President Pence from high rioters, who, of course, were trying to stop the certification of the 2020 election results. They're being honored with a congressional gold medal in a ceremony in the Capitol rotunda.
 
Joining us now with details, CNN Chief Congressional Correspondent Manu Raju. The congressional gold medal, this is an enormous honor to give these soldiers who laid down their lives. What do we expect to see from Congress today?
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, the highest honor that Congress could give to the U.S. Capitol Police, the Metro Police in D.C., that defended the Capitol on this day and the violent brutal attack that occurred here on January 6, 2021. We do expect to hear from all congressional leaders.
 
The way it will go down is something like this, Nancy Pelosi, the outgoing House speaker, is expected to give remarks. That is going to be followed by the Republican leader, Kevin McCarthy, as well as Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, the minority leader, and also the Senate majority leader, Chuck Schumer. They give brief remarks. There will be singing of God Bless America. There will be a prayer by the chaplain and the congressional gold medal will be honored here.
 
Now, Republicans and Democrats came together for this vote but there were still some who voted against this. There were 21 Republicans on the House side who voted against awarding the congressional gold medal to the U.S. Capitol Police, the D.C. Metro Police. They contended there were different versions of the bill that they supported. One of them I just spoke to this morning, Chip Roy, said that he supported a different version of this bill. But, nevertheless, there was some dissent on the Republican side of the aisle to giving this gold medal.
 
But the Republican leader, Kevin McCarthy was asked at the time about this. He sort of brushed over those divisions under the rug. But he is expected to be among those speaking today here in a matter of minutes as Congress comes together here to award this high honor to the people who protected this building. Guys?
 
HILL:  Manu Raju, I appreciate it, thank you.
 
SCIUTTO:  Still to come this hour, federal and local investigators still searching for suspects, as well as a motive, behind the North Carolina power grid attack, which has left tens of thousands without power still today. The mayor of one of the cities impacted, he will join me live next.
 <br>[10:15:02]
 
Plus, Russia says that Ukraine launched attacks against two military airbases well inside its territory using drones. We're going to have a live update just ahead.
 
HILL:  Also ahead, the Supreme Court set to take up a controversial independent state legislature theory. How this ruling could impact voting and much more around the U.S.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SCIUTTO:  Right now, more than 35,000 people in Moore County, North Carolina, have no heat and no power for a fourth day. The governor, Roy Cooper, says that the damage the person did at this station here is enormous and calls the attack on the North Carolina power grid criminal.
 <br>[10:20:05]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. ROY COOPER (D-NC):  This was a specific act. The person or persons knew what they were doing. And what it took to disable this substation. So, what we're going to have to do is to work with state and federal officials and I think this needs to be a national conversation about the level of security that we have at these substations across the country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO:  That is quite a task. Schools in the area remain closed. State of emergency in effect as the blackout is causing car crashes because the traffic lights aren't working. In addition, fires as well, people trying to find alternative ways to heat their homes.
 
Joining us now is the mayor of Pinehurst, North Carolina, John Strickland. Mayor, thanks for taking the time this morning. MAYOR JOHN STRICKLAND, PINEHURST, NORTH CAROLINA:  You're welcome. Thank you.
 
SCIUTTO:  First of all, I know teams are working hard to get power restored. What's the best estimate as to when residents will have their power back?
 
STRICKLAND:  Well, it is a good news, bad news situation or challenging news, I would say, Jim. We started with about 45,000 customers without power in Moore County and Pinehurst on Saturday night. That number has declined to about 34,000, so that is good news, and that is declined. But, of course, that means that we have 34,000 people who are challenged by cold homes and lack of light. The best estimate now, according to Duke Energy, is Thursday to try to have power restored across the county.
 
SCIUTTO:  Do you have any more information about who, what group or individuals were behind this attack? Are authorities sharing that information with you?
 
STRICKLAND:  I have nothing to add beyond what the sheriff and the state bureau of investigation and the FBI are doing. And I think for the benefit of our citizens, I wouldn't want to make any speculation because it is the law enforcement activities that will define what those problems caused and who do it.
 
SCIUTTO:  Understood. Looking back, there was a warning from the Department of Homeland Security that North Carolina and other states around the country could see a threat of attacks from domestic violent extremist groups with a particular focus on power substations and an idea that that would cause unrest and violence to take the power out. Did you, as mayor of Pinehurst, receive or were you aware of any warnings prior to this attack of a threat like this?
 
STRICLAND:  No. But, again, that information would be best kept at the level of our law enforcement authorities and, again, they would be the ones to comment further on that, and I'm sure you're doing that.
 
SCIUTTO:  You heard the governor, Roy Cooper, there talk about how states around the country have to be thinking about this, right? They have to be thinking about the power grid being a potential vulnerable point for attacks and but that is quite a job, right? In your town and just think of all the towns around America where there are substations like this, it is quite an infrastructure or system of infrastructure to protect. Do you believe that this is something, looking forward, you're going to have to provide better protection for to prevent another attack like this happening?
 
STRICKLAND:  I think it is something for us to consider, but, again, we would take direction from the governor on that and certainly all the authorities looking into this investigation and figuring out really what did occur. I think speculation again at this point is not helpful and is really -- we're trying to create the best information system we can for our residents and give them information that they need to exist over the next few days. And speculation about other issues related to how are kept are best left with the governor and the FBI.
 
SCIUTTO:  Well, do you have a message for residents who are still being impacted by this, the many tens of thousands, as they await for relief?
 
STRICKLAND:  Sure, and it is really this. As I mentioned earlier, we have some challenges still. People are waking up today cold in dark. Luckily, Jim, the weather is a bit of a help to us here and that cold temperatures we had over the weekend are being replaced by much warmer temperatures today, even up into the 70s by daytime tomorrow and Thursday.
 
So, we think that will give the work crews of Duke Power, who are resolving these damaged centers, the opportunity to complete that work in as quickest time as they can. But, again, we have to be patient with them so that they can get their work done and do it in a good way.
 
You know, we're the home of American golf here and the core of our village is a national historic landmark. So, we're used to dealing with large situations, not quite like this. We have occasional hurricanes and ice storms that take the power grid down occasionally.
 <br>[10:25:02]
 
So, we have plans and I think the plans of our village staff are being well acted out by our public services staff, also our public safety officials who are coordinating with me on all of this.
 
SCIUTTO:  Well, listen, we wish you and we wish those teams the best of luck. Mayor John Strickland of Pinehurst, thanks so much for joining us.
 
STRICKLAND:  Thanks for your time.
 
HILL:  Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visiting troops near the frontlines, as Russian strikes continue around the Zaporizhzhia region. We have got the latest on Russia's war in Ukraine, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]