Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: At Least 153 Killed, 133 Injured In Seoul Halloween Crowd Surge; Source: Suspect In Paul Pelosi Attack Had A Bag Of Zip Ties With Him; Pelosi: Family "Heartbroken And Traumatized" After Attack On Husband; Feds: Domestic Violent Extremists Pose Heightened Threat To Elections; Georgia Black Churches Hold Traditional "Souls To The Polls" Events; Russia Says It Is Suspending Grain Deal With Ukraine; Ukraine Accuses Russia Of Playing "Hunger Games" Over Grain Deal; RSV Surges Amid Staffing Shortages At Some Hospitals; Some Forms Of Common Antibiotic In Short Supply; Video, Eyewitness Accounts Cast Doubt On Iran's Story Of How 16-Year-Old Protester Died; Halloween Candy Prices Soar As Inflation Remains Stubbornly High. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired October 30, 2022 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:41]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Sunday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
We begin this hour with a country in mourning heartbroken and searching for answers after a Halloween celebration in South Korea turned deadly. A crowd surging in a popular Seoul nightclub district killing at least 153 people. We're now learning at least two Americans were among those killed. Authorities are still trying to determine what triggered the crush.
 
Witnesses say people were trapped and panicked because they couldn't breathe. World leaders are offering their condolences. President Biden saying he grieves with the South Korean people.
 
Reporting now from the scene of this deadly surge CNN's Senior International Correspondent Will Ripley.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): RIPLEY (voice-over): Halloween horror and heartbreak. In Seoul's popular nightlife district, nightmare scenes. The narrow alleys of Itaewon lined with lifeless bodies, many in costume. Frantic first responders trying to save them.
 
(on-camera): This is a row of stretchers that we initially thought. We're waiting for potential survivors of this incident at a Halloween party where thousands of people were packed into a relatively tight area. But in fact, we've now realized that these stretchers are being used to bring back bodies and we've just seen body after body rolling past here. (voice-over): Most of those hurt or killed in their late teens and 20s, the local fire chief says. Young people from South Korea and beyond. Witnesses say, Itaewon's iconic Halloween festivities always draw an international crowd. This video on Twitter shows an apparent lack of crowd control.
 
A sea of bodies pouring into a tiny area. An ominous warning telling people to be careful. Police and emergency crews rushed to the scene shortly after 10:00 p.m. local, Saturday night. Yonhap News Agency reported, emergency lines flooded with calls from people in the packed area, saying they were stuck, suffocating. Some who fell down apparently crushed under a growing pile of people.
 
Official causes of death, not confirmed, but Yonhap reporting dozens suffered cardiac arrest.
 
SONG SEHYUN, WITNESS: And I saw the people is like going to the left side and I actually saw the person actually getting to the opposite side. So actually the person in the middle, they got jammed and they have like no way to communicate and they're like, you know, they cannot breathe.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): The fire chief calls this a presumed stampede. The investigation is ongoing. Social media video shows emergency crews struggling, pulling injured and unconscious victims from the narrow alleyways, still jammed with hundreds if not thousands of people.
 
South Korea's President Yoon Suk-yeol, holding an emergency Cabinet meeting. The tragic incident now being treated as a national disaster. Authority say hospital beds and morgues filling up fast. President Yoon making rapid identification of victims a top priority.
 
Anxious families and friends desperately waiting for word, waiting for loved ones who left for a night of Halloween fun and haven't come home.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY: For all of that chaos last night, Fred, this scene is in some ways even more chilling because there were so many bodies that were lining the street. Friends attempting to perform CPR, paramedics doing what they could.
 
We talked to them last hour with a first responder who described in that narrow alleyway. When they first arrived for it, all they saw were human faces about 10 people high. So just imagine faces sticking out of the crowd in a space that's maybe, you know, 6.5, 7 feet wide, stacked up 10 people. So they're pulling people out.
 
And as they're pulling them out, they're losing consciousness and they're putting them down on the pavement and these people are unconscious at that point. But they were still conscious when the first responders first arrived.
 <br>[11:05:03] You know, some of them unable to speak because they were getting crushed so much. You know, but with their eyes begging for help. And, of course, now you have this area where most of the people die blocked off. You zoom in there and you can see this trash bags, there's pieces of people's Halloween costumes, there's somebody shoe sitting on top of there.
 
153 deaths at least, including people from countries, the United States just confirmed, but also China, Iran, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Japan, Australia, Norway, France, Austria. This truly is, Fred, an international tragedy and a lot of questions still unanswered as to how this happened, how can they prevent it from happening again.
 
WHITFIELD: Indeed. I mean, you did such a great job explaining that, but it's still just mind boggling to understand how in the world and why it happened the way it did.
 
Will Ripley, thank you so much.
 
All right, and now to a CNN exclusive, chilling new details about the attack on the husband of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. A source familiar with the incident tells CNN that the suspected assailant had a bag of zip ties during the break in on Friday.
 
Paul Pelosi is still recovering in a hospital this morning. He suffered a skull fracture and injuries to his hands and right arm when he was struck with a hammer. President Biden speaking about the attack for the first time and blasting those who have propped up conspiracy theories.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It's one thing to condemn the violence. But you can't condemn the violence unless you condemn those people continue to argue the election was not real, that is being stolen. That all, all the malarkey that's been put out there to undermine democracy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: CNN's Sunlen Serfaty has more from Washington. Sunlen, we're also hearing from the House Speaker for the first time since this attack, what does she have to say?
 
SUNLEN SERFATY, CNN WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Fred. And you can really hear the raw emotion in her voice when she put out this statement using words like heartbreaking and traumatizing to describe this attack that happened on her husband. And she says in part, quote, "Friday morning, a violent man broke into our family home, demanded to confront me and brutally attacked my husband Paul. Our children, our grandchildren, and I are heartbroken and traumatized by the life- threatening attack on our Pop. We are grateful for the quick response of law enforcement and emergency services and for the life-saving medical care he is receiving."
 
And one part of good news in this statement, she does mention that her husband is continuing to have a better condition. He says -- she says, every day his condition gets better. This was her first statement coming from her own voice since the attack on Friday. And this was a dear colleague that was sent to members and staff on Capitol Hill.
 
And it comes also at a time that there is heightened anxiety about members and their family members, personal safety and a lot of lawmakers are frustrated. They also received a letter yesterday from the House sergeant of arms and the chief of the U.S. Capitol Police updating them about what existing protocols in place to protect them, what services are already offered.
 
But again, a lot of members especially in light of this latest brutal attack, say that's not good enough and are frustrated and want more security. So that's something that certainly this week, Fred, will be on top of mind on many lawmakers' mind as they, you know, grapple with the fallout from this brutal attack.
 
WHITFIELD: Sunlen Serfaty in Washington, thank you so much. Meantime, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy is weighing in on the attack. And he did so again in the last hour saying this on Fox News.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R), MINORITY LEADER: Let me be perfectly clear, violence or threat of violence has no place in our society. What happened to Paul Pelosi is wrong. Having heard it, I reached out and called the Speaker. She was on a plane back for her husband, so we were able to communicate by text. She did say that the surgery went well. I wanted to convey that our thoughts and prayers were with her and her family and with Paul, and we hope for him a speedy recovery and that we're able to stop this crime across our country. Of course this person seems deranged and others.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Joining us right now, Illinois Democrat Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi. Congressman, so good to see you. So, you know, I wonder, you know, while the Minority Leader is condemning violence, he didn't address the spread of conspiracy theories that may have led up to an attack like what was experienced on Paul Pelosi.
 
I mean, he said violence has no place in our society. What happened to Paul Pelosi is wrong. I mean, without being disrespectful, I mean, that's just overstating the obvious, but does it more need to be said from leadership of all parties? I mean what is the risk of, say, the Minority Leader not saying more than that?
 <br>[11:10:10]
 
REP. RAJA KRISHNAMOORTHI (D), ILLINOIS: You're correct, Fredricka. And first of all, I think everybody is praying for Paul Pelosi speedy recovery at this point, as well as for the Speaker and her family. But I think what Mr. McCarthy didn't say was that this is a form of political violence, Fredricka. What the assailant shouted upon entry into the Pelosi household was, "Where is Nancy, where is Nancy?" and that echoed exactly the chants of the January 6 insurrectionists, when they breached the Capitol.
 
And this is just the combination of the demonization of Nancy Pelosi by many folks on the other side of the aisle. You know, my colleague, Marjorie Taylor Greene, in Facebook posts called for her being found to have committed treason, and saying that execution was appropriate. A GOP candidate for Senate in the Arizona primary last year ran a Super Bowl ad featuring him shooting Nancy Pelosi in the ad.
 
So this type of dangerous violent rhetoric is going to lead to the natural result, which is violence. And that's what happened with Paul Pelosi.
 
WHITFIELD: So is it your belief that if it were Marjorie Taylor Greene, or perhaps even a Minority Leader McCarthy, if they were to say, more forcefully singling out people who are coming from a particular persuasion, not to be violent, not to help incite violence, to stop saying aloud the dangerous things that you just reiterated, how much of a difference might that make, in your view?
 
KRISHNAMOORTHI: That make a big difference. Denouncing political violence of all stripes would make a big difference, whether it's by elected officials, or by former presidents like Donald Trump, or by candidates for office. And let me just say one other thing. I think that we have to look at the role of social media and amplifying this dangerous, violent rhetoric.
 
You know, Facebook and Twitter and other platforms make a lot of money from this type of rhetoric and the polarization that results from it. And we have to look very closely at repealing that liability that they enjoy from the negative consequences associated with the -- with this type of content that is routinely trafficked on their platforms as well.
 
WHITFIELD: The Speaker is assigned, you know, a security detail by Capitol Police, even when she's traveling, et cetera. But do you -- and most member -- or I shouldn't even ask the question -- you and most members of Congress do not have kind of 24/7 security, keeping you safe. In the wake of this attack of a family member, the husband of the House Speaker, and also after January 6, is it your view that a reassessment should be made about detail assigned to members of Congress, particularly after they have received threats?
 
KRISHNAMOORTHI: Well, the United States Capitol Police does a very good job of trying to assess the level of, I guess, threats against members and then assigning people to help protect those individuals accordingly. I do think that we need to take a re-examination of the level of security for members but also their families.
 
As you know, most of us are not with our families for roughly, I'd say about 50 percent of the time in any given year. And, you know, during that time that we're away (INAUDIBLE) happened to the Speaker's husband, and you're right, after January 6, the level of threats has just, you know, expanded very significantly.
 
And to the point where, you know, for instance, in my case, you know, we have a squad car that visits my house, often once in the morning and once at night, to just make sure everything is OK. And that's not normal. That is not what it should be in a democracy.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. And then now, I mean, you are on the Intelligence Committee and federal agencies have just recently put out a bulletin warning that perceptions of election fraud will likely result in heightened threats of violence from what you've seen. When we see images in Arizona, of people armed, intimidating just their presence intimidates voters, how worried are you about the threats of violence?
 
KRISHNAMOORTHI: I am concerned. And I respectfully disagree with the judge who said that it was OK for these people who were armed and masked to be at the ballot boxes supposedly guarding the vote or being vigilant about the vote. I think that just intimidates people.
 <br>[11:15:09]
 
And my concern is that, you know, one wrong move, or one wrong word could escalate into violence again. I think that right now, we're kind of at a situation where a lot of people in this country believe that political violence is an acceptable tool for change when it can never be acceptable, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. Those who were outside of that polling station, they have made the claim that they are there to protect the vote. But there are some voters who have felt intimidated and then the judge weighed in, like you said.
 
Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi, thank you so much. Good to see you.
 
KRISHNAMOORTHI: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, still ahead, just nine days to go until the midterm elections, we'll go live to Georgia where we're seeing record breaking early voting in one of the most critical races. Plus, well, you need to add an umbrella to your Halloween costume. Scary skies predicted for trick or treating. The latest forecast straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:20:15]
 
WHITFIELD: Just nine days now until the November election, in Georgia, continues to see a record turnout for early voters in a midterm. So far, more than 1.6 million people have already cast their votes in Georgia and election officials expect that number to surpass the 2 million mark this week.
 
CNN's Nadia Romero joining us now from a church in Decatur, Georgia, which is holding a souls to the polls stroll this morning. Nadia, what can you tell us about this decade's long tradition to get out the vote? And I see, it is teeming with people right now.
 
NADIA ROMERO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It really is, Fred. You know, the church just let out with the morning service here. We're at Beulah Missionary Baptist Church. And this church has such a strong legacy and tradition in this area just outside of Atlanta. And the idea is to encourage people to vote, to encourage people to make their way out to the polls, that's just right next door to the church.
 
I want to introduce you to the senior pastor here, Reverend Dr. Jerry Black. And Pastor, you gave a beautiful sermon in there encouraging your congregation to vote. And you were telling people why souls to the polls has been so important. Can you explain that history, the legacy of souls to the poll in our community?
 
REVEREND DR. JERRY BLACK, SENIOR PASTOR, BEULAH MISSIONARY BAPTIST CHURCH: Well, thank you so much. It has been a major, major concern on our part here at Beulah, and certainly on my part as pastor of Beulah, that our parishioners be very much involved in the political process. That they will engage in this business of voting. And that they will all register so that they will be able to vote.
 
And this voting, early voting that we have here on campus, souls to the polls, is something that I've been very, very excited about, actually dreaming about, because of the fact that it is so important now that we vote and that we do all that we can to get good people into office, political offices, and our voting can make a difference. And certainly Beulah, it has a large congregation. But even if we didn't, I would want just that view, to be sure, to engage in the political process and vote.
 
ROMERO: Senior Pastor Jerry -- Dr. Jerry Black here, thank you for talking with us. So the church here just wrapped up service for the morning. And then it's just a few steps over where you can go to the polling station if you live in this county to vote, Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: All right, very good. Nadia Romero, thank you so much, in Decatur, Georgia.
 
All right, Ukraine is accusing Russia of playing Hunger Games after it pulls out of a deal to keep grain moving out of Ukraine. Why the U.S. is saying this move could have dire consequences around the world?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:27:46]
 
WHITFIELD: Welcome back. The U.S. is calling on Russia to reconsider its decision to suspend the deal that allows grain exports from Ukraine. The U.N. broker deal allowed safe passage of grain out of the black sea ports. Russia made the announcement after accusing Ukraine of launching an attack in Russian controlled Crimea. Ukrainian officials say Moscow is playing Hunger Games with the decision.
 
Secretary of State Antony Blinken also condemned the decision saying, in part, "In suspending this arrangement, Russia is again weaponizing food in the war it started, directly impacting low and middle income countries and global food prices."
 
Nic Robertson is in Kyiv. Nic, what is the latest?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, Secretary Blinken went on to say this, in effect, means Russia President Putin is making a statement that it just doesn't care that people and families across the world will have to pay more for their food. Because that's the implication now it seems of this blockade going back in place again, because it creates a shortage in global food markets, which drives up the price which potentially leads to instability, which was why the U.N. set out to make this deal in the first place.
 
It wasn't an easy deal to do. It was done in two parts. The U.N. getting a deal with Russia, and then another deal separately with Ukraine. And what we understand from the U.N. now is that the U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres, who should have been on his way to an Arab League summit in Algeria, is actually going to hold off on that for a day and try to get this back up and running.
 
We've heard from European Union diplomats as well telling the Russians to, you know, pause and re-engage in this deal. President Zelenskyy here has said that from his perspective, he thinks Russia has been building up to this for some time, that Russia -- and says, Russia, he says, has been essentially throttling back on allowing these shipments.
 
We know that there were nine shipments yesterday, five ships in, four ships out. And according to the U.N. now, there are about 10 ships that should be in motion carrying grain in and out and that's not happening. The other thing that we've learned about in the last few hours is Russia's put a little more detail on these allegations that they're making. 
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
They say that they've been able to capture this underwater drone that they say was part of the attack, that they've gotten into its electronics, and they've been able to see that it came from the coast of Ukraine.
 
Ukrainian officials are saying, look, number one Sevastopol is occupied, illegally annexed by Russia and in their mindset, fair game. And they also point out that it's more than 150 miles away from where these grain shipments are going. From Ukraine's perspective, they really feel that President Putin is trying to put more pressure on them and their allies to negotiate a peace. No one's near that moment, of course.
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Nic Robertson, thanks so much, from Kyiv.
 
All right, in this country, a potential tripledemic looming as a surge of respiratory viruses spreads across the country. How hospitals are coping with an unprecedented season of the flu, RSV and COVID, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:35:25]
 
WHITFIELD: Hospitals nationwide are grappling with a unique season of respiratory illnesses. Flu cases are on the rise earlier than usual. And RSV cases remain extra high after an unprecedented summer surge. Plus COVID-19, that's still a public health emergency. Pediatric hospital beds are filling up as more families turned to doctors for care.
 
Joining me right now from Houston is Dr. Melanie Kitagawa, she is a Pediatric ICU Medical Director at Texas Children's Hospital, the largest pediatric hospital in the nation. Dr. Kitagawa, good to see you.
 
I mean, these numbers are extraordinary. About three quarters of a pediatric hospital beds are in use across the country, well above the average over the past few years. And your state of Texas is among those nearly 80 percent fall, according to data from the Department of Health and Human Services. So what are you seeing in your hospital?
 
DR. MELANIE KITAGAWA, PEDIATRIC ICU MEDICAL DIRECTOR, TEXAS CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL: Yes, you're correct. We are very busy. We are helping take care of the kids in our community here. The virus has is upon us. And RSV with the increase in flu is definitely leading to us being very busy as a system.
 
WHITFIELD: Indeed, it is. I mean, the CDC is saying that -- and that -- I think this number is very striking that most children will catch RSV before they turn the age of two. And that cases are typically mild. But, you know, CNN talked with a family in Virginia who lost one of their premature twin boys to RSV at just three months old. His brother, one of the twins, is still fighting for his life. So help us understand why every second counts, particularly when you talk about the youngest of the spectrum who get RSV.
 
KITAGAWA: Yes, those kids who are very small are tiny infants. Those are the kids who we worry about the most, those are the kids who -- although the virus can be mild for many, have the most significant symptoms. And it's important that these kids are able to get to the care that they need so that we can help support them through their infection, and try to do everything we can as a medical community to get them better. Those small infants, premature babies, kids who have other medical challenges are the highest risk for these viruses.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, and it still is the case, right? There really is no medicine that is going to be part of their treatment in their care even when they're in the hospital. But it's a matter of having a facility that has the kind of equipment that can help them with all that mucus build-up and intubate if you have to a child to make sure they can continue to breathe.
 
KITAGAWA: Yes, exactly. We're here to help the children and support them through their illness. You're correct, we don't have any medication that's going to make RSV goes away. So we have to help them get through the illness and get through their symptoms so that their body can heal itself. And that is really challenging. Imagine those families who are watching their kids fight through these illnesses, it's humbling.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, it's heartbreaking. So the Food and Drug Administration says a commonly used antibiotic, amoxicillin, and this is separate from RSV, but now we're just talking about a treatment for other things. And amoxicillin is very common treatment. So now they are in short supply. How concerned are you about that?
 
KITAGAWA: So far, we have been fortunate in that, that supply that we have currently has -- we've been OK in the hospital. But I think, you know, what we worry about is, you know, what impact is that going to have on the community and the kids around here. And so it's hard to fully understand what that might mean.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. And again, amoxicillin, I mean, we're talking about an antibiotic. It is not in the course of treatment for say RSV, but there are other things that is -- that it treats that is important for our young people with these secondary infections, et cetera.
 <br>[11:40:06]
 
KITAGAWA: Yes, exactly. And I think, you know, that's why we encourage families to really rely on their pediatricians, seek the medical care so that, we, as medical professionals, can help navigate that for our patients and help make sure that they're getting the right treatment so that they get what they need.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Dr. Melanie Kitagawa, thank you so much. And all the best to you and your colleagues as you brace for and you're really in the throes of what is already a very challenging season. Thank you so much.
 
KITAGAWA: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:45:07]
 
WHITFIELD: A stern warning from an Iranian official as protests against the government continue. The head of the country's revolutionary guard told protesters this weekend, quote, "Today is the last day of the riots. Do not come to the streets again." Anti-regime protests have swept the country following the death of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini in police custody for allegedly not following Iran's strict dress code.
 
16-year-old Nika Shahkarami was a protester who went missing and later died. Iranian authorities gave conflicting accounts of her cause of death. CNN track the final minutes of her life to try to find out what really happened.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KATIE POLGLASE, CNN INVESTIGATIVE PRODUCER (voice-over): Nika Shahkarami, the 16-year-old, has become one of the most known faces in Iran. On September 20th, Nika was a high profile figure at the protests and known personality on social media. She stood on bins chanting for the crowds. Official say that within 24 hours, she would be dead.
 
Nika joined a growing list of young women who have lost their lives in recent weeks, as protests have swept Iran, and authorities have waged a violent crackdown in response. The Iranian government has made a series of shifting claims, first saying that her death had, quote, no connection to the protests, but that she was thrown from a roof. And then on Wednesday, a new claim from the judiciary that it was suicide.
 
On the basis of our investigation using over 50 videos from that night, and speaking to those with her that evening, CNN can reveal that some of Nika's final hours was spent at the protests, including evidence that suggests she was chased and detained by security just a few hours before the state says she died.
 
The first videos we found of Nika on the 20th are here at 7:00 p.m. As protest heats up, Nika can be seen right at the front, throwing rocks at a formation of uniformed officers. Easily recognized, she was brave, not even frightened, eyewitnesses said.
 
At this stage in the evening, Nika is here by Laleh Park. Then as more officers arrive, witnesses say Nika starts to move away from them. First along Keshavarz Boulevard, and then on Vesal Shirazi Street, where she's seen making a phone call just before 8:00 p.m.
 
As it gets dark, the police crackdown intensifies, moving into Nika's new location. Evidence of injuries start emerging and protesters are seen being detained apparently by plainclothes officers. One person told CNN they saw security forces hitting women and putting them in police vans.
 
In the midst of this heightened violence, CNN found a video of Nika, still at the center of the protests, it's 8:37 p.m. and the last known video of her.
 
Don't move, don't move, she shouts, as she crouches between cars to hide from authorities. The person filming from the car told CNN that shortly afterwards, Nika was taken by several large bodied security forces and bundled into a van.
 
(on-camera): By this point in the evening, police were everywhere. Videos we've geolocated to the scene show police to the south and also to the north of Nika. It means when she was crouching in traffic, she was completely surrounded.
 
(voice-over): By the next morning, she would be dead, according to this death certificate, first obtained by BBC Persian and verified by CNN, which shows she died from multiple injuries caused by being hit with a hard object and is dated September 21st.
 
But Nika's family would not learn of her death for another 10 days. Meanwhile, both Nika's mother and aunt have said in interviews that credible sources told them that for days during that window, Nika was in state custody. The Iranian authorities released this CCTV footage, claiming Nika died after being thrown from this building, later the same night in an incident they say was unconnected to the protests. They made no claim about who allegedly threw her and CNN cannot verify the person is Nika, nor the day it was filmed.
 
Nika's mother has publicly disputed this footage saying it's not her daughter. And it's hard to square this calm walk with the evidence we have of Nika being chased by police and detained just a few hours earlier. Iranian officials have not responded to CNN's inquiry as to whether she was ever in custody in the hours leading up to her death. What is certain, though, is that Nika was a prominent activist at the center of a police crackdown on the protests that night.
 
Katie Polglase, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: And despite the government's warnings, still unclear whether the protests will indeed resume.
 
All right, this programming note here on CNN, join Stanley Tucci as he explores Liguria, the fabled Italian Riviera.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Speaking Foreign Language)
 <br>[11:50:17]
 
STANLEY TUCCI, "STANLEY TUCCI SEARCHING FOR ITALY" HOST: Well, hi, boys.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hi.
 
TUCCI: Hi.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): I would like you to try some of our oil.
 
TUCCI: All right, let's do it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): First you'll taste the Cru Gaaci. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translation): The glass if quite full.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): You don't have to drink it all but -- 
 
TUCCI: I can't drink that much oil. Nice.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): The scent of this oil is delicate.
 
TUCCI: That's nice. Yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): The scent of this oil is delicate .There's a hint of white apple.
 
TUCCI: Kind of fruit, fruity.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): Fruity. It's light and fruity, sweet, very creamy. TUCCI: It's very creamy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: The all new episode of "Stanley Tucci: Searching for Italy" airs tonight at 9:00 p.m. right here on CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:55:46]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, the countdown is on for our spookiest night or most fun of an evening of the biggest fright, however, this Halloween might be the price of your trick or treat candy. Inflation remains stubbornly high. But soaring prices aren't scaring away shoppers.
 
CNN Business Reporter Nathaniel Meyersohn joining us right now. Nathaniel, this Halloween is already seeing record spending from costumes to candy.
 
NATHANIEL MEYERSOHN, CNN BUSINESS REPORTER: Right. So we're seeing record spending. Americans are expected to spend more than $10.6 billion this Halloween that includes candy, decorations, costumes for the kids, for adults, and then for even for pets. So Spirit Halloween, which is one of the largest Halloween stores. They're opening a record number of stores this year, 1,450 stores.
 
They're really taken advantage of the fact that we see all of these empty storefronts and they can just quickly move in before the holiday set up shop. And then they're also, of course, taking advantage of the fact that Americans want to celebrate the holiday.
 
WHITFIELD: That is so true. And I wish I had a pet right now because I've seen some really cool costumes for dogs. And I wish I can grab them but maybe next year.
 
All right, so let's talk about candy because that's the biggest treat of all in my book. How much more expensive is candy this year?
 
MEYERSOHN: Right. So inflation is hitting all of our lives right now just about every single part. Candy is not exempt from that. Candy prices are expected to be up 14 percent this year. And some of our favorite candies are getting more expensive, Crunch bars up 6 percent, Butterfinger up 7 percent, Starburst up 35 percent, and then Skittles up 42 percent. So maybe stay away from the sweets and head to the chocolates.
 
So companies, these candy makers, they're facing higher costs, and they're passing that off onto shoppers. And then not only are prices getting higher, but the product sizes are getting smaller because of shrink inflation.
 
WHITFIELD: OK, that is the case. Well, you know, if you've got a sweet tooth, no matter what you're still going to, you know, do what it takes to get that little Snickers bar or Skittles, whatever your fancy is. Nathaniel Meyersohn, good to see you. Thanks so much, and happy Halloween.
 
All right, so pretty scary skies on the horizon, just in time for Halloween, frightening moments, in fact. Four people in Jackson County, Mississippi, no joke and really not fun at all, after a tornado touched down yesterday. It was just one of several tornadoes reported in the area. And officials in Baldwin County, Alabama say at least four tornadoes were spotted there.
 
CNN Meteorologist Allison Chinchar joining us right now. This is not the kind of scary stuff that anybody wants to see in the skies not this time of year or ever, Allison.
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: No, that's right. Now the good news is the threat for severe weather has come down. But we do still have a lot of rain out there. And yes, even though you're looking at today, this rain is going to go somewhere for tomorrow. So let's break it down.
 
Today, the main focus is really going to be across the southeast, the Ohio River, Tennessee River Valley. But by tomorrow, we start to see that shift north closer to the Great Lakes into the mid-Atlantic, more of the central Appalachian Mountains. And that's where the rain is unfortunately going to be focused for the trick or treaters. Again, right through this area here.
 
But also the Pacific Northwest, we have another system making its way in there as well. That may also add a few raindrops to the trick or treating. So let's look at that timeline specifically, say, 7:00 p.m. local time on Halloween. You're looking at rain for cities like Cleveland, Louisville, Raleigh, even Washington, D.C. Atlanta has rained in the morning, but we're hoping all of that clears out by about 4:00 or 5:00 in the afternoon so that we've got dry conditions for those trick or treaters.
 
Farther to the west, Chicago looks nice, nice and mild. Same thing for St. Louis and dry. That's the key component there. We are looking at some rain showers across extreme south Texas, say, San Antonio around the Del Rio area. And then out to the west, Seattle and Portland, that's where you're going to have your highest chances of rain during trick or treating hours.
 
But you know what, Fred? Maybe this -- maybe just be a meteorologist for Halloween and then you have the prop of the umbrella all ready to go and you don't have to worry about the rain.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, but your best prop of all, I am digging those earrings. They're little skeletons, as I zero in and focus my eyeballs. I love it.
 
Allison Chinchar, good to see you. Thank you so much. I'm glad that kids will still get a chance to get out their trick or treat. But you know what, even with some downpour, that's not going to stop them. They are ready. They're so ready this year. All right, thank you, Allison. I'm Fredricka Whitfield in Atlanta. See you again at 2:00 Eastern. Meantime, right now coming up on CNN, Dana Bash talks with Republican senator from Florida, Rick Scott and North Carolina's Democratic Senate nominee, Cheri Beasley.