Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: New Body Cam Video Released From North Carolina Mass Shooting; Man Who Fell Overboard On A Cruise Ship Speaks Out; Possible HIV Vaccine Induces Immune Responsible In Early Clinical Trial; Univ. Of Florida Backup QB Arrested For Images Of Child Sexual Exploitation, Suspended From Team Indefinitely; Tampa Police Issue Arrest Warrant For Former NFL Player Antonio Brown After Domestic Incident; Ukrainian Children's Choir Sings "Carol Of The Bells" In NYC; Biden Signs Legislation To Avert Rail Shutdown. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired December 02, 2022 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:13]
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN ANCHOR: Police in Idaho are trying to clear up confusion about the killing of four college students after a series of conflicting statements. Investigators now say there may have been a six person living at that address, but even that is not confirmed. Authorities are still scrambling for clues after weeks with no arrests and no motive.
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR: Listen, the confusion genuinely frustrating for all involved. The four students you may remember were found stabbed to death in a shared off campus home that shocked that small college community, shocked the country. Families, many in the area are growing frustrated with handling the case and frankly, fearful with no suspect at this point.
 
Well, new this morning, police in North Carolina have released chilling new body cam video from a mass shooting in October. This was where a 15-year-old killed five people and injured two others while walking through a neighborhood in the Raleigh area.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. Investigators believe the gunman, who remained hospitalized, killed his older brother first before going on the shooting rampage. CNN's Ryan Young has been following this for us. So, Ryan, what more are you learning now? This was back in October.
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Good morning, guys. I can tell you, we walked through that neighborhood shortly after the shooting, and people were scared and confused about exactly what happened in those minutes when the shooting started. This video gives us some sort of insight into what police were dealing with. And you can hear how calm officers are even though they're taking on rapid fire.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(GUN SHOTS)
 
YOUNG (voice-over): Police releasing dramatic bodycam footage from the October 13th mass shooting in Raleigh, North Carolina. A 15-year-old boy allegedly killed five people, including his older brother and an off-duty police officer. After an hour's long manhunt, K9 officers tracked him down while he was barricaded inside of a barn-like building in the woods, according to the police body cam video.
 
(GUN SHOTS)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Cover. Back further. Behind further.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where is he it?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Right knee.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All right, put the tourniquet on. Tourniquet on, right knee.
 
YOUNG (voice-over): At one point in the video, an officer is struck by gunfire while multiple officers continue to fire back. Other officers are applying a tourniquet to his leg. After firing 23 shots, Raleigh officers established a perimeter around the building before going in and finding the suspect wounded, according to a preliminary police report released in October.
 
Investigators say the suspect had a shotgun and shells nearby him. The suspect has not been charged. However, the Wake County District Attorney has said her office intends charging the 15-year-old as an adult.
 
In a statement obtained by a CNN affiliate WTVD in October, the suspect's parents saying they don't understand why this happened, writing, quote, "There were never any indications or warning signs that their son was capable of doing anything like this."
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
YOUNG: Yes, Bianna, still has so many questions about this case. When you think about even the officer who was killed in the situation, he was going to work, so he didn't even realize the shooting was happening more than likely when he was hit and killed. So many questions about when this person was going to be in court.
 
What we're told is the way things work, he has to be able to stand in court, and then once that happens, he can be charged as an adult. But you got to hope that maybe in that preliminary report that police still haven't all the way shared with us, that there's some information about a motive or something that sparked this. Because right now, there's just so many lack of answers, just leave so many questions that we just kind of baffled about why this had to happen.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, that whole community just waiting for some sort of closure, some more information in this investigation.
 
Ryan Young, thank you. SCIUTTO: All right, this next story, I mean, an incredible story of survival. When we're hearing for the first time from the man rescued by the coast guard after he fell off a cruise ship and somehow managed to survive for hours in the water. This is the video of the 28-year- old James Michael Grimes while he was still in the water, just bobbing there. He spent more than 15 hours treading water after falling overboard.
 
He told ABC News he still does not know how he went over the side.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did you have a few drinks?
 
GRIMES: I had during the day, and I'd actually did, like, an air guitar solo, and there was a competition they were doing, and I'd won it. So I'd won a free drink, so I had that.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But you hadn't had, like -- you weren't like inebriated -- had like a ton of drinks?
 
GRIMES: No, ma'am.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: So James claims he was knocked unconscious in the initial fall off the boat, and when he woke up, he couldn't see the boat anywhere near him. He also said his worst fear is drowning, but that he was determined to survive.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[10:35:05]
 
GRIMES: I wanted to see my family, and I was dead set on making it out of there, you know? I was never accepting that this is it. This is going to be the end of my life.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When the coast guard guys shut up in the water, what did you say to him?
 
GRIMES: Well, the first thing I actually told him was, I don't have any clothes on. Because I didn't. I didn't strip out of everything. He said, that's fine. All right. And I was just like, OK. He told me to hold on to this life vest, when I was just thinking, thank you. You know, you're like a guardian angel coming down for me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: He is lucky to be alive, I'll tell you. Remarkably, he says he's not opposed to going on another cruise, but he will stay 10 feet away from any rails. That's good advice. But then, so happy he's alive.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. These first responders, they mean business.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
GOLODRYGA: He was nervous about not wearing clothes. They're like, listen, sir, we've seen it all. Just come with us. So -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Well, how they found them in the water, too?
 
GOLODRYGA: I know.
 
SCIUTTO: That tiny head bobbing in the water, in the waves, that's remarkable work.
 
GOLODRYGA: I know. You can barely see it when we circled it for our viewers there.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
GOLODRYGA: Incredible.
 
SCIUTTO: Another story we're following today, on the heels of World AIDS Day, there is promising news about an experimental HIV vaccine. We're going to have a look at what the data shows, that's coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:58]
 
SCIUTTO: All right, this could be a sign of hope. An experimental vaccine that researchers are calling, quote, an important step forward against HIV. In early clinical trials, the vaccine induced neutralizing antibodies among a small group of volunteers, suggesting the treatment at least shows promise for eliciting immune responses by the body against HIV.
 
GOLODRYGA: CNN's Medical Correspondent Dr. Tara Narula is here with the details. So, Tara, the medical community over the past few decades has made so many advances in inroads in the fight against HIV. What do you make of this? What do we know thus far about this potential vaccine?
 
DR. TARA NARULA, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, we know that it's exciting science, but it's very preliminary. This was a Phase 1 study, which is kind of the earliest study that we do, that looks really at safety and is there an immune response.
 
And so what researchers did was took 46 healthy adult volunteers and divided them up. About 38 of them -- sorry, about 18 in one group, 18 in another group got the vaccine. Twelve of them did not. And each of the groups that got the vaccine, one got a low dose of the vaccine, one got a higher dose. They then got boosted about eight weeks after that, and they looked to see what the immune response was.
 
And in fact, in 97 percent, they did see an immune response. And that was what we call broad neutralizing antibody precursors. Now, the reason this is important is because these are the types of antibodies, almost like super antibodies, that we need to fight a virus like HIV, which has a lot of different global variants. So we think this research will help going forward not just with HIV, but with some other viruses that we've had trouble developing a vaccine for.
 
As far as side effects, there really were no adverse serious effects. The most common things, as you would expect was injection at the site where they got the needle, as well as some malaise fatigue. So, you know, this is so important.
 
As you mentioned, 38 million globally have HIV AIDS. Each year, 1 million new HIV infections will be detected. So, you know, this is really exciting research, but very, very early at this point. This is one of about 20 trials worldwide that's going on currently for HIV vaccines.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. So -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Dr. Narula, how would a vaccine be used? We have highly successful treatments at this point, but how would a vaccine factor into the way the world works to prevent HIV?
 
NARULA: Right, and that's so important. Currently, the only option that we have for people is PrEp, which is essentially a daily pill or very frequent painful injections. So to be able to offer someone a vaccine that was preventative would go a long way for individuals who may be at risk or at higher risk.
 
GOLODRYGA: And this is still a virus that the world continues to fight. As we mentioned, there have been some inroads made and people can live longer. Yesterday was World AIDS Day.
 
NARULA: Yes.
 
GOLODRYGA: And there you saw President Biden standing next to President Macron and acknowledged the continued effort in this fight against HIV and AIDS to eradicate it.
 
NARULA: Exactly.
 
GOLODRYGA: Dr. Narula, great to have you on. Thank you.
 
NARULA: Thank you.
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, in 24 hours, the U.S. Men's team will be in a battle to stay in the World Cup with the Netherlands and they could have a key player back in the mix. Fingers crossed. We need Pulisic. We'll have the story up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:48:47]
 
GOLODRYGA: This morning, University of Florida Quarterback Jalen Kitna is out of jail on bond as he faces charges of child exploitation and possession of child pornography. Kitna was arrested this week after a tip that someone on the instant messaging platform Discord distributed an image of child sexual abuse material. Detectives then traced two images shared on the platform back to a home and identified the probable Discord account holder as Kitna. SCIUTTO: The University of Florida's University Athletic Association said in a statement, quote, "These are extremely serious charges and the University of Florida and the UAA have zero tolerance for such behavior. Jalen has been suspended indefinitely from the football program."
 
The freshman, redshirt freshman appeared in four games this season is the son of the retired NFL Quarterback Jon Kitna.
 
Also in Florida in Tampa, police have issued an arrest warrant for former NFL Starter Antonio Brown after a domestic battery incident with a woman. Police say the former Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver was allegedly involved in a verbal altercation with the victim at a home in South Tampa on Monday afternoon.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, police say the argument then turned physical after Brown allegedly threw a shoe at the victim. Brown also allegedly attempted to evict the victim. According to a CNN affiliate, Tampa police spent at least an hour yesterday trying to get Brown to come out of the house.
 <br>[10:50:14]
 
Well to more uplifting news, this time tomorrow -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
GOLODRYGA: -- USA soccer will be back on the pitch. And for the second straight game, it's win or go home.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, I'm going to be watching. Facing off against the American squad eight ranked in the world Netherlands. What's at stake? Well, you got to win. It's spot in the quarter finals for the winner. That's around the U.S. Team has not reached at the World Cup in some 20 years.
 
CNN's Amanda Davies in Qatar following all the buildup to tomorrow's big match.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Has there ever been more talks about pelvic contusion? It's the kind of injury that will be used in pop quizzes for years to come and it's one that has us hanging on it every update.
 
Thursday's U.S. Men's National Team practice session took place behind closed doors. So we didn't get to see for ourselves what was going on as Christian Pulisic went out on the training field. But when addressing the media, he told us he was doing everything in his power to be there and ready to play against the Netherlands.
 
And the good news has kept on coming on Friday. Coach Gregg Berhalter updating us with the latest, saying things are looking pretty good.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GREGG BERHALTER, HEAD COACH, U.S. MEN'S NATIONAL SOCCER TEAM: We're going to see him on the training field today. What I think is it looks pretty good, so -- but we'll have to see him today on the pitch to get confirmation of that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVIES: Although Pulisic has been keen to talk about the strengths of the team around him, there's no doubt it is a side who are better with him than without. He was named player of the match in two of their three games so far and we saw the struggle without him in the second half against Iran after he'd been taken to hospital.
 
The USA haven't beaten a team from Europe at the World Cup since 2002, 20 years. And as the team's most expensive footballing export to the continent, the value of that experience should not be underestimated.
 
Amanda Davies, CNN, Doha, Qatar.
 
SCIUTTO: Amanda Davies, thanks so much. Let's go Team USA.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes. We should just note, Jim, we were saying this public now, no one call us between the hours of 10:00 a. m. -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, exactly.
 
GOLODRYGA: -- and noon tomorrow. Our phones will be on silent.
 
SCIUTTO: We'll be watching. This is a powerful moment. More than 50 young singers from a Ukrainian children's choir, they're in New York this week. And people at Grand Central station got quite a treat. The pleasure of hearing them sing a Christmas classic.
 
(SINGING)
 
GOLODRYGA: That is, of course, Carol of the Bells, which you may not have known. I wasn't known.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
GOLODRYGA: I didn't know. It was written by a Ukrainian composer in 1914. Now, this Sunday, the choir will perform at Carnegie Hall as part of a concert to raise money for their war-torn homeland. The proceeds will go to United 24, the main charitable organization of the Ukrainian government.
 
SCIUTTO: Love it. Love it.
 
(SINGING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SCIUTTO: To the White House now, in the Roosevelt Room, where the President about to sign into law legislation preventing a national rail strike. Let's listen in.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: -- in averting what could have been a real disaster and ended up with a good product. But we still have more work to do, in my view, in terms of ultimately getting paid sick leave not just for rail workers but for every worker in America. That is a goal I had in the beginning, and I'm coming back at it.
 
So -- but good morning. The bill I'm about to sign ends a difficult rail dispute and helps our nation avoid what, without a doubt, would have been an economic catastrophe at a very bad time in the calendar.
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
Our nation's rail system is literally the backbone of our supply chain, as you all well know. And so much of what we rely on is delivered on our rail, from clean water to food and gas and every other good. A rail shutdown would have devastated our economy. Without freight rail, many of the U.S. industries would literally shut down.
 
In the event of a shutdown, my economic advisers report that as many as 765,000 Americans, many of them union members themselves, would have been put out of work for the first time and -- excuse me, within the first two weeks of this -- of the strike alone.
 
Communities could have lost access to chemicals necessary to ensure clean drinking water. Farms and ranches across the country would have been unable to feed their livestock. And thanks to the bill Congress passed and what I'm about to sign, we've spared the country that catastrophe. At the same time, we ensured workers are going to get a historic 24 percent wage increase over the next five years, improved working conditions, and peace of mind around their healthcare.
 
And, look, I know this bill doesn't have paid sick leave, but these rail workers and, frankly, every worker in America deserves. But that fight isn't over. I didn't commit we were going to stop just because of -- we couldn't get it in this bill, that we were going to stop fighting for it. I've supported paid sick leave for a long time, and I'm going to continue that fight until we succeed.
 
And I want to thank Congress, Democrats and Republicans, for acting so quickly. I know this was a tough vote for members of both parties. It was a tough for me. But it was the right thing to do at the moment to save jobs, to protect millions of working families from harm and disruption, and to keep supply chains stable around the holidays, and to continue the progress we've made and we're -- continue to see on the economy.
 
For months, you couldn't look anywhere without seeing headlines screaming "Gas prices at the pump are up." But, look, folks, gas prices are down and you barely hear anything about it right now. And they're continuing to go down.
 
And there's a lot more that's going to happen. And they're down more than $1.50 a gallon since the summer, and they continue to fall. And our economy continues to grow. The economic report -- the GDP is up even more than it was previously thought. We continue to create jobs -- lots of jobs.
 
And today, we've learned that the economy added 263,000 jobs in November. And we've now created 10.5 million jobs since I took office, more than any administration in history at this point in a presidency. And 750,000 of them are domestic manufacturing jobs, made in America.
 
Unemployment rate remains near an all-time, 50-year low, 3.7 percent. And wages for working families -- I want to say this again -- wages for working families, in fact, over the last couple of months, have gone up, up. These wage increases are larger than the increase in inflation during that same period of time.
 
And so, we're in a position now where we -- things are moving. They're moving in the right direction.
 
As we go into the holiday season, here's what this all means. The Americans are working, the economy is growing, wages are rising faster than inflation, and we've avoided a catastrophic rail strike. It means our plan to build the economy from the bottom up and the middle out -- you're tired of hearing me say that, but it's working. The wealthy are still doing very well while the middle class and the poor are having a shot.
 
I want to thank Congress once again for being partners today, for averting this disaster and keeping our economy on a stable footing during the holiday season. I want to thank you all. And now I'm going to reach over here and sign this bill and make it official.
 
This is the House Joint Resolution 100. OK.
 
And, by the way, I really can't emphasize enough how much I appreciate the team behind me working with business and labor to get this done to avoid this. But otherwise, it's a really good bill lacking only one thing, and we're going to get that one thing done before it's all over.
 
But anyway, thank you, thank you, thank you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, why aren't you going to Georgia to help Senator Warnock?
 
BIDEN: I'm going to Georgia today to help Senator Warnock -- not to Georgia; we're going to help Senator Warnock because I'm doing a major fundraiser up in Boston today for the -- our next and continued Senate candidate and senator.
 
Thank you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, how soon should rail workers expect sick days?
 
BIDEN: As soon as I can convince our Republicans to see the light.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thanks very much, everyone. Thank you.