Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia Intends to Cripple Ukraine's Energy Supply; Russia Wants to Suspend Grain Shipments; South Korea Notes its Flaws in Policing; Bolsonaro Supporters Not Giving Up; Benjamin Netanyahu Eager to Have His Power Back. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired November 01, 2022 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead here on CNN Newsroom, Russian missiles bombard Ukraine's capital, leaving much of the city without electricity and water. We are live in Kyiv with the latest. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOON HEE-KEUN, COMMISSIONER GENERAL, KOREAN NATIONAL POLICE AGENCY (through translator):  We found that there were lots of 112 calls before the accident about the seriousness of the place. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  South Korean authorities say that their response to emergency calls was inadequate as families mourn the victims of Saturday's crowd crush. 
 
Protesters blocking roads in Brazil in support of far-right President Jair Bolsonaro who has not yet publicly acknowledged his defeat in the election runoff. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Lice from CNN center, this is CNN Newsroom with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH:  Good to have you with us. 
 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says work is underway to repair critical infrastructure across the country after Russia's latest barrage of missiles took aim at Ukraine's energy and water supply. In Kyiv, a city with a pre-war population of some three million people, the mayor says 80 percent of residents were left without water on Monday. And while power is gradually being restored, one Ukrainian energy company warns it's running out of equipment to make repairs. 
 
Ukraine's military says it was able to shoot down 45 of the 55 cruise missiles fired by Russia on Monday. But Russian President Vladimir Putin says that those strikes are not all his military can do. 
 
CNN's Salma Abdelaziz is following developments for us. She joins us live from Kyiv. Good to see you, Salma. 
 
So, despite Ukraine apparently intercepting most of the Russian missiles, there was extensive damage done to power and water supply. What is the latest on this? 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN REPORTER:  Absolutely. More than 40 cruise missiles shot towards Ukraine yesterday. Ten different regions targeted, 18 different facilities hit. A majority of them energy related. Electricity related. And I think what yesterday strikes revealed, Rosemary, is just how precarious, how damage, how weak the infrastructure of the country has really come after weeks of sustained attacks. 
 
President Zelenskyy says the message here from Russia is clear. They want to inflict civilian suffering. They want to ramp up the cost of this war. And he says it's not going to work. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): Russian terrorists do not have such missiles that can hit the Ukrainian desire to live, live in a civilized manner, and take care of each other. And if someone over there in the Kremlin listen to their crazy propagandists and decide that the darkness of Ukraine would help put pressure on the Ukrainians, then let them not be surprised of their losses when they see how Ukrainians conduct negotiations in the dark. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDELAZIZ:  Now we've spoken over and over again about President Zelenskyy appealing for weapons, appealing for help on the frontlines. Now Ukrainians are appealing for help in civilian areas. They're asking for power equipment, for generators from their international partners and allies. 
 
Mayors and local officials are telling families they have to prepare for a tough winter. They are encouraging people to store water at home, they're putting in time to power cuts to try to conserve energy. They're running trains at a delayed time. Anything they can do really to conserve electricity. 
 
And the concern here is, Rosemary, is that these attacks are becoming all but inevitable. This is a clear strategy from Moscow, target civilian infrastructure, inflict greater pain across the country. Even far, from the front lines. Bringing the battle into people's homes. 
 
And the concern is of course that as we head into the winter months, that gets worse and worse. That is why you hear Ukrainians and their allies accusing Russia of weaponizing war, of weaponizing the basics of inflicting intentionally civilian suffering across Ukraine. Rosemary? 
 
CHURCH:  All right, Salma Abdelaziz with that live report, many thanks. 
 
The European Union is condemning Russia's decision to suspend its participation in a U.N. brokered grain export deal. Russia made the move after blaming Ukraine for an attack in Crimea. Russia claims movement on the Black Sea grain corridor is now suspended and warns using it would be risky. 
 <br>[03:05:06]
 
Still, about a dozen ships could be seen using it on Monday. The E.U. is calling on Russia to reverse its decision over fears it will affect the global food crisis. 
 
So, let's get more now from Clare Sebastian tracking developments for us from London. She joins us live. Good to see you again, Clare. 
 
So, the E.U. condemns Russia's decision to suspend its participation in the Black Sea grain initiative. But Ukraine is sending grain ships to sea anyway. So, what is the latest on this? And of course, what are the risks involved for those ships? 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, a major risk, Rosemary. Because of course this was a delicate balance this deal which involved creating a safe maritime corridor in the middle of a war zone to try to get the ships through safely. Delicately brokered by the U.N. and Turkey. Along of course with Russia and Ukraine. 
 
Russia now saying it is no longer providing the security guarantees under this deal. Also risky for ships because at least one insurance broker ASKET under Lloyds of London has said that it will pause any new insurance writing for ships. Obviously, it's honoring existing contracts that are in place. But that really changes the calculus for shipping companies wanting to try to help get grain out of Ukraine's Black Sea ports. 
 
Meanwhile, Russia continuing to claim that it had to pull out of the deal because it says Ukraine violated that maritime corridor with that drone attack on Crimea over the weekend. Have a listen to what President Putin had to say about that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  Those drones, both under sea and air drones have been partly in the corridor through which the grain from the Ukraine is exported. They created risks for our ships. We should provide security for the grain export as several ships who are taking care of it. But we've made a commitment to provide security. But pardon me for the expression, Ukraine hits those ships. We will be the ones to blame. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN:  So, sort of a degree of attempted deniability there. Saying we will be to blame if anything happens here. Which of course is ominous given Russia's track record. But it should be noted, though, Rosemary, that even before this incident in Crimea, Russia had been complaining about the grain deal saying that the grain was only going to develop countries, to E.U. countries. Not enough is going to developing countries. 
 
It was also complaining that one of the conditions that it's set for this deal which is that sanctions should be ease so that it can export more of its own food and fertilizer. That was not being met. We know that the U.N. was trying to work with Russia on that. So, there were problems even before this. But now of course they're saying suspending but not ending their participation. Trying to maintain clearly a degree of leverage here.
 
CHURCH:  All right. Clare Sebastian with that live report. Many thanks. 
 
We are joined now by Arif Husain in Rome. He is the chief economist of the World Food Programme. Thank you, sir, for being with us. 
 
ARIF HUSAIN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME:  Thank you for having me, Rosemary. Thank you.
 
CHURCH:  How concerned are you about Russia pulling out of the grain deal for now at least and the impact that will likely have on grain supplies to nation's most in need. 
 
HUSAIN:  Yes. This is -- this is very troubling, you know, because it's not about one or two countries. It is about the world. As you know there are, I mean, even before this, I mean, the number of people in food crises, that right now stands at about 345 million people. That's more than the population of the entire United States. 
 
And of these 345 million, there about 50 million people who we call are in hunger emergencies. Meaning one step away from famine. And there are in fact about a million people in famine-like conditions. And all of this happening, you know, not in one or two countries, but in dozens of countries. 
 
So, at this time, if this deal gets suspended, or you know, there is uncertainty. That raises prices. And that raises prices and food commodities, not only in rich countries, but also into poor countries. So, what we want is that not only we stop talking about the suspension, but in fact the continuation of this deal. 
 
Because according to the original agreement, this is going to expire the first 120 days are going to expire on November 19th which is not that far away. So, what we want is that this deal can continues until we see a political situation to this war. And markets and create, comes back to normal as it should be. 
 
CHURCH:  Right. We know of course that Turkey, Germany, and other nations are urging Russia to rejoin the U.N. brokered grain shipment deal, how much hope do you have that they can't convince Russians to do that sooner rather than later? 
 <br>[03:10:09]
 
Because we know that Russia is saying, well, the door is not closed on this. They are using it as leverage. But in the meantime, there's a food crisis in the world. 
 
HUSAIN:  Exactly. I mean, you know, like I said, you know, it's not about Russia, it's not about only Ukraine. It is really and truly about the world. And ahead of time when the world is already reeling from the after effects of COVID, you have with climatic shocks, we are dealing with conflicts, we are dealing with food, high food prices, high fertilizer prices. High energy prices. Inflation at levels not seen in decades. 
 
I mean, you know, so this is not happening and if this was the only problem it would be bad enough. But thing happening at a time that the world is in turmoil is terrible. 
 
Let me just say one other thing that, you know, with all of the issues and problems right now, what we are dealing with as an affordability crisis. What that means is that food is there. But it may be it's not at the right place, maybe it's not be at the right cost or right price, but it is there. 
 
But the problem is that if we don't sort out the fertilizer issue, which also comes from, or short come from this corridor and from Russia, and from other countries. Today is affordability crisis will turn in tomorrow's availability crisis, meaning there would not be enough food. Imagine what that would do to the prices. And in this environment. So this is -- this is not only about today, it is also about tomorrow. And you know, growing food takes time. 
 
CHURCH:  So, certainly does. 
 
HUSAIN:  So, this is very serious business.
 
CHURCH:  So, what happens then if Russia continues to suspend its participation in the Black Sea initiative, what other options are available to get that grain safely out of Ukraine to those countries most in need? Are there other viable routes apart from by sea? 
 
HUSAIN:  Well, it's going to be tough. And it's not only about moving it, it is about moving it at what cost. Right? So, you can move it but if it at a cost which, you know, the vast majority of people cannot afford. Imagine that, you know, literally millions upon millions of people they spend upwards of 50 to 60 percent of their income owned by food. 
 
So, when the prices of food go up, there's not that much upset. What are they supposed to do? Take their children out of school? Not take them to health clinics. Eat inferior quality foods. Skip meals. All of this is happening as we see right now. And then you get to a point where you start to see riots, you start to see destabilization. You start to see migration out of destitution.
 
And that doesn't only hurt those people, it hurts the entire world. And then we spent thousands -- you know, thousand times more sorting those problems out. And this is not just me saying, we have seen this in so many places so many times. And people need to realize this is why it is so necessary that we sort this out and sort this out now. 
 
CHURCH:  Arif Husain, thank you so much for joining us. We appreciate it. 
 
HUSAIN:  Thank you for having me. 
 
CHURCH:  Three days after the deadly crowd crush in Seoul, South Korea's president is calling for new safety measures to prevent further disaster. It comes as the nation's police chief is acknowledging that the response from authorities ahead of Saturday's surge was, quote, "inadequate." 
 
At least 156 people have died from the tragedy. For days now mourners have been paying respects laying flowers and lighting candles at makeshift memorials for the victims. 
 
And CNN's Ivan Watson is at one of those memorials. He joins us now. Ivan, so many families and friends coming to terms with the loss of their loved ones. And many asking how this tragedy was allowed to happen. What more are you learning? 
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, I mean, it's still this horrific process of trying to come to grips with the sudden loss of perhaps your son or daughter or sibling. With the death toll growing today to 156 dead as a result of what should have been a pretty festive Saturday night when people were gathering for head bars and clubs in this nightlife district to celebrate Halloween and in costumes. 
 
And instead, in addition to scenes like this where people have been paying their respects, where you see people weeping and praying.
 <br>[03:14:54]
 
You also have this very painful process underway in a gymnasium here in Seoul where the lost articles of clothing, the belongings of the many people who were caught in this deadly crowd surge have been a raid on the floor. 
 
And can you imagine this, parents having to come in and look at pairs of shoes or individual shoes or shirts or jackets or hats or parts of Halloween costumes to try to identify something that might have belonged to their child or children. 
 
And remember that most of the dead were young people in their 20s, and some high school students. Five high school students and even a middle school student. 
 
Now the authorities, the authorities have come out and acknowledge that there were inadequacies to the response. For instance, their estimates that there may have been 100,000 party goers gathered in the streets. And there were only about 136 police officers who were assigned to be responsible for this party scene. And was charged with look over things like illegal narcotics or trying to stop sexual assault. 
 
Take a listen to what the head of the South Korea's police has had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HEE-KEUN (through translator):  The calls were about emergencies, having the danger and urgency of the situation that a large crowd had gathered before the accident occurred. However, we think the police response to the 112 calls was inadequate. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WATSON:  And the prime minister has echoed this, saying that there was a, quote, "lack of institutional knowledge and consideration for crowd management." But what a heavy price to have to pay to learn this terrible lesson. Rosemary? 
 
CHURCH:  It is, it is horrifying, heartbreaking, and shocking. Ivan Watson, thank you for that live report. 
 
And still ahead, Brazil on edge. supporters of Jair Bolsonaro protest in the streets after he lost his reelection bid. CNN is on the scene. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Welcome back, everyone. Well, more than 24 hours after Brazil's president lost his reelection bid. And Jair Bolsonaro remain silent. He has yet to publicly acknowledge the results with the only words so far coming from his eldest son, telling supporters not to give up on our Brazil. His words there. 
 
But public concession or not the results are out of Mr. Bolsonaro's hands. Brazil's supreme electoral court declared former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva is the winner and president elect. The leftist Lula won just over 50 percent of the vote in Sunday's runoff. He received more than 60 million votes. The most in Brazilian history. 
 <br>[03:20:04]
 
But despite the huge turnout, he won by a razor-thin margin. Mr. Bolsonaro received about 49 percent of the vote. Brazil's Supreme Court has ordered all public roads and highways to be cleared of protesting Bolsonaro supporters. Soon after the president lost reelection, his supporters set up hundreds of roadblocks across the country, protesting the election results. 
 
CNN's Paula Newton is on the scene at one protest in Sao Paulo. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The results of this election in Brazil maybe in but the protesters here they're not having any of it. All over Brazil there have been these kinds of protests going on roads and highways from one end of the country to the other. 
 
We are in Sao Paulo. This is a major highway leading into the downtown area and through to the airport. Have a look here. We have protesters that are encroaching on a major highway. They are looking for support and they are getting it here as well. The issue for them is they are saying it doesn't matter if Bolsonaro concedes. They are saying they will stay out here as long as necessary. Creating chaos for the country because as far as they are concerned Bolsonaro won. Take a listen. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  We have a president that won at the ballot box and the front of the ballot box is they put the other candidate ahead. And we are against that.
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  Even if Bolsonaro accepts, the people will not accept it because the power comes from the people. The people were the ones who put Bolsonaro there and we are who would remove him as well. 
 
NEWTON:  The division now we heard throughout this campaign is now being vented on the streets. If you look here, they will at times pull into traffic, continue to block traffic and then come back to the barriers. Police are here and they're trying to be here in force but what they are saying is that they want to try to de-escalate the situation. 
 
And we're hearing this from authorities right across the country. They are negotiating a way to keep them safe. To let them protest but also not to come in in a forceful way as they do not want to motivate people to escalate this protest further and continue to block more roads. 
 
This will be a tense situation though in days to come, especially as they are saying it does not matter what Bolsonaro says at this point or the international community, they are determined. They will be out here having these protests as long as it takes. 
 
Paula Newton, CNN, Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Meanwhile, Brazil's president-elect is wasting no time getting to work. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva met with Argentina's president and fellow leftist on Monday. Lula as he is commonly known also spoke with U.S. President Joe Biden, as well as the French president and Spanish prime minister. 
 
When he is sworn into office on January 1st, Lula will face a deeply fractured nation. And urgent environmental issues, including deforestation in the Amazon. South America's largest economy has also seen growing inequality, nearly 10 million people fell into poverty during the COVID pandemic. And inflation is above 6 percent. President-elect Lula says tackling food insecurity will be his most essential goal once he takes office. 
 
Israelis are heading to the polls to elect new leadership for the fifth time since 2019. Members of Israel's parliament, the Knesset are not directly elected, instead, voters cast their vote for a political party. Seats are then assigned in proportion to each party share of the vote. The Israeli president then ask one party leader to try to form a government based on who looks most likely to succeed. And voters must decide if they want Israel's longest serving prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu who is on trial for corruption back in power. 
 
Well, polls show that the right-wing leader's party is poised to win the most seats. But his block may short of a majority. 
 
CNN's Hadas Gold has details on this attempted come back.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The Bibi show is back complete with a Bibi mobius incased in bulletproof glass aiming to once again become the main attraction.
 
UNKNOWN (on screen text):  Welcome to the next prime minister of Israel, Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu.
 
GOLD:  Polls show Benjamin Netanyahu does not yet have a clear path towards the majority. So, the former prime minister is trying to pull every possible vote out of his base. 
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Don't be despondent. Be turbo-charged.
 <br>[03:25:00]
 
UNKNOWN:  Bibi is king of Israel. Bibi is king of Israel.
 
GOLD:  And just like the previous four elections in just over three years, for most Israeli voters, the question at the ballot box will be whether they want him Netanyahu or not. 
 
ANSHEL PFEFFER, AUTHOR, BIBI: THE TURBULENT LIFE &amp; TIMES OF BENJAMIN NETANYAHU:  We are not talking about any other policy issue really beyond Netanyahu and what Netanyahu will do on the day of the election.
 
GOLD:  Netanyahu's ongoing corruption trial where he faces charges including bribery, fraud, and breach of trust, charges Netanyahu denies will be his first priority analysts say. 
 
YOHANAN PLESSNER, PRESIDENT, ISRAEL DEMOCRACY INSTITUTE:  By perhaps firing the attorney general, those kinds of maneuvers that will allow him to free himself from the legal process that he is facing. And to deliver the goods to his political allies. 
 
GOLD:  Those political allies will likely include the far-right ring of Israeli politics. People like Itamar Ben-Gvir, an extremist who has been convicted for supporting terrorism and inciting racism. Now expected to help garner at least 12 seats for Netanyahu's block. He was once an outcast of Israeli politics, known for his art and settlers and enflaming Israeli Palestinian tensions. 
 
Just last year, Netanyahu said Ben-Gvir wasn't fit to serve in the cabinet. But now desperate for his votes, Ben-Gvir certainly could get a ministerial position, Netanyahu said this month. 
 
PFEFFER:  And there is the question is what is the price the far-right is going to extricate from him. Will it be perhaps a canceling the disengagement law from 2015? Meaning that perhaps some settlements in the West Bank which were in the past abandoned by Israel will be built, re-occupied. And perhaps further steps towards some type of annexation in the West Bank. 
 
GOLD:  But at least one former advisor says Netanyahu won't make any extreme moves because the alignment with Ben-Gvir won't last. 
 
MOSHE KLUGHAFT, FORMER NETANYAHU STRATEGIST AND INTERNATIONAL POLITICAL ADVISOR:  Netanyahu's strategy is work for the short term, and then for another short term, and another short term and not for the long term. 
 
GOLD:  Sixty-one seats are needed to form a government and if he wins, Netanyahu has denied that he'll try to quash his trial or that the extremists will have power. 
 
NETANYAHU:  I wouldn't do anything that affects me, I think my trial is unraveling as it is. I've had such partners in the past, they did not change in iota of my policies. 
 
GOLD:  But before he can decline such policy ideas, he will have to claw his way back to power one parliamentary seat at a time. 
 
Hadas Gold, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Joining us now from Tel Aviv is political analyst Dahlia Scheindlin. She is a fellow at the Century Foundation who has consulted on Israeli political campaigns. Thank you so much for being with us. 
 
DAHLIA SCHEINDLIN, FELLOW, CENTURY FOUNDATION:  Thank you for having me. 
 
CHURCH:  So, voting for Israel's fifth election is less than four years is now underway. And we could very well see the return of Benjamin Netanyahu despite his corruption charges. How likely is a Netanyahu comeback do you think? And if he's able to pull that off, what would his coalition government look like if he has to recharge inevitably to the far-right? 
 
SCHEINDLIN:  I think of all the various scenarios, it is certainly one of the more likely scenarios that we have in place right now. And that's because Netanyahu has basically four parties, including his own and three others who are very loyal to him and have already agreed that they would go into a coalition with him. 
 
We don't know if we can't completely trust them. Anything can happen after the elections. But he still has the best possibility to reach what Israelis now consider the magic number of a bear majority of 61 parliamentary seats out of 120. The average of all of his parties in the polls over the last campaign cycle has been around 59, creeping up over the 60-seat mark out of 120 seats. 
 
If that trend continues, it's not impossible that he would get 61 or even more. That would be a surprise. It would go beyond what we've seen in the polls but he does have that block. The problem is that the parties who are running against him, who want to form a coalition that he does not lead, they are not sufficiently united. 
 
So, at present, the blocks appear to be even. Those other parties representing, many of them representing the outgoing government have about 60 seats themselves. But they are not sufficiently united. That's one of the reasons the government fell apart. 
 
So, it is certainly a possible scenario. He would be going in the religious Zionist Party that you mentioned in your report which is very extremist, nationalist supremacist theocratic party. And to ultra-orthodox parties who often sit in Israel's coalition. So that's what the government would look like. 
 
CHURCH:  So, let's look at that alternative. Because while Netanyahu works on his comeback, acting Prime Minister Yair Lapid is doing all that he can to keep Netanyahu out of power. Do you think it's possible Lapid could do that and recreate the surprise he pulled after the last election. 
 <br>[03:29:59]
 
SCHEINDLIN:  It's a very uphill battle, again, because the number of seats they have at 60, or, if they're lucky, 61 includes parties that, you know, they either don't want to go in or won't be invited in. And those are primarily the two parties if they cross the threshold representing mostly Palestinian Arab citizens of Israel.
 
And there was a great controversy over the United Arabist joining the previous government. The other party called Hadash-Ta'al, probably nobody would invite them in. They have been taking a very hard line against joining a government, and so it's -- he wouldn't have an easy path to building a coalition. He would have to pull off some very significant and masterful negotiations in order to prize somebody away from the block of party is currently supporting Netanyahu or even individual members of one of the parties. 
 
Likud is certainly the immediate option if there are people who are willing to defect in order to join. Yet Yair lead -- yet Yair Lapid led block. The other option is that the other party in that block party of the current defense minister, outgoing defense Minister Benny Gantz, the party is called National Unity. 
 
They are claiming that even though they're only polling at around 12 to 13 seats that they would have a better chance of breaking the Netanyahu block and pulling one of the parties over, and that maybe they could form the coalition. Of course, you don't have to be the biggest party in Israel, as we know from the outgoing government.
 
And so, all of those scenarios are on the table. There are many permutations of each scenario, and there's a great deal of uncertainty. In terms of the issues of the campaign, it's complicated because of
 
 course, Israelis are worried about cost of living, dealing with the price hikes like everybody else in the world, but they don't really distinguish between the parties based on economic themes. It's much more about, in Israel it's much more in terms of issues. It's about the Israeli Palestinian conflict and security. 
 
And we have seen serious escalations over the last number of months, that's very top of mind, including attacks and ongoing raids of Israelis and Palestinian cities and attacks on Israelis. So, all of that certainly, generally helps the right wing, pushes people to vote for more right-wing parties. 
 
But I really think that ultimately at this point, fifth election in less than four years, most people are choosing based on which block. The Netanyahu supporting block, or those who are opposed to Netanyahu. They see the same issues, but they just believe whichever side they support will resolve them better. 
 
CHURCH:  All right, we'll see what happens. Dahlia Scheindlin, thank you so much for joining us. I appreciate it. 
 
SCHEINDLIN:  Pleasure.
 
CHURCH:  And be sure to watch our live coverage of the Israel election results as the polls close later today, 4 p.m. in New York, 8 p.m. in London, and 10 p.m. in Tel Aviv right here on CNN. 
 
In just one week, millions of Americans will head to the polls to decide which party controls Congress. All 435 seats in the House are up for grabs while in the Senate 35 are being contested. Some of the closest races are taking place in states like Georgia, Pennsylvania, Arizona, and Nevada.
 
So far, more than 21 million ballots have been cast in early voting. That's one of the highest turnouts in recent memory, and in some states it's already outpacing record levels from 2018. 
 
Well, the man accused of breaking into U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's California home and attacking her husband now faces a long list of state and federal charges, including attempted murder and attempted kidnapping.
 
San Francisco's district attorney says the vicious assault was politically motivated. 
 
CNN's Josh Campbell reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST:  Paul Pelosi still in intensive care following surgery after a violent attack at his home Friday that left him with a skull fracture and serious injuries to his right arm and his hands. 
 
The suspect in the attack, 42-year-old David DePape, now charged with federal crimes, assault and attempted kidnapping after he allegedly broke into the Pelosi San Francisco home through a back door, went to the bedroom and confronted Pelosi shouting, where's Nancy according to law.
 
According to the federal criminal complaint, DePape stated he was going to hold Nancy Pelosi hostage and talk to her. If she were to tell DePape the truth, he would let her go, and if she lied, he was going to break her kneecaps and he said he knew she would not tell the truth. 
 
DePape also later explained that by breaking the speaker's kneecaps, she would then have to be wheeled into Congress, which would show other members of Congress there were consequences to their actions.
 
DePape also attempted to tie Paul Pelosi up before the assault. San Francisco police chief William Scott discredited conspiracy theories the two knew each other before the break end. 
 
WILLIAM SCOTT, CHIEF, SAN FRANCISCO POLICE DEPARTMENT:  There is absolutely no evidence that Mr. Pelosi knew this man. As a matter of fact, the evidence indicates the exact opposite. 
 <br>[03:34:58]
 
CAMPBELL:  The two struggled over a hammer according to law enforcement, and when police arrived, DePape pulled the hammer away from Pelosi, then violently attacked him before police were able to tackle and disarm him.
 
DePape was arrested at the scene. He brought the hammer used in the attack and was carrying duct tape and zip ties according to law enforcement and sources familiar with the investigation. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, along with her security detail was in Washington at the time. She returned to San Francisco Friday and has been visiting her husband at the hospital. 
 
The attack at around 2.30 a.m. early Friday morning at the Pelosi residence in San Francisco occurred just as police arrived in response to a 911 call placed by Paul Pelosi.
 
SCOTT:  There was a 911 call made and that's how we got there and thank goodness that there was a 911 call made.
 
CAMPBELL:  Radio traffic picked up the call for assistance at the Pelosi residence. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Special call, special call, medic 66. location (muted)
 
CAMPBELL:  DePape still hospitalized is expected to be arraigned Tuesday.
 
Now we've been reporting on this suspect's social media footprint, how it's littered with far-right conspiracy theories regarding the 2020 election, regarding COVID vaccines, regarding the January 6th insurrection. We're also learning new details about the alleged motivation here. According to the FBI criminal complaint in this case, the suspect
 
 allegedly told law enforcement that he wanted to break House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's so that she could be wheeled into Congress, quote, "which would show other members of Congress there were consequences to their actions." Truly, truly disturbing allegations. 
 
Josh Campbell, CNN, San Francisco. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Just ahead on CNN.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  I could hardly see the water. I could just see people falling off the bridge. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  The nightmare continues for those who survived a deadly bridge collapse in India. We'll have the latest on the investigation into who officials are holding accountable.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Welcome back, everyone. Iran will hold public trials for around a thousand people charged with taking part in anti-government protests. This according to state media, they report trials will begin later this week. The protest began more than six weeks ago when Mahsa Armini died while in the custody of Iran's morality police. She's become a symbol in the fight for women's rights and freedoms across the country. 
 
CNN's Anna Coren is tracking developments for us. She joins me now from Hong Kong. Good to see you, Anna. So, what more are you learning about these public trials linked to anti-government protests across the country?
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Rosemary, this is the regime's attempt to really shut down this protest movement, which has now entered its its seventh week. 
 <br>[03:39:56]
 
You know, the more than thousand people that will be publicly tried. They are young, they are students, and they don't know what their fate will be. And that is the really terrifying aspect of these trials. What will their sentences be? 
 
We heard from the chief justice of the judiciary who said that these trials will take place this week. They will be public trials and that they're for people who, quote, "have carried out acts of sabotage in recent events, including assaulting or martyring security guards, setting fire to public property."
 
And as you mentioned, these protests began after the death of 22-year- old Mahsa Amini back on the 16th of September. She'd been arrested by the morality police. Days later she was dead. People have been taking to the street week after week. According to human rights groups, Rosemary, hundreds of people have been killed. Thousands have been arrested and sent to prison. 
 
And as we know, they are conservative numbers because we are not there on the ground. We are having to go off social media. We're having to go off human rights groups, but these numbers we believe are very conservative. We've also heard from a mother, once again, on social media, she is pleading for the life of her 22-year-old son who took part in these protests. He has now been sentenced to death. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MASOUHMEH AHMADI, MOTHER OF MAN GIVEN DEATH SENTENCE (through translator):  They are treating my child unfairly. They have interrogated him without an attorney present. And in that very first session of the court, they have sentenced him to death. Is this Islamic justice? In what court do they issue an execution sentence in the first session and they want to execute the sentence equally quickly. Please, please help and support us. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN:  Now the head of the feared revolutionary guard said that the rioters, that the protests, the riots would end on Saturday. That would be their last day. Well, the protestors have defied that order and have continued to take to the streets, and we've seen those violent and ugly clashes, Rosemary, continue. 
 
CHURCH:  All right, Anna Coren, many thanks for that live report. I appreciate it. 
 
Indian police have arrested nine people in connection with a deadly bridge collapse on Sunday. This dramatic video showing the moment the bridge fell apart and plunged into the water, at least 135 people were killed, including 30 children.
 
The bridge had only recently reopened from scheduled maintenance. Funerals and cremations began on Monday for some of those who died in the accident. The Indian government has agreed to compensate families of the victims. 
 
And CNN's Vedika Sud joins me now from New Delhi. So Vedika, what more are you learning about these nine people arrested in connection with this tragic bridge collect?
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER:  Rosemary, all these nine people are affiliated with the company that was given the contract to maintain this bridge. Like you mentioned, it's surprising that this bridge reopened just last week after six to seven months of repair work. One would imagine it would be in a good state for people to aboard and walk across, but that wasn't the case.
 
I want to start with an account from a survivor who escaped death but saw many others die right before his eyes.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  Death was in front of us. When we were on the bridge, we saw people falling in the river and we feared we might also fall, but by God's grace we could hold the safety net and did not let our grips go loose and came out safely. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  Many children were enjoying holidays for Diwali, and they came here as tourists. All of them fell on top of one another. The bridge collapsed due to overloading. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD:  We believe that a cable snapped. That's what one of the government ministers of Gujarat, the western state where this incident has taken place had said. But investigations are still on. Nine people arrested, most of them junior officials at the company, which begs us to ask the question, what about the owners of this company that had the contract and them to maintain this bridge?
 
What about the Gujarat government who gave the nod for this bridge to reopen? Was there a fitness certificate that was given ahead of tourists getting onto this bridge? There's so many heartbreaking stories, Rosemary. 
 
There's a woman who's lost her husband and 11 other family members. There's a young girl who managed to escape death, but in her case, she lost her brother and sister-in-law. Over 30 children have died. Like the survivor mentioned it was festive season. It was a holiday week for children and their parents. They thought they'd spend those 15 to 20 cents getting onto that bridge, which is known locally as the hanging bridge, and enjoyed themselves for a while.
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
But it ended in a massive tragedy and countless lives lost. We still don't have the final casualty figure on us, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  Yes, devastating losses for those families. Vedika Sud joining us with that live update. Many thanks. 
 
Well, still to come, China locks down Shanghai Disneyland amid fears of rising COVID cases with people still inside. How strict COVID measures are affecting companies across the country when we return.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Welcome back, everyone. The Elon Musk era of Twitter is only a few days old and changes are already coming. At least four top executives have been terminated, including the CEO and the company's previous board of directors was dissolved as part of the merger agreement. 
 
Meanwhile, internal Twitter documents viewed by CNN show the company is considering offering verified accounts to users willing to pay a 19.99 a month subscription fee.
 
Donie O'Sullivan has more on the story. 
 
DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN REPORTER:  Musk is already creating a lot of waves after only taking over Twitter just a few days ago. He had to reassure or he assured the European Commission on Monday. We heard that Twitter was going to fully comply with laws, rules and regulations across the European Union.
 
That of course, comes amid concerns about how exactly is Musk going to run this company. We have heard concerns from groups that there could be more hate or misinformation on the platform. And of course, we saw over the weekend, Musk tweeting out misinformation, a conspiracy theory about how Speaker Pelosi's husband, Paul Pelosi, who was attacked last week.
 
Also, for Twitter users, some radical changes reportedly coming in place. We're hearing from people inside the company that Twitter verification, that famous blue badge, that users, verified users on the platform guess to prove they are who they say they are. That has normally been reserved for NGOs, big organizations, celebrities, journalists, sports teams, et cetera.
 
What we're hearing is that Musk wants to make that available for anyone that they can go and get themselves verified on Twitter. It is going to come at a price though, reportedly of about $20 U.S. dollars a month. And may not go down so well with people who already have those blue badges. What we're hearing is they may have to pay $20 a month, to keep that badge.
 
So, all sorts of change happening at the company. We're hearing from a lot of anxious people who are inside the company wondering if they will have jobs tomorrow morning, and how this platform is really going to change. It's going to be a rollercoaster for staff and users, of the -- of Twitter for at least some time to come.
 
Back to you. 
 <br>[03:50:02]
 
CHURCH:  Thanks for that report. Well, workers at a Foxconn manufacturing plant in China have been attempting to flee the premises after enduring strict COVID lockdown according to Reuters. China's largest manufacturing hub was put under lockdown just weeks ago with Foxconn workers reportedly being quarantined on site to continue work as cases rise. 
 
CNN's Kristie Lu Stout is following the story from Hong Kong. So, Kristie, how is the COVID-19 lockdown in central China affecting the Apple supply chain? 
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Rosemary, we are closely monitoring and watching these reports of a number of workers from an Apple iPhone factory in Zhengzhou just leaving and fleeing in droves. This after the factory imposed a lockdown in order to curb rising cases of COVID-19. Now Zhengzhou is a huge manufacturing hub for Apple and for the
 
 iPhone. And just last month, the entire city imposed this citywide lockdown, which effectively shut down all non-essential businesses affecting factory production as well.
 
And if we bring up in full, you see this video that's been going viral on social media. You see people leaving the city of Zhengzhou. It's located in Central China. They're leaving in droves. They are walking out the streets and on the highway as well, just as the city it continues to enforce this punishing zero COVID lockdown.
 
CNN was able to geolocate the videos. They were indeed taken in Zhengzhou, but we were not able to identify the people in these videos. But given the disturbances and given what's happening with zero COVID in Zhengzhou, what kind of impact is it having on Apple supply chain? 
 
Well, according to one analyst, it's having a significant hit. Let's bring it up for you. This is a regional based analyst who points out this, quote, "more than 10 percent of global iPhone production capacity is currently affected as Foxconn's Zhengzhou iPhone plants suddenly entered close at production without warning." 
 
Now Go (Ph) adds that he believes that, Foxconn's production capacity will improve in the coming weeks, and he also adds, it will have a, quote, "limited impact on iPhone shipments in the fourth quarter."
 
Now, we've also learned in the last couple of hours that Foxconn in order to retain is now giving staff a bonus of $55 U.S. dollars a day. Now we continue to monitor the situation in Zhengzhou in zero COVID. 
 
China, Shanghai as well. And on Monday, the Disney resort there just abruptly closed. And as a result, guests were trapped inside.
 
In fact, guests were told that they were to remain in the park, stay put until they were able to provide proof of a negative COVID test. As you can imagine, a number of visitors weren't happy. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN (through translator):  I'm a little disappointed. We've been waiting inside for quite a long time today. We flew in from Xianzhen (Ph)for Halloween because there are supposed to be limited edition fireworks, and then today there are no floats, no fireworks, and no parade of villains. I didn't see anything and I waited until it was almost 10 o'clock before I came out, and then cold and hungry.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LU STOUT:  According to Reuters, Disney says that all of its guests managed to leave the park with negative COVID test results. 
 
Back to you, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  All right, thanks for that. Kristie Lu Stout joining us from Hong Kong. Well, just ahead. Taylor Swift's new album, Midnight Keeps Breaking
 
 records. Her latest accomplishment puts her in very elite company. We'll explain. 
 <br>[03:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Taylor Swift keeps setting records and this one is pretty impressive. On Monday, she became the first artist to claim the top 10 spots on the billboard hot 100 chart. At the same time, by the way, to put that achievement into perspective, the Beatles only got the top five. She also breaks the record held by Drake who only got nine of the top 10 position on the chart. Pretty impressive, huh? 
 
Well, a Hollywood connection to civil rights heroes is getting a new life online, thanks to a viral clip.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN:  Who paid for the hospital bill. 
 
JULIA ROBERTS, ACTRESS:  OK. Her research is very good. 
 
UNKNOWN:  We're professionals.
 
ROBERTS:  This is a -- the King family paid for my hospital bill. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Not my family.
 
ROBERTS:  Not your family, but --
 
UNKNOWN:  Martin Luther King, Jr.
 
ROBERTS:  And Coretta.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Actress Julia Roberts there during an interview with the History Channel in September. The clip received a new life online for Robert's birthday on Friday. Roberts shared that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s children were part of a theater school owned by her parents here in Atlanta. The families became friends not knowing Julia Roberts would one day become an international celebrity.
 
Great story there. Well, U.S. singer Bono has written a memoir which is released today, but it's not your typical rock and roll tell-all. The book covers his experiences growing up in Ireland in the 70s, his political activism and humanitarian work, his relationship with Ali, his wife of 40 years, and of course, his firsthand account of being in one of the world's biggest rock bands. Bono will be doing a Solo 14 city book tour across the United States and Europe throughout the month of November. Every show is sold out. Not surprising.
 
And thank you so much for spending part of your day with me. I'm Rosemary Church. CNN Newsroom continues with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)