Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: U.S. Midterms Just One Week Away; Mars Lander Completed Its Mission; Economics of Halloween. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired October 31, 2022 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey you! Hope you had a happy hollow weekend and you`re ready to trick go treat yourself later today. Can`t wait to see your 
 
 costumes.
 
I`ve already been loving some of the bald dude costumes I`ve seen like the one from math teacher Allison Frank (ph) from Philly and some of you have 
 
 some serious vest game, we could be vesties. 
 
I`m Coy. This is CNN. Let`s start this week off strong. 
 
The midterms are one week away. On November 8th, Americans will cast their votes for representatives in Congress and candidates for state and local 
 
 offices. They`re called midterm elections remember because they happen two years into a U.S. president`s four-year term. Every two years, all 435 
 
 seats in the House of Representatives is up for election, while about a third of the 100-seat Senate are up for grabs. 
 
Many states have aligned their elections on this schedule which means governors as well as various state officials, local positions and 
 
 government initiatives are on the ballot. The main question on everyone`s mind is, will Democrats maintain control of the Congress for the remainder 
 
 of this presidential term? Or will Republicans take control of one or both chambers of Congress? 
 
Then, what about those races for governor and state legislatures? We`ll hear now from CNN national politics reporter Eva McKend on how the results 
 
 of this year`s election could impact the next two years of politics in America,
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS REPORTER:  President Joe Biden needs Democrats to win in the 2022 midterms, if he wants to move his policy 
 
 agenda forward. Yet the president`s party almost always loses seats in midterm elections. The party in the White House has lost seats in Congress 
 
 in every midterm except for four in the last 150 years. 
 
And poll suggests that voters are disappointed in what President Biden and the Democratic majority have accomplished so far, which doesn`t bode well 
 
 for their 2022 chances.
 
SEN. MITCH MCCONELL (R-KY):  And it`s my hope that the `22 election will be a referendum on the performance of the current administration. 
 
MCKEND:  So what would Republican power in Congress mean? First, Biden`s political agenda will be fully halted. He`s already had a hard time getting 
 
 much of his policy priorities passed. Democrats have a narrow majority in both the Senate and House if they lose even a few seats in 2022, 
 
 Republicans will take back power and stop Biden in his tracks.
 
Of course, Republicans would then find it difficult to get anything passed and signed by President Biden. This all leads to gridlock on Capitol Hill.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Ten-second trivia:
 
Which of these social media sites has the lowest character limit per post?
 
Instagram, Twitter, Facebook or TikTok?
 
The current limit for a tweet is 280 characters, far lower than the others. But changes may soon be coming for the Twitterverse.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DONIE O`SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Today is the day many people thought they would never see Elon Musk taking control of Twitter. Of course, the 
 
 question now is what is he going to do with the company, with the platform? 
 
He`s expressed his frustration with how many fake accounts and bots are on the platform, so we could see him doing something with that. But he`s also 
 
 expressed discomfort about permanently banning people from the platform, knows most notably of course that former U.S. President Donald Trump who 
 
 was kicked off at the platform for good we thought after the January attack on the Capitol. 
 
Musk saying though that he will not be making these decisions anytime soon. He is going to set up a council he says of experts who are going to advise 
 
 on these types of decisions around speech, around what they should do about banning people or bringing them back. 
 
Within the company itself, speaking to people who work there today, a lot of worry, a lot of concern about what is going to happen with the company, 
 
 but also what is going to happen with their jobs and their livelihoods.
 
Donie O`Sullivan, CNN, Dallas.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Up next, we`re headed to outer space. NASA`s InSight lander, a robotic spacecraft designed to land on the surface of Mars, has completed 
 
 its mission to map the planet and its interior. The latest mission found information that changes how experts view the formation of planets and 
 
 their relationship to Earth.
 
CNN space and defense correspondent Kristin Fisher is on the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNOUNCER:  Touchdown confirmed!
 
(CHEERS)
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Three years after NASA`s InSight lander touched down on Mars, it has delivered 
 
 the information that it was sent to collect from millions of miles away. 
 
BRUCE BANERDT, PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR, MARS INSIGHT:  This is definitely a data that we`ve been waiting decades for.
 
FISHER:  For the first time, scientists have mapped the interior of another rocky planet. They discovered a thinner than expected crust. And the 
 
 biggest surprise a larger lighter and more liquid core than earlier estimates. 
 
For comparison, Earth`s core is much more dense. Meaning the Martian core is at least partially made of different elements.
 
Why is this important? Why should Earthlings care about the composition of Mars?
 
BANERDT:  It allows us to take our theories of the formation of rocky planets in general and the Earth in particular and understand how our 
 
 planet formed out of the initial solar nebula, how it changed from just kind of a ball of kind of gray, indistinguishable meteoritic material to 
 
 the diverse planet we have today with oceans and continents.
 
FISHER:  On Earth, there are earthquakes. But on Mars, they are called Mars-quakes. The InSight lander is cutting edge seismometer spent two years 
 
 measuring them and tracking those seismic waves as they rippled through the Red Planet, while NASA`s other active robot is focused on the surface.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Halloween is upon us, and according to the National Retail Federation, Americans are ghouling all out, spending a record amount of 
 
 mummy on Halloween this year -- whether it`s buying candy, costumes, decorations or pumpkins to carve. 
 
Let`s break down the economics of this year`s Halloween.
 
Spending is projected to hit a record $10.6 billion in 2022, and participation in Halloween related activities will resume to pre-pandemic 
 
 levels, with nearly 70 percent of consumers planning to celebrate. That`s up from 65 percent last year and even, the 68 percent who celebrated pre-
 
 pandemic in 2019. But no matter how you spend your Halloween, one thing we can all agree upon is that not all Halloween candy is created equal, 
 
 according to Candy Commerce.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I can`t process that this is even candy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`ve never seen these before either.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  You also might heave.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That`s actually disgusting.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That is not great. 
 
CARLY SCHILDHAUS, SPOKESPERSON, NATIONAL CONFECTIONERS ASSOCIATION:  What you may love might not be somebody else`s favorite. But there`s something 
 
 for everybody to enjoy. 
 
SUBTITLE:  According a National Retail Fed. Survey, Halloween participation is expected to be back to pre-pandemic levels. 
 
SCHILDHAUS:  Each year, we do over four billion dollars in sales and this year, we are projecting about a five percent increase in chocolate and 
 
 candy sales. For Halloween this year, the top three treats are chocolate, candy corn, which I know is controversial, and gummy candy.
 
SUBTITLE:  Not all candies are loved equally. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I don`t know why people hate on me so much. They`re really not that bad. 
 
SCHILDHAUS:  Whether you love it or you, let`s say, don`t love it, candy corn is an iconic part of the Halloween season.
 
MARCIA MOGELONSKY, DIRECTOR OF INSIGHT, FOOD &amp; DRINK, MINTEL:  It is a direct link to the past because it is a nostalgia, reminder of, you know, 
 
 everybody always got candy corn and we always hated it but we always ate it. Everybody can talk about candy corn. It doesn`t matter where you are, 
 
 you can start a conversation. Candy corn has become one of those commonalities.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It might just be a good memory and not a good reality.
 
SCHILDHAUS:  And people feel that really strong nostalgic tie to different treats. So there are plenty of treats out there that again are really 
 
 innovative and exciting, but people also have that strong emotional connection to maybe something they enjoyed as a child, or at a -- at a 
 
 particularly exciting or challenging time in their life.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Circus peanuts seemed like a mistake. I`m surprised they`re still around.
 
MOGELONSKY:  You give what you remember from the past. You give what you can afford. To buy whatever looks familiar to them. Oh, yeah, I remember 
 
 those Smarties, I`ll take those. There are people who cannot afford to give out Haribo and full-sized Hershey bars to their community. It just doesn`t 
 
 work that way, but they want to have something to give and this is what they can afford.
 
We`ll always have candy. There is something about candy and Americans that is just inseparable. You just have to have our security blanket of sweets.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10. An Iowa dad going all out to freak out unsuspecting trick-or-treaters. Greg Dietzenbach created the 
 
 Monstdoor. The seemingly normal door with a wreath comes to life with digitized eyes and furry arms claws and gnarly teeth. The fuzzy purple 
 
 people eater was created by using a high def TV for the eyes, cutting out door panels and using broomsticks for the arms, and a foam wreath with 
 
 puppet-like strings for the mouth and teeth. 
 
And the result, a perfect 10 out of 10 on the frickle-meter (ph).
 
All right. My sweet like candy, voodoo-ful people, I`m witching you a fantastic Halloween. 
 
Big shout out now to Rapid City, South Dakota South Middle School, rise up. Thanks to everyone for subscribing and commenting on our YouTube channel 
 
 for your shout-outs. Be safe lovely people. Take care of yourself and each other tonight. 
 
Enjoy your day and your can-day. I`m Coy and this is CNN 10.  
 
END