Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: "Dawn" Rights Group Slams Immunity for Saudi Crown Prince; Report Card on 2022 Climate Summit in Egypt; Five Protesters Sentenced to Death in Government Crackdown; Disgraced FTX CEO Draws Comparisons to Bernie Madoff; FIFA and Qatar say no Alcohol to be Sold at World Cup Matches; Dubai Globe Soccer Awards Celebrate best in Game. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired November 18, 2022 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Hello, I'm Lynda Kinkade in for my colleague Becky Anderson, good to have you with us and welcome back to 
 
 "Connect the World". We begin with new developments four years after the killing of journalist and Saudi critic Jamal Khashoggi.
 
The U.S. has determined that the Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman should be given immunity from a lawsuit filed by his fiance. The human rights group 
 
 adorn which the journalist founded alleges that a team of assassins murder Khashoggi at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul back in 2018. U.S. 
 
 intelligence has said it believes the Saudi Crown Prince approved the murder.
 
Well, I want to bring in CNN Senior National Security Correspondent Alex Marquardt, who joins us from Washington D.C. Good to have you with us, 
 
 Alex! So the Biden Administration not suggesting that the Crown Prince is innocent. So what does this immunity call me?
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, they're not going back on their assessment. Remember, this was an intelligence 
 
 committee assessment, sorry, intelligence community assessment that Jamal Khashoggi was murdered at the direction of the Crown Prince MBS.
 
What they're saying here is that he deserves immunity in this lawsuit that was brought against him here in federal court in Washington D.C., by the 
 
 fiance of Jamal Khashoggi. And they're saying that he deserves immunity, because he is now a head of government.
 
He had been the Crown Prince. He still is he is the Defense Minister. But he just recently got a new title added, and that is the title of Prime 
 
 Minister. His father made him the Prime Minister and therefore, Lynda, he now becomes the Head of the Saudi government.
 
And under past precedent and international law, the State Department said heads of government and heads of state are given immunity. That is the 
 
 argument that was made in an 11th hour court finally by the Department of Justice last night, at the urging of the State Department saying that he 
 
 deserves to be granted immunity because he is Head of the Saudi government.
 
Here's a little bit more of what the State Department told me. This suggestion of immunity does not reflect an assessment on the merits of the 
 
 case. It speaks to nothing on broader policy or the state of relations. This was purely a legal determination.
 
Now across administration, there is an unbroken practice of the United States recognizing immunity for heads of government while they are in 
 
 office. So they are pointing to this unbroken practice this legal determination.
 
That is something that we understand the Biden Administration wanted to stand by, they were under no obligation to weigh in, but they're saying, 
 
 well, what if the tables were turned and an American Head of State or Head of government was in legal jeopardy? They would want immunity for American 
 
 officials as well, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: So Alex, just take us through the reactions. I understand you have spoken to Khashoggi's widow. What did she say?
 
MARQUARDT: Well, I did reach out to Jamal Khashoggi's fiance. They were engaged. They got married in Islamic ceremony shortly before he was killed. 
 
 In fact, that's why Khashoggi was at the consulate in Turkey in Istanbul when he was killed.
 
He was trying to get documents in order to get married. I did speak with her. She emailed me saying that this is a devastating day. She blames Biden 
 
 himself saying Biden betrayed his word he betrayed Jamal history will not forget.
 
And then she tweeted out to for the world to see that Biden saved the murder MBS by granting immunity. He saved the criminal and got involved in 
 
 the crime himself. Let's see who will save you in the hereafter.
 
We're also hearing some anger on political hill, particularly from Democrats. Congresswoman Debbie Dingell from Michigan earlier said today on 
 
 CNN that she was stunned and disturbed.
 
I spoke with a Congressional Aide another Democrat who works on Saudi issues who said that this is another dark chapter so the Biden 
 
 Administration certainly was expecting this backlash and they are feeling it today Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yes, no doubt. Alex Marquardt in Washington thanks very much! And Jamal Khashoggi's human rights group dawn is slamming the move to give the 
 
 Saudi Crown Prince immunity from the lawsuit. Executive Director spoke to CNN earlier. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SARAH LEAH WHITSON, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DEMOCRACY FOR THE ARAB WORLD NEW: What we are doing by granting this concession to Mohammed Bin Salman, by 
 
 shielding him from accountability is giving him a green light to keep at it keep attacking people in United States as he has been doing because they 
 
 criticize him.
 
Keep jailing women and men in Saudi Arabia because they have an opinion about the politics of the country. Keep subjecting Yemen to a siege where 
 
 millions of people are starving as a result of this idiotic war that he started this is a green light.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
KINKADE: Well, she went on to say to CNN that she caused the immunity move a shocking development. Well, North Korea is drawing a fierce backlash 
 
 after it carried out another missile test early Friday the intercontinental ballistic missile flew for about thousand kilometers before landing in the 
 
 sea west of Japan. That's according to the Japanese Coast Guard.
 
Tensions with North Korea are at the top of the agenda as world leaders meet for the APEC Summit in Bangkok, Thailand. U.S. Vice President Kamala 
 
 Harris caught an emergency meeting on that launch and blasted Pyongyang for its "Brazen violation of UN Security Council resolutions".
 
In the last few hours the U.S. and South Korea have conducted joint exercises in response. CNN's Paula Hancocks joins us now from the South 
 
 Korean Capital, Seoul. Good to have you with us Paula! So Japan says this intercontinental missile could have the potential to reach all the way to 
 
 U.S. mainland, what can you tell us about it?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes Lynda, this is something we've heard recently certainly from the ICBM back in March as well and even back in 
 
 2017, when they were firing these ICBMs. There was an assumption that if it was fired at a normal angle, then it would be able to reach much of the 
 
 world including mainland United States.
 
What North Korea does at this point, when it's testing these missiles is fire it straight into the air so it lands not far from where it was 
 
 launched. This is how they can make sure they can test the range without it firing over any other countries.
 
It was also confirmed by a Senior Administration Official that they believe this is the capability that they have. And they also spoke about Vice 
 
 President Harris calling together this very hasty emergency meeting with the Leaders of Japan of South Korea, also Australia, New Zealand and 
 
 Canada.
 
All of those countries sat down and condemned the missile launch by North Korea. They also started to talk about how they could work together in the 
 
 future? This was widely condemned Vice President Harris also saying it destabilizes the security in the region, and unnecessarily raises tensions.
 
Now, as you mentioned, Lynda, there was a fairly swift physical reaction as well. Japan's Ministry of Defense says that they sent jets into the air 
 
 quickly, in fact they also say that they fired - they filmed what they believe is the contrails or the vapor trails of that ballistic missile from 
 
 North Korea.
 
And we also saw joint drills from the air forces of the U.S. and South Korea. What they were doing is simulating an aerial attack on a mobile 
 
 missile launcher. The Joint Chiefs of Staff here in Seoul saying it was to show North Korea that they were able to find out exactly where a launch 
 
 came from, and then pinpoint and attack that area if they needed to Lynda.
 
KINKADE: All right. Paula Hancocks for us in Seoul good to have you on the story thank you! Ukraine's Prime Minister says Russian missile strikes have 
 
 disabled almost half the country's energy system, and he's calling for more support from European nations as Ukraine phases a cold and dark winter.
 
Ukraine is scrambling to repair damaged power sites as temperatures fall in demand for electricity soars. Officials say blackouts are needed in some 
 
 areas to keep the system stable. CNN's Nic Robertson visited Eastern Ukraine to see how civilians are preparing for a harsh winter without 
 
 power.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice over): Gas just came back to Kramatorsk a boon of battlefield games. Maria, a 70 year old 
 
 pensioner wasn't expecting it had bought a wood burning stove. It was hard without gas, she tells us and now thanks to God, we're OK but for how long?
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): When the government turned the gas back on here at the beginning of November they did it without any big announcement, because 
 
 like every other critical service here gas depends on electricity. And that's what Russia's targeting.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): When I met the Mayor here three months ago, he was urging residents to leave ahead of winter.
 
OLEKSANDR HONCHARENKO, KARMATORSK, UKRAINE MAYOR: We don't have gas at all and it's not possible to repair gas lines.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): When we meet now he tells me the population has actually increased by 30 to 35,000 people over 80,000 total residents 
 
 returning home even though the situation because Russia is targeting the power grid is much more precarious. Lives he fears may be lost in what he 
 
 expects to be the harshest winter since independence 30 years ago.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
HONCHARENKO: Electricity disappears, cities are plunged into darkness. Anything can happen. Boilers can stop gas distribution networks can stop. 
 
 It can be left without everything, even without heat.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): Keeping warm is on everyone's minds this factory making heating logs from sunflower seeds demand outstripping capacity.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our requests have gone up three or fourfold. We don't have enough trucks for deliveries.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): They're working at full capacity here. Everything that's ready shipped out immediately but the whole system here extremely 
 
 vulnerable. The electricity could go off at any moment.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): Every log delivered a few hours spared from the cold, each sack, perhaps a week's peace of mind.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): Did you got everything in the order?
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): His answer everything, everything all good perfect. I don't have words. Food is also on people's minds this winter mostly 
 
 pensioners, mostly poor, bundle up against the cold a free bread distribution, tempting them out of frigid homes.
 
If they help us like they do here, it will be fine 84-year-old Yulia tells us I'm a child of World War Two she says we were cold hungry, but we 
 
 survived. Across town, another pensioner 82-year-old Oleksandr (ph) shows us the basement she shares with neighbors already stockpiling food for 
 
 winter. No gas for warmth here just an old electric heater.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): But when there's no electricity, you have no heat. How do you stay warm?
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): We just have to put on our coats, wrap ourselves in blankets and go to bed she says that's how we live. That's how we exist. 
 
 Born into war she says I'll probably die in war Nic Robertson, CNN Kramatorsk, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, the Attorneys for the American Basketball Star Brittney Griner say she has been moved to a penal colony Southeast of Moscow. That's 
 
 where she has begun serving her nine year prison sentence.
 
Griner was convicted in August of smuggling drugs into Russia. She lost her court appeal last month. Griner is being held in the same region as 
 
 American Paul Whelan. He's serving a 16 year sentence for espionage charges which he denies. The U.S. says Griner and Whelan are being wrongfully 
 
 detained.
 
Well, still ahead, has the world gotten any closer to the goal of limiting global warming? We'll talk to a climate expert about the annual conference 
 
 that's underway in Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt. Also, Twitter's employees are walking out the door. Elon Musk is telling jokes about just how much money 
 
 the company is losing the latest on a tech giant in big trouble when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NAKEEYAT DRAMANI, GHANAIAN ACTIVIST: There's less than 86 months to go before we hit 1.5 and I'm already much older than that. So they are people 
 
 at the scope. I appeal to you have a heart and do the math. It is an emergency.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: A standing ovation there for young activists from Ghana as she issues an urgent plea at the Annual COP 27 Climate Summit in Egypt. Well, 
 
 the President of this year's Summit is issuing a similar warning saying time is not on our side.
 
The conference has been extended by one day as countries grapple with a host of complex issues, including the creation of a loss and damage fund to 
 
 provide money to countries hit hardest by climate disasters. The EU says it will back a proposal for the fund with certain conditions as delegates wait 
 
 to hear from the U.S. and China. The UN Secretary General says the climate clock is ticking.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL: There has been clearly in the past times the breakdown in trust between loss and - and between developed 
 
 and emerging economies. But this is no time for finger pointing. The blame game is recipe for mutually assured destruction. I'm here to appeal to all 
 
 parties to rise to this moment, and to the greatest challenge that humanity is facing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, let's get a report card on this year's summit. What worked, what can be done and what needs to be done? Alex Scott joins us now from 
 
 Sharm el Sheikh. She's a Climate Diplomacy and Geopolitics Program Leader at a think tank E3G. Good to have you with us!
 
ALEX SCOTT, CLIMATE DIPLOMATIC AND GEOPOLITICS PROGRAMME LEADER, E3G: Thanks very much for having me.
 
KINKADE: So there's much to discuss. But let's start with this clash over degrees this level of 1.5 degrees Celsius that we're trying to prevent. 
 
 Some say we've already passed that point of 1.5 degrees Celsius of global warming. What's your assessment?
 
SCOTT: At the moment, I think we're teetering on the edge of 1.2 degrees. And the policies that governments have pledged to put in place to reduce 
 
 their emissions at the moment are not going to get us to that 1.5 degree target.
 
We need a lot more policy, a lot more action from governments but also from businesses to be able to keep climate impacts to the lowest level possible 
 
 to keep climate safety as good as we can possibly get it.
 
KINKADE: And so speaking of policy, there was a lot of discussion at this conference about a loss and damage of fund. At the last Summit hosted by 
 
 Scotland, Scotland was the only country backing this sort of idea. Now there are many more European countries on board.
 
But the biggest polluting countries, China and the U.S. and not onboard just yet. And this sort of a policy would mean funds going to vulnerable 
 
 countries that are least responsible for the climate crisis, right?
 
SCOTT: Exactly. It's going to countries who are suffering the brunt of the climate change impacts that we're already facing at kind of 1.1 to 1.2 
 
 degrees, and we know that more are coming. They're getting fiercer. We've had scientists through the IPCC reports show that we're expecting a lot of 
 
 worsening of those climate impacts.
 
And these countries that are facing already a lot of economic distress from the pandemic, they're facing debt distress, and then they've got food 
 
 crises and energy crises on top of that. Thanks to Russia's aggression in Ukraine, these countries don't have the funds to deal with climate impacts 
 
 when they're hitting.
 
And that's what we're discussing here at this COP. That's the big issue. It's the first time it's had real political level attention. Ministers are 
 
 here discussing what the funding arrangements need to look like right now. And we need to see a deal on what those loss and damage funding 
 
 arrangements could look like in order to progress out of this COP 27 in Sharm el Sheikh?
 
KINKADE: The future of Africa's energy infrastructures is also an issue. Half a billion people across Africa over half a billion people across 
 
 Africa don't even have access to electricity. And many countries want to exploit the natural resources on our continent. Take us through that 
 
 debate.
 
SCOTT: I think the next steps on the energy transition are really top of mind at this conference as well. We've had some countries really clear that 
 
 we need to look beyond just reducing coal and look to oil and gas as well.
 
We saw India as the first major country putting that proposal on the table and we've seen other countries really embrace that like the European Union 
 
 like Colombia.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
SCOTT: What we also saw during the World Leaders Summit segment at the start of this cup was a lot of African leaders coming out very strongly 
 
 saying they see their future in 100 percent renewable energy.
 
They see the value of distributed energy opportunities from solar, the ability to improve energy access quickly across large swathes of land, 
 
 across lots of different communities through the opportunities of renewable energy. But at the same time, we have seen some countries looking to the 
 
 issue of gas and questioning the role of gas as a transition fuel.
 
We've had some fossil fuel lobbyists here at the conference as well, everybody, everybody can get access. But I think what we've seen overall is 
 
 that the overwhelming support is for this future of switching to renewable energies. And we've had some big deals announced on funding some of that 
 
 transition for some African countries as well. Last year, it was South Africa.
 
This year, we've had discussions with Senegal, with Egypt and outside of Africa as well, looking at Indonesia and Vietnam, so just energy transition 
 
 partnerships to mobilize a large amount of money to deal with that, that renewable energy infrastructure you describe.
 
KINKADE: All right, Alex Scott, we'll leave it there for now. But as we've said, this climate summit will continue it has been extended. We'll wait 
 
 and see what comes out of it. Thanks very much. Well human rights issues have been front and center. This is called 27 Summit, in particular the 
 
 case of an Egyptian activist, Alaa Abd El-Fattah, he has been imprisoned for much of the last decade.
 
At the beginning of this year's COP conference, he escalated a month long hunger strike, and after briefly being put on an IV drip, his family says 
 
 now threatening to resume the strike if his case is not addressed. Now, having seen him in prison Thursday, his sister described to him as frail, 
 
 vulnerable, and emotional.
 
Well, CNN's David McKenzie was on the ground at that COP27 conference in Cairo. He joins us now from Johannesburg. Good to have you with us again, 
 
 David. So he's gone months with very little food days without water. His family only gets to see him once a month for a visit and what they're 
 
 describing, it sounds pretty dire.
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It's very dire. And it's true to say that human rights have cast a shadow over this COP. Of 
 
 course, it was and is supposed to be a way to highlight the President Sisi's leadership in Egypt, about that human rights record was consistently 
 
 put under question.
 
As - save his sister was at COP at those meetings gave an emotional plea to people there for the safety of a brother which for many, many months and 
 
 weeks, they were unable to ascertain whether Abdel el-Fattah was even alive. He's been on a hunger strike, as you say, in and out of jail.
 
For much of the last decade, he is one of the best known activists and writers who really gained prominence in the 2011 uprisings in Egypt. Now 
 
 the family was able, according to them to see him on Thursday at a Cairo cell in Cairo prison. They gave this very raw description, very disturbing 
 
 description of some of the events that he went through.
 
And I'm quoting them as he was being carried out, he lost it had a meltdown and promised to kill himself if taken back to his cell. When they put him 
 
 in his cell, h started to smash his head against the wall. He was restrained and then tied down.
 
Now it seems according to the family that he was given an IV drip when he came to that that at least for now, hunger strike is broken somewhat by 
 
 force. The Egyptian public prosecutor's office said last week that he is in fact, "good health". And when we put the question to the foreign minister 
 
 at the COP meetings, he said that Abdel Fattah had had a free trial.
 
This is a serious indictment, say activists of the human rights record in Egypt. The discussions between the British prime minister and Egyptian 
 
 authorities appear to have gone nowhere. He gained British citizenship while in detention and he still remains in that detention as these climate 
 
 talks continue. Lynda?
 
KINKADE: All right, David McKenzie for us in Johannesburg, thank you. Well, I want to go to Iran now where the harsh crackdown on anti-government 
 
 demonstrations that Iran has led to five alleged protesters being sentenced to death in recent days. At least 1000 people have been arrested and human 
 
 rights groups say at least 342 people have been killed since September.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
KINKADE: Now on Wednesday, a nine year old boy was added to that death toll. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Nine year old Qian wanted to be an inventor. He shows off a wooden boat he made for a competition. We 
 
 don't know when this video was filmed. It surfaced on social media after a little Qian was killed.
 
It was one of a number of people killed Wednesday in what state media said was a shooting incident in the southwestern city of Izeh where anti-
 
 government protests have been raging for days. Family members say Qian was on his way home with his father when he was shot.
 
The Iranian government says this was a terrorist attack. But activists say Qian is a victim of the regime's ruthless crackdown on protest one of more 
 
 than 40 children killed since September according to rights groups. Every day for more than 60 days now Iranians have been burying their dead, more 
 
 than 300 lives lost in this battle for change.
 
30-year-old Burhan Karami was shot in the head on Wednesday according to activists. This disturbing video captures the moment a bullet struck him. 
 
 At Karami's burial mourners chant, mother don't grief for your child, we will take his revenge. With every funeral their rage grows the brutality 
 
 only fueling their determination to risk it all for regime change.
 
That regime struggling to contain the popular uprising is now sentencing protesters to death. Several have been handed the death penalty this week 
 
 in what human rights groups say or sham trials, the repressive Republic's latest attempt to crush the growing dissent, but nothing seems to be 
 
 stopping the will of the people.
 
The third month of the uprising began with a new wave of strikes and protests sweeping across the country. The rising voices for freedom are 
 
 refusing to be silenced. Jomana Karadsheh, CNN Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, still ahead a father trying to find formula for his baby put in handcuffs and more families grieving the loss of a loved one just 
 
 suicide. While China's zero COVID policy is pushing people to the limit.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. Well it appears that Twitter could crash at any moment and it's unclear if there is any one of the company who would fix 
 
 it. All the Twitter's offices are closed today after Elon Musk gave employees an ultimatum to either work harder or leave and many employees 
 
 chose to take the exit.
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
KINKADE: Musk who paid $44 billion for Twitter just three weeks ago, responded to the Exodus by tweeting, how do you make a small fortune on 
 
 social media? Start out with a large one. CNN Business Writer Clare Duffy is standing by for us in New York.
 
I mean, where we start Clare, let's start with that tweet. I mean, is Elon Musk being serious? Does he think this is all a joke? Or do you think he 
 
 potentially regrets buying Twitter in the first place?
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN WRITER: I mean, I do think that Elon Musk wanted to get out of buying Twitter, he spent months trying to get out of buying this 
 
 company, I do think that he, you know, he probably regrets that he certainly overpaid for Twitter. And now he's in this position of both sort 
 
 of having to manage the fact that he paid $44 billion for this company, his debt payments are going to come up really quickly.
 
And he has to start sort of making tough decisions about cutting costs and where to spend money. But also now he's cut or pushed out so many employees 
 
 that had really crucial roles at the platform. And we could start seeing that have really significant impacts in terms of the function and the 
 
 safety of Twitter.
 
KINKADE: Yes, and I'm wondering, I mean, legitimately, how I mean, could Twitter actually crash right now? Do you see that realistically happening?
 
DUFFY: I don't think that we'll see Twitter just sort of like go down all at once. But we all are already starting to see some sort of like glitches 
 
 with the platform. You know, there were users who reported having issues, they saw test page loading in real time on the trending section of the site 
 
 this morning, I tried to go and download all my own data from Twitter.
 
And it wasn't able to because the two factor authentication sort of feature that lets you do that was broken. And so I think we do, you know, we might 
 
 start seeing some of these glitches, some of these sorts of like failures of the platform, as you know some of these really crucial employees have 
 
 left and there's not the sort of support that the platform needs to function.
 
KINKADE: And there's no doubt a lot of anger from Twitter employees. We saw those images, that projection on the building and Twitter's headquarters in 
 
 San Francisco, with some pretty damning words for Elon Musk.
 
DUFFY: Right, I think there's anger amongst Twitter employees. There's also anger amongst Twitter users, you know, we have to remember that this is 
 
 still such a crucial platform for journalists to make and spread news for public figures and politicians to communicate with the public.
 
And despite all the chaos that Musk has caused, this is still a really crucial platform that now seems to be under threat. And you know it's also 
 
 worth-noting that the World Cup is this weekend kicks off this weekend. And that's often one of the biggest traffic events for Twitter. And so it 
 
 really could put a lot of strain on the platform in the coming days.
 
KINKADE: Yes, I mean, and I just wonder, like, what the next steps could be for Elon Musk? I mean, what's your read of the situation? Is he going to 
 
 potentially start hiring people? Because I understand is, all these communications team is currently gone?
 
DUFFY: Right, it's really hard to sort of get inside the mind of Elon Musk and try to predict what he's thinking or what his strategy is here. You 
 
 know, he does seem to be sort of brushing this off. He said on Twitter this morning that the best people have stayed. So he's not really worried.
 
And you know it, but it seems hard, like he's going to have to balance the fact that he has some really ambitious goals for the platform. He wants to 
 
 kick-start this subscription platform. He wants to add payments to Twitter, but he also needs to manage sort of the critical infrastructure that keeps 
 
 the platform online.
 
KINKADE: All right. Well, good to have you on the case for us. Clare - angles, thanks so much for your time.
 
DUFFY: Thank you.
 
KINKADE: Well, the collapse of crypto currency giant FTX is sending shockwaves through the industry and prompting calls for more regulation. 
 
 And on top of that, its founder is now facing legal trouble. He's being sued by one of his investors. And Brynn Gingras reports, some well-known 
 
 celebrities also caught up in that legal battle.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: With FTX on everything I need to buy, sell and trade crypto safely.
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Steph Curry, Tom Brady, Gisele Bundchen, celebrities now caught up in the Swift collapse 
 
 of FTX trading. They're among the defendants in the class action lawsuit for their promotion in the failed crypto currency exchange.
 
CHARLES K. WHITEHEAD, PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS LAW, CORNELL LAW SCHOOL: If you're a celebrity, you regularly do endorsements, you endorse sports 
 
 drinks, you endorse tennis shoes, financial instruments are different. And so going out and saying that a financial instrument is great isn't the same 
 
 thing as going out and saying that a sports drink is great and that creates liability.
 
GINGRAS (voice over): FTX Founder Sam Bankman-Fried the lead defendant in the suit once a superstar in the industry who Fortune magazine hailed as 
 
 possibly the next Warren Buffett. Now his alleged business practices drawing comparisons to Bernie Madoff.
 
WHITEHEAD: And it's not entirely clear who's actually getting the money and what's being done with the money, yet begins to look like a Ponzi scheme.
 
GINGRAS (voice over): The company once estimated by Forbes that $32 billion imploded in just 10 days when an industry publication questioned FTX's 
 
 inner workings setting off a downhill spiral of investors quickly pulling out funds.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
GINGRAS (voice over): The company filing for bankruptcy, investigations and accelerating chaos in the crypto currency ecosystem, an unregulated market 
 
 where consumers trade and digital currency not backed by a central bank.
 
RANA FOROOHAR, CNN GLOBAL ECONOMICS ANALYST: In some ways, this collapse of FTX is the Lehman Brothers moment of the crypto world. It is a classic 
 
 financial crisis.
 
GINGRAS (voice over): The new CEO now leading FTX through chapter 11 sang in a court filing he's never seen, "Such a complete failure of corporate 
 
 controls", this from the same man who managed Enron through its bankruptcy. Senators Elizabeth Warren and Dick Durbin is demanding documents from FTX 
 
 to explain how billions just disappeared.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How much of this is effectively an empty, you know, product?
 
GINGRAS (voice over): For his part Bankman-Fried taking to Twitter saying he effed-up and in an interview with a Vox reporter last night showing 
 
 little remorse for money lost saying he's trying to fundraise to pay customers, but it's likely the billions will never be re-coupe.
 
(END VIDEOAPE)
 
GINGRAS: We reached out to a number of celebrities named in that suit but haven't heard back. Now on a larger scale this is having a ripple effect in 
 
 the crypto community it's not really seeped into the financial markets. Advisors obviously, hopefully that doesn't change but say you know, it's 
 
 possible considering we haven't seen the full aftermath of this fall. Now Washington for its part is really speeding up the process of possibly 
 
 instilling regulations on this industry. Brynn Gingras, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories on our radar right now. And Taylor Swift's upcoming concert to a crashed 
 
 Ticketmaster. The ticketing website canceled Friday's public sale after its systems became overwhelmed by Swift Fans during Tuesday's pre-sale and shut 
 
 down.
 
And before that Ticketmaster says it sold a record of 2 million tickets for Swift's concerts in one day. Well, India has successfully launched its 
 
 first privately developed rocket into space. The Vikram-S blasted into the skies early Friday. The mission is seen as a first step towards opening 
 
 India's aerospace industry up to private companies.
 
At least 21 people have died after a fire ripped through a building in a Gaza refugee camp. The fire may have spread rapidly because Gaza only has 
 
 limited hours for electricity. Many people stockpile gasoline to power generators for the off-hours.
 
The capital of China's Western Xinjiang province is just past its 100th day in lockdown, as the country continues to enforce its strict zero COVID 
 
 policy. And the grim milestone comes as China's widespread control measures push people to the brink. CNN's Selina Wang looks at the growing 
 
 desperation. We have to warn you some of the images in this report are very disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The piercing cries of a grieving daughter. She kneels and cries by her mother who leaves motionless 
 
 on the ground still wearing a mask. Her mother jumped to her death from the 12th floor of their apartment building their compound under lockdown in the 
 
 northern region of Inner Mongolia after two COVID cases were reported.
 
In this widely shared audio recording, the daughter has heard banging on the tall barricades that lock residents inside. She pleads, open the gate, 
 
 open the gate. I'm begging you, please. She's eventually allowed to rush to her mother's side. Neighbors filmed the tragedy from their windows.
 
Audio messages capture their desperate pleas to build in management to be allowed to comfort the daughter, COVID enforcers and police surround the 
 
 body. Local police said the 55 year old woman suffered from anxiety disorders. A later statement from police blamed managers of the locked 
 
 building for their slow response.
 
In the eastern province of - a group of COVID enforcers and hazmat suits drag a resident out into the streets. Two people hold the man down while 
 
 others kick and punch him. Another woman is thrown to the ground.
 
Many cases of brutality from COVID workers have not been held accountable, sparking outrage in China. But this time police without giving a motive for 
 
 the attack detained seven COVID workers involved in the bidding.
 
In Hubei Province just outside of Beijing, a desperate father steps out of his car holding a knife. He tells the authorities his baby son has been out 
 
 of baby formula for a long time during lockdown. He gets back in the car and drives right through the COVID barrier. Moments later police arrived.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
WANG (voice over): They escort him handcuffed towards a large group of policemen. They surround him one policeman sprays him down with 
 
 disinfectant. He's arrested all because he needed to feed his baby. After outrage on Chinese social media, local police released a statement saying 
 
 the man had been fined only 100 yen or less than $15 and that his child milk powder problem had been resolved.
 
The scenes of suffering and tragedy adding to rage over the growing human and mental health toll of China's brute force COVID restrictions. In the 
 
 southern metropolis of Guangzhou, residents locked down for weeks rushed to the streets, pushing kicking down red barriers and metal gates trapping 
 
 them in buildings. Protesters cheering and shouting, demanding that they want to eat they want to be unsealed. As people struggle to get enough food 
 
 essentials and medical care and lock down.
 
Beijing recently announced incremental changes to COVID restrictions, but said the country is sticking to its zero COVID policy. And for people 
 
 who've lost their loved ones in lock down, these changes are all too little, too late. Selena Wang, CNN, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: We had to take a quick break. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Well, what would a world cup be without fans celebrating the action with a beer? We are about to find out after Qatar and FIFA abruptly 
 
 announced there would be no alcohol sales around the stadiums for the Football World Cup. The decision is coming at just two days before the 
 
 start of the huge event, reversing an earlier pledge to allow some beer sales in the stadiums.
 
Well among those stunned by the decision was Budweiser, which is paid millions of dollars to be the official beer of the World Cup. Budweiser's 
 
 Twitter account said simply, well, this is awkward. And that tweet was later deleted.
 
Well, Amanda Davies of world sport is in Doha covering the World Cup for us. Certainly a lot of talk in this part of the world about this story, 
 
 pushing ahead with the World Cup no beer in the stadiums, despite the fact that one of the biggest sponsors is a beer company.
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT: That's exactly Lynda, it's the timing of this announcement with just 48 hours to go until the start of kick-off and 
 
 the fact that is one of the biggest name most high profile sponsors of the World Cup with a relationship which dates back over a decade. Just to make 
 
 it clear there's no alcohol that will be allowed inside the eight stadiums to be purchased by fans.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
DAVIES: There will still be alcohol within the hospitality areas and Bud Zero will be served in the areas where the fans are. So Bud will still get 
 
 their name at the grounds and of course, there will still be the ability to buy alcohol at the fan zone and also at the bars and restaurants in hotels 
 
 here in Qatar.
 
But I think you know what this says so much about is the relationship the dynamic that we have between World football's governing body FIFA and the 
 
 Qatar Organizing Committee for this tournament. Usually, whatever happens inside the stadium comes under FIFA rules.
 
But this is a first for football and the World Cup, a first ever Middle Eastern world cup of first World Cup in a Muslim country and Qatar have 
 
 said all along, everybody is welcome. But we ask you please, to respect our culture and our rules. There's certainly a whole lot of people talking 
 
 about sit here this evening.
 
So many fans, as you can probably hear and see behind me are already in the country. The teams are here, the media are here. They think this tells us a 
 
 lot about who is in charge this moment.
 
KINKADE: And Amanda, just how much did Budweiser pay for this sponsorship? But how much do they stem potentially to lose? Or could they be benefiting 
 
 given that we're talking about them today?
 
DAVIES: It's always very difficult to know, you know, the detail of these contracts isn't released. But the figure that is being talked about is $75 
 
 million. That is what the deal is worth. But as I mentioned, Budweiser will still be present at this World Cup.
 
We went to the hotel that they have taken over last night and had dinner. There is no doubt they are here at this World Cup, the fact that Bud Zero 
 
 will still be served inside the grounds, mean their name will be there. But I mean, you just have to look at the number of times we have talked about 
 
 their name shown their logo over the last five or six hours or so since this announcement has been made.
 
And it was only a couple of weeks ago, that Budweiser were talking about the challenge of getting the amount of beer for 1.2 million fans here to 
 
 Qatar in such a short period of time.
 
They were estimating that five weeks' worth of beer was more than would normally be consumed in Qatar over the space of a year. So that's a really 
 
 interesting point to look at. But if you read something into the statement that was released by FIFA earlier it says this.
 
The tournament organizers appreciate - understanding and continuous support and joint co-operation to cater for everyone at the FIFA World Cup Qatar 
 
 2022. You can only imagine the discussions that are going on behind the scenes about who gets what, who has to pay what and what it means for those 
 
 contracts.
 
KINKADE: Yes, exactly. Well, it looks like it's getting late there probably time for you to go have a beer. Amanda Davies, good to have you with us. 
 
 And we will be keeping you up to date with all the twists and turns of this historic world cup. "Connect the World" will be broadcast live from Doha or 
 
 next week that is 7 pm in Abu Dhabi 10 am in New York.
 
And we do hope you will join us for that. Well still to come CNN was at the glamorous Dubai globe soccer awards last night, stay tuned to find out who 
 
 were the big winners.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
KINKADE: We are getting new images from the NASA Artemis 1 mission to the moon including action shots of Commander Moonikin Campos. That's one of the 
 
 three space suit clad sensor equipped mannequins, taking the place of humans on this test run.
 
Artemis launched successfully Wednesday and sent us a shot of Earth in the rear view mirror. That's spectacular. We'll take a look at this other 
 
 angle. If all goes to plan it will return to Earth on December 11. The goal is to send actual humans back to the moon with Artemis 3 which will include 
 
 the first woman and First Person of Color among the crew.
 
Well the waters of eastern Cuba are teeming with sharks and the island nation is letting visitors swim with the sharks so they can learn how 
 
 important they are --the food chain would help boosted tourism as well. And Patrick Oppmann takes us underwater for the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Usually they are the last thing you want to see in the ocean. But sharks are the reason why we have 
 
 come here to the waters of eastern Cuba. We're hoping to see the predators up close and with no cage. Local guides say this is the only place in Cuba 
 
 perhaps one of only a handful in the world where divers can safely swim alongside bull sharks.
 
We are taking them at their word, praying the sharks had a big breakfast. Bull sharks are considered some of the most aggressive in the world. But 
 
 the ones we see see mostly curious, swimming around me for a closer look before gliding away.
 
Guide - says they want to teach visitors to respect sharks and to protect them.
 
The shark is the perfect machine, the perfect predator, he says, it's inspiring, emotional and satisfying to interact with them. Green biologists 
 
 say robust shark populations are necessary to maintain healthy coral reefs.
 
In 2015, Cuba placed restrictions on shark fishing, one of an increasing number of countries in the Caribbean to realize that sharks are not only 
 
 important to the environment, but a way to track visitors.
 
OPPMANN (on camera): People in the Caribbean used to commonly catch and kill sharks, either for food or because they were considered a nuisance. 
 
 But warmer countries in this region are now taking steps to protect sharks. It's not just about conservation. Shark tourism visitors specifically 
 
 coming to a country to dive with sharks can generate millions of dollars in revenue.
 
OPPMANN (voice over): Just before her first dive with sharks, Canadian tourist Carrie tells us she's been terrified of them ever since seeing 
 
 jaws.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I watched the movie very young, and I was even afraid to swimming pools let alone the ocean. So this is a challenge to overcome.
 
OPPMANN (voice over): Guide spear fish to attract the sharks but are careful to use the minimum bait necessary. They say they've never had an 
 
 attack involving a client or guide and that people come to dive here gain a new perspective on sharks.
 
It's the myth of the shark being dangerous, a mannequin that is aggressive, he says then you manage to see a shark a meter and a half away from you.
 
And when you come out of the water, they say this is the best time of my life. The sharks we swim with are undeniably powerful and also incredibly 
 
 beautiful at the top of the food chain, but never seeming to threaten us.
 
OPPMANN (on camera): And they said the shot of adrenaline in your arm they were not kidding. No admit to being afraid but they're very impressive 
 
 creatures.
 
OPPMANN (voice over): Creatures that there are now more and more reasons to try and protect. Patrick Oppmann, CNN, Playa Santa Lucia Cuba.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, it's not just world cup host Qatar that has caught football fever the whole region is buzzing. The annual globe soccer awards kicked-
 
 off festivities in Dubai on Thursday and the ceremony celebrated the best the game has to offer. French forward Karim Benzema took home the men's 
 
 Player of the Year.
 
Other stars picking up prizes including Liverpool's Mohamed Salah, AC Milan's Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Alexia Putellas from Barcelona's women's 
 
 team. And if you are a regular viewer of the show, you'll know that CNN partnered with the awards this year to launch the off the pitch prize 
 
 celebrating those who have gone above and beyond to help their communities. Well former footballer Didier Drogba won for his work in bringing 
 
 electricity and health centers to villages in his native Ivory Coast.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
KINKADE: Well, my colleague Becky Anderson was at the awards. And she spoke to Ibrahimovic who won an award celebrating his career. She asked which 
 
 players he'll be watching out for at the World Cup, take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZLATAN IBRAHIMOVIC, STRIKER, AC MILAN: Enjoy probably you watch every game, difficult to miss and hope the fans will enjoy it, which I'm pretty sure 
 
 they will and then whoever will be watching I don't know. Probably I believe watching myself training so.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Ibrahimovic is Sweden, didn't qualify for the World Cup. Well, thanks so much for joining us. That was "Connect the World". I'm Lynda 
 
 Kinkade. Stick around; "One World" with Zain Asher is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END