Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Supreme Court Rules Title 42 Will Remain In Place For Now; Thousands More Flights Canceled Amid Airlines Struggles; Buffalo Snowmobilers Step Up During Massive Storm; Countries Impose Restrictions on Chinese Visitors; China Scrapping Quarantines for Inbound Travelers from January 8th; After High-Profile Visa Ban, Djokovic Welcomed Back to Australia; Sparkly Makeover for Time Square's New Year's Eve Ball. Aired 2-2:45a ET

Aired December 28, 2022 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:30]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church.
 
Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. Hanging in the balance. Controversial U.S. border restriction Title 42 is here to stay for now at least. Reaction from the U.S.-Mexico border.
 
Stranded by Southwest Airlines. Thousands of flights have been grounded. The CEO's message for travelers.
 
And from one extreme to another. Why warmer weather could actually be bad news for the United States.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us. Well, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled to keep Title 42 temporarily in place while legal challenges play out. It's preventing the Biden administration from winding down the Trump era border policy of the 19 republican-led states filed a lawsuit saying this will result in a migration catastrophe.
 
Title 42 allows border agents to turn away migrants in the name of COVID prevention and with no clarity on when it will be lifted. Thousands of migrants at America's southern border are wondering when they'll be able to seek asylum. Although disappointed with the outcome, the White House says it will comply with the ruling.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The court is not going to decided until June apparently and, in the meantime, we have to enforce it but I think it's overdue.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And CNN is covering all angles of this story. Leyla Santiago has reaction from migrants at the border. But first let's go to Priscilla Alvarez in Washington. The details on the Supreme Court ruling.
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: The Supreme Court said that a public health authority known as Title 42 will remain in effect on the U.S.-Mexico border while legal challenges play out. The 54 order is a victory for republican-led states who sought to intervene in the case and block the termination of Title 42. It ultimately means that this authority which was invoked at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic will remain in effect for several more months.
 
The White House responded to the order saying that they will comply with it but they also pointed the finger at congress saying that it is on them to pass immigration reform. They also made their position clear saying "Title 42" is a public health measure, not an immigration enforcement measure and it should not be extended indefinitely. Now immigrant advocates and groups have been trying to disseminate information to migrants as to what the Supreme Court said on Tuesday.
 
But they say this will ultimately put migrants in harm's way as they continue to wait and Mexico legal attorney at the ACLU said that he is "deeply disappointed by the Supreme Court's ruling." The White House and the Biden administration saying that they will continue to put preparations in place for whenever this authority may end.
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, Washington.
 
LEYLA SANTIAGO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: There was a bit of a disappointing mood in conversations that I had with many of the migrants here. There was one mother who told me she was fleeing violence in Venezuela and she took months bringing herself as well as her two young children including a toddler all the way here said that they had been robbed in Mexico and that her intention had been to cross into the U.S. legally but because of title 42 she was sent back.
 
So, hearing that that remains in place for many of these migrants, not just this mother. Many of the migrants we spoke to kind of echoed that same sentiment because as you can see behind me, these are migrants that have nowhere to go at this time. The city says that they have capacity at shelters, but many of these migrants say that they fear getting on any sort of bus not knowing exactly where they will end up.
 
Not having trust in any sort of individual who may be trying to help them. So, the city is saying that this is an issue trying to find a place where they can put some of the migrants that have come up that are refusing to go into shelters and staying on the sidewalk here where you will see children and toddlers under blankets sleeping overnight. The other big thing that the city is also continuing to do is they are moving ahead with their contingency plans.
 
They are working on two vacant schools to serve as potential shelters in the future because despite this decision from the Supreme Court that keeps Title 42 in place, they still expect to have a lot of migrants because of what they're seeing across the border.
 <br>[02:05:17]
 
Seeing a lot of migrants just waiting for their moment to enter into the U.S. whenever that may be. I did speak to one shelter, who said to me, an organizer at one of the shelters who said that he too was disappointed with this decision saying that this is something that could extend the bottleneck that they're seeing and put unsustainable pressure on law enforcement on the border. But for republicans, this is a win.
 
The republican states that escalated this legal fight. This is a win for them. Governor Greg Abbott here in Texas was very quick to tweet when this was announced. Leyla Santiago, CNN, El Paso, Texas.
 
CHURCH: Airlines have already canceled at least 2700 flights in the U.S. for the day ahead. And the overwhelming majority are from Southwest Airlines. The weather was initially to blame but many are now pointing the finger at Southwest aggressive flight scheduling and outdated infrastructure. The company is apologizing but says it will take several days to get back on track.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOB JORDAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SOUTHWEST AIRLINES: I want everyone who is dealing with the problems we've been facing whether you haven't been able to get to where you need to go or you're one of our heroic employees caught up in a massive effort to stabilize the airline to know is that we're doing everything we can to return to a normal operation. And please also hear that I'm truly sorry.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: More now from CNN's Lucy Kafanov reporting from Denver, Colorado.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Unfortunately, our next available seats for rebooking on the 31st and beyond.
 
LUCY KAFANOV, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): It's another day of travel chaos.
 
DANIEL MARQUEZ, PASSENGER: Every flight is canceled. So, I don't know when I go back home. 
 
KAFANOV: Another day of flight cancellations delays and frayed nerves.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEFMALE: Phone calls are busy, you can't get a hold of anybody. It's awful. 
 
KAFANOV: Exhausted passengers braving long lines only to receive more bad news.
 
STEVAM PEREZ, SOUTHWEST PASSENGER: Because they said even if you go through this line, it might be up to new years to get a flight.
 
KAFANOV: Travelers on Southwest bearing the brunt of the post- Christmas cancellations, many stranded until the new year.
 
MANDI ANGELO, SOUTHWEST PASSENGER: The next flight that was offered was in January, and they couldn't even get us home back to Pittsburgh.
 
KAFANOV: Southwest CEO Bob Jordan warned of more tough days ahead. According to a transcript of a company-wide message CNN has obtained while Chief Operating Officer Andrew Watterson said the airlines systems were unable to match available crews to available aircraft. And it had to be done by hand.
 
PETE BUTTIGIEG, UNITED STATES TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: From what I can tell Southwest is unable to locate even where their own crews are, let alone their own passengers, let alone baggage. Their system really has completely melted down. And I made clear that our department will be holding them accountable for their responsibilities to customers, both to get them through this situation and to make sure that this can't happen again.
 
LYN MONTGOMERY, PRESIDENT, TWU LOCAL 556: This is a deep failure of management not to have supported its I.T. infrastructure. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEFMALE: So, I don't know where my luggage is at.
 
KAFANOV: The travel chaos leaving mountains of lost luggage.
 
In Las Vegas, a sea of unclaimed bags. Some passengers told it would be days before they can get their luggage. Denver's airport leading the nation in terms of delays and cancellations. Passenger Nick Favazza has been stuck here since December 21st.
 
NICK FAVAZZA, SOUTHWEST PASSENGER: I will never fly Southwest Airlines again and I will tell anyone I know never to fly Southwest Airlines again.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEFMALE: Why is that? Why do you want to do different?
 
FAVAZZA: I mean, you just can't leave people stranded for eight days and just say it's the weather when it's not the weather.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
KAFANOV: Denver airport hit hard by the delays on the cancellations. And although there's not a lot of folks behind me in line at the Southwest ticket counter, the problems are far from over for Southwest that company's airline CEO Bob Jordan releasing an apology video saying that the plans for the next few days include flying a reduced schedule, adding that the company is optimistic that it will be back on track for next week.
 
Lucy Kafanov, CNN, Denver.
 
CHURCH: The devastating winter storm hammering the Northeastern U.S. is over. But the country is where the worries are not. Millions of people out west and now under flood watches and high wind alerts and Western New York is still a mess.
 
CNN meteorologist Tom Sater has the forecast.
 
TOM SATER, CNN METEOROLOGIST: From one weather extreme to another, as fast as the temperatures drop, they're warming up. High temperatures today. Still hold enough for the snowpack to hang around. Chicago 24, St. Louis, the freezing mark, Buffalo, only 24 degrees. 
 <br>[02:10:06]
 
But look at Denver already a high of 60 today. Rapid City 57. Overnight they had a windchill of minus 10 degrees. Snowpack across the U.S. and of course in Canada still very high and getting heavier in the mountains from British Columbia down to the central Rockies. A lot of snow in the upper Midwest. Winnipeg picked up 200 centimeters of snow. That's the earliest they picked up that much snow.
 
And then you get into Ontario but of course, travel bans still in place in and around Buffalo. The governor of New York has opened up the freeways, thank goodness, but the only advisory in it is just an advisory is Watertown and the surrounding counties. The Warm up begins but with problems. We're not going to see temperatures warm up and refreeze. They get up above freezing in Buffalo and stay that way.
 
But however, rain comes in Saturday, Sunday and Monday. And with this massive warm up coming of course the flood problems we could see with ice jamming. The drainage areas, we can see the water main breaks and that could be a big problem. But above average, about much above average for the East is staggering. Out to the West however, the first in a series of storms have moved in.
 
Heavy mountain snow, heavy coastal rain, about 100,000 lost power in coastal areas of Oregon because trees are down, winds are so high. But this atmospheric river is like a fire hose. Again, it's not one system. It's a series of them. This is a multiday event that will see this atmospheric river plow into the area. With all the fires we've had out west, burn scars could really create some debris flows.
 
But it's going to be flash flooding, as heavy rain already in San Francisco was sliding down toward L.A. all the way to the Mexican border. But it's the high mountain snowfall from the front range of the Rockies where the advisories and already the warnings are in place. Excessive rainfall from coastal areas of the Pacific Northwest all the way down into Southern California. So, big travel problems here. Flash flooding is going to be a big concern.
 
And when you look at the New Year's Day in the first week of the 2023, above average precipitation which is good news although it comes with the flip side, and even though temperatures are warmer in the east. It's rain for most locations which is good news for everyone. Back to you.
 
CHURCH: Thanks for that. And back in Buffalo, New York. Rescue crews have been doing welfare checks on people stranded by the blizzard. And they're getting a hand from a group of snowmobilers. The Hamburg Snowmobile Club has been delivering critical supplies to residents in areas hard to reach ever since Christmas Eve. The snowmobilers stepped up after Buffalo Police asked for help with search and recovery efforts. 
 
The group's vice president says they delivered more than 100 meals in four hours on Monday. Members also pulled vehicles out of ditches and got nurses to and from work.
 
Well, the warming temperatures will bring some relief to the snow weary city. But Buffalo's troubles are far from over. CNN's Miguel Marquez shows us the situation on the ground.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARK POLONCARZ, ERIE COUNTY EXECUTIVE: Please, please, you heard the mayor beg, I'm begging, stay home.
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Erie County officials over it calling in help to keep non-essential drivers off the road.
 
POLONCARZ: One hundred Military Police are being brought in as well as additional troops from the New York State Police Department are coming in to manage traffic control because it has become so evident that too many people are ignoring the ban.
 
MARQUEZ: The death toll continuing to rise more than 30 dead in Buffalo and the surrounding area.
 
CRYSTAL RODRIGUEZ-DABNEY, DEPUTY MAYOR OF BUFFALO, NEW YORK: Some are sad stories of carbon monoxide poisoning. Some are in vehicles, and sadly some are outside. We have snow banks and some of our first responders are not hopeful about what we're going to find once those snow banks are cleared.
 
MARQUEZ: The storm blowing through record snow falls in an area accustom to snow.
 
It's the front of our house. We are buried. I can't make it to the front door.
 
As of Tuesday morning, Buffalo snow total for the season came to exactly 100 inches.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Here's what it looks like outside our front door. One, two, three. Oh.
 
MARQUEZ: That's the fastest the city has ever reached 100 inches of snow with records that date back to the 1880s.
 
MARY MCGORRAY, BUFFALO RESIDENT: I would definitely classify this as the worst storm that I've ever seen in the entire upstate New York.
 
MARQUEZ: The snowplows running 24 hours a day but the Buffalo Niagara International Airport remains close. Too much snow. It might reopen Wednesday.
 
JULIA HALL, BUFFALO RESIDENT: People were not fully prepared and it all happened so quickly. And it was about big drifts of snow and gust.
 
MARQUEZ: Miguel Marquez, CNN, Buffalo, New York.
 <br>[02:15:02]
 
CHURCH: A high-profile Russian opposition leader is speaking out from prison. We'll tell you the claims Alexei Navalny is making through a series of tweets. 
 
Plus, a congressman-elect faces fallout after admitting to lying about his background and work experience. The latest on the George Santos scandal just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: In Ukraine, Russian shelling hit a hospital maternity ward in the southern city of Kherson on Tuesday. That is according to an aide to Ukraine's president. They say doctors managed to complete a cesarean section just before the attack and "miraculously no one was injured." Shelling also reportedly hit infrastructure and other parts of the Kherson region causing civilian casualties.
 
And this comes as the U.N. Human Rights Office says at least 6800 civilians have been killed since Russia's invasion began. The office says it believes the actual figures are considerably higher.
 
Meanwhile, Ukraine's prime minister says power outages are decreasing as critical infrastructure repairs are streamlined. But the country's energy minister says the situation remains "really difficult." Ukraine's military reports heavy fighting in the country's east. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said the situation there is difficult and painful. That pain is being felt in Kyiv where Ukrainians gathered to pay their respects to a fallen soldier killed on the frontlines.
 
CNN's Will Ripley has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): So many tears for yet another victim of Russia's war in Ukraine. Mourners in Kyiv, paying their final respects to a fallen Ukrainian soldier, a husband, brother and son. He was reportedly killed near Bakhmut.
 
Intense fighting has the city almost unrecognizable. Debris litters the streets. Buildings are on fire.
 
OLEKSANDER, BAKHMUT RESIDENT (through translator): Our house is destroyed. There's a shop near a building now it's not there anymore.
 
RIPLEY: In this besieged city across the country, millions are still living without power. Ukraine accuses Russia of persistently targeting Ukrainian energy facilities, giving engineers little time to repair the grid before the next strike comes. Ukraine's energy minister describes the situation across his country as really difficult. Strikes have left Ukraine with a power deficit, unable to meet the basic energy needs of the country. Fears are growing among Ukrainian officials. 
 <br>[02:20:00]
 
Moscow could be planning large strikes around New Year's Day. In this small village near Kherson people are bracing for a bitterly cold winter. A winter without power, collecting firewood and other supplies to protect against plummeting temperatures.
 
TETYANA KOVALIVA, KHERSON REGION RESIDENT (through translator): We will get through the winter because we fix the chimney and now we can heat the house. We will get to it. We do not have any other option. Where would we go?
 
RIPLEY: On top of all this a war of words brewing between Moscow and Kyiv. Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov issuing an ultimatum. Ukraine must bow to Russia's demands, including giving up occupied Ukrainian territories or else the Russian army will take matters into its own hands. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says that won't happen. He's vowing to retake all captured Ukrainian ground.
 
Diplomatic negotiations seem just as gridlocked as the battlefield. Little sign of peace coming this holiday season and a conflict that continues to grind on.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Lviv, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny says he is being injected with an unknown drug while being held in a high security prison. He made the claims in a series of tweets. Joining us now from London is Clare Sebastien. Good morning to you, Clare. So, what more are you learning about Alexei Navalny his claims, and of course, the conditions he's dealing with right now in prison?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Well, I mean, on the subject of his health, Rosemary, don't forget it was just over two years ago that he was poisoned with a nerve agent called Novichok took five months to recover from that, on his return to Russia immediately put in prison. And we've been hearing from him and his supporters that his conditions have been deteriorating over the last few months.
 
In June, he was moved to a high security facility. In November, he reported being put in a cell type room, so not the usual barracks in his penal colony. And he says now that he is made to sit on a stool for 16 hours a day or the floor, presumably, but that is contributing to worsening back problems. Have a look at this tweet as part of the series of tweets he put out. He said, see how the system works when you're not allowed to beat up a person but your leadership ordered you to hurt them badly.
 
For example, He says, I have a problem with my spine. It is clear what one has to do to make the problem worse, keep me immobile as much as possible, making the point that they are using his health as a way to pressure him. He said that he asked to see a doctor, he had to file a request for that it took a month and a half the person arrived. He wasn't allowed to see his diagnosis. He then had to file another request for his medical records.
 
During that time he was also he says injected with an unknown substance. He asked what it was and was sort of given a vague answer that it was B vitamins, but it did nothing to help him. He says he'll continue to fight if necessary, in the courts. And he continues to do of course what the Russian government does not want him to do which is speak out via social media against his conditions in prison and against the war in Ukraine which we should note, Rosemary, has gone hand in hand with an intensifying crackdown on free speech and dissent inside Russia.
 
CHURCH: All right. Clare Sebastian, many thanks. Joining us live from London. Well, the year ahead comes with no shortage of diplomatic challenges. Russia's invasion of Ukraine, tensions with China and the climate crisis will all be in focus. CNN International diplomatic editor Nic Robertson has a preview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: This year's war in Ukraine, the biggest land war in Europe since 1945 is both a symptom of diplomacy as limits and a harbinger of potential decay to come. Russian President Vladimir Putin's unprovoked aggression is yet to be tamed by sanction for reason, despite diplomatic outreach.
 
OLAF SCHOLZ, CHANCELLOR OF GERMANY (through translator): I believe it's right to have constant discussions. There must be a moment where Russia realizes that it needs to get out of this situation.
 
ROBERTSON: China's Xi Jinping who's increasingly bellicose diplomacy defying claims to Taiwan is watching Ukraine. Learning possible international limits on his own potential land grab. 
 
Scholz, who is picking up his predecessor Angela Merkel's peacemaking mantle, use his recent visit to Beijing to try to shut down Russia's war and head off one over Taiwan.
 
SCHOLZ: It is important for China to use its influence on Russia. It is about principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity.
 
ROBERTSON: 2022 has tested diplomacy more than any other year in decades.
 <br>[02:25:02]
 
On the upside, democracies have risen to the challenge. Diplomatic unity in the face of Russian aggression.
 
EMMANUEL MACRON, PRESIDENT OF FRANCE (through translator): As more returns to European soil, we need to become brothers in arms once more.
 
ROBERTSON: On the downside, it shown diplomatic words alone won't work, they need to be backed by military muscle.
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: What happens at the negotiating table depends on what happens on the battlefield. Therefore, the best way to increase the chances for a peaceful solution is to support Ukraine. We will not back down.
 
ROBERTSON: The past year is setting the stage for diplomatic storms to come.
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): We will defend ourselves with all available means at our disposal.
 
ROBERTSON: Putin continues to tease the threat of a nuclear strike, potentially taking diplomacy in 2023 to its limits.
 
FERNANDO ARIAS, DIRECTOR GENERAL, THE ORGANIZATION FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS: It does exacerbate that existing tensions to a point where unity of the international community cannot be presumed.
 
ROBERTSON: Add to this, the increasing tensions with China and 2023 is shaping up to be an even greater challenge than 2022.
 
RISHI SUNAK, PRIME MINISTER OF UNITED KINGDOM: We recognize China poses a systemic challenge to our values and interests. A challenge that grows more acute as it moves towards even greater authoritarianism.
 
ROBERTSON: Paradoxically, another growing challenge, climate change, perhaps offers a way out of the downward diplomatic spiral. A need to combat global warming together.
 
JOHN KERRY, UNITED STATES CLIMATE ENVOY: Without China, even if the U.S. is as we are moving towards a 1.5 degree program, which we are, if we don't have China, nobody else can make to that goal.
 
ROBERTSON: As with previous years, 2023 will offer opportunity to develop diplomatic off ramps, perhaps none more poignant than the G7 to be hosted by Japan in Hiroshima. There'll be another climate summit too, but as this year has COP 27 in Egypt showed during global economic hardship, domestic politics, Trump, collective salvation.
 
The G20 in India could be a place where compromises are made. The war in Ukraine would be in its 19th month, and by then battlefield realities hard to ignore. Despite Putin's new threats of a long war.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: This will end and it will end almost certainly with diplomacy within negotiation. But what I think we have to see is a just and durable piece, not a phony piece.
 
ROBERTSON: So, the big diplomatic question for 2023, how to get Putin to agree. The answer may lie and the soaring food and energy costs triggered by the war. If the global situation worsens, collective pressure for some kind of peace will increase. The test of 2023 what to do if Putin ignores the warnings.
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) CHURCH: Still to come. Fresh details in the January 6 Committee's investigation into the U.S. Capitol attack. What we're learning from newly released witness interview transcripts.
 
Plus, COVID outbreaks and China have other countries worried the virus may spread across their borders. The new measures they're enforcing to slow the spread when we return.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  As Beijing continues to peel away layers of COVID restrictions, other countries are taking precautions to make sure the incoming travelers are not bringing the virus with them. All travelers from China will be tested for the virus upon entering Japan and India, and will have to quarantine if they test positive. India has expanded the restriction beyond just the mainland China. Also, requiring anyone coming from Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, or Thailand to undergo testing. Italian officials are also testing every traveler from China who comes through the Milan Malpensa International Airport in the north.
 
Well, the change in China's restrictions also means some Chinese citizens will finally be able to return home after years away due to the pandemic. CNN's Selina Wang has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  The world's harshest quarantine is no more. As COVID sweeps through China, the country is scrapping quarantines for inbound travelers from January 8th and promising to gradually restart outbound tourism. Since the start of the pandemic, China has severely limited who can go in and out of the country. Drastically cutting the number of flights and forcing all incoming arrivals into government facilities.
 
I went through multiple quarantines in China this year, lasting as long as 21 days. There's no choice in where you go or what room you get. Once the doors closed. You can only open them for COVID tests and food pickups. Workers sprayed disinfectant in the hallways every few hours. Food deliver is not allowed. But breakfast, lunch, and dinner are part of quarantine fees. All of that is now soon going away. It's a huge relief for Chinese nationals living overseas like this woman in New York City.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I really want to go back to my home immediately. And right now, I am very emotional. I'm always -- almost in tears right now.
 
WANG (on camera):  When's the last time you went to China?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Four years before. I lost several of my family members during the pandemic. I lost my beloved golden retriever. I feel like I missed everything.
 
WANG:  How is your family doing now in China?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Right now, almost everyone got COVID. And they are suffering. Once my grandpa gave me a video call, I cried so badly.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
At that moment, I even don't know if I will get a chance to see him. He just got COVID and I hope he will be OK.
 
WANG (voiceover):  On Chinese social media, people have been sharing everything they lost during three years of border controls while they were stuck out of their home country. One writes, I received the bad news of my father's unexpected death while I was in a quarantine hotel. But I could not go back to see him for the last time. Another writes, because of the pandemic, I did not even know my grandma passed away. And I heard it from my mother a month later.
 
This new change finally ends China's ban on nonessential travel for citizens.
 
I feel like the pandemic is finally over. The travel plans are made three years ago may finally become a reality, she says.
 
It's exciting news for potential travelers. But at home, the country is struggling to grapple with an explosion in COVID cases.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The hospital is just overwhelmed from top to bottom. There was no preparation. Like, nobody knew, you know, there's no stockpiling of medications.
 
WANG (voiceover):  This viral video in the Southern City of Guangzhou shows a man kneeling on the ground at a fever clinic, breaking down, and begging the nurse to let him see the doctor after waiting for hours.
 
Fever and cold medicine are nearly impossible to get at drugstores across the country. Antivirals are also extremely hard to get. But in a major move, Beijing has announced it's going to start distributing Paxlovid to community health centers in the coming days.
 
So, there is chaos and confusion. But with zero-COVID in the past, finally there is light at the end of the tunnel. Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Tennis star, Novak Djokovic, is back on Australia. Almost a year after he was deported for not being vaccinated against COVID-19. The Serbian world number five is getting ready for a tournament next week in Adelaide, as well as next month's Australian Open. Djokovic was allowed back into the country after the government recently overturned the decision to cancel his visa. Australia's strict COVID policies have since been lifted.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CRAIG TILEY, TENNIS AUSTRALIA CEO:  Well, Novak, the nine-time champion, we welcome you back to Australia. I have a great deal of confidence in the Australian public. And it -- we have -- we have very well-educated sport in public. Particularly those that come to tennis, they love tennis, they love seeing great -- greatness. They love seeing great athleticism, great matches. And I have got a lot of confidence that the fans will react like we hope they would react and have respect for that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Djokovic is seeking his tenth Australian Open title more than anyone else in history. He's also hoping to tie Rafael Nadal's record 22 Grand Slam wins.
 
New Year's Eve is right around the corner and one of the most iconic symbols of the holiday has gotten a sparkly new makeover. We will take a look, that is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:40:00]
 
CHURCH:  As the countdown to the New Year begins, the New Year's Eve ball in Times Square is getting a sparkly makeover. Almost 200 new Waterford crystal triangles have been added to the ball. Each one of them cut by hand. This year's theme is cut on both sides of the panes.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TOM BRENNAN, MASTER ARTISAN, WATERFORD CRYSTAL:  Each and every year, a brand-new theme, a brand-new cut pattern, and this is actually one of the triangles here from this ball behind. So, I can't drop this because it's going to go up right here. As you can see these intertwining beautiful love hearts on this cut on both sides designed by Irish craftsman. And this is what's special about this and this is part of this brand-new theme, the greatest gift, the gift of love.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And for the first time since before the pandemic, revelers in Times Square can ring in the new year with no COVID restrictions.
 
And you can celebrate the new year this weekend with CNN International. We will feature special coverage from across Asia, Africa, Europe, Latin America, the United States, and even the metaverse, as the world welcomes in 2023 with New Year's Eve alive. Starting in Asia, New Years' Eve live will follow the sunset as celebrations peak in major cities around the globe, beginning at midnight in Sidney, that's 9:00 p.m. Saturday in Hong Kong, 8:00 a.m. eastern time. And CNN's coverage here in the United States kicks off with Anderson Cooper and Andy Cohen at 8:00 pm eastern time on New Year's Eve.
 
Thanks so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. For our international viewers, World Sport is up next. And for those of you here in the United States, I'll be right back with more news. Do stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[02:45:00]