Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: New Year's Eve Celebrations Across The World With Special Live Global Coverage; Ukraine Wins Eurovision Song Contest In Wave Of Goodwill Following Invasion By Russia; New Year's Eve Celebrations Across The World; Geena Davis Welcomes 2023 With CNN; Craig David And CNN Ring In The New Year At Twickenham Film Studios; London Counting Down To 2023. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired December 31, 2022 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[17:57:24]
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN's New Year's Eve Live. I am Christina Macfarlane in London on the banks of the River Thames behind me, where thousands of people you can't see them, I can are lining up here, preparing to ring in the New Year. 
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR: At CNN's world headquarters in Atlanta, where we are counting down to 2023. Good to have you with us.
 
Well, this hour we will take you live to Lagos, Nigeria, Paris, France, where our CNN correspondents will bring in the New Year with all the lights, the confetti, the fireworks that you can imagine.
 
But first, I want to return now to Christina in London as we count down. Christina is certainly looking spectacular behind you. You are one of some hundred thousand people there on the banks of the Thames. 
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, that's right, Lynda. The party has definitely started. You probably hear we've been dancing along to music for the past 3 hours. There's about, I don't know, couple of thousands, 50,000 people around me already. Tonight, as we count down to midnight, some of the world's biggest cities, not just here, but around the world, are about to ring in New Year.
 
We have Berlin, Rome, Madrid, Amsterdam, among those just moments away from 2023. And we're going to be going live to Paris and Lagos to see the celebrations there.
 
And let's of course, start in Lagos, Nigeria. Our Stephanie Busari is celebrating the New Year there as we count down. Now Stephanie, I'm seeing 1 minute and 15 seconds on the clock. What have people been telling you tonight about their hopes and dreams for 2023? 
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR, AFRICA: Yes, I mean, people are really just hoping to put 2022 behind them. It's no secret that this was a tough year all around the world. The cost of living rose very dramatically in this part of the world. And many people are just hoping to put that behind them, to cut loose tonight, actually, what some people are telling me. Cut loose, celebrate, party hard, and then hope that 2023 will be a better year. And, of course, Nigeria is having crucial elections next year, in February, in a few minutes, next year.
 <br>[18:00:00]
 
And they're hoping that election will bring the change that they desperately need. You can see the fireworks behind me now. We're coming into 2023. In one minute, we're coming into 2023. It will be Happy New Year from Lagos. Five, four, three, two, one. Happy New Year.
 
Wow. Wow. Amazing. 
 
MACFARLANE: You have been watching the fireworks since the breaking out on New Year's in Lagos and Paris simultaneously. 
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
But let's get back to our Stephanie Busari, who is in the heart of Lagos. Stephanie, Happy New Year, my friend. Stunning fireworks display.
 
BUSARI: Happy New Year.
 
MACFARLANE: How does it feel to what people responding around you? I think Stephanie's having little bits of trouble hearing us. No wonder why. Stephanie, can you hear us? Tell us how you're feeling, what you're seeing?
 
BUSARI: It's very exciting. Stunning display of fireworks just then. I don't know if you saw that, but people they're just so much happiness. People are hugging, shouting, Happy New Year too to the car horns. There's a lot of hope, there's a lot of joy on the streets of Lagos tonight. And Happy New Year to you, Christina. 
 
MACFARLANE: All right, Stephanie there live for us in Lagos. Happy New Year to you. Let's check out the partying happening in Paris right now, where our Melissa Bell is joining us from the glittery French capital. Melissa, we're seeing 2023 up in lights there on the three arms. What is it like to see all of that clamic up close? 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN PARIS CORRESPONDENT: Just beautiful, Christina. It is the first time in more than two years that the French and all the Tories gathered here in Paris tonight have been able to see that, that fireworks display at the Champs-Elysees (ph) is absolutely spectacular. Paris, 2023. There it is up on the Arc, that fireworks display more than 3,000 of them launch here at the end of the Champs- Elysees (ph) tonight.
 
Half a million people down there to watch it and you can hear them. The excitement is palpable. They've been gathering for several hours. And again, it had been so long since we'd have been able to see it, since the famous fireworks of Champs-Elysees (ph) had been out there. Listen to the crowds, there's music, there's lights, there's the fireworks and all the joy of the new year. The end of two years of no fireworks, two years of COVID restrictions, and you can really feel the happiness out there. An absolutely beautiful firework to say here in Paris tonight.
 
All that joy of putting all of that behind us and looking ahead to the New Year. Of course, a lot of security down there, but a lot of people having a great time, Christina, and the party here on the Champs- Elysees is expected to last for several hours still as people look ahead to 2023 and just celebrate the fact that we're here. Happy New Year, Christina. 
 
MACFARLANE: Happy New Year, Melissa. We, of course, have some big events coming up in France in the year ahead. I'm thinking more sporting wise. We have the Men's Rugby World Cup happening in France next September. What other big major events can we look ahead to next year or this year where you are? 
 
BELL: Well, there will be a lot to look forward to, of course, a long time the crowds were here on the Champs-Elysees (ph) as a World Cup. I can tell you the mood was not as it is tonight. They were devastated their loss. Tonight it is all about joy and really looking ahead to that. We'll have to wait until 2024 for the Olympics here. For now, it is just 2023. And the end of the loss of the World Cup, the end of the COVID restrictions, and looking ahead to where this new year is going to bring. 
 
MACFARLANE: It is absolutely stunning to see the scene play out behind you there, Melissa. I tell you, London has got its work cut out for it tonight. Thank you so much for bringing us that, Melissa. Happy New Year to you and your crew there on the Champs-Elysees. We absolutely love to see it.
 
And among the cities sitting 2023 in less than an hour from now will be Lisbon and Dublin. And of course, there are huge celebrations to come right here in London. Thousands upon thousands of people here are lining the streets waiting for Big Ben to strike 12. I can see it just over to the left hand corner here. The huge moon clock looking down on us. Of course, the fireworks are going to be surrounding the London Eye just behind me, as well as Big Ben as a tumultuous. I think we can say for sure 2022 winds down.
 
Earlier, I got a chance to speak with London's mayor Sadiq Khan, who talks to me about what we can expect from next hour's fireworks. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SADIQ KHAN, LONDON MAYOR: If you think this is great, you went to the fireworks begin tonight. One of the best fireworks our cities ever had. They're the biggest fireworks in Europe, I think the best our cities ever seen. We've got more than 12 minutes of fireworks. More than 12,000 fireworks were using. 12 minutes of amazing music. I can confirm on CNN exclusively there is some Neil Diamond as well. 
 <br>[18:10:09]
 
MACFARLANE: Neil Diamond. My mum will be so happy. KHAN: You can guess the song company in the fireworks has become now
 
 almost anthem for our sports. We'll be celebrating many great events over the last year. That includes us winning Lioness, winning the football will be celebrating 50 years of pride in London. We'll be sending a message of solidarity to our friends in Ukraine. And there are one or two surprises I can't reveal, even to CNN. 
 
MACFARLANE: For you personally, as mayor and for the capital, what has been the most significant moment, would you say, looking back on '22? 
 
KHAN: Well, it's been a tough year. We lost our queen. That's a big deal. I mean, we celebrated her being a mullet (ph) for 70 years and then she passed away shortly after that. But I think the way our city and country came together for a funeral was our country at its best. It showed the world at Queen univis (ph) us and you saw the smooth transition to King Charles III.
 
We also saw, actually, some of the worst of our country, with three prime ministers in one year. We became almost a laughingstock around the world, but also saw some great things about our city coming together. 50 years of pride. It's a big, big deal. We can celebrate who we are. You know, it's really important that people are free to love who they want to love. We celebrate in 50 years of pride in our city.
 
We're going through a cost that live in crisis, but you've seen the best of our city, families coming together, businesses coming together, and we look forward to a successful 2023, the coronation of King Charles III, but also how we can have a city recovering after the trauma of two, three years of a pandemic. 
 
MACFARLANE: Mayor, I have to ask, as it's New Year's, do you believe in New Year's resolutions? Will you be making any for 2023? 
 
KHAN: Yes, I make the same resolutions each year, and the trick is to see how far I can go before I break them. And the two resolutions I'm making this year, the same ones I've made, I think, for the last few years, which is, you know, less coffee, more exercise, and it does work for a few days, a few weeks. This year, I'm hoping I can get to summer. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: Our thanks again to Sadiq Khan, the Mayor of London, and good luck to him with his New Year's resolution. All right. Coming up next, Ukraine's Eurovision Song Content winner this past year helped to illuminate the country's fierce fighting birth. Next, we'll speak to the musicians whose song became anthem for a free Ukraine. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
THOMAS PESQUET, ASTRONAUT, EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY: My hope for 2023 is more international cooperation to fight climate change. My name is Thomas Pesquet, and I've seen the Earth from space for 200 days on board the International Space Station. There is unlimited beauty on our own planet, from the blue waters of the Caribbean to the lushtime Masonian Forest or the white peaks of the Himalayas.
 <br>[18:15:02]
 
But there's also visible signs of climate change. Melting glaciers, water or air pollution. Extreme weather events like more frequent hurricanes or more devastating wildfires. The Earth itself is a spaceship traveling around the sun in the emptiness of space, and we all are its crew. Like for a spaceship, we must make sure everyone gets along on board. We must use the resources widely and take care of our planet for the next generation. Climate change is global, so let's unite around the world and fight it together. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: Victory and the return of peace. That is Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy's wish in his New Year's Eve message. After almost a year of war, while much of the world celebrates, much of Ukraine is sheltering as air raid sirens began sounding again shortly after midnight tonight.
 
In 2022, Ukraine won the Eurovision Song Contest with the Kalush Orchestra's song Stefania. The band seamlessly blends rap with Ukrainian folk music, using traditional instruments and motifs to make ear catching addictive and moving music. I had a chance to speak to Kalush founder and frontman Oleh Psiuk about what Stefania and Ukrainian music in general means to his country right now.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Oleh, you wrote your song, Stefania, before the war in tribute to your mother, but now, of course, it's taken on a deeper meaning. What does it come to symbolize to the people of Ukraine? 
 
OLEH PSIUK, FOUNDER AND FRONTMAN, KALUSH (through translator): For me, it will always be a song about my mom and was above all dedicated to my mom. Yes, it was a song about my mom, which then passed our national selection and later won Eurovision. When the full scale war happened, this song was everywhere to hear. We call it the anthem of our war. 
 
MACFARLANE (voiceover): He says winning Eurovision was a victory for all of Ukraine. 
 
PSIUK (through translator): It was the same in Lviv. I mean, for all of Ukraine it was a celebration, a great victory that cheered everyone up. 
 
MACFARLANE (on camera): You have been making a lot of new music, I understand, back in Ukraine. How difficult has it been to be creative when you're living and working in a war zone? 
 
PSIUK (through translator): At first, after the start of the full scale war, it was very difficult to gather ourselves and understand what to write and how to write at this time. But then we realized that we needed to write and support people in any case, so we've already somehow got accustomed to it. 
 
MACFARLANE (voiceover): As Putin tries to destroy Ukraine and its culture, Oleh says the work of every musician has taken on more meaning. 
 
PSIUK (through translator): I think this is a valuable contribution, both ours and that of every Ukrainian performer, musician, artist. What's very important is that we see our culture has really taken off and this is good. We hope that this is just the beginning and that our culture will be even bigger and shared even more widely around the world. 
 
MACFARLANE: Kalush's rap and folk music lit up the stages at Glastonbury and the MTV Europe Music Awards this year, and they have big plans for what's next. 
 
MACFARLANE (on camera): If there was one artist in the world that you would like to collaborate with musically, who would it be? 
 
PSIUK (through translator): We want to work with Eminem. I'm not joking. I'm a fan of his, and I've always wanted to do it. So if he happens to come to you, ask him to get in touch. 
 
MACFARLANE: What message do you have from the people of Ukraine to the world as we look ahead to 2023? 
 
PSIUK (through translator): Our message is that every person can help us, not necessarily financially or whatever. One can help out with information, volunteer, or in some other way. If everyone makes at least some effort, this war will end sooner, because together we are strong. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: You know, it was so inspiring to see how Kalush Orchestra are trying to keep their culture alive for Ukraine, of course. The band, after we've finished recording that interview, wanted to sing their winning song, Stefania, just for us. Take a listen to this. 
 <br>[18:22:10]
 
A jam session in the kitchen of the hotel there. You know, it's a song that really haunts you and stays with you. Our thanks to Kalush Orchestra. You know, when Ukraine won the Eurovision Song Contest in 2022, it also won the right to host the competition in 2023. Of course, the war makes that impossible. So the UK whose song was the runoff in the competition will host the next contest in Liverpool on Ukraine's behalf. You can watch that here in the UK in May.
 
Now, coming up next on CNN's New Year's Eve Live. For decades, she has lit up movies and TV screens with her bright smile and humor. Now Geena Davis helps us bring in 2023. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:25:18] (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARK LEE, NCT 127: Our fans are really anticipating a repackage album and I feel like that's a perfect way to start off 2023 for us and our whole fans. I feel like it'll only just lead into more and more events and just more and more, you know, interactions that we can share with our fans. And we're always just eager to give our fans what we are always trying to do. Like we -- it's what we do best and so hopefully, we get to really meet their expectations as well. And I just hope that they enjoy the plans that we have for next year for them. Yes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: We are getting ready to say goodbye to 2022 and welcome in the New Year here in the UK. Many cities around the world are already basking in the New Year's low (ph). 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Happy New Year from Mombasa, Kenya. 
 
MACFARLANE: Mombasa put on a show on New Year's Eve celebrations. Revelers won't soon forget. It was one big gala. Bidding adieu to the old year and welcoming in the new. We also saw a dazzling celebration in the old city center in Brasov, Romania, ancient buildings were used as a backdrop of fireworks. Dazzled revelers starting the New Year off in spectacular fashion.
 
Just look at that. I will have a lot more in a moment, including a special performance from Craig David, no less. For now, let's hand it back to Lynda in our Atlanta studio. Lynda.
 
KINKADE: And I am really looking forward to that performance. Thanks so much, Christine. We will catch up with you very soon.
 
Well, my next guest needs no introduction, but we are going to give her one anyway. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'll have a Wild Turkey straight up and a Coke bag, please. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thelma.
 
UNIDETIFIED FEMALE: Oh what? Tell me something. This is my vocational, isn't it? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: I'm talking about Thelma, Sarah Thelma and Louise. The one and only Geena Davis. She is an Academy Award winning actress who can do it all comedy in Beetlejuice and A League of Their Own drama. In The Accidental Tourist, she played an assassin in the thriller The Long Kiss Goodnight. She is also a producer, an athlete and a mother. And she's a writer. Her memoir, Dying of Politeness published in October. She joined me to welcome in the New Year.
 
Geena Davis, it's an absolute honor to have you on the show. I am a huge fan. Happy New Year. 
 
GEENA DAVIS, AWARD-WINNING ACTOR: Happy New Year. Thank you. 
 
KINKADE: So, if you would allow me, I would love to wind back the clock and play one of my favorite films, A League of Their Own. Let's just play of that. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Want to play?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Huh?
 
UNIDETNIFIED FEMALE: You're going to have 14, 16 girls to a team. Some of you are going to have to go home.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Some of them are going home. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: You're not just a phenomenal actress, you're an incredible athlete. Was that discovered during the making of that film? 
 
DAVIS: You know what? Yes. Because I was -- my thing was always being the tallest kid and I was very physically shy, I would call it. And so I didn't want to try sports. But then I get cast in this part where I have to be the best baseball player ever and so I had to learn it and I turned out to be kind of good at it and it was like, wow, I'm athletic. It just took until I was 36 to find that out.
 
KINKADE: Yes. You went on to become a champion at archery. 
 
DAVIS: It got pretty good. Yes. 
 
KINKADE: Incredible. But you've been reflecting on your life in your new memoir, Dying of Politeness. Looking back at your incredible costars. Tom Hanks, Madonna, Samuel L. Jackson, Dustin Hoffman. Do you have a favorite and who gave you the best advice? 
 
DAVIS: Oh, well, let's see. My first job was on Tutsi when I worked with Dustin, and he was an incredible mentor. He decided he was going to teach me everything I needed to know about the business. And so that was fantastic. But working with Susan Sarandon really changed my life. Because I got to spend three months with someone who very naturally and easily said what she thought. And believe it or not, that was foreign to me. I was used to just being the main thing is for people to like you and don't ever have an opinion. 
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
KINKADE: Geena, I have heard some of your costars speak about movies they've been in with you. Like Samuel L. Jackson loves to re watch Long Kiss Goodnight. Are there any films that you've made that you like to rewatch? 
 
GEENA DAVIS, AWARD WINNING ACTOR: Oh, God, you know, it's embarrassing, but I've watched all of my movies multiple times. I can't believe how many times I've seen League of Their Own and Long Kiss Goodnight and Thelma and Louise. But -- so those are -- those are my favorite. But also, The Fly is really great to see in theater with people because all the screaming and people yelling in theater, don't go in there. He's a fly.
 
KINKADE: Do you have a favorite of all the films you've done? Not only to work on it, but to watch it? Like, is there a standout for you? 
 
DAVIS: I can't pick between Thelma and Louise and Long Kiss Goodnight. I mean, both of those roles were so incredible and the character changed so much in the course of just a few days. And I love them both equally. I can't pick which I like better. 
 
KINKADE: Worst made up story about Geena Davis going?
 
DAVIS: So, the worst made up thing is this list on IMDb. It's just a comment. It's not IMDb itself that lists all of these movies that I auditioned for but turned down, including Terminator and, you know, Fatal Attraction. And I auditioned for any of those. None of those. I didn't even hear about them until they came out. So that stuff is not true. 
 
KINKADE: What is Geena Davis watching in 2023? What are you looking forward to watching and reading? 
 
DAVIS: I'm really looking forward to seeing The Whale. I've heard so much about it. Babylon with my friend Brad Pitt in it. You know, I've seen lots of movies. I love to go to the movies already, but those are two that I'm really looking forward to. 
 
KINKADE: So do you go to a private theater when you go to the movies? Or do you get mobbed and just go (INAUDIBLE)? 
 
DAVIS: No, that's a whole other level of celebrity. But, you know, I get people who say, hey, aren't you Geena Davis or aren't you Julia Roberts? I've heard --
 
KINKADE: Oh wow. You both got these big miles. 
 
DAVIS: Yes, yes, we got big smiles. But no, if they don't know you're going to be there, it's just -- it's fine. 
 
KINKADE: And the hopes you've got for the next year, your own personal hopes, what do you want to achieve in 2023? 
 
DAVIS: I'd like to get more disciplined about my life. I sort of fell into very random patterns during COVID and all that where it didn't matter when I went to sleep or woke up because every day was blending into the next. And why not binge the entire series in one night? Because what difference does it make. I haven't really successfully got back into a normal rhythm, but I hope to this year. 
 
KINKADE: Well, what new days is complete without a champagne toast? Would you like to do the honors and pop the bottle? 
 
DAVIS: You want to always keep your hand on the cork so it doesn't pop unexpectedly. 
 
KINKADE: Happy New Year. 
 
DAVIS: Happy New Year. Hold on. You've been used to great. 
 
KINKADE: All right, I'll have some champagne. Thanks. 
 
DAVIS: Happy New Year, Lynda. 
 
KINKADE: Happy New Year, Geena. All the best for 2023. 
 
DAVIS: Thank you. 
 
KINKADE: The magic of television there absolute pleasure interviewing Geena Davis. Well, in 2022, many people were still reluctant to head back to theaters. But we got a lot of blockbusters like Top Gun Maverick, the long awaited second Avatar movie and Black Panther Wakanda Forever. Well, next year is shaping up to be another big year at the movies. Chloe Melas looks back and looks forward to what we will be watching in 2023. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER (voiceover): Nintendo fans are gearing up for the Super Mario Brothers movie set to release in April. Actor Chris Pratt is the voice of Mario in the new animated film based on the iconic video game. The famous plumber and his brother Luigi travel through the mushroom kingdom in a quest to save a captured princess. Other big names lending their voices to the film include Anya Taylor Joy, Jack Black and Seth Rogen. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hello. We come in peace. 
 
MELAS: Pratt also stars in the latest from Marvel Studios, Guardians of the Galaxy Volume 3 with writer director James Gunn bringing the Space trilogy to a close.
 <br>[18:35:08]
 
Star-Lord Peter Quill leads the ragtag Guardians on another dangerous mission to defend the universe. The film is set to release in May. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who is this man? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm her godfather. 
 
MELAS: Harrison Ford returns in June as the legendary archaeologist in Indiana Jones in The Dial of Destiny. It's been 15 years since we've seen Indie on the big screen, and Ford says this is the fifth and final installment of the film franchise. In his newest adventure, Indie takes on former Nazis in an effort to help the U.S. government beat Russia in the space race. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Now I am become death, the destroyer of worlds. 
 
MELAS: Oppenheimer explodes onto screens in July. Peaky Blinders actor Cillian Murphy stars as physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer. Christopher Nolan directs this drama about the father of the atomic bomb. The star studded cast includes Emily Blunt, Robert Downey Jr. Romney Malik and Matt Damon.
 
And for much younger moviegoers, a much anticipated live action version of The Little Mermaid makes a splash in theaters in May. Up and coming star Halle Bailey plays the adventurous Ariel, who falls for a dashing young prince while visiting the surface world. But a deal with the evil sea which Ursula puts her life in jeopardy. Chloe Melas, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Now that's a film I'll be taking my daughters to. Very much looking forward to it. Well, still to come, you are in for a treat as superstar Craig David sings us his new kit to start off your New Year ride. Stay with us. You're watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN's New Year's celebration. I'm Christina Macfarlane at the Twickenham Film Studios in London. Now, these are some of the oldest studios in the UK, dating back to 1913, and they are where many famous movies have been recorded, including Top Gun Maverick and Black Mirror, to name but a few, but also a lot of music as well. During the height of Beatlemania back in the 1960s, a Hard Day's Knight was shot in this very room. And tonight we are lucky to see another star in action performing his new hit single, DNA. It's Craig David. 
 <br>[18:43:47]
 
MACFARLANE: Craig, that was incredible. Both of you, that was incredible. Thank you so much for performing for us. I feel so privileged to see you perform live because for me personally, you know, your music has been the soundtrack to my life since I was 16 years old. And I'm sure you hear that a lot, right. Because you have been making music for two decades. You produced eight albums, and now you have a new album out called 22. Tell me a bit about your new music. 
 
CRAIG DAVID, BRITISH SINGER AND SONGWRITER: Firstly, thank you. You said, lovely, that the music has touched your heart. Yes, it's been like 22 years since my first album, Born To Do It, which changed my life. And this new album, it's very symbolic in the number 22. It's about being recognizing that the foundation my music has got me to so far is now to really do the work and to be of service and help people and to speak my voice through the messaging and the songs. And at the same time, when I get to meet you and you say wonderful things like that, it means that the music is really doing what I'd hoped it would do. 
 
MACFARLANE: Good. That's good to hear. I know also that you wrote a book this year called "What's Your Vibe?" You speak very candidly in that book about some of the highs and lows in your career. You touch on difficult subjects like self-acceptance, self-love. Why did you want to write that book? 
 <br>[18:45:03]
 
DAVID: I kind of felt that we have sometimes it's easy to have this role to roll thing in life as a musician and we kind of hit each other as a like, well, I don't know how to really know how that feels to have been a musician. And I wanted to get out of that park that for a moment and get back to soul and talk about lack of boundaries or saying yes when you really mean no. Mental health maintenance, depression, bullying, which I think is something that's so prevalent, and especially the male suicide rates that were going up so much, where men find it difficult to actually to speak their truth and to find the sensitive side of a subject. I wanted us to demystify all that and help people. I think if I could help people with this book, then it would have been a book well worth writing. 
 
MACFARLANE: It's an important message for your fans, a lot of young fans now, of course, who are following you. I think, Craig, if we look back on 2022, one of the moments that sticks out in people's minds, or special moments, is you performing for our late Queen at the Platinum Jubilee this summer. What did that moment mean to you? 
 
DAVID: I mean, go rest her soul. It was such a special moment for the country at the time as well. I think everyone was looking for something at the end of a pandemic that hit so many people, and so many people had lost family members. There was this moment of celebration for the first time in the whole country. It was incredible to be standing outside Buckingham Palace and to look down the mall and see that many people enjoying this performance that went on.
 
And I was very lucky after to go into Buckingham Palace with my mom and I had a pinch in my hand. She's like, Craig, we're in Buckingham Palace. We're in the home of the Queen. And the funny thing is, I grew up in a block of flats in Southampton and the name was called Queen's House, so it had this symbolism within that.
 
But, I mean, yes, once again, to actually get the asked to go and perform at such an amazing event that will always last, the legacy and a time where, as we said, the whole nation was just as one for a moment, which was beautiful. 
 
MACFARLANE: I know you have a busy year coming up next year. I don't know if you believe in New Year's resolutions, but if you do, what intentions will you be setting for 2023? 
 
DAVID: You know what? I want to be able to -- I look at it like a lotus petal, and there's many different facets of that. So the music has been one part, the book has been another voice that I've been able to find and to be able to I want to really help people. They were looking for that answer and looking for something, but they can't quite articulate what it is. I think through my music it helps me, speaking my truth really helps me and to do it more. And that would be a great year for me if I can help people. MACFARLANE: So, Craig David, more than just a musician, it sounds
 
 like. It's been an absolute pleasure to meet you to listen to your music. Happy New Year.
 
DAVID: Happy New Year to you.
 
MACFARLANE: Nothing we can say that and all the best for the year to come. Thank you. 
 
DAVID: Thank you. You're amazing. I appreciate you. 
 
MACFARLANE: That was Craig David. I am Christina Macfarlane at the Twickenham London studios and we are continuing our CNN special coverage of New Year's Eve. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hey everybody, we are here on Broadway at the Broadhurst Theater and a beautiful noise the Neil Diamond musical wishing you a Happy New Year. 
 <br>[18:50:10]
 
MACFARLANE: Welcome back to London, where the New Year is approaching in minutes from now. But in much of the world, it is already 2023. The party started in Australia and East Asia, then moved on to the Middle East, Africa and Europe. Here's a look at some of the best celebrations of the night so far. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: An incredible sight here in Hong Kong. This is the first time I've seen fireworks over the Hong Kong harbor in almost three years. Wow, this really feels like a new beginning. 
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Taiwan's reopening to the world after three years of pandemic. This is a democracy that is ready to showcase a positive message of peace on earth. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Burj Khalifa in Dubai is the tallest building in the world, with over 160 floors, with certainly one of the most saved. It's always ready to ring in the New Year. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Like one of the kids here enjoying a ride on a camel, getting some ice cream, some Swahili food, as they all anticipate that moment at midnight when East Africa, Mombasa in this region celebrates 2023, the beginning of a new year. Happy New Year from Mombasa, Kenya. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Happy New Year from Athens, everyone. Happy New Year.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) KINKADE: So wonderful welcoming the New Year with you all around the world. And for many cities, this is the first time people have been out in the streets to celebrate shoulder to shoulder. And I want to bring in our Christina Macfarlane, who is in the figure that in London, many people there, Christina, coming out to welcome in the New Year. 
 
MACFARLANE: That's right, Lynda. I have managed to grab a few people from the crowd here. There's approximately, what, 90, 100,000 people on the banks of the Thames. And everyone is here for one thing, the fireworks display we are going to see behind us. Guys, tell me how excited you are for what's ahead and what are you hoping to see tonight with this fireworks display? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So excited. I've watched this fire display on TV since I was a kid, so to see it in person is a massive deal for me. 
 
MACFARLANE: OK. And yourself? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm so excited. We're opposite the London Eye and we're so excited to see the fireworks tonight. 
 
MACFARLANE: And you've traveled up from Brighton, is that right?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, Coolmore (ph).
 
MACFARLANE: Gosh, I'm sorry. Complete opposite ends with the country.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We live in Coolmore (ph).
 
MACFARLANE: OK, so, guys, tell me, when you look back on 2022, what are the memories that are really sticking in your mind? What's going to stay with you from this year, do you think?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, the ladies winning the World Cup in the football are brilliant.
 
MACFARLANE: The Euros. Lioness is winning the Euros in Wembley, here in London, of course, not far from us. Let's see if they can win the World Cup.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's my biggest memory of the year. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, the Jubilee was absolutely amazing and it was really sad to follow that with the Queen's funeral afterwards. That was quite moving. Yes. 
 
MACFARLANE: What did it feel like to watch people flooding to London for the Queen's funeral here to see the queue around the banks of the Thames here?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It was amazing. Like people from all over the world came here to memorial our Queen. It's just all over the world.
 <br>[18:55:03] The Queen is such a huge figure everywhere, not just the UK, but all across the world. So it was lovely to see people flock from all over the world come in memorial with that.
 
MACFARLANE: The longest serving monarch in history. Guys, it is a pleasure to share this evening with you. We have minutes to go until the fireworks, so enjoy it. Happy New Year. And we will be right back after this quick break. Stay with us. New Year is coming. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:58:00]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back to our New Year's Eve Live special. I'm Lynda Kinkade and we are counting down to midnight in London, Ireland, Iceland, Portugal, Ghana and much of West Africa. It's great to have you with us. I want to go straight now to our Christina Macfarlane who is ready to see in the fireworks at the London Eye. We are just minutes away. Happy New Year, Chrissy. 
 
MACFARLANE: Happy New Year, Lynda. We are what, less than two minutes here. It is the first time these fireworks are back in London since the start of the Copa Pandemic. I can tell you there is an enormous sea of people in front of me, cheering, shouting, some of them waving banners. To the left of me I can see the tower of big bands looming over us, waiting until the midnight hour win (ph) all time 12 times.
 
And then behind me we're going to see a fireworks display like none other. I think 12 minutes of 12,000 fireworks due to go off around the London Eye. As I look down the Thames here, I can see a flatilla of boats. I think there's roughly about 2,000 people here on the Thames with a perfect view of the London Eye. And we are in the final minute now. Lynda, do I have watched these fireworks since I was a little girl and I have never had the privilege of being this close. 
 
It is quite an emotional moment, I have to say, for me. We know that there's going to be a musical backdrop that has been carefully orchestrated for this moment. It's been four months to build the scene that we're about to see play out just here behind me, and I can see some drones flying above the London Eye right now as well. It is a year where we will remember, I think chiefly our queen who passed away in 2022.