Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia Targeting Ukraine's Infrastructure; President Zelenskyy Ask for a U.N. Emergency Meeting; UNSC Takes a Serious Look at Iran's Crackdown; Protesters Not Deterred by Crackdowns; Israel to Investigate Two Separate Bombings; Jair Bolsonaro's Petition Denied; Foxconn Employees in China Had Enough; Colorado Shooting Victims Identified; Mass Shootings Became a Norm in America; . Aired 3-3:45a ET

Aired November 24, 2022 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead here on CNN Newsroom, Ukraine's president urges the U.N. Security Council to support a peace formula after Russia amplifies its attacks, launching 70 missiles in just one day. We'll have a live report. 
 
And as the U.N. Human Rights Council gets ready to hold an emergency session on Iran. I will speak with a human rights lawyer who is trying to hold Iran accountable. 
 
Plus.
 
A sharp victory for Japan over Germany at the World Cup. We will dig into all the action on and off the pitch from Doha. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Live from CNN center, this is CNN Newsroom, with Rosemary Church. 
 
CHURCH:  It is 10 o'clock in the morning in Ukraine, where most of the capital still remains without power after Russia's large-scale assault on the country's critical infrastructure. Ukraine says Russian forces launched 70 missiles on Wednesday. Fifty-one of them were intercepted. But those that did strike knocked out power and water service across Ukraine and killed at least seven people. 
 
Several regions say their power has now been largely restored. Russian strikes also slammed into a hospital maternity ward, killing a newborn baby. The International Rescue Committee has condemned that attack in the Zaporizhzhia region. Saying women and children continue to pay a high price for this for war. 
 
Following the strikes, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy urged an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council to support the Ukrainian peace formula. Saying there should be no room for terror in the world. 
 
CNN's Matthew Chance is in southern Ukraine with more details now on Russia's latest assault on the country. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The latest target in Russia's ruthless missile barrage. A Ukrainian maternity ward pounded from the skies. Emergency workers pulling a doctor and young mother from the rubble. But a newborn baby, just two days old, couldn't be saved. 
 
Tatiana is the grandmother now in unbearable pain. Her daughter's face and legs were wounded by shrapnel she says, but it is the loss of the child that's left her daughter emotionally shattered, another life, another family now in ruins. 
 
Across Ukraine, the roar of Russian missiles is tearing up the skies. Near the capital Kyiv, a residential building was hit the yard outside turned into a smoldering disaster zone. Officials say casualties are high, with dozens injured or killed, as Russia tries to target energy and water infrastructure across Ukraine, an apparently deliberate attempt to make people here suffer. 
 
And another obstacle the Ukrainian leadership is vowing to overcome. 
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator):  The task has been set, we will restore all of this, and we will get through all of this, because we are an unbreakable people. 
 
CHANCE:  But with power outages nationwide, these are fragile times. Shops operating by flashlight, public transport at a virtual standstill, and even hospitals far away from the war zone on emergency supplies. Russia's barrage may not have broken Ukrainians, but it is making them suffer. 
 
Matthew Chance, CNN, Odessa.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHURCH:  But lights are now back on and at least some parts of Ukraine following the massive wave of Russian strikes. Officials say electricity has been restored in 90 percent of the city of Lviv with heat and water service back up and running. While power supply is also coming back in Odessa and in the Zaporizhzhia region. 
 <br>[03:05:01]
 
Meanwhile, a senior World Health Organization official says millions of Ukrainian lives could be in danger this winter. That's because hospitals across the country lacked power and fuel which can prevent them from providing proper care to patients. But some European cities are hoping to alleviate that problem by donating power generators to Ukraine. They will go to key facilities such as schools, hospitals, and water supply stations. 
 
At the U.N. the U.S. ambassador slammed Moscow over the attacks on Ukraine's power system. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS: Colleagues, it seems that Putin is determined in to reduce Ukrainian energy facilities to rubble. Putin's motive could not be more clear and more cold blooded. He is clearly, clearly weaponizing winter to inflict immense suffering on the Ukrainian people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  CNN's Salma Abdelaziz if following developments for us. She joins us live from London. Good morning to you again, Salma.
 
So, Ukraine's President Zelenskyy is urging the UNSC to basically support a peace formula in the wake of these large-scale missile attacks on infrastructure. What is the latest on this? 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, so Present Zelenskyy calling an emergency U.N. Security Council meeting yesterday, Rosemary. And this came after around 70 missiles were fired by Russia towards Ukraine, an attack so extensive, Rosemary, that neighboring Moldova lost electricity. 
 
A majority of those missiles were shot down by Ukraine's air defense system. But some of course hitting their targets. And the result of that was nearly every single Ukrainian electricity consumer lost power yesterday in the capital Kyiv, that meant they also lost running water. So, homes without running water, without a running electricity in the cold of the winter. You also have to think about hospitals, clinics, transportation. 
 
All of these key bits of infrastructure that struggle to function of course under these conditions. I was in Kyiv a couple of weeks ago, and we saw essentially dialysis had to stop when water was cut off to a local hospital there. So, President Zelenskyy calling this emergency council meeting. Take a listen to what he said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator):  Energy terror is comparable to the use of weapons of mass destruction. When we have the temperature below zero and scores of millions of people without energy supplies, without heating, without water, this is an obvious crime against humanity. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDELAZIZ:  So, President Zelenskyy, yet again accusing the Kremlin of terrorism. Yet again accusing it of human rights violations. Yet again accusing Russia of inflicting civilian suffering intentionally, very far from the front lines. And Ukraine's allies, President Zelenskyy's friends, including United States, absolutely agree with this assessment. 
 
What they are doing is providing billions of dollars' worth of support, Rosemary. And this isn't just in the form of weapons in air defense system and rockets and bullets. It's actually coming in the form of civilian infrastructure. So, generators, transmitters, equipment to fix power grids. 
 
I know many European cities are looking at sending all the generators and transmitters where they can. They launched this campaign, generators for hope, generators for peace. So, a real move there to bolster Ukrainians civilian infrastructure ahead of this very tough winter, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  Yes, Salma Abdelaziz, joining us live from London. Many thanks. The U.N. Human Rights Council's meeting next hour to discuss the brutal crackdown by Iranian authorities on protesters, especially women. 
 
Sounds of gunfire are ringing out across the country, including in Iran's Kurdish region, where over the past few days, dozens of protesters have been reportedly killed. Now, the U.S. is imposing sanctions on three officials in connection with those deaths. Anti- government protests have been sweeping Iran since the death of 22- year-old Mahsa Amini in police custody in September. 
 
Well, as many as 14,000 protesters have been arrested and at least 2,000 charged so far with at least six protesters receiving death sentences, lawmakers have been calling for protesters to be taught a quote, "good lesson" to deter others who threaten the authority of the Iranian government. 
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh spoke with one protester about the relentless determination to keep going. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Iranians have been risking it all for freedom. To break free of the shackles of a repressive regime that's brutality and bullets are only fueling the anger of those on the streets, making them more defiant than ever. 
 <br>[03:10:04]
 
UNKNOWN:  I know as long as the Islamic Republic is ruling the country, I couldn't do my duty. 
 
KARADSHEH:  This doctor we are not identifying for safety reasons was one of hundreds of medical professionals who gathered in Tehran last month for a demonstration organized by their council and it was violently broken up. Doctors tell CNN at least one person was killed and many injured, including one shot in the eyes and blinded. 
 
UNKNOWN:  As soon as I arrived there, the area was full of all kinds of forces. Plain clothes forces was too much. And they literally shoot everyone that was walking down the sidewalk of the street. I have bruises, multiple bruises in front of my body and back, and all of them was above my waist. But I saw injuries with batons, and they beat a lot, electric shock. 
 
KARADSHEH:  Just for going out and protesting you can go to jail or get killed? 
 
KARADSHEH It's not just death. It literally could be worse. We wish they kill us on the street rather than they arrest us. 
 
KARADSHEH:  Because of all the horrors in detention facilities, all these risks, the threats to you and to your family, that's not stopping you and others? 
 
UNKNOWN:  Of course not. They killed more than 1,500 in three days in less than a week, about two years ago. We know it could happen, and all of us will continue. There is no other way. We came from a a long journey and we realize that the Islamic Republic cannot change, and don't want to change. It is our duty to our next generation that we fight it, and hopefully we can change it. 
 
KARADSHEH:  Only Iranians can change it, as the protesters and others say, but they believe the international community can do more than just watch, condemn and announce symbolic sanctions. 
 
They could close Islamic Republic ambassadors, United Nations, UNICEF, pay more attention. We need actual action. The most important question is, are they willing to do that or not? To stand on the right side of history or not? 
 
KARADSHEH:  Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Gissou Nia is a human rights lawyer, and joins me now from Geneva, Switzerland. Thank you so much for being with us. 
 
GISSOU NIA, HUMAN RIGHTS LAWYER:  Thank you for having me. 
 
CHURCH:  So, as Iranian protesters continue their relentless fight for freedom and justice in Iran. The U.N. Human Rights Council is set to meet next hour to discuss the government's brutal crackdown on these brave and defiant demonstrators. What are you expecting to come out of that meeting? 
 
NIA:  Well, what's being tabled is a resolution from U.N. member states that are on the human rights council to set up a fact-finding mission that will be able to collect, preserve and analyze evidence of the violations that we see happening in the country right now that are committed by the authorities. 
 
CHURCH:  And we know at about 14,000 protesters have been arrested. At least 2,000 charged so far. An unknown number of protesters have been killed. And at least six protesters have received death sentences. So, what needs to be done to send a strong message to Iran that this mistreatment of protesters is totally unacceptable? 
 
NIA:  We are hoping that the establishment of a fact-finding mission and FNN will have at least somewhat of a deterrent effect on the Iranian authorities. I've been here in Geneva this week to speak to U.N. member states about the situation and to urge them to vote yes in the vote today. And what we have discovered is that the Islamic Republic has sent a
 
 very strong delegation to meet with all the same states and insist that the protesters are rioters, that nothing is happening, that they're not committing any violations. And anything that is happening, they are going to independently investigate themselves. 
 
So, they have been essentially sharing disinformation with the states. And that indicates to me that they are very concerned about the situation. And that if the multilateral system does robustly respond, it may give them pause and conserve some sort of preventative effect. 
 
CHURCH:  So, how does the world hold Iran accountable? 
 <br>[03:14:55]
 
NIA:  Well, the very first step here is to make sure that the evidence that needs to be gathered to shore up criminal indictments against those that are responsible can be pursued. And so, that's what we hope will be achieved today, in addition to any sort of preventative effect. There's also an accountability function to this. But the very first step is to make sure that we have an international independent process that is doing that. And so that's why today's session is so critical. 
 
CHURCH:  Indeed, it is. And we know that the United States is imposing sanctions on three officials in Iran's Kurdish region, where a number of protesters have been killed. But what more needs to be done, do you think? What should other nations be doing at this juncture? 
 
NIA:  The other nations can definitely also issue more targeted human rights sanctions. They can ensure that if Iranian officials have assets in their jurisdiction, that those are frozen and perhaps even seized and transferred to victims. 
 
And European countries that have universal jurisdiction laws on the books can open structural criminal investigations to really interrogate what is going on here. None of those steps have been taken. And they can. So, we hope that today is a first step in a multilateral response that leads to some unilateral responses from these countries. And we'll continue to move forward with that. 
 
CHURCH:  Gissou Nia, thank you so much for joining us, we appreciate it. 
 
NIA:  Thank you. 
 
CHURCH:  It has been a week of upsets at the World Cup. The latest, Japan's shocking triumph over former champs Germany. Fans in Tokyo lost their minds rushing into the streets near the
 
 famous Shibuya crossing. Japan's 2-1 comeback mark the first time the blue samurai have beaten the Germans. 
 
CNN's Don Riddell has details on the match and the poignant protest that preceded it. 
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR:  Germany are one of the most successful world cup teams ever, they've won it four times. But on Wednesday here in Qatar, they had a disastrous start in group E. However, before they lost their opening match against Japan, they staged a creative protest, accusing footballs world governing body FIFA of muzzling their freedom of expression. 
 
The players that hoped their captain Manuel Neuer would wear the one love arm band, a campaign that promotes inclusivity and is against discrimination of any kind. Germany's interior ministry wore the armband at the game. And the German football federation tweeted a statement, saying that denying us the arm band is the same as denying us a voice. 
 
FIFA say they will not take disciplinary action against Germany for the protest. Germany made a decent start against Japan leading a halftime through an Ilkay Guendogan penalty. But it was very different after the break. And Japan equalized through Ritsu Doan and then Takuma Asano settled with a brilliant finish. A 2-1 win sparking scenes of jubilation amongst both the players and the fans. 
 
Germany's biggest rival in group E was supposed to be Spain and the 2010 champions dominated their game against Costa Rica, thrashing them 7-nil. That is the biggest win of the tournament so far and it was historic. Gavi, one of six different scorers on the night, he is the youngest World Cup goal scorer since Pele, and at 18 years three months and 18 days he is also now Spain's youngest ever score in the World Cup. 
 
Spain completed their route with a couple of late goals. Carlos Soler targeted in the 90th minute, Alvaro Morata and then added another for good measure in injury time. 
 
Wednesday's group F match between Morocco and Croatia wasn't quite so exciting that when finished in a goalless draw. But there was plenty of drama as Canada made their first World Cup appearance since 1986. Arguably their biggest star Alphonso Davies had an early penalty save by Belgian Thibaut Courtois and the Belgians took the lead on the streak of halftime through Michy Batshuayi. 
 
That turned out to be decisive in a 1-nil win. The team that Belgium knocked out of the last World Cup, Brazil, will kick off their campaign against a potential dark horse in Serbia on Thursday. And of course, all eyes will be on Cristiano Ronaldo as his Portuguese side take on Ghana. Back to you. 
 
CHURCH:  But before the big Brazil and Portugal matches Switzerland will face off against Cameroon. Kickoff is about 90 minutes away. And a few hours later, Uruguay will take on South Korea. 
 <br>[03:19:53]
 
Well, two back-to-back explosions raise new concerns in Israel that the ongoing wave of violence could become even deadlier. That's ahead. 
 
And later, Brazil's outgoing president tried to challenge the election results. But the electoral court was not having it. We're back with that in more, in just a moment. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  An Israeli court has imposed a gag order on the investigation into a deadly double bombing in Jerusalem. Two explosions hit the city less than 30 minutes apart on Wednesday, killing a teenager and leaving 18 other people injured. No one has claimed responsibility. And police are searching for the suspects. 
 
Hours after the attacks, hundreds of people attended a funeral for the 15-year-old who was killed. Israeli Prime Minister Yair Lapid noted the alarming levels sophistication seen in these attacks. And there are concerns more could follow. 
 
CNN's Hadas Gold has the report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Sirens rang out during rush hour after a double bombing shook Jerusalem Wednesday morning. A 15-year-old student was killed and more than 14 injured in what authorities are calling a suspected coordinated combined terror attack. 
 
The first explosion captured on CCTV footage, widely shared on social media, rocking a bus station at one of the main entrances to the city. The blast so strong, debris and pock marks reached across three lanes of traffic. Authorities believe a bag or package was placed at the bus stop around 7 a.m. and was likely detonated remotely. 
 
The first blast killing the teenage boy, a Canadian Israeli citizen, who was a student at a Jewish religious school, and injuring at least 11 others. A second blast occurred not far from the first, around hour an hour later at the city's remote junction, likely injuring three people. A spokesman for first responders at the scene telling CNN the injuries inflicted show the hallmarks of terror. 
 
RAPHAEL POCH, SPOKESPERSON, UNITED HATZALAH INTERNATIONAL:  There was shrapnel injuries, and the nails, and ball bearings, and those types of things which are very common to be placed in bombs that are made for the sake of terror were definitely a factor as well. 
 
GOLD:  The incident reminiscent of the style carried out in the second intifada organized and technically sophisticated. 
 
POCH:  This is something very, very tragic, and it's something we haven't seen in a very long time, and we hope it doesn't come back to become a routine or a regular situation. 
 
GOLD:  Israel's Prime Minister Yair Lapid also noting the worrying developing. 
 
YAIR LAPID, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  This event is different from what we have seen in recent years. An extensive intelligence effort is now underway that will lead us to find these heinous terrorists, those behind them, and those who provided them with weapons. GOLD:  As Israeli police search for suspects, the man pushing to
 
 become public security minister in the incoming government arrived at the scene. The far-right leader Itamar Ben-Gvir calling for sweeping security measures in response. 
 <br>[03:24:53]
 
ITAMAR BEN-GVIR, JEWISH POWER PARTY LEADER (through translator): Charging a price for terror means checking where these terrorists came from. Reaching their villages, whether they are in Israel, or in Judea and Samaria imposing a curfew, going from house to house, and searching for weapons, and bringing back deterrence and governance.
 
GOLD:  A deadly escalation in what's already been one of the most violent years this in this region since the days of the second intifada as fears grow that this attack will bring more. 
 
Hadas Gold, CNN, Jerusalem.
 
CHURCH:  Kosovo and Serbia have finally agreed to end a nearly two- year dispute over license plates. Kosovo had planned to start finding thousands of Serbian drivers who were using Serbian issued plates on their vehicles. A move the west had feared would escalate into ethnic violence. 
 
But the E.U.'s foreign policy chief says both sides have now resolved their differences. Kosovo and Serbia intend to join the European Union. And as part of that process, they have agreed to resolve their long-standing issues and improve relations. 
 
We'll, coming up here on CNN Newsroom, iPhone maker Foxconn backs down after violent worker protest rocked its China facility, agreeing to pay workers as promised. We will have a live report on that just ahead. 
 
And then later, new details emerge about the accused gunman in the Colorado LGBTQ nightclub shooting. We're back with that and more in a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Hello, and welcome back to our viewers all around the world. 
 
Here's a look at some of the key stories making international news today. Well, the death toll now stands at 271 from that devastating earthquake in Indonesia. Rescue crews are not giving up on finding survivors. On Wednesday, they pulled a six-year-old boy alive from the wreckage. His parents and grandmother were killed. The boy survived unhurt, protected by a mattress. 
 
At least 80 people have been injured in an earthquake in northwestern Turkey. The 5.9 magnitude quake struck earlier Wednesday, sending people cloud and blankets out into the street. The country's emergency management agency reports more than 140 aftershocks. Fortunately, the government says there are no reports of serious damage. Scotland's attempt for a second independence vote has been shot down
 
 by the U.K. Supreme Court. The Scottish National Party is taking the ruling especially hard. Party leader and Scottish first minister Nicola Sturgeon says she accepts the court's ruling, despite needing parliament's approval for a new vote. She criticized the need for parliaments involvement, saying it implied the U.K. was not a voluntary partnership of nations. 
 <br>[03:30:07]
 
All right, turning now to Brazil, where the head of the electoral court is dismissing outgoing President Jair Bolsonaro's attempt to challenge the runoff election results. Bolsonaro narrowly lost to his rival Lula during the runoff, but has yet to clearly concede. 
 
Stefano Pozzebon has the story. 
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST:  Late on Wednesday, Brazilian chief electoral judge, Alexandre de Moraes dismissed a petition from the party of outgoing President Jair Bolsonaro to void a number of votes from the recent runoff election that Bolsonaro lost against left rival Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. De Moraes call their request ludicrous and illicit, and ordered the liberal party to pay a fine of 22 million real, just about $4 million U.S. dollars, for bad faith litigation. 
 
The petition originally filed on Tuesday, only asked to re-examine the results of the second round of the election, where Bolsonaro lost against Lula. And not the result of the first round of the election, where the liberal party won the larger share of the vote. 
 
The party allege that a number of electronic voting machine malfunctioned during the second round. But De Moraes say, demanded that the party challenge results on both the first and the second round of the elections for the court to consider the case. Given at the same electronic voting machine was used for the first and the second round of the election. As the party refused to do so De Moraes dismissed the challenge together.
 
Meanwhile, Lula has already moved on to prepare himself to rule the country. On Wednesday, his transitional team met with members of the civil society to set the agenda ahead of these inauguration, which is set for January 1st. 
 
For CNN, this is Stefano Pozzebon, Bogota. 
 
CHURCH:  Coronavirus problems are mounting for China, despite its zero COVID policy. On Wednesday, the country recorded more than 31,000 local cases, its highest since the start of the pandemic. The capital city of Beijing alone reported its third consecutive day of more than 1,000 local infections. 
 
And this comes as violent protests erupt at the world's largest iPhone assembly factory in central China, with workers they are upset about pay and insufficient anti-COVID measures. Social media video shows workers at the Foxconn plant confronting police in hazmat suits. The company is offering those who are willing to quit their jobs and leave the Zhengzhou compound a $1,400 dollar payout. 
 
So, let's get right to CNN's Kristie Lu Stout. She joins us now from Hong Kong. Kristie, what more are you learning about these protests at the iPhone factory, and Foxconn's apparent back down? 
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. Well, Rosemary, we have been closely monitoring these remarkable online videos showing dramatic clashes at this massive iPhone factory in the central Chinese city of Zhengzhou. Foxconn workers have had enough. They're angry, they're furious, they're angry about their pay, about COVID-19 restrictions, about the sanitation situation inside the factory. 
 
And Foxconn this day they said that they're willing to offer $1,400 U.S. dollars to new hires to quit and to leave the facility there in Zhengzhou. And that is roughly equivalent to two months salary. And even though the term Foxconn is heavily censored online in China, these online videos have been circulating widely. 
 
And we see this tense standoff between the workers out on the streets, and the hazmat clad security forces. We see the workers tear down barriers and hurled them. And also, in a live stream which has since been taken down, you can hear the workers complain about their pay and about the situation inside the factory. 
 
Now, we have a new statement that came out today from Foxconn. Let's bring it up. The company says this, quote, "taking care of the health and safety of employees is the primary operating principle that the group has always adhered to. We fully understand the concern of some newly recruited employees at the Zhengzhou Park about possible changes in the subsidy policy. Our team has been looking into the matter."
 
Now, CNN has also learned that Apple has staff on the ground at the Zhengzhou iPhone factory there. And the statement from Apple reads as follows. Quote, "we are reviewing the situation, and working closely with Foxconn to ensure their employees concerns are addressed," unquote. 
 
Now Rosemary, we will continue to monitor the situation there in Zhengzhou and to see whether or not that $1,400 dollar U.S. payout will be enough to quell the angry protests there. Back to you. 
 <br>[03:24:59]
 
CHURCH:  Yes, absolutely. Kristie Lu Stout, thanks for keeping a very close eye on that. I appreciate it. 
 
Well, we have some new developments out of Malaysia. Veteran opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim has been appointed as the country's next prime minister. And will be sworn in in the coming hours. A general election last Saturday ended in a hung parliament, with neither of two main alliances able to secure enough seats to form another government. 
 
State media say Malaysia's king picked Mr. Ibrahim after both parties missed Tuesday's deadline to put together an alliance. Time for a store break. When we come back, police identify the victims
 
 of the mass shooting at a Walmart in Virginia. What their coworkers are saying about the gunman. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH:  Residents of Chesapeake, Virginia are remembering six people gunned down by a coworker at a local Walmart. The shooter took his own life. Police have identified Lorenzo Gamble, Brian Pendleton, Kellie Pyle, Randall Blevins, and Tyneka Johnson. They are withholding the name of a 16-year-old boy who was also killed. 
 
CNN's Brian Todd has more on the tragic shooting. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIANA TYLER, WALMART EMPLOYEE WHO WITNESSED SHOOTING:  He just looked around the room, and just shot. and there were people just drop to the floor. 
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Another mass shooting, less than 70 hours after one in Colorado. This time, at a Chesapeake, Virginia, Walmart, busy with holiday shoppers. Briana Tyler, an employee who witnessed the shooting recounting the horror of what took place last night, just after she arrived for her overnight shift. 
 
TYLER:  He shot near my head. And it was about inches away. And in that moment, it still hadn't really kick in that it was real. Because I was thinking it was like a simulation type of thing. Like, this is what we do if we have an active shooter. And the reason why I think it was this, is because I recognize his face. 
 
TODD:  The city of Chesapeake identifying the shooter as 31-year-old Andre Bing. Walmart confirms Bing was an overnight team leader. His home, seen here with the door smashed in by police, when they and other agents were on the scene investigating. Police say the gunman was armed with several magazines, and a pistol that he used to kill at least six people. 
 
Two of the victims were found dead in the break room, along with the gunman, who police believe died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Another victim was found near the front of the store. Three victims were taken to local hospitals, but later died. At least six other victims were also taken to the hospital with two in critical condition. Briana telling us of warnings she had gotten from other employees about Bing. 
 
TYLER:  They warn me that he was the manager to look out for, pretty much. You know, he would write you up just because he could, or if you did something that he was not a very big fan of. You know, he just, he picked a lot, I guess is what I heard. He was just a manager who had probably give you issues, but not anything to this extent. 
 <br>[03:40:08]
 
TODD:  Other employee witnesses in shock. UNKNOWN:  Just left out of the break room. (muted) came in there,
 
 started capping people in there. Started shooting, bro. 
 
TODD:  Just two days before Thanksgiving, family members receiving frightening calls and text from their loved ones. 
 
UNKNOWN:  His wife received a phone call about 10.18 saying that he had been shot. He clocks in at 10. So, he had not even been there ten minutes. 
 
Joanna Jeffries said her mother was inside the store during the shooting and sent her these text messages, saying there was an active shooter in the store. Those surviving the incident, thankful. 
 
TYLER:  It could be all gone in the blink of an eye, literally. Like, my life truly did flash before my eyes. 
 
TODD:  We've asked Walmart to respond to Briana Tyler's account that she was previously warned by other employees to watch out for Andre Bing. And we've asked Walmart if Bing was ever the subject of any disciplinary measures or if any other employees had ever complained about him. They have not responded to those questions.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Chesapeake, Virginia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  The suspect in the mass shooting at an LGBTQ nightclub in Colorado is being held without bond. The ruling came down on Wednesday after Anderson Lee Aldridge appeared in court for the first time. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN:  Could the defendant please state his name. 
 
ANDERSON LEE ALDRICH, COLORADO SHOOTING SUSPECT:  Anderson Aldrich.
 
UNKNOWN:  Anderson Aldrich, did you watch the video concerning your constitutional rights in this case? 
 
ALDRICH:  Yes.
 
UNKNOWN:  Do you have any questions about those rights? 
 
ALDRICH:  No. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Four more charges against Aldrich will come during the next hearing in December. Meantime, we are learning more about the suspect, who legally changed their name back in 2015. A neighbor says Aldrich expressed hatred for gay people on at least one occasion, but never mentioned identifying as non-binary. The neighbor also claims Aldrich once showed him a weapon they owned. 
 
Well, there have been more than 600 mass shootings across the United States so far this year. That is according to the Gun Violence Archive which tracks the shootings. The number of mass shootings has surged over the past four years. Three hundred thirty-six were recorded in 2018. By 2021 that number more than doubled. 
 
And before we go. He's been called the world's first paraastronaut. The European Space Agency has appointed its first astronaut with a physical disability. British Paralympics sprinter John McFall will help the ESA create conditions for people with disabilities to travel into space. McFall, who lost his leg in a motorcycle accident at age 19, was chosen for the role out of 257 applicants. 
 
And this is the agency's first major step towards allowing those with physical disabilities to live and work in space. 
 
And thank you so much for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. Happy Thanksgiving to those of you who celebrate this day. Enjoy your time with loved ones. And CNN Newsroom with Max Foster begins in about 15 minutes. Marketplace Europe is next.
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)