Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Russian Airstrikes Knock Out Water For 80 Percent Of Kyiv; Nation Mourns After Crowd Crush Kills At Least 154 People; Former Israeli P.M. Eyes Political Comeback Tuesday. Aired 10-10:45a ET

Aired October 31, 2022 - 10:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:48]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: New Russian airstrikes target Ukraine's critical infrastructure this time, leaving most of the capital 
 
 Kyiv without running water. And.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Some people were looking at the other in just paint. It was so much blood everywhere.
 
ANDERSON: The nation mourns the loss of so many young lives after a crowd crush kills at least 154 in Seoul. Plus.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For most Israeli voters, the question at the ballot box will be whether they want Netanyahu or not.
 
ANDERSON: Former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attempts a political comeback as Israelis prepare for their fifth election in less than four 
 
 years.
 
Very good evening. I'm Becky Anderson. Welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD. Broadcasting from our Middle East programming hub here in Abu Dhabi when 
 
 the time is 6:00 in the evening. 
 
Electricity out, water service disrupted, subways halted. Ukrainian cities feeling the impact of waves of Russian missile attacks on critical 
 
 infrastructure. These are pictures from near Kyiv. This missile among the 44 Ukraine says it intercepted but others hit their targets including an 
 
 energy facility that the mayor says supplies power to 350,000 departments in the capital. 
 
Similar attacks are reported in Kherson and in parts of southern and central Ukraine. Now these strikes happening as Russia withdraws from the 
 
 Black Sea grain deal after what it claims was a Ukrainian drone attack on its Black Sea fleet in Crimea. Despite that, dozen ships left Ukraine's 
 
 Black Sea ports on Monday.
 
Nic Robertson is on the ground near one of the latest missile strikes in Kyiv. Salma Abdelaziz also in Ukraine's capital with the latest on those 
 
 grain shipments or lack of them. We'll come to you, Salma in a moment. Nic, let me start with you. Where are you and what are you seeing where these 
 
 attacks happened?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes. This is the center of Kyiv. And we're seeing something this evening that the city hasn't 
 
 witnesses the very beginning of the war. Those strikes around the capital here today, the mayor of cube saying that 80 percent of the city's water 
 
 has been taken off line. So what the government has done is set up spigots around the city. The line of people behind me, they're waiting to get water 
 
 at the spigots here. 
 
So, if you want to cook your dinner tonight in Kyiv, if you want to have a cup of tea this evening, if you want to wake up tomorrow and be able to -- 
 
 and be able to -- able to wash and clean your teeth tonight, you need to come to a water spigot to be able to get water because most of the city 
 
 doesn't have it. Now the mayor says that he does anticipate the city getting water back to some parts of the city as the coming -- over the 
 
 coming days.
 
But it could be weeks before the system is fully restored. And that is because the electricity grid across the country and in the capital in 
 
 particular has now become so precarious after three weeks of strikes that even just a couple of strikes here now can have a significant impact, not 
 
 just the water affected today, the cellular phone network hit and impacted across the city, many areas of the city without full cellular service.
 
The Internet services over the mobile phones which are normally very good here had been -- had been damaged. And the government saying that 10 
 
 different regions hit here today with 18 different strikes, many intercepts they say but it's still the number of missiles getting through because the 
 
 system is precarious. This is what's happening. People were talking to here though saying they're even expecting this and they're ready to put up with 
 
 it.
 
Of course, it's getting cold as well. These lines and all this will become harder to endure during the winter. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes, absolutely. Well, that's the story on the ground where Nic is in Kyiv he's just in explain what's going on across the country.
 <br>[10:05:02]
 
Salma, you've got the latest on the grain deal. The U.N.-brokered helped by Turkey. A grain deal of some couple of months or so ago or lack there of of 
 
 grain movement at this point. Just explain what's going on.
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN REPORTER: This is extremely critical, Becky. There is a rush from the international community. A great sense of urgency to try to 
 
 revive this deal. This is very important because what we saw earlier in the summer up until July, when Turkey in the United Nations brokered this deal, 
 
 we saw millions of tons of grain stuck in Ukrainian ports unable to be exported. 
 
And that's the fear here is that we continue to see that happen again. That could mean in the short term potentially, rising food costs as we head into 
 
 a winter where already the cost of living crisis has hit many countries. So huge urgency here to try to resolve this. Russia for its part blames 
 
 Ukraine. They say Ukraine carried out drone attacks on their Black Sea fleet. Ukraine is denying that.
 
But I think there's a bigger picture here. President Zelenskyy has said that for weeks Russia has wanted to pull out of this week. That's according 
 
 to President Zelenskyy. This deal was supposed to expire at the end of November. And Russia was giving no indication that it was going to continue 
 
 the deal. And as you heard from my colleague Nic Robertson there, there are very few pressure points that the Kremlin can press on when it comes to 
 
 this conflict.
 
And absolutely, this is one of them. Now, what we know so far is potentially there are dozens of ships, over 200 ships that may be blocked 
 
 in the port, unable to get out of Ukraine and export those very important goods. We do know that a dozen vessels were able to get out of the Black 
 
 Sea today with the help of the United Nations and Turkey. Russia responded to that by saying that if this continues without their involvement in the 
 
 initiative, it could be risky and dangerous.
 
Now that's very worrying rhetoric there as well. But as you're seeing there, Becky, civilian suffering being inflicted here in Ukraine and 
 
 potentially wider implications for this conflict if this grain, if this initiative isn't restarted. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes. Salma Abdelaziz on the ground as well in Kyiv in Ukraine for you. And more from Ukraine next hour here on CNN.
 
Well, South Korea is mourning and demanding answers after at least 154 people died in a crowd surge in Seoul. The tragedy happened on Saturday 
 
 night. When Halloween party goers jammed into a narrow street in the city's popular nightlife district. Witnesses say they were unable to move or 
 
 breathe. Makeshift memorials have been set up near the site and people have been laying flowers, lighting candles and holding moments of silence.
 
South Korea's president promised a thorough investigation. While the interior minister said there were no guidelines to deal with such a 
 
 gathering without an organizer. Well, our senior international correspondent Will Ripley joins us now live from Seoul. And as people begin 
 
 to come to terms with the enormity of what happened, do we understand what came about on Saturday night at this point?
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, we're getting closer to some of those answers, Becky, because for one thing, the forensics 
 
 investigators were out here in the alley behind me. This is where the majority of the people died. The case CSI, the crime scene investigative 
 
 unit was here conducting a pretty thorough probe from what we could tell. And -- but there are just -- I think the big questions are why was this 
 
 crowd allowed to pack into this fight in the first place.
 
And the focus is really shifting to the police department, Becky, because police officers were dispatched out here. They sent about 137 police 
 
 officers when there was a crowd of 100,000 people here in Taiwan, the iconic nightclub district in Seoul. But some of those officers were 
 
 actually dispatched from this area to protests that were happening nearby even as, excuse me, officer, even as the crowds were continuing to grow.
 
And so, even though local business owners and people working at these bars said that they were getting concerned as they saw the number of people 
 
 continue to increase, they were calling the police even walking to the police station which is just a couple minutes walk from where I'm standing 
 
 right now. And yet the officers didn't come out in time to get people to disperse.
 
And by the time they did, the noise was so loud that they were trying to direct people. People thought that the officers were wearing Halloween 
 
 costumes and they couldn't hear their commands anyway. I want to show you this, Becky. This memorial by the entrance to the subway station where the 
 
 majority of those who would have attended would have been coming in. It just continues to grow. 
 
I mean, I would say this is probably four times as many flowers as we saw at this time yesterday and thankfully this -- the number of dead has not 
 
 has not gone up since yesterday which is -- which is a very good development.
 <br>[10:10:07]
 
And considering that there are still a, you know, 33 people or so almost three dozen people who are in hospital in very serious condition, if they 
 
 can keep those people alive and keep that death toll at the horrific number of 154 and not going up anymore, that might be some comfort at least. But 
 
 perhaps little comfort for the many people out here who have been gathering and expressing their anger, their anger at the government, anger at the -- 
 
 at the fact that there was -- there is not a plan in place for large events that don't have one organizer.
 
Like pretty much every major Halloween holiday here in Taiwan. Why would they not have crowd control procedure set up far in advance to protect 
 
 people like the survivor who spoke earlier today with my colleague Ivan Watson. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALICE SANNIER, SURVIVOR: There were like so many people who are like, pushing us. And like, we can't breathe. I choke for a moment.
 
ANNE-LOU CHEVALIER, SURVIVOR: At some point. I have no air and we were so crushed to other people that I couldn't breathe at all. So I just passed 
 
 out.
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Unconscious.
 
CHEVALIER: Yes. Unconscious.
 
WATSON: Did you know that people were dying near where you were standing?
 
CHEVALIER: No, no, no, no. 
 
SANNIER: Like, we're just there. And we're just trying to save our life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIPLEY: And she knows she is lucky to be alive. You know, all the 154 who were killed, 99 of them were women. 55 men died. 102 of these were young 
 
 people in their 20s. So it's just an extraordinary tragedy, Becky. And especially for the young women who are in that crowd. There are social 
 
 media videos showing that some people started shouting, push, push because the crowd wasn't moving.
 
And that's when people fell and started literally piling on top of each other. We spoke with a first responder yesterday who described it a pile of 
 
 people where you could only see their faces about 10 people high and they were pulling people out from that laying them down on the sidewalk watching 
 
 them basically lose consciousness just right in front of everyone's eyes.
 
ANDERSON: It's traumatic. What a tragedy. Will, thank you. Will Ripley is in Seoul. Well, just ahead (INAUDIBLE) a corruption trial. Could Israel's 
 
 former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu still returned to power in Tuesday's election? Our preview is up next.
 
And years after four years of a hard white government Brazil takes a hard left turn.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:15:01]
 
ANDERSON: Israel is facing its fifth elections in under four years. Israel is getting ready to go to the polls on Tuesday and the vote could make or 
 
 break. Former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, he is in the middle of a corruption trial but remains the country's dominant political figure. Let's 
 
 being in CNN's Hadas Gold live from Jerusalem. Benjamin Netanyahu who is of course the opposition leader at present.
 
Where does he stand? He's chairman of Likud which is the main party in the opposition bloc. Where does he stand up press? What chance that he will 
 
 leave this country going forward after this the fifth election in four years.?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We probably sound like a broken record after five -- now almost five elections in less than four years. But polls once 
 
 again don't show that any block has a very clear majority, although recent polls do show that the pro-Netanyahu bloc of parties are closer to that 61-
 
 seat magic number needed to form a government. But while that is a repetition of the last four elections, Israel has been through one major 
 
 thing is different.
 
And is that for this election, Benjamin Netanyahu is not coming into the election as the prime minister. That's the first time that's happened in 
 
 more than 12 years.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD (voice over): The Bibi show is back. Replete with a Bibi mobile, encased in bulletproof glass, aiming to once again become the main 
 
 attraction.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (text): Welcome to the next prime minister of Israel, Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu.
 
GOLD: Social Benjamin Netanyahu does not yet have a clear path towards the majority. So the former prime minister is trying to pull every possible 
 
 vote out of his base.
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, LEADER OF THE OPPOSITION IN ISRAEL (text): Don't be despondent. Be turbo-charged. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Bibi is king of Israel. Bibi is king of Israel.
 
GOLD: And just like the previous four elections in just over three years, for most Israeli voters, the question at the ballot box will be whether 
 
 they want Netanyahu or not.
 
ANSHEL PFEFFER, AUTHOR, BIBI: THE TURBULENT LIFE AND TIMES OF BENJAMIN NETANYAHU: We're not talking about any other policy issue really beyond 
 
 Netanyahu and what Netanyahu will do on the day after the election.
 
GOLD: Netanyahu's ongoing corruption trial where he faces charges including bribery, fraud and breach of trust, charges Netanyahu denies will be his 
 
 first priority analysts say.
 
YOHANAN PLESNER, PRESIDENT, ISRAEL DEMOCRACY INSTITUTE: That perhaps firing the attorney general, those kinds of maneuvers that will allow him to free 
 
 himself from the legal process that he's facing and to deliver the goods to his political allies.
 
GOLD: Those political allies will likely include the far right wing of Israeli politics. People like Itamar Ben-Gvir, an extremist who has been 
 
 convicted for supporting terrorism and inciting racism, now expected to help garner at least 12 seats for Netanyahu was block. He was once an 
 
 outcast of Israeli politics, known for his art in support of settlers and flaming Israeli-Palestinian tensions.
 
Just last year, Netanyahu said Benjamin wasn't fit to serve in the cabinet, but now desperate for his votes, then there certainly could get a 
 
 ministerial position Netanyahu said this month.
 
PFEFFER: And then the question is, what is the price that the far right is going to extricate from him? Will it be perhaps canceling the disengagement 
 
 law from 2015? Meaning that perhaps some settlements in the West Bank which were in the past abandoned by Israel will be rebuilt, reoccupied and 
 
 perhaps further steps towards sometime of annexation in the West Bank.
 
GOLD: But at least one former adviser says Netanyahu won't make any extreme moves because the alliance with Ben-Gvir won't last.
 
MOSHE KLUGHAFT, FORMER NETANYAHU STRATEGIST: Netanyahu's strategy is work for the short term and then for another short term and another short term 
 
 and not for the long term.
 
GOLD: Sixty-one seats are needed to form a government. And if he wins, Netanyahu has denied that he'll try to quash his trial or that the 
 
 extremists will have power.
 
NETANYAHU: I wouldn't do anything that affects me. I think my trial is unraveling as it is. I've had such partners in the past and they didn't 
 
 change an iota of my policies.
 
GOLD: But before he can decline such policy ideas, only to claw his way back to power, one parliamentary seat at a time.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD: Of course, Becky, so much of Election Day as always across the world comes down to turnout and who comes out to vote. For Benjamin Netanyahu, he 
 
 wants to bring out what his party believes are the hundreds of thousands of Likud voters, his party's voters who sat out the last election. He's trying 
 
 to bring them back. But then of course there is the Arab vote. The Arab citizens make up some 20 percent of the Israeli population.
 
And if they come out in force, that can very distinctly change what the vote will be and what the makeup of the next parliament will be and whether 
 
 Benjamin Netanyahu will come back into power because we're talking about such razor-thin margins here about whether somebody will get that 61 votes 
 
 needed to have a governing coalition, Becky?
 <br>[10:20:07]
 
ANDERSON: Hadas Gold on the story for you.
 
Martin Indyk, former U.S. ambassador to Israel and distinguished fellow on the Council of Foreign Relations joins me now live from New York. Good 
 
 friend of the show. It's good to have you. To win, Benjamin Netanyahu as Hadas was reporting would need the far right. What's your assessment of the 
 
 impact of a Netanyahu win? Should that be the results, Martin?
 
MARTIN INDYK, FOREMR U.S. AMBASSADOR TO ISRAEL: Well, the impact in the region and in relationship with the United States could be quite rocky. The 
 
 Biden administration doesn't have a good history of relations with Netanyahu. And if he takes on these far-right extremists into his 
 
 government, into his cabinet, then I think that we're in for a rocky road. Plus, of course, the potential a week later for Congress to fall into the 
 
 hands of the Republicans would give Netanyahu an opening to do what he's done before which is to play the Republican Congress off against the 
 
 Democratic administration. That's what he did with Obama. And that really ramped things up.
 
ANDERSON: You've forgotten more about Israeli elections, and most of us will ever know. We just feel a little Groundhog Day at this point. And when 
 
 we are looking at these blocks and how they are building as, you know, as we as we take a look at the polling, do you believe that Benjamin Netanyahu 
 
 is likely to be able to build a winning block at this point?
 
INDYK: Well, I I've learned not to predict the outcomes of Israeli elections, because I've usually gotten wrong. And so I think, particularly 
 
 because as your report said, the margins are razor thin. And the polls all suggested deadlock. And in fact, if you go back over the last five 
 
 elections, Netanyahu has come close to that has had real difficulty getting over that -- to that 61 seat majority that would enable him to form a 
 
 government.
 
And with right-wing parties and religious parties. And that's going to be his challenge this time too. So much depends on what the Arab vote will be 
 
 and what their turnout will be. And they're fairly alienated. But they can flip in the last moment, if they come out, if there's a difference between 
 
 40 percent turnout, 60 percent turnout, that could change the election dramatically in favor of Jair Lapid, the current prime minister.
 
ANDERSON: The Arab world will be keenly watching these elections, not least those Arab countries that have normalized relations under the Abraham 
 
 Accords with Israel. I'm talking about the UAE where I am here, Bahrain. Morocco and Sudan. And talk, certainly during the Biden trip to Saudi 
 
 Arabia in the summer, that there is, you know, a path towards normalization, perhaps, for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia at this point.
 
You suggested at the start of this conversation that a Netanyahu government would be -- and I think your description would -- the impact could be 
 
 rocky, not just for the U.S. but for the region where I am here as well. Just explain why.
 
INDYK: Well, while the Abraham Accords countries are led by the UAE moved ahead with Israel, without material progress on the Palestinian issue. 
 
 There are two things that occurred. First of all, it's not a very well-kept secret that there was a written commitment by Netanyahu to the UAE, that he 
 
 would not annex West Bank territories. I think the period was for 3-1/2 years. So if he becomes prime minister again, the clock will be ticking on 
 
 that commitment.
 
And he'll be under heavy pressure from these right-wing parties and the religious parties to go ahead with the annexation that he was so keen to do 
 
 before the UAE stepped in and offered normalization instead of annexation. So, that issue could raise its head again in a way that could really cause 
 
 a problem for the UAE. On top of that as you know, because you follow it so closely, the tensions in the West Bank have increased quite dramatically 
 
 since the Abraham Accords was signed.
 
Because the largest number of Palestinians and Israelis that have been killed for more than a decade in the last six months, annual figures, 
 
 something like over 25 Israelis and over 130 Palestinians killed in the violence that's taken place there. And so, that has tended to kind of sour 
 
 things a bit with the Abraham Accords countries as their people and other Arabs expressed concern about what's happened to the Palestinians.
 <br>[10:25:14]
 
And then, of course, as you mentioned there, Saudi Arabia. And Saudi Arabia has taken steps towards normalization. The Biden administration has been 
 
 encouraging that. But it's unclear if things don't progress on the Palestinian side, whether the Saudis will be willing to take more. Here's 
 
 one twist, ironic twist, which is always the case in the Middle East. The relationship between the United States and Saudi Arabia is bad. 
 
And could well get worse by December when there's a critical oil decision that has to be made. And relations deteriorate with a potential Netanyahu 
 
 government. It's possible that Netanyahu and Mohammed bin Salman might just find a common interest in their antagonisms towards the United States.
 
ANDERSON: Well, that is a fascinating perspective, as you say, often twists in the narrative of this region. When you and I next speak, let's see how 
 
 that is -- that is playing out or has played out because at the moment, the scope of the Abraham Accords has failed to bring in any more countries of 
 
 course. Before I let you go, sir, we've just seen the back end of the initial one own presidency in Lebanon.
 
We've seen the coming together of the Israelis and the Lebanese who are technically at war over this maritime border which allows for both 
 
 countries to exploit what they hope will be some natural gas reserves in the Mediterranean, given the energy crisis in Europe, at present. There is 
 
 a much needed reserves potentially. But the Lebanese economy is in absolute dire straits. There is only a caretaker government at present.
 
This, of course, is a country that sits on the -- on the -- on, you know, on the other side of the border to Israel. And as I say, is technically 
 
 still at war. What happens next in Lebanon?
 
INDYK: Well, the agreement was in a way rushed through after 10 years of negotiations, precisely because there was a sense that (INAUDIBLE) leaving 
 
 and also the Israeli elections looming. So both sides had an incentive to try to do the deal now. But the fact is that on the Lebanese side, it 
 
 enjoyed a rare consensus, the agreement, even Hezbollah going along with it. So, I don't expect that we'll see it fall apart particularly because it 
 
 holds the potential for economic salvation for Lebanon whose economy has been in freefall.
 
And the politicians who benefit from an economy that's growing rather than declining, I think, have a common interest in seeing this go forward. And 
 
 that's the case on the Israeli side too where Benjamin Netanyahu has criticized it severely. But I think what's -- if he's back in office, if 
 
 he's back in office, he'll see the advantage of having a quiet border that enables Israel to export its gas which has just begun to do for midfield 
 
 just south of the border.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. He's made a lot of noise as a naysayer ahead of the election. But as you say, let's see if indeed he can build a block after 
 
 this election and becomes prime minister once again. Let's see whether he continues on that negative note going forward. It's always a pleasure. And 
 
 Mr. Indyk, thank you very much indeed for joining us. Good friend of the show.
 
INDYK: Thank you, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Always enjoy your insight and analysis of programming note. Thank you. CNN launching all new show broadcasts worldwide from London on 
 
 Tuesday. The program CENTER NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo will our weekdays at 4:00 a.m. New York time.
 
Well, still come. Lula's remarkable comeback in Brazil. He and his supporters are celebrating now but how will he unite, heal and govern a 
 
 nation that is so deeply divided?
 
And India grappling with one of the deadliest tragedies in a decade as a pedestrian bridge collapsed into a river. Coming up. Is (INAUDIBLE) finding 
 
 more survivors there. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Becky Anderson. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:32:07]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. The final results are in for the Brazilian presidential 
 
 runoff and they confirm Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva (INAUDIBLE) Jair Bolsonoaro by roughly two million votes. This marks a major comeback for 
 
 Lula after the former president spent a year and a half in prison on corruption charges that were later annulled. 
 
It also marks the end of Mr. Bolsonaro's often controversial far-right administration. Lula will take the reigns of a deeply divided nation 
 
 struggling with problems related to poverty, the pandemic and the environment. One big question now is when will Jair Bolsonaro concede 
 
 defeat? Well, CNN's Paula Newton is in Sao Paulo. Paula?
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Becky, that is the question right now. Imagine that we are 13 hours into the results being announced 
 
 here. And we have yet to see President Bolsonaro. The last time Brazilian saw their president in fact was when he voted. At issue here, Becky, as you 
 
 will know is whether or not he will concede. Whether he will accept those results.
 
Now some of his allies both in Congress and in state governments here have accepted the results. The problem is his supporters. Some of them now 
 
 blocking rows throughout Brazil believing that these results are not credible. Now if you turn no to Lula, what you were talking about there, an 
 
 incredible comeback at the age of 77 to again lead Brazil but a much different Brazil. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON (voice over): Supporters party like it was 2003. The last time Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva was swept into power and promise to transform Brazil 
 
 for a new century. He is now pledging to do it again.
 
These women just babies when Lula was first elected hailed him now as their political savior.
 
(CROSSTALK) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- so, so, so happy.
 
NEWTON: So, so, so happy. We couldn't take any more Bolsonaro, we can dream again.
 
Lula cemented an improbable political comeback destined now for the history books. He walked out of prison less than three years ago appealing 
 
 corruption convictions.
 
 After they were thrown out he mounted a campaign to defeat conservative populace Jair Bolsonaro.
 
LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA, BRAZILIAN PRESIDENT-ELECT (through translator): I consider myself a person who's been resurrected in Brazilian politics, 
 
 because they tried to bury me alive. And I'm here.
 
NEWTON: A gratified Lula pledged Brazil is back for its citizens and the world.
 
DA SILVA: From January 1st, 2023 I will govern for 215 million Brazilians and not just those who voted for me. They are not two Brazil, we are one 
 
 country. One people, one great nation.
 <br>[10:35:07]
 
NEWTON: Lula supporters flooded the streets of Sao Paulo relishing a fresh start.
 
NEWTON (on camera): Despite this victory, uniting this country now will be difficult and quite a challenge for Lula. And he also considers a very 
 
 determined opposition.
 
NEWTON (voice over): Bolsonaro did not formally concede on election night, the last time Brazilians saw their president was when he voted. But even 
 
 the head of Brazil's congress, a Bolsonaro ally, allowed Lula supporters their victory, saying Congress accepted the outcome. 
 
This Lula supporter says the war in her words, the culture war, the Bolsonaro leaned into is not over.
 
AYLA RAMALHO, SUPPOERTER OF LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (through translator): Look at the amount of votes this man had. Even after everything he's done 
 
 almost half of the votes. The difference was really small.
 
NEWTON: This is Lula's victory but no longer Lula's Brazil. Years of division and political acrimony have taken their toll blindsiding this 
 
 democracy and it could yet challenge this president like never before.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: You know, think about that, Becky, I was just talking about how this democracy was blindsided and many people here in Brazil feel that way 
 
 and more so this morning as they continue to await to see what their president will do. As I said, allies close to Bolsonaro have already said 
 
 that they can see, that they accept the results, but they need to wait for him. The transition period should now begin. Lula should be installed.
 
January 1st, Bolsonaro is key to making sure that the transition of power here continues peacefully and without incident.
 
ANDERSON: Paula is in Sao Paulo in Brazil for you, folks. Thank you, Paula. And you can read all about the latest on Brazil polarizing and what has 
 
 turned out to be historic election. Cnn.com from the tensions ahead of the vote, to international reaction, to the challenges ahead for Lula de Silva 
 
 and what's next for Bolsonaro and it's all that on our digital sides.
 
Well in India, nine people have been arrested in connection with a devastating bridge collapse over the weekend. Senior police official says 
 
 all nine are associated with the company that carried out maintenance on the bridge and that they are being investigated for culpable homicide. The 
 
 number of people killed in the collapse has now surpassed 130, including 30 children.
 
The state's home minister says a cable appears to have snapped leading to the tragedy. And CNN's Kristie Lu Stout has the latest on the search 
 
 efforts at the site of the disaster and why the bridge may have been so overloaded.
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The death toll continues to climb in India after a recently renovated suspension bridge collapsed in the western 
 
 Indian state of Gujarat on Sunday, killing scores of people, including children. Authority say 200 people were on the bridge at the time of the 
 
 collapse that took place 6:30 p.m. local time in the town of Morbi. And the video which is circulated widely on social media is disturbing to watch.
 
You see dozens of people clinging to and climbing up the twisted remains of the bridge to escape the water below. Some are clambering up to try to make 
 
 it to safety. Others managed to swim to shore and tragically, a number of children are among the victims.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Many children were enjoying holidays for Diwali and they came here as tourists. All of them fell on top 
 
 of one another. The bridge collapsed due to overloading.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STOUT: On Monday search and recovery teams combed the river to find the missing. The bridge was a popular tourist destination built during British 
 
 rule in the 19th century. It had been closed for renovations and was only recently reopened to the public. Gujarat has lodged a criminal complaint 
 
 against the agency that maintained the bridge and a special investigation team is looking into why the bridge collapsed.
 
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is in his home state of Gujarat for a three-day visit said he was deeply saddened by the tragedy. He also 
 
 announced compensation for the injured as well as for the families of the victims. Kristie Lu Stout CNN, Hong Kong.
 
CHURCH: World Sport is just minutes away. Dutch racer Max Verstappen is taking a Sunday drive into the record books.
 
Coming up. A look at what makes his victory at the Mexican Grand Prix so special.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:41:55]
 
ANDERSON: Max Verstappen is driven when new man has driven before. On Sunday, the Formula One driver one is 14 threes of the season. That means 
 
 he's passed Michael Schumacher and Sebastian Vettel for the most wins in a season. And as season isn't even over yet. World Sport Anchor Alex Thomas 
 
 joining us now with the details. Alex?
 
ALEX THOMAS, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: Yes. It's been a great week for Red Bull, hasn't it? Remember they went into this Mexican Grand Prix with a bit 
 
 of a cloud hanging over them in terms of breaking the cost cap rules and F1 from last year, as it was they were found and -- fined and received less 
 
 tunnel testing time for next year as well. But they've gone on to dominate the Mexican Grand Prix.
 
Yes, Sergio Perez didn't get that first ever win by a Mexican driver on home soil but his teammate Verstappen winning the race as he had done 12 
 
 months previously. Already got the individual drivers and constructor's titles in the bag. So there's no stopping them whatsoever, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: It's unbelievable, isn't it? I mean, the last race of the season of course is here in Abu Dhabi. We do like that to close out with the sort 
 
 of great fanfare. Will and still enjoy the race of course, but it is an astonishing achievement by Verstappen already. Thank you, Alex. You have 
 
 World Sport up -- after this short break. We are back with the second hour of CONNECT THE WORLD with me Becky Anderson out of Abu Dhabi after that. 
 
 Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END