Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Today, Putin Leads Military Drills Involving Practice Missile Launches; U.S. Imposing Sanctions on Iranian Officials; Florida Families Starting to Recover Four Weeks After Hurricane. Aired 10:30- 11a ET

Aired October 26, 2022 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR:  Today in Russia, the Kremlin announcing Vladimir Putin is leading annual training exercises. This year, though, those drills include launching intercontinental ballistic and cruise missiles. According to Russia's defense minister, the training exercise is simulating a nuclear strike in response to an enemy nuclear attack.
 
CNN's Nic Robertson is joining us live from Kyiv this morning. So, Nic, the Pentagon has stressed here these exercises are routine. The U.S. though, of course, keeping an eye on them. What is, though, different about these routine exercises this year?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  I think one of the things that is different is Russia is really posturing around these exercises. This explicit announcement by Sergei Shoigu, the minister of defense, to say that, essentially, this is how we would respond if there was a nuclear attack really plays into Russia and President Putin's allegations that Ukraine is preparing some kind of dirty bomb. I sat down with the Ukraine's head of military intelligence earlier today and I asked him that flat out, do you have a dirty bomb.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEN. KYRYLO BUDANOV, CHIEF OF THE DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE UKRAINE:  This is a question that became something of a joke. And my answer is direct. We are not getting prepared. We are not working on a dirty bomb.
 
ROBERTSON:  Ukraine has invited the International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors to come here. When are they due to arrive, where will they go and when do you expect their results?
 
BUDANOV:  We're absolutely supporting the visits of the IAEA mission. And we're waiting for them. We're waiting for them to visit all nuclear facilities.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) ROBERTSON:  Yes. And he said he just wants them to come in and publish their results quickly to prove that Ukraine is not preparing some kind of dirty bomb.
 
His assessment is interesting in what President Putin is doing right now. He believes that Putin is posturing, that Putin doesn't want to escalate this to a level of nuclear attack on Ukraine. He thinks that what Putin is trying to do is put pressure on Ukraine's western allies and partners, NATO, to pressure Ukraine for Ukraine to get into peace talks with Putin. He says that is just an absolute nonstarter until Russia gets out of Ukraine and withdraws to its positions in 1991. That will be back to pre-2014 invasion, not just pre-2022 invasion.
 
So, the sense here is Russia is posturing but they do want the IAEA to give them a clean bill of health but they also want the IAEA to inspect what Russia is doing at Ukraine's nuclear power plants, particularly in Zaporizhzhia, where they are concerned that Russia itself might be preparing some spent nuclear fuel rods for some kind of dirty bomb.
 
HILL:  Nic, can they get back in there?
 
ROBERTSON:  They are representatives of the IAEA there at present. They don't have access to the area that the military have under control. That is the concern. The Russian military are not giving them access to certain parts of the facility, including those where the dry spent fuel rods are stored.
 
HILL:  Yes, which raises its own set of questions, doesn't it? Nic, I appreciate it, as always, thanks so much.
 
Well, back here in the U.S., and specifically in Washington, backlash continues over a letter signed by some 30 progressive Democrats that was pushing among other things that President Biden alter his Ukraine strategy, take a more diplomatic approach with Russia. Members arguing that the ill-timed letter, which was then withdrawn, undercut Democrats' show of support for Ukraine.
 
Joining me now, one of the House progressives who signed on to the letter, Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas. Congresswoman, nice to see you again this morning.
 
Of course, Representative Jayapal then went on to withdraw the letter. Do you agree with her decision to withdraw that letter?
 
REP. SHEILA JACKSON LEE (D-TX):  Well, Erica, first of all, the president is the commander in chief. Joe Biden is a phenomenal expert in foreign affairs.
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
His leadership is renowned through the time as vice president and now I have great faith in his both integrity and as well his knowledge.
 
I think that what we need to perceive and understand is that diplomacy is always a tool in the tool kit. But it has to be used appropriately. And I think the decision, however the letter was distributed, I know that it was a letter that was being considered and released except like probably inappropriately. But it does focus on a tool, when it is appropriate.
 
Erica, it is not appropriate now and the right decision was made because if you have a barbaric like Vladimir Putin, who is talking about a possible nuclear hit, then we know that the only thing we need to is I wear this pin every day of dealing -- the pen of Ukraine and the United States, is for President Zelenskyy to be the decision-maker on how Ukraine moves forward in protecting democracy and saving the lives of the Ukrainian people.
 
HILL:  So then just to confirm there and answering the question, you said you did agree with withdrawing the letter.
 
In terms of what this does for negotiations for where things stand, just in general, the former ambassador to Ukraine, John Herbst, joined me earlier this morning, I asked him about that letter, whether he thought it had an impact. He called the letter naive and said that it plays Putin's games. How do you respond to that assessment from the former ambassador?
 
LEE:  Well, I would argue that there is no naivety to the question of diplomacy, it is all in timing. And, frankly, we know that where there might have been a window some months ago, there is no window at this point. And, again, our president, the commander in chief, has been doing an excellent job. I voted before I left for the district, for funding for Ukraine, and, certainly, I do not take the position of the leader of the House at this point who said, unfortunately, whether or not there would be any funding for Ukraine. I absolutely oppose that.
 
And then --
 
HILL:  But a quick question because we're a little tight on time, and I do also want to get your take on something else, but just to clarify what you said here, that right now is not the right time, it is my understanding from different lawmakers. They've told us they signed it at the end of June, they signed in July. Are you saying that the situation was right for this to be one of the tools at that time that should have been used, more of a push for diplomacy?
 
LEE:  Erica, I think diplomacy is always a tool but it is always a tool only when timing is right. Right now, it is not. It will never be right until President Zelenskyy decides that it will be right. And President Biden is doing the right thing and we'll be standing by President Biden for funding. You need to ask the question to Kevin McCarthy, will he be standing for Ukraine as it relates to --
 
HILL:  Right. And we've seen some pushback from his own party on that in response to those comments that you just brought, that he said basically that's going to need to be looked at again.
 
I do want to get your take on Brittney Griner, because I know that this is near and dear to you, obviously. You represent your hometown of Houston. So, we know what happened yesterday, right, in terms of her legal options there in Russia. Just a couple of weeks ago, President Biden sat down with Jake Tapper and he told Jake he would meet with Putin at the G20 next month if Putin said he wanted to talk about Griner's release. Do you think the president should meet with Putin if that is potentially on the table?
 
LEE:  Let me say that I don't view Putin as an honest broker. I sent out a message yesterday that he is barbaric, he is playing politics, but I want Brittney Griner home. Her family needs her home along with the other hostages, Paul Whelan. And anything that the president can do to generate an opportunity for that innocent young woman to be brought home and not be used as a political pawn and not to be in a cage in devastating conditions in Russia, I am for.
 
But I want us to make the point and I want the world to make the point that they can no longer tolerate Putin's misbehavior and his taunting of using a nuclear weapon and his taunting and using human beings as a pawn.
 
So, for me, Erica, I'm trying to go to Russia because I believe that it is important to have someone who is able, if you will, to speak on behalf African-Americans and black women if what he is doing is destructive. So, yes, I support the president. His hostage team has been stupendous. But his family, wife and family, they are just distraught. And I don't think this young lady should be tortured any further.
 
So, whatever the president can do, I support him and I want to continue to work to ensure that this young lady comes home, this renowned Olympian, charitable young woman who is loved by her team, loved by her community, loved by Houston and loved by the nation.
 <br>[10:40:04]
 
We need to bring her home and bring Paul Whelan home.
 
HILL:  Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, I appreciate you joining us this morning. Thank you.
 
LEE:  Thank you for having me.
 
HILL:  This just into CNN, a judge in South Carolina has decided former Trump White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows must testify before a special grand jury in Fulton County, Georgia.
 
CNN's Political Correspondent Sara Murray joining us now. So, this feels like a big deal. Tell us more about the judge's ruling, Sara.
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. The judge just ruled in this matter and here is what the judge had to say. I'm going to find that the witness, Mark Meadows, as you were talking about, is material and necessary to the investigation. He points out the state of Georgia is assuring this is now going to cause any undue hardship for Meadows to show up.
 
Now, the reason this has to go through a South Carolina judge is because the Georgia prosecutor is looking for an out of state witness. Meadows lives in South Carolina, so the South Carolina judge needs to sign off on this subpoena.
 
It is a big deal because Meadows' attorneys were trying to argue he shouldn't have to appear, that there are executive privilege issues at play. They were taking issue with whether this really is a criminal proceeding. The judge didn't buy in to that. He said, look, some of these arguments, if you want to make them, you are going to have to make them in Georgia.
 
Now, Meadows' attorney already spoke to folks on the ground, including our CNN producer who attended this hearing in person, and said that he does plan to appeal this ruling. So, I doubt this will be the final word, as far as Mark Meadows is concerned. We've seen with other subpoenas he received, particularly with the January 6 committee subpoena, he has been trying to fight that, again, on the grounds of executive privilege. So, I suspect this fight is going to carry on.
 
HILL:  Yes, it's going to keep going, which I guess was expected, to your point, Sara. But it is an important step along the way. Sara Murray, I appreciate the updates. Thank you.
 
Also just into CNN, this news, the U.S. responding to Iran's crackdown on protests over women's rights with a fresh round of U.S. sanctions. We'll tell who the targets, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
HILL:  This just into CNN. We're learning the U.S. is imposing a slew of new sanctions against Iranian officials. The sanctions come in response to Tehran's efforts to quash weeks now of protests following the death of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini.
 
CNN National Security Correspondent Kylie Atwood is live at the State Department with these new developments for us.
 
So, who are the targets here in these new sanctions, Kylie?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. So, there are a number of groups that the Biden administration is targeting with these new sanctions. First of all, specifically, three commanders in the IRGC, who, in the statement from Secretary of State Tony Blinken, they say that those folks are actually involved in the violence crackdowns, what he calls brutal crackdowns on the Iranian protestors that are happening currently. There are also sanctions going after those who work at Iranian prisons.
 
There are also sanctions going after those who are involved in what they call the censorship of the Iranian people. We have talked a lot about how the Iranians are trying to get on the internet and the Iranian regime is making that tough. So, the Biden administration is also going after folks in that group.
 
The secretary of state saying that the United States stands with the Iranian people and is committed to making sure that those who are responsible for these violent crackdowns on the Iranian protestors are held accountable.
 
Now, we should also note that this comes on the day that marks 40 days since the death of 22-year-old Iranian protestor Mahsa Amini that really set off this spark with these protestors first beginning among Iranian women and then spreading to other parts and other sectors of the country.
 
HILL:  It's an important development. We'll continue to watch it as well. Kylie Atwood, I appreciate it, thank you.
 
Well, one month after Hurricane Ian hammered Southwest Florida, people say they are hitting blocks in this very long road to recovery, some still waiting on much needed money to try to start the process of moving forward. That is ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
HILL:  Four weeks after Hurricane Ian devastated parts of Florida, many people and neighborhoods struggling to recover, some of them waiting on insurance to help them bounce back, others are still without power and running water.
 
CNN's Carlos Suarez is in Southwest Florida there to get a closer look at this road to recover, and it is a tough one, Carlos. What are you hearing from people?
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Erica, there is a great deal of frustration from folks across Southwest Florida when it comes to the number, the degree of debris and garbage that still litters neighborhood out here. In fact, just a few minutes ago, the governor, who had a briefing not too far from where we are, announced that FEMA is now going to start using some satellite photos to better identified some of these parts of Lee County that are in desperate need of some of this debris removal.
 
You cannot walk too far around Southwest Florida without running into just parts of homes, debris that covers streets, these large yachts that have been left there since this hurricane hit. Some 500 or so people are still at one hurricane shelter here in Lee County. We caught up with one woman who has been there since the very beginning. She's been there with her two kids after Hurricane Ian damaged the apartment she lived in.
 
Now, here in Fort Myers Beach, there are several parts of this barrier island that are still without power and still without water. And now homeowners, while they are having to deal with the difficult process of not only dealing with their insurance provider, but if they didn't have insurance to begin with, they're now having to rely on FEMA for some assistance.
 
We caught up with one woman who had flood insurance but some of the damage happened to her roof. That was brought on by the wind. And so now she is still waiting to hear back from her insurance to see exactly how much of the damage at her house is going to be covered. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JUDY JONES, HOME DESTROYED BY HURRICANE IAN:  The people next door who don't have insurance, FEMA came and cut them a large check already in three days. So, it is like if you don't have insurance, you seem get more than if you do have insurance, because you are starting over with everything in your life.
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
95 percent of my stuff is gone. You have nowhere to turn as far as a guide to what you're supposed to do.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUAREZ:  All right. So, patience, as you can imagine, out here is running really thin. The folks that live on Fort Myers Beach, they're still upset that, right now, they're only being allowed to access the barrier island five days a week, from 9:00 in the morning until 5:00 in the afternoon. Then they have to get out.
 
Emergency officials have left the other two days of the week only contractors. These are folks that are coming out here to do exactly a handful of things. Their job is to try to get the power back up, to get the water system in place and to start some of that debris removal process. But Lee County officials, emergency officials out here tell us it is going to be several more weeks before folks can see a noticeable change in some of this debris being taken from their streets. Erica?
 
HILL:  It is a massive undertaking. Understandable why it takes so long and yet at the same time that frustration, I mean, you get it, it has already been a month.
 
Carlos, I really appreciate you being back there and bring us those stories. Thank you.
 
Thanks to all of you for joining us today. I'm Erica Hill.
 
Stay tuned. At This Hour with Kate Bolduan begins after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:00]