Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Harley Finkelstein is Interviewed about Black Friday Sales; Russell Levinson Jr. is Interviewed about the Bushs; Vikings Rally Patriots. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired November 25, 2022 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:30:53] 
 
JIMMY FALLON, HOST, "THE TONIGHT SHOW STARRING JIMMY FALLON": Of course Thanksgiving was a little different this year. Your cousin, who was super into crypto last Thanksgiving, not so chatty anymore, huh. 
 
I actually saw that due to rising prices of turkey and other meats, a lot of people served plant-based alternatives. So, if you want to know why Arby's and Taco Bell are open on Thanksgiving, that's why. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR: We have that dilemma. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: I would totally go to Taco Bell. 
 
LEMON: Our - 
 
COLLINS: Why?
 
LEMON: We had to do appetizers. And so we had like -- it was beef and pork meatballs and whatever and like, oh, wait a minute, there's a lot of vegetarians. 
 
COLLINS: Why, someone's a vegetarian. 
 
LEMON: Yes, grab a vegetable.
 
COLLINS: This is not your holiday. Not your holiday.
 
LEMON: So, we saw Alison Kosik out. She's at the famous Macy's in Harold Square, Remember "Miracle on 34th Street," that Macy's. It's still early but millions have already had a jumpstart on Black Friday shopping or, as Chad Myers calls it, slick Friday. 
 
Are we tracking - and we're tracking purchases, yes, we are, all across the country in real time. This is with the data and the trends. And Spotify President Harley Finkelstein will show us. We're going to go to him now.
 
Good morning, sir. How are you? 
 
HARLEY FINKELSTEIN, PRESIDENT, SHOPIFY: Good morning. It's Shopify, by the way. Spotify's another great company. But Shopify.
 
LEMON: Oh, so what did I say? 
 
FINKELSTEIN: You said Spotify. It's a great company.
 
LEMON: I said Shopify?
 
FINKELSTEIN: I love them too, but Shopify is totally different.
 
LEMON: I got shopping on the brain. So -
 
COLLINS: You can listen to music while you shop. 
 
LEMON: Thank you. It's - it's - it is -
 
FINKELSTEIN: Actually, that's like a partnership made in heaven. 
 
LEMON: All right, so, I'm a little froggy - foggy this morning.
 
COLLINS: Also froggy.
 
LEMON: I can barely talk.
 
COLLINS: It's OK.
 
LEMON: Happy belated Thanksgiving. So glad you could join us. 
 
So, what are - what are the trends showing? What are we seeing? 
 
FINKELSTEIN: So, let's kind of start at the top here. 
 
This Black Friday, Cyber Monday, first and foremost, it seems less frantic. There is less supply chain issues. There are more physical stores that are open. And there's been better capacity planning. And so we're seeing a lot more stability, I think, than before. 
 
If you go back to last year, Shopify saw, during the four days, like Black Friday/Cyber Monday, but 47 million shoppers shop across our stores. They sold - they sold about $6.3 billion of sale. And we saw a peak of $3.1 million happen on -- per minute on Black Friday. That was the peak. 
 
So, so far what we're seeing today, again, it's still very early, Black Friday has really just begun. But yesterday peak sales were about 1.52 million per minute at around 6:04 p.m. last year. That's up from about 1.49 at the peak last year for Thanksgiving. 
 
We're also seeing that the average cart price is up relative to last year. We're seeing our average cart price around $109, compared to $105 last year. 
 
If you think about what product categories are doing really well, there are five that are - that seem to be really hitting out of the park. The first is apparel and accessories. The second is health and beauty. Third is home and garden. Fourth is food and beverage. And fifth is electronics. So, you're - you are seeing healthy shopping across a lot of different verticals. And Shopify is -- 
 
LEMON: Wait, wait, what are those again? You said the first one's what? 
 
FINKELSTEIN: So, apparel and accessories. 
 
LEMON: Apparel. OK.
 
FINKELSTEIN: Health and beauty. 
 
LEMON: All right.
 
FINKELSTEIN: Home and garden. Food and beverage. And electronics. 
 
LEMON: Why is electronics - that's low. I thought it would be higher. 
 
FINKELSTEIN: Well, it's not necessarily low, it's just low relative to some of the others. In fact, if you look at our top trend products right now, three out of the four are actually cosmetics. Pat McGrath Labs, MERIT Beauty and Beachwaver curling iron. The fourth is Our Place, which is the always plan, which is this amazing cooking pans. So, you are seeing a lot of cosmetics get a lot of attention right now. 
 
The other thing, Don, that is important to see here is that physical retail is absolutely back. 
 
LEMON: Wow.
 
FINKELSTEIN: Point of sale, like physical retail sales, made by Shopify merchants in the U.S. have grown 26 percent since Thanksgiving last year. So, definitely consumers are going into those stores. 
 
And in terms of, you know, what we're seeing at Shopify, if you go right now, anyone can see this, if you go to datastories.shopify.com, you will see a real live map of exactly what is happening across global commerce. Shopify has millions of stores. We have about 10 percent of all ecommerce in the U.S. goes through Shopify. And right now we're seeing almost 3 million unique shoppers - you know, it's 6:00, 6:30 in the morning EST, but 3 million unique shoppers shopping across Shopify stores. Sales per minute are above 850,000 per minute. 
 
COLLINS: But, Harley -
 
FINKELSTEIN: So, there's a lot of attention right now. A lot of action. 
 
COLLINS: Well, with all this action that we're seeing, are you surprised by this because, obviously, the big conversation that we have about the economy, you know, nearly every day is about inflation and concerns that people have and the poor economic outlook that so many Americans have. 
 <br>[06:35:11]
 
But is that not being reflected in what you're seeing in these shopping habits from consumers today? 
 
FINKELSTEIN: You know, I -- I actually -- I heard this on your show on Wednesday. You folks were talking about the Consumer Sentiment Index. So, the Consumer Sentiment Index, which was expected to be 54.9 points, on Wednesday it was reported at 56.8 points. So, the Consumer Sentiment Index is even higher than what people saw it - what people thought it would be. And we've already seen really positive predictions for this holiday season. 
 
So, you know, a couple things, it's way to early to say exactly what's going to happen here. But we already - we were already seeing numbers slightly up from last year based on Thanksgiving peek sales per minute. 
 
And I think that, you know, one of the - one of the other major, you know, takeaways from this, this season is, this Black Friday/Cyber Monday period is no longer just a weekend. It's really become a season. 
 
LEMON: That's what you were saying. 
 
FINKELSTEIN: And I think that a lot of consumers were shopping earlier and looking for discounts. 
 
But the major trend here is intentionality. We really are seeing that consumers are buying in a very intentional way. They want to buy from their favorite brands. They do want to find discounts, but they want to support their favorite brands and they want to buy direct as much as possible. 
 
LEMON: So, Kaitlan and I - Kaitlan was just saying that she was -- about Black Friday, that you thought it was not just a day.
 
COLLINS: It's changed so much. We -- my family, when I was younger, we used to get up early. We'd go physically to the stores to wait in line. 
 
FINKELSTEIN: (INAUDIBLE). You'd line up, I think, right? You'd get - you'd line up outside. Sure. 
 
COLLINS: Exactly. You'd line up. 
 
FINKELSTEIN: Yes.
 
COLLINS: And you just don't seem to see that anymore because as you were - as you were talking about -
 
LEMON: All those people like killing themselves for televisions and remember like (INAUDIBLE)? 
 
FINKELSTEIN: Yes.
 
COLLINS: Yes. It was crazy. FINKELSTEIN: That's right, you always had - you always had the crazy -
 
 you know, the doors open, everyone kind of tramples on each other. 
 
That, I mean, you may see some of that today. I don't know if that's going to be the case or not. You're just seeing less of it. And part of it is that I think we've extended this Black Friday/Cyber Monday weekend into more of a season. And I think when you layer on top of that this - this - this real propensity for consumers to like - you know, what I'm buying right now are my favorite brands. I'm buying Vuori. I'm buying Alo Yoga. I'm buying James Perse. I'm buying Bleusalt. I want to support the brands that I love the most. And, lucky for me, those are all Shopify brands. 
 
But I think there is more intentionality now around buying great value and actually, you know, supporting brands and voting with your wallets for those brands to exist. 
 
LEMON: I think it's amazing, if we look at - and we have it on the wall over here. Like, that's why I keep looking - I'm not ignoring Kaitlan, we were looking at the wall over here, looking at all of the - I mean this is pretty amazing how you guys track this stuff. So, you can do the United States. You can do worldwide. You can do other countries. 
 
What about worldwide? I mean this -- we're an international show. Is this, what's happening in the United States, is that reflected worldwide? 
 
FINKELSTEIN: Yes, so we're an international company. Shopify has millions of stores in more than 175 countries. We really are the dominant commerce player, not just for people getting started, but also for very large brands, whether it's Spanx or it's Mattel or it's companies like Allbirds or FIGS or Bombas or Gymshark. So, we have merchants in 175 countries. And this is reflective around the world. 
 
Now, Black Friday really started as a U.S. Thing. It really was something that started in the U.S. but it really has -- has migrated all over the world. I'm in Canada today. It's a big day in Canada as well. So, again, it's everywhere and it's not just four days, but this is certainly going to be the day to watch. 
 
If you're interested in really geeky, nerdy retail and commerce data, check out datastories.shopify.com. You'll see everything. And it's happening in hyper real time. It's really cool. 
 
COLLINS: I -
 
LEMON: Yes. We just want to know where the sales are. 
 
COLLINS: Yes, just send them to Don and I directly.
 
FINKELSTEIN: Good plan (ph).
 
COLLINS: All right, Harley, thank you so much for breaking all that down. 
 
LEMON: Thanks, Harley. 
 
FINKELSTEIN: Thank you. Thanks so much.
 
LEMON: Have a great holiday season. We'll see you soon. Thanks.
 
FINKELSTEIN: You as well. Happy holidays.
 
LEMON: Thank you.
 
COLLINS: All right, also this morning, this is Twitter. Every day there's a headline about what's happening. 
 
LEMON: I know.
 
COLLINS: This time Elon Musk is saying he's going to restore banned Twitter accounts, a move that one unexpert says is like opening the gates of hell. 
 
LEMON: Plus, no arrests, no leads nearly two weeks after four University of Idaho students were murdered, but why police say they are, quote, definitely making progress. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:42:50]
 
LEMON: It's beginning to look like - we looks so weird. Look at us. 
 
COLLINS: I can't stop - I mean, speaking of Black Friday, maybe we should buy some new clothes so we don't look like identical twins. 
 
LEMON: We - we did not plan this. 
 
COLLINS: I know. Great minds dress alike. 
 
LEMON: The holiday season is here,, which means the classic movies and TV specials are back. This year, CNN is bringing you a unique look at all your favorites. 
 
A quick preview for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TOM HANKS, ACTOR: Christmas movies and television specials are always about someone who has lost their faith in humankind regaining it. 
 
PHIL ROSENTHAL, CREATOR, "EVERYBODY LOVES RAYMOND": "A Christmas Story" is one of the best movies about nostalgia, family and Christmas. 
 
SARA SIDNER, JOURNALIST, CNN: I watch it every year at least twice. It's the script of my life. 
 
RAMI MALEK, ACTOR: It's hard to beat "Home Alone." Just fun and hijinks. 
 
DAVID E. TALBERT, WRITER/DIRECTOR: It is on the Mount Rushmore of holiday movies. 
 
RON HOWARD, DIRECTOR: I lost myself in "Miracle on 34th Street."
 
ALONSO DURALDE, FILM CRITIC/AUTHOR: "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation" was capturing how the holidays make us all insane. 
 
BEN MANKIEWICZ, HOST, "TURNER CLASSIC MOVIES": There is that consistent Christmas element in "Elf" of change, of realization. 
 
TIM NAFTALI, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Watch a good Christmas show and it doesn't matter when it was made. These ideas don't get old. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Unwrap the stories behind everything we love to watch at Christmas. A two-hour special event "Tis the Season: The Holidays on Screen."
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON: "Tis the Season: The Holidays on Screen" premieres Sunday, 8:00 p.m. Eastern, only on CNN. I will be watching that. What's your favorite? 
 
COLLINS: I feel like the minute Thanksgiving dinner is over and you're packing up the leftovers, it's Christmas season, and it's time to watch movies. 
 
LEMON: I think it's before. But she - she is -- we put up our Christmas tree -
 
COLLINS: I know. I think you're crazy.
 
LEMON: She's like, too soon. 
 
COLLINS: It's too soon. 
 
LEMON: She's already up (ph).
 
COLLINS: It is a hard and fast rule it's the day after Thanksgiving. 
 
LEMON: I put up our Christmas tree on Tuesday. 
 
COLLINS: That's not too bad. I guess that's not too bad.
 
LEMON: What's your favorite Christmas movie? 
 
COLLINS: I was just watching that, and I agree with Alonso about "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation." We always watch it. And, you know, the couple in it that's like - they're like neighbors next door that are kind of like pretentious and above all the craziness and they're like fancy. 
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
COLLINS: My family always makes fun of me and says that's me where they're like, why is the carpet all wet, Todd? 
 
LEMON: Oh.
 <br>[06:45:00]
 
COLLINS: I'm telling, if my family's watching this, they always say that I'm Margo. And I'm like, that is so unfair. 
 
LEMON: I am a little bit more traditional. 
 
COLLINS: I know. I picked a funny one and you're like a classy -
 
LEMON: "It's a Wonderful Life." I always cry. And I feel like I live in a -- I mean, I love it. It is the best movie. I cry every year. And I know what's going to happen. And then, what's the other one? "Miracle on 34th Street." 
 
COLLINS: That's a good one.
 
LEMON: The one with Natalie Wood. 
 
COLLINS: That's a good one. The Charlie Brown one. 
 
LEMON: I love it. The courtroom scene. Have you -- do you - do you know this movie? 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
LEMON: So, when they bring - they're like, Santa Claus doesn't exist. And they said -- I'm not giving it away. But if it's recognized by the U.S. -- 
 
COLLINS: It's been out for like decades. 
 
LEMON: Well, I mean, some kids may be watching.
 
COLLINS: Spoiler alert.
 
LEMON: If the U.S. government recognizes that Santa Claus is real -
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
LEMON: Then Santa Claus is real and that he is the Santa Claus. And then they bring in all of this mail that people have sent to Santa Claus to the U.S. Post Office and said, that's it, he is Santa Claus, Kris Kringle. And then the other one is "Scrooge," I think it's "A Christmas Carol." Is that right?
 
COLLINS: "A Christmas Carol." 
 
LEMON: The one with Alastair Sim, the black and white one. 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
LEMON: Not any of the other ones. The other ones are not real. That's my favorite.
 
COLLINS: It's funny how people just rewatch Christmas movies. Like, they never get old. 
 
LEMON: Over and over.
 
COLLINS: Even though you know - you can like quote them.
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
COLLINS: I'm going to watch the new - we're - I'm going home today. We're going to watch the Will Ferrell/Ryan Reynolds new one that just came out. 
 
LEMON: Oh, yes, yes, yes.
 
COLLINS: It's going to be fun, I think. 
 
LEMON: We want - we're trying to get Will to come on. We're working on that. That could happen.
 
COLLINS: Well, we'll see. It looks like a good movie. 
 
LEMON: Do you - what's the other one? Do you like -- like animated - I mean you're a bit older than me, the animated ones like "Rudolph"? Did you used to do that?
 
COLLINS: Yes, I - those -- we always watched those growing up.
 
LEMON: OK, good.
 
COLLINS: You know, Charlie Brown Christmas tree, all those were just classics. 
 
LEMON: Yes. Those are good. 
 
All right, well, back to work. We forgot -- I forgot we were on television for a minute. 
 
COLLINS: I know.
 
LEMON: The Lakers Patrick Beverly suspended for a shoving incident in part because of his history of unsportsmanlike conduct on the court. 
 
COLLINS: Also, President Biden and the first lady made a Thanksgiving call expressing their condolences to the owners of the Club Q in Colorado Springs. They also spoke to the hero in that story. We'll tell you more about those conversations. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:51:13]
 
REV. RUSSELL LEVENSON JR., ST. MARTIN'S EPISCOPAL CHURCH: President Bush was a good man, a decent man, a godly man, full of grace and love and equality of absolute necessity to enter the kingdom of God, humility, grounded in a desire to serve his God and all God sent his way. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: You might remember that moving eulogy from Reverend Russell Levinson Jr. for former President George H.W. Bush. That was at his state funeral in D.C. in 2018. Now the reverend is reflecting on the firsthand experience that he had, spending so much time, intimate time, with the former president and his wife, Barbara, and their relationship with faith. It's in his new book, "Witness to Dignity: The Life and Faith of George H.W. and Barbara Bush." 
 
And the Reverend Russell Levenson Jr. of St. Martin's Episcopal Church is joining us now.
 
So, we're so grateful you're getting up with us from Birmingham, Alabama, where I'm --. 
 
LEMON: Good morning. Can I just say, before Kaitlan starts, it's a -- we have the book. It's such a beautiful book.
 
COLLINS: It's amazing. 
 
LEMON: And the photo on the cover, I mean, it's just fantastic. And I cannot -- I haven't had a chance to read it. I cannot wait to read it. 
 
But, happy belated Thanksgiving. Thanks for joining us today.
 
COLLINS: You're going to love it. 
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
COLLINS: It's really so interesting. 
 
And I loved what you said, that you kind of felt like given, Reverend, that you had this first-hand experience with them, that you kind of felt like you had a responsibility to share the wisdom that you - that you learned from them and that you saw them talk about so much. 
 
REV. RUSSELL LEVENSON JR., RECTOR, ST. MARTIN'S EPISCOPAL CHURCH: Yes, I mean, when the -- it's good to be on with you. I will say, I did catch the end of the last segment and you forgot "The Bishop's Wife." I would add that to the list of great Christmas movies. 
 
LEMON: Oh, that -- that's really good. You're right about that. We missed it. 
 
LEVENSON: Since we're hitting theological notes this morning. 
 
Yes, you know, my wife, Laura (ph), and I said that we were fortunate to kind of live in the university of George H.W. Bush and Barbara Bush for eleven and a half years. And - and that's what the book is about. It really is about our experience of knowing them and getting to know them and getting to watch them, which inspired the title, really. It's my witness box moment for eleven and a half years of watching the way in which they lived their lives, the way in which they lived with others and treated others. And - and really, I think, really born of their true and earnest faith which carried them all the way to the end, which is I -- as you just pointed out, Kaitlan, that I was there for both of them as they died and was able to plan their funerals with them. 
 
But they were just wonderful, dignified, decent, godly people. Not perfect. You know, quick to say, nobody is. That's my boss' job. But everybody that was around them, particularly those last several years, got to watch really them grow in their faith such that when it came to the end they were at peace and really in charity with everybody around them. 
 
LEMON: Yes. You know, it's interesting, you know, because presidents have to deal so much - you know, deal with so much when they're in office, right, with world affairs, right, and so they have to make really tough decisions. But I think, and you can tell me if I'm wrong or not, you can judge someone, a president, or a former president and first lady, by their time after they are in office, what they choose to do with their time. The people they choose to spend their time with. The causes they choose to take up. 
 
And when you talk about the dignity, I mean, look, you -- the testimonials that's in your book are from people from all walks of life, all different political stripes, all different backgrounds, all different ethnicities, said a lot about the Bushs. 
 
LEVENSON: Yes, I think, you know, you played that little clip from the - the funeral, which I appreciate. But I - I will say, there were - I really -- when - when we were moving through those funerals, Barbara's funeral in Houston, and the president's funeral in D.C., back in Houston, what you saw was a coming together in a remarkable way of parties and people and perspectives that, you know, so rarely happens in the time in which we live right now. 
 <br>[06:55:08]
 
And I think that was also perhaps one of the reasons for writing the book. There's several moments (INAUDIBLE) when I come back to the book where I say how they were able to bring people together. I mean, who - who would have guessed that President Bush and President Clinton would have had this remarkable friendship to reach out and offer service on the heels of several, you know, crises, natural disasters. But - but they really -- I mean, particularly the Bushs, felt like that there weren't really lines in concrete, there were lines in the sand, and you kind of brushed those aside at times when the need for the greater good was there. 
 
And that really was, you know, I think that was the shape of his presidency. He did so much in a bipartisan way. And - and as you say, Don, when - when they left office, they could have just hung up their coats and retired quietly, but they serve and gave right up until the end. And I think that's one of the lessons that - that I learned, the way to live your life right up to the end in such a powerful and fruitful way. 
 
COLLINS: And what about the lessons that political leaders now could have? Because, you know, anyone can look at the climate in the United States and see that it's incredibly troubled. And I think you said that, you know, part of the book is talking about having godly, dignified leaders of character is not only possible but it's necessary. 
 
LEVENSON: Yes, I think so. I -- you know, I think it's important to note, and I say this again in the book, I don't -- you know, we -- we're not -- we never elect a theologian-in-chief. So I'm - I don't think the president, from what I know and what I watched, or Barbara, used their faith to further their political aims or goals. I think they were shaped by their faith, grew up in the faith, they were shaped by their relationship with their Lord and - and their faithfulness in such a way that that played out in their -- in his policy making and the way in which they took on very important service initiatives throughout the country. 
 
And, you know, I think if you look at the chief ethic of the Judeo Christian faith, which is what they were adherence to, they were faithful Episcopalians and that chief ethic is love and charity and kindness and the way in which we should deal with others. I don't think they saw political opponents. I don't think they ever saw them as enemies. I think they saw them as opponents. But I think often they found a way to work together with those folks. And I think that sprung out of their faith. 
 
So, I think when we do choose people to lead us, we want people who don't use their faith to further their aims, but they are informed and shaped by their faith to make a difference in the world. And look at what he did in those four years he had in office. 
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
LEVENSON: And look at what they did in the 11 years or so that I knew them on so many service initiatives that I saw, again, up until the end of their lives. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. It's a lovely message.
 
LEMON: Thank you. 
 
The book is called "Witness to Dignity: The Life and Faith of George H.W. and Barbara Bush." It's a beautiful, beautiful book. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. 
 
Reverend, thank you so much for coming on with us. 
 
LEMON: Thank you.
 
LEVENSON: God bless. 
 
LEMON: Be well. 
 
So, listen, we were talking about -- it was a thrilling football - a thrilling Thanksgiving Day for football fans, including Poppy Harlow, who was at the Vikings game last night. 
 
Andy Scholes has all the latest on the game day highlights. 
 
Andy, hello to you. Poppy's happy this morning. 
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Oh, I'm sure she is. I saw her Instagram. She was having the time of her life last night, as were all the Vikings fans. You know, they were - they were certainly pumped up because it was their first ever Thanksgiving Day game that they got to host. They were taking on the Patriots. 
 
Now, in the third quarter we had a little bit of controversy. New England thought they had a touchdown right here, Mac Jones to Hunter Henry. Certainly looks like a great catch. They called it a touchdown. But upon review, they said it was incomplete. The ball hit the ground. Patriots couldn't believe it. Henry saying afterwards he thought he had his hands under it the whole time. Pats had to settle for a field goal there. They took a three-point lead. With the game tied in the fourth quarter, Kirk Cousins to Adam Thielen for the score there. That was his third TD pass of the game. Vikings take the lead for good. They would win, 33-26. 
 
The Bills, meanwhile, playing in Detroit for the second time in five days. And before the game, check this out. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh my God! 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: So that fan had a sign that said all I want for Christmas is to play catch with Stefon Diggs. Well, Diggs is in the holiday spirit, as you can see. Grabbed that fan. Took him onto the field and played catch with him. That's pretty awesome. 
 
And then Diggs coming up huge in the game after a Detroit field goal tied it up at 20 - tied the game up with just 23 seconds left. Josh Allen, a missile to Diggs over the middle. A great catch. Set up the Bills for a game-winning field goal. 
 <br>[07:00:01]
 
They beat the Lions, 28-25, improved to 8-3 on the season. 
 
And finally, the Cowboys trying to snap a three game Turkey Day losing streak, hosting.