Headline: The Global Brief with Bianca Nobilo
Sub-headline: Joe Biden Meets Xi Jinping; Zelensky Visits Kherson; Bezos' Charity Pledge. Aired 5-5:30p ET

Aired November 14, 2022 - 17:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[16:59:37]
 
ISA SOARES, CNN HOST:  Hello and welcome, everyone. I'm Isa Soares in London. This is THE GLOBAL BRIEF. 
 
Just ahead right here -- there will be no new cold war, U.S. President Joe Biden says soon after meeting his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping. 
 
Then, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visits a liberated Kherson City where he warns of a difficult path ahead to rebuild. 
 
And in an exclusive interview with CNN, one of the world's richest man, Jeff Bezos, vows to give most of his fortune to charity. 
 <br>[17:00:09]
 
But first, it was no kumbaya. That is according to U.S. President Joe Biden. For the first time in his presidency, he sat down face to face with 
 
 Chinese President Xi in Bali, as you can see there, on Monday. He tried to pull U.S. and China's contentions relationship. 
 
The two leaders have met multiple times before, but never during a time of such streamed tensions. Mr. Biden said the U.S. isn't looking for conflict, 
 
 even as the two countries vigorously compete. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I absolutely believe that there need not be a new Cold War. I've met many times which Xi Jinping, and we 
 
 were candid and clear across the board. 
 
(END VIDE CLIP)
 
SOARES:  Well, Taiwan, Ukraine, New Korea, climate, human rights, trade, out of technology -- they were all on the agenda as the two presidents 
 
 talked for three hours. At the very least, they agree to keep talking at work tool avoid conflict. 
 
But it's the Taiwan that poses perhaps the biggest challenge as the U.S. and China are trying to keep things peaceful. After Monday's meeting, 
 
 President Biden said he doesn't think mainland invasion of the island is eminent. But Mr. Xi bluntly warned the island's status is, quote, the first 
 
 red line that must not be crossed. 
 
Our Selina Wang shows us what's at stake there. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  U.S. President Joe Biden's first face-to-face meeting since taking office with Chinese 
 
 Leader Xi Jinping. 
 
Xi telling Biden the U.S. China relationship isn't meeting the world's expectations. 
 
XI JINPING, PRESIDENT OF CHINA (through translator):  I look forward to working with you, Mr. President, to bring China-U.S. relations back to the 
 
 track of healthy and stable growth. 
 
WANG:  After the meeting, Biden tells the press -- 
 
BIDEN:  I do not think there's any imminent attempt on the part of China to invade Taiwan. 
 
WANG:  But despite the optimistic tone and smiles, the possibility of armed conflict still looms. 
 
Xi just days before wearing camouflage uniform at a military command center in Beijing, telling China's army to prepare for war. His visit met with 
 
 excited applause from top military officials. 
 
Beijing has stepped up pressure on self-ruled democratic Taiwan after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi visited the island in August, firing repeated missiles 
 
 and encircling Taiwan in a practice blockade. Xi vowing to reunify the island that China sees as a breakaway province, using force if necessary. 
 
BIDEN:  Yes, we have a commitment to do that. 
 
WANG:  Meanwhile, Biden infuriating Beijing with his repeated comments that America would come to Taiwan's aid in the event of a Chinese invasion. 
 
Washington promising to brief Taiwanese officials on the outcome of the Biden-Xi meeting, angering Beijing even more. 
 
ZHAO LIJIAN, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON (through translator):  This is truly egregious and China firmly rejects this. 
 
WANG:  State media writing facts show that the U.S. understanding of the red line of China-U.S. relations is far from adequate. That tense 
 
 atmosphere, a far cry from the smiles and warm handshakes during their many meetings back when Biden was vice president. 
 
BIDEN:  I've spent time with him more than any other world leader. I know him well. He knows me. 
 
WANG:  But that personal relationship not enough to bridge the chasm between the two countries. The Biden administration labeling China as 
 
 America's most consequential geopolitical challenge, enacting sweeping restrictions that choke off China's access to advanced computer chips. 
 
 Beijing sees all of this as Washington trying to suppress its rise.
 
As Xi aligns himself with other autocratic leaders like Russia's Vladimir Putin, China and the U.S. have agreed to keep lines of communication open 
 
 between top officials. It could be what stops a miscalculation between the world's superpowers from spiraling into real conflict. 
 
Selina Wang, CNN, Beijing.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES:  Well, President Biden says recent elections in the U.S. made an emphatic statement. That in America the will of the people prevails. He and 
 
 fellow Democrats are celebrating after the defied expectations and held off a Republican red wave. The Senate race in Nevada was called over the 
 
 weekend, giving Democrats the edge. But Republicans are inching closer to control of the House. 
 
They have a slim majority, with 19 races left, of course, still almost no one predicted it would be -- 218 as you can see there on your screen. 
 
 Democrats had warned that democracy itself was on the ballot the year after the Capitol insurrection. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN:  What we saw was the strength and resilience of American democracy and we saw it action.
 <br>[17:05:03]
 
And the American people proved once again that democracy is who we are. There is a strong rejection of election deniers at every level from those 
 
 seeking to lead our states, and those that are seeking to serve in Congress, and also those seeking to oversee the elections. And there was a 
 
 strong rejection of political violence and voter intimidation. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  Well, let's get more now from CNN's Jeff Zeleny, who's live in Washington. 
 
Jeff, great to see you this evening. Look, Democrats controlling the Senate, Republicans likely taking the house. We could be looking at a 
 
 divided Congress.
 
What does it all mean for President Biden and his agenda? How challenging, Jeff, could this be for? 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  It certainly is challenging, we're not nearly as challenging as the president in the 
 
 White House was bracing for. And the reason is this, Democrats keeping control of the U.S. Senate, it's really monumental because it allows the 
 
 rest of the Biden agenda from the second half of his presidency to go forward through a judicial appointments. One of the biggest powers that the 
 
 presidency of course is appointing judges, so this is something that you'll be able to do without any disruption, as well as appointing other cabinet 
 
 members, ambassadors, people to serve in his administration. 
 
So, holding the Senate for Democrats, that was absolutely huge. Now, Republicans are likely to have a narrow majority in the House, it's still 
 
 being worked out, they have a mess on their own hands, they're deciding if their leadership election, but even a small majority certainly a headache 
 
 for the White House in terms of investigations, in terms of oversight, we'll certainly see a lot about the White House being called into question, 
 
 what they're doing, Hunter Biden, of course, he's at the center of a lot of investigations and interest from Republicans.
 
But the majority is likely to end only on somewhere in the single digits, five seats, eight seats at the most. So, certainly, not nearly as big of a 
 
 Republican, a majority, as White House though. So, a headache but not a disaster that many Democrats are bracing for. 
 
SOARES:  Let's talk about tomorrow. We are expecting to hear some kind of announcement I believe from former President Donald Trump. Do we think he's 
 
 going to throw his hat in the ring and how will this be received by the Republicans, given how the Republicans fared, the candidates fared that he 
 
 backed in these midterms, Jeff? 
 
ZELENY:  Republicans really are just bracing for this announcement. Even supporters of the former president, which she would not be doing this right 
 
 now. But by all accounts, his advisers are telling us he does plan tomorrow evening at 9:00 Eastern Time in Florida at his Mar-a-Lago resort to 
 
 announce that he is going to run for president again in 2024. And again, we have not seen as many prominent Republicans and Republican groups and 
 
 conservative groups coming out in advance of this. 
 
And -- that time since he started running back in 2016. They really blame him and his, and the candidates he supported for losing the midterm 
 
 elections in the Senate. So, they're bracing for the worst in some respects. We'll see how this happens. We've seen Donald Trump of course 
 
 pushed through this when some questions and criticism from Republicans before. But this certainly, he's going for it. 
 
But, boy, he doesn't seem to have many officials at least behind him, yes. But this is going to open the door to big issue on the Republican side and 
 
 could threaten that runoff race in Georgia as well. 
 
SOARES:  Interesting. We'll keep an eye, of course, on all the developments tomorrow. Jeff Zeleny, great to see you. Thank you very much. 
 
ZELENY:  Sure.
 
SOARES:  Now, Ukraine is promising its victory over Russia will be absolute. Officials telling U.S. that there will be no negotiations with 
 
 Moscow until Russia has totally withdrawn its troops. The U.S. is keeping its communication with Russia opened. On Monday, the director of the CIA 
 
 met with his Russian counterpart in Turkey, saying the talks are necessary to manage risks, especially in nuclear kind. 
 
Meanwhile, Ukraine is celebrating its success in the liberated city of Kherson, while warning that Russia still in the region from the eastern 
 
 bank of the Dnipro River. Kherson's residents are facing hardships from an eight-month long occupation. But still, they're hopeful for their future, 
 
 and under the Ukrainian flag. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MYKHAILO, KHERSON RESIDENT:  We're ready to suffer as long as this is Ukraine. Of course, we'd like everything to come back to normal, so we have 
 
 water, electricity, an Internet. And then my child goes back to school. Anyway, it's better now than before. Even without electricity, water, and 
 
 Internet. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  That says everything. 
 
Nic Robertson is in the city of Kherson, where Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy paid a visit there on Monday. 
 
And, Nic, just talk to us, first of all, about the importance of the visit by President Zelenskyy to Kherson, and the timing of it, as we said 
 
 Ukrainian forces carry out the strikes on the east bank of the Dnipro River? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  You, know there is a lot in it, internationally and domestically. Domestically, clearly 
 
 important for the people of Kherson to show that the government is going to come to other aid, start supporting them, help fix the electricity, get the 
 
 water running again. But internationally, very clear message from president Zelenskyy saying, we're moving forward, we're ready for peace, but the 
 
 piece on the whole of Ukraine ruling out peace on Vladimir Putin's terms, which is Russia keeps part of Ukraine. 
 
I think that's what we're witnessing, the artillery barrages we've heard going over our head here in the past few days, landing on the other side of 
 
 the river. But here by accounts that are beginning to come through, they're pushing the Russian troops further back off that eastern bank of the river. 
 
 And that is -- the way that it appears. It may be happening. That would be a big strategic advantage that's developing for Ukrainian troops. To have 
 
 the Russian forces, who exited here in a huge hurry, exited Kherson in a huge hurry of few days ago, are still potentially on the run, and not 
 
 turning to fight potentially. Nevertheless, President Zelenskyy gear today, perhaps the closest it's been to the front lines in this war so far. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  Flanked by troops who helped liberate the city, President Zelenskyy made a lightning trip to Kherson Monday, the nation's 
 
 most significant victory in months. 
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT:  This is the beginning of the end of the war. You see our strong army, we are step by step coming to our 
 
 country to all the temporary and occupied territories. 
 
ROBERTSON:  A morale boost for the country and president alike.
 
Zelenskyy pledging peace on Ukraine's, not Russia's terms and vowing to reconnect Kherson's residents to the rest of the country. 
 
Today's flags, a much needed temporary cell phone tower erected, reconnecting residents to loved ones, cut off since the retreating Russians 
 
 destroyed the phone and Internet services. 
 
And a truck full of humanitarian aid, the first to arrive since liberation 72 hours ago, candles, bread, water handed out to eager residents who have 
 
 been without electricity and water since the Russian retreat. 
 
How much is this needed here? 
 
SVEYATOSLAV YRASH, UKRAINIAN PARLIAMENT MEMBER:  Desperately, I was thinking about people what was lacking, what they have lost, and basically 
 
 the supermarkets don't work, shops are crazy expensive or don't work. 
 
ROBERTSON:  In the city's neighborhoods, poorly stocked street markets hint at how much more help is needed. Some goods like drinking water nearly 
 
 impossible to find. 
 
What help do you need from the government now here? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Electricity, water, and very cold in the home -- very cold. 
 
ROBERTSON:  Within hours of Zelenskyy's visit, Russian artillery destroyed a house in the north of the city, a reminder Russian troops are not far 
 
 away. 
 
Where they retreated Friday, the pontoon they used to flee across now partially sunk. The once mighty bridge crippled by U.S. made HIMARS that 
 
 helped trigger the Russian collapse in tatters too. 
 
But the Russians didn't go far. And that's where the danger is for Kherson just on the other side of the bridge, that's where the Russian positions 
 
 are. They've dug in within easy shelling range of the city. 
 
Zelenskyy's visit perhaps the closest to the front line since the war began.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (on camera):  And I think our reporting gives you an idea of how quickly things are developing here on the other side of the river. Because 
 
 when we went to the bridge early this morning, the Russians were still just across from it. It appears this evening as if they may have been pushed 
 
 away from there by the Ukrainian advance. 
 
It's hard to confirm at the moment, but certainly, some Ukrainian officials are claiming that. 
 
SOARES:  I know you'll stay on top of that for us. Nic Robertson for us in Kherson, this evening, thank very much, Nic. Appreciate it. 
 
Well, throughout the war, Moscow's attacks have broken apart Ukrainian families. We're going to introduce you now to a six-year-old boy in 
 
 Mariupol, who lost both his parents during the first week of the invasion. 
 <br>[17:15:06]
 
He has now found a new home in Kyiv, with a loving couple who planned to adopt
 
Our Salma Abdelaziz has the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Like any six-year-old child, Ilya's energy is endless. He wants constant attention and 
 
 entertainment. He craves affection from the two people who care for him most. 
 
Now we have that love, they tell me, that love that makes you a family. We do not have this maybe, but our love is real. Maria and Vladimir are Ilya's 
 
 legal guardians. They have been a family for over six months. And the couple planned to formally adopt him and become parents to a child orphaned 
 
 by this war. 
 
The pair was forced to flee their home in the east for Kyiv because of shelling, but refused to give up on their dream of starting a family. 
 
This was such a difficult decision to adopt during a war, did you hesitate, did you think maybe that's not the right time? 
 
We had been planning to adopt for many, years he, says the war pushed us to make it happen sooner. Now we wonder, why did we ever wait? 
 
His mom was killed in Mariupol, his birthplace, she left home to find food and was struck down by shelling in the first week of war. Unaware of his 
 
 wife's fate, Ilya's father went looking for her the next day, only to lose his life, too. Ilya was left with neighbors, where he sheltered with 
 
 strangers for weeks in a cold dark basement. 
 
When they ran out of food, Ilya says, he started to eat his toys. Their newfound parents are trying to give Ilya a sense of security. 
 
But when we visit their home in Kyiv, we see that why that's a challenge. Blackouts caused by Russia strikes on the power grid, leave the family 
 
 without electricity for hours. 
 
Sometimes you get scared, she says, he was hysterical and will tell me it is like being back in Mariupol, in the basement, in the darkness. During 
 
 the outages, the young family tried to make things normal, playing games, watching movies, anything to ease as worried maligned. 
 
Do you get afraid in the dark? 
 
Not anymore, he says. I know the lights will come back on. 
 
And they do, during our interview, electricity is restored and he runs to switch on the light. Ready to play again, but first, he wants to put on his 
 
 Spider-man costume. He says it makes them feel strong, and brave. 
 
Salma Abdelaziz, CNN, Kyiv. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES:  Our little hero right there, little Ilya. I love that story. 
 
And still to come tonight. Families are beginning to bury victims of Sunday's deadly Istanbul attack. We're learning more about the suspect, 
 
 we'll bring you those details ahead. 
 
And part of our exclusive interview with Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, the billionaire shared its financial advice, as U.S. faces a potential 
 
 recession. Those stories after the short break. 
 
You are watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[17:21:16]
 
SOARES:  Let's take a look at the other key stories making international had lines today. 
 
The European Union and the U.K. have adopted a fresh round sanctions against Iranian officials and what the British foreign secretary describes 
 
 as a coordinated mood from international partners. The sanctions are in response to the regime's crackdown on protesters and targets both 
 
 individuals as well as entities.
 
The family of jailed British Egyptian activist Alaa Abd el-Fattah say that authorities sent them a letter saying he's alive. El-Fattah, renowned 
 
 activists from the 2011 Egyptian uprising has been on a hunger strike from more than 200 days, and stop drinking water earlier this month, sparking 
 
 global concerns over his well-being. 
 
Turkish authorities say a Syrian optional trained by Kurdish separatists is responsible for Sunday's deadly explosion in Istanbul. Police say the 
 
 suspect was trained by the PKK. However, the group is denying involvement. 
 
Jomana Karadsheh has more on what they've learned today. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Within hours of Sunday's attack here in Istanbul, authorities say they detained a suspect, a Syrian woman they 
 
 say with links to Kurdish separatist groups. Authorities say they comb through footage for more than 1,200 security cameras in the city. And they 
 
 were able to track down the suspect. As well as 21 addresses linked to her all raided. This woman detained as well as more than 14 people. 
 
They say the woman, the suspect crossed illegally into Turkey from northern Syria. They say she received training on orders from separatist groups. The 
 
 Kurdish separatists militant group, the PKK, that is considered a terrorist organization by Turkey, the U.S., and the E.U., that has waged a bloody 
 
 insurgency in this country for decades. As well as the YPG, Syrian Kurdish group that is the U.S. ally in the fight against ISIS in Syria. Both groups 
 
 denying links to this attack. 
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Istanbul. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES:  Well, "The New York Times" reporting that Amazon will lay off about 10,000 employees beginning this week. That would represent 3 percent 
 
 of its staff, one other U.S. tech companies are having to make similar cuts. 
 
Meanwhile, Amazon founder, Jeff Bezos, is still one of the richest people in the world. In an exclusive interview with CNN, Bezos says he plans to 
 
 give way the majority of his $124 billion fortune by the end of his lifetime. 
 
He spoke with CNN's Chloe Melas and gave his advice for these uncertain times. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  We are in some tough economic times, some people say perhaps were already in a recession. Do you think that we're in 
 
 one? And what is your advice for small business owners? 
 
JEFF BEZOS, FOUNDER, AMAZON:  I don't know whether we're technically in a recession in, economists argue over that they have certain technical 
 
 definitions. What I could tell you is, the economy doesn't look great right now. Things are slowing down, you're seeing layoffs in many, many sectors 
 
 of the economy. People are slowing down. 
 
The probability, say, if we're not in a recession right now, we're likely to be at one very soon. So, my advice to people whether they're small 
 
 business owners, or, you know, is take some risk off the table. If you're going to make a purchase, maybe slow down that purchased a little bit. Keep 
 
 some dry powder on hand and weigh a bit and see how. Try to reduce some risk in your business or your life. 
 
MELAS:  Well, you tweeted batten down the hatches. Is that what you mean by that?
 
BEZOS:  That's what I mean. If you're individual and thinking of buying a large screen TV, maybe slow that down, keep the cash, see what happens. 
 
 Same thing with the refrigerator, a new car, whatever. Just take some risk off the table. 
 
If you're a small business, maybe delay some capital purchases. Do you really need that new piece of equipment? Maybe it could wait a little bit. 
 
 Have some cash on hand. Just a little bit of risk reduction could make the difference for the small business, if we do get into even more serious 
 
 economic problem. So, get to play the probabilities a little bit. 
 
MELAS:  Any idea in terms of what you're hearing, or just with your expertise as to how long this recession could last? 
 
BEZOS:  I don't think even the most experienced economist in the world can answer that question. It's a very challenging thing to try and estimate. 
 
 So, I think you have to -- you just have to try and be reasonable about it, and take as much risk off the table as you can for yourself. You know, hope 
 
 for the best but prepare for the worst. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  Chloe Melas interviewing there, our Jeff Bezos, exclusive interview. 
 
Well, Elon Musk was a busy man with Tesla, SpaceX and the Boring Company. And it seems like taking over Twitter may have been really biting off more 
 
 than he can chew. While adjusting a business concert on the sidelines, of the G20 summit in Bali, that's not him in Bali, THE billionaires said his 
 
 recent acquisition for the social media power was, quote, too much work as he was dealing with the power outages. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELON MUSK, OWNER &amp; CEO, TWITTER:  I'm really working at the absolute worst amount I can work from morning until night, seven days a week. So it's not 
 
 something I recommend, frankly. Yeah, don't know what else to say, but it is -- I'm just looking at this video and it's so bizarre. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Well, you look like you're in a dark place.
 
MUSK:  I'm sitting in the dark surrounded by candles. It's so bizarre.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  It's a rather weird video, I have to admit that. While meanwhile, Musk will be spending the next week in a Delaware courtroom. He's defending 
 
 the compensation plan of Tesla's board of directors approved for him four years ago valued at more than $50 billion. 
 
And thank you very much for your company. This was THE GLOBAL BRIEF.
 
"WORLD SPORT" is up next. I shall see you tomorrow, bye-bye. 
 
END