Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: FAA Lays Out New Steps To Avoid Plane Collisions; Off-Duty Pilot Jumps In After Captain Has Medical Emergency; Dentist Charged With Murder After Wife Fatally Poisoned; CDC: Recalled Eye Drops Blamed For 3 Deaths, Dozens of Infections; Report: Blackhawks Won't Wear Pride Jerseys Due To Russian Law. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired March 23, 2023 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:30:00]
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: But also this five-point plan to air traffic controllers, laying out steps that will be taken in air traffic control towers and facilities across the country. More supervisors, more training for unusual circumstances.
 
What also is really interesting here is that the FAA wants to improve training and reduce the training backlog because the staffing shortage of air traffic controllers is something that keeps coming up again and again. 
 
In fact, the FAA just owned up to it a bit, saying that there is a shortage at the New York TRACON (ph) control terminal radar approach, a key control facility. That's a key facility in New York that controls the airspace around the three busy airports in the metro area. 
 
The shortage there really severe, only 54 percent staffing there right now, 90 percent staffing nationwide. So the FAA really needs to hire some more people, according to air traffic control unions. 
 
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, though, attributes these problems to a kind of rust that has been seen among pilots and airports, and he says the system is really pressed to the limit right now and it can't compromise on safety. 
 
Listen to what Buttigieg said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PETE BUTTIGIEG, TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY: We think that the uptick is partly related to the exceptionally fast surge in demand and the swift return to the skies faster than even the most optimistic scenarios that we heard a couple of years ago. 
 
We need to make sure, of course, that as that system comes back to that high level of demand, there is no negative safety impact to that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUNTEAN: The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating six of these runway incursions that have happened since the start of this year. 
 
In fact, we're learning of even more coming to light. One that happened in January - we just found out about it - between an ambulance that was crossing one of the runways at WTI Maryland and a Southwest Airlines flight that was taking off, both of those vehicles narrowly missing one another - Brianna?
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: We've seen so many of them, right? It's like this blinking sign. We know that there have been so many close calls. They have to address this so that we don't see anything worse.
 
Also, Pete, I know that you have news on this dramatic story today about a passenger who stepped in to help when the plane's captain actually had a medical emergency midflight. What happened here? 
 
MUNTEAN: It sounds like something out of a movie, Brianna. You know, on the Southwest flight, 6013 from Las Vegas to Columbus, Ohio, got only about 27 minutes into the flight Southwest says one of the pilots on board had an apparent medical emergency. 
 
That is when a pilot in the passenger cabin flying for a completely different airline was pressed into service and stepped into the flight deck. 
 
Southwest Airlines says that pilot who was off duty helped out with the radio communications to try and bring this plane back under the ground. Safely reverted back to Las Vegas airport. No real issues there. 
 
The big mystery now is who is this person? No airline really claiming who this off-duty pilot was. Pretty incredible work, though. 
 
KEILAR: I mean, do we even know how that happened? Did someone say, is there a pilot on board or did it just become apparent? They needed help? You know, normally someone yells, oh, is there a doctor on board? Did they say that? 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
MUNTEAN: Southwest is being a little bit coy. You know what's really interesting here is that pilots, you know myself included, were all kinds of thinking always in the back of our minds, when we get into a commercial airliner, what will we do if the question comes up? Is there a pilot on board?
 
And so it seems like this pilot flew for a different airline, and was just pressed into service. Helping out with the radios is a pretty good job. 
 
Although, remember that a Southwest 737 in general can be flown with one pilot. This is one of the reasons why there are two pilots on board. But you can still fly it with one. So really right place, right time here - Brianna? 
 
KEILAR: Yes. And looks easier to do if you have someone manning the radio. MUNTEAN: No doubt.
 
KEILAR: I suppose I know you could do that, Pete. I have no doubt you can do it. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: Pete Muntean, thank you. 
 <br>[13:33:38]
 
Still ahead, a danger that could be as close as your medicine cabinet. More deaths reported after the CDC discovers a rare bacteria in eyedrops. We'll have details on this ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:38:31]
 
KEILAR: The dentist accused of killing his wife by lacing her protein shakes with arsenic was hauled in front of a judge today and formally charged with her murder. 
 
James Craig is being held without bond. And court documents list a heap of evidence that includes suspicious Web searches like how to make poison and how many grams of arsenic will kill a human. 
 
CNN's Jean Casarez is following this.
 
I mean, it sounds clearly like a planned sinister plot here that he left a lot of evidence of in this alleged crime. What are you learning?
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Brianna, he has now been formally charged with first degree murder. And under Colorado law that is deliberation with the intent to kill or malice, extreme indifference to human life. 
 
Let's look at the timeline here because the probable cause affidavit for arrest had so much information. And that timeline begins on March 6th because that is when he received an order of arsenic. 
 
Now his wife, Angela, was not in town. She was visiting her sister. She gets back on the fifth. But then on the sixth, she starts to feel bad and she's admitted to the hospital. 
 
Now her husband, he orders oleandrin. Now the delivery. He doesn't get it. But he ordered that chemical on the day she went into the hospital. Then she's released from the hospital. 
 
She goes back again. The third time, March 9th to 14th. She goes back into the hospital, and he orders potassium cyanide. 
 <br>[13:40:01]
 
Now on that sixth is when it all began, there is a text that is included in this affidavit where she's not feeling well. Let's show that to everybody.
 
She says, "I feel drugged." He responds, "Given our history, I know that must be troubling. Just for the record, I didn't drug you. I am super worried, though. You really looked pale before I left, like in your lips even."
 
Now, let me tell you the backstory to that, her sister - she just visited her sister told law enforcement in an interview. My sister told me when she was visiting me that, five to six years ago, her husband dig drug her. 
 
And that he's explained the reason he drugged her was that he was going to go in the bathroom and commits suicide, and he didn't want her to be able to stop him. And that's why he did it.
 
Now, one more thing that is fascinating from this probable cause affidavit, the potassium cyanide that he ordered, he actually had to explain a reason of why he was ordering it.
 
And he said that he was a surgeon performing a cranial facial reconstruction and the chemical will help with the layering of alternative metals.
 
That arrived to his office. He had told office staff, "I'm getting a personal package. Don't you open it." But an office manager opened it, saw it was potassium cyanide, had no business being in that dental office. 
 
That is what essentially broke this case because they reported it as a mandatory reporter to law enforcement. And that's when everything unraveled. 
 
We do want to say that, according to all of these texts and all of this information from the affidavit, he said in numerous texts his wife had wanted to commit suicide in the past, and he believed that she was trying to do that again. 
 
So whether or not that is the defense, we don't know. He has not yet entered a plea - Brianna?
 
KEILAR: All right. We'll be looking for that. 
 
Jean, thank you for taking us through all of that. 
 
I want to bring in criminal defense attorney and former prosecutor, Bernarda Villalona. 
 
So, Bernarda, let's say that this guy comes to you and wants you to take on his case. What is the defense that you put forward? 
 
BERNADA VILLALONA, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY &amp; FORMER PROSECUTOR: So as you can see, this is going to be a very complex case because, as you can see from the 50-page affidavit, probable cause affidavit, there is a lot of evidence that is showing the guilt of Mr. Craig. 
 
So in terms of, if he were to come to me and asked for me to defend them, of course, after I get paid, we will have to evaluate all the evidence that exists. 
 
But it looks like the most probing type of defense would be to say that she committed suicide as opposed to that he is the one who actually poisoned her.
 
Because, based on what he has laid out in different text messages and talking to other people, it has to coincide with what he's already said to other people and has said to law enforcement.
 
In the sense that when he tried to divorce her that she started going on opiates, and that may have may try to overdose in the past. But again, this is all coming from his mouth. 
 
KEILAR: How would you get past the fact that he ordered apparently three deadly substances? 
 
VILLALONA: Well, we're going to have to do a lot of research having to deal with what dentists do and what type of items they need in order to perform their jobs. 
 
But the last time I think I was at the dentist, I don't think using cyanide was an option to get a cavity filled. So that's going to be very difficult. 
 
And as you can see, his own employees from that office, from the dental office have evidence and testimony to provide against that.
 
And it doesn't help those searches on the computer where he's googling, what is the best option? Where can arsenic be detected in an autopsy? What are the top five points in that can't be detected?
 
So those are very difficult hurdles that defense is going to have to try to overcome if they want to save this man from being in jail for the rest of his life. 
 
KEILAR: Yes, what I'm hearing you say is this is a tough case. Very tough case to defend from what we're hearing so far.
 
VILLALONA: Absolutely.
 
KEILAR: Bernarda, thank you so much for your insight. 
 
The CDC says that two more people to have died after using artificial tears, eye drops that were contaminated with a rare strain of deadly bacteria. Some eyeballs have even had to be surgically removed because of this.
 
And you have the CDC and the FDA now investigating. The company, Global Pharma Healthcare, has recalled its artificial tears lubricant eyedrops distributed by EzraCare and Dell. Sam Pharma. 
 
CNN health reporter, Jacqueline Howard, is joining us now. 
 
I mean, Jacqueline, what do people need to know about this situation? Because we're talking about a product that just seems so harmless. JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: That's right. It's an over-
 
 the-counter products. But what people should know right now, the CDC and FDA both say that clinicians and patients should stop using these EzraCare and Delsam Pharma artificial tears products. 
 <br>[13:45:05]
 
The reason why, this outbreak of a rare strain of bacteria called pseudomonas originals. It's not been seen in the U.S. before. 
 
And we do know what's drug resistant, and that's what's been associated with all of these cases of infections that have been click change, you know, kind of traced back to these drops. 
 
Now what we know about 68 people so far have been reported to have been infected with this rare strain of bacteria. 
 
We know, sadly, three deaths so far have been reported, eight people have reported losing vision. And we do know reports of four eyeballs that have had to have been surgically removed as part of this investigation. 
 
Now if someone does have these symptoms and they do use these products, talk to your doctor. Eye pain, blurry vision, any unusual discharge in the eye.
 
But so far, Brianna, the CDC and FDA are continuing to investigate this strain of bacteria, and it's possible association with these products, and they have been recalled. 
 
But again, the message here, stop using them if they are on your cabinet shelf. 
 
KEILAR: Yes, good time to check your medicine cabinet. Maybe tell your friends and family to check theirs as well. 
 
Jacqueline, thank you for that. 
 
Still to come, why one NHL team reportedly has iced plans to wear special jerseys for a Pride Night celebration. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:50:52]
 
KEILAR: The National Hockey League's Chicago Blackhawks are reportedly citing security concerns is the reason that they will not wear special warmup jerseys for Pride Night on Sunday. 
 
Chicago has one Russian-born player on the roster and others with ties to Russia. Russia has made it illegal for anyone to promote same-sex relationships. 
 
CNN sports anchor, Coy Wire, is joining us now in this story. 
 
Tell us about how they came to this decision, Coy. COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Hi, Brianna. "The Sun Times" is
 
 reporting, according to sources, that the decision was made by the front office, not the players. 
 
CNN has reached out to the Blackhawks and the NHL for comment. And the players will not be wearing the warmup jersey. 
 
The team said in a statement to "The Sun Times" that "the organization is proud to continue its annual Pride Night celebration." 
 
And that, quote, "Together our activities will focus on fostering conversation and more equitable spaces in our pursuit to make hockey more inclusive. We do not condone anti-LGBTQIA-plus rhetoric and we stand firmly with the community," unquote.
 
On the Blackhawks web. Site advertising for the Pride Night promotion for their game against Vancouver on Sunday, Brianna, says there will be a special pregame event in the arena with special performances, photo ops and more.
 
And the Pride jerseys have been a sticking point, Brianna, with other players and teams this season. Recently, one Flyers player chose not to wear the Pride Night jersey, though the rest of the team did on their Pride Night festivities.
 
The San Jose Sharks goaltender, citing Christian - his Christian beliefs, chose not to wear the jersey. There have been several teams across the league, Rangers, Islanders and Wild have decided to scrap their plans, Brianna, as well to where the Pride jerseys.
 
KEILAR: It gets tricky when they could be punished by their home country. Right, then, you see these decisions, these decisions that the front offices making.
 
Turning to something lighter here how is your bracket going here in March Madness? 
 
WIRE: I'm sorry. I think you cut out on me there, Brianna. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: Are you doing that badly? 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WIRE: Sports guys supposed to be at the top. I am not. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WIRE: But hey, action tips off today. I know. You're doing pretty well, though, aren't you? 
 
KEILAR: No.
 
WIRE: I'm sorry. 
 
KEILAR: I missed the deadline. 
 
WIRE: No, I didn't want to go there. But, hey, smarter you're much smarter than all the stress I'm having to deal with. Tipping off tonight, though. We're looking forward to it. The Sweet 16 on the men's side stories tonight. 
 
KEILAR: OK so, but, no, seriously, how are you doing?
 
WIRE: I think I'm like eighth or ninth. 
 
KEILAR: That's not bad. 
 
WIRE: It's not great, because we have some other, you know, colleagues who are just picking based on their favorite color or their favorite mascot, who they think will win and they are dominating me. Who, of course, I studied hours tirelessly to trying to be great. 
 
But, yes, one of our colleagues actually picked based on the attractiveness of players.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: Maybe performing you. We will see.
 
WIRE: They definitely are. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
KEILAR: Coy, thank you so much.
 
WIRE: Thank you.
 
KEILAR: I'm Brianna Keilar, and that does it for me. 
 
But first, Eva Longoria is proud of her Mexican roots and deeply connected to the country that she calls her second home. 
 
Now in CNN's new original series, "SEARCHING FOR MEXICO," the actress and activist takes us across the country to see how the Mexican people, culture, landscape and history have shaped its diverse cuisine. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EVA LONGORIA, ACTRESS &amp; ACTIVIST: I'm not surprised by Guntram (ph) are always packed with dishes like fresh tuna tostadas, mouthwatering shrimp, chili and white fish ceviche. 
 
I'm lucky to get a table here. 
 
Because I have a date with one sexy Ceylinco, my husband, Pepe. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, man, I can't forgive me for interrupting this romantic.
 
(LAUGHTER) LONGORIA: To get us in the mood, Gabby starts with Pepe's favorite red clam ceviche. 
 
I love these. Wow. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
LONGORIA: It's wonderful, so much fun because we were like just dating and we had to be smooshed into the - really tight into the bar. 
 <br>[13:55:00]
 
I mean, first of all, you were impressed with my Spanish. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE). She said, I'm Mexican. I said, you're a Mexican that doesn't speak Spanish? I speak Spanish. OK, cool.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)