Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Russia Launches Fresh Attacks On Odesa; Trump Special Counsel Calls Witnesses As Possible Indictment Loom; Dangerous Heat Sticks Around For Another Week; Nearly 19k People Evacuated From Greek Isle Due To Fires; UPS Workers Vow to Walk Off the Job By July 31; Thousands Protest Israel's Judicial Reform Plan; Harman Leads With Final Round Of British Open Underway. Aired 8-9a ET

Aired July 23, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:02]
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN HOST: Experts tell our affiliate KSL, it's part of a mass migration of the juvenile toads in Stockton, Utah. Wow. Witnesses and scientists are stunned by the numbers. 
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN HOST: I hope this did not lead to toad kill, a lot of it. 
 
BLACKWELL: Oh, my goodness. 
 
WALKER: So why did the toads cross the road? Biologists say it's completely natural, possibly caused by the incredible amount of rain they've had this year. 
 
BLACKWELL: You have embarrassed me this morning. 
 
WALKER: I thought I was funny. 
 
BLACKWELL: Toad kill? 
 
WALKER: I laughed at your jokes. You're supposed to laugh at mine. 
 
BLACKWELL: But it's funny. Toad kill.
 
WALKER: You're so mean.
 
BLACKWELL: All right. Are we reopening the show or are we just going to hit it. 
 
WALKER: I think we're just going to hit it. 
 
BLACKWELL: All right.
 
(MUSIC)
 
BLACKWELL: Let's keep it light and fresh, folks. Light and fresh.
 
Good morning. Welcome to CNN THIS MORNING. It is Sunday, July 23rd. I'm Victor Blackwell. 
 
WALKER: I'm going to be very picky about when and how much I laugh at your jokes. Just letting you know. 
 
BLACKWELL: That's good.
 
WALKER: I'm not smiling.
 
I'm Amara Walker. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday with us.
 
And here is what we're watching for you this morning. Russia launched a new round of missile attacks on Ukraine damaging several residential buildings and injuring dozens of people. What we know about the attacks and why Ukraine says it's almost impossible to defend against them. 
 
BLACKWELL: Special counsel Jack Smith's office has contacted Georgia Governor Brian Kemp as part of its investigation to efforts to overturn the 2020 election. Why Kemp could be a key figure in the investigation. 
 
WALKER: Heat records are falling across the country, nearly three dozen of them yesterday alone, and all of the hot air is expanding. We'll tell you where we're likely to see more extreme heat. 
 
BLACKWELL: Hundreds of thousands of UPS workers says they are ready to walk off the job in less than two weeks as contract negotiations come down to the wire. The main sticking points and how a strike could impact the global economy. 
 
WALKER: We begin with the war in Ukraine. Russia unleashing another round of attacks on the southern port city of Odesa. Authorities say at least one person was killed and 19 others were rounded including four children. Ukraine's southern operational command says the overnight strikes damages six residential buildings and a church and architectural monuments. 
 
Ukraine's ministry of culture says the strikes have destroyed many U.N. protected world heritage sites. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called the attacks Russian evil. 
 
BLACKWELL: The president of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko, has arrived in Russia for a meeting today with President Vladimir Putin. That's according to state media agency in Belarus. The country's defense ministry says that Belarusian forces will soon hold joint military exercises with Wagner fighters near the border with Poland. 
 
CNN senior national security correspondent Alex Marquardt joins us now from Kyiv. 
 
What's the latest on these attacks, Alex? 
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Victor and Amara. Well, significant damage in the city of Odesa which, of course, is Ukraine's most famous port city. More than 20 different architectural sites were damaged according to a local official including the Transfiguration Cathedral which sustained the most damage. One person was killed, a security guard at the house of scientists. This attack was very hard to defend against. Nineteen missiles, five
 
 different kinds and experts say and officials say that that is what makes it so difficult for the air defense systems to shoot those missiles down, the variety of missiles. Now, we have President Zelenskyy vowing retaliation and says that Russia will feel that retaliation. 
 
And, Victor and Amara, this comes as Ukraine is struggling to make progress on the battlefield during this counter offensive. We have recently spent time on the front line with the 42nd mechanized brigade which is leading the fight on the southern front. We saw some of the new equipment they just got from the west, including American Bradley fighting vehicles and we spoke to a number of soldiers and each one to a man emphasized how difficult this fight is. 
 
Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): In a secret basement bunker, part of Ukraine's 47th mechanized brigade, is desperately trying to find how to punch through Russian lines. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There are a lot of Russians. 
 
MARQUARDT: There are a lot of Russians.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In here and overall. They have more guns. They have more shells. And they have more people. 
 
MARQUARDT: CNN was given an exclusive look at this battalion command post at the very front of Ukraine's counteroffensive in the south, filled with maps and feeds from drones.
 
Stanislav closely watches dozens of drone feeds helping artillery teams try to take out Russian positions. 
 
You can see that from here. You can see how close they are. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah.
 
MARQUARDT: You can tell them what? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And we -- and we guide them. 
 
MARQUARDT: You can redirect them farther, closer, left, right? 
 <br>[16:05:02]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. 
 
MARQUARDT: How do you think the fight is going in your section? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's tough. It's tough. 
 
MARQUARDT: The no man's land between the two sides is heavily pockmarked with craters from thousands of artillery rounds, but it's these little white dots, some of the countless anti-tank and anti- personnel mines that the Russians have laid are part of what's making the front so limited. 
 
Demining teams called sappers bravely cross the densely mined battlefield, often under fire, to defuse or detonate the Russian mines. 
 
Tral is a sapper who just got back from a mission. 
 
We need to break through the mine barriers he said so that equipment and infantry can pass. The enemy uses constant artillery and mortar fire. It's hard, he says, very hard. 
 
Everyone here, soldiers and generals alike, admit that over a month into Ukraine's counteroffensive, progress is slower than they would like. They argue that the Russians had months to dig in and prepare. 
 
But Ukraine was preparing as well. Soldiers like this team getting weeks of Western training and all kinds of new equipment. Like this American armored Bradley fighting vehicle, rarely shown to the press. 
 
The Bradley team leader named Kach is just 19. He shows us inside which is also used to carry troops across the battlefield. I feel very protected, he says. We know we're safe because it can withstand a lot and has a very thick layer of armor and has been tested in battles. 
 
Why do you wear the American flag? 
 
Kach is just four months out from American training in Germany. His U.S. flag patch, a parting gift for good luck from his U.S. trainer.
 
The first day of fighting was the most difficult, he tells us. We didn't know what to expect, what could happen, how events would unfold. 
 
Early setbacks on this front had meant that Ukraine has had to change tactics, moving more on foot, after many of the newly required vehicles were damaged or destroyed. 
 
The team camps out in a narrow tree line, trying to hide from Russian drones. When their next order to assault will come, they don't know. But soon, they will be back in the fight. 
 
This is the life here, the team's gunner says. You live by the fact that you're preparing for the next mission. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARQUARDT (on camera): And, Victor and Amara, that team among many others will continue to have many more missions before this counter offensive is over. Ukraine officials do acknowledge they're behind schedule. They're not where they want to be right now but they do remain optimistic about the progress that they hope to make in the near future. President Zelenskyy has said this was delayed, this was supposed to be a spring offensive, but they didn't have enough equipment, enough ammunition and enough weaponry to go ahead with it so the offensive was delayed.
 
And in that time, Zelenskyy says Russia was able to prepare, putting down defenses, laying those mine fields. But, Zelenskyy argued better not to Russia and try to save as many lives of Ukraine soldiers as possible -- guys. 
 
WALKER: Excellent reporting as always. Alex Marquardt, great to see you. Thank you very much. 
 
The special counsel investigating Donald Trump's alleged attempts to interfere in the 2020 election has contacted another top state official, Georgia Governor Brian Kemp. The former president is accused of trying to push Kemp to overturn Joe Biden's narrow win in Georgia. 
 
BLACKWELL: Trump and his allies are under also investigation in Fulton County for illegally interfering in the election allegedly. 
 
CNN's Marshall Cohen has more for us -- Marshall. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARSHALL COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Victor and Amara. Special counsel Jack Smith has contacted Georgia Governor Brian Kemp as part of his long-running investigation into the 2020 election aftermath. Our colleague Kaitlan Collins confirmed that Smith's team was in touch with Kemp this past week. Now, Kemp's office is really not saying much and the timing of a possible FBI interview or grand jury appearance for the governor is unclear. 
 
But Kemp, make no mistake, he's a key figure in this investigation. That is because there 2020, Donald Trump both privately and publicly pressured Kemp to overturn the election in Georgia. Trump wanted Kemp to interfere with the vote counting, block certification of the results, and convene a special session of the legislature so that he could appoint fake Trump electors. 
 
Now going beyond Kemp, the special counsel is also still in the process of scheduling interviews with additional witnesses. This list of possible additional interviews includes a former Trump lawyer, and a long-time ally of Rudy Giuliani. 
 
All of this comes as possible indictments in the case are looming. 
 <br>[08:10:04]
 
Jack Smith sent a target letter to Trump last weekend signaling that Trump might be charged with crimes for trying to overturn the election. The grand jury that sits here in Washington, D.C. is expected to meet in the coming days. 
 
Then, guys, there is also the Mar-a-Lago case where Trump is already facing 37 felony charges for allegedly mishandling classified documents and obstructing that investigation. Trump has denied any wrongdoing and he pleaded not guilty. 
 
Now on Friday, a federal judge in Florida set a new trial day for May of 2024. That is pretty late in the GOP primary schedule. By then Trump might already be the presumptive nominee. Special counsel Jack Smith wanted that trial to take place this December with a verdict coming before the Iowa caucuses, but that's not going to happen. 
 
That is a trial set for May and further delays are also possible and Trump's team is optimistic that with one or two additional delays that he might be able to get the case postponed all the way past the 2024 general election -- Victor and Amara. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLACKWELL: Marshall Cohen, thank you so much. 
 
Joining us now is Michael Moore, former U.S. attorney and a partner now at Moore Hall. 
 
Michael, good to see you again. 
 
MICHAEL MOORE, FORMER U.S. ATTORNEY: Good to see you. 
 
BLACKWELL: Let's start with Governor Kemp. 
 
So the target letter went to Trump he said on Sunday. And then according to our reporting, Governor Kemp was contacted subsequently. What does that tell us about the cruciality of his testimony, that he's not even been interviewed yet before the letter went to Trump? 
 
MOORE: Yeah, I'm glad to be with you both of you. It is no real surprise, I think, that the investigation is going on at this pace and that the target letter came out when it did. The target letter was to give Jack Smith a chance to know if Trump was going to assert a claim that he needed to appear before the grand jury so he that could make that provision through the presentation to the folks to decide if there is an indictment. 
 
He already has a lot of information about Kemp. It is not been a secret on what happened or on the pressure. That is a public thing that happened and some statements are in the public record. The importance is that Kemp, as governor, would sign what is called a certificate of ascertainment certifying the election and getting the electors listed. 
 
So I'm sure that special counsel wants to know did he feel pressure from anybody, was there an effort to do this? Who did he hear might be moving a secondary slate of electors. That is the belt and suspenders around the case and whether or not the effort to overturn the election was just in Georgia, we know it is in other states. So he's weaving that net and tying up that loose ends as he gets ready to build his case. 
 
WALKER: So, just to build on what you're saying, regarding the information that they may have been trying to get from Georgia Governor Brian Kemp. How would some of the information that they're trying to get pertain to the three statutes that were mentioned in this target letter that Trump could be charged with. MOORE: You know, there is a violation of constitutional rights in the
 
 -- as one of the statutes that they talk about. And that is a provision that said that you have a right to vote. It is a guarantee protection by law and by the Constitution and the special counsel has been interested in that. He's been interested in false statements and destruction and as well as to failing to certify the election and pressure on various states. 
 
So, the statutes are there as a framework. Doesn't mean that he's wedding to every particular thing or that he has to give a case, but to give a punitive defendant notice of the things that he's facing so that that defendant could make a decision about appearing before the grand jury and to know that he's in some legal jeopardy or legal peril as the case goes on. 
 
BLACKWELL: One of them reportedly is conspiracy. We have no evidence, no indication or reporting that anyone else has received a target letter and you just explained why Jack Smith would have sent it now. Is it customary? I guess it's not unprecedented, but to charge just one person with conspiracy considering how neatly this would fit into Donald Trump's narrative that they're coming after me, that this is a political persecution in his words. 
 
MOORE: You know, you could have unnamed co-conspirators into an indictment and a conspiracy is just, if you think about it, it is an agreement between two or more people to do something wrong and that there is some act in furtherance of that intent. So he could have other people who were cooperating. We don't know that. You could have folks would said this is our agreement and I don't want to be listed in the indictment and it will be shown up as subject A. 
 
You know, remember, we saw that a little bit in the Cohen case. There was in unindicted and unnamed individuals as well. 
 <br>[08:15:01]
 
So, it wouldn't surprise me if there are people who are cooperating and who will learn about their involvement and the things they have to say about Trump and the conspiracy in a future indictment. 
 
WALKER: So what the big picture here when we talk about this investigation to overturn the 2020 election. You had the target letter, you had Brian Kemp being contacted. We also learned that prosecutors are trying to schedule interviews with two other witnesses. What is your take on how soon, if an indictment comes down, when it could happen and if there might be other people who might be charged? 
 
MOORE: I think there are two takeaways. One if favor of Jack Smith and one in favor of Trump. On the Jack Smith side, it tells me that it's going to be a big case, if they're reaching across state lines to overthrow the election or to not certifying the results to try to change the will of the people. That tells me that is a big case. 
 
On the Trump side, is said there is no possibility that this case gets tried before the election. Any time you have any case of a magnitude, you have something that's particularly complex, then you're going to find motions, you're going to find the need for a defendant to prepare for trial. Think about how long this investigation has been going on. 
 
So you're now having, if you the indictment comes down, you now have Trump or anybody else named in the indictment, saying, look, I also need time to prepare. So, I see a big case, I see a big indictment, but I also see something that's likely to happen after the election. 
 
BLACKWELL: Okay. So that is the January 6 case. Do you think that the classified documents case goes to trial before the election? 
 
MOORE: It's going to be hard to imagine that it is not postponed until after the election. The date that was set by judge in Florida now is really, that is a benchmark and sort of a target date. It doesn't take into account the sitting significance of the this case and the idea that we'll have appeals and interlocutory appeals going on before that and we'll have to deal with this issue of how to qualify a jury when it comes to classified documents, which documents are we going to talk about. So trial dates are really just set to be moved unfortunately. There is an effort by the courts to keep things on track. 
 
But oftentimes they get moved because you need to have something in the record to shoot at. At the same time, it is a flexible schedule because there will be unknown things and certainly there is nothing about this case that is standard. And they'll be a myriad of issues that will come up that will need to be addressed. 
 
WALKER: Just quickly, do you think we'll see Trump testify in think of these trials? I'm sure, because I think there are four trial dates at least set between the civil and criminal trials he's facing, several I'm sure he won't be showing up, right? 
 
But when it comes to the documents case and if there is an indictment with the 2020 election efforts, could we potentially see him taking the stand? 
 
MOORE: Hard to imagine him doing that unless he feels like that he's made some real leeway into the case. But there is nothing much for him to gain at this point. It's not like he can refute and didn't have documents. We had the documents. So, it's really the legal question of whether he had the right to have those documents. 
 
BLACKWELL: All right. Michael Moore, thank you. 
 
MOORE: Glad to be with you. 
 
WALKER: Thank you.
 
BLACKWELL: Forty-four million people waking up to heat alerts again today with some cities seeing nonstop triple-digits temperatures for days and weeks. Chad Myers is here to explain why we seem to be stuck in this pattern of extreme heat.
 
WALKER: Plus, 19,000 people are forced to evacuate after fires ripped through a Greek resort town. More on the effort to get people to safety. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:22:39]
 
WALKER: The brutal heat wave that's been camped out over the southwest is not letting up. Right now in Phoenix, it is 90 degrees and today the mercury in thermometer is once again expected to top 110. Forty- four million people are under some sort of heat alert right now but this is all part of a much bigger greater heat story. More people have died since June 1st in America's national parks than an average entire year. 
 
So far, five people have died. They are all at parks in the ground zero for America's extreme heat this summer, the Southwest. 
 
BLACKWELL: The heat is also a problem in Europe. In Rome, temperatures hit a record 107 degrees this week. Now, workers who spent their time outdoors walked off the job after being forced to work during the hottest parts of the day. Greece is going through what is expected to be the longest ever recorded heat wave. The heat sparked numerous wildfires which have been burning for six days. 
 
So is this extreme heat the new normal?
 
Chad Myers, CNN meteorologist, is with us now. 
 
So, is it? 
 
CHAD MYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST: So is my friend. 
 
BLACKWELL: Yes, yes.
 
MYERS: Mr. Globe. 
 
WALKER: Yay.
 
MYERS: I have a dry erase marker. I'm not going to defile my beloved globe. But I'll tell you what is going on. Because actually I had dinner with Dr. Gupta, and he said would you say that on TV because I've never heard that before. And if I could impress Dr. Gupta --  
 
BLACKWELL: Yes.
 
BLACKWELL: Everybody thinks of their world as the four blocks around their house, right? The highway you go to, how you get to work, that's my world. But the world is a big place. 
 
So let me show you what's going on across parts of the desert southwest. Here is where the heat indexes are going to be again above 115 degrees. And then we've talked about this for a very long time, the heat dome, the heat dome is this area of high pressure that has sat over the southwestern part of the United States for three solid weeks. 
 
This one you may not have seen, because this kind of takes into account the globe itself, where these heat waves are and why. So there are four main little areas here. Heat dome, heat wave, heat wave and I'm going to take you on a globe and show you how this works. We're going to start off with the desert southwest because that is where we know. 
 
We have a huge ridge of high pressure here and I will turn it around so you could see it. 
 <br>[08:25:01]
 
Back off to the east, we've had a low pressure. You could see it a little bit there. And that is where we have flooded Vermont, we have flooded New Hampshire and also Nova Scotia this week, right? 
 
That's the low. That's where the cold is. That's where the wet air is. Over the North Atlantic, we're up in the atmosphere again, ridge of high pressure, back now where it's cold, I'm watching the British Open, which I can never call it the open, because that's always going to be the British Open to an old guy. 
 
And then a big ridge of high pressure over Italy. That's where it's hot. We just had Barbie Nadeau out there talking about how hot it is there. Back around through and across Asia and guess where? Guess where we go from here. This thing goes all the way around the globe and then back into the Pacific Ocean there. 
 
WALKER: Wow!  
 
MYERS: A little bit of a bad drawing but that's okay. 
 
And this is how the jet stream works. It goes, people think about the jet stream, oh, it's going to take me an hour longer to get to L.A. from New York because I'm going against the jet stream. 
 
WALKER: Right.
 
MYERS: It goes all the way around the world. And when the jet stream goes up, you get high pressure and you get hot temperatures. When the jet stream goes down you get low temperatures and you get rain and these areas have been stuck for so very long. It is rained for days in Vermont, New Hampshire, Boston and Nova Scotia. It's been hot across the desert southwest for weeks.
 
When these things move, like they're supposed to, you get warm and then you get a cool spot, and then you get warm and you get a cool spot. But these patterns have been stuck across the globe for weeks and weeks on end. 
 
WALKER: Can we see when it could ever get unstuck? I mean, is that something that's just hard to predict? 
 
MYERS: Well, we're hoping that it gets unstuck on Monday and Tuesday of this week. 
 
WALKER: OK.
 
MYERS: But that's for the people of the desert southwest. Where is that heat going to go? 
 
WALKER: Yeah.
 
MYERS: Minnesota. Minneapolis is 100 degrees this week, right? And New York city is getting to get that 96. 
 
So, as soon as you start spreading it out, you're just going to start to cool down some spots, but heat up others and that's how a normal cycle is supposed to go. You're not supposed to be above 110 degrees for 23 solid days in a row. 
 
BLACKWELL: One continuous stream all the way around the globe, that makes sense. It makes sense. Now, I understand why Dr. Gupta said if you could do that on television, we all get it now.
 
WALKER: You know, if you were my science teacher, you know, I think I would have paid attention because this is very visual and it helps me understand. 
 
MYERS: I have to see things to understand them. 
 
WALKER: Same here. 
 
MYERS: That is why I brought this. 
 
WALKER: Yeah, I was in Coast Island --  
 
MYERS: And this does come off. 
 
WALKER: It does. Good. Yeah, before people start tweeting. 
 
But I was in Coast Island just last week, and I was there because it's a very breezy island in Greece, which is not far from Rhodes, just north of it were the fires are burning, and everyone was commenting that it never gets that -- it wasn't nearly 100 degrees and this was a week ago, and they said in the evenings it would cool down such that you would wear a jacket. And those days --  
 
BLACKWELL: They never did.
 
WALKER: No, never did. It was excruciatingly hot. So -- 
 
MYERS: Once it gets hot, it's just keeps getting hotter, the next day is hotter, the next day is hotter until we get a change. 
 
BLACKWELL: Thank you, Chad. 
 
MYERS: You bet.
 
WALKER: Appreciate it, Chad. Good to see you. 
 
Well, ongoing exposure to extreme heat can some serious health issues and in emergency cases, doctors must act quickly to help patients with heat-related illnesses. 
 
BLACKWELL: CNN's Jacqueline Howard shows us the signs you should be looking for. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: Extreme heat could make you seriously ill if your body is unable to cool itself and this happens in high humidity when sweat can't evaporate off your body as quickly, and your age, obesity, alcohol use and other factors all can play a role in raising risks of heat-related illness. 
 
What that happens, doctors typically try to cool down a patient's body temperature quickly with ice baths or IV fluids. And heat-related illnesses, they include heat stroke, heat exhaustion, heat cramps, sun burn and heat rash and for heat stroke, especially symptoms to look out for including have a body temperature at or higher than 103 degrees Fahrenheit, having a fast, strong pulse or feeling dizzy, headache or nauseous. 
 
And sometimes, sadly, heat-related illnesses can turn deadly. And we're seeing more of this. The number of global heat related deaths increased by 74 percent between 1980 and 2016. But one way to stay safe during extreme heat, drink more water. 
 
One recommendation is if you're doing moderate activity outdoors, drink one cup of water every 15 to 20 minutes. And remember to wear loose, light-weight clothing and also remember to check on older adults and young children. They tend to me be more vulnerable to the heat. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[08:29:41] 
 
BLACKWELL: Jacqueline, thank you.
 
So you just talked about the island of Rhodes. The Greek government is calling this the largest evacuation effort the country has ever seen. Nearly 19,000 people have been forced to flee that island yesterday after a wildfire rekindled. 
 
WALKER: That's a monumental effort -- 19,000 tourists and people. Videos posted on social media showing them walking in droves to safety. 
 
CNN's Barbie Latza Nadeau joining us now with more. Barbie, as I was saying it is a massive effort. Where are these people going? 
 
BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Yes, you know they're trying to get as many of them as they can to the mainland but it is hot there. That is where we're seeing the record heat there. 
 
You know, 19,000 people, that is a ton of people. But it is not just those tourists. It is all of these establishments that cater to them, all of those vacations now canceled. 
 
You know, we've heard two British flights no longer flying to the island with tourists, just going there to get them off the island. This is one of the most beautiful places in the world, you know. This
 
 turquoise water, blue sky island now filled with burning smoke that's been burning from these fires since last Tuesday, still not under control. 
 
BLACKWELL: All right. Barbie Latza Nadeau, these pictures are just remarkable of what we're seeing there. Thank you so much for the reporting. 
 
Still to come, hundreds of thousands of UPS workers could walk off the job in just over a week as the union and UPS struggle to agree on a new contract. We'll examine some of the main sticking points and the impact. 
 <br>[08:31:10]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: 340,000 UPS workers are poised for the biggest strike on American soil in 60 years and they're practice picketing across the country just ahead of another contract negotiation. 
 
BLACKWELL: The union says they want fair pay and better working conditions. And they have given a deadline to walk off the job if there is no agreement. 
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales has more. 
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Amara, Victor -- Teamsters -- the Teamsters, that is the union for UPS, they insist that they are ready to go on strike if it comes to that. And their biggest leverage point is 340,000. That is the number of members that they have that work at UPS. 
 
They insist that they are ready to get this started day one if UPS cannot concede to their terms. And if it does come to a strike, it would be the costliest work stoppage ever in work history, that is according to the Anderson Economic Group. That's a research firm who estimates that a 10-day UPS strike would cost the U.S. economy over $7 billion. 
 
One of the biggest sticking points in thi8s contract negotiation, which by the way, both sides have agreed to about 95 percent of the contract, one of the biggest sticking points is part-time workers. 
 
They make $16.20 as a starting wage and we've heard from leadership here that that is not a livable wage. That number used to go to above $20 to start. The average part-timer making $20. Meanwhile, full time workers making roughly $95,000 a year. 
 
Here is what else the general president of the union had to say about negotiations. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEAN O'BRIEN, PRESIDENT, TEAMSTERS UNION: We did not get a deal. UPS has chose to strike themselves and we will not -- we will withhold our labor July 31st at 12:01 a.m. 
 
But if we get a tentative agreement, subject to ratification and we're going to recommend it, then we will not withhold our labor. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: We did also hear from UPS here in the past week that put out a statement also saying that part-timers, they make the same benefits as full time workers including health care, pension and help with school tuition but the company did acknowledge that they make less money. 
 
Also calling the deal -- that the factors that they've agreed to so far, a historic, quote, "historic economic package" and urging quick action to finalize a deal. 
 
Here is their statement right here. "We're pleased to be back at the negotiating table next week to resolve the few remaining open issues. We are prepared to increase our industry-leading pay and benefits but need to work quickly to finalize a fair deal that provide certainty for customers, our employees and businesses across the country."
 
Amara, Victor -- I also want to mention what has been agreed upon, what the company, UPS agreed to, which includes adding AC systems into new vehicles and retrofitting old ones with fans. Also doing away with the two-tiered wage system where folks who worked on the weekend made less money. 
 
But of course, the count down here is looming for this potential strike. All eyes are going to be on D.C. Tuesday when both sides return to the bargaining table, guys. 
 
WALKER: All right. Isabel Rosales, watching it closely. Thank you. 
 
BLACKWELL: Making less money working on a weekends? 
 
WALKER: You would think -- yes, that goes against -- intuition (ph). 
 
BLACKWELL: They have that.
 
WALKER: Still to come, massive protests in Israel as thousands march from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Their message to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over his plans to weaken the powers of Israel's courts. 
 <br>[08:38:40]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLACKWELL: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is in the hospital after being fitted with a pacemaker ahead of a key vote on a controversial judicial reform plan. Netanyahu's doctors say the surgery was triggered by a warning from a heart monitor that showed he had a transient heart block. The Israeli leader is expected to be discharged later today in time for the vote on the judiciary reform bills. Netanyahu's health care -- health scare rather, comes as thousands of
 
 protesters converge on Jerusalem as the Israeli parliament debates the judicial overhaul plan. 
 
Now take a look at this video. This is from yesterday. You can see demonstrators marching with flags and you heard the drums there. Some of them bringing their families with them. 
 
WALKER: Part of the controversial legislation aims to remove the supreme court's power to cancel government decisions deemed unreasonable.
 
CNN's Hadas Gold is joining us live from Jerusalem. Obviously a lot of people out there not happy about this vote set to take place. What is the latest? 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yes, a lot going on here. Normally, you know, the prime minister implanted with a pacemaker would be major news but that's almost secondary to what is happening at the Israeli parliament today. 
 
The debate has started on that legislation about whether the supreme court will be able to declare government actions unreasonable. 
 
Keep in mind, that the Israeli -- the way Israeli politics work out, essentially the supreme court here is the only check on the power of the executive and of the legislative because the party, the biggest party that has the coalition usually is also the party in power.
 
And that is why you see what's behind me here. We are in one of the main parts of Jerusalem, just under the Israeli parliament and the supreme court and it is here that protesters have set up essentially a tent city. 
 <br>[08:44:51]
 
GOLD: There is everything here from reports (ph) that you see all the tents, but also food stations, water stations and the protesters here say that they're setting it up this way because they plan to stay here for as long as necessary until this legislation, until this judicial overhaul is off the table. 
 
We've seen protests, of course, here for months but they've really ramped in the last week or so. We saw that the massive march from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. We've seen tens of thousands of Israelis taking to the streets in massive numbers across the country all protesting against this legislation. The debate is going on as we speak in the Israeli parliament. 
 
The votes are expected to take place possibly tomorrow. The second and third final votes. And if this legislation passes, it will be the first part of this judicial overhaul. 
 
This is a massive package of various types of bills that they want to pass that would completely change how the Israeli judiciary would function. But if this specific legislation about the supreme court's ability to declare government actions unreasonable -- if it passes, it will be the first portion of this judicial overhaul to do so. 
 
Now also happening is that thousands of Israeli military reservists have declared that they will not -- they will not come to service if called. If this legislation passes. that is causing a lot of concerns about Israeli military readiness.
 
And of course, all of this is happening while the prime minister is in hospital getting a pacemaker fitted. Now his office says that he will be out in time for these votes. But a lot going on here. Very heightened political situation here as we speak, guys. 
 
BLACKWELL: Tumultuous time there. Hadas Gold for us, thanks so much. 
 
Still ahead, if you thought Lionel Messi's debut goal was impressive, and it was, you have to see what a rookie with the Milwaukee Brewers did in his first ever game in the big leagues. That is next. 
 <br>[08:46:36]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: The final round of the British Open is underway and a couple of Americans looking for their first major, they're leading the way. 
 
BLACKWELL: Carolyn Manno is with us now. Carolyn, Brian Harbin, he had a shaky start but he overcame that. 
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Yes. He's nervous. I mean he enters the day with a commanding lead but that doesn't mean you're not freaking out, right. It is a lot of pressure.
 
But over the last four decades, 9 of the 11 golfers who have led by as many shots at least five strokes heading into the final round has gone on to win it. 
 
So we think he's in good shape barring something catastrophic. But it's far from over, thanks to the Spain's Jon Rahm, the two-time major champ had a round for the ages at Royal Liverpool yesterday, shooting an 8 under par 63 including seven birdies on the final nine holes setting the record for the course during the open.
 
And still Rahm finds himself six strokes back of Brian Harman. The 36- year-old from Savannah, Georgia displaying incredible resilience after those bogeys that you mentioned. Two of the first four holes but he answered with four birdies the rest of the way on the way to a 2-under 69 and his putting was lights out. 
 
He's 12 under 5 shots clear of fellow American Cameron Young who carted a 5 under 66 on Saturday as well. 
 
What a major league debut for Brewers Rookie Sal Frelick. 6th inning, down one against the Braves. He's leaping and robbing extra bases from Marcel Ozuna. And look at his family, all smiles after this. 
 
This is the start of something really special. After his family is checking that out, two batters later, he does it again. In fact, it is even better, crashing into the wall at full speed here, taking one away from Orlando Arcia, flashing the leather a little bit, delivering at the plate as well (INAUDIBLE), Frelick hitting  a liner to right just deep enough for Willie Adames to beat the throw from Ronald Acuna driving in the go-ahead running (INAUDIBLE) after he had the game- tying hit in the 6th. 
 
So the Frelick family going absolutely wild as Sal goes a perfect 3 for 3 with two rbi and those two red gems as the Brew crew wins 4-3. Just remarkable.
 
And in the Women's World Cup, France and Jamaica finishing their opening match this morning in a draw. But if you haven't seen this commercial, I want you to check this out. The French team went viral this week, thanks to an incredible new advertisement by the French telecom company Orange. 
 
So this ad depicts French men's stars like Antoine Griezmann and Kylian Mbappe scoring all of these spectacular goals only to actually reveal who is truly responsible for these incredible highlights. 
 
So this is the first time we've seen a commercial like this where this deep fake A.I. technology has been used but it is actually the women on full display in this commercial. 
 
What that felt was so interesting and really thought provoking because Victor and Amara, you know, you're mind is kind of trained to think that this would be highlights from a male roster and oh, by the way, this really creative advertisement says uh-uh, these highlights are from the women team. Really cool. 
 
WALKER: Amazing. 
 
BLACKWELL: Yes.
 
WALKER: And eye-opening. 
 
BLACKWELL: Smart concept. Carolyn Manno, thank you. 
 
Up next, it is Twitter without the tweet. What do we call them now? Why owner Elon Musk said you won't see that bird synonymous with the social media platform for much longer. 
 <br>[08:54:21]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLACKWELL: The new CNN series "SEE IT LOUD: THE HISTORY OF BLACK TELEVISION" celebrates the creators who brought black TV to live. Here is a look at tonight's new episode. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AVA DUVERNAY, DIRECTOR: The question is, can we interrogate what happened in the past to safeguard ourselves from what is happening in the future. That's why I'm such a student of history. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Get stories like when they see us. But sometimes you have to tell it from the way it was felt, no the just exactly how it happened but how it was felt. How it was metabolized. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They feed her with her fists. She was raped by four of these youths. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The savage attack unleashed a cry of outrage in New York. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was in New York City in 1989. And I have to say that being caught up in the moment of everything that happens and the way it was designed for me to process and take it in, I mean it did its job. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: Check it out tonight at 9:00 Eastern and Pacific only on CNN. 
 <br>[08:59:53]
 
WALKER: All right. Twitter CEO Elon Musk says its logo is set too change and that the platform would be turning its logo into an X. And that the bird logo would soon be gone. 
 
He also posted the song "Paint It Black" before launching a user poll to change the default platform color to black. 
 
BLACKWELL: He said like this but x above an illustration of the iconic bird silhouette turned black. 
 
He also said if it is good enough that an x logo is posted tonight, we'll make it go live worldwide tomorrow. 
 
Thanks for watching. 
 
WALKER: "STATE OF THE UNION" is next.