Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: A Massive Quake Hits Turkey & Syria; Will Artificial Intelligence Take All The Jobs? Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired February 07, 2023 - 04:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people? Terrific Tuesday to you.
 
I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN, coming to you from Phoenix, Arizona, this week - - home to cacti, beautiful skies, Super Bowl LVII this Sunday and much, much more.
 
Now behind me is Piestewa Peak, one of the highest points of the Phoenix Mountains, named in honor of Lori Ann Piestewa, a United States Army 
 
 soldier who became the first known Native American woman to die in combat while serving our nation.
 
We`re going to start with the latest news out of Turkey, a country that sits partly in Asia and partly in Europe. A powerful 7.8 magnitude 
 
 earthquake occurred Monday in Turkey and parts of Syria, which collapsed thousands of buildings, killing more than 3,000 people. It created a new 
 
 humanitarian disaster in a region already strained by war, a refugee crisis and deep economic troubles. Turkey hosts 3.6 million Syrian refugees, the 
 
 most in the world.
 
And governments from around the world have been quick to respond to Turkey`s request for international assistance. Videos shared from Turkey 
 
 and across the border in Syria showed the extent of the damage. We`ll keep you updated as the situation continues to unfold.
 
Here`s CNN meteorologist Karen Maginnis helping us understand why earthquakes occur so frequently in Turkey and why this one was so 
 
 consequential.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KAREN MAGINNIS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Now this is real time. These are some of the aftershocks. And this is an interesting trajectory, just kind of 
 
 this geometry of where that energy was lying as it just kind of raced along that fault line.
 
And this is one of the most active seismic areas in the entire world. That`s because we`ve got a lot of tectonic plates moving around across this 
 
 region, we`ve got a lot of rift zones, and this is illustrative of just how devastating these earthquakes can be.
 
Now most of these earthquakes are not major earthquakes. But this one 7.8. It rivals one that occurred in northeastern Turkey in 1939. There were 
 
 16,000, 17,000 fatalities associated with that. It was at the same magnitude.
 
This earthquake was shallow that means the effects are going to be felt much more severely than if it were much further down into the core of the 
 
 earth.
 
All right. Here are these tectonic plates I was talking about essentially these are constantly shifting. There are always earthquakes somewhere in 
 
 this region being reported, but this one happened to be a major earthquake and devastating.
 
This is devastating, one that will be in the record books. We`ll remember February 2023 for this massive violent earthquake that took place in south 
 
 central Turkey that has interrupted so many people`s lives, but not just in Turkey, in Israel, in Jordan, in Syria where so many displaced people are 
 
 currently located.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  January`s U.S. jobs report surprised a lot of economists. The results showed far more jobs added than expected and the unemployment rate 
 
 fell to 3.4 percent, the lowest since May of 1969. With America adding more than half a million jobs last month, we`re getting more surprising clues 
 
 about the overall state of the U.S. economy, and it comes as the country grapples with the impact and usefulness of new artificial intelligence 
 
 platforms.
 
Some worry that one day sooner than later a plethora of jobs could be taken away, from real humans and given to robots and computers that could 
 
 presumably do the work faster, cheaper, et cetera.
 
CNN business and politics correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich sat down with an expert to discuss whether this threat is real or imagined.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS &amp; POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  Which jobs is AI coming after first?
 
SHELLY PALMER, PROFESSOR OF ADVANCED MEDIA:  If you`re a middle manager, you`re doomed. Any kind of commodity sales person, report writers and 
 
 journalists, accountants and bookkeepers and oddly enough doctors who are looking -- who specialize in things like drug interactions.
 
YURKEVICH:  Do you mean out of a job --  
 
PALMER:  No.
 
YURKEVICH:  -- or you mean that part of your job?
 
PALMER:  That one.
 
YURKEVICH:  OK.
 
That`s the relief a lot of Americans are looking for right now.
 
Will it take my job?
 
PALMER:  Yes and no. It`s not going to replace you. Someone who knows how to use it well is going to take your job and that`s a guarantee.
 
YURKEVICH:  By 2025, the World Economic Forum predicts that 85 million jobs will be displaced by automation and technology, but it will also create 97 
 
 million new roles. We`ve seen it before in the auto industry.
 
PALMER:  While the auto worker may be displaced because they are not as good at welding or as painting as the robot, there`s probably 35 people 
 
 that have to be involved in the creation and maintenance of that device that welds better than a person.
 
YURKEVICH:  And that`s what happened at Carbon Robotics, former auto workers now building an AI laser weeder in Detroit for farms. The laser 
 
 weeder still operated by a human but run by AI can do the work of between 40 to 50 people says the CEO, filling roles that are hard to find humans 
 
 for.
 
This music is composed solely by artificial intelligence called AIVA. It even has an album you can stream. AI music is more affordable. There`s no 
 
 producer, composer or artist to pay.
 
KARL FOWLKES, ENTERTAINMENT AND BUSINESS ATTORNEY:  It`s taken away opportunity from songwriters, producers and artists, right? So the people 
 
 are trying to feed them for their families.
 
YURKEVICH:  Something similar is happening in the art world. Leading artist Kara Ortiz and two others to file a class-action lawsuit against three AI 
 
 art companies for copyright infringement. Ortiz claims they`re using her name and art to train the AI.
 
KARA ORTIZ, ARTIST:  It`s feast and famine for most of us we go job by job, and what happens when there`s a little bit less work to go around?
 
ROBOT:  My father tried to teach me human emotions.
 
PALMER:  There`s a wonderful scene in the movie "I, Robot". Detective Spooner hates robots, he says.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Can a robot write a symphony? Can a robot turn a canvas into a beautiful masterpiece?
 
PALMER:  And the robot looks up and goes, can you?
 
Every one of us is not Mozart or Rembrandt or Picasso or choose your super famous amazing artist or artisan. We`re just people. This is not coming to 
 
 kill us. It`s coming to help us.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Ten-second trivia:
 
Located in midtown Manhattan, which of these sports facilities has dubbed the "World`s Most Famous Arena"?
 
Churchill Downs, Yankee Stadium, Madison Square Garden or Silverstone Circuit?
 
The correct answer here is Madison Square Garden, often referred to as The Garden.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  And up next, most of us have heard of facial recognition technology. The software capable of matching a human face from a digital image or video 
 
 against real faces in real time, or a database of faces. While the technology is being praised as a way to heighten security and can make 
 
 things like unlocking your phone quicker and easier, some view it as an invasion of privacy. What do you think?
 
Here`s CNN correspondent Omar Jimenez from inside New York City`s Madison Square Garden.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You`ve come up on (INAUDIBLE) matching somebody on our facial recognition list.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  He was recognized on facial recognition cameras, then confronted.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Are you Benjamin Noren?
 
BENJAMIN NOREN, LAWYER:  Yes.
 
JIMENEZ:  This is how lawyer Benjamin Noren, from one New York City law firm, was greeted by Madison Square Garden staff while trying to attend an 
 
 event in the fall.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The ticket has been revoked and you are not permitted in the building.
 
JIMENEZ:  It`s because Noren works for a law firm representing ticket brokers in a lawsuit against Madison Square Garden Entertainment. All of 
 
 the roughly 60 lawyers at his firm are also banned until the litigation is resolved.
 
Some experts believe it`s a slippery slope, and not just the discretionary power of who else could be flagged in the future, but one method being used 
 
 to enforce it, even if it is legal.
 
DAVE MAASS, DIRECTOR OF INVESTIGATIONS, ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION:  I have read their privacy policy. They explicitly say that the biometrics 
 
 they capture from you can be used for any purpose that would -- that would benefit their economic interest.
 
JIMENEZ:  Some don`t believe it should be used at all.
 
ALBERT FOX CAHN, FOUNDER, SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY OVERSIGHT PROJECT:  And I am terrified of the day where we allow companies to use so many forms of 
 
 tracking and surveillance that, you know, we end up in the middle of one of the largest cities on the planet without any place we can actually go, 
 
 while keeping our privacy.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  And today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re talking about the world`s oldest dog again. Two weeks ago, we brought you Spike, a 23-year-
 
 old Chihuahua mix from Ohio who was named the oldest living dog. But along comes Bobi and Bobi`s like not so fast my man`s best friend. Bobi is a 
 
 Portuguese mastiff from Portugal and at 30 years old, he has now been named the world`s oldest living dog by the Guinness World Records.
 
Having lived twice his life expectancy, he`s also now considered officially the oldest dog to ever live. The previous record of 29 years in five months 
 
 was set back in the 1930s by an Australian cattle dog named Bluey.
 
Bobi`s age has been confirmed by the veterinary medical service and a Portuguese pet database.
 
Thirty years ago, that was 1993 when the World Wide Web was made available to the public for the first time. So, congrats Bobi, that`s a WWW to you.
 
Also winning, Salinas South Middle School in Salina, Kansas -- shout out to you today. Thanks for coming, commenting and subscribing on our CNN 10 
 
 YouTube channel.
 
Have a fan cactus day, y`all. From Arizona, all week, I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10.
 
END