Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Congress Set to Return Amid New Race to Avoid Shutdown; Police Believe Escaped Killer Within Two Miles of Prison; Tens of Thousands Stranded at Festival After Rare, Heavy Rain. Aired 10-10:30a ET

Aired September 04, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Happening now, President Biden speaking in Philadelphia, a speech which feels a bit like a campaign kickoff. What he is saying about Donald Trump and not saying.
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR:  And a critical meeting this morning between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish President Erdogan. The two leaders holding talks that could help ease a global food crisis.
 
BERMAN:  And some hope for tens of thousands of people stuck in the mud at the Burning Man Festival. The single road in and out, it could reopen today.
 
Kate and Sara are off. I'm John Berman with Rahel Solomon and this is CNN News Central.
 
So, this is the last day off before Congress. At least some of them returned to work. The Senate goes back and looming right when they get back, a possible government shutdown. Lawmakers need to pass funding for federal agencies by September 30th when the fiscal year ends.
 
Yet, again, House Speaker Kevin McCarthy is facing pressure from members of the far right Freedom Caucus who are demanding policy changes in exchange for a vote on short-term funding.
 
CNN's Melanie Zanona is in Washington. There really is not much time to handle this, Melanie.
 
MELANIE ZANONA, CNN CAPITOL HILL REPORTER:  Yes, it is pretty complicated, John. And that is because Congress is nowhere near completing their work on their annual spending bills, and so a short- term patch is going to be needed. But they have yet to decide whether they're going to attach the White House request for both disaster aid and Ukraine funding, a request of around $40 billion.
 
The problem is that conservatives said they want to delink those two issues, that they would support disaster aid, but not if it has that Ukraine money attached. And that is just one of several demands that conservatives are laying out in this spending fight. They also said they want to start a Biden impeachment inquiry. They want to boost border security. And they also wanted defund key parts of the Department of Justice. None of those things, of course, likely to happen, but it does present a challenge for Speaker Kevin McCarthy.
 
And I really think Mike Simpson, he's a Republican who serves on one of these spending panels, summed it up perfectly to me. He told me if he, as in McCarthy, works with the Democrats, obviously, the Democrats are not going to do it for free. So, it's going to be a compromise. Then you're going to find a resolution introduced on the floor to vacate the chair.
 
That is a reference to a procedural tool that allows any single member to force a vote on ousting the sitting speaker, something conservatives have threatened to use in the past and are threatening to do again in these funding fights.
 
So, last week, Speaker Kevin McCarthy held a conference call with all of his members. And according to me and my colleague, Manu Raju, he argued that they should hold their fire and really save these funding fights for later in the year, when they do actually do their long-term funding bills.
 <br>[10:05:03]
 
So, we'll see whether that's enough to convince these conservatives to back off, but these next few weeks certainly going to be a messy one for the United States Congress, John.
 
BERMAN:  Messy with a deadline fast approaching. Melanie Zanona, thank you very much. Rahel.
 
SOLOMON:  All right, John. And joining us now to discuss is CNN Political Analyst and Washington Bureau Chief for the Boston Globe Jackie Kucinich. Jackie, good to see you.
 
I want to talk about the shutdown concerns in just a minute, but I'm not sure -- good morning -- I'm not sure if you've been able to listen to President Biden's speech in Philadelphia. Let me play for you a few clips of what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  When the last guy was here, you were shipping jobs to China. Now, we're bringing jobs home from China. When the last guy was here, your pensions were at risk. We helped save millions of pensions with your help. When the last guy was here, he looked at the world from Park Avenue. I look at it from Scranton, Pennsylvania. I look at it from Claymont, Delaware.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  Scranton, of course, a more blue collar area of Pennsylvania, about 100 miles away from Philly.
 
Jackie, is this a sense of what we're going to hear more from the campaign, so not leaning into Donald Trump by name, but certainly attacking his record, the last guy this, the last guy that, but also, notably, not, from what I heard, say anything about any of these indictments?
 
JACKIE KUCINICH, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  I mean, his administration has been steadfast on not addressing any of the indictments because he wants to maintain that separation between the White House and the Department of Justice, which, traditionally, before the Trump administration, was actually a thing that happened quite often.
 
That crowd, in particular, a union crowd, is a very key group for Biden. And it's one that he's having trouble right now, really hanging onto. He has a UAW president who's very upset with him and some of the regulations that his administration has been pushing. There's potentially a strike on the horizon, or at least that's what they're threatening at this point.
 
So, I think not only is that messaging what you're going to hear, you're going to hear a lot of messaging to unions in particular, what he has done for them and tried to make their lives better will be a constant theme that we hear as we go into what's going to be quite the election year.
 
SOLOMON:  Yes, that's to say the least, Jackie, for sure. Let's circle back to what our Melanie Zanona was reporting, just laying out, time is ticking to get this short -term funding bill done by the end of the month. I mean, lay out, Jackie, what's at stake here?
 
KUCINICH:  I mean, so many things are at stake. No one really wants a government shutdown. I mean, maybe some of the more conservative members, but government shutdowns aren't really good for anyone. Now, how to avoid one? There is a bit of a difference of opinion.
 
Some of the things that Kevin McCarthy is dealing with is his conservative members wanting to attach these culture war issues into these spending bills. And that's going to be dead on arrival in the Senate, as well as at the White House. So, he's going to need to thread that needle.
 
One of the interesting things that -- the one of the interesting points that he's making, or trying to make to his members, is he's saying that if they do shut down the government, they're not going to be able to forward with these investigations into Biden with an impeachment inquiry because the government will be shut down and these investigations will shut down and there will be a fight over the funding, so they will be able to focus on these other things.
 
So, he's really trying anything he can so he can move forward with actually governing, which has sort of been a theme. We've heard this music before under the Kevin McCarthy show.
 
SOLOMON:  Yes, it sounds like he's trying to incentivize some of those hard line Republicans to get this done, to pursue the things that they care most about, apparently. 
 
Jackie, we also know that the FEMA funding is at the center of this. Hard line House Republicans want that funding separated from the aid for Ukraine, but the White House and Dems essentially see that as necessary, I mean, to get it done. So, what's the likelihood of that happening?
 
KUCINICH:  I don't think it's anyone's guess. Again, this is another challenge for Kevin McCarthy. But as Melanie points out, it potentially being removed as speaker is always going to be something hanging over his head, which is why when you have those team votes for speaker, there was such a resistance to having this motion to vacate being able to be triggered by a few members until we just got back to one.
 
That is always going to be a concern of his and he's always going to be looking over his shoulder, which will limit what he's actually able to do and how much he's able to work with Democrats in order to keep the government funding to make sure these FEMA funds go through and to get funding to Ukraine, which a lot of his membership does not want.
 
SOLOMON:  Yes, certainly a lot at stake as he continues to do this dance that we saw him do with a debt ceiling deal, a lot to watch here.
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
Jackie Kucinich, good to see you. Thank you. John?
 
BERMAN:  So, this morning, investigators are intensifying their manhunt for an escaped killer in Pennsylvania. Police think he is likely still within about a two-mile radius of the prison where he was being held. Some residents there expressing their frustration.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LANCE LEMAN, WEST CHESTER, PENNSYLVANIA RESIDENT:  The fact that this guy is still out there after all this time, it's insane.
 
We thought it would be over with by now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN:  So, a security camera caught sight of the fugitive early Saturday morning.
 
Polo Sandoval is following the very latest. Polo, what are you learning?
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  John, the Chester County District Attorney's office announcing that we can expect an update later on this afternoon at about 1:00 P.M. Eastern, along from hearing from state police, who have really been leading the way here in terms of the manhunt now entering its essentially it's four days now that they've been searching for Danelo Souza Cavalcante, this 34-year-old man that escaped a prison in Pennsylvania on Thursday.
 
And, initially, investigators had said on Friday that they were concerned that he may be headed towards Mexico and eventually his native Brazil. But then that ring camera video that you just mentioned essentially breathing new life into the investigation and authorities really focusing on Pocopson Township, which you'll find about 40 miles west of Philadelphia. And that is why we have seen hundreds of local, state, federal law enforcement officers really descending on the area there.
 
The biggest concern right now, or at least one of the many concerns, is that perhaps some of those individuals that may have traveled out away from their homes for the extended weekend that they may be returning home today.
 
So, they are urging caution right now for some of the residents in that area. It's described as a heavily wooded area, also with hundreds of homes. So, authorities there have been searching not only by land but also by air.
 
Some quick background on Cavalcante, he had just started serving a life sentence after being convicted for stabbing his girlfriend to death in 2021. That killing happened in front of the woman's own children. So, that is why authorities say that this individual was considered extremely dangerous. Relatively small, about five feet tall, 120 pounds, black curly hair. And, again, investigators believe he is still in Southeast Pennsylvania, as we expect to hear from authorities later this afternoon. We'll bring you any updates. John?
 
BERMAN:  Polo, any information about how he broke out? That's still a lingering question now. Days later, we did hear from the Chester County District Attorney's office over the weekend saying that they will eventually be in a position where they can share that information. But she reiterated that their priority right now is getting this individual's photo out there, warning residents and tracking them down.
 
BERMAN:  All right. Polo Sandoval, please keep us posted, obviously a developing situation. Rahel?
 
SOLOMON:  All right, John. And coming up for us, stuck in the mud for days at Burning Man. Well, the sun is coming up, and CNN's Camila Bernal is monitoring the situation there in the Nevada desert. Camila? 
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, it's still muddy, it's still messy, and that thick, cakey mud is still not completely dry. But as you mentioned, the sun is out. We'll talk about the shelter in place and what people have done to get out of here. There is some sort of desperation as everyone tries to make their way out.
 
We'll talk about all of that live, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
SOLOMON:  This morning, it is getting easier for tens of thousands of festivalgoers to actually move around at the popular Burning Man Festival. For days, they've been trapped in this area with thick ankle-deep mud after heavy rain swamped the annual event in the Nevada desert. Organizers say that the hope is that conditions will soon be dry enough for the roads to reopen.
 
But with the festival's grand finale now scheduled for tonight, which is a burning of a giant stick structure, most mud-struck campers say that they're ready to stick it out a little longer.
 
CNN's Camila Bernal joins us now. So, Camila, you've been there, you were there yesterday as well. How have conditions improved, if at all?
 
BERNAL:  Yes, things are much better. All day yesterday, it was rainy, it was cloudy, and as you can see now, the sun is out. And this is exactly what they need for that very thick, cakey mud to dry up.
 
We're right at the main entrance and exit to the festival. This is what they call the eight-mile playa access. Behind me, what you see there is the playa, and I can still see that there's an area that is muddy and wet. But as you're seeing in those images, there's now many cars that are making their way out.
 
And in comparison to what I saw yesterday, there's less mud on those cars. Nonetheless, as people are coming out, they are honking and they are cheering and saying, we made it out. And that's because it's been extremely difficult over the last couple of days.
 
I've talked to people who have walked for miles with their shoes wrapped in plastic bags, telling me that the mud was just sticking on their shoes and making it very difficult to walk. Other people have told me that they were trying to get out. Their cars stuck for hours in that mud.
 
So, hopefully, that's not the case today. The shelter in place is still ongoing. We're waiting to hear from organizers. But I will say people who have to leave are making their way out, and they're allowed to do so. I did see my first walker of the day with a suitcase. They're just trying to get a ride from whoever they can.
 
And, look, they're not the only ones. The celebrities were going through this as well. D.J. Diplo, who was here over the last couple of days, had to get a ride with Chris Rock. He was on CNN This Morning and here's what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DIPLO, MUSIC PRODUCER AND D.J.:  I'm glad I made it out. But I think it's people that Burning Man, the organizers are very prepared.
 <br>[10:20:01]
 
It doesn't rain often. It's the first time, I think, in history it rained during the festival, but it rains sometimes and they're prepared for this kind of situation.
 
Everybody were having a good time. People are making mud sculptures, huge sculptures out of mud and just kind of continuing their art. And they might be out there for two extra days, but they had a great time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) BERNAL:  And just like Diplo said, people were prepared for the most part. The problem was that when you come here, you bring the exact amount of food and water that you need for the days that you're going to stay. So, if you extend that by a day or two, people do start running out of water and fuel and supplies.
 
And so that really was the concern for a lot of people and just the fact that they needed to get out, some people had to go to work, for example, but everybody just extremely positive, rahel, and saying that they're still having a great time.
 
SOLOMON:  Yes. It's been so interesting learning all about the Burning Man community and hearing people say that they've been sharing food and they've been sharing resources. So, really fascinating.
 
Camila Bernal, thank you. John?
 
BERMAN:  All right. So what is it like to be mud-logged in the middle of the desert during a huge event like this? Luckily, there is Wi-Fi and people have been sharing their experiences.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOBBY WHITE, ATTENDING BURNING MAN FESTIVAL:  Everything is beginning to dry out, but the roads are still pretty sloppy and in bad shape. Definitely not okay to drive on.
 
They're asking everybody to conserve water and food and ration, whatever you need, we got plenty. Problem is the port-a-potties are getting a little overloaded. A lot of the bars have started opening back up. It will probably be a big party tonight because there's nothing better to do. We're stuck.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN:  That was Bobby White and he joins me now. Bobby, you said there will probably be a big party tonight. Was there? And if so, how was it?
 
WHITE:  On Saturday night, there were a few parties, for sure, but a lot of the camps have already started closing down, especially last night. There wasn't too much open last night.
 
BERMAN:  Did it make it more fun? I mean, sometimes, look, they say when it rains at a wedding, it's good luck. I think they just say that to make people feel better. But it can make the event, it can make people pull together. Is there an element of truth here on that?
 
WHITE:  Oh, sure. I mean, this is going to be one of those years when you look back and be like, oh, I was there in 2023. How was your experience with that? And it is kind of a bonding thing, and that's kind of the whole thing about Burning Man. It's the journey, not the destination-type thing. This is definitely part of the journey.
 
BERMAN:  So, how muddy was it at its worst? WHITE:  Well, I've been coming to Burning Man for ten years now, and you got to be prepared for that. Any -- even just the slightest bit of rain makes everything super slick. And you can't ride your bicycle around. That's how most people get around out here, because the mud just cakes up on the tires and then it just adds up. And then you walk around on your feet, you have, like, five pounds of mud on your feet and, yes, any little bit of rain, and it makes the playa untravelable, and you got to be prepared for that.
 
BERMAN:  So, I don't know exactly what it is you're wearing, if it's a coat or a blanket or a shawl, but I do know it's very white. There doesn't seem to be a speck of mud on it. How have you kept that clean for the last several days?
 
WHITE:  Yes, I don't know. Many people have said that, but it's cold out here today. At night, it gets pretty cold. And I've worn this. I've just managed not to roll around in it. Normally, actually, I think it's probably cleaner than it would be, because the dust would normally be blowing and catching and all that, but there's no dust for it because it's all mud. So, yes, it stayed relatively clean.
 
But, yes, it's just at night out here, you have to be lit up, so that's kind of a glowing jacket, because you can get run over by a bicycle if you're not lit up.
 
BERMAN:  You've chosen to stay, obviously, so have thousands of other people. Why? Why is it important to be there until the end?
 
WHITE:  Well, I think it's more of -- I mean, I have my R.V. here and all my other campmates have either R.V.s or big rental trucks or things like that. And getting those out was basically impossible. I mean, sure, you could have walked out, but what am I going to do with all my stuff?
 
It just -- the moment it started raining, I think most people here were pretty -- just accepted it. There's no reason to get upset, be like, okay, it's raining, that means we're going to be stuck here maybe a couple of extra days. And that's just one thing you kind of have to plan for when you come to Burning Man. It's not always going to be easy.
 
Up until Friday, we were all saying that this was probably the best weather we've had at Burning Man in a decade.
 
BERMAN:  Well, you jinxed it. I mean, clearly you're partly to blame for having said that out loud.
 
WHITE:  Yes.
 
BERMAN:  Bobby White, listen, thank you.
 
WHITE:  I'll take the responsibility.
 
BERMAN:  Thank you for being with us.
 
WHITE:  Thank you. BERMAN:  Glad you've made it through. Have a great burn tonight, if you're there for the actual burning of the wooden straw man. I hope it goes well for you.
 
WHITE:  All right. I appreciate it. We'll do it.
 
BERMAN:  Rahel?
 
SOLOMON:  And still ahead for us, a defense shakeup and a promise of a new direction from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
 <br>[10:25:04]
 
What this could mean for the war, when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN:  This morning, Ukrainian officials say that two people were injured in a Russian attack around Port Reni. That's down here. I can show you a close up of this region, and it tells a very interesting and dangerous story.
 <br>[10:30:01]
 
The port, which is right here, is on the Danube River. Let me show you where that river goes.