Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: FBI: Car Explosion At Canadian Border Not Terrorism; Soon: Qatari Officials Give Update On Delayed Truce Deal; Israel: No Hostage Release Before Friday; What The OpenAI Chaos Means For Technology's Future; Entertainment Icons Sued In Sex Assault Cases. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired November 23, 2023 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[06:30:00]
 
ATHENA JONES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Holiday travelers stuck.
 
RYAN SMITH, VISITING NIAGRA FALLS FROM THE U.S.: We came over here. Hoping to see the falls. Just -- for the day we walked over. Our cars actually in New York right now.
 
JONES (voice-over): The Rainbow Bridge where the accident took place remains closed while the three other crossings have reopened.
 
JOE GLANCOLA, VISITING CANADA FROM THE U.S.: If it can't go home, we're not (INAUDIBLE) or less.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
JONES: So, a frightening few hours here at the U.S.-Canada border on the eve of Thanksgiving, but no explosives found, no links to terrorism. The case is now being turned over to local police as a traffic investigation. Erica?
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR: Athena, appreciate it. Thank you.
 
Poppy?
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: In just a couple of hours, those huge balloons will fly high above New York City for the 97th annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. Officials there say no big security concerns this year. There is an abundance of preparation, though still underway.
 
Our Brynn Gingras joins us at the start of the parade route.
 
You're so lucky. You get to be there. I always think that's one of the best assignments on Thanksgiving. What can you tell us?
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Oh, it totally is everything's giving Poppy and Erica. Yes, listen, there are no credible threats to New York City or this event in particular, according to law enforcement, who gave us a big briefing about all the security measures that they are taking for today's big day. But you can already see some of those measures. I mean, this is very different from what we've seen in the past. But you can see all the NYPD people here, getting ready, getting there sort of, you know, overview of where they're going to be throughout the parade route. We've already seen sanitation trucks blocking some of the streets points of entries to the parade route. We saw an ESU truck just driving.
 
So, a number of measures that we do see, but also, of course, the ones that we don't see. We know ever since this war broke out in the Middle East that New York City has been in a, you know, threatened heightened threat environment. And so, intelligence has said that there has been more, you know, online calls for violence.
 
So, there are people behind the scenes of course working to make sure that this parade goes off without a hitch as they had done for so many years. So, the people here about three and a half million people who come out to this break and enjoy it safely. Guys.
 
HARLOW: Enjoy it, including the giant turkey behind you. And the new balloons this year, Brynn.
 
GINGRAS: Yes.
 
HARLOW: Happy Thanksgiving. Thank you so much.
 
GINGRAS: Yes.
 
HILL: Well, the delay in the hostage release really amping up the anxiety for so many of these families. They have been waiting now 47 days to see their loved ones, to have some word. Up next, you're going to hear from the mother of a 12-year-old and a 16-year-old. Both of her children kidnapped by Hamas on October 7th.
 
HARLOW: Also, ahead for us our sit down with the NBA legend Doc Rivers on his remarkable journey and what he's learned along the way.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DOC RIVERS, NBA LEGEND: I got it wrong early in coaching I thought you just coached basketball. And then I realized, no you coach a life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:36:38]
 
HILL: We are standing by right now for a press conference from the Qatari Minister of Foreign Affairs. Now, you may recall earlier this morning, we had been told Qatar would announce the timing for the start of this truce following that delay. We were told that announcement would be made within a matter of hours. So, we are monitoring these developments. Again, we are expecting this press conference to start shortly.
 
As we wait of course this comes as the families of the hostages held by Hamas continue to wait and during yet another agonizing day. Hadas Kalderon had to have her children kidnapped on October 7th along with their father, her ex-husband.
 
CNN's Clarissa Ward spoke with her.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on-camera): Tell me what you're going through now. Are you hopeful? Are you anxious? Are you in denial?
 
HADAS KALDERON, MOTHER OF HOSTAGES: All of the above. I smile. I laugh and then I cry and they're like.
 
WARD (on-camera): Do you know anything? Have you heard anything?
 
KALDERON: Nobody knows anything. Nobody. Nobody. No information. I have to play we have to (INAUDIBLE). Every day is all the stuff. I don't want to think, I don't feel because it's too painful. You know, when they start to ask me like interview like you, show me the picture of your child. Tell me what last thing he told you. Then -- it's breaking my heart, because the last thing he told me was mum. Be quiet. I love you. He was worried for me.
 
WARD (on-camera): When you think of God willing, your babies come home and are part of this release, do you worry about how they will be changed by what they experience?
 
KALDERON: They are change. They won't be the same. They got -- they been kidnap brutally way from their beds, from the house was a safe place. They kidnap the instance in this day.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: Yes. And joining us now is Gershon Baskin, Middle East Director of International Communities Organization. He played a key role in the negotiations to release Israeli soldiers (INAUDIBLE) a lead in 2011.
 
Gershon, thank you so much. Why do you believe there is this delay?
 
GERSHON BASKIN, MIDDLE EAST DIRECTOR, INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITIES ORGANIZATION: I hope that it's over technical, logistic issues. If they are the technical and logistical issues can be resolved, maybe that's what the Deputy Foreign Minister of Qatar will be telling us soon. I hope it's not something more substantial, that would require a much longer delay. I've heard some things I'd rather not talk about what I heard. I'm wanting to hope that this is going to be resolved now.
 
HILL: Would those things if you heard I understand you may not want to get into details. But do they raise concerns for you that this deal may not in fact go into effect?
 
BASKIN: No, I think the deal will take effect. It has to this is the low hanging fruit. This is a no brainer. It's a deal that should have been made weeks ago and it can be made now or tomorrow or the next day. Hamas, I don't believe has any real interest in holding the women in the children, the elderly, the sick, the wounded. Israel has women and teenage prisoners that it can release without a tremendous risk to Israel. They're all from the West Bank. None of them have murdered Israelis although some of them trying to murder Israelis. It's a deal that's doable and has to be done because we have to bring those hostage's home.
 <br>[06:40:08]
 
HARLOW: Why do you think it is the U.S. has a working list with some of the details of the 10 first hostages that are planned to be released but not names. And I wonder why that is Israel released the list yesterday of 300 Palestinian prisoners it would be willing to exchange. Why would Hamas not put the names out?
 
BASKIN: That's the way Hamas say it works. They leave everything to the last minute, they leave you hanging and wondering, they -- it's part of the game that they play and manipulating everyone else who's involved. It's part of the torture, they're putting the Israeli public through as we just heard from that mother, and if you don't want to cry you from listening to that, then you're not human.
 
HILL: It's -- you are 100 percent right on that. There, there is this confusion, frankly, head scratching moment this morning about the Red Cross. So, we just spoke with the IDF. Understandably, it doesn't fall under their domain. But we're not getting any answers after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said this was part of the deal. The Red Cross would be going in, they would bring me medicine, they would be visiting with hostages. The Red Cross this morning says they haven't been made aware of any agreement. Does that surprise you?
 
BASKIN: Nothing surprised me. Of course, the Red Cross wants to go in. That's their mission. They go into dangerous zones. They are not participants in any conflict. They are completely neutral. And they are the best ones to do the job of receiving hostages and transferring prisoners and going in to see hostages. But they can't do it without an agreement of Hamas. I'm sure that this was the demand of Israel. I'm quite certain that President Biden made it clear to the Qataris, that this has to be part of the deal.
 
But there's no guarantee that the Qataris can force the Hamas to do anything, particularly when the Hamas leaders in Doha are not the decision makers here. The decisions are being made in the tunnels and command centers underneath the ground in Gaza. And there is not necessarily a direct communication link between Gaza and Doha.
 
HARLOW: There is majority support for this deal across Israel. But there are some criticism, as you know, including from Israel's Security Minister, who pointed to the deal you made helped facilitate for Gilat Shalit, because that included the release of Yahya Sinwar who's now of course, heading Hamas.
 
And when we looked at this list that Israel released of the 300 Palestinian prisoners, it would be willing to release an exchange on it mainly 16 to 18-year-old young men, some of them members of Hamas, or Islamic Jihad. Should that be of security concern to people?
 
BASKIN: I think this the security people have to be wide open with their eyes on these people, once they're released to go back home. Those in particular who are considered by Israel dangerous, they're going to go back to their homes in the West Bank and in East Jerusalem, where Israel has full access to them, and can be on top of them. And there's nothing to prevent Israel from re-arresting them, should they be planning attacks against Israel. But of course, the security people are going to have to be watching them, of course.
 
HILL: We have some reporting that there's some concern within the Biden administration, that another potential consequence of this pause would be that as perhaps more journalists are allowed into Gaza, as there is more of the destruction that is maybe seen in the devastation that that could turn public opinion against Israel. Do you see that as a valid concern?
 
BASKIN: No, I don't. And the Arab media, anyone who has been watching Arab media, Palestinian television stations, or any television stations in the Arab world, has seen already 47 days of destruction in Gaza, as opposed to what we see on the Israeli television, which is just the physical destruction. I watch Palestinian television stations and you see the humanitarian catastrophe that's happening in Gaza. It is catastrophic. It is horrific to watch and bringing in more journalists to document it won't change anything. It's already out there. Anyone who wants to see it can see it.
 
HILL: Gershon Baskin, always appreciate your insight and your expertise. Thank you for being with us this morning.
 
BASKIN: Thank you.
 
HILL: There's an urgent search and rescue mission underway after a deadly mudslide in Alaska. We told you a little bit about this. So, we're going to update you to the new warning this morning. This threat not over.
 
HARLOW: And the battle for the future of artificial intelligence, what Sam Altman's return to the top of OpenAI means for humanity and for the future of this technology?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:48:52]
 
HILL: Officials at Alaska Department of Safety are warning more mudslides could come that weren't coming this morning following the mudslide on Monday which killed three people including a young girl and left behind it as you can see here just a trail of damage as well. Search and rescue teams are still looking desperately for three other people who are missing.
 
So, this all happened in the remote fishing community of wrangle. This was on the heels of heavy rains. Officials are urging residents to avoid the area. HARLOW: So, all week, right? We've been telling you about all the drama at OpenAI. Let's take a step back for a moment and really explain why it matters to you. So, it was about 120 hours of absolute chaos, that Sam Altman was fired as CEO, got a new job, then came back as CEO of the company that he co-founded. The drama has all the makings of a Hollywood blockbuster. But it's actually one you should care about.
 
And here's why a key factor in Altman's ouster was tension between he and the board over how quickly to move on AI development. Altman wanted to push more aggressively the Board more cautiously. That's according to CNN contributor Kara Swisher.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARA SWISHER, CNN CONTRIBUTOR (on-camera): I thought this was is a ridiculous rondalee of nonsense. I called it a goat rodeo. It was a waste of time. And I think he was moving faster than they liked. And instead of dealing with it, they did this dramatic thing. And I don't know, I felt like there was nine other ways to do this. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[06:50:14]
 
HARLOW: In the end, Altman one and here's again, why you should care. OpenAI is the leading artificial intelligence company, they built ChatGPT. And Bill Gates says, quote, the development of AI is as fundamental as the creation of the personal computer, the internet, and the mobile phone. The vision of the person at the top of OpenAI will steer the technology's future. And that is Sam Altman. And here's what he said just this summer.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAM ALTMAN, CEO, OPENAI: Like, no one person should be trusted here. I don't have super voting shares. Like, I don't want them, the board can fire me, I think that's important. I think the board over time needs to get like, democratized to all of humanity.
 
If this really works, it's like quite a powerful technology. And you should not trust one company and certainly not one person with it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: And AI is already changing a huge part of your life, of society, of jobs.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BILL GATES, CO-FOUNDER, MICROSOFT: Is going to change jobs in a pretty dramatic way. It's going to make people more productive, and help out. So yes, this is a world changing set of advances.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) HARLOW: And that's Bill Gates, he would know 300 million full time jobs around the world eventually could be automated in some way, according to Goldman Sachs, 14 million positions could just disappear in the next five years alone, according to the World Economic Forum. And to give you a sense of how powerful ChatGPT is, according to two reports, Google found that in theory, it would hire it the bot as an entry level coder if it interviewed at the company. Amazon employees who tested ChatGPT said it does a quote very good job of answering customer support questions as well as questions about corporate strategy. And ChatGPT is one of the fastest growing tech products of all time.
 
The company says this month, 100 million people use it every day, 92 percent of Fortune 500 companies are using OpenAI and 2 million developers are using their tools to build their own AI products and businesses. And this all just happened in about a year.
 
It's not just that different types of AI are already built in your daily life. And you might not even know what it is behind facial recognition on your smartphone. You hear it, when you use Siri on your phone. You see it in the algorithms that optimize of search results or your social media feeds. It's involved in your online shopping. And right now, the industry is essentially totally unregulated.
 
Again, here's Sam Altman testifying before Congress in May on why that should change.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALTMAN: My worst fears are that we caused significant we the field the technology, the industry caused significant harm to the world. So, I think there needs to be incredible scrutiny on us and our competitors.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: The drama at OpenAI also leaves an opening for other companies like Google to accelerate their AI development, all these companies are going to have to wait profit and societal impact. Here's how our colleague Brian Fung put it so well, quote, the dispute appears to have done long term damage to the credibility of certain deep skeptics of AI and lifted the fortunes of the Microsoft's and Altman's of the world who are pushing to get artificial intelligence into the hands of the public. And that may have untold ripple effects for AI development for years to come.
 
So yes, this will probably become a Hollywood blockbuster. It's one you should pay close attention to.
 
Erica.
 
HILL: That is exactly the explainer. I knew you would give me. Poppy, thank you.
 
Two entertainment icons this morning accused of sexual assault and battery. Why Jamie Foxx and Axl Rose are facing these lawsuits now. HARLOW: Plus, Israel says it will allow the Red Cross to cross into Gaza as part of this delay truce deal. The Red Cross though, says it has no idea about the agreement. We're going to be joined by an Israeli diplomat here in New York to try to get some facts about what is happening on that front.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:57:49]
 
HILL: This morning two icons of entertainment accused of sexual assault and battery. Jamie Foxx is facing or claims in a lawsuit filed with New York's Supreme Court. The alleged incident happened at a Manhattan restaurant in 2015. And Guns N' Roses front man Axl Rose is accused of sexually assaulting model and actress Sheila Kennedy back in 1989. They are two of a number of celebrities now facing accusations. This recent wave of lawsuits coming as a key deadline looms for the State's Adult Survivors Act which allows survivors just sue even if the statute of limitations has passed. That law though does expire tomorrow.
 
CNN's Jean Casarez joining us this morning with more. Does it really ahead of this expiration?
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. It seems like there's a flurry -- 
 
HILL: Yes.
 
CASAREZ: -- of celebrity filings right now. And this is the latest one, Jamie Foxx it is 1989 -- 2015. The alleged victim is asserting it was a restaurant in New York City Chase NYC which is down in the Meatpacking District. And they have a rooftop area that is a restaurant and bar area. And the alleged victim is saying that she and her friend got there about 11:00 p.m. and that Jamie Foxx and the owner of the restaurant, were sitting at the table right next to them and all of a sudden, all these people started crowding around the table because Jamie Foxx was there. And the management told them please disperse, get away but they didn't say anything to she and her friend. They were right there.
 
So, time went on, the hours went on. It seems like there weren't too many there except the employees and the owner and Jamie Foxx. They wanted a picture with Jamie Foxx. So, he came over took a picture. And then he told the alleged victim that she was very beautiful that he reminded her of Gabrielle Union. And so, she said that at that point that he forcibly sort of grabbed her and took her to the side of that rooftop area and started unwanted touching underneath her blouse, she alleges down her shirt.
 
And the vision that is portrayed in this complaint is that all the employees were standing there, the owner was standing there, everyone was there, nobody did anything. That's how this comes about. And she's suing the restaurant and the employees and the owner and everything for negligent hiring and training. But we have reached out to Jamie Foxx's representatives. We have not heard anything at this point. HARLOW: And what about the claim against Axl Rose?
 <br>[07:00:02]
 
CASAREZ: Well, this is -- oh I'm sorry this is 1989.
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
CASAREZ: So, this long time ago. She met in a nightclub, Axl Rose he invited.