Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Tropical Storm Idalia Expected to Become a Hurricane, Makes Its Way Toward The Western Coast of Florida; New Screen Time Limits in China Could Become Law; U.S. Eight States Have Abolished The Tipped Minimum Wage, But Some Business Owners And Employees Don`t Want The Change. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired August 29, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello sunshine. Ahead of today`s CNN 10, I`m at CNN Center covering a few sports stories like this past weekend, Simone 
 
 Biles, the most decorated gymnast of all time doing it again, winning a record eighth all around national championship in just her second 
 
 competition back after two years off. 
 
The high-flying star took time away from the sport after the Tokyo Olympics to focus in part on her mental health. She got married too, but she`s back. 
 
Up next for the goal, the world championships in Belgium. Up next for us today`s episode of CNN 10. 
 
Hello friends, hope you`re having a wonderful day. Let`s start by making this terrific teacher Tuesday. Shout out to all the teachers uplifting, 
 
 informing and inspiring us. Dap up your teacher today. Give a handshake or high five. Let them know we see you. 
 
I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. The best 10 minutes in news. 
 
We start today with tropical storm Idalia. It has been picking up energy, making its way towards the western coast of Florida. It`s forecast to be 
 
 strengthened into a major Category 3 hurricane before making landfall this week, possibly Wednesday morning, putting millions of people in harm`s way. 
 
 At the time of this recording, life threatening storm surges and dangerous winds were forecast for Florida`s Gulf Coast as early as Tuesday. 
 
The National Hurricane Center had issued hurricane watches for the coast from Sarasota County in the south all the way northwest to Franklin County. 
 
 Florida Governor Ron DeSantis declared a state of emergency for dozens of counties hoping to give communities the resources they need to endure the 
 
 storm. 
 
And state officials had urged residents to prepare for Idalia as hurricane, tropical storm and storm surge watches and warnings were issued for cities 
 
 along the coast. A hurricane warning was also in effect for parts of Cuba and a tropical storm warning was in effect for the Yucatan Peninsula. 
 
A watch doesn`t mean those conditions will definitely happen, only that they`re possible. A hurricane, tropical storm or storm surge warning, 
 
 however, is much more serious because it means that those conditions are imminent. With storms like this, things can change in a moment`s notice, 
 
 though. That`s why the National Hurricane Center issues updates every six hours, always giving updates at 5 a.m., 11 a.m., 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. Eastern 
 
 time. 
 
Screen time, it`s been a debate over phones and tablets for many years. How much time on an illuminated screen is too much?
 
One study published last week by a pediatric group in Japan suggests a negative link between early childhood use and higher risk for developmental 
 
 delays. But that`s just one of many projects around the world aimed at understanding the pros and cons of a screen-obsessed population. 
 
In China, screen time limits could become law. A new government initiative could legally restrict children`s time spent on smartphones and tablets to 
 
 between 40 minutes and two hours depending on age. Some parents are happy about it and say that it`ll ease tensions at home, but certain experts feel 
 
 it`s too much government overreach and could set China back economically and culturally. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  China`s answer, minor mode, a proposed law to order tech giants to limit children`s screen time and shut off apps. For one 
 
 tired parent, the proposed rules would be a relief. 
 
CRYSTAL GUO, MOTHER IN GUANGZHOU:  This would be wonderful if it were true. There would be less anger between us. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Under the new mode, children under 18 will get a maximum of two hours on smartphones per day and will be locked out 
 
 overnight. But Beijing`s top-down approach has its critics. 
 
ANDREW COLLIER, ORIENT CAPITAL RESEARCH:  The broader worry I have is that China under the current leadership is imposing a very strict cultural 
 
 moralism on their citizens, which is not going to be necessarily helpful for their personal growth or for the future of the Chinese economy. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  As part of China`s broader digital crackdown, minors are already banned from gaming on weekdays. Social media apps have time 
 
 limits and some parents ship their children off to boot camps to kick internet addiction. 
 
Children are also finding ways around Beijing`s rules. This 10-year-old explains. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  Some kids use their parents` ID to log in. They never put their phones down. They`ll look at it until the 
 
 battery runs out. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The new guidelines order internet providers to highlight socialist and patriotic content and promote family values. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  It takes away from your time to play, exercise and read. It takes away from your time to do more 
 
 interesting things. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  But her son says parents need to lead by example. It`s not easy to control myself, but adults can`t either. A battle over screen 
 
 time that`s far from over. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Ten Second Trivia. 
 
In the U.S. what is the current federal minimum wage per hour?
 
$5.50, $7.25, $10 or $15?
 
Though 30 states have a higher minimum wage, the current federal minimum is $7.25. 
 
There is also something called a tipped minimum wage, meaning if a portion of your pay comes from tips, from customers, your employer can pay you less 
 
 than minimum wage. The current federal tipped minimum wage is $2.13 per hour. So servers and other tipped workers can be paid $2.13 per hour by 
 
 their employers with the understanding that they`ll likely earn enough money through tips to get them to at least the state`s minimum wage. 
 
But there is a movement by some U.S. states to get rid of the tipped minimum wage and eight states have abolished it. One fair wage is a group 
 
 pushing for businesses to be required to raise the pay of these employees to the state`s minimum wage, plus tips. But some business owners worry this 
 
 could end up hurting their bottom line, ultimately driving up prices for customers. Some employees worry that the new initiative could actually 
 
 decrease their overall take-home pay. CNN`s Business and Politics Correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich is looking at the changing landscape of 
 
 tipping. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS &amp; POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  This screen is stressful for many. 
 
(On camera):  Does the flip of the screen feel like a lot of pressure? 
 
CARLY CULLEN, NEW YORKER:  It does, and they give you options like 10, 15, 20, even with like Uber, Dash, and like Grubhub, all of it. Like 
 
 everything`s tip, tip, tip. 
 
YURKEVICH:  Do you think that tipping has gotten out of control? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Yes. 
 
YURKEVICH:  Tips are part of American culture, meant to be a thank you for good service. But today, more and more Americans are confronted with the 
 
 question, would you like to add a tip? 
 
CULLEN:  It is tricky everywhere, right? Like if you`re at a coffee shop, if you`re at a hair stylist, if you`re coming out of a taxi, like I don`t 
 
 know the rules then and I often don`t know what to tip. 
 
YURKEVICH:  A recent study found that in a high number of cases, participants who were presented with a tip screen had more negative 
 
 emotions to the payment experience than those that didn`t. And it wasn`t even a real-world scenario. 
 
DYLAN BOSCH, NEW YORKER:  Listen, you go to a coffee shop and all they do just twist around the laptop is like, why am I tipping? 
 
YURKEVICH:  But the small group we spoke to said more often than not, they do end up tipping. 
 
JOSEPH GUZMEN, NEW YORKER:  I put a dollar or two, I don`t mind. As long as like, you know, it`s not a lot, I just put it, because I don`t mind. I 
 
 don`t think I`m helping out, you know, other people. 
 
YURKEVICH:  This is provisions on state, a butcher shop. There`s no table service, no cooking or serving. Yet, they`ll ask you if you`d like to tip. 
 
(On camera):  A flip screen in a butcher shop? 
 
EMILY MINGRONE, CONNECTICUT RESTAURANT OWNER:  Yes. 
 
YURKEVICH:  I don`t think I`ve ever seen that before. 
 
MINGRONE:  Yes. 
 
YURKEVICH:  How`d you decide to do that? 
 
MINGRONE:  These men and women have a knowledge base that they`re sharing and taking care to share with the guests that come through the door. And 
 
 they`re not pressured to tip, but they want to because they`re paying for a service provided. 
 
YURKEVICH:  This movement to get rid of the tip minimum wage, are you for it, against it? 
 
MINGRONE:  I`m against it, and I think frankly it`s kind of clueless. 
 
YURKEVICH:  Eight states have abolished the tip minimum wage, which in some is as low as $2.13 an hour. The National Restaurant Association is fighting 
 
 against it, calling it a top issue. 
 
MINGRONE:  That`s money that`s going to come out of my pocket, take away from the people that aren`t getting tipped. I would need to raise my 
 
 prices, which then causes pushback from the guests. 
 
YURKEVICH:  But the group One Fair Wage is moving legislation and ballot measures to end the tip minimum wage in 25 other states, including 
 
 Illinois. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  All right, is today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, a good one? You butter believe it. Each year at the Minnesota State Fair, 900 pounds of 
 
 butter carved into 10 sculptures representing the 10 finalists in the Princess Kay of the Milky Way contest. 
 
Butter sculpting at the state fair began in 1898 as a way to highlight Minnesota`s claim as the butter capital of the nation. Battling the 
 
 slightest margarine of air and the 40-degree temps in the refrigerator so the masterpieces don`t melt, these modern-day milk- Mikelangelo`s sculpt 
 
 away as it turns out, Emma Kubal was crowned this year`s winner, but all the finalists get to keep their sculptures. Doesn`t get any butter than 
 
 that. 
 
We`re looking for #YourWordWednesday submissions, your vocabulary word in tomorrow`s show. Follow me @Coywire and put your word and definition in the 
 
 comment section of the most recent posts, and we`ll choose a winner to work into tomorrow`s show along with a shout out to you and your school. 
 
Our shout out today is going to the Sipp, Center High School in Olive Branch, Mississippi, rise up. Keep shining bright, lovely people. I`m Coy 
 
 Wire. And we are CNN 10.
 
END