Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: At Least 78 Killed In Yemen Crowd Surge; Violent Clashed Reported Despite Second Ceasefire In Sudan; CNN Crew Has A Close Call During Russian Missile Strike; Russian Flet Surveilling Nordic Waters; K-Pop Singer Moonbin Dies At 25; U.N. To Hold Talks Seeking Unified Approach To Taliban. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired April 20, 2023 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:01:06]
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone, I'm John Vause at CNN's World Headquarters. We begin this hour breaking news from Yemen. Dozens of people have been killed in a crowd surge during a Ramadan charity event in the capital Sanaa. Some officials have described what happened as a stampede. 
 
It all took place at this school where local merchants were giving out cash donations to mark the coming end to the holy month of Ramadan. There are different accounts of what triggered the crash, which left at least 78 dead, dozens more so badly hurt.
 
Authorities are now ordered an investigation. And the two businessmen who organized the event had been arrested. 
 
Naseh Shaker joins us now from Yemen's capital in Sanaa. Sir, thank you for taking the time to bring us up to date with everything that happened. 
 
We understand this was a distribution event for financial help. You were there at the scene a short time ago. Can you describe what you saw?
 
NASEH SHAKER, JOURNALIST (on camera): Well, actually, I was there nearly four hours ago. The location was surrounded by security forces and relative authorities are conducting investigation to what's happened. 
 
-- from the spokesperson of the incident inside (PH) that actually said that 78 people were dead. 77 of them arrived at the nearby hospital. That is Al-Thawra hospital, which is nearly 20 meters away from the school where people where people gathered to get a cash donation nearly $10.00. 
 
So, the investigation was underway, and 77 others were injured. The health authorities said 30 of them are in critical condition while the rest were already discharged (PH) from the hospital because their injuries were minors. 
 
So, this is a tragic event. This is a tragedy. And I think this is because the parties are not ready to offer concessions that work and stop and all restrictions and blockading them and can be lifted. Because it's hard. 
 
This is a disaster to find people ready to sacrifice their lives for just $10.00 because I'm sure that a lot of people, many of those died are public servants because employees will not pay since 2016. So,people are very hungry. People are very poor. And we have just finished celebrating the exchange of prisoners. Nearly 900 people were released last week, and happiness were across the country. 
 
But this strategy is going to finish or execute that happiness. Mourning is now in Sanaa Yemen, because this is a tragic.
 
VAUSE: Yes, a tragedy, unspeakable tragedy in so many ways. Can you explain or do you know what triggered this crush in the first place? There are some reports that there was possibly gunfire by security personnel that hit an electrical line that, you know, basically triggered this crush because people were afraid. And so, the push began. And then it just got worse. Do we know exactly what the actual cause of the stampede was in the first place?
 
SHAKER: Yes, these were just rumors. And I was one of those who reported this, but it's not confirmed that they were fired bullets. And they were electric shock. 
 
But when I was at the scene, I found that all the neighbors of the school told me that it is only a stampede. And all the cameras showed that there were a stampede at the entrance of the school because this school is used for distributing the charities for food even from the United Nations programs in Yemen. 
 <br>[00:05:16]
 
So, this school is non views (PH) temporarily pile to traders to distribute charity or what we call it Sadaqah or Sadqah in Arabic. 
 
So, this school and Interior Ministry Abdul-Khaleq al-Ajri, blame the traders not to organize with the ministry to bring in more security forces to organize the people because there were very long line of people gathering after sunset until the officials consent to distributing the food arrived to open the door and a lot of people rushed into the school so that only those who are able to enter the school can get this donations.
 
And because there is a very long line, a lot of people try to enter before -- I mean, so that -- so they can get a chance to get the donation. 
 
So, I hope the international community should act now. This tragedy should be a reminder -- a reminder for them to stop the war immediately, because the war stop people are not longer killed by airstrikes or by shoreline of warring parties. Now they are dying, because they are rushing to get through. The International community should rush to end war.
 
VAUSE: This is -- this is the end result of pure economic desperation by so many people there in Yemen, who have suffered so much already over the years. 
 
Naseh, thank you so much for the detail, for the update reporting. We appreciate it a lot. Thank you, sir, for being with us. 
 
Well, in Sudan, a second ceasefire in as many days has collapsed within hours, leaving residents in the capital hunkering down, afraid to leave their homes as clashes between rival military factions were reported late into Wednesday night. 
 
Many have been left for days now without electricity or running water, many are without food as well. The World Health Organization says nearly 300 people have been killed since the fighting broke out Saturday. 
 
Sudan's army says the leader of the rival force has lost control of its troops, saying they're acting like criminal gangs attacking and looting homes and businesses. Thousands and are fleeing the Capitol heading for safer ground at different parts of the country, while the United Nations is demanding an end of attacks on civilians, as well as aid workers. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHANE DUJARRIC, UNITED NATIONS SPOKESPERSON: The continued heavy fighting in Sudan is having a devastating consequences for Sudanese civilians, as well as our staff and other members of the international community who are caught in the crossfire.
 
People in Sudan are running out of food, they're running out of fuel, and they're running out of other vital supplies. Many, many urgently need medical care. 
 
We desperately need that humanitarian pause so the wounded and sick civilians can reach hospitals.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Medical facilities are a major concern. Doctors Without Borders reports half of the hospitals in Khartoum are out of action. Doctors and nurses say it's not safe to go to work. Hospitals are being shelled, or bombed. Details are from CNN's Larry Madowo.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Smoke billows and plummet Khartoum sky as residents woke up to another day of heavy artillery, and bombardment. 
 
In the wake of the escalating conflict, RSF leader Hemedti is according to multiple sources commanding his forces from one of Khartoum's busiest residential areas, prompting the Sudanese army to accuse the RSF of using civilians as human shields. What were once bustling with cars and people since Saturday, Khartoum
 
 streets have been left deserted, with some residents hiding their homes and fearing for their safety. 
 
Just like Hadeel Mohamed who says since the fighting broke out, she has been housebound and thinks forces might break in to steal supplies.
 
HADEEL MOHAMED, SUDAN RESIDENT: Once they run out of food and equipment and what they have and what they need. They're very easily will be able to walk into the houses and say give me what you have because they've got a bigger agenda and a war to win.
 
MADOWO: Other residents took advantage of Tuesday's ceasefire announcement by queuing outside shops. Desperate not to be locked in doors with nothing to eat. 
 
In the wake of a broken ceasefire, Kenya's President William Ruto warned that attacks against civilians are equal to crimes against humanity.
 
WILLIAM RUTO, KENYAN PRESIDENT: Attacks on diplomatic installations and personnel, as well as targeting of hospitals, hotels and other vital public and social spaces are deliberate, systematic, and tantamount to atrocities against humanity.
 
MADOWO: As the fighting rages on in today's long struggle, it leaves residents to question when will there be an end to this war. Or if they will even survive it? 
 
Larry Madowo, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:10:07]
 
VAUSE: New video into CNN shows some of the intense close quarter fighting in the trenches near the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut. Russian forces can be seen attacking an underground shelter with grenades as well as heavy fire. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Laka (PH), are you OK? Laka, are you alive? What are you doing, Laka?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Standby.
 
Orcs jumped into our trenches. Orcs jumped into our trenches. Do you copy?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: First trench, guys, into the trench closest to you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Get up, brother, Orcs.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where are they? Grenade! (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Ukrainian officials say their defensive lines are holding despite Russian attacks in Bakhmut and across the eastern front lines.
 
In the Northwest, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited Ukrainian border with Belarus where fortifications is now being built to prevent a possible attack from Belarusian territory. Their ongoing concerns Russia would use Belarus to help launch a new offensive, but the Belarusian president says he has no plans to send troops into Ukraine. 
 
Ukraine says Russia has launched dozens of airstrikes in the past 24 hours using both missiles and drones. 
 
CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reports (INAUDIBLE) dangerous close to him and his team.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Close to Ukraine's imminent counter offensive in the south east, where Russia has long been brutalizing, pain is commonplace, and the damage often everywhere and indiscriminate. 
 
The quiet is a blessing that rarely lasts. We're warned of a missile strike in coming, leave. We can feel the pressure wave of the blast, just behind our armored car. 
 
Nat, can you hear me? 
 
Natalie Gallon our producer is in our second vehicle just passed the smoke. The driver Igor Mugleche (PH) isn't answering.
 
Nat, can you hear me? 
 
The missile landed right between our cars. 
 
Nat, can you hear me? Nat, can you hear me? 
 
For 10 seconds, we have no idea. 
 
Nat, can you hear me? 
 
NATALIE GALLON, CNN FIELD PRODUCER: Yes, I can hear you.
 
Are you guys OK?
 
WALSH: We're fine. Just leave. Drive out the way we left. 
 
We leave together. For so many, that choice of leaving is something imaginary that happens above ground. The only power and water in town are down here.
 
Life on the ground here has been hard for quite some time, but it will get harder when the counter offensive begins pushing certainly in this direction. If there is space for laughter, it's from this. A screechie Slapstick
 
 Soviet era comedy about a drunken goofball, briefly bending the fixed set grimaces here.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): Today wasn't quiet.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): They bomb, planes bomb. With all arms they hit us, they try everything. It's very noisy day and night. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): At home? If I am with God. With Jesus Christ, who protects us, cares for us, with guardian angels. We endure.
 
WALSH: Guardian angels seem here to flit by in a town where 50 died in the war, and 200 were injured. Safety is just a word here and Rubble is a place.
 
Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Orikhiv, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: New documentary has shed new light on a fleet of Russian ghost ships gathering intelligence in the North Sea. The investigation by four public broadcasters from four Nordic countries rather, say these ships have used underwater surveillance equipment to map key sites. Those include military training areas, oil and gas fields, airports and even wind farms. 
 
The broadcaster's say some of the ships identify themselves as research vessels or fishing trawlers. But the reports say their route suggests they're up to something else entirely. 
 
The Kremlin's chief spokesperson is calling the accusations baseless. 
 
Well, Steve Hall is a CNN national security analyst and former Chief of Russia operations for the CIA. Steve, thanks for being with us. 
 <br>[00:15:04]
 
STEVE HALL, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST (on camera): Great to be here. 
 
VAUSE: So in February, Dutch military intelligence reported a Russian ship was detected near an offshore wind farm and then was escorted out of the North Sea by the Dutch coast guard with officials later warning, Russia is secretly chatting this infrastructure and is undertaking activities which indicate preparations for disruption and sabotage. 
 
And a few months before that, H I Sutton a defense analysts tweeted this. If you live on the east coast of Scotland and you look out your window today, you might see the Russian spy ship Admiral Vladimirskiy heading south.
 
And it's been known for a while that Russian ships often described as research vessels or fishing trawlers have been mapping the location of you know, critical maritime infrastructure.
 
It seems this new information, which is out public is about the extent of that spying operation, in particular, the number of Russian ships involved. So, what more do we know at this point?
 
HALL: Well, you know, what we -- what we know at this point, I think is sort of the reinforcement or simply an escalation of what really has been going on for decades. 
 
The Russians, certainly since Vladimir Putin took over but probably before then, as well, have always been very active and very active in the Baltic region, especially in the -- in the Baltic maritime situation, because it's key to how they view their defensive posture. 
 
And now that NATO has enlarged, notably Finland, which has increased the land border, we can't forget it, because a lot of people spend a lot of time looking at land maps, there is a huge ocean map, of course, that the Russians have to be concerned about, as do NATO allies, new or old because of the huge coastlines that they have. 
 
So, this is actually something that's been going on for a long time. But the new pieces now we're seeing exactly how large this new effort is to collect that sort of intelligence that the Russians believe that they need because of the threat that they feel from NATO.
 
VAUSE: It's also cutting in the background of the war in Ukraine. So, how does that play into this? Can we expect some kind of Russian attack on these maritime assets?
 
HALL: What this is, is preparation, because they understand that they might have to -- there might be a time when they have to either fight to protect themselves or push back or at least that's what they believe. 
 
There's also a propaganda angle to this John, and that is that the Russians want to say, well, what did you expect, of course, if NATO is going to act recklessly and threaten Russia, you know, we have to protect our interests. 
 
Of course, NATO is a defensive alliance and has no intention of doing anything against Russia, unless Russia attacks first, but they have to be prepared the Russians do for any eventuality that they think -- they think could happen.
 
VAUSE: This joint investigation by public broadcasters from four Nordic countries track that -- the aforementioned vessel the Admiral Vladimirskiy, which was approached by journalists from these four broadcasters. This is what happened in that instance, here it is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're filming everything on the ship, we're filming antennas. As we've been told by the source, I can see crew members walking around on the deck. I think they're watching us. There's two men staring at us. Wow, they're looking at us, this is really a strange situation. Almost a tense situation they're looking at us. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Even though this ship had disabled it's located beacon. It appears that Vladimirskiy had been, you know, approaching wind farms. And as it did, it slowed down, it loited in the area. 
 
And according to the Norwegian Broadcasting Company, that all these Russian vessels have been sailing past military training areas, important oil and gas fields, small airports, deep-water quays and strategically important hubs for the Norwegian armed forces. 
 
So, what intelligence are they actually been able to get here? How would that intelligence be used by Russia? And how vulnerable are these sites?
 
HALL: So, this is a -- this is an intelligence Bonanza, I think for Russia is the best way to say it. The Russians are looking at potential targets that they would consider attacking, perhaps as part of their philosophy of not necessarily direct warfare, but hybrid warfare. 
 
So, you know, we've seen strange things happen beneath the surface of the Baltics, you know, recently where there was the -- there was the pipeline that somehow was blown up, we still don't have at least publicly don't know understand exactly how that happened. 
 
But the Russians see great value in targets such as gas pipelines, some of these huge communication cables that go across the Atlantic, which carry critical information not just for the functioning of our society, but for the functioning of the military as well. 
 
The wind farms, people might be saying, well, what about a wind farm, but when you think about it, that's essentially infrastructure and its energy infrastructure that we're talking about, the Russians are going to be very interested to know how they can make life difficult for the West if they go after some of these targets. 
 
So, all of that is valuable and viable collection information that the Russians really need if they want to conduct some sort of hybrid warfare that they can later deny so that they don't feel the full wrath of NATO or the West in the military fashion against them. There's a lot there for them that they're that they want to collect and are interested in.
 
VAUSE: These ghost ships they call them, which are plugging around there with they're located beacons on for, you know, essentially everyone to see, which is quite interesting in all this. Steve, thank you for being with us, really appreciate it.
 <br>[00:20:05]
 
HALL: Sure, my pleasure.
 
VAUSE: And when we come back, the world of K-pop in mourning, after the sudden death of South Korean singer Moonbin, just 25 years old, live to Seoul for the very latest in a moment. Also, French President Emmanuel Macron heads out on a listening tour
 
 gets an earful over his pension reforms. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: K-pop singer Moonbin of the boy band Astro has died at the age of 25. His record label confirmed the news after reports he was found dead at his home in Seoul. CNN's Paula Hancocks live for us now from Seoul with the very latest. What else do we know?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Well, John, at this point, we've spoken to the police who confirmed that around 8:10 p.m. on Wednesday evening, his manager went to his Seoul home and found him deceased. They are asking people not to speculate on the cause of death at this point, but what we do know is Moonbin was a child actor. He was part of a well-established K-pop group Astro, which he debuted with in 2016. 
 
Now the music label itself, Fantagio has issued a statement saying that they are shocked, they're heartbroken and deeply mourning saying that Moonbin suddenly left us and became a star in the sky. 
 
Now, he also was part of a subgroup with one of his band members within Astro they had been touring just recently in different parts of Asia. They had an upcoming concert in Macau on Saturday and other concerts next month. 
 
And he was also part of a K-pop family, if you like, a sister, is also part of a band at Moon Sua. He's part of the girl group Billie and unsurprisingly, that music label has said that all their upcoming activities for this week have been canceled. 
 
Now, there have been messages of condolences posted on social media, fans expressing their shock, and they're upset at what has happened. And certainly, there will be many more comments to come, John.
 
VAUSE: Paula, thank you. Paula Hancocks there in Seoul.
 
Well, during a televised address Monday, the French president said he had heard the anger on the streets over the pension reform plans. And on Wednesday, he heard the anger firsthand during his first public appearance since he signed the bill into law which raises the retirement age from 62 to 64.
 
Some workers banged on pots and pans, they demanded he resigned, and for a brief time where the factory where he made this appearance, the power went out. Others shook his hand as he stood firm on the need for the bill.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
EMMANUEL MACRON, FRENCH PRESIDENT (through translator): This is the time we're living in. And that should not prevent us from moving forward. We have a lot of challenges. It is not the pots and pans that will move France forward.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[00:25:03]
 
VAUSE: Demonstrations have taken place over France for the last three months to protest the reform. Macron says it's time to focus on other issues, such as working conditions and education and possibly some austerity measures, which is still to come.
 
Ahead here on CNN, damned if they do, damned if they don't. The United Nations struggling with how to help the people of Afghanistan when they're stuck living under the draconian rules of the Taliban. We'll explain in a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: The United Nations is facing a quandary how to deal with the Taliban in Afghanistan while also dealing with its desire for gender equality and women's rights. 
 
This comes after Afghan women were recently banned by the Taliban from working with the United Nations and other humanitarian groups, the latest in a string of Taliban edicts restricting the role of women in Taliban society. 
 
Joining me now is Fawzia Koofi, former deputy speaker of Afghanistan's Parliament. Thank you for taking the time to be with us.
 
FAWZIA KOOFI, AFGHAN POLITICIAN AND WOMEN'S RIGHTS ACTIVIST (on camera): Thank you for having me.
 
VAUSE: How things have changed there in Afghanistan? Now, here's a headline from Tuesday, U.N. ready for heartbreaking decision to pull out of Afghanistan. The reporter goes on to say operations could be withdrawn by next month. 
 
But then by Wednesday, we had a statement from the United Nations UNDP reaffirms its long standing commitment to stay and deliver for the people of Afghanistan. 
 
Yet, this seems to be a situation for the U.N. Damned if they do, damned if they don't. But if they do pull out, if they do have to make that decision, which seems unlikely. But what would be the impact on the people of Afghanistan, if that should happen?
 
KOOFI: The U.N. is in a very, very difficult position I think from you know, when the ban happened on the 26th of December on woman working with humanitarian organizations, we knew the next would be the U.N. national female staff. We knew that -- we now know the next might be the U.N. International female staff. 
 
So, I think it's we're not only talking about few hundred female staff of the U.N., we're talking about hundreds of thousands of women who lost their jobs as the Taliban resumed than what we had expected the U.N. to have a firm position towards all of this and to like separate lines, because I think if the U.N. is like putting the setting the bar by law, it is moving towards a you know, kind of dangerous precedence, which could raise many questions about the U.N. existence itself and how much the U.N. is impactful in circumstances where like Afghanistan, based on the U.N. Charter.
 
VAUSE: The part of the U.N. charter also talks about you know, helping those in need while also talking about guaranteeing women's rights, gender equality. So, there is a conflict here. 
 <br>[00:30:09]
 
So it sounds to me as if you want the U.N. to take a stand. But then, there's the other side of that stand, is that the people of Afghanistan are the ones, not the Taliban, but the very people of Afghanistan, who need to help the most. They will be the ones who suffer. So how do you square that circle? 
 
KOOFI: Absolutely. The people of Afghanistan unfortunately are the main victim of all of this. The Taliban have taken people of Afghanistan as the hostage. And they have a good division of labor. They want the international community to feed the people of Afghanistan. And they, as people who are holding power, feel zero accountability towards fulfilling their job, although they claim that they have increased domestic revenue.
 
So the question I have is, you know, where is the money going? If they have really increased the domestic revenue? 
 
And when it comes to the U.N., I think I believe, if they had really a firm position, and if they really had set the bar high and put their principles for not negotiation from day one, the Taliban would have also known that, you know, they are actually not dealing with the situation where the U.N. could always be flexible on their principles.
 
And they know they were clear, much more clear. But now I think, based on Taliban's experience of negotiating with the Americans before, during their talks in Doha, they know that they can get anything they ask. And that's why they are using women of Afghanistan as a bargaining chip. 
 
And unfortunately, there is a history of weaponizing women's rights for a bargaining chip, and that's what Taliban are doing. 
 
VAUSE: I want you to listen to the U.N. development program's representative in Afghanistan. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDALLAH AL DARDARI, UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM: The engagement continues. We speak to them every day, and we present the numbers that we are presenting to them, showing how detrimental the absence of women in public life, education and work is to the future of the Afghan economy. 
 
But at the moment, we don't see any positive response. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) VAUSE: And by "them," he's obviously talking about the Taliban government, which gets back to my other point. Is there any point here in using logic, in using reason to try and convince the Taliban that, you know, it is a good thing for women to be working, that their policy is wrong, that this will have such a detrimental impact on the country, detrimental impact on so many people? 
 
Because at the end of the day, the Taliban just don't care. 
 
KOOFI: Well, I believe that, if the U.N. really have a firm position and the Security Council members, including the countries in the region, do not look at their engagement with Taliban only as a matter of security or financial mutual interest, but rather as a matter of human rights and women's rights -- and women's rights at the end of the day is a matter of security. That is Security Council resolution 1325. Emphasizes on the role of women in conflict resolution and inclusion in the peace process. 
 
So if they -- the countries who are members of Security Council, who are the immediate neighbors of Afghanistan, and who are the far neighbors of Afghanistan, and who continue to engage and send contradictory messages to Taliban and make women of Afghanistan issue again once again, a matter of, you know -- as a weapon.
 
If they really unite at the Security Council, all the member states, and give a clear message to Taliban that either they allow the citizens of Afghanistan to choose how they want to be governed, including the women, or there will be no engagement whatsoever with Taliban. I think the Taliban will take the matter serious. 
 
VAUSE: It does seem that slowly, bit by bit, women are being erased from the public sphere in Afghanistan, and the world seems completely OK with it right now. And it's not -- that should not be the case. 
 
But Fawzia Koofi, thank you so much for being with us. We really appreciate your time. 
 
The U.N. and other groups will gather in Doha next month to try to form a united -- a unified approach, I should say, in how to deal with the Taliban and its weird obsession with removing women from public life. 
 
Many aid groups and international donors have cut funding to the Taliban over the rollback of women's rights. That includes the United States.
 
But in testimony before the House Oversight Committee Wednesday, the inspector general for Afghanistan admitted he has no idea if billions of dollars in aid earmarked for the Afghan people while bypassing the Taliban government, is reaching those most in need. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN SOPKO, U.S. SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION: Unfortunately, as I sit here today. I cannot assure this committee or the American taxpayer we are not currently funding the Taliban. 
 
I haven't seen a starving Taliban fighter on TV. They all seem to be fat, dumb and happy. I see a lot of starving Afghan children on TV. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Fat, dumb and happy. 
 
There was also a lot of finger pointing among Republicans and Democrats over which party was to blame for the failures of America's longest war. 
 <br>[00:35:03]
 
But as the inspector general put it, quote, "Four administrations made many mistakes" over that 20-year period. 
 
Still to come, India on track to have the world's largest population sometime this year. Live in New Delhi with what that means for an already overcrowded nation with few job opportunities. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: India's population set to pass China's by the middle of this year. U.N. data indicates both nations will have more than 1.4 billion people, India edging China slightly by close to three million. 
 
And that comes with the challenge of finding enough jobs for a booming population. For more, I'm joined by CNN's Vedika Sud, live in New Delhi. 
 
To get the top job, the top title, you've got to find the jobs, as well, huh?
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, John. But let me just tell our viewers that, according to the United Nations, India and China together will account for more than a third of the estimated global population in the months to come. Staggering facts there. 
 
But contrary to public belief, John, it's also important for our viewers to know that the population growth, both in China, as well as an India, has been on the decline. But here's where the contrast, and a stark contrast, lies. 
 
You have the labor force in China shrinking when compared to India that has more than 60 percent of its population under the age of 30. And we spoke to some of the young Indians here in Delhi and in neighboring states about their aspirations and their dreams, while India will very soon be getting that undesirable global title of being the most populous country in the world. Here's a report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SUD (voice-over): In a village outside New Delhi, a doting mother attends to her little girl. Mahi (ph) is just two days old. Her cries mark a symbolic moment. India is expected to surpass China as the world's most populous country. 
 
Mahi's (ph) father, Vizpaul Singh (ph), and mother Lakshmi are school dropouts. The family's had little income and many children to feed. 
 
Singh, a farmer, started working with his father in their fields at a young age. He says he'll do whatever it takes to help Mahi (ph) achieve her dreams, he said. 
 
"Even if I have to sell my field to educate her, I will. One of the biggest challenges she'll have to face is the country's growing population. There's stiff competition," Singh tells me. 
 
India's birth rate has slowed, but the country is still quickly adding to its 1.4 billion-strong population.
 
SUD: According to UNICEF, more than 67,300 babies are born in India every day. That's 1/6 of the world's birth counts daily. 
 
SUD (voice-over): Already, more than half of all Indians are under the age of 30. That means a huge potential to grow the national economy. 
 <br>[00:40:07]
 
But education and investment need to keep up if there are going to be jobs for a new generation. 
 
KAUSHIK BASU, FORMER WORLD BANK CHIEF ECONOMIST: I really feel it's a 10-year opportunity. Do it right, and this is a dividend. Do it wrong, and this is going to be extremely worrying for the Indian economy and India's youngsters. 
 
SUD (voice-over): Twenty-eight-year-old Sunil Kumar (ph) has a postgraduate degree but doesn't hold a steady job. 
 
For years now, he's been sweeping the floors of a school in his village in Haryana state and doubling up as a tutor for young students. 
 
Despite his education, Kumar (ph) barely makes enough to support his ailing father and the rest of his family.
 
Sunil (ph) says it angers him that he doesn't have a steady job, despite his educational qualifications. 
 
Across India, the most highly-sought-after jobs are more competitive than ever before. Pursuing their dreams, tens of thousands of students from small towns move to big cities to be coached for the coveted civil services exam. 
 
Some, like Serra Nutaval (ph) have been trying to crack the exam for four years now. 
 
Nutaval (ph) says his younger brother is sponsoring his education. 
 
"They could have bought three to four cars with the money they've spent on me," he says. Over one million people sit for the entrance test each year. Less than
 
 1 percent make the cut. 
 
BASU: The population is growing, and the working age population is growing. If that category of people do not find enough employment, then what was meant to be an opportunity -- the bulge in that demographic dividend, so-called -- could become a huge challenge and problem for India. 
 
SUD (voice-over): India's new global title will mean little if it doesn't come with fresh opportunity. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SUD (ON CAMERA): And that's the liability that experts warn of, John, that if policymakers don't create enough job opportunities, this could be a huge challenge for India in the coming months and years -- John.
 
VAUSE: Absolutely, Vedika. Thank you. Vedika Sud there, live for us in New Delhi. 
 
Well, in some parts of the world, you may want to turn your eyes to the sky for a solar eclipse. These are pictures a short time ago from experts in Australia. The small town in western Australia was the best spot to view the rare hybrid eclipse. 
 
According to NASA, the next one will take place in 2031.
 
I'm John Vause, back at the top of the hour with more CNN NEWSROOM, but first, WORLD SPORT starts after a short break. See back here in 17 minutes. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:26]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[00:57:32]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)