Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: U.S. President Biden Makes Unannounced Visit To Kyiv; Biden Announces Half-Billion Dollars In Assistance To Ukraine On Surprise Trip. Aired 5:30-6a ET

Aired February 20, 2023 - 05:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:30:00]
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR, "CNN THIS MORNING":  And what we are told from the pool reports is he's also only traveling with really only a handful of staffers with them, and they only list three names on here. I'm told there's a few more than that that are actually on the ground with him. But it does speak to the level of typically the presence that is with President Biden is several of his staffers -- many of them -- sometimes a dozen of them travel with him on these visits. And this just speaks to how closely held they kept it. 
 
Obviously, a heavy emphasis on security as Clarissa was noting earlier, but not as many staffers are actually with President Biden.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR:  Just getting -- sorry to interrupt. We're just getting these pictures of the two presidents meetings. Let's see what we can hear.
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much for coming, Mr. President. It's a huge moment of support for Ukraine. And what can I say? I really appreciate President Biden and the American society have been from the very beginning of this tragedy, from the very beginning of this full-scale war being together with us, hopeful support from the White House to Ukraine.
 
And thank you for your leadership. Thanks (INAUDIBLE) thanks Congress. I think that is a historical moment for our -- for our country and very important to be able to (INAUDIBLE) on the battlefield.
 
But I think almost it will speak about people -- of Ukrainians, about Americans -- I think that is huge and so difficult periods for societies and what we have to do to stop the war. To have success in this war. To make Ukraine more stronger and help with this year.
 
You're very welcome, Mr. President. Thank you so much.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Well, thank you for having me. 
 
It's presumptuous of me to say this but I feel it is important that the President of the United States be here on the day the attack began. Because as the president, remember I was warning the world that he was going to attack -- I was certain of it -- and I thought it was critical that greetings and goodwill from the members of Congress. You made a very good impression as you know when you spoke there last. And for all the disagreement we have in our Congress on some issues that there is significant agreement on support for Ukraine.
 
And this is so much larger than just Ukraine. It's about freedom and democracy in Europe. It's about freedom and democracy writ large. And for all the American people I know that so many have kept the Ukrainian people, particularly the women and children, in their prayers seeing what's happened. They can't fathom the idea of a shelling -- the shelling from orphanages to schools to the like. It's barbaric. 
 
And I'm here to show our unwavering support for the nation's independence, your sovereignty, and the territorial integrity. And today I hope we're going to have a chance to discuss how the United States and our allies who I keep in constant contact with, and our partners can most effectively support you and your cause, Mr. President. And I look forward to discussing all of this and addressing the world with you afterwards. 
 
Again, the admiration for the people of Ukraine -- ordinary, hardworking citizens were never trained to be military. The way they've stepped up is beyond growth and the whole world -- the whole world.
 
ZELENSKYY:  Thank you very much.
 
REPORTER:  Mr. President, Mr. President?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We're walking out. We're walking out. Press, we're walking out. We're walking out.
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR:  Let's go back to you, Kaitlan Collins, who is standing by for us in Warsaw. Kaitlan, listening to that if you could hear, do you detect any alteration or strengthening of President Biden's position when it comes to Ukraine and his support of Zelenskyy?
 
COLLINS:  Well, you heard him say he thought it was important to be here on the anniversary and I think that is really going to be one of the biggest takeaways of this visit. We'll talk about the aid and what Zelenskyy wants, what Ukraine is not getting obviously but it's really as simple --
 
NOBILO:  Kaitlan, so sorry. We're just going to have to return because President Biden is about to speak. 
 <br>[05:35:00]
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator):  Mr. President and the team of President Biden, I'm very happy to welcome you in Ukraine. It is a great honor for me and for all of us. We have just had negotiations with the President of the United States and the visiting 40 minutes (PH), and then we had a wide discussion with the involvement of our teams. These conversations bring us closer to the victory and we hope that
 
 this year -- that 2023 will become a year of victory in this unprovoked and criminal Russia's war against Ukraine and against the whole world and democratic world has to end with liberating the whole of Ukraine's territory from Russia's occupation and the sole guarantees of the long-term security for our country as well as Europe and the whole world. 
 
Right now in Ukraine, the destiny of the national -- international order based on international order is decided and we, together with President Biden and our allies and partners, have to continue doing everything possible so that the democratic world would win in this historic fight. The Ukrainians remember the focus, the attention, and the attitude of President Biden and the United States to every single Ukrainian. 
 
We remain constantly in communication with the President of the United States over the course of this large-scale war and this is the first visit over 15 years and this is really the most important visit for the whole history of the Ukraine-U.S. relationship. This is the visit in this most difficult period for Ukraine when Ukraine is fighting for own liberty -- for the liberties of the world.
 
And this underlines the results that we have already achieved and what sort of historic achievements we might get all together with the whole world, with the United States, with Europe. And today, our negotiations were very fruitful. They were very important and crucial. 
 
And has become traditional in relationship between our counties, I want to extend words of gratitude personally to Mr. President Biden and to his team, to the Congress, to all the U.S. people. And I think you for this level of Ukraine-U.S. cooperation. 
 
And this week will be marking one year of our fight against Russia's aggression, so it's very symbolic that we solidify our resilience through two meetings with the president of Ukraine -- my visit in December and the visit of the Mr. President of the United States to Kyiv today. The results of this visit will surely be seen and will surely have a reflection on the battlefield in liberating our territories. 
 
The decision of the United States on Abrams tanks for Ukraine has already presented a foundation for establishing a tank coalition and it's of historic importance in many other aspects, and more specifically in air defense, in Patriots for the defense of our cities. Now this is a very fundamental and crucial reinforcement of our capacities. 
 
We've also talked about long-range weapons and the weapons that may still be supplied to Ukraine even though it wasn't supplied before. I know, Mr. President, that there will be a very significant package of security support to Ukraine and currently it will serve as a clear signal that Russia's attempts will have no chance and that we will together defend our cities and citizens from Russia's tour will have more impetus towards our victory. And today we have yet again underlined that we have our common vision with regards to the perspectives of this war. We have coordinated the pressure on the terrorist state. We are working hard on the reinforcement of sanctions both bilaterally and in the form of G7, which is very important. 
 
We have common vision on the contents of many aspects of our space forward because it's security elements as well as the tasks to restore the U.N. charter to its full capacity and to defend the international rule-based order that is common. A joint task for all the countries that are interested in the international security.
 <br>[05:40:12]
 
The rebuilding and the recovery of justice is also very important for all those who was affected by the Russian terror -- by the Russian war. And the aggressor has to take responsibility for their aggression and to reimburse the damages.
 
And thanks to the President of the United States for supporting our work on restoring the justice -- more specifically, in the work of our -- all of our institutions in that area. And we believe there's no alternatives to the establishment of the special tribunal. This is the position of the United -- of Ukraine and we shall support this position. 
 
And I would really like the United States to be engaged in the implantation of our peace formula because its implementation would mean a reinforcement of global stability and the predictability of international relations. And we have some achievements in this area.
 
Already this week in New York, together with the United States of America, and over 60 other countries will be submitting for the consideration of the U.N. General Assembly of the draft resolution on supporting peace in Ukraine. And on the eve of the 24th of February, we believe that the approval of this resolution will be very significant evidence to the fact that the terror state would never break civil unrest in this country. 
 
And I think -- we are -- we are also opening a special (INAUDIBLE) dedicated to the President Biden. The first call on the night of the 24th of February took place with the United States. And since that time we had conversations with very significant attention to our fight -- to the protection of Ukraine's democracy. Besides the personal contribution in President Biden and the liberty and democracy in the world. This will be remembered eternally.
 
And Ukraine is grateful to you Mr. President and to all the U.S. citizens. To all those who cherish freedom just as we cherish them. Glory to our warriors, glory to our allies, and glory to Ukraine.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The President of the United States of America.
 
BIDEN:  Well, thank you very much, Mr. President.
 
You know, it was -- it was one year ago this week that we spoke on the telephone, Mr. President, and it was very late at night in Washington and very early in the morning here in Kyiv. Russian plans were in the air and tanks were rolling across your border. You told me that you could hear explosions in the background -- I'll never forget that -- and the world was about to change. 
 
I remember vividly because I asked you -- I asked you next -- I asked you what is there, Mr. President? What can I do for you? How can I be of help?
 
And I don't know whether you remember what you said to me but you said, and I quote, "Gather the leaders of the world and ask them to support Ukraine. Gather the leaders of the world and ask them to support Ukraine." And you said that you didn't know when we'd be able to speak again. 
 
On that dark night one year ago the world was literally, at the time, bracing for the fall of Kyiv. It seems like a lot longer ago than a year but think back to that year. Perhaps even the end of Ukraine. 
 
You know, one year later, Kyiv stands and Ukraine stands. Democracy stands. The Americans stand with you and the world stands with you. Kyiv has captured a part of my heart, I must say. 
 
I've come here six times as vice president, once as president, and in 2009 as vice president when I first came here. And back in 2014, I came three times in the aftermath of the Revolution of Dignity. And I again came in 2015 to address the Rada about the work of building a strong democracy. And I came in 2017 just before I left office as vice president.
 <br>[05:45:10]
 
I knew I'd be back, but I wanted to be sure. Even though the elections were over and Barack and I were out of office, I decided to make one more trip before the next president was sworn in to Kyiv. 
 
So, President Zelenskyy you deeply honor me here in Kyiv with you today to meet with your military, your intelligence folks, your diplomatic teams. Community leaders who have stepped up and helped their country in their hour of need. 
 
It's astounding who stood up -- everybody, everybody. Women, young children tried to do something -- just trying to do something. Pulling people out of apartments that are being shelled and literally what I think is war crimes. It's astounding and the whole world -- the whole world sees it and looks at it.
 
This is the largest land war in Europe in three-quarters of a century and you're succeeding against all and every expectation except your own. We have every confidence that you're going to continue to prevail.
 
You know, from the moment I first received your intelligence report in the fall, about a year ago, we were focused on determining how do we rally the rest of the world. How do I help you with the promise you asked me to make to rally the world? Well, how do you succeed? How do you ever get a world to respond to a
 
 prosperous economy, a confident democracy, a secure and independent state when united Americans of all political backgrounds decided that they would step up? The American people know it matters. Unchecked aggression is a threat to all of us. 
 
We built a coalition of nations from the Atlantic to the Pacific -- NATO and the Atlantic, Japan in the Pacific. I mean, across the -- across the world. A number of nations -- over 50 -- helped Ukraine defend itself with unprecedented military, economic, and humanitarian support. 
 
We've united the leading economies of the world to impose unprecedented costs that are squeezing Russia's economic lifelines. Together we've committed nearly 700 tanks and thousands of armored vehicles, 1,000 artillery systems. More than two million rounds of artillery ammunition. More than 50 advanced launch rocket systems, antiship and air defense systems, all to defend Ukraine. 
 
And that doesn't count the other half a billion dollars we're going to be -- we're announcing with you today and tomorrow that's going to be coming your way. And that's just the United States in this piece.
 
And just today that announcement includes artillery ammunition for HIMARS and Howitzers, more javelins, anti-armor systems, air surveillance radars that will protect Ukrainian people from air bombardments. 
 
Later this week we will announce additional sanctions against elites and companies that are trying to evade sanctions and backfill Russia's war machine. And thanks to bipartisan support in Congress this week we are delivering billions in direct budgetary support -- billions in direct budgetary support, which the government can put to use immediately and help provide for basic services of citizens. 
 
The cost that Ukraine has had to bear has been extraordinarily high and the sacrifices have been far too great. They've been met but they've been far too great. We mourn alongside the families of those who have been lost to the brutal and unjust war. We know that there will be very difficult days and weeks, and years ahead. 
 <br>[05:50:00]
 
But Russia's aim was to wipe Ukraine off the map. Putin's war of conquest is failing. Russia's military has lost half its territory it once occupied. Young, talented Russians are fleeing by the tens of thousands, not wanting to come back to Russia. Not just fleeing from the military but fleeing from Russia itself because they see no future in their country. Russia's economy is now a backwater, isolated and it is struggling. 
 
Putin thought Ukraine was weak and the West was divided. As you know, Mr. President, I said to you in the beginning he's counting on us not sticking together. He was counting on the inability to keep NATO united. He was counting on us not to be able to bring in others on the side of Ukraine. He thought he could outlast us. I don't think he's thinking that right
 
 now. God knows what he's thinking but I don't think he's thinking that. But he's just been plain wrong, plain wrong. 
 
And one year later the evidence is right here in this room. We stand here together. Mr. President, I am delighted to be able to repay your visit to our country. 
 
In Washington, not long ago, you told us -- you told the Congress, quote, "We have no fear nor should anyone in the world have it" -- end of quote. You and all Ukrainians, Mr. President, remind the world every single day what the meaning of the word courage is. From all sectors of your economy, all walks of life it's astounding.
 
You remind us that freedom is priceless. It's worth fighting for as long as it takes and that's how long we're going to be with you, Mr. President -- for as long as it takes. 
 
ZELENSKYY:  We'll do it.
 
BIDEN:  Thank you.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
NOBILO:  And we're watching President Biden and President Zelenskyy leave the presidential palace just moments ago. 
 
Let's bring in Phil Mattingly. He's in Warsaw for us. Phil, I suppose what the world and what Ukraine is listening for in those remarks is whether or not this symbolic gesture to visit Ukraine near this anniversary of the war is going to be backed up with the military muscle required for Ukraine to achieve victory. 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, I think that's a critical part. And I think as much as the symbolism is important here, as much letting the world know that the U.S. -- their ability is not just words, it's actions as well. 
 
So, too, was the meeting that President Zelenskyy referenced -- the bilateral sit-down between both presidents and their top advisors where President Zelenskyy said they talked about the kinds of long- range weapons that perhaps the U.S. has not been willing to send up to this point. Now that doesn't mean that when it comes to weapons systems like ATACMS or elements like that the Ukrainians have been persistently asking for and have been rejected up to this point-- that this visit signals that there's going to be a dramatic shift in U.S. posture. 
 
But it does underscore that this was a working meeting as well, just as it was when President Zelenskyy made his surprise visit to Washington back in December. 
 
But it also underscores that there has been just a rapid evolution over the course of the last year when it comes to the type of military assistance that the U.S. has been willing to provide. At one point, tanks were off the table. Patriot missile systems were off the table. NASAMS were off the table. Bianca, as you know well, those are now not only on the table, they have, for the most part, been delivered or training is underway to start utilizing those systems. 
 
So that progression is important and I think this visit underscores that progression is likely to continue. When and what form is an open question. But as you noted, the president did announce another half- billion dollars in security and aid assistance that will be coming. Other allies are expected to do the same over the course of the next couple of days.
 
But as much as we talk about the nuts and bolts -- the details here, which are obviously critical -- critically important on the battlefield and for the Ukrainian people that are -- continue to suffer through this winter, the broad message -- the broad symbolism here I think is just as important when you talk to White House officials. The message that they wanted to send about the fact that no one is going anywhere. The durability of not just the U.S. support but the coalition support.
 <br>[05:55:00]
 
And I think also the president's ability to step back, referencing that phone call that he had the night the invasion began, and just how far they have come in the course of a year when the expectation was Kyiv may not be standing within days of that call, Bianca.
 
FOSTER:  Very poignant to hear that, wasn't it? Thank you.
 
And Nic, just a thought from you on this deadline it feels like Zelenskyy is setting for the end of the war. 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Yes, hope to win this year, he said. And then he went on to say in the formal press conference that by the end of 2023. And actually, that repeats the message he said on Friday at the Munich Security Conference. "I hope to be with you next year. The war will be over."
 
There's political imperative from all the leaders in that country that support Ukraine. There's a military imperative for Ukraine to win this and draw it to a close quickly. And I think we're seeing vestiges of that and the message is very clear. We can win it this year. Give us what we need to do it. 
 
And very clearly from what I'm hearing, Crimea is on the agenda for the Ukrainians to take and that discussion of longer-range missiles fits neatly into that.
 
FOSTER:  We'll be following the rest of the visit as it continues through Europe. 
 
Thank you for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster.
 
NOBILO:  And I'm Bianca Nobilo. "CNN THIS MORNING" starts with the same story right after this break.
 
(COMMERCIAL) [06:00:00]