Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Five Killed, Including An Eight-Year-Old, In Texas Mass Shooting; Ukraine: Russian Strikes Damage 10 Apartment Units; Thousands Scramble To Get Out Of Sudan Amid Renewed Fighting; Woman Accusing Trump Of Battery And Defamation Faces Tough Questioning; Police Department Use AI To Analyze Officers' Bodycam Video; 13-Year- Old Grabs The Wheel, Stops Speeding School Bus. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired April 29, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:59:57]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: The suspect fled the scene before police arrived, leading to today's desperate manhunt.
 
CNN's Ryan Young is following the story for us. So, give us an idea. I mean a sequence of events. It's just horrible the outcome.
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Not only is horrible, but when you think about how horrific the shooting was, and where they found some of these bodies, it just stands out to you another scene of gun violence across America.
 
Right now, this manhunt is continuing. It all started with a 911 call, because a man was in his yard, shooting a gun.
 
The neighbors went next door, and said, hey, please, can you stop shooting the gun? We have a young child who's trying to go to sleep.
 
At some point, that man, according to the sheriff's department, turned around went inside the home. They actually have ring camera video of him entering and exiting the home. And he started shooting people in this home.
 
Of course, he talked about the ages are from 8 to 40. So, you have five victims here. Two of the women were actually on top of the children, trying to protect them, covered in blood.
 
Listen to the sheriff about this active manhunt.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GREG CAPERS, SHERIFF, SAN JACINTO CUNTY, TEXAS: Two of the juveniles were found up underneath two of the deceased women that were in the bedroom. That, in my opinion, they were actually trying to take care of them babies and keep them babies alive.
 
We know him by name, date of birth. We got his Mexican consulate card. Plus, there was a ring doorbell on the victim's house. We actually captured him coming up to the front door with the weapon.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOUNG: Yes, Fred. As you know, normally, if we had a manhunt like this, the sheriff's department would share the picture of the person they were looking for. We put it out there. They feel like they believe he's in a wooded area and they haven't contained. So, they believe they'll be able to find him at some point, but they have his name, they've talked to his wife.
 
But then, you still have to ask all these questions in terms of why did he go next door, do this execution-style shooting at this home.
 
So many people scratching their heads trying to figure out exactly how this happened and why it happened. But that act of manhunt still going on.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, so sad. Multiple generations now impacted. 
 
YOUNG: Absolutely.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Thank you so much, Ryan Young.
 
YOUNG: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Now, to Ukraine, where the search for survivors has ended after a Russian missile attack hit an apartment building in the central town of Uman.
 
The attack killed at least 25 people, including six children. It's believed to be the deadliest strike on civilians since January.
 
And it damaged more than 10 apartment units and other civilian targets.
 
Military commanders say Ukraine's forces were able to shoot down 21 of 23 missiles fired in the attack.
 
Here is CNN's Nic Robertson.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (on camera): Fred, this is the last of the recovery. We're looking at here that digging out the rubble. If you look up the building there, you can see how much has been cleaned out.
 
The firefighters have been working all through the day. This has been a mission of over more than 30 hours to try to recover. Everyone who was lost in this apartment building.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): Residents asleep as a Russian missile ripped through their apartments.
 
Rescuers in this small central Ukrainian city, Uman, on the scene fast.
 
Serhyi was one of the first. SERHYI ALEKSEEV, UMAN RESIDENT (through translator): There were terrible screams of children. The explosion was very powerful. The houses started to shake in a nearby areas. The first one we pulled out was a living woman, who was put in the ambulance but she died in hospital.
 
ROBERTSON: The death toll climbing through the day.
 
This lady telling us she heard the missile, put her kids in the bathtub and pillows over their heads, and hope they'd live. Fighting back tears, she said, so many children live here.
 
A gaping concrete and rubble wound where those innocent lives shattered. Families and friends desperately awaiting news of loved ones.
 
This lady telling us her friend on the eighth floor survived. But the friend's two daughters, one 13 years old and the other, just 7, are still missing.
 
A firefighter takes us up to see those top floors. Onto the roof, line floors above the recovery teams.
 
You can see how the building has literally collapsed down here. There should be building right out here. And the floors pancaked down with some roof tipping over down there.
 
From here the damage even more devastating than below. More than half the buildings 46 apartments destroyed.
 
So, the firefighters will come up here, and as they've been doing all day, in this dangerous mission here, literally putting themselves in danger to try to recover, to clear out the site, to bring solace.
 <br>[12:04:57]
 
Ukrainian officials believe all this devastation caused by a single Russian Kh-101 stealth cruise missile. It is the single deadliest strike on civilians since January.
 
109 people registered living here as night fell, many of them still unaccounted for.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): So, the last few hours now, the fire service have told us they've stopped their recovery mission. They believe they've found everyone that they can find, the death toll now, 25. Six of them children.
 
The last two people to be added to the death toll, they actually haven't been able to find their bodies, of course, that is terribly traumatic news for all those waiting here to find out about their loved ones.
 
Traumatic because the reality is the ferocity of the impact and the fire has meant that the job for the firefighters here. It's been tough. But it's been just impossible for them to find everyone. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: Nic Robertson, thank you so much.
 
All right. Now, to Sudan, where there was a desperate scramble as 1000s try to escape the violence between warring military factions.
 
WHITFIELD: The U.N. says more than 50,000 people have already fled to neighboring countries. And you're seeing new video of some of the 1,800 people who made it to Saudi Arabia by ship earlier today.
 
Some U.S. nationals who made it out of the country, tell CNN that food and fresh water are beginning to run out. The White House maintains there are no plans to help evacuate Americans trapped in the country.
 
CNN is Larry Madowo, joining me now by phone from a Saudi evacuation ship on the Red Sea. And CNN senior editor for Africa, Stephanie Busari is in Lagos, Nigeria for us.
 
So, Larry, let me go to you first, tell us about the evacuation operation that you're seeing, and who gets to get on that ship and how?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Who arrived in (INAUDIBLE) today are the lucky ones. They will -- 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. So, Larry, that signals pretty poor, we're going to try and reestablish that with you and try to get back with you.
 
Meantime, Stephanie, you are hearing about the stories of people who are trying to get out and those who aren't able to get out, what they're encountering.
 
Bring us up to date on what you know.
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR, AFRICA (on camera): Sure, Fred, it's really a tale of two evacuations here. As foreign countries scramble to get their citizens out, there's a growing sense of anger and frustration from Sudanese who are left in the country and really left to fend for themselves.
 
And to compound matters, when the foreign embassies were shot and evacuated, many Sudanese had their travel documents trapped in these -- in these consulates, because some of them may have applied for visas or other travel permits.
 
So, it really compounds the matter that they can't get out. And people are coming in, countries are coming in to remove their citizens and many Sudanese are telling me that they are fearful that once foreign nationals are taken out of the country, then, the world is essentially going to forget about the plight of the Sudanese.
 
I did speak to one woman who managed to get out of Sudan, and she made a bus journey to the Egyptian border. Take a listen to what she had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ROZAN AHMED, FLED SUDAN: I saw elderly people who were just having to wait in the boiling hot heat, for the process, as there were -- there were so many people there, they couldn't lie down, they couldn't sit down.
 
It just broke my heart that there wasn't any humanitarian assistance there either.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BUSARI: So, the U.N. has said that, Sudan is staring into an abyss in terms of the humanitarian crisis that is looming. And don't forget that the country was already in some kind of need of humanitarian assistance before this conflict. About a third of the country's 46 million people were relying on international aid agencies for humanitarian assistance before this happened.
 
And now, the problem is compounded. More people will need that assistance. Lack of food, no water, no power, and -- but many aid agencies have been forced to evacuate their staff and that the ceasefire which is so fragile, which has not been held really since the conflict started, is really hampering the efforts to get aid into the country to help the people who will really need it the most.
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
And what people are telling me, what the Sudanese are saying is, the world must not forget us. We need this assistance urgently. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh, it's a desperate situation. But I mean, you just so aptly described. The humanitarian agencies that were in there, they -- many of them have been able to pull a lot of their people out.
 
So, now you've got this dearth. You still need humanitarian assistance, but they can't necessarily get in because it's just too tenuous and too dangerous.
 
I mean, are there any indicators that there would be humanitarian agencies that will be willing at this juncture to take the risk to enter to help Sudanese and others who feel trapped, and you know, don't have water and food supply and medicine?
 
BUSARI: Yes, I mean, many of the aid agencies have retained stuff in parts of Sudan, where it is safer. Such as the port of Sudan where they can try to do what they -- what they -- what they're able to.
 
But it's just such a tense situation. One ceasefire that was supposed to happen today to allow this humanitarian corridor just did not hold. And we've been hearing heavy fighting in Khartoum, the capital and heavy plumes of smoke being seen in the capital earlier today.
 
So, it's just such a tense situation for anybody to operating. And it just doesn't give much hope that this conflict is going to end anytime soon. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: So, terribly sad. All right. Stephanie Busari, thank you so much.
 
And Larry Madowo, are you there? Do we reestablish a connection? All right. No. We're going to try though, may, perhaps later on this hour.
 
All right. Thank you. Right now, more than 20 million people are facing the threat of severe storms in this country after parts of the south were hammered with baseball sized hail this week.
 
WHITFIELD (voice over): Who stands to be impacted next?
 
And victories for abortion rights advocates in two ruby red states. A Republican lawmakers voted to block severe abortion restrictions in their state legislatures. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:16:19]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Severe storm threats are bearing down on huge swaths of the country right now as many of the areas at risk face widespread flooding.
 
Dozens of rivers are in a major flood stage across the Midwest from Minneapolis to Iowa. And rapid snow melt is causing a slow-moving swell of flooding in the Mississippi River, already bursting its banks in some communities.
 
Meanwhile, officials are closing parts of Yosemite National Park for fear of major flooding there as well.
 
The same storm system that brought golf ball sized hail to Texas is now pushing into the southeast, threatening more than 20 million people with strong winds, heavy rain and the possibility of tornadoes across Georgia and Florida.
 
Boy, there's a lot going on CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar is here with more.
 
All right. So, where do you begin? It's seemingly everywhere.
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST (on camera): It is. And that's because we have multiple systems here. So, you have one that's in the Midwest, a secondary one that's over towards the northeast.
 
And then, our third and final system, it's down along the Gulf Coast. And that's where we begin because that's where we have the best chance for strong to severe thunderstorms for today.
 
It's going to be two separate rounds. But that first round is just now starting to make its way towards the coastal regions of Florida.
 
Here is an overall look at the rest of the day. However, all of these areas you see here, so from New Orleans to Charleston, back down towards Miami, all of them have the potential for damaging winds, large hail, and yes, even tornadoes and some water spouts right there along the coastline. But it's two different waves. So, you have that first wave, that's what's starting to enter in now that will continue through the afternoon hours.
 
And then we have a secondary wave. That's the stuff that's over by Louisiana and Mississippi in the afternoon that gradually makes its way over to Florida, once we get into the evening and especially into the overnight hours.
 
Back up to the north. This is not so much severe storms, but just some rain. But some of it is going to be very heavy at times, especially for states like New York and Pennsylvania, where we could end up picking up several inches of rain in the next 24 to 48 hours.
 
The main focus for flooding today is going to be that South Eastern Region, basically Georgia, Alabama, areas of Florida.
 
By tomorrow, because the system shifts, the main concern for flooding is going to be in the northeast. We talked about New York and Pennsylvania, but also areas of Massachusetts and even Maine, also looking at the potential for some flooding.
 
We also still have some strong to severe thunderstorms that will linger tomorrow. It's just shifting a little bit farther east and south.
 
So, for tomorrow we're talking basically Dover, Delaware, back down through Savannah, Georgia. And then, we also have this area down here across central and southern Florida.
 
But the threats themselves remain the same. We're still talking, Fred, the potential for some damaging winds, isolated tornadoes, and also some hail.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my. All right, all of it. Thank you so much, Allison Chinchar.
 
All right. Next, anti-abortion bills fail in Republican-led legislatures. Thanks in part to Republican women. How they're going against their own parties, and why they say they will keep doing it?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:23:24]
 
WHITFIELD: Right now, there are new signs of unease among some within the GOP over abortion rights, after measures that would have severely restricted the procedure failed in the deep red states of Nebraska and South Carolina this week.
 
Here now with CNN's Dianne Gallagher.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: There are millions of women who feel like they had not been heard, and that's why I'm standing up here this long. And I've never done this before.
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Lawmakers in two conservative states, South Carolina and Nebraska rejecting extreme abortion restrictions Thursday by the slimmest of margins, just one vote.
 
For the third time since the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe versus Wade last summer, the South Carolina State Senate where Republicans outnumber Democrats nearly two to one blocked a ban on abortion in the state with limited exceptions for rape and incest.
 
The five women senators, three of whom are Republicans led a filibuster where they spoke for days about biology, backlash, and the concept of control.
 
SEN. KATRINA FRYE SHEALY (R-SC): Once a woman became pregnant for any reason. She would now become property of the state of South Carolina.
 
SEN. SANDY SENN (R-SC): Abortion laws have always been, each and every one of them about control.
 
GALLAGHER: In Nebraska, Thursday, tears and cheers after lawmakers killed the bill that would ban abortion around the sixth week of pregnancy, often before someone knows they are pregnant. A vote to break a filibuster failed by just one vote when two senators abstain.
 
One of them, the bill's co-sponsor, 80-year-old Merv Riepe, who said he'd done more research and offered an amendment moving the deadline to 12 weeks. That never got a vote.
 <br>[12:24:59]
 
SEN. MERV RIEPE (R-NE): The six-week band appears to be a winner take all position. Ban the pushback will be strong, it will be immediate, and it will be funded heavily, as now seen in other states.
 
GALLAGHER: His warning on the pushback felt nationally in the first real test after the Supreme Court's Dobbs ruling gave states the final decision on abortion, Kansas voters shocked Republicans with a resounding rejection of restrictions at the polls.
 
But since then, several states have enacted new laws severely limiting abortion access, especially in the south.
 
Though some states remain tied up in the courts. South Carolina did pass a six-week abortion ban, but the state Supreme Court struck it down.
 
So, as neighboring states shut down access, South Carolina has seen a sharp increase in out of state patients seeking abortion care.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GALLAGHER (on camera): Right now, abortion is currently legal in both South Carolina and Nebraska until about 20 weeks or so. But further restrictions are not necessarily off the table. Especially in South Carolina, where there is still about a week of the session to go. And the state senate did pass a bill that they say addressed the issues that the state Supreme Court has with that six-week abortion ban with some exceptions.
 
But according to those senators, those three Republican women, the House will not entertain any kind of legislation that is not a total ban on abortion.
 
Fred, those senators said that they feel the two chambers are at an impasse.
 
WHITFIELD: Dianne Gallagher, thanks so much.
 
Gender affirming care for minors is officially banned in the state of Montana.
 
WHITFIELD (voice over): Republican Governor Greg Gianforte signed the bill into law yesterday, despite receiving sharp criticism from human rights advocates as well as from his own 32-year-old son, who identifies as non-binary.
 
The bill has been dubbed the Youth Health Protection Act. And according to the governor's office, we'll quote now -- I'm quoting now, "Ban minors from receiving any experimental puberty blockers, cross-sex hormones or undergoing irreversible life altering surgical procedures".
 
Earlier this week, Montana's Republican controlled House voted to ban Democratic State Representatives Zooey Zephyr, the state's first transgender lawmaker from the House floor, over comments she made on gender affirming care, saying supporters of the bill will have blood on their hands for banning gender affirming care for transgender children.
 
WHITFIELD (on camera): And it was a dramatic week in court.
 
E. Jean Carroll returned to the stand in her civil lawsuit against Donald Trump, stemming from allegations of rape. Did the defense make a major miscalculation during cross examination?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:31:51]
 
WHITFIELD: Welcome back E. Jean Carroll, the woman who has accused Donald Trump of battery and defamation is expected to be back on the witness stand Monday as her civil trial against the former president enters its second week. The former magazine columnist claims Trump raped her in a New York City Department Store dressing room in the 1990s and then defamed her when he repeatedly denied her claims. CNN is Paula Reid has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): E Jean Carroll grilled on her allegations that Donald Trump raped her in a department store in the 1990s. This on the third day of her civil battery and defamation lawsuit in a federal court in Manhattan. Trump's defense lawyer Joe Tacopina cross examined Carroll for hours today about her story and her motivations. Using your own words the facts that you have alleged in the story you have alleged here are odd, Tacopina said. Carroll responded, certain parts of the story are difficult to conceive of, yes.
 
The exchange becoming heated when Tacopina repeatedly asked Carroll why she didn't scream during the alleged assault. I'm not a screamer. I was too much in panic to scream. You can't beat up on me for not screaming. Tacopina shot back, I'm not beating you up. I'm asking you questions, Ms. Carroll. Through tears, Carroll asserted. I'm telling you he raped me whether I screamed or not. I don't need an excuse for not screaming. Tacopina, an experienced trial attorney also currently defending Trump in an unrelated criminal case being brought by Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg is known for his brash style of defending clients.
 
JOE TACOPINA, TRUMP DEFENSE ATTORNEY: No, no, no. It I can't be. This was a federal presidential election, the allegation here in some Twilight Zone sort of scenario.
 
REID (voice-over): Outside court, a Trump spokesperson said the case is entirely political. And Trump himself accuses Carroll of lying, saying her case is quote, a made up scam. Took a peanut press Carroll on why she waited until 2019 to go public with her story. She said she was mourning her mother's death. And then I thought this may be a way to change the culture of sexual violence, the light dawned. We can actually change things if we all tell our stories. And I thought, by God, this may be the time.
 
(on camera): Tacopina told the judge he's about halfway through his cross examination. Now there's no court on Friday. So Carroll is expected to be back on the witness stand Monday to face more questions from Trump's attorney.
 
Paul Reid, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right, let's talk more about this with me now is Shan Wu. He is a former federal prosecutor and a defense attorney. Good to see you Shan. So what do you make of this very aggressive cross examination by Trump's attorney? I mean, how does that kind of questioning go over with jury in this kind of case?
 
SHAN WU, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: I don't think it's going to go over very well, Fred. As a former sex crimes prosecutor I mean I'm rather offended by the tactics that he is taking here but as a matter of strategy it's just not going well. And he's doing a cross examination right out of the 1940s and 50s, where he's insisting that she cannot be believed, because she didn't scream and fight. And, you know, that type of reaction has long been discarded by anybody who's paying attention to what kind of traumas actually inflicted on sexual assault survivors.
 <br>[12:35:29]
 
From a legal strategy point of view, Fred, I don't think that's going to go over very well with a Manhattan jury in the 21st century, frankly. He may be playing to his client's wishes for him to be very blustery. But he's the wrong type of personality for a case like this and his strategies, very questionable. Even some of the themes of his questioning, seem like they're kind of going awry for him.
 
WHITFIELD: So Donald Trump, he's not expected to testify, nor even show up in court. And you wrote a piece in "The Daily Beast" this week saying that decision was a big mistake for the former president to not make an appearance in court. Why?
 
WU: I think so. Because, you know, from a jury's point of view, I mean, it's tough being on a jury, you have to devote a lot of your time and, you know, you're way from work, family, other obligations, they have to be there. And, you know, it's only human be thinking I have to be here. How come he's not here? 
 
And obviously, Trump's strategy here is to make it seem like oh, this is such a trivial matter that I'm far above this, but I don't think that his absence does any good. Because every moment you're in a courtroom, you're on evidence, and they can look at her demeanor every day, not just when she's on the stand. And for him, it's just an empty chair. And he's just got Tacopina there representing him.
 
And you know, Tacopina right now is trying to be very blustery. That's his style. But a lot of his points on cross examination Fred really go to consent. He's saying, Oh, maybe you laughed at them, because she said, she laughed to try and, you know, push them away, saying he didn't scream. That goes to whether she consented it doesn't follow his theme of attacking her credibility. So when you put that together with the fact that there's no client there, I think it's not looking that favorable for them.
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. And she essentially gets the last word then right because, you know, Donald Trump, or any of his witnesses, or whoever he would want to call doesn't get to challenge her testimony or that of any other, you know, testimonies. So E. Jean Carroll, you know, alleges that Trump raped her back in the 1990s, and then defamed her when he denied the claims. This is a civil rather than a criminal case. So help us understand there are different thresholds for criminal versus civil.
 
WU: Yes, the civil threshold of proof is a lower standard evidence is preponderance of the evidence versus the highest standard we have, which is beyond a reasonable doubt, for criminal cases. And I think the easiest analogy that comes to mind here is if remember, the famous O.J. Simpson murder trial, where he was acquitted. That was the criminal trial beyond reasonable doubt, prosecution failed to make that burden. But in the civil trial, he was found responsible under the preponderance standard.
 
So here Ms. Carroll is proceeding under a preponderance standard, not a higher beyond the reasonable doubt standard, which of course, is helpful for her as well. Trump still has a potential Fifth Amendment right. He has a right not to testify, right? Not to be there. 
 
But in other critical differences, if he's invoking his Fifth Amendment right, not to testify in a civil trial, Ms. Carroll's lawyers can actually reference that and ask for an inference to be drawn against them. You can't do that. In the criminal trial, you can't touch the Fifth Amendment at all.
 
WHITFIELD: And you made the parallel, say the O.J. Simpson, you know, case civil versus criminal. Even with the acquittal, there was payment, you know, that was the penalty in that civil case. Is that potentially what could happen here? If E. Jean Carroll gets a ruling in her favor, that there would be a financial penalty?
 
WU: Oh, absolutely. I mean, there's financial penalty for the damages for the defamation injury to reputation and character. And then there will also be damages for it. It's really a tort. It's the battery, sexual battery of the perhaps injuries to her. It sounds like as cost long term damage for her in terms of counseling, the psychological trauma, so they'll certainly be financial damages if they find in favor of Ms. Carroll's claims.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Shan Wu, great to see you. Thanks so much.
 
WU: Good to see you.
 <br>[12:39:40]
 
All right, can artificial intelligence help police departments evaluate their officers in the field? CNN got a firsthand look at the new technology being tested across the country. See it for yourself, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right, police departments in the U.S. are turning to artificial intelligence to improve accountability. AI is being used to scan body cam footage and determine whether an officer acted professionally. Some police chief's think it could save lives as Vanessa Yurkevich reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS &amp; POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Officer Dan Janeda is on patrol. He has all his tools for the day including his body worn camera, which automatically captures videos of his encounters with civilians.
 
(on camera): Safety first.
 
OFFICER DAN JANEDA, CASTLE SHANNON, PENNSYLVANIA POLICE: Absolutely.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): Twenty videos a day over 100 hours a week. His final invisible piece of equipment, artificial intelligence, a program called Truleo which analyzes what he records. [12:45:04]
 
(on camera): Did you have fears about what it meant to have artificial intelligence tracking your day to day.
 
JANEDA: I did have apprehensions. It is -- technology can sometimes have drawbacks. It's not perfect. But at the same time, I've seen things play out enough where technology has helped us.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): And that is what Truleo's co-founder and CEO Anthony Tassone is aiming for.
 
ANTHONY TASSONE, CO-FOUNDER AND CEO, TRULEO: I started Truleo after George Floyd was murdered in May of 2020. How do we prevent this from happening again?
 
YURKEVICH (on camera): What percentage of body camera footage gets reviewed now?
 
TASSONE: A fraction of 1 percent.
 
YURKEVICH: And Truleo could look at what percentage of body cam video?
 
TASSONE: One hundred percent.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): The AI was trained by humans to detect 5 million key terms.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I got him in the yard.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): Like profanity, non-compliance, as well as professional language or explanations. The goal is detecting early problematic police behavior before it turns deadly.
 
CHIEF KEN TRUVER, CASTLE SHANNON PD: I get an e-mail alert every day at 6 o'clock.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): Dan Janeda's Chief Ken Truver of Castle Shannon PD in Pennsylvania has been using Truleo for a year. He's also an advisor.
 
(on camera): These are keywords that you put in?
 
TRUVER: They are. So stop resisting, custody, arrest, anything to do with a pursuit. I'm looking for high risk things.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): Truleo transcribes entire encounters from body cameras, but pinpoints the exact moments that need review.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Stop resisting.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just relax, just relax.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just relax.
 
TRUVER: Not a whole lot of resistance, but it was giving me exactly what I was looking for.
 
YURKEVICH (on camera): And so for you this is a good interaction with one of your officers in a civilian.
 
TRUVER: It is.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): The Alameda Police Department in California has been using Truleo for a little over a year. It's seen a 36 percent drop in use of force by officers Tassone says. The AI pointed out risky interactions with civilians, giving officers the chance to review and change their behaviors.
 
(on camera): What would truly his involvement have been in a situation like Tyre Nichols?
 
TASSONE: I feel very strongly that truly Oh, not only would have recognized obviously the event of the murder of Tyre Nichols, but the hundreds of events that took place prior to that. I believe Truleo would have prevented the death of Tyre because it would have detected the deterioration in the officer's behavior years prior.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): There are 18,000 police departments in the U.S., just 20 are using Truleo with 20 more signing on this year, including Aurora PD in Colorado.
 
CHIEF ART ACEVEDO, AURORA, COLORADO POLICE: It will be an early warning system that will help save careers and ultimately maybe even save lives.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): In 2019, three Aurora police officers were charged with the death of Elijah McClain using excessive force during his arrest.
 
ACEVEDO: If we see just a little change in the officer's performance. We'll be able to actually intervene early on, get them help, get them counseling, get them training, do whatever it takes to get back on the right track.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): Back in Castle Shannon, Chief Truver says the technology has only proven what he already suspected about his officers.
 
(on camera): What has this changed, anything?
 
TRUVER: No. And I don't think that's bad thing. I want to catch something before it happens. I don't want to be reactionary. We want to be looking ahead to make sure that we stay ahead of the game, ahead of any issues. And I don't think that's a bad thing.
 
YURKEVICH (voice-over): Vanessa Yurkevich, CNN, Castle Shannon, Pennsylvania.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right, let's talk further on all this joining me right now is Dr. Gary Marcus. He is an AI expert and emeritus professor of psychology and neural science at NYU. Good to see you, Professor. Oh, and there's more. You're also the author of the book rebooting AI building artificial intelligence we can trust. All right, good to see you. So even though there is, you know, a lot of anxiety and even fear about artificial intelligence systems like the one we just saw, or some of the positive applications of AI, would you agree?
 
DR. GARY MARCUS, AI EXPERT: Yes, there are lots of positive applications. There are things we should worry about. But this is not one that goes after individual people based on limited data. People collect data over time. There are humans in the loop. And so even though there are limits to the AI, there's a chance to fix them. So this was actually an application that I liked.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. All right, I wonder if you like this application this week, the Republican National Committee responded, you know, to President Biden's reelection announcement with this AI generated video. Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: My fellow Americans.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This morning an involvement in China invades Taiwan.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Financial markets are in free fall as 500 regional banks have shuttered their doors.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Border agents were overrun by a surge of 80,000 illegal yesterday evening.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[12:50:02]
 
WHITFIELD: All right so what are your thoughts or concerns about, you know, campaigns and candidates, you know, either not clearly identifying content created with artificial intelligence, or just using AI at all.
 
MARCUS: I think this is a terrible application that threatens democracy. I think the 2024 election is in real jeopardy because it's way too easy to make up fake content now, whether that's written, or whether it's video, like you just saw there, the stakes are going to go up, people are going to put out massive amounts of misinformation. And it's going to be harder for people to know what to trust. And that's not good for democracy. So this is one of the things that keeps me up at night.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. So how do you combat that? I mean is there such a thing or is there a way in which to regulate, you know, the use of AI who would make that determination of when it's good, fair, right or wrong?
 
MARCUS: I think there are lots of different regulations we have to think about. So they're regulations about misinformation, driverless car safety, that many different subtopics, lots of people are working on it. It's not very well globally coordinated, which is why I've been calling for an international agency for AI. I think it's a good start, the FTC and so forth is saying we're going to push the existing regulations. But for example, on misinformation, we have a new problem, which is that people could put out millions or billions of bits of fake news every day, we've never had that kind of wholesale level of misinformation before.
 
So that's an example where we're actually going to need new policies. There was a great letter from Mark, earlier this week, to the some of the tech companies saying, you know, that means business. And I really liked that saying, we want to know, what are you doing about all these risks? Not enough to say they exist? How are you going to fight them? What information you're going to give us so we can fight them?
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, in fact, I have a portion of Senator Mark Warner's letter, the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and he wrote, you know, as companies like yours make rapid advancements in AI, we must acknowledge the security risks inherent in this technology and ensure AI development and adoption proceeds in a responsible and secure way beyond industry commitments.
 
However, it is also clear that some level of regulation is necessary in this field. And, you know, he -- this letter was two leaders of several tech companies, Open AI, Google, Meta, Microsoft, all asking them about prioritizing security and intent. What are your thoughts about self-regulation? Is that going to be enough?
 
MARCUS: No, I doubt self-regulation will be enough. But I think we're at a special moment in history where the governments are afraid the tech companies. And the tech companies are afraid that the government's are going to shut them down. And so maybe we can get everybody to the table. I don't think it's enough. 
 
Just the tech companies know, look, for example, what happened with Sydney with Microsoft, it did a lot of really weird things. And Microsoft just said, well, we're just going to keep doing it because we see a big piece of market share.
 
I think it's really essential that both government, academics, scientists of various sorts, and the tech companies are all at the table that we have a global voice and all this the whole world is going to be effective. I don't -- we can just say, oh, tech companies, you've sorted out for yourselves. They haven't -- we have and things are just escalating like you saw with the RNC at. So far, he's not done anything substantial to stop that.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, we're going to leave it there for now. Dr. Gary Marcus. I'm sure it's just the beginning. We'll be talking about this a lot more, as you say, as it really does ultimately, find its way of impacting everyone. Thanks so much.
 <br>[12:53:40]
 
All right, and it's one of the biggest nights in the nation's Capitol, I'm talking about nerd prom or the White House Correspondents Dinner. President Biden and host Roy Wood Jr. are headlining it live tonight at 8:00 p.m. right here on CNN, we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right, a hero's welcome for a 13-year-old boy who saw his school bus driver in trouble seem to be passing out. And then the teen grabbed the wheel of the bus. CNN affiliate WXYZ has the story in Warren, Michigan.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DYLAN REEVES, CARTER MIDDLE SCHOOL SEVENTH GRADER: Does someone call 911.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Does as a seventh grader at Carter Middle School in Warren, Dylan Reeves knows it's not easy being a hero, but that's exactly what he became with no time to spare.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Very, very proud. I mean, this is overwhelming for all of us that this is national at this point.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Dylan's actions nothing short of remarkable when his bus driver became lightheaded and passed out on their trip home for the day. Dylan wasting no time making the move to help as the bus was traveling on Masonic Boulevard near Bonnard Road. Video shows Dylan stepping to the front and helping bring it to a stop safely without incident.
 
ROBERT LIVERNOIS, SUPERINTENDENT, WARREN CONSOLIDATED SCHOOLS: He stood up. And he assessed the situation and eventually saw that the driver had passed out. This was an extraordinary act of courage and maturity on his part. He jumped up from his seat, threw his backpack down, ran to the front of the bus, grabbed the steering wheel and brought the bus to a stop.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He is very attentive to his surroundings.
 
IRETA REEVES, MOTHER: And we asked him, I asked him Dylan, how did you know what to do? How did you know how to drive that bus? And he said, I watch her do it every day.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He and his mother being publicly praised for the incredible response to an emergency, and other parents have also stepped up to thank Dylan. As a result of his courage, police and fire were able to quickly catch up to the bus and render aid, getting an ambulance for the driver to get help while getting kids onto another bus.
 
I. REEVES: It's really It's been a great guy this year. He has come a long way. He surprised us with great grades and with his performances at school with friends with peers. And to do something like this just fills my heart. It makes my heart skip a beat.
 <br>[13:00:19]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Reflecting on how he stopped the bus Dylan remains humble, as the entire community acknowledges this was no small act of bravery.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: A pretty big little hero. Our thanks to WXYZ for that.