Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Israel Launches Jenin "Counterterrorism" Operation, Palestinian Official Calls West Bank Raid "New War Crime"; President Macron Attempts to Restore Calm, Order; French Tourism Sector Suffers Amid Protests; Speaking to the "Sultan of Space"; CNN Speaks to Emirati Astronaut Aboard Space Station; UAE sees Satellite Data as New Oil. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired July 03, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this hour the largest Israeli military operation in Jenin since 2002. We'll be speaking to a 
 
 lawmaker. The why and the how we'll get answers on that in just a moment. But first, your headlines this hour.
 
One person has been killed in a drone attack on Ukrainian residential buildings in the City of Sumi. It follows a barrage of Russian drones 
 
 launched overnight. More than 150 people have been detained after a six day of protests involving the fatal shooting of a 17-year-old in Paris. French 
 
 President Emmanuel Macron meets today with lawmakers to address the chaos as tensions ease. And later this hour --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SULTAN AL NEYADI, EMIRATI ASTRONAUT: I am eating the greetings I brought my companion Sohail (ph) who's always with me and I made him wear Kandura the 
 
 UAE traditional cloth.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: All right. We'll be showing you an interview from out of this world. Welcome to our second hour of "Connect the World". The largest 
 
 Israeli military incursion in 20 years is ongoing in the West Bank; at least eight Palestinians have been killed in Jenin as Israel strikes what 
 
 its Foreign Minister calls a terrorism hub.
 
This comes two weeks after a raid in the same area erupted into a massive firefight. So tonight we ask why the escalating violence in that area of 
 
 the occupied West Bank? And joining us now live Danny Danon is a member of Israel's Legislature, the Knesset from the Likud Party, and he served as 
 
 Israel's Ambassador to the United Nations.
 
Sir great to have you with us thank you so much for taking the time! This is the largest incursion that we've seen in 20 years. Could you describe to 
 
 us the scale of the raid and the airstrikes and what we're seeing occurring over the past few days, few hours?
 
DANNY DANON, ISRAELI KNESSET MEMBER: Eleni, it is the limited operation of the IDF in the area of Jenin, which unfortunately became a hub for 
 
 terrorism. We have experienced a wave of terror attacks coming from -- attacking Israeli civilians and dozens of Israelis were killed because of 
 
 those vicious attacks.
 
We had no other choice. We had to send our boys and girls to protect our people to fight those terrorists to hunt them down. That's exactly what we 
 
 are doing today. We're trying to minimize casualties of civilian population, while the terrorists are doing exactly the opposite.
 
They are hiding in masks. They are hiding in UN facilities. But we are determined to hunt them down. And to make sure that it will be very hard 
 
 for them to create the environment of terror like they did in the past.
 
GIOKOS: Could you explain to us why now? I want to talk about the timing that we're seeing playing out?
 
DANON: So what we have seen recently is the influence of Iran in the region by bringing new technology. Only last week, we saw a rocket from Jenin that 
 
 was aimed to our community in the northern part of Israel.
 
Once we realized that this technology is coming into the region that funding from Tehran is available for those terrorists and the number of 
 
 attacks against our communities. Last week, we saw a horrible attack where four Israelis were murdered while they were having lunch in a restaurant.
 
So once we realized that will not end, we decided to take action. As I said at the beginning, it's a limited action. And we give full support for the 
 
 Prime Minister and for our troops to complete the mission.
 
GIOKOS: In terms of your objectives, were many hours into the raid you've described the area as terrorist hotspots. Have you achieved some of the 
 
 objectives that you set out at the start of this? Where are we right now, in terms of what you've been able to achieve?
 
DANON: We're in the middle of the operation. We have good intelligence. And today our troops were very busy, you know, finding those terrorists making 
 
 arrests, finding labs, where they were actually conducting the experiments that were putting the bombs together. I think we will continue with this 
 
 operation. We are not intending to stay there for a long period of time. But we will continue as long as it takes to complete the mission.
 
GIOKOS: I mean, look, this is the latest series of incidents, of course in terms of targeting militants, which the IDF has been doing. Are you 
 
 concerned this is going to further inflame the situation?
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
DANON: That would not be our goal. Our goal is to bring stability to the region to secure the lives of innocent Israelis, and to make sure that 
 
 there will be less capability for the terror organizations that are active in the Jenin area.
 
We know it's not going to be forever. Unfortunately, every few year, we have to step in and do the work there. Unfortunately, the Palestinian 
 
 Authority is not capable of finding those radical militants. That's why we have to step in and make those arrests and stop those attacks from 
 
 fulfilling the wishes.
 
GIOKOS: So you say this is the right thing to do. And this was inevitable in terms of securing peace. But I want to talk about the casualties here, 
 
 because we've seen a people die. We've seen numerous injuries as well, what is your understanding about the profile of the people that have died?
 
DANON: It's not eight people, its eight terrorists, that their weapons their guns were identified --
 
GIOKOS: So they were all terrorists?
 
DANON: -- them. Well, seven out of the eight, were carrying weapons while they were killed. So I don't know about the eighth. But, you know, I 
 
 apparently they were in the same area. But those guys were not innocent civilians.
 
You know, we send text messages in advance telling the civilians to stay in their homes. We are taking the precautions to make sure not to have any 
 
 civilian casualties. We cannot guarantee it, but we are doing our best to do it.
 
GIOKOS: But let's talk about the eight people who died. You say that they are eight terrorists. So you're confirming that the deaths right now did 
 
 not include civilian casualties?
 
DANON: Well, I can confirm you that seven out of the eight, were carrying weapons, and were shooting our troops. And so for sure I can make a 
 
 commitment about those seven. But I believe that also the eighth one was involved. But I don't have the information today. But I can tell you that 
 
 our commanders are doing everything in their power to make sure that we attack the terrorists and we held the terrorists.
 
GIOKOS: Yes, I mean, they're also 50 people that have been wounded. So we know the situation on the ground is becoming extremely intense. You've seen 
 
 the condemnation coming through from various countries, Egypt has also stood firm. Are you concerned about how this is going to potentially impact 
 
 your relationship with some Arab states, particularly the ones with whom you've signed the Abraham Accords?
 
DANON: Well, we have strong relations with those countries. They understand, because they are facing terrorism as well in the region from 
 
 the same radical groups, and they realize that we have no other option.
 
You know, it's not our intention to be there. But when we know about the threats, and we know about the capabilities, I believe any other country in 
 
 the world, not only the region, will do the same, will neutralize the threats against civilians.
 
GIOKOS: Did you? Do we know anything about in terms of whether there have been discussions with Washington about this raid and whether the United 
 
 States gave the green light?
 
DANON: Well, we don't need a green light from anyone. But we do have an open dialogue with our colleagues in Washington. You know, we share with 
 
 them a lot of the intelligence we gather in the region, and we have good cooperation with them.
 
So yes, we are talking with our colleagues in D.C. But we don't ask for green lights. You know, that's what our policy, any government in Israel 
 
 will take the right decisions to protect our civilians. And we don't need authority, not from the U.S. not from the EU and not from the UN.
 
GIOKOS: Well, the UN Lynne Hastings says, and she's the Resident Humanitarian Coordinator said she was alarmed at the scale of this 
 
 operation. Do you accept that characterization?
 
DANON: No, I think many people that you know jumped into conclusions with what we have seen in the last few hours that we have a very precise 
 
 operation. And we are very cautious about using force.
 
And we are focusing on hunting down the terrorist in the labs of terror that they built in Jenin area. So I don't think there's any reason to 
 
 condemn us. But you know, some people don't look at the details whenever they see some activity of our troops they condemn us immediately.
 
GIOKOS: Sir, thank you very much for your time. It was great to get insight from you. Much appreciate it. All right, to Ukrainian now, which is 
 
 claiming new gains on its eastern front particularly in the battle for the City of Bakhmut?
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
A defense official says Ukrainian forces are making new advances and have retaken around 37 square kilometers over the past week. In other 
 
 developments, we're hearing that a Ukrainian writer known for her research into war crimes was killed in a Russian missile attack. 37-year-old 
 
 Victoria Amelina died after a strike on a restaurant in the Eastern City of Kramatorsk last week.
 
Let's get to it right away. We've got Ben Wedeman in Eastern Ukraine, for us. And again, we've been talking about the intense fighting. It's 
 
 particularly around Bakhmut and the fate of Bakhmut what more can you tell us?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, we know Eleni that the Ukrainians there are tempting to encircle Bakhmut. They've got 
 
 forces from the south, and advancing from the north. But however, they are advancing very slowly.
 
We heard the Deputy Defense Minister here saying that within the last week, they've advanced, they've taken nine square kilometers in Eastern Ukraine. 
 
 That's fairly modest. But we know that the fighting there is intense.
 
The Russians have deployed thousands of fresh troops from other areas along the thousand long kilometer front to the Bakhmut area. So progress is 
 
 difficult. We've heard it from multiple Ukrainian officials including Presidents Zelenskyy himself that expectations perhaps should be tamping 
 
 down, that the going is very difficult.
 
And from the Russians, we hear from Ukrainian troops themselves, that even during the disorder in Moscow during the Yevgeny Prigozhin's brief mutiny 
 
 and afterwards, there hasn't been any really change in terms of the disposition of Russian forces in Bakhmut itself.
 
Now they've made somewhat more progress in the area south of the City of Zaporizhzhia where they've taken approximately 29 or 28 square kilometers, 
 
 also a fairly modest advance given for instance, if you take into account how much territory they were able to seize from the Russians back in 
 
 September, in the Kharkiv area and later in Kherson in the south.
 
But the Russians keep in mind they have had months and months to prepare for this offensive and therefore it was inevitable that they go in was 
 
 going to be very difficult, Eleni.
 
GIOKOS: Ben Wedeman for us thank you. Ukraine's President has given a scathing assessment of Vladimir Putin's response to last month's Wagner 
 
 rebellion, calling the Russian President weak. In a CNN Exclusive President Zelenskyy also spoke about the historic importance of Crimea territory that 
 
 was annexed by Russia in 2014, saying the ultimate goal is to liberate it.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: We cannot imagine Ukraine without Crimea. Crimea is under the Russian occupation that means only one thing. 
 
 War is not over yet.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: To be clear, in victory in peace is there any scenario where Crimea is not part of Ukraine?
 
ZELENSKYY: It will not be victory then.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I know the USDA Chief Bill Burns has come and visited you regularly. He was here recently. What did you tell him about your plans 
 
 to take back territory in the counter offensive?
 
ZELENSKYY: To be honest with you, I was surprised to see the information in some media both in the U.S. and Ukrainian and European media. My 
 
 communication with the CIA Chief should always be behind the scenes and the media attention because we discuss important things, what Ukraine needs and 
 
 how Ukraine is prepared to act.
 
We don't have any secrets from CIA, because we have good relations and our intelligence services talk with each other. I don't know what other 
 
 contacts were. I don't really remember which media I read it in. The situation is pretty straightforward. We have good relations with the CIA 
 
 Chief, and we are talking. I told him about all the important things related to the battlefield which we need.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS: All right. Well up next on "Connect the World", a live report from France as hundreds turn out in a march of solidarity for a Mayor whose 
 
 house was attacked. And later this hour we hear from Sultan Al Neyadi the Emirati Astronaut aboard the International Space Station about exercising 
 
 in the cosmos. How he prays and fasts and whether he's seen alien up there details coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
GIOKOS: An uneasy calm appears to hover over France after six days of violent nationwide protest in response to the police killing of a teenager 
 
 overnight. Nearly 150 people were detained but authorities report hundreds of fire damage incidents.
 
Meanwhile, French President Emmanuel Macron is pushing for an end to the riots, which have tested his authority and reforms. And he met with top 
 
 cabinet officials on Sunday. Today he handles with members of the French Parliament.
 
CNN Melissa Bell joins us now from late L'Hay-los-Roses (ph) in suburban Paris. Tell us a little bit more about the solidarity march that just 
 
 happened near you. And of course it was all about the attack on a Mayor's home?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN PARIS CORRESPONDENT: That's right. This is a suburb, Eleni where we saw quite a bit of violence yesterday. So you can still see 
 
 on the town hall behind me the damage done to the windows there. A car that had been damaged here has been taken away now.
 
But it was of course, that most shocking incident the ramming into the house of the wife of the Mayor. He himself had been there but she had been 
 
 there with her two young children a car that was on fire.
 
An investigation into attempted murder has been opened and what the many hundreds who turned out today here in solidarity with the Mayor wanted to 
 
 say was that, in his words, a line had been crossed this attacking of a woman and her two children in her home.
 
But it is perhaps the appeal for calm on the part of Nahel's grandmother that has been the most effective rather than any of the particular 
 
 incidents of violence over the weekend. This is what she had to say about the ongoing violence.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NADIA, GRANDMOTHER OF SHOOTING VICTIMS: I blame the policeman who killed my grandson. I'm the grandmother; I blamed the policeman who killed my 
 
 grandson. That's all I want. The police they are here fortunately, they're here and the people who are breaking things that tell them stop. They used 
 
 in the house death as a pretext. Now they must stop.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BELL: This is a woman of course who'd buried her grandson just the day before. So there is a sense that perhaps those words will have carried some 
 
 weight. Still, authorities are taking no chances Eleni. There remains will remain a huge deployment of police forces tonight and over the coming days 
 
 to try and ensure that that calm we seem to see return somewhat to the streets of France remains and continues.
 
Also, as you mentioned that political determination to get to the bottom of this that procedure that will be launched to try and understand exactly 
 
 what the root causes of all this anger were and in the meantime beyond that meeting with parliamentary leaders tonight Emmanuel Macron will be meeting 
 
 with the leaders of 220 towns and communes here in France the Mayors who've been dealing firsthand with the violence of what has been nearly a week.
 
It will be a week tomorrow morning Eleni that young Nahel was killed in that brutal police car stop. The question is if that will be the end of the 
 
 violence or whether this continues for some time longer, Eleni?
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
GIOKOS: Yes. And the consequences have been quite extraordinary. I mean, we've seen the impact on infrastructure. We've seen what it's been doing to 
 
 social fabric. But frankly, from a political perspective, Macron does have work to do. They're launching this procedure to figure out the root cause 
 
 of this, but perhaps it extends far, far further.
 
I mean, if you look at the protest action, which we've had you on so much talking about over the past few months. What happens from a political 
 
 perspective here?
 
BELL: Well, there's going to be a determined effort to look at the question of police violence of race in France, which of course, as we've been 
 
 speaking about these last few days is so difficult to talk about, simply because of the laws that are aimed for secularism, considers all the French 
 
 are equal before the law.
 
But in fact, have prevented over the years whenever there have been incidents like this, of police brutality, and allegations of systemic 
 
 racism, have made it very difficult for them to investigate, it's very difficult even for politicians to speak about, since the culture also 
 
 forbids it.
 
And yet, that is exactly what they're going to have to do if they want to get to the end and to the bottom of this anger. So challenge for the French 
 
 government in there is logistically, of course, with any continuation of the violence would mean the Tour de France arrives. Today in the country 
 
 crossing over the Spanish border. There is, of course, the start of the summer season, the hope that tourism will pick up again, despite the images 
 
 the last few days.
 
The Paris Olympics that are being planned for next year, there are all kinds of reasons that French political class need to get order back to the 
 
 streets of France, hence the urgency with which they're tackling it. But I think one shouldn't underestimate just how difficult it's going to be.
 
Also, Eleni, I would add, getting the confidence of the people that were speaking about in the neighborhoods and in suburbs like this one, getting 
 
 that back, retaining or regaining, or gaining perhaps for the first time, so the confidence of some of those young people who've been protesting.
 
And I think it's also worth bearing in mind that we're talking about the extremely young. The French interior minister made the point that of the 
 
 2000 detained at one point over the last few days, the average age was just 17.
 
And it is to that part of the population in the outskirts of Paris and other French cities in some of the least well off neighborhoods, and some 
 
 of the youngest that they're going to have to try and make some sense in terms of what's likely to change, Eleni.
 
GIOKOS: Melissa Bell, thank you so much. Well, the unrest has started to impact France's vital tourism industry; hotels have seen cancellations and 
 
 retailers have been vandalized. Even so some tourists in the heart of Paris aren't letting the turmoil affect their plans. Michael Holmes has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Peak tourist season in France for many visitors the sights of fiery and at times violent protests 
 
 around the country over the fatal shooting of a teenager by police might make them worry about their itinerary.
 
But protesters have largely left the most themed attractions in Paris alone, though some were dispersed from the Place de la Concorde on Friday. 
 
 This couple from the U.S. says, they knew about the protests but didn't change their plans. 
 
DEROL, AMERICAN TOURIST: It's unfortunate what happened, but --
 
MIRIAM, AMERICAN TOURIST: -- decides to come.
 
DEROL: We have to continue on that.
 
MIRIAM: We have confidence in -- -
 
DEROL: We have confidence and my French countrymen to take care of the situation.
 
HOLMES (voice over): Another tourist from Chicago says her trip is still going as planned. But the anger on the streets here remind her of problems 
 
 back home.
 
JACQUELINE BAUGHMEND, AMERICAN TOURIST: So far we haven't seen like the rioting and the cars on fire and such. But we also had that in the United 
 
 States back in 2021 with George Floyd, so we live in Chicago and there was a lot of that there. So we've already experienced it.
 
HOLMES (voice over): Many places that cater to tourists say they are worried not only about security, but about the economic impact of the 
 
 protests. One, two bus driver says he feels bad for the tourists who have come for a vacation that says it's also hard on the people who are just 
 
 trying to work.
 
The country's main association for hospitality workers says many of its hotel members have seen an increase in the number of cancellations of 
 
 reservations. The French Retail Federation is also calling for more police to stop stores being vandalized.
 
But for the most part central Paris has been unscathed with some exceptions like when police say protesters looted stores on the Rue de Rivoli and 
 
 damaged a shopping mall. There was also increased security along the -- with police carrying out spot checks in the area.
 
In the port city of Marseille where some of the countries worst violence happened. A bus carrying Chinese tourists was attacked during a protest 
 
 causing minor injuries to some passengers.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
China's Consulate General has lodged an official complaint and called on the French authorities to keep their citizens and property safe. Back in 
 
 the French capital, some tourist's say they're unfazed by it all and making the best of their trip. It is after all, still Paris.
 
CLAIRE, BRITISH TOURIST: We checked out the news we think it's absolutely fine. There's so many things going on in the world. If you listened to 
 
 everything you'd never travel.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS: Right. Well CNN's Michael Holmes reporting there for us. Ahead on "Connect the World" what the U.S. Treasury Secretary hopes to accomplish on 
 
 an important visit to Beijing this week. And new moves from the world's biggest exporter of crude oil, why the global market is keeping a close eye 
 
 on Saudi Arabia, we'll explain why after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Welcome back to "Connect the World". I'm Eleni Giokos in Dubai; these are your headlines this hour. The Israeli military operation in Jenin 
 
 city and refugee camp is the largest in more than 20 years. That's what an Israeli military sources telling CNN.
 
The Palestinian health ministry says at least eight people have been killed in the ongoing West Bank rate. As French president Emmanuel Macron tries to 
 
 ease tensions after nationwide protests, hundreds gathered in a Paris suburb in March on solidarity.
 
For a local mayor whose house was attacked and uneasy calm seems to have settled in France after the police shooting of a teenager set off six days 
 
 of riots. Ukraine says it is gaining new ground around the embattled city of Bakhmut. A defense official says forces have retaken around 37 square 
 
 kilometers over the past week.
 
This as Kyiv says Russia fired 17 drones into Ukraine overnight, most of which were shut down. Now the Biden Administration is making another effort 
 
 to smooth over ties with China Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen heads to Beijing this week. The strip coming two weeks after President Joe Biden 
 
 compared Chinese President Xi Jinping to a dictator. Anna Coren has the details for us.
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The U.S. Treasury Secretary will be heading to Beijing later this week to further improve relations between the two 
 
 superpowers. It comes two weeks after the successful visit to China by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken to reestablish dialogue. Janet Yellen is 
 
 expected to meet with her Chinese counterpart and other high ranking officials for what we are hearing will be constructive and frank 
 
 conversations.
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
But like with Lincoln's trip, officials say they are not expecting any significant breakthroughs. She is not expected to meet with Chinese 
 
 President Xi Jinping. Yellen has long signaled the Biden Administration's desire to improve communications with the Chinese and lower the temperature 
 
 between the world's two largest economies, which are deeply entwined.
 
Back in April while giving testimony before Congress, she stressed the importance of maintaining ties with China, and said that decoupling would 
 
 be a big mistake. And last month at the Paris finance summit on stage with Chinese Premier Li Qiang, she said, as the world's two largest economies, 
 
 we also have a responsibility to work together on global issues.
 
It is something the world expects of us. Yellen strip comes at a time of heightened uncertainty for the global economy. China is struggling to 
 
 reboot its economy post COVID following a slew of poor economic data, while the U.S. is trying to contain inflation and avoid recession.
 
Global challenges and mutual areas of concern will no doubt be on the agenda, but the airing of grievances is also a priority. The U.S. has 
 
 imposed sweeping restrictions on China's access to advanced technology, specifically semiconductor technology, citing national security threats to 
 
 the U.S.
 
While the U.S. is concerned about the scope of China's new counter espionage law, and the challenges it could present for foreign companies, 
 
 we know that Yellen will be meeting with American companies operating in China.
 
There certainly will be a lot to discuss during her three day visit. But at the end of the day, there's $700 billion in trade between the U.S. and 
 
 China each year. And both countries need each other. Anna Coren, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
GIOKOS: Saudi Arabia and Russia say they're making additional cuts to the oil supply. This comes as the global economic slowdown hangs over the 
 
 outlook for energy demand. Here's how the major oil benchmarks are faring right now. As you can see, they're up slightly, Brent crude sitting at just 
 
 over $75 a barrel, WTI crude at 70.
 
We're seeing actually a 40 percent rise since March of last year. And that's when they hit a 14 year high in the wake of Russia's full scale 
 
 invasion of Ukraine. CNN's Anna Stewart is tracking all of us, for us. Anna, great to have you on!
 
I mean, we always look at these oil prices. And we ask ourselves, what is that sweet spot that make sense for oil producers? And of course, the 
 
 balancing act of the never ending balancing act between supply and demand. How long are these cuts going to last? And how big are they?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Well, the latest cuts are for the month of August. And they're really sizable, you know. 1 million barrels a day from 
 
 Saudi Arabia, half a million barrels a day from Russia. But look at the oil prices still trading around $75 a barrel. You ask what the sweet spot is, 
 
 for Saudi Arabia is $81 a barrel in terms of being able to balance the budget that's according to the IMF.
 
So you have to question why aren't these persistent cuts and hefty cuts, particularly from Saudi Arabia paying off. Why aren't they being rewarded 
 
 with a higher oil price? Now part of that might just be the global outlook in terms of an economic slowdown.
 
Part of it might be the market doesn't actually believe some of the cuts that are announced particularly from Russia, which also had an ounce of 
 
 500,000 barrels a day cut back in March. But in March and April, they overshot their target quite considerably, as well.
 
So I think there will be some skepticism in the market as to whether all of the oil producers will actually deliver on the cuts that they have 
 
 promised. And for Russia, you've got to remember given the number of bands restrictions, the g7 oil price cap in terms of trade. For them, there's 
 
 perhaps less of an incentive to take oil off the market.
 
Currently, euros oil, the Russian oil is trading at a hefty discount around $57 a barrel. However, to play nice and to keep tensions within the OPEC 
 
 plus group where they need to be, I think Russia does need to have to have some sort of deliverance on the cuts that they are promising to ease 
 
 potential tensions, I think with Saudi Arabia, Eleni.
 
GIOKOS: All right. Anna Stewart for us, thank you so much. Well make some food for thought. In the beginning there was the buffalo grazing the land 
 
 and now a film maker and professor shows us the lessons they can teach to help save the Earth when we return.
 
And bringing the final frontier a little closer to home, we hear from the band known as the Sultan of Space, the pioneering Emirati astronaut, Sultan 
 
 Al Neyadi, that's coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
GIOKOS: Cows and other livestock have been major contributors to carbon emissions that warm up our planet. But now some scientists are saying that 
 
 they can be part of the solution to combat climate change. Chief Climate Correspondent Bill Weir explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): In the beginning was the buffalo. Tens of millions of them are wandering the land, munching wild 
 
 grasses and using poop and hooves to create rich fertile soil up to 15 feet deep.
 
Look at this. But since Americans replaced buffalo with cows, generations of fertilizers and pesticides, tilling and overgrazing have turned much of 
 
 that nutrient rich soil into lifeless dirt. But not on farms, where they graze cows, just like wild buffalo.
 
PETER BYCK, FILMMAKER/ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR: Well, so adaptive multi-paddock grazing amp grazing is a way that mimics the way bison have 
 
 moved across the Great Plains. And so it's really about the animals hit an area really hard. And then they leave it for a long time.
 
WEIR (voice over): Peter Byck is a Professor at Arizona State University. And he believes that if enough beef and dairy operations copy this simple 
 
 hack, cattle could actually become an ally in the fight against climate change.
 
BYCK: I anticipate we'll get a lot of pushback. Because people are not thinking that cows can be a part of the solution.
 
WEIR (on camera): Not only are you going against the grain of environmentalists who think meat is evil.
 
BYCK: Yes.
 
WEIR (on camera): For lots of reasons.
 
BYCK: Yes.
 
WEIR (on camera): You took money from McDonald's for this.
 
BYCK: Yes, I asked for money from McDonald's for this. I wanted to go to big companies because if they don't change, we don't get there.
 
WEIR (voice over): For his Docu series Roots So Deep, you can see the devil down there. Byck assembled a team of scientists.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're really interested in insects that live in poop.
 
WEIR (voice over): Experts and bugs and birds.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
WEIR (voice over): Cows, soils and carbon. They spent years comparing five sets of neighboring farms in the southeast. On one side, traditional 
 
 grazers who let cows roam one big field for months at a time and often cut fertilized grass for hay. On the other side, camp grazers who never mow or 
 
 fertilize.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You open the gate. They go through; it takes five minutes to roll up a wire.
 
WEIR (voice over): And with a single line of electrical fence move their cows from one patch of high grass to the next.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Not smelling fence. This is how easy it is Tater.
 
WEIR (voice over): While their science is yet to be published and peer reviewed, Byck says early data has found amp farms pulling down up to four 
 
 times the carbon. While holding 25 percent more microbes, three times the bird life and twice as much rain per hour.
 
BYCK: If it's a 1000 acre farm, it's 54 million gallons of water. That's now washing your soil away versus soaking into your land.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Wow, look at this grass.
 
WEIR (voice over): But this is also a human experiment to see whether data and respectful discussion can change hearts and minds.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This was grazed about 40 days ago. And this hadn't been fertilized in 12 years.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Awesome.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And when we got out of spending money on fertilizer, it was huge. And I didn't think they'd ever happened.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is such a stress relief. We just don't worry about a lot of it anymore.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And they you don't even fertilize when you plant your rag, right?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Awesome. It sounds crazy. But it isn't letting Mother Nature do the work.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would it be an interesting thing if you didn't have to pay for fertilizer?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, that'd be wonderful.
 
WEIR (voice over): Curtis Spangler is one of the conventional farmers in Roots So Deep, and he says his mind was changed when he realized he now has 
 
 a way to double his herd and quit his second off farm job.
 
CURTIS SPANGLER, FARMER: And right now we have to dump thousands of dollars in the nitrogen every year that really if we just change a couple things 
 
 might be able to save that money to put it toward other resources.
 
WEIR (on camera): Is that something you're committed to doing now as a result of this project?
 
SPANGLER: Yes, we're really looking and seeing the benefits of it and how we can work it.
 
WEIR (voice over): So as we hit the height of grilling season, a little food for thought.
 
BYCK: There is ways to produce meat that is not good for the planet. And there's ways to produce meat that's really good for the planet. And that's 
 
 the nuance that's been missing.
 
WEIR (voice over): Bill Weir, CNN, Jasper, Tennessee.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)	
 
GIOKOS: Right. Let's get you up to speed on some other stories that are on our radar right now. Iran state media is reporting that Tehran isn't 
 
 sending its new ambassador to Sweden, Stockholm. That's after a copy of the Muslim holy book was burned in the Swedish capital last week.
 
Now it's sparked angry protests across the Muslim world. Sweden cause Wednesday's Quran-burning by a lone protester free speech. Actor Kevin 
 
 Spacey returned to court today in London as his sex offenses trial continues. The first of four alleged victims testified Spacey is charged 
 
 with 12 offenses including sexual assault and forcing a person to engage in sexual activity without consent. He denies the allegations.
 
Four people were injured in an explosion and fire in downtown Tokyo on Monday. It happened in a restaurant area of the busy Shimbashi District and 
 
 drew dozens of fire trucks to the scene. Police are investigating the cause of the incident. And coming up --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEYADI: In a zero gravity we just float, we are literally in like free float.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: And we'll hear from the Sultan of Space about life aboard the International Space Station.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Now for a segment that's out of this world. Regular viewers of the show will know that the United Arab Emirates has been building an 
 
 impressive space industry. The Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Center in Dubai has launched several satellites and even a probe to Mars.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
This year the astronaut Sultan Al Neyadi landed on the International Space Station and became the first Arab to perform a spacewalk soon after. My 
 
 colleague Becky Anderson was lucky enough to have a chat with him from the ISS and got a lesson on the Gulf States growing ambitions for the cosmos 
 
 to, take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): International Space Station this is Becky Anderson at the Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Center in Dubai. 
 
 How do you read?
 
NEYADI: And Becky, this is Sultan Al Neyadi from the International Space Station. I have you loud and clear.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Terrific, it is fantastic to be speaking to you today. How are you?
 
NEYADI: I'm doing great, Becky. It's the dream becoming true living on board the International Space Station, it can't be better.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): This is an out of this world interview. Al Neyadi dubbed the Sultan of Space is the first Arab to be deployed on a long term 
 
 mission in the cosmos. He launched to the ISS for a six month mission, in partnership with NASA, and the exploration company, SpaceX.
 
NEYADI: The first time I saw Earth, it was a profound moment. We're flying almost 400 kilometers on top of this planet and you see everything you see 
 
 the mountains and the forests and the desert and everything that you know of. And it's really great to see this magnificent planet.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Sultan, show me around that looks like a really busy environment that you're in. So just explain where you are, and what this 
 
 all means as you float upside down.
 
NEYADI: So on the first month here, Becky, we had a cargo mission, it was full of science. So we had a lot of scientific experiments. We tested 
 
 medication, we tested technologies, we tested a lot of things that we are maybe testing for the first time and it's a cutting edge technology.
 
So I was sequencing DNAs, I was applying some medication to heart tissues. And on top of that we are subjects ourselves. So we have experiments and 
 
 sensors, just running on our bodies throughout the mission to be able to understand how the microgravity is affecting the human body when we think 
 
 about going back to the moon or further into space to Mars and so on.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Apart from the scientific experiments, Al Neyadi spends his days making repairs both inside and outside the space station.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Emirati astronaut Sultan Al Neyadi has -- crew up portion of the Quest airlock.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Tell me about the spacewalk Sultan, amazing or terrifying as an experience?
 
NEYADI: Both and actually, the name is spacewalk, but we don't walk, we use our hands. So we need to have a very strong forearm to be able to move from 
 
 one place to another. So it was amazing. It was seven hours continuous. I didn't feel it because I was really focusing into the mission.
 
And it was really, really great feeling just to see that you are floating in a spacesuit. It's just like a small spacecraft. They provide oxygen and 
 
 co2 scrubbing and cooling. And what is preventing you from dying is just like a small layer of glass.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Tell us how do you exercise and give us some examples of living in zero gravity.
 
NEYADI: In zero gravity, we just float; we are literally in like free float. We don't move a lot. So it is important to keep our muscles working, 
 
 we have a treadmill; we use bungees to tie ourselves to be able to run. If we run without any bungees we'll be just like floating like this.
 
And we have another resistant device which is simulating weights and we use vacuum cylinder to simulate the weight and work out just simulating lifting 
 
 dumbbells and so on.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): And Al Neyadi says he uses special restraints to keep him from floating around while he's asleep. The space station orbits 
 
 the Earth every 90 minutes. That means 16 sunrises and sunsets, which can play havoc with an astronaut circadian rhythm and for a practicing Muslim 
 
 Al Neyadi says it would also make fasting during Muslim festivals tricky.
 
NEYADI: Becky, I will say if I'm going to fast depending on the sunrise and sunset, I'll be cheating. So I'll be maybe eating every 45 minutes, so that 
 
 is not applicable.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
I'm traveling now Becky, and I think I am under the description of a traveler, so fasting is not compulsory now.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): How about celebrating Eid?
 
NEYADI: Yes, absolutely. Maybe you've seen my first Eid greeting. So I brought my companion Sohail who's always with me, and I made him wear a 
 
 Kandura, the UAE traditional cloth. Sohail is without the Kandura today. But anyway, that might be doing the same. I'll wear my Kandura, Sohail will 
 
 wear his Kandura and we'll send some greetings.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Al Neyadi launched in March with two NASA astronauts, and one Russian cosmonaut in what is a transnational mission.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): How do you get on?
 
NEYADI: So it's from the name, it's called the International Space Station, and it's collaboration between multi-national agencies. So we all practice 
 
 and train together as a crew. I tried to teach my crew members some Arabic words, but I'm failing to heart.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Do you guys talk about politics? Or do you just get on with what you're supposed to be doing out there?
 
NEYADI: I would say we have really hot topics and mostly talking about sports and our favorites, let's say things that we want to do when we back 
 
 to Earth. But honestly, we try to avoid any politics or anything that might interfere with our work.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Question from one of our viewers. Have you seen any aliens up there?
 
NEYADI: Not yet, but everybody thinks that Sohail is an alien. So if he's an alien, then yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Station, this is Houston, ACR that concludes the event.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thanks, Houston.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you to Becky Anderson.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Al Neyadi's mission is just the latest milestone in the UAE's exploration strategy.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Sultan Al Neyadi, ladies and gentlemen, wow.
 
SALEM AL MARRI, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF MBRSC: Probably enjoyed that?
 
ANDERSON (on camera): It was fantastic.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Salam Al Marri is the Director General of the MBRSC, the incubator for the UAE's National Space Program. Its crowning 
 
 achievement to date came in 2021, with the hope probe, the first Arab mission to Mars.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): The UAE has said it wants to see some habitation on Mars by 2170. Is that realistic?
 
MARRI: If you can send a rover to the moon, you can eventually send rovers to Mars. And then eventually you can send other technology that allows 
 
 humans to live. And we can be part of that. I mean, our objective is always to try and do these exciting projects that really put the UAE in the 
 
 forefront of exploration.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Lofty ambitions, but in a fast paced International Space Race, where superpowers like the U.S. and China are competing, a 
 
 strategic vision is key. Al Marri explain explains that the investment in space is not just about curiosity. It's part of a wider plan to build the 
 
 UAE's post oil economy, he says.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): What are we going to see and hear?
 
MARRI: And now we're going into the really exciting part, which is really our labs. So this is where the magic happens, where the engineers come and 
 
 build the satellites, assemble them, test them.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Established in 2006, MBRSC launched its first satellite in 2009. And the first fully Emirati built orbital in 2018.
 
MARRI: Now we're all dressed up in PPE just to protect the satellites and technology from anything. You imagine a piece of dust on a satellite or on 
 
 a lens, you can just wipe it off on the ground, you can't do that in space. So we'll close the door, we get about a 30 second air showers; you see get 
 
 stronger, there's pressure in the room, all of the dust will go out.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Imaging satellites already track things like urban growth and environmental change, while new generation are set to improve 
 
 things like internet speeds, and the processing of credit card transactions.
 
Part of a burgeoning global space industry worth about a half a trillion dollars now. And it's set to double in size by 2030, which is why this Gulf 
 
 nation is building not just satellites, but an entire industry around them.
 
MARRI: What was beautiful about this satellite is this fully designed by our team here. All of the project management, every single piece you see 
 
 here is designed and project management by our team.
 
But the panels themselves are built within UAE industry, so these panels, this aluminum structure, all of it is built in UAE industry. This is funded 
 
 by the government. It's supervised by the government, but private sector now is building it.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): What do they want out of this new satellite?
 
MARRI: It's all about data. So, I mean if you look at you know, they say the new gold or the new oil is data right. And what this satellite provides 
 
 is data from space about our planet. And you can use that data for many different things.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
ANDERSON (voice over): And that includes data vital in the fight against climate change. Imaging can trace the effects of extreme heat or rising sea 
 
 levels, and allow quicker responses to natural disasters.
 
MARRI: And this is what we do on a daily basis. So we image Earth. Here we have the UAE and we use that for different applications. Some of it can be 
 
 town planning, some of it can be tracking disasters, looking at the change in the coastline.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Monetizing data from space, the new frontier for the UAE, and a very small number of other nations. Becky Anderson, CNN, Dubai.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS: All right, brilliant piece there. And you'll be able to read more about that interview with Sultan on our "Meanwhile in the Middle East 
 
 Newsletter" you can scan the QR code on your screen right now. Well, thank you so very much for joining us for "Connect the World". "One World" with 
 
 Paula Newton is up next. From me Eleni Giokos, take care.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
END