Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israeli Foreign Minister: One Killed, Six Wounded In Tel Aviv Terror Attack; Pentagon Investigating Leak Of Alleged Classified Docs On Ukraine; House GOP Wrestles With Only Holding Razor-Thin Majority; Fox Asks Judge To Bar Reference To January 6 Capitol Attack. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired April 07, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: We continue to follow breaking news out of Israel. The country's foreign ministry office says one person has been killed and several wounded in a terror attack in Tel Aviv. CNN senior international correspondent Fred Pleitgen is in Ashdod just south of Tel Aviv. What are you learning, Fred? 
 
FRED PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi there Fredericka. And this is something that happened in the late evening hours of tonight. And we're getting the first video in of what appears to be the scene of what where all this took place, which is in Tel Aviv on one of the main promenades there near the sea. 
 
And the latest that we have from the Israeli authorities. And of course, right now, this is still very fresh. They're sort of trying to still piece together what exactly happened there. But they appeared initially to be talking about two separate incidents. Where they were speaking about a ramming incident and also a shooting incident. It appears as though possibly that is referring to the same incident, but sort of different parts of it. It appears as though there was a driver who ran several people on that promenade. 
 
We are now hearing that a 30-year-old man was killed in that ramming and several people have been taken to hospitals in the area. Some of them in light conditions, some of them in moderate conditions. There were -- there was talk of some severely injured people in that what the Israelis called attack as well. 
 
But the Israelis are saying at this point in time is that the person who was at the wheel of the car that rammed those people and which later overturned that that person has been, quote, neutralized. Now it's not exactly clear what that means. But it certainly seems as though at least for now the danger in that area the Israelis believe it appears to be over at least the immediate danger. 
 
Nevertheless of course, right now there are a lot of first responders who are on the scene. There's a lot of police on the scene there as well, not only trying to make sense of what's going on. But certainly, of course, also trying to make sure that that area is secured as well. 
 
Obviously, Fredricka, all of this coming at a time of very, very high tensions. As we did have those Israeli strikes throughout the course of the last night in Gaza and in south Lebanon, on an attack today that happened in the West Bank, killing two British Israeli women whose car the Israelis say it was shot at and then crashed. The mother of those two women severely injured in that incident as well. 
 
So, as you can see, a very tense atmosphere. Were at the same time the Israelis and all the others who have been involved in what's been going on here in the past couple of days are trying to stop this from boiling over and becoming something even worse -- Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: all right, horrible chain of events. Fred Pleitgen, thank you so much. 
 
The Pentagon is now investigating apparent leak of classified U.S. and NATO military information about Ukraine. Attention is now turning on how these documents were uploaded to social media. CNN's Natasha Bertrand has new reporting on all of this. Natasha, what are you learning? 
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yes, Fredricka. So, the Pentagon says that it is aware of these social media reports that appear to show these classified documents that came from the U.S. and NATO that detail information about U.S. training and U.S. equipment being provided to the Ukrainians in advance of their counteroffensive there. 
 <br>[15:35:06]
 
Now it is not clear at this point how many of these documents have been released online and the Pentagon has not given us any more indication on how these documents actually ended up there. That is part of what they're looking at right now. 
 
But look, one of the things that they are telling us is that they are cautioning that some of these documents, while largely authentic, we are told, do appear to have been doctored in one such document that was reviewed by CNN. For example, there is an original document that was posted online that appears to show the accurate Pentagon assessment of about 35 to 45,000 Russians killed in action and another one that has been circulating on Russian telegram channels that appears to show that that number being a lot lower around 15,000 to 17,000 Russians killed in action. 
 
So, the Pentagon is really cautioning and officials cautioning that while these documents do appear largely authentic, and it is a very concerning leak, some of them appear to have been doctored. And we should note that the Iranians are pushing back on the idea that any of these documents reveal sensitive information about Ukrainian military plans. With one senior official in the president's office -- President's Zelenskyy's office -- saying that they are a disinformation operation by the Russians. 
 
Now we have not confirmed that independently. But the Pentagon is clearly giving this a very close look, and they're very concerned about what appears to be a leak of very, very sensitive and classified information -- Fredricka. WHITFIELD: All right, very worrisome. Natasha Bertrand, thanks so
 
 much. 
 
House Republican leaders are feeling the pain of having a razor thin majority. Up next, how early struggles are causing anxiety over the big fights to come.
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: CNN has new reporting on the early struggles facing House Republicans with just a razor thin majority. There are some frustrations within the party about how they have spent their time in power so far. CNN's Melanie Zanona joining me now with more on this. Melanie, what are you learning? 
 
MELANIE ZANONA, CNN CAPITOL HILL REPORTER: Yes well, House Republicans are struggling to pass even simple messaging bills. Which does not bode well for their ability to handle must pass items like raising the debt ceiling or funding the government. They did narrowly pass a parent's bill of rights that was something that was the signature piece of legislation, but it only passed because of 10 Democratic absences and very intense whipping effort behind the scenes. 
 
And Republicans are still struggling to deliver another key promise, including securing the border and delivering a balanced budget. 
 
Now, part of the reason for their struggles is their thin majority. They can only lose for Republicans on any given partisan vote. There's also some natural growing pains that come along with being in the new majority. A lot of these members have never served in the majority before. 
 
But there is another factor at play here. And that is that Kevin McCarthy made a number of promises in order to win the speakership that has really complicated his ability to govern. That includes a more open amendment process on the House floor. And while lawmakers have welcomed that addition to the legislative process, they also admit it's been a little messy. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. LISA MCLAIN (R-MI): I think we're holding tight to our commitment to America. And I know it looks a little bit dicey, and it doesn't look real fluid. But remember, we spent the last, you know, two years complaining that we had this top-down authoritative government, right, leadership. And now you're seeing the opposite. Where there is a lot of debate on the floor. You know, you have amendments that we can put on the floor. That's democracy, and I think that's a positive thing. Not real pretty all the time, but I think it's positive. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZANONA: My colleague Annie Grayer interviewed over two dozen Republicans for this story, and we found that there is a lot of anxiety about the challenges ahead. And there is some frustration, particularly among the moderate members about how they have spent their time in power thus far. 
 
Nancy Mace, who represents a swing district told me she's concerned and disappointed with what they have focused on, which is, also included a heavy focus on investigations. 
 
And Tony Gonzalez, who represents a border district said, I don't have time to sit around all day long and drink scotch and bullshit about bills that have no chance of passing into law. 
 
So just a snapshot there of the divisions that are in the conference, which can only get worse in the months ahead, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Melanie Zanona, thank you so much on Capitol Hill. 
 
All right, Fox television network lawyers want a judge to block any mention of the January 6th insurrection during the defamation trial brought on by Dominion Voting Systems. We'll explain why next. 
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Returning to one of our top stories. Oklahoma inmate Richard Glossip could soon see his murder conviction and death row sentence tossed out and a new trial ordered. He has spent a quarter of a century in prison for the death of his boss in 1997. 
 
CNN's Jake Tapper will be all over this story today on "THE LEAD." So, jake, you've been following this case for quite some time. 
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR, THE LEAD: Yes, it's really a fascinating case and quite outrageous in a lot of ways. Because Richard Glossip was never actually accused of killing the individual victim, Barry Van Treese. It was always established that 19-year-old -- then 19-year-old Justin Sneed committed the murder. It's just that he claimed, and he did so in a deal that got him off death row and just into life in prison. He claimed that it was a murder for hire, and he blamed Richard Glossip. 
 
Now, in addition to accusations that the defense did not get all the information that they were entitled to from the prosecution, it's become very clear that Justin Sneed has had some fights with his conscience over the years. And CNN has had a look at some of the letters that he has written to his attorney, including saying things like, quote, there are a lot of things right now that are eating at me, some things I need to clean up. 
 
His attorney appears to suggest that he keep quiet. That the only reason he's not on death row is because of his testimony. And another chance, he said, do I have the choice of recanting my testimony at any time during my life? 
 <br>[15:50:04] So, these are some of the details. And it's also just a reminder of the fact that Richard Glossip has almost been executed three different times. He's avoided that fate. But it's a reminder that the justice system is only as infallible as the people who are part of it. And, of course, executing somebody is really some -- a statement and an action by the state that cannot be reversed in any way. 
 
Who WHITFIELD: All right, we'll be watching. Thanks so much, Jake. 
 
TAPPER: Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD: At the top of the hour. "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper. 
 
All right, for now, let's talk about new developments in the $1.6 billion defamation case against Fox News. Attorneys for the conservative media giants are now asking a judge to prohibit references to the January 6th insurrection and threats made to employees of Dominion Voting Systems. They claim that they're not relevant to the case at hand. But Dominion says that's not true. 
 
Here with us now, CNN's Oliver Darcy. Oliver, jury selection is set for next week. So, what does this request mean potentially for the case moving forward? 
 
OLIVER DARCY, CNN SENIOR MEDIA REPORTER: These are called motions in limine and their common pretrial motions that aim to limit the evidence and the arguments that each side can use at the actual trial. And in these motions -- which were filed earlier, but just became public yesterday -- Fox is moving to limit references to the Capitol attack. I'll read to you what they actually said in their motion. 
 
They said: Any reference to the Capitol attack will only unfairly prejudice the jury against Fox, inflame passions, prevent a fair trial and taint any resulting verdict. 
 
They're also seeking to limit references to the threats that Dominion staffers faced in the wake of the 2020 election. They call those threats excusable, but they say that it could inflame passions again for the jury. 
 
Dominion obviously is objecting to these requests from Fox and they've come out, and they said that the Capitol attack is central. They call it central to their case. And they also said about the threats that Dominion staffers faced. They pointed this out, they said --
 
It also became incredibly difficult for Dominion to retain and win business because would be customers themselves are inundated with death threats, harassment and protests related to Dominion. 
 
Trying to stay there that it's not only our staffers that were threatened after the election, but our customers were potentially threatened because they were in business with us. And so, they want to include these arguments. And I'll just say it too, Fox is trying to say that their emotions are just aimed at bringing this to the core of the case. Dominion obviously disagreeing. 
 
WHITFIELD: But it's a big case. We're talking $1.6 billion defamation case. Is there a possibility of a settlement? 
 
DARCY: There's always the possibility of the settlement, and it could come at any time. It could come during jury selection or even after jury selection, which is set to begin on Thursday of next week. We don't know. Everyone I talked to, the lawyers I've talked to, they're kind of surprised at this point that Fox hasn't settled this. Because it's going to be such an uncomfortable trial for them. 
 
They're going to have their biggest stars Sean Hannity, Tucker, Carlson and others on the stand. And you're also going to have Rupert Murdoch, Lachlan Murdoch, the chief executive, Suzanne Scott. All of these people will be forced to take the witness stand and talk about what they knew about election lies. We know they didn't believe them because of these private text messages that have come out. And why they allowed them to go -- be broadcast on Fox's air. 
 
So, it will be an agonizing 5 to 6-weeks long trial set to begin just later this month. 
 
WHITFIELD: The potential is great to reveal so much more beyond Dominion voting. All right, thank you so much, Oliver Darcy. Great to see you. Have a great holiday weekend. 
 
As Christians mark Good Friday, Pope Francis is still recovering from bronchitis and will sit out this evening's commemoration. More on that next. 
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: April is Autism Awareness month and it's when one of our top CNN heroes works tirelessly to help families who have been impacted by the disability. Watch. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DEBRA VINES, CO-FOUNDER OF THE ANSWER INC.: Children and adults, they live with autism are very repetitive. Everything that they do it's the same way. But when you have a career or parents that have other children and other responsibilities, sometimes it can be very, very, very, very challenging. 
 
VINES: Makes you look handsome.
 
VINES: But as Autism Awareness this month comes, we are in flux with so many calls, of so many families about the what ifs. So, what can I do? Do you have more resources? 
 
We learned from each other. You know, the community should be more aware of the signs and symptoms of autism. And I believe that Autism Awareness month is not just April. Autism is every day in so many families. I would like to see them have more resources within the community, within the park districts, within the businesses. 
 
With the numbers going up every day, we need support every day. So, I encourage families not to give up because you never know when that light bulb is just going to go off. And they're going to hit another milestone, right? 
 
VINES: Everybody good?
 
VINES (voice-over): My advice, help families that have children and adults with disabilities. Be a little bit more supportive and to the world, open up your heart to autism. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: She is extraordinary. And to learn more about Debra and her work, go to CNNheroes.com. 
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
Pope Francis is watching a Way of the Cross event from his private residence at the Vatican. The pontiff canceled his in-person appearance because of extreme cold weather, according to the Vatican statement. Earlier he held the Passion of the Lord services at St. Peter's Basilica ahead of Sunday's Easter mass. 
 
"THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now.