Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Trump In Legal Limbo Ahead Of Iowa Caucuses; Supreme Court Deals Major Blow To Special Counsel, Rejects Request To Fast-Track Trump Immunity Case; Rain, Flood Threats Moves East From California And Arizona; Holiday Travel Period Expected To Be One Of The Busiest Ever. Aired 8-9a ET

Aired December 23, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning and welcome to CNN this morning. It is Saturday, December 23rd. I'm Danny Freeman. Victor Blackwell is off. And first of all, we'll be back next Saturday at 8:00.
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: Thanks for being with us, Danny, and thank you all for being here this morning. I'm Amara Walker. Here's what we're watching for you. 
 
The Supreme Court rejects a request for justices to quickly hear arguments on whether former President Trump has immunity from federal prosecution. We'll walk you through what that means for his legal calendar. 
 
FREEMAN: And the United Nations passes a resolution calling for a pause in fighting between Israel and Hamas. We're live in Tel Aviv with an update on the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. Plus, churches are playing a role housing migrants who are coming across the border in significant numbers. We'll speak to an El Paso Bishop about that and his concerns with harsh rhetoric about immigrants. 
 
WALKER: And a new take on the color purple comes out on Christmas. What is it about the story that resonates with so many people. We're going to discuss next.
 
We promise we will get to the color purple. We'll dive deep. But first politics the Iowa caucuses are just about three weeks away, and Republican front runner Donald Trump just got a major win, at least for now as he battles legal troubles on the campaign trail. On Friday, the Supreme Court issued a one sentence judgment bluntly rejecting Special Counsel Jack Smith's request to fast track arguments on the former president's immunity case. So now both sides will get to appeal and eventual ruling from the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
 
FREEMAN: Trump is also waiting for his Colorado ballot case to fully play out. His team appealed the state Supreme Court's decision to boot him from the ballot based on 14th amendment rules regarding insurrectionists. With all that going on, Trump's got a busy calendar to kick off 2024. So for more on this, let's bring in CNN Legal Analyst, Joey Jackson. 
 
Joey, thank you so much for joining us. I want to start here, Frank question. You tell me what are the odds Trump's name appears on a ballot in Colorado in 2024?
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: So I do think -- good morning to Danny, that there could be many odds in favor of Trump. But I think that we can't look at this in a -- from a political perspective. I guess it has to be because it's an election year. I know the Supreme Court decision in Colorado, Danny has been, you know, really hammered for political reasons, saying it's up to the voters. But at the end of the day, I think it's a sound decision. 
 
Look, you have a state law. The state law indicates that if you engage in insurrection, you cannot be a candidate. And that's what the court ruled. The initially the lower court indicated that there was an insurrection, but said that the statute doesn't apply to him. But if you look at the statute, Danny, it says officers that engage in insurrection, no matter what the office is. The initial court said it didn't apply to the President and the Supreme Court said it did. 
 
So I know people are saying it helps him politically. He's a grievance candidate. He feeds on grievance. But the law is the law. What else would the Supreme Court of Colorado to do? And so now to your question, I think it'll be appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States. And they of course, may have a different way of looking at it a different way of evaluating it. But the decision in essence, indicates if you engage in insurrection, there was a five day bench trial. The five day bench trial before Judge in Colorado says that if you are an insurrection, as you can appear they found the judge did by clear and convincing evidence that he was but still allowed them on the ballot because the said the law didn't apply and the supreme court against as it did. 
 
So at the end of the day, he may still appear because that other Supreme Court of the United States may say so. But I think it's a well-reasoned decision, even if it is being attacked politically and giving him fuel to run. 
 
FREEMAN: Well, Joey, let's stick then with the higher court here and switch to the immunity case, the Supreme Court gave no reason behind their decision on that case involving Jack Smith there. Is there anything we can reliably read from that in terms of why?
 
JACKSON: Yes. I think that the Supreme Court of the United States believes in the process. And quite frankly, I think it's better for America in the event that it goes through the normal procedural channels. Remember what the normal course of events are, Danny. Generally, you have a district court ruling that was really in essence made, right? Judge Chutkan ruling that the immunity clause doesn't protect him. The President of United States is not above the law. He has to answer for his crimes like anyone else. 
 
Then what happens is it would go to a circuit court that is an appellate court and this case would go to the DC appellate court. Jack Smith, the special counsel was trying to circumvent that by getting it straight to the Supreme Court. I think the court concluded maybe because it's a six three majority of conservative justices that people would believe that they would hey side with Trump. No said the court and a one page ruling. I'm reading a lot from excuse me, not one page. One sentence but I think they said we have a process. Let the D.C. Circuit Court evaluate it. Let them draw a conclusion and opinion. We will then if we deem it appropriate, saying the Supreme Court, right, we'll evaluate it at that point. And I think if it goes through those normal channels at the end of the day, the final ruling has more confidence from the American people. And I think that's what we want. And that's what we need. And that's what the process demands. 
 <br>[08:05:23]
 
FREEMAN: Joey, the other Trump World headline this week was Rudy Giuliani declaring bankruptcy. And while I feel like it wasn't necessarily surprising to hear that news, I think it does beg the question, do you think that'll mean he'll be able to get out of paying some of the penalties for some of the lawsuits he's faced?
 
JACKSON: So I do think that that's the practical reality of it, right? The reality is, is that even though the judgment was substantial, right, almost $150 million, does he have the wherewithal to pay that? That's always a concern, not only with Giuliana, Danny, but as it relates to any other litigant. You can get an actual judgment against them, but do they have the ability to pay? 
 
So the first question becomes whether they're judgment proof, meaning, you know, Hey, make it a $200 million judgment. If the individual to whom it applies doesn't have the resources, then the ability to get the money right is obstructed. So here, I think in bankruptcy protection, he'll protect themselves somewhat having said that, while he won't be able to pay all of it, certainly, I think a substantial amount of his resources, not the judgment itself will go to that whether he's in bankruptcy or not.
 
FREEMAN: Joe Jackson, thank you for as always guiding us through that legal wrap. Appreciate it. 
 
This morning, the UN Agency for Palestinian refugees is warning there is no safe place for the people of Gaza. As the IDF announces it's preparing to expand its operation against Hamas into new areas.
 
WALKER: And this comes even as the U.S. has been pressuring Israel to scale back its bombardment and do more to protect civilians. And just yesterday, the UN Security Council passed a resolution calling for humanitarian pauses in the fighting. The US abstained from voting because the resolution did not include a condemnation of Hamas. CNN's Will Ripley is joining us now from Tel Aviv. 
 
Well, let's talk about Israel preparing to expand its offensive. Again, where the people of Gaza expect it to go.
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, that is the million dollar question or maybe the 2 million people question because most of the population right now of Gods around 2 million is displaced. 20,000 of them have died. According to the Hamas controlled health ministry in Gaza, a number backed up as well by the Palestinian health ministry in Ramallah, that death toll rose by 18. We've learned just within the last couple of hours after Israeli artillery started hitting areas in central Gaza. Central Gaza is the new location that Israel is now focusing and planning to focus its expanded military operation after, as they say gaining essentially operational control of the North. 
 
The North has been the area hit hardest by those massive bombs, those 2,000 pound bombs made in the United States that Israel according to a CNN analysis was using by the hundreds in the early days and weeks of this conflict, whether they are still being used whether Israel plans to use them in central Gaza or whether they will shift their military operation to a more streamlined approach to kill Hamas leadership, while trying to minimize civilian casualties. Of course, Israel has said that that's what they've been trying to do all along. They blamed the massive amount of civilian deaths, including thousands of children, and the fact that Hamas has essentially positioned itself in areas, tunnel areas specifically underneath where civilians are sheltering. 
 
And Israel says in their necessity to destroy the Hamas infrastructure, places that they use to launch attacks from for example, they have to use these -- these massive explosives to just get down deep enough to damage the tunnels where the Hamas leadership is located. And while they say that they give people a warning, no matter it's a matter of hours, or maybe a day or two warning to try to pack up and leave. Where are people supposed to go at this point when they've already relocated once or twice or three times or even more people who are likely exhausted, probably, in many cases very, very hungry if not starving, not to mention the fact that we are now in the middle of a very bad weather pattern here where last night we had very heavy rain, wind, thunderstorms, the wind is relentless today. The only reason that I'm not blowing around is because I'm lucky enough to stand under a shelter with protection on either side. 
 
But if I were to step right around the corner, you get blown pretty hard and that wind has been consistent. And when you stand out in it long enough, you start to feel really cold, especially when the rains hitting you. Just imagine what that's like for families that are living outside in the elements and now being told that they have to move again or risk death from yet another airstrike.
 
WALKER: Yes. An awful situation. Anyway, look at it. Will Ripley. Thank you very much. 
 
This just in to CNN new reporting from the New York Times on Vladimir Putin and the war in Ukraine that is ahead. Also President Biden is facing mounting pressure as migrant crossings spike at the southern border. Now some are warning that the situation is near a breaking point. 
 
FREEMAN: Plus, tis the season for holiday travel. We'll take a look at the rush to get those Christmas destinations ahead of the big day.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[08:14:35]
 
WALKER: All right, this just in. The New York Times is reporting that Russian leader Vladimir Putin is signaling that he is open to a ceasefire in Ukraine. Now the report cites two former senior Russian officials close to the Kremlin and American and international officials who have received the message from Putin's and voice. One of the reporters on the byline Anton Trolanovski joins us now from Berlin. He's the Moscow bureau chief for The New York Times. Anton just put this into context for me. How sizable is this development?
 
ANTON TROLANOVSKI, MOSCOW BUREAU CHIEF, NEW YORK TIMES: Well, I think it's certainly a significant development. What we're reporting is that over the last few months, Vladimir Putin has been sending signals to the west and to Ukraine, that he is interested in a deal to freeze the fighting for a ceasefire to freeze the fighting at the current lines. And as you say, we're reporting this both based on sources close to the Kremlin, and also international and American sources who are receiving these messages.
 
WALKER: I do want to point out that our reporting here at CNN back in August, this was according to for U.S. officials, was that Putin was unlikely to change course in the Ukraine war, at least not until before or not until after the 2024 presidential election. So how can we reconcile, I guess, you know, our reporting with -- with yours, it has -- what has changed, I guess, since then.
 
TROLANOVSKI: So I think the most important thing to know is that Putin is really an opportunist. He's a tactician. He looks for openings and -- and for opportunities to get what he wants. In this case, what he sees is a West that's distracted by the war in Gaza. He sees disappointment in Ukraine's counter offensive. He sees the fact that on the ground, things look kind of like a stalemate. And so what -- what he's saying and in this sense, I think this actually doesn't totally contradict what -- what you are reported in August. What he's saying is that he's open to a deal. Because at the end of the day, he's interested in victory and, or what he would be able to describe as a victory to the Russian people. And as we report he -- while being ready to wage war, potentially for years, and while really sending that message publicly that he's committed to this war for the long haul. 
 
At the same time, our sources tell us he does also see the risks to Russia, and to him along war, political risks, economic risks. And so as a result, what we're reporting is that if he -- what he's messaging is that if he were to be offered a deal, where he could get to keep what he has already conquered, he would -- he would potentially accept that. That is the message that he's sending right now. And, of course, that is not something that Ukrainian leaders right now are willing to accept. And it doesn't necessarily mean that he's open to further compromise.
 
FREEMAN: Well, I guess, Anton, my question for you is, is your framing this is potentially a path to victory, I guess, in some sort of sense. But I mean, doesn't a ceasefire? I mean, from everything we've heard from Putin over the past several years, doesn't that show weakness potentially? Are you concerned about that? TROLANOVSKI: Well, that's a really important point. Absolutely. What -- what Putin needs to do is to find a way to show to the Russian people that he has won. But remember, Putin controls the media in Russia. He controls a massive propaganda apparatus. And so what our sources told us over and over, as we were reporting this is that he could actually go to the Russian public right now and say, we have a deal. And we won. We have the land bridge to Crimea. We have shown that, you know, he'll -- he'll say that we have shown that our forces are superior to Western forces, or Western, excuse me to Western equipment. He'll point to Ukraine's struggle in making advances and its counter offensive this past year. 
 
And what he also sees is a Russian public that while supporting the war is not super, super engaged. You know, we quote in the story, one pollster who actually works for the Kremlin in Russia, who said publicly in the fall that only 10% to 15% of Russians are actively supporting the war. So again, I think we're talking about Putin's opportunism here. 
 
WALKER: Fascinating reporting by you at the New York Times that Putin may be quiet. He is quietly signaling he's open to a ceasefire in Ukraine. But of course, we got to highlight the fact that there's no evidence that Ukraine would even be open to this event, especially if it means Putin gets to hold on to the territory that they were able to take. And of course, there's always that the chance that Putin could change his mind depending on what happens on the battlefield. Anton Trolanovski, thank you so much for joining us this morning. Appreciate your reporting. 
 
Well, the Biden administration is facing bipartisan pressure at as more migrants than ever are crossing the U.S. southern border.
 <br>[08:20:04]
 
FREEMAN: Some say the U.S. Mexican border is close to reaching its limit adding a humanitarian crisis. CNN's Kevin Liptak joins us now. Kevin, how is the White House at this point responding to this southern border situation?
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, they really are urgently looking for solutions here in the phrase that you keep hearing from officials is a breaking point when it comes to the border record levels of apprehensions. And the numbers really do tell the story here. In recent days, more than 10,000 people trying to cross the border that is at record levels. And just to put that in context, in late November, a seven day average was around 6,800. So you do see this spike in people trying to cross the southern border. And one thing that makes this different is that this is spread out in a number of different places. It's not all concentrated in one sector. So it is really stretching resources for the American officials who are trying to get a handle on this. And this is certainly a major logistical challenge for the Biden administration. But it's also a political challenge for President Biden. 
 
Certainly this is one of the most intractable issues that every President has to deal with. One of the ways that President Biden is trying to confront this is applying pressure on his Mexican counterpart, the Mexican president. They did speak last week about trying to ramp up enforcement to prevent people from crossing the border into the United States and President Biden also dispatched senior Cabinet officials to travel to Mexico later this week to continue those discussions. 
 
President Biden is also asking Congress for $14 billion to ramp up border enforcement, but that -- that money has been still stalled in these negotiations between Democrats and Republicans. Certainly President Biden, in something of a bind here would certainly everyone seems to agree with this, that the immigration system is broken and needs reform. And certainly that is what you're seeing on the border in these last several days, guys. 
 
WALKER: Yes. Most definitely an intractable issue. As you say, Kevin Liptak, thank you very much. 
 
Joining us now to address the humanitarian crisis along the southern border is Bishop Mark Seitz. He's a Catholic Diocese at the Catholic Diocese of El Paso and Chairman of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops committee on migration. Bishop, good to have you on. First off, just fill us in on -- on what you are seeing happening there at the border.
 
BISHOP MARK J. SEITZ, CATHOLIC DIOCESE OF EL PASO: Well, we are seeing large numbers coming and we somewhat expected it actually because we know that migration is a cyclical reality. There are times that are better for migrants to make the journey than others. And of course, when the heat isn't searing in the desert that gives them a better opportunity. There are many people that are very desperate in -- in the sending countries such as in many parts of Latin America.
 
WALKER: You know, the city's Democratic mayor, Oscar lessor. He recently said in a news conference that El Paso is at a breaking point, is that what you're seeing as well?
 
SEITZ: Well, you know, it's certainly a challenge. There's no question about it. But if I think about last year, for instance, we did. We were surprised by the numbers last year. We had a lot of people on the streets. That isn't the case this year.
 
WALKER: So and why is that you think and -- and then how is the Catholic Church contributing to, you know, the humanitarian efforts there.
 
SEITZ: It's not the case because we have geared up. We have more resources for housing those who are coming through our region. And, for instance, the Catholic Church has five shelters open at this point. And the city's preparing actually to open their shelter. 
 
WALKER: I do want to ask you about this new law that Texas Governor Greg Abbott signed into law that would allow Texas law enforcement officials to arrest migrants and also for the local court system to deport migrants as well. Of course, the criticism is that this state law oversteps the federal government's powers. This law takes effect in March. What are you hearing from the community in terms of the fear that we keep hearing about that's rippling across Latino communities, by the way, which make up what 40% of the state?
 
SEITZ: Right. So certainly, there's a great deal of concern about laws like this. And it's not helpful to have states fighting with the government or the federal government, in this role of receiving immigrants. So it is set out in our constitution as a federal authority, and they need the opportunity to do that. We also -- it's not also helpful to treat those who are coming to our board It is though is there an invading army. They are people who are fleeing to the border and once we recognize that reality and their humanity, then we can begin perhaps to develop responses that will be truly helpful.
 <br>[08:25:16]
 
WALKER: Yes. Tell me more about the humanity you want Americans to see, you know, because we have the Republican frontrunner for 2020 for Donald Trump, you know, who is saying things like, you know, these -- these immigrants are poisoning the blood of our country. He's promising to carry out the largest domestic deportation operation and American history. These are his words. And I understand that the narrative that you're seeing out there that has been pushed out there, not only is it false, but you say it saddens you.
 
SEITZ: It certainly does. And it's such a repeat of the not the better moments in our country's history, because as everyone should know, we are his country that is uniquely made up of immigrants. And we've seen this kind of rhetoric through our history, sadly, but it's also caught up with times of profound racial discrimination that wasn't only directed towards African-Americans, although they're the most terrible example in a sense of, of that treatment we gave to other people. It was directed towards the Irish. Directed towards the Italians, towards the Polish, towards the German. 
 
And if you look back in those times in our history, you will see those moments. At the same time, when we follow that better lights, exemplified by the Statue of Liberty, we were able to build up our country with a new energy that immigrants bring.
 
WALKER: Bishop Mark Seitz, we're going to have to leave it there. But thank you for the conversation. 
 
FREEMAN: Coming up next, some heavy rain could throw a wrench in the holiday plans of millions. We'll take a look at the Christmas weekend forecast coming up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[08:31:03]
 
WALKER: The atmospheric river that unleashed heavy rains and flooding in California and Arizona this week is on the move eastward today.
 
FREEMAN: There's also a chance of a mountain snow in the southern Rockies and central plains heading into a busy holiday weekend. Here to break it all down for us meteorologist Chad Myers. Good morning, Chad. That sounds like a white Christmas maybe for some. CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: For some, absolutely. I mean, if you're going to go to the mountains, especially if you're going to ski in Colorado all the way down even toward New Mexico. There will be snow on the ground there. And then a little bit trying to wrap in late Sunday night even for Kansas City. But this is a rain event. Yes, there are some winter weather advisories. But the weather in the warmth is so we're talking 50s for temperatures in the plains, no chance of snow there. 
 
There will be some heavy rainfall across parts of the plains all the way down to Houston that could slow things, some things down. The only real delays I'm seeing right now out of Orlando, we're seeing just 10 to 15 minute delays. There are no real weather to talk about there. So only 40 airplanes so far today have been canceled. And that's out of thousands. So we'll take 40. 
 
There's your snow on the planes coming in through Denver and then around through parts of the Dakotas into parts of Minnesota. But it's the heavy rainfall down to the south. That's where we could see the slowdown. It's not a great weekend to have Christmas presents that are forward of the outside, especially across the eastern part of the U.S. anywhere from about St. Louis down to Atlanta going to be very heavy rainfall. The snow is there, but not for many that really wanted, not for the millions that really want some snow across parts of the Northeast. 
 
Now I know if you have to drive in it, you don't want the snow so I get both sides of all that. The kids want the snow. Pretty good weather for today couldn't see a delay out of Denver. But other than that, we are seeing airports do very, very well this afternoon and into tomorrow, things look very good as well. Not seeing the big nightmare with planes, trains and automobiles and everybody taking 20 hours to go 50 miles in the snow. That's just not forecast for this weekend. Good news.
 
WALKER: And no meltdown. Remember last year Southwest Airlines. Fingers crossed.
 
MYERS: Right. Well, I can't guarantee computers but if the weather's not good the problem. 
 
WALKER: Yes, yes. 
 
FREEMAN: And some adults wants to know, too. Some adults like snow not just the kids. 
 
WALKER: Yes. Do you ski? 
 
FREEMAN: Not well.
 
WALKER: Did you just do snow angels? 
 
FREEMAN: Exactly. 
 
WALKER: And you just tumbled down the mountain like I do. I can barely ski to. Yes. FREEMAN: Chad Myers, thank you very much. Appreciate it. 
 
MYERS: You're welcome. 
 
FREEMAN: And AAA predicts that we just started one of the busiest holiday travel periods in U.S. history. So despite that good forecast, you should get ready for the possibility of at least a long wait at the airport or on the highway. So for more on this, let's get right over to Clint Henderson. You know him as the points guy. 
 
So you heard that forecast, Clint. But from your perspective, how is air travel this year shaping up last year?
 
CLINT HENDERSON, MANAGING EDITOR, THE POINTS GUY: Well, I think the Biden administration and Pete Buda judge specifically will be very happy with this Christmas holiday so far. I think it really helps the Mother Nature's not dealt us a big snowstorm. But things have been working remarkably smoothly. I would say especially compared to this time last year when I was on CNN telling you guys about thousands of delayed and canceled flights. So the airlines have made moves to make things run more smoothly. I think they're feeling the pressure from the White House from the federal government that's clearly not messing around anymore. And I think they put some things in place that are helping things run more smoothly. 
 
But they've also opened airspace, military airspace, et cetera, et cetera, to try to get ahead of any issues that crop up. And I will say when things have happened this year, airlines have recovered much more quickly. So it's all moving in the right direction. We have not had a severe test like we did last year, where you know, there was a huge winter snow and ice storm. So that's helped too, but so far so good with the holiday travels period.
 
FREEMAN: And just personally, Clint. I flew from Logan to Atlanta, from Boston to Atlanta yesterday and we arrived early, which again, a couple days before Christmas I never would have thought of. I am curious though, because you mentioned the federal government in that pressure. Do you really believe that after lawmakers you know took action last year and the federal government that the airlines really took like you? Do you feel you saw the action from the airlines planning and investing like they said they would?
 <br>[08:35:16]
 
HENDERSON: Absolutely. It's very clear from airlines like Southwest that they were going to get ahead of this for this year. They've invested over a billion dollars new technology, new trainings. If hired up, all the airlines are basically staff to where they need to be compared to last year when there was still not enough pilots. Not enough flight attendants, not enough airport workers, things were in much better shape. 
 
I will say the one area that we've been so concerned about this year is a severe shortage of air traffic controllers. The federal government is working to solve that problem. But that is still a huge problem. But partly what they've done to compensate is to open up the airspace from some military bases to try to help with traffic flow. So everyone's working in concert right now. But they still have not had that test that I mentioned, which is a severe storm that starts to sort of snowball, no pun intended to start rolling down the hill.
 
FREEMAN: All right, Clint, one last thing. As for someone who is a frequent flyer in the CNN family, I know that the frequent flyer programs, they've been under heavy scrutiny over the course of the year, I'm curious your perspective as the points guy, how could this help consumers potentially in the long run?
 
HENDERSON: So the federal government is snooping around to say the least into all aspects of air travel right now. And I think the airlines are feeling it, that they propose rules that would compensate passengers in the event of future delays and cancellations. Here's the deal. The airlines are very invested in avoiding something like they have in Europe, EU261, that forces compensation for long delays and cancellations after last year's meltdown. The airlines were very worried and they should have been that there was going to be some kind of legislation passed that would force compensation. So everyone's sort of like tiptoeing around this trying to avoid really strong laws, which political pressure is building on and if we had another meltdown, that political pressure may have ramped up even further.
 
FREEMAN: Clint Henderson, crossing our fingers, the holiday travel keeps as smooth as has been so far. Appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
WALKER: We're not using the word meltdown anymore for the rest of the show, because we're not putting it out there in the ether. 
 
FREEMAN: Exactly. 
 
WALKER: Still, like the reboot of the color purple hits theaters on Christmas day and this story is resonating just as it did nearly 40 years ago, we will discuss its enduring legacy next
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[08:43:16]
 
FREEMAN: Just incredible. The film is a production of Warner Brother's pictures which like CNN is part of Warner Brother's discovery and it comes out on Christmas Day. We want to talk all about it for that. Joining us now is the Nicquel Terry Ellis. Thank you so much for joining us. Tell me why you think this movie still resonates 40 years later.
 
NICQUEL TERRY ELLIS, CNN SENIOR WRITER RACE AND EQUALITY: The Color Purple is a cultural classic. It's a timeless film. It's a cornerstone for black culture. It's a story of overcoming trauma, the bonds of sisterhood, enduring family love, resilience, all things that resonate within the black community. It's also a draw for black women who see themselves in the characters. Whether it's Celia, who overcomes abuse and domestic violence and sexual violence or Sophia with her courageous and strong spirit. Black women see themselves in these characters. And they come together in a show of strength, comfort, sisterhood, and it's so inspiring for a lot of audiences. WALKER: You know, the executive producer Scott Sanders, Nicquel, he
 
 talked about the decision to adapt the film into a musical and obviously his goal is to reach a newer generation that may not be familiar with the work. Here's what he said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SCOTT SANDERS, AWARD-WINNING PRODUCER OF "THE COLOR PURPLE": As I was walking around in the world five, six, seven years ago, and talking to Oprah, about how important this Alice's story has been to the world. And there's a new generation of fans who may not be familiar with it. It's one of the most uplifting stories I've ever read. So knowing that cinema is the most powerful medium in the world in terms of being able to tell a story on a worldwide basis, added a price point that people can afford. It felt to me like we should think about really exploring Alice Walker's book and store Read through musical form in the cinema.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 <br>[08:45:05]
 
WALKER: You know, just being on social media. It's been emotional just as you know, see what people have been saying about how it's really touched them? What is the impact expect it to be.
 
ELLIS: So it's going to be a huge impact. People are literally buying out theaters. We have church groups, friendship groups, families, social clubs coming together on Christmas day to see it and they're wearing purple. That's the color the color purple. There's one woman I spoke with in Alabama who has an hope year that she went did for her entire family to come together for generations are coming together to watch the movie together. So let me just so beautiful, and so joyous to see everyone coming together on Christmas state to see this movie 40 years later.
 
WALKER: And I wonder what the conversations are going to be like after right just you know, people opening up and kind of coming together on you know, over this movie? 
 
FREEMAN: No, absolutely. Especially because you know, Nicquel, your senior writer you write about race inequality in this country. And this novel in particular has been, as I understand that a source of -- of healing from trauma, especially for women of color. Explain that for me. 
 
ELLIS: Yes. The character has experienced a lot of trauma. I mean, the domestic violence is CLE. Celia went through the abuse that she experienced, I mean, but she still was able to overcome that, you know, in spite of all of the eyes that were against her in the movie, I think it's just inspiring for a lot of women, black women to see her overcome this. 
 
WALKER: You were able to see a preview right now. 
 
ELLIS: No, I have not. 
 
WALKER: Okay. Okay. Okay. 
 
ELLIS: But I'm going next week. Yes, yes. 
 
FREEMAN: You have your tickets already. 
 
WALKER: Okay. (Inaudible) I ask you. 
 
ELLIS: Yes. And I'm excited. I can't wait.
 
WALKER: Wow. Well, I can't either, because I order -- I just ordered the books so I want to read the book first. And then, I'll head over to the theaters and then watch the original as well. Nicquel Terry Ellis, thank you so much. 
 
ELLIS: Thank you.
 
FREEMAN: Thank you. Still to come. A genetic test to help identify if someone is at risk of developing opioid use disorder has been approved by the FDA. We're going to take a closer look next. Plus coming up tomorrow on a special state of the union look back at climate change this year and see what to expect in the years ahead. Former Vice President Al Gore and billionaire investor, Ray Dalio (ph) join Jake Tapper with how we can all make a difference. State of the Union climate warning airs tomorrow morning at 9:00.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[08:51:26]
 
WALKER: The FDA has just approved the first genetic test to help identify whether someone has an increased risk of developing opioid use disorder. 
 
FREEMAN: CNN health reporter Jacqueline Howard tells us who this test is for and how it works.
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: This test called Avertd uses DNA to assess someone's risk it's for adults 18 and older who've never been exposed to opioid pain medication, not patients already being treated for chronic pain. It's intended for patients being considered for a four to 30 day prescription, such as people about to undergo surgery. And the test is given by a healthcare provider by swabbing a patient's cheek. And that sample of DNA is then assessed to see if the patient has a combination of genetic variants that may be associated with an elevated risk of developing opioid use disorder. 
 
But not everyone sees this as a major development. Some experts argue that genetics can be complex and simply asking patients whether they have a family history of addiction might be just as reliable if not a better assessment than this kind of tests. And there's always the risk of a false negative or false positive results. But overall, this is yet another tool intended to help the nation battle the ongoing opioid epidemic. 
 
WALKER: Jacqueline Howard, thank you very much. Still ahead, Florida State was left out of the college football playoff now they want out of the ACC, the latest on the evolving legal battle next. [08:57:25]
 
WALKER: Florida State University's Board of Trustees has taken the first official step toward eventually leaving the Atlantic Coast Conference.
 
FREEMAN: They claim quote, "draconian withdrawal penalties" have tripped schools in the ACC. From on all this Carolyn Manno is here with the morning's Bleacher Report. Hi, Carolyn. 
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Hi guys. Well, this is an unprecedented move. I mean, undefeated Florida State was controversially left out of the college football playoff after winning the ACC championship that made headlines and on Friday they made it clear that they do want to leave the conference. The Board of Trustees voted unanimously to file a lawsuit challenging an agreement that binds the school to elite for the next 12 years with more than a half billion dollars in fees for exiting. 
 
Florida State claims the ACC is long term TV media deal is grossly undervalued and that it puts a school at a disadvantage when compared to rivals in the SEC and the big 10. In the meantime, it was revealed that the leak had proactively filed its own lawsuit against Florida State's board of trustees on Thursday. The ACC claiming that FSU cannot challenge the binding agreement and that any ruling should be determined in North Carolina where the conference headquarters are located. The Florida State saying they want out. 
 
ACC school Georgia Tech squaring off against UCF and the Gasparilla bowl in Tampa last night the Golden Knights came out red hot with a 14 nothing lead on two touchdown passes from John Rhys Plumlee than the yellow jackets settled in, took control of things, tech scoring 27 unanswered behind running back Jamaal Haynes, to set a career high with 128 yards on the ground. That UCS Tamari Henderson coming up with the play of the day. Check this out, Tech's Eric Singleton keep it off the ground but as he rolls over, Henderson takes it from him for the interception Yellow Jackets when the 3017. There are seven more bowl games on tap today. Good day to be cozy on the couch this holiday weekend. 
 
The Golden State Warriors hosting the Washington Wizards in Jordan pools returned to the chase center. While aiming began with a tribute video for pool the game quickly became about his former teammate Steph Curry, the chef who cooked up the season high eight threes, finishing with 30 points seven assists in the 129-118 when hurry the first player in NBA history to put up those numbers in 27 minutes or fewer. 
 
And with Christmas around the corner, Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes in the full spirit of giving, rewarding the linemen that protect him so well with some custom golf carts complete with their names and their jersey numbers. The big boys up front and couldn't wait to take those new toys out for spin in the parking lot around Arrowhead Stadium.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) PATRICK MAHOMES, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS QUARTERBACK: I figured I'd give
 
 them something that I enjoy and I think you all could see from some of the videos they enjoyed it they were going around arrowhead and got a little nervous. It's cool. I'm glad they enjoyed it. And I mean it's part of -- that part of the year and they do a lot for me so I'm going to take care of them as well.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)