Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: The End Of Title 42; CloudChef Debuts New Food Tech Solution. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired May 10, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, hello. And welcome to Wednesday #YourWordWednesday. Follow me @coywire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok and 
 
 put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section of my most recent post. And we`ll choose a winner to work in to tomorrow`s show. Let`s go. 
 
We start today with the end of a controversial border policy. It`s called Title 42. It`s expected to expire tomorrow, May 11, and communities along 
 
 the U.S.-Mexico border are bracing for a surge that`s been months in the making. CNN took video from Mexico`s side of the border yesterday, and a 
 
 source says the U.S. government estimates more than 150,000 people in Mexico alone may be standing by to enter the U.S. when Title 42 expires. 
 
Many politicians, like Texas Governor Greg Abbott, say the situation along the border is already overwhelming. The policy started at the beginning of 
 
 the COVID pandemic, allowing border officials to quickly turn away migrants at the U.S.-Mexico. border over concerns about the virus. Migrants were 
 
 either returned to their home countries or sent back to Mexico. According to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency, authorities have denied 
 
 migrants at the U.S. Southern border more than 2.8 million times since the policy began. 
 
The policy is going away now as the Biden administration is ending the COVID public health emergency. The Department of Homeland Security released 
 
 a six-pillar plan that outlines the department`s operations post Title 42, including setting up additional facilities along the border to process 
 
 migrants. Still, there are many concerns. The House of Representatives are expected to vote tomorrow on Republicans wide ranging border security 
 
 package. The bill would, in part mandate that migrants remain in Mexico while going through the asylum process and beef up security at the southern 
 
 border and restart border wall construction.
 
At the border, migrants are traveling through treacherous conditions at times, including battling extreme heat. Many are looking to enter America 
 
 for a chance for a better life. This week, CNN spoke up with a few migrants on their journey.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  She says they were four days on this train, she says, horrible, really cold. 
 
He says four kids, his wife, four and a half days on the train. 
 
He says, it`s for the American dream. And they`re going to try to cross today.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Now, how to handle the border is a divisive topic. As you can see, there are many concerns to consider. Emily Schmidt is reporting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EMILY SCHMIDT, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Migrant Demario Jones sees crossing the border as a singular mission. 
 
DEMARIO JONES, MIGRANT FROM JAMAICA:  Just want to go to the U.S. to get a work, to change my life and live a good life. 
 
SCHMIDT:  But border communities say an increase in migrants is an exponentially larger problem. 
 
MAYOR DOUG NICHOLLS, (R) YUMA, ARIZONA:  This task is going to be too great.
 
SCHMIDT:  Yuma`s mayor says a month ago, 300 people a day crossed the border near his community. Sunday, he says there were a thousand. 
 
GOV. KATIE HOBBS, (D) ARIZONA:  The federal government is unprepared to meet the demands of the expected influx. 
 
SCHMIDT:  The Governor of Texas launched a border response team because he claims the federal government isn`t doing enough. 
 
GOV. GREG ABBOTT, (R) TEXAS:  While Texas is doing everything possible to try to stop people from crossing the border, at the very same time the 
 
 President of the United States is setting -- putting out the welcome act. 
 
SCHMIDT:  Texas has bused migrants to places like New York City, which now wants to send some to nearby Rockland County, New York. 
 
ED DAY, ROCKLAND COUNTY, EXECUTIVE:  We cannot put the needs of the people who are being sent here ahead of our own residents. 
 
SCHMIDT:  The county executive declared a state of emergency, requiring New York City to cover costs of any migrants. Republicans in the House have put 
 
 forth a bill to extend current policies, but which the White House says would make the situation worse.
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY:  The bill, H.R.2 would be a disaster. For border security and a Christmas morning gift for human 
 
 smugglers. 
 
SCHMIDT:  The bill is scheduled for a vote the same day Title 42 is scheduled to expire, and unlikely to pass the Democratic controlled Senate. 
 
 I`m Emily Schmidt reporting. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  With Title 42 expected to expire tomorrow and the expected surge in border crossings, the Biden administration is making plans to send an 
 
 additional 1500 active-duty troops to the U.S.-Mexico border in anticipation of the influx of migrants. As I mentioned earlier, the federal 
 
 government estimates that more than 150,000 migrants were waiting in shelters and in streets in northern Mexican states bordering the U.S. this 
 
 past weekend alone. Our Rosa Flores has more from the border. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Border communities across the U.S.-Mexico border already seeing a spike in migration, according to community leaders. 
 
 In Brownsville, one respite center went from receiving up to 300 migrants per day two weeks ago to a thousand. In McAllen, from 150 to 400. In Laredo 
 
 from 50 to 250 during the same time period, 25,000 migrants are in immigration custody, according to a Homeland Security official. And total 
 
 migrant encounters on the U.S. Southern border now surpasses 8000 per day. 
 
And this is the scene by the border wall in El Paso where hundreds of people are way to turn themselves into immigration authorities, a flow 
 
 that`s expected to spike once Title 42 expires Thursday. And thousands more are already living on El Paso city streets.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is ground zero for the immigration. 
 
FLORES:  Pastor Timothy Pereya (ph) has been delivering between 900 and 1100 warm meals a day. As migrants here rely on the kindness of strangers 
 
 for everything. 
 
RAUL ORTIZ, DEPUTY CHIEF, U.S. BORDER PATROL:  With respect to the DoD personnel.
 
FLORES:  Border Patrol Chief Raul Ortiz says the 1500 active-duty troops deployed by the Biden administration to assist with administrative tasks 
 
 are headed to El Paso for now.
 
ORTIZ:  I`m going to be able to reallocate those to some of the other sectors that require some additional capacity. So we`re going to be able to 
 
 balance that out. We`ve got a plan. 
 
FLORES:  Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas says the administration`s border policies are not to blame. 
 
ALEJANDRO MAYORKAS, HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY:  We urge Congress to fix our broken immigration system, and until then, we will do everything that 
 
 we can.
 
FLORES:  While Washington squabbles about who is at fault, its border churches and nonprofits were left helping fill in the gaps. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Imagine if you could recreate some of the most delicious dishes from star chefs from around the world. Well, food technology startup CloudChef 
 
 is aiming to make this a reality using cameras and sensors in a chef`s kitchen so that their gustatory greatness can be replicated for a price, of 
 
 course. Let`s see what our Vanessa Yurkevich has cooking.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT:  Nikhil Abraham is on a mission to recreate some of the world`s finest dishes with some 
 
 computerized help. 
 
NIKHIL ABRAHAM, CLOUDCHEF CO-FOUNDER, CEO:  What we did was build technology where a chef can come into one of our kitchens, be it from your 
 
 favorite restaurant in Paris or even from your grandmother. And we can then recreate this recipe without the chef. 
 
YURKEVICH:  Abraham and his co-founders developed this specialized software and are putting it to use in a new startup kitchen called CloudChef. 
 
ABRAHAM:  We start with Indian food because we were missing some of our favorite restaurants from back home.
 
YURKEVICH:  Chef Annika Goldbulli (ph) is testing the technology, as she cooks sensors record the entire process, breaking it down into thousands of 
 
 data points. 
 
ABRAHAM:  You have cameras looking at the contents of the pan, looking at colors, in some cases, textures. There are infrared cameras figuring out 
 
 how hot each individual item is. 
 
YURKEVICH:  After her dish is recorded, it can be reproduced at any of the sensor powered stations. And the results.
 
(On camera):  I can`t taste a difference in it. Literally everything is duplicated. 
 
(Voice-over):  Chefs receive a royalty every time one of their dishes is ordered. Right now, CloudChef has dishes from Michelin starred chefs 
 
 available for pickup and delivery in Palo Alto, California. But they are looking to expand their kitchens and menus soon by bringing the world`s 
 
 greatest cuisine to your home. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Ten second trivia. Australia gets its name from the Latin word Australis, meaning what?
 
Island, Southern. Eastern, or Humid? 
 
Australis means southern, which is befitting for the land down under. 
 
Let`s head down under to Australia now, where some cool kangaroos are getting today`s 10 out of 10. Parts of southeastern Australia getting the 
 
 coldest day in May on record over the weekend. And kangaroos at Namagdi National Park were hopping in a winter wonderland. Winter in Australia 
 
 usually starts in June, so snowfall this early, wow. It`s pretty rare. 
 
That`s about all we have time for today. Our special shout out goes to Western Hills University High School in Cincinnati, Ohio. We see you. Let`s 
 
 make this an awesome day. The most impactful factor determining our success over time is our state of mind. Stay humble, stay hungry and shine bright 
 
 today, baby. I`m Coy Wire, and we are CNN 10.
 
END