Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Mexican Pres.: Deal Reached On Reopening U.S. Border Crossings; Nine Million Borrowers Missed First Student Loan Payments After Pause Ended; American Airlines Flight Makes Bumpy Landing In London. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired December 28, 2023 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00]
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: No migrants. I want to get out of the way to give you a sense of what we're seeing. This field was packed with thousands of migrants last week that were waiting to be transported for processing. And this week, we're not seeing that.
 
Now, what could these law enforcement actions be? We don't know the exact details, but I can tell you from experience that could include, for example, Mexican National Guard on posts at various areas along the border that are notoriously used by human smugglers. It could also mean checkpoints on trains in Mexico that are used by migrants to move north. It could also include deportations or migrants being moved either to Central Mexico or Southern Mexico from the border.
 
And we've also learned from this National Security Council spokesperson that Mexico is now expected to visit D.C. in January. Now, from Mexico's president, what we're learning is that there is some sort of agreement to reopen ports of entry that have been closed. Now, these ports of entry have been closed by the U.S. Federal Government to redirect personnel to process migrants.
 
Well, we don't know the details there either, John. But that makes sense for so many reasons, including the fact that Mexico is the U.S.'s largest trading partner. So, both countries are losing money if these ports of entry continue to be closed, John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Rosa Flores in Eagle Pass, you're doing great work there all week long. Thank you so much for being there.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: Now, the IDF is warning people in central Gaza to leave now. The IDF posted online that 15 blocks south of Wadi Gaza, including the Al-Bureij refugee camp should be evacuated. But internet services are very limited at this point in Gaza, so it's unclear just how many people might actually see those warnings. This comes the death toll in Gaza has now passed 21,300, according to the Hamas-run health ministry.
 
Let's bring in CNN correspondent Eliott Gotkine, who is live for us in Tel Aviv. Elliot, what are you hearing about what is going to happen going forward as the IDF has noted that, for example, traveling through Khan Yunis is really dangerous because there is a firefight between the IDF and Hamas. ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Sara, I think what Israel is trying to do is show that it is paying heed, especially to U.S. pressure to make sure that it is giving sufficient warning to residents of the Gaza Strip to try to get them out of harm's way. And that it can therefore carry out its operations against Hamas and other militant groups unimpeded. Of course, in this particular case, what they said is they were advising people in many parts of Central Gaza to move to a refugee camp called Deir al-Balah.
 
But we've seen in the past many people -- so many, about more than 80 percent of those inside the Gaza Strip have already been displaced. They've already been forced to move from their homes, especially in the north, either to central Gaza or to southern Gaza. And yes, there will be those that may not get the message, but there will be others who get the message and think you know what, we've heard this so many times from people inside the Gaza Strip from Palestinians, but nowhere in Gaza is safe.
 
And so, safety seems to be relative. They may take the view that better just to remain where we are yes, there may be dangers, but dangers are everywhere. And it's better just to stay put and not be displaced once again.
 
And of, course, what this would also do for those who are moving is further exacerbate the already dire humanitarian situation inside the Gaza Strip, Sara.
 
SIDNER: Yes. It's a really horrific position for the civilians to be in. We've also learned something about one of the hostages that -- an American Israeli hostage has been declared dead now. What can you tell us about that?
 
GOTKINE: That's right. This was announced by Kibbutz Nir Oz, one of the communities most -- hit hardest by Hamas's murderous rampage of October the seventh. We know that Judy Weinstein who's an Israeli American Canadian citizen that she was injured on October the seventh. And now seems that that injury was fatal.
 
Her body is believed to still be being held by Hamas as is that of her husband, who was also killed on October the seventh. She leaves behind four children, seven grandchildren, and even a 95-year-old mother. And Judy was believed to be the last living American female hostage being held by Hamas and other militant groups in the Gaza Strip.
 
They are still holding more than a hundred people, men, women, and children. And Israelis continue to try to demand that they be returned home. Conversations this evening were being had between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the families of the hostages.
 
And he was hinting that conversations remain ongoing to try to get some kind of deal -- another deal on track. But no sign of that just yet, Sara.
 
SIDNER: All right. Well, we know you'll be watching, and we'll be waiting to watch to see how this plays out. Elliott Gotkine, thank you so much, live there with a team from Tel Aviv. BERMAN: So, student loan borrowers are back on the hook for their bills, but new federal data shows that about 40 percent of them are still not paying. Why that is actually good news for the economy?
 <br>[11:35:10]
 
SIDNER: The pandemic's paused, and student loan payment is up. Meaning for the last few months, borrowers have been back on the hook for all of those billions of dollars still owed. And while billions in repayments have been coming in, new data is showing a sharp decline in the month of December.
 
The government is on track to collect just about eight -- 4.8 billion far less than the nine billion owed. Turns out millions of borrowers just missed payments. It's worth noting that significant penalties like delinquency or credit dings for missed payments don't kick in until September of 2024. And that is because of the Biden administration trying to provide an on-ramp for people to start repaying again without getting penalized if they miss a payment or two.
 
Joining me now to explain is student loan expert Mark Kantrowitz. Thank you so much for being here. First of all, you're the author of "To Appeal For More College Financial Aid," which sounds like a good thing if you have all these darn loans.
 
But these payments are going to hurt when students really do start paying them back. How are student loan borrowers responding at this point in time? It doesn't surprise you that so many have missed payments in December.
 <br>[11:40:12]
 
MARK KANTROWITZ, STUDENT LOAN EXPERT: It's not all that surprising the bars in with the restart of repayments are. A little bit confused about their options or how they get started. Normally, there's a six- month grace period after you graduate before repayment restarts, and that first payment is the one that's most likely to be late.
 
SIDNER: Yes. I remember those deferments, right? You could defer for a couple of times. I did it in my first six months because the term -- apparently, TV doesn't pay that well when you first start.
 
I do want to ask you, though, about the economy. You argue that actually, the missing of payments might be better for the economy. Explain.
 
KANTROWITZ: Well, if they're not using the money to make payments on their student loans, then they're using it to make payments on food, ranch, automobiles. And the average student loan payment is less than the average car payment.
 
SIDNER: It is? What -- around what? 300 -- 
 
KANTROWITZ: Yes, it -- 
 
SIDNER: 200, 300 bucks?
 
KANTROWITZ: Yes. And the average is around three $350 on student loans. And on car payments, it's about 450.
 
SIDNER: Nicer cars than I ever had. I do want to ask you about that the amount though of -- the payment may be $300 or $400, but the length of time that has to be paid -- when I was in school, literally, the cost of school was like a thousand percent less than it is now. How on earth can any of these students get from underneath that huge debt?
 
KANTROWITZ: Well, they have many options for repaying their student loans. They have standard 10-year repayment, extended repayment which can be up to 30 years, and also these income-driven repayment plans, which base the monthly payment on a percentage of your income as opposed to the amount you owe. The most recent one is the Biden administration's safe plan, which starting July 1, 2024, will cut the monthly payment on undergraduate debt in half.
 
After 20 years and repayment, so in some cases, 25 years, some cases less, the remaining debt is forgiven.
 
SIDNER: That is actually really good news. If you pay on time and if you pay throughout those years, then the rest of it is forgiven. Mark, let me just lastly, ask you when it comes to what students are doing these days. There are certain jobs you can go into, correct, where you get your student loans paid for if you're in, for example, public service, right?
 
KANTROWITZ: Yes. There's public service loan forgiveness after you make 120 qualifying payments while working full-time in a public service job. And that can be police, fire, EMTs, the members of the military, public school teachers, and certain private school teachers. The remaining debt will be forgiven.
 
So, income-driven repayment makes the monthly payment affordable. Public Service Loan Forgiveness forgives the debt after 10 years.
 
SIDNER: Mark Kantrowitz, thank you so much for all of that advice for our students that are still dealing with all this money that was borrowed. We appreciate your time.
 
KANTROWITZ: Thank you.
 
BERMAN: All right. Simone Biles, Brittney Griner, Bronny James, they all made our list of the top 10 sports stories of 2023. But they are not number one. Who is? Stay tuned.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:47:27]
 
SIDNER: This is wild. A very bumpy landing for an American Airlines Flight. Take a look at this. And listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, stop it.
 
SIDNER (voiceover): Sorry. It is so incredibly British. It's so wonderful. The plane was -- it was heading from Los Angeles to London's Heathrow as you can tell when it was hit by a huge gust of wind. You can see how it drifted and dipped and bounced.
 
And you have the commentary there which is probably the best sports commentary I've heard in years. The area there has been impacted by a powerful storm that produced more than 200 high wind reports with winds reaching 70 miles per hour. John?
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERMAN: Stop it. Stop it.
 
SIDNER: He's really into it.
 
BERMAN: He really is. That was phenomenal. That was just phenomenal.
 
All right. Legendary performances, records broke, and major controversies, that was 2023 for Sara Sidner.
 
SIDNER: What?
 
BERMAN: Also -- no, actually.
 
SIDNER: What?
 
BERMAN: My boy complex as well. I'm talking about the year in sports. In a year for Sara Sidner. CNN's Andy Scholes looks back on what an incredible year it was.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Well, 2023 saw some of the greatest ever say goodbye to their sport, while others made triumphant returns. We had a new sports power couple, many first-time champions, a new king of scoring, and one of the most remarkable sports comebacks of all time.
 
BERMAN: Gymnast, Simone Biles has made history again.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): Simone Biles making her return to competition in 2023 for the first time since suffering a case of the twisties at the Tokyo Olympics. 26-year-old winning five more medals at the World Championships making her the most decorated gymnast of all time. She now has her eyes set on 2024 Paris Games.
 
SIMONE BILES, GYMNAST: Right now, I would say that's the path that I would love to go.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): At number 9. 19-year-old Coco Gauff becoming a Grand Slam champion for the first time. Winning the U.S. Open in thrilling fashion. COCO GAUFF, TENNIS PLAYER: Getting through that final was like a hurdle that I needed to cross -- a mental blockage that I needed to cross. And I did. And hopefully, I can continue to do that many more times.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): Novak Djokovic, meanwhile, continued his dominance in 2023, winning three of the four grand slams. Overtaking Rafael Nadal for the most all-time on the men's side with 24 now for his career.
 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC, TENNIS PLAYER: Knowing that I play at such a high level still and I win the biggest tournaments in the sport. I don't want to leave the sports if I'm still at the top.
 <br>[11:50:09]
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): At number 8. 2023, so many teams celebrate a championship for the first time ever. Two-time MVP Nicola Jokic leading the Denver Nuggets over the Miami Heat to win their first-ever NBA title. The Texas Rangers top the Arizona Diamondbacks to end their 63-year World Series wait.
 
Kim Mulkey and Angel Reese winning LSU their first-ever women's national title. While the Las Vegas Golden Knights got to celebrate on the strip with the Stanley Cup for the very first time.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: City of Las Vegas, we're champions.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): Number seven. The Vegas Strip saw lots of partying this year. The Las Vegas Aces, the first team in 21 years to win back-to-back WNBA titles.
 
A'JA WILSON, BASKETBALL PLAYER: We're coming back. We're coming back, baby.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): 2023 also saw the return of Brittney Griner to the WNBA. Griner missed all of the 2022 season after being wrongfully detained in Russia.
 
BRITTNEY GRINER, BASKETBALL PLAYER: You know, I'm no stranger to hard times, so -- you're going to be faced with adversities throughout your life. This was a pretty big one.
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Kind of an outrageous story. One might be tempted to say that PGA Tour merging with Saudi-backed LIV Golf creates strange bedfellows except we know how the Saudis got the PGA Tour into that bed with a lot of money.
 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER, GOLF PLAYER: As a player on tour, we still don't really have a bunch -- of a lot of clarity as to what's going on. And that's a bit worrisome.
 
RORY MCILROY, GOLF PLAYER: I still hate LIV. Like, I hate LIV. Like, I hope it goes away.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): The framework of how it will all work is still a mystery with a deadline for the two sides to reach a formal agreement set for the end of this year.
 
LAURA COATES, CNN ANCHOR: LeBron James tonight breaking the record to now become the NBA's all-time leading scorer, passing a fellow Laker, Kareem Abdul Jabbar.
 
LEBRON JAMES, BASKETBALL PLAYER: This was not a goal for me. That's why it's probably so surreal. I've been able to do some incredible things in his league and hopefully, I can do some more incredible things before I'm done.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): In February, LeBron James became the king of scoring, passing Kareem Abdul Jabbar. Over the summer, the James family was dealt a scare. LeBron's oldest son, Bronny, went into cardiac arrest during a basketball practice at USC.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Listen to me. Get an ambulance here bow.
 
AMARA WALKE, CNN ANCHOR: Just five months after collapsing on the court from cardiac arrest, LeBron James's son, Bronny, is back playing. Making his collegiate debut for the USC basketball team.
 
BRONNY JAMES, BASKETBALL PLAYER: I just want to I'm thankful for everything.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): And number four. The U.S. women's national team's quest to become the first-ever team to win three straight World Cups was dashed by Sweden in the round of 16. The team saying goodbye to retiring stars Megan Rapinoe and Julie Ertz.
 
MEGAN RAPINOE, SOCCER PLAYER: It has been such an honor to be able to wear this shirt and to play with all these amazing players. And to just live out my childhood dream.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): Spain would hoist the cup for the very first time, but their winning celebrations were marred by an unwanted kiss. Spain's Football Association president Luis Rubiales receiving fierce criticism for forcefully kissing star player Jenni Hermoso. Now, Rubiales was banned from all soccer activities for three years by FIFA. And despite being defiant, eventually resigned his post.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The best number 10 in the world. Lionel Andres Messi.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): Number three. Messi mania taking Miami by storm. The world's best soccer player shocking the world by making the move to Inter Miami. Now, Messi's arrival to the MLS, saw ticket prices soar and bands come from all over to see the Argentinian star.
 
At number two. The Chiefs and Eagles playing an absolute thriller in Super Bowl 57. Patrick Mahomes leading a game-winning drive to beat the Eagles for his second title.
 
TRAVIS KELCE, FOOTBALL PLAYER: In all reality, this was the best season of my life.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): And Travis Kelce is celebrating another championship for Kansas City. And he wouldn't become the story of the 2023 season. His fans couldn't get enough of his budding romance with pop star Taylor Swift.
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: There's breaking news right now. a serious injury on the field during the Buffalo Bills-Cincinnati Bengals game.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't like how he went down.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to need everybody, all call -- all.
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: The condition of Buffalo Bills safety Damar Hamlin. The 24-year-old is in critical condition tonight after suffering a cardiac arrest and collapsing on the field.
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): Hamlin said his cardiac arrest was caused by Comodo Cordis. But thanks to the heroics of first responders and medical staff, they were able to resuscitate.
 
COY WIRE, CNN ANCHOR: I mean you could write a Hollywood script about perseverance, the power of faith, about people rallying and rising up for others when they're down. This story about Hamlin turned into a story about humanity.
 <br>[11:55:10]
 
SCHOLES (voiceover): Hamlin would return to the field playing for the Bills in the fall, completing one of the greatest comebacks in history.
 
DAMAR HAMLIN, FOOTBALL PLAYER: This event was life-changing, but it's not the end of my story.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SIDNER: Speaking of perseverance and life-changing events, our Ryan Young has the cutest baby in all of the cutie town. Look at this -- look at that baby. That, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the world, Ranger Patterson Young.
 
Ryan and his lovely lady had this gorgeous little tyke, you just want to pick him up and squeeze him and smell him and do all the things. Play with the hands and feet. Look. Perfection right there.
 
Good job, Ryan. That is the best package you have ever done to CNN.
 
BERMAN: Ranger.
 
SIDNER: That's your best package.
 
BERMAN: The mayor of cutie town. Thank you all for joining us. Congratulations to all of them. This has been CNN NEWS CENTRAL. "INSIDE POLITICS" is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)