Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Remembering the Nation's War Dead; WH, GOP Reach Debt Limit Deal Just Days Before Potential Default; Increased Attacks on Kyiv; Search and Rescue Operation at Partially Collapsed Apartments in Iowa; FAA Put to the Test as Millions of Travelers Flock to Airports. Aired 9-9:30a ET

Aired May 29, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And then they head back south for the winter.
 
So again, certainly normal, but it is feeling some concern for folks, way off the coast of New Jersey and New York. Back to you.
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR: Spicy on the coast. Just dip my feet in.
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR: There you go.
 
SOLOMON: Thank you, Polo.
 
HILL: Polo, appreciate it.
 
Thanks for joining us this morning. CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts right now.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Live pictures of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery as President Biden and the country mark Memorial Day. A time to honor and remember those who have fallen in service to the nation.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: Take it or leave it. Is that the reality on Capitol Hill right now after leaders strike a deal to raise the debt ceiling. There are lawmakers that are unhappy on both sides of this. So do they have the votes.
 
BERMAN: And the wheels are off. Terrifying moments at the Indy 500 as a tire goes flying toward the crowd. We will show you what it hit.
 
This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
BOLDUAN: They've got a deal and now they need to get the votes. The Republican-led House is set to vote this week on the new debt deal. President Biden, House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, they reached the agreement over the weekend.
 
The plan would suspend the debt limit for about a year and a half through January 1, 2025. Important with that date, it pushes -- pushes off this debate until after the election. But the road ahead is still quite unclear and could be quite bumpy.
 
Party leaders are now waging full-on campaigns to convince their members to back the legislation. If they cannot, the United States could default on its debt on June 5th. That is one week from today.
 
CNN's Manu Raju is on Capitol Hill. Arlette Saenz is at the White House for us.
 
Manu, first to you. Even before they would get to a full House vote, they've got to get through the Rules Committee and that is not even a sure thing right now. What is happening?
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, this is going to be the first challenge for Kevin McCarthy in order to try to get this through the House. That will happen tomorrow. That is the committee that essentially allows legislation to come to the floor.
 
It can stop legislation dead in its tracks if they don't have the votes to get it out of the committee. But there are outspoken critics of this Republican and -- bipartisan bill on this committee, two GOP members. Chip Roy, Ralph Norman, is seat on this committee are vowing to try to do whatever they can to stop this bill. If another Republican joins with them and all Democrats oppose rules that they typically do, and the Rules Committee, that could be enough to stop it.
 
Now the expectation is that they will still get the votes to overcome any efforts to try to derail this in committee. And then the challenge will be in the broader House because at the moment, we are seeing opposition build on the far right of the Republican Conference including some members of the House Freedom Caucus. People who believe that this deal represents a retreat of the Republican position as -- who are demanding far steeper spending cuts and conservative priorities to try to go after the Biden administration.
 
We have seen the outrage build on the right including from Congressman Bob Good, who is a Virginia Republican, who tweeted no one -- "No one claiming to be a conservative could justify a yes vote."
 
Congressman Clyde also saying, "Hard pass. Hold the line."
 
Now the question would be how many of these Republicans will be -- will vote no and the hope among the leadership is that there will be enough Democratic votes to offset the Republican losses.
 
And yesterday in speaking to the -- on a separate network, Congressman Jeffries, the -- a House Democratic leader, indicated that there would be Democratic votes but said there is still information that his members want to hear from the White House. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. HAKEEM JEFFRIES (D-NY): Well, I do expect that there will be Democratic support once we have the ability to actually be fully briefed by the White House. We have to go through a process consistent with respecting every single member of the House of Representatives and their ability to fully understand the resolution that has been reached.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Now that process had been happening behind the scenes. The White House has been holding briefings with House Democrats and Senate Democrats including last night to try to get members on board. The expectation is that there will be enough members, center left Democrats, who could vote and help push this over the finish line. We'll see if that's able to -- would happen. That would happen as soon as Wednesday. And then over to the Senate where they need 60 votes to overcome any filibuster attempt. The expectation is that will happen as well but could be pushed right up against that Monday default deadline. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Absolutely. All right, Manu.
 
Let's get over to the White House right now. Arlette, what are you hearing from there this morning about this path ahead?
 <br>[09:05:01]
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Kate, the White House recognizes the difficult task ahead as they are trying to garner enough support to get this legislation passed before that June 5th deadline. As Manu mentioned, those briefings by senior White House officials are expected to continue throughout the day today. There are also senior staff as having phone calls, one on one phone calls, with some members of Congress as well.
 
And you heard from President Biden just yesterday, really defending his decision to negotiate with Republicans even as some in his own party feel that he has given away too much in this agreement. The president says in his belief that he thinks Democrats will realize that he didn't give away too much. And that in the end, this was a deal that needed to be struck in a bipartisan way in order to reach a compromise.
 
The White House this morning isn't saying if they do in fact have the votes to get this passed. But they are optimistic about it. Take a listen to White House Communications Director Ben LaBolt speaking to our colleagues a bit earlier today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEN LABOLT, WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: Well, look, we'll leave to the speaker to win support from Republicans in Congress to move this forward. Yesterday, when he was on television, he said that he expected the majority of Republican members in the House to support the legislation. You know, the president brought in all four Congressional leaders throughout this process and worked closely with the speaker to make sure that they all felt that they could win support from members of both parties to get a bipartisan vote to get this through, which is always how we've prevented default in the past.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) SAENZ: So really, the target for both President Biden and House Speaker Kevin McCarthy in the coming days will be targeting those middle ground lawmakers. The president has said that he does believe this bill will reach his desk, but it certainly will be a rocky road to get there.
 
BOLDUAN: Absolutely. It's great to have you guys to kind of lay this out on where things look on this morning -- on this Memorial Day morning. Thanks, guys. John.
 
BERMAN: All right, Kate. Let's talk about what is actually in the bill. It would raise the debt limit through 2025 which means this fight would not have to happen again before or during the 2024 election. It caps nondefense spending in the physical year 2024 but allows a 1 percent increase in 2025. And allocates $637 billion for nondefense programs in 2024. Wasn't part of negotiations but in case you're wondering, neither Social Security nor Medicare will be affected by this.
 
The deal tightens work requirements for both the SNAP food assistance program and the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program. Under the law right now, childless able-bodied adults ages 18 to 49, they need to work at least 20 hours a week to receive food stamps regularly. The proposed change would increase the age range to 55. In other words, if you're like 52 or 53, you don't have to work now, but you will if this bill passes. At the same time though, it expands exemptions for veterans and homeless people. In other words, more will be able to receive food stamps.
 
The deal finds money in a few places. $30 billion in unused COVID funds clawed back. It pairs back new spending on the IRS. Congress approved about $80 billion in new funding for the IRS last year. The new deal reduces that amount by about $20 billion over 10 years. The agreement does not touch the climate or clean energy measures passed under the Inflation Reduction Act. Some Republicans have wanted to appeal a few of those. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Absolutely. So Russia launched a rare daytime attack on Kyiv today, a change from the middle of the night bombardments that Russia has been launching since the start of the invasion. Listen to this.
 
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
 
BOLDUAN: Those explosions could be heard over the capital as residents were seen rushing to -- rushing for cover in broad daylight. Local officials have also shared and will show you these images on social media of a burning piece of missile fragment that landed in a parking lot. It comes after a weekend of intensifying drone and missile attacks on the city.
 
Ukrainian air defenses, they say that they shot down most of the cruise missiles and drones. Officials describe this weekend's barrage as one of its largest against the capital to date.
 
Let's go there. CNN's Sam Kiley, he is in Eastern Ukraine tracking all this for us. Sam, what are you hearing about these attacks now? SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, first of all, the Russians claim that they fired a salvo of overnight missiles and hit all of their targets targeting air drones and other military targets. The Ukrainians, of course, don't allow us even if we did know to report on what military targets may have been struck. But there's been no evidence whatsoever to support the Russian claims. What there is evidence for though is a deliberate targeting of civilians in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv in the daylight hours. 
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
Unlike the overnight bombardment or attempted bombardment which was almost entirely seen off by the air defenses in Kyiv. This was an attack during daylight.
 
Clearly when people are out on the streets, children are coming and going from school, residents forced underground into the metro stations, echoes very much of the state of the war a year ago when the city was in grave danger of being overrun by Russian troops before they were driven back. These are surface to surface missiles that were taken down by those air defenses that have been so successful in protecting not just the Ukrainian capital but the country more widely going back several months when the Russians were targeting the energy infrastructure. They seem to have focused or refocused their efforts now to going after Kyiv in particular perhaps trying to hit the command-and-control centers there ahead of what is anticipated to be a Ukrainian counterattack here in the east and the south of the country.
 
BOLDUAN: Absolutely. It's great to see you, Sam. Thank you very much. John.
 
BERMAN: All right. We have new information just in to CNN. We are told that there are no specific individuals known to be trapped in the wreckage of a six-story apartment building that partially collapsed in Davenport, Iowa. But a search and rescue operation is still underway. CNN's Adrienne Broaddus has the latest for us. Adrienne, what are you learning?
 
ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, John, just moments ago we received an update and news many had been hoping to hear from the fire chief in Davenport, Iowa. He said, quote, "No known individuals are trapped in that facility." In all, eight people were rescued and others injured. We know the eighth person was rescued overnight.
 
We learned just moments ago that this rescue team pulled a man from the debris. That man is in the hospital at this hour. His condition is unknown. There were a lot of thank yous. In fact, that's what led this update, big shoutouts to the first responders, some who showed up to the scene on their day off according to the city's mayor, Mike Matson. And he also said, the mayor, at this time nobody has died as a result of this partial apartment building collapse. Listen in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR MIKE MATSON (D-IA), DAVENPORT: We're hoping and praying that that is how it's going to stand. But again, because of the response and because of the concern for life by our first responders to get in the building knowing that that building was unsafe to help folks, I can't stress how -- because of that, they saved lives. They saved lives.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROADDUS: And we also know that before this collapse, there were numerous complaints made by tenants, it sparked multiple inspections by the city and the property owners were ordered to undergo repairs. And that is what was going on at the time of this collapse. We know the building owners had pulled permits.
 
Right now, John, as you can imagine just from looking at those pictures, the biggest challenge is the structure, the stability of the structure. It is not safe right now. John.
 
BERMAN: No, I mean, you look at the pictures, just extraordinary, Adrienne. A whole line of the building is just missing. It's just gone. It's really an extraordinary image. Adrienne Broaddus, thanks for the reporting. Please keep us updated. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Coming up for us, a tragedy out of Pennsylvania. Living with rats, a padlocked refrigerator, the conditions several children were found in and what their parents are now -- are now charged with.
 
Plus, today is the unofficial beginning of summer of course and too many beaches and pools across the country may be without lifeguards. The nationwide lifeguard shortage, that is next.
 
And there is also the green mystery in Venice, Italy that is sparking so much interest concerning questions, what happened to the water in the famed Grand Canal. We'll have that after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:18:20]
 
BERMAN: This morning, officials at Churchill Downs, home of the Kentucky Derby admit they are in search of answers after two more horses had to be euthanized this weekend, that brings to 12 the total number of horses who have died there in just more than two months. The racetrack says it is working with regulatory bodies in Kentucky to investigate these deaths and they say to improve the safety of the sport.
 
An annual motorcycle rally in Red River, New Mexico turned into a crime scene. Police say, two rival gangs started shooting at each other and when it was all over, three people were killed. Several others were hurt there. All those involved are now in custody and police say there is no ongoing threat to public safety.
 
And a search is underway for a gunman who opened fire in a Seattle casino and bowling alley, wounding three people. The extent of the injuries are unknown. The King County sheriff's office says it is investigating but has yet to release a description of the suspect or motive. Kate. BOLDUAN: Memorial Day weekend is breaking records. The TSA screened more than 2.7 million people at airports across the country on Friday which was the busiest day yet this year. Despite the crowds, the FAA though appears to be keeping up with the surge. Relatively few flight delays and cancellations.
 
CNN's Pete Muntean is at Reagan National for us. So, Pete, what are you hearing there now? I'm almost -- I almost hesitate to say relatively few delays and cancellations because I'm going to -- I'm just going to be jinxing everyone.
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Don't jinx it, Kate. You know, the numbers are actually pretty low for delays and cancellations today. Just check FlightAware, only about 50 cancellations nationwide today, 490 delays. The FAA says the problems could mount throughout the day.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
Ground stops possible at LaGuardia, at Newark, in Houston, in San Francisco, in Florida, but so far so good. And the numbers have been relatively low. This was always going to be a huge challenge for air travel this time around.
 
That has been the big story this Memorial Day weekend because think back to last year when airlines canceled about 2,700 flights over the long Memorial Day weekend. And it really kicked off the summer of delays and cancellations. 55,000 flights canceled between last Memorial Day and last Labor Day. Especially important considering the number of people that have been traveling.
 
You mentioned that 2.7 million number screened by the TSA at airports on Friday, not only as the biggest number of this year. It's the biggest number for air travel since the depths of the pandemic. We are consistently seeing numbers Thursday, Friday, those numbers have been bigger than the same day back in 2019. So huge rush of people traveling.
 
The rather real issue here, not only is it the FAA staffing and air traffic control staffing, but also airline staffing. They insist that they have been ready this time around, hiring about 48,000 people since this time last year according to a CNN analysis. The big thing to underscore here though, Kate, it is not just air travel, it is also people driving. And AAA anticipated about 37 million people would drive 50 miles or more over this long holiday weekend period.
 
So the best times to travel are pretty much right now, before 10:00 a.m. The worst times, between 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. today. So we're through the first wave. Now this is the second wave when everybody begins coming home all at once.
 
And we've talked about this before, the big advice from AAA, if you're going to extend your trip over this long weekend, you probably should. If you can leave Tuesday or even Wednesday, that might be the best given this huge rush for travel right now.
 
BOLDUAN: I love your jokes. You are so funny, Pete. Leaving that just extending vacation and leaving on Wednesday. I love your jokes. You are so funny. Pete Muntean, tracking it all. Thank you.
 
MUNTEAN: We're working, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: I mean hardly. Hardly working. That is what we do every day though. It's great to see you, Pete. John.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
BERMNAN: So look, as Pete Muntean well knows, the holiday weekend is also a great time to get in the water so long as you are wearing sunscreen, sensible and modest swim wear, that was a message for Pete, and you are properly supervised. That last one is the problem because for the third straight summer, there is a shortage of lifeguards. This has led to some beach and pool closures.
 
CNN's Polo Sandoval is at Rockaway Beach here in New York City. Polo, tell us what you are seeing.
 
SANDOVAL: Hey guys. You know, it is another summer, yet another lifeguard shortage as well. So you have municipalities across the country that are trying to figure out how they're going to boost their lifeguard numbers ahead of what will likely be a very busy summer swimming season. Not just at pools but certainly beaches including here where it is a beautiful start to this Memorial Day.
 
Most of the folks you'll see at the beach here at New York City are actually going to be surfing right now. But it is a matter of time before you'll begin to see some of those families arriving. So the big recommendation right now is for folks to certainly keep track of their loved ones if they are in the water because New York City certainly faces one of those shortages in terms of trying to get ahead of it or at least up those numbers.
 
The city is boosting, they're upping their recruitment efforts including bonuses, also upping the salary for lifeguards in New York from about $16 to now $21 an hour. But the -- the concern though is that they cannot keep up with the demand to fill some of those positions. And not just here, but again, throughout the country.
 
So the big recommendation that we heard from the American Lifeguard Association is for folks to really watch out for one another as -- at this certain point, there doesn't seem to be any -- any relief in sight in terms of that lifeguard shortages. They tried to -- to boost those recruitment efforts, guys.
 
BERMAN: Yes. I mean, help wanted at the beach. And it's a good job particularly if you are a young person. I highly recommend it. Polo Sandoval at Rockaway. Stay safe, wear sunscreen. Thank you, Polo. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Coming up on CNN NEWS CENTRAL. Police discover seven children living in deplorable conditions in their home. Their parents now under arrest. What else police have now learned, what's going on in that house.
 
Plus, this. A huge political fight is playing out in Texas. The state attorney general was just impeached by the Republican-led state house, accused of among other things bribery. What is next for Ken Paxton, that's ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:29:00]
 
BERMAN: All right. These right here are live pictures of the World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C. We've been watching this wreath-laying ceremony there. A truly one of the nation's most beautiful and poignant memorials. This of course is Memorial Day, a time for the nation to remember those fallen -- who have fallen in service to the nation.
 
Again, this is the World War II Memorial not far from here in Arlington National Cemetery. Very shortly, we will see President Biden and the first lady attend a ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
 
President also facing a critical day on the debt ceiling after the White House and Republican leadership reached a deal to raise the debt ceiling. Now pressure is mounting to convince both Democrats and Republicans, the rank and file to get behind the compromised legislation. The House is expected to vote on the bill Wednesday. Now if it fails, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen says the U.S. would default on its debt one week from today. Kate.
 <br>[09:30:01]
 
BOLDUAN: This morning two parents in Pennsylvania are facing multiple felonies.