Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Israel and Militants Trade Strikes Hours After Deadly Raid; Five Police Officers Charged with Murder in Death of Tyre Nichols; Police Prepare for Unrest as Arrest Video of Tyre Nichols Set to be Released; Substantial Damage to Ukraine's Power Grid After Russian Attacks; U.S. Raid Kills Senior ISIS Leader in Somalia; Haitian Prime Minister Hidden by Special Forces After Attack on Residence; How Cryptocurrency is Produced; Mafia Boss Matteo Messina Denaro Now Held in Maximum Security Prison. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired January 27, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:02]
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Airstrikes from Israel and rocket fire from Gaza in the aftermath of a deadly raid in the West Bank. Fears of 
 
 further violence are growing in the region. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAWVAUGHN WELLS, MOTHER OF TYRE NICHOLS: I want each and every one of you to protest in peace. I don't want us burning up our cities. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: The U.S. police brutality case in Memphis, a nation on edge. The mother the victim asks for calm. We will hear what else she has to say. 
 
And Novak Djokovic books his place in the Australian Open Final. Will the Serbian star get a 10th victory? 
 
I'm Eleni Giokos. Hello, and welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD. We are live in Dubai. 
 
Israelis and Palestinians traded strikes in the skies and there are fears the latest tensions could spiral further. Overnight militants fired rockets 
 
 from Gaza, sending a message after Thursday's deadly Israeli raid in the West Bank. Israel says most were intercepted. Israel struck back, hitting 
 
 what it says was a Hamas rocket site. Outside the Al Aqsa Mosque today, Palestinians protested the Israeli raid. 
 
CNN's Hadas Gold is watching all of this unfold for us from Jerusalem. 
 
Many more incidents since that Israeli raid. I want you to take me through what we've seen in the last 24 hours. 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Eleni, so this all started yesterday in the morning hours when the Israeli military conducted what a 
 
 some rather unusual raids in -- unusual because when the military cresting's operations they don't do so in broad daylight. They do so in the 
 
 early John hours or early night, and they often don't actually entered the gym in refugee camp itself. 
 
But they say that they had intelligence that it group was planning an imminent attack, so that is why they decided to undertake this unusual raid 
 
 in Jenin. Unusual because typically when the military conducts these operations they don't do so in broad daylight. They do so in the early dawn 
 
 hours or overnight. And they often don't actually enter the Jenin refugee camp itself. But the Israeli military saying that they did so because they 
 
 say they had intelligence that an Islamic jihad group was planning an imminent attack. 
 
So that's why they decided to undertake this unusual raid. But in that ensuing firefight, at least nine Palestinians were killed, and while Hamas 
 
 and Islamic jihad have claimed some of them, we do know that bystanders, civilians, were killed as well including a woman in her 60s. And then a few 
 
 hours later, in short of ensuing clashes and other areas, a 10th Palestinian was killed. That makes it the deadliest day for Palestinians in 
 
 over a year in what's already been a very deadly year. 
 
I mean, just in the first -- we haven't even completed the first month of 2023, and 30 Palestinians have been killed so far, according to the 
 
 Palestinian Ministry of Health. Now the Palestinian Authority reacted quite quickly and angrily. The Palestinian Authority president Mahmoud Abbas 
 
 calling it a massacre and then taking the drastic step of severing security coordination with Israel. 
 
Now this is something that the Palestinian Authority has done in the past. They did so in 2020, but it is seen as a very drastic move. The U.S. State 
 
 Department reacted saying that they didn't think it was the right thing to do. And then a few hours later, as night fell, that's when we started to 
 
 see the action in the sky. Missiles were launched from Gaza towards Israel. They are about several rockets in total launch. Israel says most were 
 
 intercepted or landed in open areas. 
 
There were no injuries reported, and Israel responded by striking what it said was a Hamas rocket making launch site. Obviously this is raising 
 
 tensions and fears over further violence to a level we have not seen in quite some time, despite the fact it's been a rather violent and tense 
 
 year. And it's coming also right as the U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken is expected to land here within the coming days, preplanned 
 
 meetings with both Israeli and Palestinian leaders, but now his visit is carrying a much, much higher significance -- Eleni. 
 
GIOKOS: Yes, Hadas, you know, really good point on the visit of Antony Blinken. I mean, the question now becomes what happens to the situation, 
 
 which was already seemingly very tense. And as you mentioned, Palestinian authorities suspending the security coordination that has been in place. 
 
 The question is will they enforce that. 
 
GOLD: Yes, I mean, so they've done this before in 2020. And there were reports that there were still some sort of low levels of coordination 
 
 between the two, even when they severed it. And it was reinstated around six months later. This was reinstated to Israeli plans to annex parts of 
 
 the West Bank. Once those were taken off the table they were reinstated. So this isn't to say this is a permanent severing of the ties. 
 
And I wouldn't be surprised if, especially with the secretary of State coming to this region soon, that that will be the top focus in discussions 
 
 as how to reinstate the security coordination. But that's actually been the subject that the Palestinian Authority has been under immense pressure over 
 
 the past few months because, as I said, last year was such a violent year for Palestinians and Israelis as well, but many were calling for the 
 
 Palestinian Authority to take the step, to sever the security coordination between the two of them. 
 
And that will likely of course be top of mind for the U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken because there are fears that if that security 
 
 coordination is severed, that the security situation in both countries will just become even worse. 
 <br>[10:05:10]
 
Of course a lot of people paid attention to Gaza, paid attention to what the militants do, it's very dramatic when rockets are fired. As of right 
 
 now, those seven rockets were fired, there were airstrikes, and we're trying but we'll have to see what will tonight as night falls if more 
 
 rockets will be fired tonight -- Eleni,. 
 
GIOKOS: Yes. Hadas Gold, thank you very much for being on top of that story for us. 
 
Well, it was a police traffic stop that turned into a U.S. tragedy. The world is watching as cities across America brace for the release later of a 
 
 graphic erased video, showing a violent encounter between police and 29- year-old Tyre Nichols earlier this month in Memphis, Tennessee. Nichols died of his injuries day later. His mother is calling for peaceful protest 
 
 once the video goes public. She's been speaking to CNN. That interview in just a moment. Now five former police officers have been charged with 
 
 second-degree murder in her son's death. 
 
CNN's Sarah Sidner looks at how this killing has already touched a nerve in parts of America. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In Memphis, candles burned for life snuffed out. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Tyre was just trying to go home. 
 
SIDNER: The life of 29-year-old Tyre Nichols being remembered where friends say he felt the most free, a skate park. 12 years ago Tyre Nichols seen 
 
 here doing what he loved. 12 years later, he ended up dead, officials say beaten by five men sworn to protect and serve. 
 
STEVEN MULROY, SHELBY COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY: The grand jury returned indictments against all five with the same charges. The actions of all of 
 
 them resulted in the death of Tyre Nichols. And they are all responsible. 
 
SIDNER: Justin Smith, Tadarrius Bean, Demetrius Haley, Desmond Mills, and Emmitt Martin III were all fired from the Memphis Police Department, and 
 
 now stand charged with seven crimes, second-degree murder, two counts of aggravated assault, two counts of aggravated kidnapping, official 
 
 misconduct, and official oppression. And there is police body cam and sky camera video showing it all. Something police will soon release to the 
 
 public. 
 
DAVID RAUSCH, TENNESSEE BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONS DIRECTOR: I'm grieved. Frankly I'm shocked. I'm sickened by what I saw. What happened here does 
 
 not at all reflect proper policing. This was wrong. This was criminal. 
 
SIDNER: Attorneys for two of the former officers responded to the TBI's damning statement. 
 
(On-camera): When you heard that, what did you think? And have your clients heard all of those charges against them? 
 
WILLIAM MASSEY, ATTORNEY TO EMMITT MARTIN JR.: I thought, I wish I'd seen that video so I could evaluate what he said. 
 
BLAKE BALLIN, ATTORNEY FOR DESMOND MILLS: To say things like that when you have a tinderbox that we're all concerned about, I have questions about 
 
 whether those are the right words to use, whether this was the right timing, and whether the government should be saying those things about 
 
 people who are innocent until proven guilty when you know that's going to be broadcast to potential jurors. 
 
SIDNER (voice-over): But Nichols' family wants people to know more about Tyre Nichols than how he died. 
 
WELLS: Nobody is perfect. OK? Nobody. But he was darn near. My son was a beautiful soul. And he touched everyone. 
 
SIDNER: Nichols had his mom's name tattooed on his arm. He was not just her beautiful boy, he was also a father who loved having fun. His friend, who 
 
 knew him in Sacramento, told a local newspaper he had such a free spirit and skating gave him his wings. He worked at FedEx but had other dreams. 
 
 Photography. 
 
In his own words, he posted, "People have a story to tell. Why not capture it? Instead of doing the norm and writing it down, and speaking it." It 
 
 turns out what led to his death was captured on camera. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS: That's CNN' Sara Sidner reporting there for us. And Tyre Nichols' mother and her husband just sat down for an exclusively interview with my 
 
 colleague Don Lemon. It's their first since charges were announced for the police officers involved. Their family attorney, Benjamin Crump, was with 
 
 them, and he says some of the last words on the video to be released later are Tyre calling out to his mother. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN CRUMP, ATTORNEY FOR TYRE NICHOLS' FAMILY: The last words on that video that America is going to hear, and Miss Wells, he calls out for you 
 
 three times. It is gut wrenching screams for his mom. 
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR: Go ahead, Mom. 
 
WELLS: That was my baby. He was a mama's boy. That boy loved me to death. He has my name tattooed on his arm. 
 <br>[10:10:04]
 
People don't know what those five police officers did to our family, and they really don't know what they did to their own families. They had put 
 
 their own families in harm's way. They have brought shame to their own families. They have brought shame into the black community. I just feel 
 
 sorry for them. I really do. I really feel sorry for them. 
 
LEMON: Why do you say? 
 
WELLS: Because they didn't have to do this, and like I said, they brought a lot of shame to their own family. Once you this video, and I know I didn't 
 
 see it, from what I heard, it's horrific. And the humanity of it all. Where was the humanity? They beat my son like a pinata. My son -- he had Crohn's 
 
 disease, he had surgery in 2013. My son weighed a buck 50. He was 6'3" and he weighed a buck 50. 
 
And those men, if you combine their weights, it was over a thousand pounds, beating and beating 150-pound person to death because that's what they did. 
 
 They beat my son to death. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: Tyre Nichols' mother sharing with us how she feels, and the Memphis police chief says the amount of aggression she saw on the video of Tyre 
 
 Nichols' arrest was, quote, "unexplainable." Chief CJ Davis says it's as bad if not worse than Rodney King in 1992. She spoke to CNN just hours ago 
 
 in her first interview since Nichols' death. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF CERELYN DAVIS, MEMPHIS POLICE: I was outraged. I was -- it was incomprehensible to me, it was unconscionable, and I felt that I needed to 
 
 do something and do something quickly. I don't think I witnessed anything of that nature in my entire career. 
 
You're going to see acts that defy humanity. You're going to see a disregard for life, duty of care that we're all sworn to, and a level of 
 
 physical interaction is above and beyond what is beyond in law enforcement. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: The Memphis police chief there, and authorities around the U.S. have been calling for calm ahead of the release of that erased video later 
 
 today. Tyre Nichols' mother is asking supporters to keep any protests peaceful, but law enforcement in many cities are still making sures to be 
 
 prepared if demonstrations do turn violent. 
 
CNN's Brynn Gingras has the very latest from New York for us. 
 
As we await for this video showing the beating that has been described as brutal and heinous, we've just heard from Tyre Nichols' mother. How are 
 
 police departments preparing for possible unrest here? 
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I mean, Eleni, as you show your viewers those videos of those interviews this morning, I mean, everyone 
 
 gets emotional. It's hard not to get emotional. And police departments realize that and also realize that that emotion can turn into protests, 
 
 some of those, as we have seen sadly in the past, those can turn certainly violent. 
 
So they are taking measures ahead of the release of this video later today, this evening, showing what we have been hearing described to us as a pretty 
 
 horrific video. And it's police departments all across country, there are L.A., we have Atlanta, Minneapolis, here at the NYPD in New York, and 
 
 they're doing the measures that they have learned from the past, you know, and sort of learning from them. You know, all the protest that we've seen, 
 
 and sort of doing different measures as well. 
 
What you're seeing right there. Expanding shifts, canceling days off, putting people who aren't normally in a uniform in a uniform, and getting 
 
 them on the streets. Having reserves ready to go should protests become too large for departments to handle or in some cases out of hand. 
 
I do want to mention the Dallas Police Department. We did get comments about the preparations from many police departments across this country, 
 
 but Dallas, I want you hear from because again they sort of talked to the emotions of what we are expecting later today. 
 <br>[10:15:02]
 
"We understand the emotion the criminal charges on these former officers has caused and that emotion may intensify when the video footage is 
 
 released. While we respect everyone's right to protest, no matter their position, we will not condone lawlessness in our city. We will take the 
 
 appropriate action, if anyone's action threatens life or harm people or property." 
 
Of course, you can imagine that is -- you know, the same sentiment is spread across departments all across this country. One thing to note, 
 
 though, Eleni, is that in the U.S. we are seeing a lot of police shortages in particularly medium-sized city departments. You know they have been 
 
 trying to deal with attrition, offering incentives to come join the police officers, and so there are many police departments who are walking into 
 
 this evening who are understaffed and are having to deal with that. So that is something that we will be closely watching as we see how departments 
 
 across this country react to whatever they are seeing in their streets -- Eleni. 
 
GIOKOS: And as you say, a lot of emotion involved, I think a lot of anxiety, I hear the pain in Tyre Nichols' mother's voice. So it's a tragic 
 
 incident. 
 
Brynn, thank you very much for your update. 
 
Well, you're watching CONNECT THE WORLD live from Dubai today. And still ahead, Ukraine recovering from the latest barrage of Russian attacks. What 
 
 the country's energy operators is saying about the country's power grid. That's all coming up. Stay with CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Welcome back. Ukraine's state energy operator reports substantial damage to the country's power grid after a wave of missile and drone 
 
 attacks Thursday. Ukraine's military is giving updates of numbers on the attacks which killed at least 11 people. It now says Russia launched 17 
 
 missiles with 47 of them intercepted, and 44 airstrikes, including 18 with the Iranian made drones that were all shot down. 
 
On the ground, Ukraine says fighting is intensifying in several cities in the Donetsk region, including Bakhmut. Several deaths are reported. 
 
Sam Kiley is tracking those developments for us from Kyiv. 
 
Sam, just looking at those numbers and the strikes, the attacks, I want to go through just what it means for the energy grid. This has been one of the 
 
 tactics from the Russian side to damage infrastructures, specifically during the wintertime to weaken Ukraine. 
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it's a very concerted outright campaign of attacks on civilian infrastructure. As you 
 
 rightly point out, to weaken the capacity of the Ukrainians to distribute water, to keep their homes warm, to keep hospitals functioning, to keep 
 
 schools open, and to keep the home fires burning effectively by attacking the energy production grid, namely the capacity to produce electricity. 
 
Now there has been extraordinary efforts made by the Ukrainians, again that was the same yesterday after this latest wave of missile attacks. 
 <br>[10:20:07]
 
Extraordinary efforts made to repair the energy grid so that they can get back up and running. So across the country by sunset yesterday the 
 
 essential services had been reconnected. But this is an incremental campaign. With every wave of these attacks, of course, the energy sector is 
 
 set back. And it doesn't -- they have in the past predicted that it could take two years to make 100 percent repair even in a peace time because the 
 
 Ukrainians are really struggling to get spare parts. 
 
You don't have sort of very large transformers or other very highly technical piece of equipment simply sitting around around Europe to be 
 
 plugged in and used in the event of war, so these are very specialist bits of equipment that are coming under Russian attack, and the Russians are 
 
 doing that absolutely deliberately. 
 
And then of course, on the ground, we're continuing to see these extraordinary attacks perpetrated. And I use the term advisedly by Russia 
 
 using really extraordinary levels of human waves, trying to overwhelm Ukrainian forces by a massive manpower, relatively low levels of investment 
 
 in terms of vehicles being used to armored vehicles and tanks, for example, being used by Russia, particularly around Bakhmut. 
 
But locally, local forces there for Ukrainian forces fighting the Russians there for weeks have been reporting these extraordinary human waves in 
 
 which the Russians are suffering very heavy casualties but are making very slow, very bloody, incremental progress as they try to capture these cities 
 
 in the east. 
 
Now all of this ahead in the winter months of what the Ukrainians fear could be a substantial campaign coming from Russia in the spring. And a lot 
 
 of eyes are on Belarusian territory to the northwest of the country where there have been recently exercises conducted by Russia on a Belarusian 
 
 territory. The Belarusians not giving any indication that they would actually crossed the border and support the Russians, but even if the 
 
 Russians were to attack from there, it would be very problematic indeed for the Ukrainians -- Eleni. 
 
GIOKOS: All right, Sam Kiley, thank you. 
 
Well, the U.S. says it has killed a senior ISIS leader in Somalia, as well as 10 other ISIS members. The operation took place in northern Somalia in 
 
 the mountainous region where Bilal al-Sudani had worked to promote ISIS' work and fund big terror campaigns around the world. The U.S. attack have 
 
 been planned for several months. 
 
We've got CNN's David McKenzie tracking this for us. 
 
David, what do we know about how they found al-Sudani, how they carried out this attack? 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, there would've been tracking this figure for a long time, as you said, Eleni. And 
 
 you look at the kind of operation that it was, which was a U.S. Special Operations Forces boots on the ground in early morning Thursday raids, said 
 
 U.S. officials, into the pot land region of Somalia. And that shows the importance that the U.S. government placed on this al-Sudani who they say 
 
 is a key or was a key figure in the funding and expansion of ISIS in Africa region and beyond, including all the way to Afghanistan. 
 
And it speaks again to how the targeting of the terror act as well as terror financiers and go between is becoming increasingly important when it 
 
 comes to the operations on the continent. The last time I remember this name coming up was late last year with the U.S. Treasury linked al-Sudani 
 
 to several figures here in South Africa allegedly part of a financing cell of ISIS. So this was a kill or be capture operation, according to U.S. 
 
 officials. 
 
But they said that they met resistance. At least 10 other ISIS members were killed in this. And ISIS is not a particularly formidable force in Somalia. 
 
 It's more al Qaeda-linked al-Shabaab, so I think it's more the transnational linkages that this particular individual had as to why they 
 
 went to these lengths for a successful targeting of al-Sudani -- Eleni. 
 
GIOKOS: All right, David McKenzie, thank you very much. 
 
All right, so a jury in New York has convicted a man who said he was inspired by ISIS to carry out a deadly attack on a bike path five years 
 
 ago. The Uzbekistan native plowed into cyclists and pedestrians with a rental truck in 2017. Eight people were killed. Now a jury will decide 
 
 whether to impose the death penalty. It was New York City's deadliest terror attack since 9/11. 
 
Coming up, police in Haiti join the ranks of angry protesters in riots so heated the prime minister had to be extracted and hidden. The source of 
 
 their rage and the security situation right now, after the break. 
 <br>[10:25:02]
 
Plus a mafia boss who is awaiting trial. He was found in Italy not far from his hometown. We're learning that he was living a regular life even though 
 
 he was one of Europe's most wanted men. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Welcome back. I'm Eleni Giokos in Dubai and you're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
Just hours from now video will be released from that deadly confrontation we've been telling you about in the U.S. city of Memphis, Tennessee. And 
 
 cities nationwide brace for public reaction to that video. We're getting some idea of what it will show. An attorney representing the family of Tyre 
 
 Nichols says the footage will remind people of Rodney King, a victim of police brutality whose death caused in 2012 caused riots across the United 
 
 States. 
 
Police departments in many U.S. cities have plans in place in case violence erupts Friday evening. U.S. National Security Council spokesperson John 
 
 Kirby spoke with CNN earlier. He said President Biden joins the family in calling for peaceful protests. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL SPOKESPERSON: We certainly don't want to see anyone else hurt by this terrible, terrible tragedy. And we'll stay 
 
 in close touch with local and state authorities. I don't have any federal assistance to speak to right now, but obviously we're going to stay in 
 
 touch with local authorities and should there be a need, we certainly would be part and parcel to that conversation. Hopefully, the protests will stay 
 
 peaceful. That's what I think everybody wants. And, frankly, you know, that's what's needed. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: Well, this video footage is said to be released in about nine hours from now, and we'll have more on the story in the next hour. We will be 
 
 tracking this as it happens. 
 
Well, today, California authorities are releasing recordings related to the attack on Paul Pelosi, husband of former U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. 
 
 Materials to be released include 911 audio. Police body camera footage and home surveillance video. The coalition of news organizations including CNN 
 
 went to court to secure the release of the recordings. Paul Pelosi was attacked at the couple's home in October by a man with a hammer. The 
 
 suspect has pleaded not guilty to multiple states and federal charges. 
 
We are also keeping an eye on the security situation in Haiti where violent protests broke out in Port-au-Prince over gang violence that's left several 
 
 police officers dead. Some police even joined in the riots. It got so bad a top adviser says the prime minister was ferried away by special forces and 
 
 taken to a location that is safe. 
 <br>[10:30:03]
 
Demonstrators also made their way to the country's main airport, knocking over barriers and storming the building as the prime minister returned to 
 
 Haiti from a trip. 
 
Patrick Oppmann is following the story for us from Cuba, and he joins us now live. 
 
And just for some context here, Patrick, these killings fanning the political chaos frankly that has ensued since the assassination of 
 
 President Jovenel Moise. I want you to take me through what we're seeing right now. It's resulted in deaths and specifically police deaths as well. 
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's correct. And these police deaths, around 10 in the last week, that is what has even made a bad 
 
 situation so much worse because the police are understandably angry that they often feel that the gangs are better armed than they are, that they 
 
 have weapons that are more powerful than the ones that they have, that they control much of Haiti, if not most of Haiti at this point. 
 
And tragically many of the bodies of these police officers have not been able to be recovered. So that is what led to the situation to boil over 
 
 yesterday, when we saw protesters and police among those protesters, attacking first at the prime minister's residence as he was returning from 
 
 a regional conference in Argentina, and then when he actually landed in the Port-au-Prince airport, that they went to that airport and essentially 
 
 tried to attack him. 
 
Some said they wanted to negotiate with him, but very clearly they felt -- his advisers felt that his life was at risk. He was escorted out of the 
 
 airport, rescued essentially, by special forces, and then they have taken to this undisclosed location. So the situation remains at this point that 
 
 the prime minister of Haiti does not feel safe, is not safe in his own country at this point. And, even though his advisory said they are 
 
 negotiating with police, it is not clear yet how much control he has over his own police force at this point. 
 
GIOKOS: Yes. The prime minister is also been asking for international intervention of sorts since the assassination of the former president. 
 
 There's been no country willing to respond to this request. I want you to take me through what the outcome is where two from here for the PM? 
 
OPPMANN: It's really hard to see a way out of this crisis for him because, as you said, no country seems to be eager to take on that role of battling 
 
 these powerful gangs, gangs that have more firepower than the police in Haiti. We are seeing the police essentially falling apart, taking terrible 
 
 losses, and many police saying that they simply don't want to risk their lives anymore. Of course, Haiti has a long history of foreign interventions 
 
 and some of these protesters that we have heard from, from the gangs or on the other side of this, say that foreign intervention would only rile up 
 
 the situation even more if you had foreign troops coming in. 
 
But, at this point, it really is hard to see how Haiti can bring the gang violence under control. Clearly the police and the government are unable to 
 
 do that. 
 
GIOKOS: All right. Patrick Oppmann, thank you so much for that context. 
 
Well, today is International Holocaust Remembrance Day, which also marks the anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz death camp. It's a time 
 
 to honor the six million Jews killed by the Nazis, whose other victims include by minorities, the disabled, and the LGBTQ Plus individuals. The 
 
 husband of the U.S. vice president, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, is visiting key sites in Poland and Germany this week, including Auschwitz. 
 
Let's get you up to speed on other stories making headlines. 
 
Taiwan has a new premiere president Tsai Ing-wen, appointed former vice president Chen Chien-jen to the post. He's been praised for his role in 
 
 Taiwan's early containment of COVID-19. The change is part of a cabinet reshuffle after the president's party suffered heavy losses in local 
 
 elections last November. 
 
A state of emergency has been declared in Auckland, New Zealand, where a month's worth of rain fell in just one hour. Auckland airport says its 
 
 terminals and roadways have flooded and that teams are working around the clock to get the airport up and operational as soon as possible. 
 
Japanese authorities are urging people to watch out for blizzards and frozen roads as the nation deals with record-setting winter weather. The 
 
 winter storms are expected to ease a bit on Friday, but are forecasted to get bad again over the weekend. 
 
One more game to go, and one of Novak Djokovic's greatest ambitions will be fulfilled. The Serbian tennis star is aiming for a 10th title at the 
 
 Australian Open after defeating Tommy Paul in a semifinal match. Djokovic will have an ambitious Greek opponent in the finals. Stefanos Tsitsipas 
 
 lost to Djokovic in the 2021 French Open Final, and now has the chance to avenge that defeat. 
 <br>[10:35:07]
 
One of Europe's most wanted men is now awaiting trial in a high security prison. We'll tell you what Italian police found when they raided the 
 
 hideouts of an arrested mafia boss. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Welcome back. Now cryptocurrency has been in the headlines quite a lot in the last six months. Our Anna Stewart digs into the technology it 
 
 takes to produce cryptocurrency much like digital gold. Like gold, digital money is mined. So let's take a look how. Anna Stewart shows us. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): At this showroom in Dubai, I don't see any shovels or hard hats. But apparently it's where I can buy 
 
 myself all the equipment I need to begin mining cryptocurrency. 
 
JAMES CAMPAGNA, PARTNER, VIPERA: These are called A-6. These machines are basically computers. SO what they do is they mine cryptocurrency. Not all 
 
 of them mine bit coins, some of them mine LTC and Deutch coin. 
 
STEWART: James Campagna works with Vipera Tech which sells miners to individual consumers like me. 
 
(On-camera): We have all these machines, I'm here, can I mine some bitcoin? 
 
CAMPAGNA: Yes, sure. We can turn a machine on and we can start the process. 
 
STEWART: that's really loud. 
 
CAMPAGNA: Yes. That's what it really sounds like. 
 
STEWART (voice-over): They're very noisy, and they give off a lot of heat. 
 
CAMPAGNA: Yes, it will disturb neighborhoods, so generally a lot of this mining happens away from the city grid in isolated areas only because the 
 
 noise does become a nuisance. 
 
STEWART: What these mining machines are doing is digitizing trust. Every time someone makes a transaction with bitcoin, that transaction is recorded 
 
 on a block chain so we know who gave what to who and when. 
 
Miners are verifying those transactions and locking them down forever so that no one could ever alter that record. The miners compete with each 
 
 other to be the first to verify blocks on the block chain because the winning miner gets a small award in crypto. 
 
That's how miners make their owner's money, not much, but some, working on the hope that one day most people will use crypto as the sole worldwide 
 
 monetary system. 
 
CAMPAGNA: We're always thinking about the future, never thinking about the president. 
 
STEWART (on-camera): So do you mind at all, yourself, at home? 
 
CAMPAGNA: Personally no, my wife would kill me. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS: Mafia boss Matteo Messina Denaro is awaiting trial in a maximum security prison in Italy following his arrest after decades on the run. But 
 
 there are questions about how he was able to live in relative freedom despite being one of Europe's most wanted men. 
 
Barbie Nadeau has more. 
 <br>[10:40:04]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR (voice-over): Infamous mafia boss Matteo Messina Denaro's arrest has taken Italy by storm. Every detail of his life 
 
 in hiding for the last 30 years scrutinized to the nth degree. He may have been hiding from the law but he certainly wasn't hidden away. 
 
Moments before his arrest on January 16th Messina Demaro can be seen in police video walking freely and alone into a private health care clinic in 
 
 Paloma. Raids of three of the 60-year-old's hideouts have turned up a collection of high-end sunglasses and other luxury goods. 
 
Journalist Roberto Saviano has been living under police protection since 2006 when he wrote his book about the mafia, "Gomorra." Authorities say 
 
 that they also found a collection of movie memorabilia, including posters from "The Joker" and "The Godfather." 
 
Saviano tells us that the Godfather movie is fundamental in the formation of mafiosi. They see themselves in the portrayal of the inner conflicts, 
 
 they live the same realities. But he also knows that the fact that Messina Denaro wasn't handcuffed after his arrest sent a message. 
 
Carabinieri wants to show the boss is totally collaborative, he tells us. 
 
Messina Denaro chose not to attend his first court date last week which is his right under Italian law. His next court date is March 9th for the 
 
 deadly bombings of two anti-mafia judges in Sicily in 1992. Prior to his arrest the last time the senior Denaro was thought to have been seen in 
 
 public was in 1993. But it is becoming clear that he led an open life in this small town of Sicily where some of his alleged hideouts were found. 
 
 And that Omerta, the code of silence that protects mafiosi also protected him. 
 
Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN, Rome. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS: Hiding in plain sight, fascinating. Well, how's this for a close encounter? An asteroid brushed very close to earth on Thursday night. NASA 
 
 says that the space rock about the size of a box truck, zipped over the southern hemisphere, making one of the closest approaches to our planet 
 
 ever recorded. Just over 3500 kilometers. NASA says there was no real risk of it striking the earth, and if it came close, it would've turned into a 
 
 fireball and broken it into smaller meteorites. That's good news. 
 
All right, "WORLD SPORT" with Amanda Davis is after the break, with all the news from the Australian Open and the finals. Stay with CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END