Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: At least 7 Injured In Boston Mass Shooting; Trump Pushes For Delay Amid Requests For Speedy Trial; Thousands Gathering For 60th Anniversary Of MLK Speech; Interview With Andrea Young; FIFA Provisionally Suspends Spanish Soccer Chief; Russia's War On Ukraine; Interview With Senator Chris Coons (D-DE); 90+ Million Under Excessive Heat Alerts Today. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired August 26, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:23] 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Saturday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
This breaking news out of Boston where police say at least seven people have been injured in a mass shooting during the city's Caribbean festival. 
 
Let's get to CNN's Polo Sandoval with what we're learning thus far, Polo. 
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Fred, at this point, we have zero indication according to police that there's any active threat to the public, but the investigation is certainly just getting underway here. It's in its infancy stage.
 
I want to get you straight to what Boston police have actually confirmed so far. As you look at some of these pictures that have come in, police have confirmed that at least seven people were hurt during a situation that played out earlier this morning at about 7:00 a.m. 
 
All of them are expected to survive, so there are no life-threatening injuries. And we do understand, as we just saw from the pictures a short while ago that this incident interrupted what was supposed to be Boston's Caribbean festival which usually features about two parades. The first of which was getting ready to actually begin early this morning when those shots rang out. You could see at least one vehicle that was damaged there. 
 
Doing some digging, this is supposed to be a moment to celebrate, usually draws in large crowds and families that will line the streets there in Boston's Dorchester neighborhood, but in the past, it h as also attracted some violence and has resulted in various incidents that I have been able to see here, at least confirm officially either authorities or from previous reporting from our local affiliates there. 
 
So it certainly wouldn't be surprising that there would have been likely an increased police presence to make sure that people felt reassured that they were safe. 
 
But unfortunately, again, we can confirm that this shooting that took place earlier this morning, though a motive remains unclear, did result in at least that delay, if not potential cancellation of some of the festivities. 
 
Though I should note that we have not officially heard from the city yet in terms of what the rest of the day will have in store. 
 
But these pictures will really tell you everything you need to know of everything that's left behind. Some police patrol cars there that were damaged in what was likely a very chaotic situation. 
 
I should note Fred, that in the next hour or so, we should hear from Boston authorities, potentially from city officials and police department officials, they will likely provide a clear picture of what took place. But again, the main takeaways right now as we send things back to you, is that it was at about 7:00  a.m. as crowds were gathering there to participate in Boston's Caribbean festival when shots rang out resulting in the injury of seven people. All of them, according to police, are expected to survive. 
 
WHITFIELD: Well, that is the good news. But what a terrible situation in what should have been a fun Saturday morning event in celebration turns to that. 
 
All right. Polo Sandoval, keep us posted. Thank you so much. 
 
All right. Now to the new developments in the fast-moving Georgia election interference case. Two of the pro-Trump attorneys charged in the case are now asking for speedy trials. Sidney Powell has joined Ken Chesebro in requesting quick trials. 
 
A judge had already scheduled October 12 for Chesebro and in response to the request, Fulton County district attorney Fani Willis wants the trial for all 19 defendants at the end of October. 
 
But the defense team for former president Donald J. Trump is trying to delay the start. Trump and his 18 co-defendants are facing a variety of charges, including racketeering and conspiracy. 
 
They all surrendered ahead of yesterday's noon deadline. This morning one of the 19 co-defendants remains in the Fulton County jail. 
 
Last night a judge declined to set bond for Harrison Floyd, a leader of Black Voices for Trump. And during a hearing, he told the judge he could not afford to hire an attorney. The judge informed him that he didn't meet the eligibility requirements for obtaining a public defender. 
 
CNN's Jeremy Herb is tracking all the developments. Jeremy, walk us through what is next in the case overall? 
 
JEREMY HERB, CNN POLITICS REPORTER: Yes, Fred. Now that we have all 19 defendants surrendered, we get into this kind of sprawling situation of what comes next and how the process of this trial plays out. It's complicated because, as you said, not all 19 defendants want the
 
 same thing. Two of the defendants so far, they have made a request for a speedy trial and a judge has approved Kenneth Chesebro's request to hold the trial in October.
 
As you said, the district attorney, she would like to hold the trial for all 19 defendants in October, but the former president, he wants to push that back just as he wants to delay the trials in his other cases. 
 <br>[11:04:59]
 
HERB: And that's just the first of what our potentially several disagreements both between the district attorney and the defendants and also among the defendants.
 
We have also seen five of the 19 defendants, they that have requested to move their cases from Georgia state court to federal court. It includes Mark Meadows, the former White House chief of staff, Jeffrey Clark the former DOJ official and three of the fake electors who were in Georgia and cast those votes for President Trump. 
 
Now what they are trying to do is move their case into federal court for a variety of reasons. One of which is that it could help them with the jury pool that goes beyond Fulton County and potentially gives them more pro Trump jurors, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Jeremy Herb, we'll leave it there for now. Thanks so much.
 
All right. With me right now to talk more about all these developments is Michael Zeldin. He is a former prosecutor and served as Robert Mueller's special assistant at the Department of Justice. 
 
All right. Good to see you.
 
Let me begin with your reaction to this new filing from Sidney Powell asking for a speedy trial. And this comes after fellow codefendant Kenneth Chesebro made the same kind of request. 
 
Why is this a wise request? 
 
MICHAEL ZELDIN, FORMER PROSECUTOR: Well, they want to go to trial right away. I think that they believe that they have a triable case and they don't want to wait or sit next to all of the other defendants. 
 
So there maybe a trial with just these two people, unless the judge says somehow says we're not going to sever you two from that. 
 
But normally, if they get a request like this, they go to trial. And there are advantages and disadvantages. 
 
The advantages to the non-tried defendants, Trump and the 17 others, is they get a preview of the evidence. They get to sit in the back of the courtroom and watch. The bad news is that Sidney Powell and Chesebro might well, as you
 
 would expect, point the finger at Trump and say, we were following his orders. We were just doing what he told us. 
 
He's the culprit. We're just, you know, sort of  victims of his criminality and he's not in the courtroom to defend himself. And that evidence just comes in and comes in and comes in blaming Trump for everything. 
 
So, there's a plus and a minus to these guys' request. And we'll see how the judge plays it with respect to joining the other ones in or letting them be separate and distinct. 
 
WHITFIELD: So those are the pros and con cons for the defendants. What about for the prosecution? 
 
ZELDIN: Well, for the prosecution it means essentially they have to try their case twice. They can put in a bit of a streamlined case against these two, but they still have to prove the racketeering enterprise and that they were in a conspiracy to violate the law and that they did certain overt acts, racketeering acts in furtherance of the conspiracy. 
 
So they put in their case and then they say this was the role that these guys played in a conspiracy. So they have to do it twice which is very burdensome, but it's not unheard of. 
 
Trials like this often with that many defendants get split up. And so the prosecutors are ready to do this twice. And it won't be too painful for them. 
 
WHITFIELD: So early on we heard from the district attorney Fani Willis that all of them would be tried at once, but we can see now, I mean a, that would be very complicated because you've got so many people. And then you have, you know, these individual pushes for a speedy trial or moves to be considered in a federal court versus where they are. 
 
So what is the likelihood of the severing of these cases? Or are we seeing that underway right now? 
 
ZELDIN: Well, in the state itself, within the state, we're seeing the request for speedy trials by two. And that would be in Georgia before a state judge with a state jury. 
 
The people who have moved for removal to send it to federal court, Meadows and some of the electors, and those people are trying to say we want a trial in the federal court, not here in the state court. 
 
And there's going to be a hearing about that and what they have to prove is that what they were doing as federal officials was acting within the scope of their employment as federal officials. They weren't doing something outside of the scope of their employment and that they have a defense as a federal official. 
 
That's a complicated case to make because generally speaking, violating the law, especially violating state election law, which is nothing that the federal employees have anything to do with, will be a hard case to make. 
 
But they can argue and the judge is going to make a decision. And if they get removed, it will be in federal court and maybe a little bit bigger jury pool. But in the end, I don't think it's outcome determinative of what will happen in this trial. The evidence is going to come in. The jury is going to decide whether these guys did this or didn't do it. 
 
WHITFIELD: Is it just a delay tactic? 
 <br>[11:09:55]
 
ZELDIN: Well no because if -- well, I say yes and no. No, in a sense that if it gets removed to federal court, they will then argue that they are immune from prosecution because they were federal employees acting in the scope of their employment. They get to have immunity. 
 
So that's not a delay tactic. That's a get the case dismissed tactic. 
 
But there's also, of course, the delay aspect to this while that is all being sorted. And of course, many of these defendants, like many defendants in trials all around the country, would prefer that they have reckoning to be postponed as long as possible. 
 
WHITFIELD: So even in the case of say Mark Meadows, you know, who is asking that his case, and the hearing will be on Monday, be moved to a federal court. Even though you say, you know, you need to -- a federal employee needs to be able to establish that they were acting in the scope of employment, as the former chief of staff, can he simply say, you know, he made me do it. I mean the president of the United States made me do it, whether it was allegedly illegal or not? 
 
ZELDIN: Well, he can say that. But I don't know that that really works. If for example, the president of the United States said to him, I want you to go out and rob a bank. That would not be something that he could say well, the president told me to do it and I did it and therefore I'm immune from prosecution because that's not clearly within the scope of anyone's employment in the federal government. 
 
So the question will be when he said go get false electors, go set up meetings so I can pressure people, is that sort of an order like go rob a bank and therefore not protected, or is it within the scope of his employment just on the edges of it then he gets the protection. That's what the court is going to have to try to figure out. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Michael Zeldon, we'll leave it there for now. Thank you so much. 
 
ZELDIN: Thanks Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Coming up, live pictures out of Washington, D.C. Tens of thousands of people are expected to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the march on Washington. The daughter of civil rights leader Andrew Young joining me next. 
 
Plus fallout continues over a controversial kiss the president of the Spanish Soccer Federation gave one of the team's star players at the world cup. Hear what punishment FIFA is handing out now. 
 <br>[11:12:17]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Not a commemoration, but a continuation. That's how organizers describe today's celebration of the 60th anniversary of the historic march on Washington. Thousands are gathering for the event today. 
 
On August 28th, 1963 more than 200,000 people filled the streets of the nation's capital in a fight for jobs and freedom. It was also the day Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his "I have a dream" speech on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. 
 
The march proved critical in helping to push for the passage of new laws including the Civil Rights Act on 1964 which outlawed overt racial discrimination.
 
CNN's Jason Carroll spoke with two activists who attended the historic march and got their perspective on where the fight for equality stands today. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It was a call for economic and racial equality, a call to action that brought more than 200,000 people to the National Mall in Washington, D.C. on August 28th 60 years ago, a day best rem remembered for Martin Luther King, Jr.'s historic "I have a dream" speech. 
 
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVIST: Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. 
 
CARROLL: Among the hundreds of thousands, two young activists who were filled with hope. 
 
COURTLAND COX, JOINED MARCH TO WASHINGTON: I was all the way at the top. 
 
CARROLL: All the way on the top, over to the left. 
 
COX: Yes, over to the left.
 
CARROLL: Courtland Cox is now 82, but 60 years ago he was a 22-year- old working for the civil rights organization, SNCC (ph), the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. 
 
COX: And what I remember is a platform is there in the mid-center. 
 
CARROLL: Edward Flanagan was there too. 
 
Where were you? 
 
EDWARD FLANAGAN, JOINED MARCH ON WASHINGTON: I was sitting on the wall up top there by the entertainers. CARROLL: Flanagan is 80 now, but on the day of the march, he was a 20-
 
 year-old who had just finished his shift as a waiter. Hike scores of others, he wanted to take a stand for civil rights. 
 
FLANAGAN: I was very close to Joan Baez. Ok, I was able to notice she was barefoot and I had on a new pair of shoes. 
 
CARROLL: She was barefoot. 
 
FLANAGAN: She was barefoot.
 
CARROLL: A march six decades ago now seen through the eyes of two different men who shared the same goal many did that day. 
 
FLANAGAN: It was, in fact, a march for jobs and freedom. 
 
COX: Our thought today is that we succeeded in changing this country. 
 
CARROLL: As a young organizer, Cox was responsible for arranging safe transportation for people making the trek from the south to Washington, D.C. He says there were challenges from top to bottom, much had to be done in very little time. 
 
COX: The challenge from the bottom was the logistics of getting people here. Over an (INAUDIBLE) period I'm trying to get trailways, buses. I'm trying to get greyhound buses. And the drivers are saying look, it's dangerous bringing people to the south. 
 
The challenge from the top was the Kennedy administration was opposed to John Lewis' speech. 
 
CARROLL: Cox worked alongside then 23-year-old civil rights activist John Lewis, who was the chairman of the SNCC. 
 
This picture shows the two as they rewrote the speech to tone it down to make it less critical of the Kennedy administration's civil rights bill, which they felt didn't go far enough to protect people from police brutality. 
 <br>[11:19:50]
 
COX: John Lewis, Jim (INAUDIBLE) and myself were in the back of the Lincoln Memorial rechanging John Lewis' speech to make sure that while it was critical, it was not negative. 
 
CARROLL: That had to have been an incredible moment. 
 
COX: Yes, but which was more incredible to me is that John got up after all of that controversy and delivered a fantastic speech. 
 
JOHN LEWIS, FORMER CONGRESSMAN: It is true that we support the administration's civil rights bill. We support it with great reservation, however. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I have never been here before. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You've never been -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I've never been here before. 
 
CARROLL: This week Flanagan brought his daughters back to the place history was made. He will be back again Saturday. 
 
FLANAGAN: That's the side where the entertainers were. 
 
CARROLL: Cox prefers to stay away this time saying his marching days are behind him. Both agree while much was accomplished that day, the work is not over. 
 
FLANAGAN: We are still, while in a much better place than we were in '63, not in the place where one would expect 60 years on.
 
COX: We've succeeded in doing a number of things by what we did in the past. But we also know that we have to do much more for the future.
 
CARROLL: Jason Carroll, CNN -- Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Among the many in attendance, Andrea Young. She is the executive director of the ACLU of Georgia and she's also the daughter of civil rights leader ambassador and Reverend Andy Young. 
 
Andrea, great to see you. 
 
ANDREA YOUNG, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, ACLU: Great to see you also. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Well, hopefully you can hear me ok because I know we're competing with the loud speak there. 
 
Your dad is among today's scheduled speakers. 
 
YOUNG: Yes.
 
WHITFIELD: He was a 31-year-old civil rights foot soldier during the march. And now at 91, remains a force. Has he shared with you how he's feeling today and what it's like for him today? 
 
YOUNG: Well, you know, this is a lot for him today. But I think, you know, today really stands for the commitment we have in this country to be a true democracy, a multi cultural, multi racial democracy.
 
And that's what they came here for 60 years ago. We made a lot of progress because today people are staying in hotels and eating in the restaurants but there's, of course, still a lot of work to be done. 
 
And some concerns about, you know, the pushback to full participation of every citizen in making the choices of who governs us in this democracy. 
 
So this is an important moment just that all of these folks from so many different organizations -- you know, black, white, Hispanic, Asian-American, Jewish, Christian, Muslim, you know, gay, straight, you know, young, old, people in wheelchairs, (INAUDIBLE) granddaughter, all here to stand for the principle that America is a democracy. And we are here to fight for that. 
 
WHITFIELD: And talk to me about the importance of how while organizers say you know, today is not a commemoration, but a continuation. It is a continuation in the fight for the rights for many communities including as you just mentioned and underscored, black people, immigrants, women, LGBTQ plus and those with low incomes. 
 
And the list of speakers and the involvement today is also very well- diverse. How important is it to bring that kind of variety of voices to the microphone and to the National Mall. 
 
YOUNG: Yes. I think it is -- it is very important and I think it shows the evolution of the movement be even more inclusive and to reach out to everyone who feels that they have been left behind, who feels (AUDIO GAP), who doesn't have access to the all the benefits of the society. 
 
And so the evolution of the movement and the continuation of the movement, we've broadened. We've broadened the reach, we've opened our arms. We are using, you know, we are coming together. Of course as the ACLU, we are a multi-issue organization. And so we have litigation around voting rights, around (INAUDIBLE) rights, around LGBTQ rights, around women's rights.
 
And so I think the movement has really involved to say as an American people, what does the truer equality look like for every single person in these United States. 
 
WHITFIELD: So the 1963 march, you know, was about pressuring U.S. Congress and state houses for equity in workplaces, by increasing the federal minimum wage, ensuring safety on the job and to fair housing just to name a few. 
 
We're still seeing those same concerns at the forefront today. You know, we heard from Edward Flanagan in the piece. He says, you know yes, we have come a long way, but I'm quoting him now, "we're not in a place we'd expect 60 years on".
 
So as a result, is there a feeling that these are insurmountable issues? 
 <br>[11:24:55]
 
YOUNG: Well now, I think that the diversity of this crowd, I think you have seen the evidence shows that people are determined. They are determined to fulfill what Dr. King said that America live up to the true meaning of its creed that all people are created equal. 
 
I think at our best, Americans are inspired by that example and certainly the thousands of people here are here to fulfill that commitment that America is true to its highest ideals and that we, you know, we go high, and that we are inspired by the best of America.
 
And certainly in 1964, '65, '65 -- we saw America standing up and living up to its best ideals. And we can do that again.
 
WHITFIELD: You know, to borrow the, you know, the spirit of the late John Lewis, who says you have to keep fighting, you know, we all have to continue to make good trouble. 
 
In the 60 years since the march, you know today there  continues to be a rise in nationalism, white supremacy, heightening discord, disputes over teaching and representing American history in public schools, you know, those are not representative of progress, these kind of continued fights. 
 
So how do you remain hopeful? How do you make sure that your granddaughter remains hopeful that there can indeed be progress -- more progress? 
 
YOUNG: Well, I think you know, you understand that this is why the vote is so important. And you know, we see the pressure. We see the court case going on in Georgia stand for the idea that the vote is sacred. 
 
And we have a majority. We believe that a majority of Americans believe in this vision of America. And that if all citizens vote, if voting is easy, if every vote counts the same, then this -- Dr. King's dream will be a reality. 
 
The things standing between us and achieving that dream is voter suppression, it is gerrymandering. It is voter intimidation, which is why the John Lewis Voting Rights Act is so important. 
 
But we can vote. The power is in our hands. And part of this -- important to this continuation at this time is the importance of everyone voting every time, every election, every year. 
 
And if it is difficult to vote, then we have many organizations here committee to helping people exercise their constitutional rights to vote. 
 
WHITFIELD: Andrea Young, thanks so much for being with us. And I know any moment now, your dad will be taking to the podium. Our best regards to the Reverend Andy Young as well. 
 
YOUNG: Thank you so much. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Coming up, the Spanish Soccer Federation is doubling down on its support for the group's president Luis Rubiales over his controversial kiss at the World Cup. The legal action the federation is threatening and the punishment FIFA just announced against Rubiales. Straight ahead. 
 <br>[11:28:13]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. New this morning, FIFA is stepping in after the president of the Spanish Football Federation refused to step down in the wake of controversy. FIFA is now provisionally suspending Luis Rubiales after he kissed the star Jennifer Hermosa following last Sunday's World Cup win.
 
The kiss prompted calls for Rubiales to resign, but he not only refused, he then claimed the kiss was consensual, a claim Hermoso vehemently denies. 
 
CNN's correspondent Al Goodman is following the story from Madrid. All, yet another stunning thing here is the Royal Spanish Football Federation is actually threatening to take legal action against the player, Hermoso. What is going on? 
 
AL GOODMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Fredricka. 
 
Well, the federation (INAUDIBLE) coming this Saturday just hours after Hermoso and 80 other players including many of the players on the winning World Cup team said they weren't going to play again for the Spanish team until Rubiales is removed. 
 
So the federation, which Rubiales controls, shot back in a statement on Saturday morning saying and also not just that the 80 players but also their union -- the Women Players Union saying the players have only obligation, that's the word they used, to come up and play for the national women's team if they are called. 
 
The federation reiterated that the kiss was consensual. They said that Rubiales did not lie and they said that it was Hermoso or people around her who were lying. And they provided photos, which they said backed up what they have to say.
 
But as you mentioned, Fredricka, FIFA is the world governing body for football and whose president was in Sydney, Australia on Sunday to give this trophy the World Cup trophy to Spain after they won it in that tight game against England one to nothing, FIFA saw it differently. 
 
Let me read you a bit of what their statement said. "The chairman of the FIFA disciplinary committee Jorge Ivan Palacio from Colombia, in use of the powers granted by Article 51 of the FIFA disciplinary code has decided today -- that's Saturday -- to provisionally suspend Mr. Luis Rubiales from all football related activities at the national and international level. 
 
This suspension which will be effective as of today is for an initial period of 90 days."
 
Now, a few hours went by and the federation here in Spain, the Spanish federation has reacted. And they said that a trusted deputy to Rubiales will take over for the interim period of the 90 days while Mr. Rubiales works to clear his name. The federation here says they support what FIFA is doing in this investigation. 
 <br>[11:34:58]
 
GOODMAN: But that's not the only problem for Rubiales and the federation because the Spanish government, which doesn't have the power to outright fire him, has to go through a procedure which they started on Saturday after he refused to -- after he refused to step down.
 
And they sent over a complaint to a sports court here in Spain for alleged abuse of authority and alleged denigrating the dignity of a sporting event. And we may hear more on that this coming week, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. So this is just one very big chapter, there's more. 
 
All right. Al Goodman, thank you so much. Keep us up-to-date there from Madrid. 
 
And this breaking news in this country, at least seven people have been injured in a shooting during Boston's Caribbean festival. At any moment now, their police chief and mayor are want expected to give an update. And we'll take you there live as it happens. 
 
Plus as Ukraine's counteroffensive grinds on, is support for U.S. still strong on Capitol Hill? Democratic Senator Chris Coons joining me live next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:40:03]
 
WHITFIELD: Russian officials say six civilians were injured in Ukrainian shelling into Russia's Belgorod region. Meantime, Ukraine says at least two people were killed in Russian shelling along the frontlines in the Kharkiv region. 
 
CNN's Melissa Bell is in Kyiv for us. 
 
Melissa, while the attention this week was on the apparent death of Wagner leader Yevgeny Prigozhin, the war in Ukraine and the counteroffensive continues to intensify. What is the latest? 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Continues to intensify and believe the Ukrainians, Fredricka make some progress, a glimmer of hope now around that village of Robotyne. 
 
What we understand is that they have managed to get sufficiently far beyond it. That much of the fighting is now concentrated to the south of the village.
 
It is extremely slow going of course, even now. You're talking about open terrain, much of it heavily mined, and it has been extremely costly for the Ukrainians to try and advance against these extremely well-defended and entrenched Russian positions. 
 
But what we're hearing not just from Ukrainian officials, but also from Russian military sources, the bloggers that follow what happens on the other side is that the gains have allowed this wedge to be created. That the Ukrainians will now try and substantially increase as they try and make their way strategically to the key, the Sea of Azov trying to break that crucial land bridge from one side of the Russian-held territory through to the Crimean Peninsula. Now, of course, what we have seen over the course of the last few days
 
 is a good deal of criticism of Ukrainian strategy that they should have allowed themselves to focus so largely on this thousand-kilometer front rather than focusing their efforts more specifically in the Zaporizhzhia region.
 
Now what Ukrainian officials and military sources tell us is that in fact they believe that this will be a winning strategy. These small successes that you're seeing around Robotyne and not just in and of themselves, they say but because it will force Russian forces to consolidate their positions and they hope allow breaches further along the line, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: All Right. Melissa Bell in Kyiv. Thanks so much. 
 
Let's bring in Senator Chris Coons. He's a Democrat from Delaware, a member of the House Foreign Relations Committee and chair of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee for Foreign Aid. Senator, good to see you.
 
Let's begin with the war in Ukraine. Is there a concern that the counteroffensive isn't achieving its goals and that Russia may have the momentum at this point? 
 
SENATOR CHRIS COONS (D-DE): Look, I think it's important we continue to provide support for Ukraine and their counteroffensive. They have made slow but steady progress. 
 
Unlike last summer where they made great big breakouts and took back significant pieces of territory. This summer they have been fighting against entrenched Russian forces who had months to lay mine fields, to build trench systems in depth. 
 
We didn't anticipate they were going to breakthrough and make very rapid advances. In fact, many military experts with whom I have spoken say there's still a good chance that the counteroffensive will pick up steam. 
 
They have gotten training. They have gotten new equipment, they have gotten resources, but frankly most importantly, they have the will to fight. 
 
They are determined to take back their country from the Russian invaders and occupiers, even though they are taking very heavy losses on the battlefield. 
 
And when Congress returns to session next month, I think it's particularly important that we show our ongoing support for them by taking up and passing the supplemental appropriations request President Biden submitted to Congress just a few weeks ago. 
 
WHITFIELD: And while you feel that there should be a continuation, you know, to provide support to Ukraine, are you concerned that you may noy have the same level of support in Congress to continue on with the same kind of commitment the U.S. has made to Ukraine? Is the support waning? COONS: Yes, of course, I'm concerned. Well, I don't think support is waning among the Senate. In the senate both Republicans and Democrats have made it clear privately and publicly they intend to continue investing in supporting Ukraine's fight for freedom. 
 
But what I saw on the debate stage Wednesday was the majority of the Republican candidates for president and former president Trump who wasn't on that stage, have been saying they are waning in their enthusiasm for supporting freedom, for supporting the fight in Ukraine. 
 
As you know, former president Trump called Putin a genius. And did a lot of things that were very unsettling to try and show favor, his admiration for the brutal dictator of Russia Vladimir Putin. 
 <br>[11:44:52]
 
And the events of this week where Prigozhin and the other two top leaders of Wagner were on a private jet that made a very sudden stop is a reminder that Putin continues to exact revenge against his opponents at home and abroad. 
 
I think it's a sad thing to see one party and its most senior campaign candidates suggesting that they no longer are as interested in supporting Ukraine's fight as their representatives and partners are in Congress. 
 
WHITFIELD: And I do want to ask you a bit about that, you know, Prigozhin plane in a second. But I do want to follow up on where you are and why you're in Dublin right now as part of a bipartisan delegation to discuss securing peace in Northern Ireland. 
 
But as it pertains to this war in Ukraine, what are foreign leaders asking you about how far the U.S. support will go, how much more global support is needed? 
 
COONS: Well, it's important to remind your viewers that our NATO allies and other partners around the world, more than 40 countries have provided as much support for Ukraine -- for Ukraine militarily, economically and by welcoming in millions of Ukrainian refugees. They have provided as much support as has the United States. 
 
But to answer your question in meetings in London and here in Dublin, and in other meetings I have been in throughout Europe and the rest of world over the last year and a half, virtually every one of our partners, friends and allies thank the United States for our leading role in pulling together NATO and our global partners in support of the Ukrainians. 
 
I think this says, in many ways has been President Biden's strongest, most effective moment of global leadership. But the, in the next breath, express grave concern that if former president Trump were to return to the White House, that we would step back from supporting Ukraine's fight and that we might make some significant mistakes that would harm our alliances and weaken our reputation in the world. So it is widely a topic of concern. I'm a part of a bipartisan and bicameral delegation, that means members of the House and Senate, Republican and Democrat. One group came over and visited Northern Ireland. Another group that I was a part of visited London. And then all of us met up here together this weekend for a celebration of the 25th anniversary of the Northern Ireland Peace Agreement. 
 
I actually last night over dinner got to meet one of the former leaders of Ireland, the Taoiseach who helped negotiate those accords. 
 
In all of the celebrations we've been a part of here, there is a recognition that Senator George Mitchell of the United States, President Bill Clinton and leaders of both parties over a long period of time contributed to bringing to an end the troubles in Northern Ireland. 
 
We have an excellent special envoy for Northern Ireland now, Joe Kennedy. And we have a role to play in helping move forward the positive progress that's been made in the Republic of Ireland and in the North of Ireland, in Northern Ireland. And it's my hope that we will see positive progress made in (INAUDIBLE) reconstituted.
 
But there are some concerning developments in the parliament in the United Kingdom and some unresolved questions that we need to address. 
 
So I'm glad I was a part of this bipartisan group. I'll return to Washington more determined than ever to play a constructive role in the path forward for the Irish people, the Irish Republic and Northern Ireland. 
 
WHITFIELD: Ok. And then quickly back to that plane that went down in Russia. Do you believe that Russia -- that Putin is behind it? 
 
COIONS: Me personally, yes I do. 
 
But that's not based on any classified briefing. President Biden has said publicly that we don't know for sure, but he would not be at all surprised. 
 
It was two months to the day from Wagner's brief rebellion and the top leaders -- all three top leaders of Wagner were on board. Awfully convenient for Putin, who is trying to bring Wagner to heel and to continue his long practice of undermining attacking or assassinating his critics and opponents both at home and abroad. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right.
 
And now Senator, on to other domestic matters. The arrest of the former President Trump this week following his indictment. President Biden has continued to say no comment, but then he said, you know, "handsome guy" in reaction to the mug shot. 
 
So at what point do you think the White House or the president has to have some uniform message about a former president's arrest and indictments? COONS: I think President Biden is doing the right thing by showing the
 
 American people he's continuing to lead. We're seeing record numbers of jobs created in manufacturing, record recovery compared to all of the other developed countries that also came through the economic hardships of the pandemic. 
 <br>[11:49:55]
 
COONS: And he's reducing the cost to your average American family is facing by implementing the prescription drug price reductions of the Inflation Reduction Act, by investing in American manufacturing and the transition to a clean energy economy. 
 
That's the thing that President Biden should be focused on. I think it's appropriate for others of us who are in politics to comment on the former president, his striking mug shot and, frankly, the very unsettling ways in which he's taking his mug shot and turning it into a fund-raising vehicle for his reelection campaign. 
 
But President Biden's focused on the things your average American worries about -- the costs their facing, growing jobs, keeping us safer and stronger here at home and strengthening our alliances around the world. 
 
That's what I think he should be doing and leaving the rest to the commentators, like you and me. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Well, I'm not a commentator, but if you want to take on that title, that's cool. 
 
All right. Senator Chris Coons, good to see you. Thank you so much. Safe travels.
 
COONS: Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. More straight ahead. Stay with us. 
 <br>[11:51:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Turning to scorching heat gripping the country, we're joined now by CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar in the Weather Center. Allison, what more can you tell us. It's hot.
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Right. I can tell you there is light at the end of the tunnel -- 
 
WHITFIELD: Ok.
 
CHINCHAR: -- but for most folks, you just got to get through the weekend. Yes, so we still have a lot of extreme heat alerts across portions of the south and you're also starting to see more of them pop up across the southwest. 
 
And that's really where we're expecting to see those temperatures jump considerably in the next couple of days. Palm Springs going from 114 Sunday up to 117 on Monday. Phoenix also seeing those temperatures get about ten degrees above average. Even Sacramento, well above where they should be this time of year. 
 
Now, in the eastern half of the country different story. Just two days ago this red color was all the way up through Minneapolis. 
 
We're starting to see it retreat into the Midwest and eventually it will gradually continue to push farther southward just not quite there just yet.
 
Houston going from 104 today, 107 Sunday, finally back below triple digits on Monday. New Orleans similar, still triple digits the next two days but finally Fred, we will get there next week. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh my gosh. Get us out of the triple digit summer.
 
Allison Chinchar, thank you so much. 
 
CHINCHAR: Thanks, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still ahead, we're continuing to follow new details out of Boston. We're awaiting on an update from officials at any moment now. 
 
Stay with us. 
 <br>[11:56:38]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)