Headline: Early Start with John Berman and Zoraida Sambolin
Sub-headline: Israel's Cabinet Approves Deal to Release Hostages; U.S. Intel Signals Wagner Group Could Arm Hezbollah; Judge Declines to Send Trump Co-Defendant to Jail Over Posts; Colorado Supreme Court to Hear Appeals in Trump Ballot Case; Winds, Rain Hit the Northeast Ahead of Thanksgiving Day Aired 5-5:30a ET

Aired November 22, 2023 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:30]
 
ANNOUNCER:  This is CNN breaking news.
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR:  Good morning to our viewers in the United States and around the world. I'm Kasie Hunt. It's Wednesday, November 22nd. It's 5:00 a.m. here in Washington. It's noon in Israel, where overnight, Israel's full cabinet approved a deal with Hamas that would release at least 50 hostages in Gaza. 
 
It comes after an intense six hour-long meeting in Tel Aviv. Those said to be freed are expected to be women and children. In exchange, Israel says it will pause its fighting in Gaza for four days. Hamas says the deal includes 150 Palestinian prisoners, also women and children, to be released from Israeli jails. More humanitarian aid would also be allowed into Gaza with hundreds of trucks carrying fuel and supplies. 
 
President Biden issued a statement saying, quote: Today's deal should bring home additional American hostages and I will not stop until they are all released. 
 
Three Americans could be released in this batch, including a three- year-old girl, Abigail Idan. 
 
Her great aunt spoke to CNN earlier. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIZ HIRSH NAFTALI, GREAT AUNT OF 3-YEAR-OLD HOSTAGE ABIGAIL EDAN: The one thing that we all hold on to is that hope that Abigail comes home, she comes home by Friday, Friday is her fourth birthday. We actually need to see Abigail come out and then we will be able to be -- to believe it. 
 
(END VIDOE CLIP)
 
HUNT:  The deal was brokered by Qatar following weeks of negotiations with assistance from the U.S. and Egypt. 
 
CNN's Oren Liebermann is live for us in Tel Aviv. Oren, good morning to you. 
 
What happens next? 
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, Kasie. 
 
Right now, as part of the legal and political process to get this truly over the finish line, there is a 24 hour window in which appeals can be filed to the Israeli Supreme Court against this deal. As that process plays out, we are awaiting the agreement to begin. That is the pause in fighting, as we understand it, there is still fighting going on and got as we speak, and then the prisoner exchange, the release of hostages from Hamas and Gaza, for the release of Palestinian prisoners, here. So, that, we expect just on that 24 hour window of appeals, to begin sometime tomorrow morning. We'll see if there are additional hurdles, but it is incredible to have gotten to this point after weeks of very sensitive negotiations. 
 
Now, it is also interesting to point out, this first tranche has 50 Israeli women and children released from Gaza in exchange for 150 Palestinian women and children held in Israeli prisons. But the Israeli government put out a list of 300 names and said, in announcing the agreement, that for every ten Israelis released, there would be another day of pause in the fighting and that would lead to another 30 Palestinian prisoners released. 
 
So, it seems that Israel is setting up for the possibility that the pause in fighting lasts more than four days. 
 
HUNT:  Really, really interesting. 
 
How is this being received among the Israeli public and the families of the hostages, because, of course, they are all having to wait -- to see, you know, is the person I left on this list right now? This has to be just a very, very difficult process to go through. 
 
LIEBERMANN:  Absolutely. We have spoken with a number of the families of the hostages who say they are still anxious. They were nervous up until the agreement was finally formalized and agreed to by the Israeli government. They knew they were close, but until they were over the line and had that agreement in place, they knew it could still fall apart, and that, in and of itself, rate them very nervous. 
 
But amongst the families of the 240 hostages, there is, generally speaking, broad support. They know their loved ones may not be on that first list, but it is a process that is beginning and at least one family we spoke with says, look, the first 50 could lead to more, and this process could get going. 
 
The important part is to get enough of a relationship in place that these discussions can continue and it is obviously much more easier to continue the discussions on the release of more hostages after the first batch is released, instead of having to start from square zero. Now, it's worth noting that 50 hostages is only about 20 percent of the 240 hostages. It is only women and children, so there are no men included. And crucially, from what we understand, there is nobody who is the age
 
 of being a soldier in the Israeli military, or perhaps even a reservist. It is possible Hamas wants to extract a far higher price for that group. So, even if we are at this point, there is still a long way to go until all of the hostages are home. 
 
HUNT:  All right. Oren Liebermann for us in Tel Aviv, thank you for that. 
 
With us now to talk more about this, Lieutenant General Ben Hodges, the former commander of U.S. Army Forces in Europe. 
 
General, thank you very much for being with us. 
 <br>[05:05:00]
 
Can you talk to us a little bit about logistically, how they pull off something like this? As we know, these hostages have been scattered throughout the Gaza Strip. 
 
LT. GENERAL BEN HODGES (RET.), FORMER COMMANDER OF U.S. ARMY FORCES IN EUROPE:  Well, Kasie, I imagine that the Israeli government and Israeli defense force will be prepared with medical attention, as well as psychiatric and mental health care. These people have been through an incredible ordeal, as you have been reporting for weeks now. 
 
So, that will be part of the reception. They won't just give them and hand them over to their families. I would also expect that there will be some debriefing, if you will. I mean, several of these people will probably be able to report some what on the conditions, who else they know is -- as they continue to count for the other hostages. 
 
HUNT:  Yeah. I mean, can you tell me a little bit more about that? I mean, what kind of intelligence might these people be able to have that could help the Israelis and the fight to bring the rest of them home. 
 
HODGES:  Well, three things come to mind right away. Number one, who else is out there? You know, what is the condition of other people that may have been around you? I don't know, Hamas may have kept all these people totally isolated but that would be quite a challenge. So, they might be able to get information on the status of -- and the condition of other hostages that are still out there. That would be number one. 
 
Number two, I would imagine that the IDF, the Israeli Defense Force, would want to know some sense of the Hamas soldiers that are still out there. What kind of condition are they in, mentally, physically, because they have been taking a pounding as well for the last several weeks. 
 
And then, I think the third part will be a sense of location. I mean, what -- where were you, what kind of tunnels, what kind of weapons, what did you see? 
 
Now, of course, you know, children will have -- may not be as effective and doing this given their trauma, but they still will have seen things. So, I expect the IDF will be skilled and patient in how they try to find out more. 
 
HUNT:  Yeah. Can't -- we talk briefly about the military implications of the pause in the fighting and our Oren Liebermann was just reporting that Israel maybe willing to pause for additional days if it means that additional hostages are coming out. 
 
What does it say that we got to the skill about their military campaign so far against Hamas? And what implications do -- does the pause in fighting have? 
 
HODGES:  So, of course, every soldier knows that, ultimately, your civilian authority is the authority. And so, what the government wants to do, that is what is most important. So, while it might not be ideal from a purely military standpoint, what is most important is accomplished in the political objective. And the government, of course, has been under enormous pressure from their own population as well as from the U.S. to do something to get these hostages -- to start getting the hostages moving and to get them home. 
 
So, I think the Israeli Defense Force probably was not real keen on any sort of a pause. I mean, this also tells me that Hamas is really under pressure as well, that they are finally -- to finally make a deal like this and release 50 hostages, if this happens, means they have been getting pounded. 
 
Now, the thing that was most -- would have been most annoying to me was the fact that, supposedly, there's going to be a window of time every day when they can not have drones overhead. You don't like to be a genius to figure out that Hamas will use that time to move some things around. 
 
But, the Israelis of course have more than just overhead drone capabilities, so, I think they probably calculated what the risk, the cost might be, and I mentioned they will also continue to be able to do things that are non-kinetic, such as continue searching for tunnels, clearing things out, trying to make the best out of the situation. But it will be challenging. 
 
HUNT:  All right. Lieutenant General Ben Hodges, thank you so much for being with us this morning. I really appreciate your time, sir. 
 
And still ahead here, much more on the role the Biden administration played in this deal to release the hostages held in Gaza. 
 
And, new U.S. intelligence on Russia's Wagner mercenaries. They could pose a new threat to Israel. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:13:54]
 
HUNT:  Welcome back.
 
The White House has just declassified intelligence confirming the Wagner Group, the Russian mercenary organization, is preparing to assist either Hezbollah or Iran. National Security Council spokesman John Kirby says air defense capabilities being offered at the suggestion of Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
 
Let's bring in CNN's Max Foster for more on this. 
 
Max, good morning. It's always good to see you. 
 
What's the 30,000 foot view on this? 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, it's interesting. There has been a much closer relationship that appears between Iran and Russia since Russia invaded Ukraine, last year. So, we are looking at whether or not Russia helping Iran or its proxies like Hezbollah is part of a deal for Iran also to support Russia and its war in Ukraine. So, a lot of dynamics really changing here. 
 
A lot of people would suggest, a lot of analysts would suggest, Hezbollah and Iran are the same thing. But if this -- this weaponry goes to Hezbollah, obviously, that creates a much more threatening northern front for Israel against Lebanon. So, it plays into two conflicts, potentially, if these weapons to end up in Hezbollah's hands. 
 <br>[05:15:02]
 
If it is strictly for Iran, then I think it is much more about Ukraine and how to strengthen Russia's hand there. 
 
HUNT:  Right, well, we know the U.S. has been so forward about its attempts to contain the conflict, sending carrier groups to the region, et cetera, just the act of declassifying this information, I think, is also designed to be kind of a public -- public warning sign to the Russians and to Putin. 
 
Max, let's talk about the breaking news overnight, this hostage deal, and particularly the temporary truce or pause in the fighting. The word cease-fire is very loaded. But the reality is there are so many different groups in Gaza that sort of act independently. They may be talking a little bit to each other, but they act independently of each other. 
 
If one of them violates this so-called truce and there is a rocket that goes off or is fired at Israel, how does that impact what we expect to see over the next couple of days? 
 
FOSTER:  Well, I spoke to a former adviser to the defense department there in Israel, that very question last hour, and he said the truce would be over if a rocket left from Gaza and went into Israel. As you say, there are three groups, we understand, holding hostages, in Gaza. That's what a lot of intelligence is suggesting. 
 
So, if there is some sort of politics between those two groups, a rocket goes off, the truce will be over. These are all details which we are trying to get confirmation on from Israel. I mean, what is their bar for a break in that truce? They may have a different view. We need to find out from them, but there is, you know, experts are saying it would be over if a rocket came over. 
 
It would also, of course, play to the far right in Israel, which wasn't really happy with this truce, anyway, their view, or some of the politicians and that sphere of politics view is that you should never ever negotiate with terrorists. And they will be proved right, arguably, if truce is broken by Hamas, which they view as terrorists breaking the truce. 
 
HUNT:  Max, isn't one of the major issues here, the communications or lack thereof with these groups in Gaza, too? I mean, as we were reporting the contours of this deal coming together, yesterday, you know, simply getting information from the political wing of Hamas in Qatar into the Gaza strip talk to the militants working their, seems like -- I think we are used to, in the modern world, picking up our phones and texting people. 
 
That's not how this works, and I think that could easily impact -- if something were to happen and we were in a fog of war situation around this truce, that could be a real barrier to keeping things on track. 
 
FOSTER:  Yeah. I mean, so far, the system that Qatar is working with does seem to be working, you know, the political group of Hamas in Qatar, who they are speaking to are managing to get messages through to the military side. As you say, there are different groups within Gaza fighting for, effectively, the same thing.
 
But so far, Hamas does seem to have a -- certainly giving indications they know where all the hostages are, despite them not holding all of them, personally. So, it does seem as though the system is holding up, at the moment. But we don't know enough about the politics between those three groups currently and under this immense amount of pressure from Israel, how that's playing out. But certainly wanted to watch, and it is and other complications to what is a hugely complicated political and military situation, right now. 
 
HUNT:  All right. Max Foster for us in London, thank you much for being there. I will see you on Monday since it's Thanksgiving here in the United States. 
 
FOSTER:  Enjoy. 
 
HUNT:  Thank you as always, my friend. 
 
All right. Coming up next here, the House Judiciary Committee subpoenas a federal prosecutor in Hunter Biden's -- in the probe into Hunter Biden's taxes. What could the testimony of an assistant U.S. attorney bring to their case? 
 
And, Mother Nature could slow down your ride to grandma's house. The Thanksgiving getaway forecast, up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:23:41]
 
HUNT:  Welcome back. We have got quick hits across America right now.
 
In Georgia, the judge overseeing the election racketeering case is adding new social media restrictions to one of Donald Trump's codefendants. Harrison Floyd will not be sent to jail for posts he made targeting witnesses in the case. 
 
Colorado's highest court will hear arguments next month appealing the state's 14th Amendment willing to keep Donald Trump's name on the ballot. The issue is whether its ban on insurrectionists applies to the presidency. 
 
And, CNN has learned the House Judiciary Committee has subpoenaed an assistant U.S. attorney in its Hunter Biden investigation. An IRS whistleblower claimed Lesley Wolf stymied efforts to obtain warrants and subpoenas. 
 
All right. Let's get now to weather. Wind and heavy rain hitting the Northeast on what is the busiest travel day of the year in the U.S., ahead of Thanksgiving, tomorrow. And this weather not done yet. 
 
Meteorologist Allison Chinchar tracking all of it for you. 
 
Allison, good morning. What should people heading out the door today be looking for? 
 
ALLISON CHINCAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Yeah, a little bit of everything. Good morning, Kasie. 
 
Yeah, the biggest problems we have right now are actually mostly up and down the East Coast. On this southern side, the main concern here is the rain. Some thunderstorms at times, and even some gusty winds stretching from Florida up to Virginia. Now, on the northern side, the concern is rain. 
 <br>[05:25:01]
 
It is heavy at times, but also some of that snow really starting to filter in across Upstate New York, portions of Vermont, New Hampshire, and even Maine. And then, gusty winds now but really going to ramp up as we go through the rest of the day. 
 
So, you've got these winter weather advisories out for several states, here. Snow totals in most of these areas about six inches, obviously, when you start going up in those higher elevations in the green and white mountains, you could end up getting closer to a foot. 
 
Here's a look. The system, again, is going to continue to spread off to the north and east. Once we get towards the afternoon hours, we'll finally start to see things dry out across New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, still some of those lingering showers, however, across Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. 
 
But by late this evening, we finally start to see a lot of this area began to dry out. However, the winds will still be there. So, keep in mind, you are still going to have very gusty winds, maybe 30 or 40 miles an hour for much of the northeast. 
 
Overall, the heaviest rain is going to be across the Carolinas, 2 to 4 inches, snow is going to be the focus up across the Northeast. Again, we talked about most areas six inches, but some as much as a foot. 
 
HUNT:  All righty, a white Thanksgiving. 
 
Alison Chinchar, thank you very much for that and a happy Thanksgiving to you. 
 
CHINCHAR:  Thanks. You, too. 
 
HUNT:  All right. Breaking news this morning, the deal to release at least 50 hostages held by Hamas in exchange for a pause in the fighting. We'll give you the full details, coming up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)