Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Menendez and Wife Charged with Bribery; Over 8,000 Migrants Cross Border in 24 Hours; 2024 Presidential Race Poll Numbers; New York Band Camp Bus Crash; Champions for Change Harry Miller. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired September 22, 2023 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:32:02] 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: We do have breaking news that will have ripple effects in Washington and beyond. New Jersey Democratic Senator Bob Menendez, who is the chair of the -- 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: House Foreign Relations - or Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
 
BERMAN: Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He's being charged with corruption-related charges for the second time in ten years. He was charged and indicted before and there was a hung jury, and now he's being charged again for something completely different. 
 
Let's get right to Kara Scannell for the details on this. 
 
Kara, what are you learning? 
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, John, so the U.S. attorney's office here in lower Manhattan has announced that they have brought bribery charges against Senator Menendez and his wife. Now, according to the prosecutor's office, that they allege that Menendez and his wife have received hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes that they had done -- then used to help three New Jersey businessmen and the government of Egypt. This investigation has been going on for several years and sources have told CNN that they have sent out rings of subpoenas to people seeking information about some of these businessmen and these relationships.
 
Now, one of the businessmen is someone who has known Menendez's wife for a long time. He is someone that had obtained the exclusive right to export and certify Halal meat to Egypt. That has been a focus of this investigation.
 
And another one of the businessmen is a New Jersey developer. And prosecutors were asking questions about him, his communications with the senator and his wife. 
 
So, as you said, though, this is the second time in ten years that Senator Menendez has been charged with bribery and corruption. The first time he did go to trial to fight those charges, it ended in a mistrial and then the judge had thrown out some of the case - some of the remaining charges, and the Department of Justice decided not to retry him. But now this is a second time he is facing criminal charges, bribery charges, for allegedly receiving hundreds of thousands of dollars, him and his wife facing these charges. 
 
Now, I've reached out to his attorney. I've not yet heard a comment. But Menendez was on CNN in April saying that he was confident that this investigation would end without any charges. But he is indicted today and we'll learn more from the U.S. attorney's office, who will be holding a press conference about two hours from now.
 
John. 
 
BERMAN: All right, we will wait to hear that press conference in a little bit. That's 11:00 a.m. 
 
And, Kara, if you have your earpiece back in, I just want to make one thing clear, I'm looking at the timeline here. The last corruption case ended in a mistrial, a hung jury, and then charges were thrown out, but the activities he's being charged with today, along with his wife, happened after the last case. If you're looking at a timeline here, he was charged, not found guilty, but then did more stuff he's being charged for now, allegedly? 
 
SCANNELL: Yes, John, that's - yes, John, that's right. I mean so despite having gone through a federal criminal trial that lasted for weeks and weeks on end, he is now under indictment again for taking -- allegedly taking bribes from three New Jersey businessmen, you know, subsequent to that indictment. 
 <br>[09:35:06]
 
And what was also interesting here is that the Supreme Court has actually made it harder for prosecutors to bring corruption and bribery cases involving public officials. So, it will be interesting to take a full look at what the evidence is in this case because they have made it harder to prosecute people for bribery and what constitutes an official act. So, I haven't had a chance to read through all the payments of the indictment, but that's one thing that I'll be looking for to see exactly what these allegations are and what acts he had taken, particularly that he had taken after he was already gone through this on trial. 
 
So, definitely interesting development here. And, as you said, Menendez is the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, a sitting U.S. senator, now being indicted for the second time on bribery charges. 
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, Kara Scannell, we'll let you dig through the indictment. We are waiting for this news conference at 11:00. 
 
Just one historical note, as Kara was stating there, the Supreme Court did make it harder to convict public officials on corruption charges like this. It had to do with a case involving former Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell in a case that was actually brought by special counsel Jack Smith. So, a tie in here to a lot of different stuff going on.
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Wow. That is something. 
 
All right, we're going to continue to follow that. There's clearly a lot of developing news happening this morning.
 
But we're also watching this right now. The administration is now deploying hundreds of additional military personnel to the southern border because of the latest surge of migrants. Nearly 9,000 crossings were recorded in the past 24 hours. 
 
This new video that we're showing you is -- shows the moment a migrant family pulls a child through the barbed wire essentially, and pulls other - and others are coming through that barbed wire as well, right in front of authorities in Eagle Pass, Texas. The mayor of that city saying President Biden bears, quote, some responsibility for the crisis. 
 
Let's go there. CNN's Ed Lavandera is in Eagle Pass for us an he's joining us now. 
 
Ed, what is the very latest there today? 
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Kate, the scenes here in Eagle Pass dramatically different from what we saw 24 hours ago. This area of the Rio Grande on the edge of Eagle Pass has been the area where we've seen thousands of people crossing in the last few days. But this morning really dramatically different. And we've been able to see across the Rio Grande here. A much heavier presence on that side this morning of Mexican law enforcement, state police, perhaps some local police and definitely some Mexican military vehicles that have been going up and down that area where so many migrants have been staging. 
 
In fact, there's really just been a handful of people crossing this morning. In fact, you can see out there in the little island in the middle of the river, there's a group of three migrants that have come by. You'll notice that two of them are wearing life jackets. There was a group of Texas state law enforcement on an air boat that went over to that little island just moments ago, before we came on air, and threw those two life jackets to two of those migrants so that they could walk safely through the river over here on to this side. And this is clearly a sign of just how dangerous and desperate the situation has been. In the last three days, two people have died, swept away, drowned in the current of the river. And one of those victims included a three-year-old boy. 
 
So, this is the area, Kate, where we saw hundreds showing up yesterday. And you can see all this razor wire. And many times they have come across, they're standing there just at the bottom of the river's edge trying to figure out how to get through the razor wire and turn themselves in either to state police here in Texas or to border authorities. 
 
So, we're trying to figure out exactly what is going on, on the other side because the mayor here in Eagle Pass says they've been bracing for this number and this magnitude of migrants crossing here into Eagle Pass to continue. The mayor told us last night that he was in a meeting with federal law enforcement here in the area and they told them that there were 50,000 to 60,000 migrants entering southern Mexico. And the question becomes where exactly are all of these people going to go? 
 
And, of course, this is very -- it's almost impossible to predict really exactly what happens. There's many things that could happen to large groups of migrants as they make their way through Mexico. They disperse into different areas. Maybe they didn't end up making the journey all together. But it's the kind of news that local officials along the southern border here are bracing for as they try to prepare and get a sense of what might be coming in the days and weeks ahead. 
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes, well, as their - as their shelters are already hitting capacity. When you hear those numbers, what could be coming, it has to raise alarm for sure. 
 
Ed, thank you so much for your continued reporting on this. 
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, for the first time in a while, a poll gives the Biden re-election campaign something to smile about. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:44:16]
 
BOLDUAN: A new CNN poll out this morning shows some promising signs for President Biden's re-election campaign. In a potential 2024 rematch with Donald Trump in New Hampshire, Biden has the advantage, leading Trump by 12 points. 
 
Let's get over to CNN's Jessica Dean. She's got much more on this new poll for us. 
 
And, Jessica, we're also seeing -- there's also a new read today on Biden's approval rating in the state as well. What are you seeing? 
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right.
 
So, Kate, this is our first state-specific poll of this cycle. And if these numbers continue to hold for President Biden, it is very good news for him. As you noted, of course, New Hampshire has historically been a battleground state. But if you really dive into these numbers, it looks like potentially it could be just swinging a little bit blue. 
 
So, let's look at some of the numbers within this polling that we got. 
 <br>[09:45:01]
 
When we asked New Hampshire voters how Biden is handling the job of president, 46 percent of them approve, 54 percent of them disapprove. But if you widen that out and look at how he's doing nationally, that's actually higher than his national average, so 46 percent in New Hampshire, again just to remind everybody, and then 40 percent across the country. So, again, good news for President Biden there. 
 
When we asked likely Democratic voters what their top concern was, this was an open-ended question, they filled it in themselves, 57 percent of them cited his age. There's nothing else that really came close, as you look in the single digits there. Four percent saying health. So, age and health. 
 
But, Kate, the takeaway here is that 94 percent of New Hampshire Democrats are behind the president. That's very solid footing for him in New Hampshire. 
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: I would - I would - I would absolutely concur on that one. 
 
DEAN: Yes.
 
BOLDUAN: It's great to see you, Jessica.
 
DEAN: Thanks.
 
BOLDUAN: And great to have a state-specific poll out, which can give a really important read on where things are.
 
DEAN: Yes.
 
BOLDUAN: Good to see you.
 
John.
 
BERMAN: And, look, a 12-point lead over Donald Trump in New Hampshire is big. I mean Biden won by 8 points, I think, but Hillary Clinton only beat Trump by a few thousand votes. So, New Hampshire has been swingy in the past. 
 
BOLDUAN: Swingy. 
 
BERMAN: Swingy. 
 
BOLDUAN: But it's - it is important. Seeing that kind of something that's not within the margin of error right now is - is unique right now. 
 
BERMAN: Yes, that's for sure. 
 
All right, this morning, authorities are investigating a deadly bus crash in New York. A school marching band director and another adult were killed, multiple students injured, when the bus taking them to a band camp tumbled off the highway. CNN's Omar Jimenez is in Orange County, New York, where this happened. 
 
Omar, what's the latest? 
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so, right now we know that state police are investigating what may have caused this crash. Preliminarily they believe that it was an issue with a front tire that may have been a contributing factor to this crash, but it's part of why the NTSB is on its way to help investigate what happened here. 
 
Now, the bus is back here where we are right now at a state police headquarters in the area. We were actually able to get a look at it. You can see what it looks like now, the wreckage, it is essentially behind a fence in police custody at this point, again, to try and begin some of those investigative steps. 
 
There were over 40 people on board this bus, four adults, 40 students. Two adults were killed here, including the band director. Her name is Gina Pellettiere. She was 43 years old, from Massapequa, New York. This was a bus what was on its way to a band camp coming from Long Island, outside New York City, on its way to Pennsylvania.
 
And the other person that was killed, her name is Beatrice, otherwise known as Bee, Ferrari. She was 77 years old and described as the heart and soul of our marching band program. 
 
Take a listen to one of the students who described what it was like on this bus when it crashed. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTHONY EUGENIO, BUS PASSENGER: It landed on its side. I had like jump out the window. 
 
As soon as I picked my head up, the kid next to me was covered in blood. I just saw blood everywhere. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMENEZ: And they were just about 35 miles from their destination. So, very close to what should have been a celebratory, a fun weekend. It changed in just a matter of moments. 
 
And we just spoke to state police just a few seconds before coming to you and we - as we understand there are still five students in critical condition right now. So, they are conditions that we're going to continue to monitor, John. 
 
BERMAN: You see the condition of that bus as we're getting these new looks at it, Omar. And I have to say, you can understand how it was so terrifying and unfortunately deadly. 
 
Omar Jimenez, keep us posted. Thank you. 
 
Kate. BOLDUAN: Coming up for us, the threat of a government shutdown is real and some would say unavoidable at this point. Eight days out from the deadline and Republicans now think it is a good idea to start trying to move individual spending bills, which they need to do 11 then in eight days. Why the complicated dynamics that are only getting messier by the hour with nothing short of the federal government paying - paying our military members and the U.S. economy hanging in the balance. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:53:16]
 
BERMAN: Our "Champions for Change," people beating the odds and getting things done. This morning, Phil Mattingly shows us how a football star took his private battle with depression public to change lives. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRY MILLER, SENIOR, THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY: It seemed obvious, seemed like a prophecy almost, to be a football player. The expectation was, you play good football, you become an all-American, and then you get drafted and you make lots of money. And that's what I thought I was going to do. 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR: I'm familiar with the scale and intensity of Division I athletics. About 20 years ago, I was playing Division I athletics on this very field, in this very stadium. But the level of the intensity that someone like Harry, at one of the biggest football programs in the country is dealing with, it's unfathomable. 
 
I think it was two years ago that Harry came into your office and said, I'm thinking about killing myself. What happens in that moment as a coach and as a parent? 
 
RYAN DAY, HEAD FOOTBALL COACH, THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY: The first thing is, it takes you to your knees to hear someone actually physically say that. And I give him so much credit for being able to verbalize that. 
 
MILLER: I felt like if the truth had to be told, then I might as well tell it. I think it was received well because it's an experience that a lot of people have. 
 
I'm a high-achieving depressed person. I have a 4.0. I'm applying for the Rosen and Marshall scholarships. I was successful, but I was not healthy. And I think we're coming to a point where there's a lot of successful people that have been unhealthy for a long time. Is this what success is supposed to feel like? Because it feels awful. 
 
I think about all the student athletes who have committed suicide. And I remember the thoughts that I had before, the moments where I thought I would kill myself. And I realized that they were thinking the same thing, that those were the last thoughts. 
 <br>[09:55:03]
 
That was it. And it breaks my heart. 
 
It's hard when a parent says, can you please reach out to my child, I haven't heard from them. I'm just -- I'm a college kid. I've got homework. And even when it's hard, I feel like, this is what I'm supposed to be doing. This is what I'm supposed to be doing. 
 
MATTINGLY: Harry no longer plays the physical game, but he's still a respected part of the team, walking among the players, helping them manage the pressures, and, when needed, encouraging them to open up and get help. 
 
CHARRON SUMLER, OSU SPORT PSYCHOLOGY AND WELLNESS SERVICES: I think he, in addition to setting the blueprint for how to utilize services when you need them, in his courageousness and sharing his story, his journey really inspired a lot of student athletes around the nation. 
 
ENOKK VIMAHI, OFFENSIVE LINEMAN, OSU: He's done such a great job making sure that us players are OK with talking about our mental health. So, he's with us around the team and that especially helps the young guys and knows what kind of problems that they could be facing. 
 
SUMLER: Well, I think it's one thing to offer mental health services to student athletes, but it's another thing to embed them. So, not over in my office, not kind of in a stuffy setting, but really on the field, on the sidelines, increasing access to services, because their schedules are so insane. 
 
DAY: He is changing lives and he is changing the culture of our entire program. 
 
MILLER: The whole point of me talking about anything is to not make it weird, is to destigmatize, to make it OK to talk about. 
 
MATTINGLY: I chose Harry to be my champion, first and foremost, I'm a dad. I'm a dad of four kids who's watched our mental health crisis reach epidemic proportions. And that is why Harry's story is so critically important. An ability with one person to shift the status quo, an entire culture around the sport of football at the highest level. 
 
DAY: He's been at the State of the Union Address. He's flown to D.C. to have interactions with folks on Capitol Hill about federal legislation for mental health. And at such a young age, he's already had such a great impact. And at the same time, he's still fighting some of this stuff. But he shared with me that he finds peace in helping people. And that's what he's doing now. He's got such a bright future ahead of him. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTINGLY: And, guys, Harry Miller now waiting to hear back about his Rhodes Scholarship submission. And it's - it's amazing. He's still a college kid. He's finishing up school in a couple months. Still around the team. And I think the team is such a critical piece here. Ryan Day, the head coach, has made mental health such a huge part of that program, between the professionals being integrated with the team, his fundraising efforts on the outside with his wife and his foundation, that being there was such a huge piece of this story, and that support, Harry, staying with the team, but just an incredible guy, an incredible story going forward. 
 
BERMAN: Beating the stigma, way harder than beating any other football team. 
 
MATTINGLY: In the sport of football, too, which is -- the cultural piece of this is huge.
 
BERMAN: So important. So important.
 
BOLDUAN: Really, really, really special and important. Thanks, Phil. 
 
MATTINGLY: Thanks, guys.
 
BERMAN: Remember, if you need help, call or text 988. And be sure to tune in tomorrow at 8:00 p.m. Eastern for the "Champions for Change" one hour special. 
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: We're also staying on top of our breaking news. And we have more information coming in about Democratic Senator Bob Menendez, and his wife, have been indicted. We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)