Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Scott Plots More Aggressive Approach; President Biden Speaks in Philadelphia; Labor Day Travel Expected to Break Records; Aired 9:30- 10a ET

Aired September 04, 2023 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:30:00] 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: After what was seen by some as a luke-warm debate performance from him. 
 
CNN's Eva McKend in Washington this morning.
 
This is a different Senator Scott that he's rolling out now. 
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN NATIONAL POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: You know, it is, John. We have noticed some subtle jabs at rivals in recent days on the campaign trail. And it indicates he's more willing to take a confrontational approach. He poked at former President Donald Trump for his coziness with Vladimir Putin. He dismissed Vivek Ramaswamy as a good showman who wouldn't support America's allies. 
 
He swiped at Governor DeSantis, Ambassador Haley, Governor Burgum for failing to endorse a national 15-week abortion ban, which you know, of course, John, he supports. One person close to the campaign telling us he just plans to be more aggressive in the next debate since he sort of faded to the background in the first debate. 
 
Now, out on the trail he laughed this off, joking with his supporters that some of his rivals perhaps just don't have no home training. But one adviser says he may be failing to capture the frustration of Republican primary voters. And so that's why we could see him continue to engage more forcefully in this contest, even though this cantankerous style is sort of -- these debates are a bad venue for his style. And he has to sort of strike the right balance here, right, because he doesn't want to come off as inauthentic if this is not who he is naturally. 
 
One thing is for sure, John, though, all indications are he has enough money to go the distance. The campaign announced in July it has more than $21 million in cash reserves. So, he can continue to articulate his message out on the trail. 
 
BERMAN: His campaign definitely thinks this next debate very important for him. 
 
Eva McKend, great to have you. Thank you so much. 
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR: And let's continue the conversation with CNN political commentator Ana Navarro, who joins us now to discuss the 2024 race. 
 
Ana, good to see you. 
 
So, let's start where Eva left off, Tim Scott. Do you think this more confrontational approach from the senator will resonate? I mean clearly he has the money. Do you think that this shift in strategy will resonate? 
 
ANA NAVARRO, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I don't know. I don't know because I think the point that Eva made about authenticity is key. It's key in politics. It's key in these campaigns. People know Tim Scott to be a nice, decent, well-raised southern guy who says ma'am and sir and I - I - and who is optimistic. I certainly think he needs to be more aggressive about getting more time at the debates. I think he needs to be more aggressive about getting his points out.
 
But I think it's very difficult for him to portray himself as somebody who he's not. In the same vein that, you know, Donald Trump's never going to be a humble guy, Ron DeSantis is never going to be a sociable, likeable guy. It's hard to imagine an aggressive Tim Scott. I think his optimism, his decency, his vision for America in a positive light are things that are strengths for him. I hope he doesn't lose them. And it, frankly, sets him apart from an entire field of people who are far more dark and just nastier than he is. He's - you know, you've got Nikki Haley running around calling everybody except herself old. You've got Donald Trump talking about revenge and retribution and carnage. You've got Ron DeSantis at war with Mickey Mouse. For me, a Tim Scott is a refreshing distinguished person on that stage. 
 
BERMAN: Speaking of refreshing, Ana Navarro joins us poolside we should have said. 
 
SOLOMON: You figured off Labor Day right. Yes.
 
BERMAN: Yes, that's right. Thank you for taking off the water wings at least. 
 
NAVARO: In Florida. You know, I know - I know a lot of you are right now mourning the end of summer, but it's Florida. Yes, I have to put up with Ron DeSantis, but I also get summer all year-round. 
 
BERMAN: Ana, this is shaping up to be what looks like at least in the polls now an incredibly tight presidential race. The front runner is President Joe Biden, former President Donald Trump, neck and neck in the polls. But in the latest "Wall Street Journal" poll, which just came out, there are some surprising advantages for Donald Trump. He leads Biden by 11 points among those polls on those who say they had a record of -- which had a better record of accomplishment, Trump leads by 11 points. 
 
And on the issue of who is more mentally up to the task of the presidency, he leads by 10 points. These are different numbers you're seeing right now. 
 
How do you explain that edge for Trump on those subjects? NAVARO: Frankly, I think people have forgotten how bad Donald Trump
 
 was. I think people have forgotten all the gaffes and mistakes that Donald Trump made as president, while the ones that Joe Biden makes are, you know, front and center and they are national news media - news -- they get national news media, national news media attention. 
 <br>[09:35:09]
 
I think people have forgotten what a stressful, horrible, divisive time for America the Trump presidency was. The daily tweets leading to culture wars. The attack on people personally. The (INAUDIBLE) attacks on international leaders. Just the way we lived for four years I think people have forgotten that. 
 
And it's going to be the Biden camp's job should Donald Trump be the nominee to remind America what we went through those four years, to remind America the horror that led to January 6th, to remind America about the dysfunction in that government, the corruption, about the children in government, about the billions of dollars that have been raised by those children after they left government. 
 
Those are all the jobs that Joe Biden's going to have to focus on. Frankly, he hasn't laid a glove on Donald Trump yet because he's not the nominee. So, I'm not sure that these polls are anything that should -- that they should be losing sleep about, but they should definitely be thinking about. 
 
SOLOMON: Ana, let's circle back to Florida. DeSantis will be back on the campaign trail after focusing on leading Florida after Hurricane Idalia. Do you think -- we know you think that he shouldn't be focusing on the culture wars and fighting Mickey Mouse, as you just pointed out, but should he be leveraging his disaster management skills that supporters of his say are quite effective. Should he be leveraging that more in the presidential race? Would that help? 
 
NAVARO: I've always wondered why he didn't leverage that more. Listen, I don't like Ron DeSantis. It's no secret. And I think he has been an effective leader when it comes to disaster management. I think that through the hurricanes here, through the building collapse in Surfside in south Florida, he has been good at that. I recognize that. I like that from him. It's one of the few things I like. 
 
And for some reason, instead of focusing on the positive Florida story, he's focused on DEI and CRT and ESG. He's focused on banning the alphabet for God's sakes. That is ridiculous. That doesn't get your gas tank full. That doesn't let you feed your family. That doesn't help you pay your bills. That doesn't help you get health insurance. And that's what he's focused on. And he sounds like a broken one-song record. And it's not getting him anywhere. 
 
The greatest problem Ron DeSantis has, though, is not what he's going to leverage or what he's not going to leverage. The greatest problem DeSantis has is Ron DeSantis. And the same way Tim Scott is widely liked by his colleagues and by people, is seen as a good guy and a nice guy, Ron DeSantis is seen as awkward, anti-social, not really having friends, whiney and not any - not somebody anybody wants to go have a beer with, right? And that, I don't know how Ron DeSantis changes. Not at this point. You only get one chance to make a first impression and he's made that first impression as a guy who was anything but likeable. 
 
SOLOMON: Ana Navaro, we appreciate you spending part of your Labor Day with us poolside. Hopefully you'll have a margarita or a beer or some cool beverage of some sort for John and myself. 
 
NAVARO: For Jimmy Buffett. So, yes, in Florida. We're going to miss him greatly. 
 
SOLOMON: Touche.
 
BERMAN: Pour out a margarita.
 
All right, Ana, thank you. 
 
Jury selection set to begin in the contempt of Congress trial against a former Trump White House aide. How the case could play out for Peter Navarro after the judge knocked out his key defense. 
 
And splash down. Four astronauts back on earth after a six-month stay in space. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:43:18]
 
BERMAN: President Biden speaking at a Labor Day event in Philadelphia. 
 
Let's listen. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Danny (ph), president of the Central Labor Council. (INAUDIBLE). And Gary Macino (ph), president of the Sheet Metal Workers Local 19. Thanks for hosting us today. Nothing to it.
 
By the way, I think maybe the worst sentence in the English language for somebody who runs a place is, the president's coming. Like, oh, my God, nothing but work. Nothing but a lot of work. 
 
And, by the way, you know, she couldn't be here today because she's celebrating Labor Day in Detroit, but I want to thank Liz Schuler (ph), a great friend, a fearless leader of the FLCL (ph) and a great, great partner. 
 
And so many current and former elected officials here today, all friends of mine, friends of labor as well. 
 
Governor Shapiro and Senator Fetterman, they couldn't be here today because we're splitting the state. They're taking Pittsburgh and I'm taking Philly. Along with a few friends. By the way, Mayor Kenny is here, I think. Mr. Mayor, you show up here? You were able to come? There he is, under the American flag. Good to see you, Mr. Mayor. I'm sorry I keep bugging you all the time. He and I talk more than I think we talk to our staffs. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I tell you what, someone said, you know, that Biden, he's getting old,
 
 man. I tell you what. Well, guess what -- guess what, I can -- you know, the only thing that comes with age is a little bit of wisdom. I've been doing this longer than anybody and, guess what, I'm going to continue to do it with your help. 
 <br>[09:45:07]
 
Look, one of my friends from my hometown, Bobby Casey (ph) from Scranton, Pennsylvania. And, you know, and with Representative Dwight Evans (ph), a good friend, and Brendan Boyle (ph) is always there for me and Mary Kay Scanlon (ph). Mary Kay Scanlon is a -- has been a great friend as well. 
 
And, look, former member Charlene Parker (ph). Where's Charlene. She's here. I know I saw her. 
 
Well, I know the next mayor. I was about to do that. I was going to see her first. 
 
Do you want to come up here and do this, old buddy? I'm happy -- I told her when I ran for president I told you I'd have your back. And I have. You know, there are a lot of politicians in this country who don't know how to say the word "union." They talk about labor, they don't say "union." It's union. I'm one of them. I'm proud to say "union." I'm proud to be the most pro-union president according to the experts about -- in American history. 
 
And I - and, by the way, I make no bones about that. Folks, in this labor - and let me tell you what we're celebrating. We're celebrating jobs. Good-paying jobs. Jobs you can raise a family on. Union jobs. 
 
You've heard me say it before, but my dad used to have an expression, I swear to God. He'd say, Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. For real. It's about a lot more than a paycheck. It's about your dignity. It's about respect. It's about being able to look your kid in the eye and say it's going to be OK and mean it when you say it. And he was right. And I'm determined to make that a reality for every family in this country. And we are making it a reality. Nearly 13 million 500,000 jobs just since you got me sworn in, in - you know, in January of 2020. Eight hundred thousand new manufacturing jobs. But you wouldn't know it from all the negative news you hear. But we're getting through this, one of the greatest job creation periods in American history. For real. That's a fact. 
 
And, you know, it wasn't that long ago we were losing jobs in this country. In fact, the guy who held this job before me was just one of two presidents in history. He was one of -- but here's an important point -- one of two presidents that left office with fewer jobs in America than when he got elected office. 
 
By the way, do you know who the other one was? Herbert Hoover. Isn't that kind of coincidental. 
 
Look, we're turning things around because of you. When the last guy was here, you were shipping jobs to China. Now we're bringing jobs home from China. When the last guy was here -- when the last guy was here your pensions were at risk. We helped save millions of pensions with your help. 
 
When the last guy was here, he looked at the world from Park Avenue. I look at it from Scranton, Pennsylvania. I look at it from Claymont, Delaware. Not a joke. Folks, of all my time in public office, I've been referred to as middle class, Joe. I guess they thought that was somehow not very complementary. Well, guess what, that's who I am. That doesn't mean you're not sophisticated because you're middle class. It means you worked like hell and you know what your family has to work like hell to be able to make it.
 
Well, I'm awful sophisticated - I'm awful sophisticated about one thing. I know who built this country. I've been saying this since I ran the first time. Let me say it loud and clear. Wall Street didn't build America, the middle class built America. And unions built the middle class. That's a fact. That's not hyperbole. That's a fact. Unions built the middle class. 
 
When I look at this crowd I see folks from my neighborhood. I grew up in Scranton and Claymont. People with physical courage and brains. People who busted their necks their whole lives to care for their families. People who got up every day and worked like the devil to pay their taxes and volunteer in their communities. You're too modest. You don't talk enough about what you have to do. But I tell you, leaders all the time, American union workers are the best -- and this is what I tell -- I know every major head of state in the world, not a joke, it's because I've been around and they look to America for foreign policy issues. And guess what, I make the point, America has the best workers in the world. That's a fact. 
 
You guys ought to talk about it more. It an take four to five years to train as an apprentice. It's like going back to college. The jobs are constantly changing and technology evolves. 
 <br>[09:50:02]
 
You have to keep stepping up. You have to get more training. You can't - you - and you - so you can't be the worst in the world, you're the best in the world. No, I really mean it. You know, like the sheet metal workers who used to use the hand-drawn blueprints and design duct work in buildings. Now use sophisticated computer-aided design systems so the entire project can be laid out in 3-D. It ain't your father's sheet metal workers. This is a different world, man. You do the job right, and you do it on time. And you -- it costs less for the guy you're doing it for, the person - the outfit you're doing it for than if they didn't have labor. People are starting to understand. 
 
I've met with the - with the business roundtable - 
 
SOLOMON: President Biden speaking there in Philadelphia, marking this Labor Day holiday. Philadelphia, an area that he travels to quite a bit. This is his seventh visit this year. He poked fun at his age. He said with his age comes wisdom. That's interesting. We've been seeing that a bit more these days from the president. Also talking about his blue-collar roots. He is, of course, from Scranton, which is about 125 miles away from Philly.
 
BERMAN: He considers Pennsylvania his home away from home. His birthplace.
 
SOLOMON: Yes.
 
BERMAN: There were some signs here of what will be President Biden's re-election stump speech. In some ways this was a little bit of an unveiling, I think, of what he wants his economic campaign message to be. He had a riff in the middle there when he said, when the last guy was here. He didn't refer to Donald Trump by name, but he went on and on about, when the last guy was here. And he made the point, he didn't talk about Donald Trump's trials, the criminal charges against him. He talked about his economic record. He said Trump is one of two presidents to have lost jobs, to leave office with fewer jobs than when he started. And then he had a few other lines right there. Very interesting to see President Biden leaning into this now. 
 
Labor Day is the traditional kickoff of the campaign season, although we're a year away from the general election campaign for president. But fall time is - yes.
 
SOLOMON: He's giving you a sense of what me might hear more of from the campaign.
 
BERMAN: For sure.
 
SOLOMON: Not leaning into the legal issues but leaning into his economic agenda. 
 
All right, Labor Day travel, meantime, expected to break records this year. Capping off what's been a very busy summer. 
 
Pete Muntean breaking down the numbers. 
 
Pete.
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: Rahel, more than half of all Americans planning to travel for Labor Day weekend, but now begins the really big rush home. So, we'll break down when the worst times to travel are, and where are the most congested spots. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back. 
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
As millions of travelers wrap up Labor Day weekend, Americans are bracing for a travel jam at airports and on roads as they make their way home now. Labor Day caps off a record summer travel season, and the Federal Aviation Administration predicts that this weekend will be the third busiest holiday weekend of the year. 
 
Let's go to CNN aviation correspondent Pete Muntean, who is joining us now. So, Pete, so, what are some of the obstacles that people are going to
 
 be facing as they try to make it home? 
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: So many, Rahel. You know, the numbers are really big. About half of all Americans, according to a recent survey from "The Vacationer" are expected to travel for the long holiday weekend. We're talking about 148 million people. And now begins the really big rush home. 
 
Let's talk about the spot where we are right now. We're in Annapolis, Maryland, on U.S. Route 50. Not far from the Chesapeake Bay Bridge. And Maryland officials here expect 350,000 cars to travel through this spot over the entirety of the holiday weekend. All really fits in with this theme that this weekend is so big. 
 
The latest numbers from AAA, when you factor in flights, cruises, rental cars, hotels, labor day travel went up 4 percent this year compared to last year. One of the biggest obstacles is the price of gas. The average price for a gallon of gas right now, $3.81 according to AAA. That's about where we were this time last year, $3.78. But it's among the highest gas price we have seen all year. And drivers have been pretty aware about this. 
 
Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think it's, you know, probably comparable to what to expect for this, you know, this busy weekend. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We knew they were going to go up. We knew it. So we filled up before we left Jersey. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUNTEAN: Here are the big spots for congestion today. I-70 near Denver. The Garden State Parkway going back into New York. Also, I-15 going into San Diego. 
 
So, the worst times to travel are today, right about now, between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. according to AAA and travel firm Enricks (ph). Best time you can travel today, just wait it out until after 7:00 p.m. That is the best advice from AAA. We are only seeing the start of the rush home right now, Rahel. 
 
SOLOMON: Oh, boy. And it's interesting, Pete, because usually gas prices at this time of year go the opposite direction. So, it's just been so fascinating to watch that. 
 
Pete Muntean, live for us there. Thank you, Pete.
 
 John.
 
BERMAN: Yes, talk about tough travel. Tens of thousands of people still trapped in Nevada this morning after rain turned the Burning Man Festival into this muddy mess. A lot of people say they want to stick around for the high point of the festival, which is tonight, which is when they burn stuff.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]