Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Lawyer: IRS Agent Seeks Whistleblower Protections To Share Allegations Of Mishandling In What May Be Hunter Biden Probe; Supreme Court Extends Abortion Pill Access to Friday Night; Florida Bans Teaching About Gender Identity Through 12th Grade; State Sen. Shevrin Jones (D-FL) Discusses Florida Ban on Gender Identify in Schools; Alec Baldwin's "Rust" To Resume Filming Today In Montana. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired April 20, 2023 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:30:17]
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Let's check on our top stories this hour. 
 
House Speaker Kevin McCarthy just released his plan to raise the debt ceiling until next year. But some lawmakers say it is a trap for the White House, given the cuts he's demanding. 
 
In exchange, the plan would cut federal spending in the Biden student loan cancellation plan. Repeal the IRS expansion plans, set new employment policies for welfare programs, among other things.
 
Or as Democrats see it, neutralize the president's agenda, which already passed Congress.
 
The Treasury Department has warned that the us could reach its debt deadline as early as June 5th. That's not long from now.
 
And an ambitious space mission made it off the launch pad this morning, but not much farther. The coolest, frankly, rocket exploded midair after it separated from its heavy booster, the first stage. 
 
SpaceX's starship, as it's known, the heaviest, most powerful rocket ever built. The goal was to fully orbit the planet in about an hour and a half. Elon Musk says that they will attempt the mission again in the coming months. 
 
Also this hour, Brianna, over to you. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: The White House responding to allegations of political interference as a self-described whistleblower claims to have explosive information, potentially about mishandling in the Hunter Biden investigation.
 
And in a new statement, the White House says, "President Biden has made clear that this matter would be handled independently by the Justice Department. He has upheld that commitment." 
 
CNN's Paula Reid is here now with details for us. OK, what can you tell us, Paula, about this whistleblower and also
 
 about the information that they claim to have? 
 
PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: So in this letter to lawmakers, this person is described as someone who supervised the investigation into Hunter Biden. We know the president's son has been under investigation since about 2018. 
 
We know from our reporting that they have considered bringing charges that include tax crimes and even a possible false statements charge related to a gun purchase.
 
But no charges have been filed so far. And this person wants whistleblower protections so they can share what they know with Congress. 
 
Now, they alleged that they not only have evidence that this case has been mishandled, but they also have evidence, they say, that contradicts public statements by the attorney general.
 
And I want to be really careful here. And this is someone who alleges to have this. They presented no evidence. They, at this point, do not actually have whistleblower protections. It's not clear if they're going to get them. 
 
So at this point, again, we have to be cautious because there have been other promises about whistleblowers related to Hunter Biden and the Biden family that have not come to fruition. 
 
KEILAR: So what happens next in all of this? 
 
REID: So it'll be really interesting to see if this person gets whistleblower status, if they receive that status, if they're able to share what they allegedly know with Congress. 
 
What do they know? What evidence do they have to back that up? And what, if anything, does it mean for the ongoing federal investigation? Because it's still an outstanding question what will happen there. 
 
We know in the past several months, again, there has been some dissent within the Justice Department. Not that unusual in any criminal case. About whether they had enough evidence to bring a case and prove it beyond a reasonable doubt. 
 
And as I said, no charges have been brought in that long, ongoing investigation. So we're watching not only what happens with this whistleblower, but also what if anything, it means for the federal probe. 
 
SCIUTTO: All right, Paula, we know that you'll stay on this. Thank you.
 
Boris?
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Now to the ongoing legal battle over the abortion pill, Mifepristone. A ruling could come from the Supreme Court at any time between now and midnight tomorrow.
 
The justices extended their self-imposed deadline yesterday while we were on the air, giving themselves more time to decide if this drug that's been used by millions of women for nearly 20 years to terminate pregnancies and to treat miscarriages should stay on the market here in the United States. 
 
The battle over the pill comes after a Texas judge abruptly revoked the FDA approval of the drug. 
 
Fortunately, we have CNN's justice correspondent, Jessica Schneider, with more on this.
 
Jessica, the justices did not explain the reason for the delay. Do we have any idea what we can expect tomorrow? 
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so this is a short delay of about 48 hours. And it's likely, Boris, that the justices really just need more time here to consider what to do in this case.
 
Possibly, there are justices working on writing concurring, maybe dissenting opinions here. 
 
What's interesting is they do have this in-person conference scheduled for tomorrow. Perhaps, they wanted to delay it a little bit more to meet in person to discuss exactly how to proceed here. 
 
Because, of course, if they don't extend this stay, there will be major ramifications for millions of women. 
 <br>[14:35:01]
 
SANCHEZ: Let's talk about that. What are the implications here, the practical ones for everyday women out there?
 
SCHNEIDER: Right. So, right now, everything is status quo. The struggle remains available as it has for the past months and years. If the Supreme Court extends that stay, it will continue to be status quo. 
 
The big question is, if the Supreme Court decides to enact some of those restrictions that the Fifth Circuit had put, maybe some of them or all of them. 
 
So what are the restrictions here? If the Supreme Court decides not to extend the stay and impose the restrictions, it would mean that Mifepristone would only be available up to seven weeks pregnant, currently that 10 weeks pregnancy. 
 
In addition, it would change the parameters for in-person doctor visits. Typically, allow the women now get it via telehealth. And it would also would mean more in-person clinic visits. 
 
Plus, it could potentially halt the availability of this drug via mail. Right now, women can get pretty easily via mail. 
 
It's -- but it's possible that the Supreme Court could halt that and women would have to get it in person from a doctor or pharmacy. 
 
SANCHEZ: All right, enormous implications. 
 
I'm honestly surprised that someone hasn't run over with a wire to you that the Supreme Court just made a decision. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. 
 
Jessica Schneider, thank you so much.
 
Jim? 
 
SCIUTTO: Well, Florida's so-called Parental Rights Bill, as it's described by supporters, has just been expanded, now affecting even more teachers and students. We're going to tell you exactly who.
 
And "Rust" has resumed filming for the first time since that deadly on-set accident. We're going to bring you the latest. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:40:55]
 
SCIUTTO: The Florida State Board of Education just ignited a new political firestorm after they further expanded the scope of a controversial bill signed into law last year by the governor, Ron DeSantis.
 
The bill will ban teaching or even mentioning anything about sexual orientation or gender identity from the kindergarten through third grade. 
 
Steve Contorno joins us now.
 
Steve, because it's greatly expanded right up to 12th grade. You cannot mention those things. Tell us the effect that it's having and just how far this goes. 
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Well, as you said, Jim, goes from third grade through high school. So now this subject that has been off the table for those early grades is now off the table for all grades. 
 
If you are a student, you can only learn about sexual orientation and gender identity now if it's part of a health or reproductive class curriculum, but it can't be injected into any other part of the curriculum.
 
And the governor has made this a priority for several months now. And yesterday, his state Board of Education pushed through that objective. 
 
He was actually in South Carolina this week, where he talked about why he said this was needed. Take a listen to what he said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL): It is wrong to tell a second grader that they were born in the wrong body. It is wrong to --
 
(CHEERING)
 
DESANTIS: -- teach kids they can change their gender. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
DESANTIS: And in Florida, we've made sure that gender ideology has no place in our K through 12 schools. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CONTORNO: Now, Jim, the effects of this bill are such that if a teacher actually violates the -- this new rule, they could lose their license to teach. They could be suspended. 
 
What's interesting about this, though, is, a year ago, when Governor DeSantis first put this on the table and first signed this this bill into law, it only affected grades kindergarten through third grade exclusively.
 
And he made a big push that this was about protecting young children. Well, now it is children all the way up through the senior year of high school who will not have this part of the curriculum. 
 
Obviously, opponents are very upset about this and say this will hurt and stigmatize LGBTQ students and teachers, and leave the schools with few safe spaces for children.
 
SCIUTTO: So just to be clear, because he -- his comments there were about gender identity, calling it gender ideology. But a teacher cannot say, mention that a political figure is gay. It does that fall under these rules?
 
CONTORNO: No. And that's part of where this -- the vagueness of the law has created a lot of problems with interpretation of what it actually means. And it has had a chilling effect on what teachers are willing to mention in the classroom.
 
The state says that it's about instruction and that you cannot teach certain topics. So, for example, the Supreme Court ruling on same-sex marriage, that can be taught, but it cannot jump start of further dialogue about the efficacy of gender ideology or transgender and such.
 
So that's kind of where the vagueness of this, though, is creating a lot of headaches for teachers and curriculum makers and superintendents who are -- who need to abide by the law. Otherwise, they face significant punishment. 
 
But at the same time, Jim, you know, feel like these things are important for people to be talking about. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, I mean, listen, if you're fearing losing your job, of course, could create some -- some confusion. 
 
Steve Contorno, thanks so much.
 
Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Let's discuss further with Florida Democratic State Senator Shevrin Jones. 
 
Senator Jones, thank you so much for being with us this afternoon. 
 
You've been very critical about this legislation on Twitter. I'm wondering what you think this new move to expand it all the way to high school seniors is going to do for the quality of education that Florida students are getting. 
 
STATE SEN. SHEVRIN JONES (D-FL): First of all, thank you for having me, Boris. 
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
And I also want to start off by saying that I told you so. I told everyone that this was going to be the move that the Republicans in Florida, which they did. 
 
First, they started off with K through three. This year, it's K through eight. Now the Board of Education said that gets K through 12.
 
So it was never about protecting kids, because if they truly wanted to protect kids, they would have made sure that all kids were protected.
 
Especially our vulnerable LGBTQ young people, who experience high rates of mental health and challenges, which are three times more likely to commit suicide.
 
And just make it clear that this chilling effect that we're seeing with teachers feeling muzzled in the classroom, it goes far beyond just talking about the LGBTQ issues. They have extended even with the Stop the Woke Act.
 
And this is just the type of state that is being made here under the leadership of Ron DeSantis. 
 
SANCHEZ: That Stop the Woke Act, we should let our viewers know, prevents the teaching of certain aspects of civil rights, history, and issues that affect people of color. 
 
So I'm wondering, the argument from Republicans is that these are issues that are best left for parents to discuss at home with their kids. They say that they don't belong. In a classroom. What do you say to that? 
 
JONES: I 100 percent agree that parents should play a huge role in having these conversations with students, with their children.
 
And I also wanted to point want to point out that this was not happening in our schools. We made it clear last year that gender identity, sexual orientation, none of that is being even taught in our classrooms right now.
 
What we know is that anti-LGBTQ legislation has taken several forms across this nation. It's not only a Florida thing. This is what's happening all across the country right now. 
 
But I also want to point out that it's clear this isn't about the urgent issues that we need to be focusing on here in Florida.
 
And also when we're talking about parental rights, which parents? Is it just for the straight parents that we want to make sure that they -- their rights are protected. What about the parent who has a transgender child? What about the parent who has an LBG -- a gay child? So what about those parents?
 
Why can't we just have a conversation ensuring that parent protection, meaning that we are protecting all children, all parents to ensure that truth is being taught?
 
And reasonable minds would agree that inappropriate conversation should not be had inside the classroom. 
 
Yes, parents should have those conversations. But LGBTQ youth who do not have that type of supportive parents should have the ability to talk to a teacher and to get that solace, to get the encouragement that he or she needs to make sure that they're going to feel ostracized, to ensure that they're going to feel as if no one cares about them.
 
But that's just the type of state that's being created in Florida. So that young people don't feel as if they belong here in this state. And that's dangerous. 
 
SANCHEZ: And, Senator, quickly, we only have a few seconds. There is reporting that Ron DeSantis is planning on running for president. He says that Floridians gave him a mandate. He won the last election by a large margin. 
 
What do you think might happen if he runs for president and wins and enacts this kind of agenda we're seeing in Florida nationally?
 
JONES: This agenda does not work in Florida. I think he should go look at Donald Trump and what happened to him and his type of policies. He will follow suit if he continues down this route. 
 
SANCHEZ: State Senator Shevrin Jones, appreciate your time this afternoon. Thanks so much. 
 
JONES: Thank you. 
 
SANCHEZ: Of course.
 
Brianna?
 <br>[14:48:38]
 
KEILAR: Production is resuming on the film set of "Rust" a year and a half after Alec Baldwin used a prop gun with a live round in it and killed the movie cinematographer. We'll have details ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:53:16]
 
KEILAR: Production resumes today on the movie "Rust" nearly 18 months after the tragedy on the New Mexico set.
 
Alec Baldwin's western flick stopped filming after he accidentally shot and killed his cinematographer Helena Hutchins, and wounded his director with a prop gun that was loaded with a live round. 
 
The production resumes on a new set in another state, Montana. 
 
We have CNN entertainment reporter, Chloe Melas, joining us now in this story.
 
Chloe, this was actually made possible because of an agreement between Baldwin and Hutchins, husband, right? 
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Yes. And that agreement has been sealed by the judge because this was an undisclosed settlement between Alec Baldwin and "Rust" productions and Helena Hutchins' widower, Matthew Hutchins. 
 
And really this money that will be made potentially from the film when it's finished and distributed will go towards their minor son. 
 
And this is starting today. It's going to be 20 to 25 days of filming before they wrap in Yellowstone. Previously, it was filmed in New Mexico and for obvious reasons it was moved. 
 
Alec Baldwin is on the set, and also director, Joel Sousa, who was also wounded that day when a live round of ammunition came out of -- fired out of that prop gun that Alec Baldwin was holding. And he maintains, you know, he did not pull the trigger. 
 
And so you know, obviously an emotional time for everyone to be back as this criminal trial is looming. 
 
KEILAR: Chloe, what happens with the church scene? It was that church scene where this accidental shooting took place? 
 
MELAS: They have taken it out. So, Brianna, they are not going to be filming it. 
 
So for viewers out there that don't know exactly what we're talking about. When this accidental firing went off, they were rehearsing a scene where Alec Baldwin did something called across draw where he would pull the gun out of a side holster. 
 <br>[14:55:05]
 
And he claims that the cinematographer told her to aim it at her as they were rehearsing. That scene has been completely scrubbed from the film. They will not be filming that whatsoever. So when the movie comes out, those looking for that scene, it won't be
 
 there. 
 
KEILAR: And Baldwin and the movie sets armorer, they were both charged with involuntary manslaughter. I think folks may recall that. Where does that case currently stand? 
 
MELAS: Well, look, I mean, there have been very significant develop developments with the prosecutor, Andrea Reeves, stepping down recently, and the D.A. recusing herself.
 
And also the charges being downgraded, removing the firearm enhancement charge, which means that both of them only face, but it's still significant, up to 18 months in prison.
 
So a preliminary hearing is set for May 3rd. And for all intents and purposes, Brianna, we are going to see this go to trial this summer. 
 
KEILAR: All right, so much interest in this movie in this case.
 
Chloe, thank you for the latest on that.
 
Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Next, the rocket launch that ended in flames and smoke being labeled a success. What SpaceX is now saying after its starship rocket exploded just minutes after lifting off this morning. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)