Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: 14 Israeli Hostages Expected To Be Released Today; Israel- Hamas' Four-Day Truce Appears to Be Holding into Second Day; Former Minnesota Police Officer Derek Chauvin Assaulted in Prison. Aired 6-7a ET

Aired November 25, 2023 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:00:36]
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: Good Morning. Welcome to CNN This Morning. It is Saturday November 25. I'm Victor Blackwell.
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN ANCHOR: And I'm Isabelle Rosales in for Amara Walker. Thanks for joining us this morning. 
 
BLACKWELL: Good to have you along this morning. This morning we are waiting for the release of more hostages being held by Hamas. And Israeli official says 14 hostages will be released today and exchanged 42 Palestinian prisoners will be freed from Israeli prisons. 
 
Now this is day two of four the truce that could bring a total of 50 hostages, women and children home. 
 
ROSALES: Now this video shows the moments the first group of hostages were freed after weeks in captivity. 13 are Israeli, 10 are Thai citizens, and one is Filipino. The video was released by Hamas and CNN had no control over its content. 
 
In this video, you can see several foreign nationals getting out of these minivans, and later what appeared to be female hostages, and at least one child. And there were tears as those freed hostages arrived at hospitals near Tel Aviv. And right now, they are undergoing medical checks. But officials say they are in good physical condition, giving hope to families of those still being held.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOAM PERI, ELDERLY FATHER KIDNAPPED BY HAMAS: I can tell you this morning that we have a sign of life from my father. We know he's alive. From other people from the community who were released yesterday. It brings a lot of hope. And yet together, it's -- we feel very urgent to let them all out. We don't know how much time they're going to be able to hold on there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: Now this is a temporary truce in negotiation. So in return for the freed Israeli hostages, Israel release 39 Palestinian prisoners who were carried throughout the streets of the West Bank that it was obtained by CNN show the crown waving Palestinian and Hamas flags, other former prisoners hugged friends and loved ones. The release Palestinians included women, girls and male teenagers. 150 Palestinian prisoners are set to be released during the four day truth. 
 
BLACKWELL: CNN is covering the developments Larry Madowo and Oren Liebermann are standing by. We're going to start though with CNN anchor Becky Anderson. So the truth -- truce is holding this morning. We're waiting for the next release of hostages. The number we're getting is coming from Israelis tell us more about the expectation.
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN ANCHOR: That's right, Israeli officials suggesting that there will be 14 Israeli hostages released today in exchange for 42 Palestinians in Israeli prisons. Now, that is per Israeli sources, specifically, as we understand it from diplomatic sources, that I have been speaking to. The list that needs to be delivered as part of the obligation every day for these releases included 13 Israeli hostages. 
 
So there is a bit of conflicting information there. But as the day proceeds, perhaps it will become clear exactly why that conflict is there. 
 
But what we had yesterday on day one was effectively, Victor, a proof of concept, a sigh of relief for the families of the 13 Israeli hostages who were released and as you saw celebrations for the families of the Palestinian prisoners who were released. 
 
So it is now day two. It is 2:00 in the afternoon here in Doha, 1:00 in the afternoon in Gaza, and if the plan proceeds according to what happened yesterday in about three hours time, we should expect to either see or at least hear that the hostages being released by Hamas are on the move. Again, yesterday the process was that the prisoners were released into the hands of the International Committee for the Red Cross that was in -- in an area of southern Gaza.
 <br>[06:05:10]
 
They then made their way down to the border crossing in a convoy alongside 10 Thais and one Filipina. This was a bit of a surprise. These hostages were released at the same time as those who were included in this agreement between Israel and Hamas. 
 
But it was a separate track through which these foreign nationals were negotiated. So a bit of a surprise, which meant that we saw 24 hostages in total yesterday. They were taken by the Red Cross down to the Rafah crossing border, and then transferred to a southern Israeli crossing, where they cross back into Israel and into the hands of the IDF. 
 
And Oren will bring us a bang up to date on how those hostages are, and you know, how their families are reacting to having them home. There were three families involved in that release of 13 yesterday, and implicit in this understanding is that Hamas will, it says try and keep families together. So what do we know today? Well, we know that the list is now available
 
 to the Israelis. They know who is on this list. We know that there are 35 children still believed to be held hostage, and eight mothers of hostages of child hostages still being held in captivity.
 
We should expect to see quite a number of children today included in whether it's 13 or 14 released today, quite a number of children. After all, let's remember, this deal was put together very specifically to allow for the release of women and children in the first instance. 
 
So that is what we can expect today. In a couple of hours time expect to hear or see likely -- most likely hear that these hostages are on the move and then we move on from there per the sort of procedure that we saw yesterday. That is the expectation. 
 
So, what are we learning now more about the condition of those who were released on Friday. CNN's Oren Liebermann is in Tel Aviv. And Oren, you were at the hospital where the hostages were reunited with their loved ones. What are you hearing?
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Becky, I was at Wilson Medical Center, which focused on five of the elderly hostages who were released elderly women were brought, they're arriving between nine in the evening and 11:00 at night by ambulance by helicopter. 
 
This morning, the hospital released a statement saying they are in stable condition. Some of the families certainly not all of them, but some of them have released pictures from the reunions simply unbridled joy at the chance, first, obviously to see that their loved ones are out of Hamas captivity, but back in their arms being treated, being cared for.
 
We got a similar statement from Schneider Medical Center. That's where the children were taken for treatment. The hospital there says they are in good condition. Similarly, some of the families there have chosen to put out pictures of the reunions. And it is that same joy, especially with the children of being with their families, again, being able to hold them, being able to celebrate with them. 
 
And that comes across clearly from these pictures that have been released. Both hospitals, of course, asking us to respect the privacy of the families, both in fact have set up specific wings for the freed hostages so they can be with their families and have time to recuperate here.
 
It's not just medical and physical checks they'll have to go through, it is mental health checks. The hospitals have psychologists on standby, and at least for the children have tried to make it feel as little as possible, like a hospital trying to make it in that sense, seem almost like a luxury hotel, with games, with teddy bears, anything possible to try to remind them and show them that they're in a safe place at this point. 
 
Both hospitals effectively put out statements or came out with statements last night saying there wasn't a dry eye in the room. During the reunions when they were welcomed in, I suspect they'll have as long as long as they need for the recovery. Their hospitals getting ready for more intake of hostages later on tonight when another 14 are released. So we'll be standing by for that.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, good stuff, Oren. Thank you very much indeed. Before I get to Larry, who is in Cairo and on an incredibly important pillar of what is this deal between Hamas and Israel, and that is the humanitarian aid included in this deal, which is now rolling across the border from Egypt into Israel. 
 
Let me just bring you up to date on what we've heard on the Palestinian prison.
 <br>[06:10:00]
 
So 39 released yesterday, if we were to see 14 Hamas held hostages released today, the likelihood is, according to Israeli officials that Israel will release 42 Palestinian prisoners today. Now there is a list of some 300. And implicit in this understanding between these two parties who, by the way, have no trust between themselves whatsoever. There's no trust between Israel and Hamas. 
 
But implicit was an understanding from Hamas that the most senior of those Palestinian prisoners would be released. And we've actually just heard this morning. And to be quite clear, that was not the case of the profile of those who weren't released yesterday. 
 
We've just heard from the head of the Palestinian Commission for Detainees, and I quote here, there are indications of a possible crisis regarding the list of names announced by Israel due to Israel's failure to adhere to the agreed upon criterion of seniority, longer served prisoners, they say, in the deal. 
 
The words, there is a sort of burgeoning crisis here. There were certainly some indications yesterday that things weren't perfect behind the scenes. And listen, this is a fragile deal. Nobody expected it to be perfect, but nobody wants it derailed either. 
 
And so I think that there is certainly some sense of, if not misunderstanding, but certainly a sense behind the scenes that this deal could be derailed if either side starts knocking around and not committing to watch, they had said that they would do in this deal. 
 
So let's keep an eye on who gets released on the Palestinian side today, because I think that's a really important issue. 
 
Well, as the temporary truce holds, there has been a real uptick in a trucks entering Gaza, from Egypt. CNN's Larry Madowo is in Cairo. What's the latest, Larry?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Becky, we're learning more about more aid trucks going into Gaza today. And the Egyptian government official telling CNN that 340 trucks have gone from the Egyptian side into Gaza, though it is not clear if it has actually gone into Gaza, because there's two checkpoints here, one on the Egyptian side. And then when it gets to the Israeli side, there's another checkpoint before this is then dispatched to aid agencies that work across the southern Gaza Strip. 
 
So these 340 tracks this additional government official is telling CNN includes at least seven trucks of gas and aid that's going in. Yesterday, we saw a big number of trucks go in. But this if it is true, if it's confirmed, they all get into Gaza, then there'll be at least two and a half times more than we saw yesterday. The U.N. said 137 trucks went in this is we're talking about food. We're talking about medicine. A lot of people have been in this desperate situation. 
 
Before October 7, about 455 aid trucks were going into Gaza daily, that almost stopped entirely after the war began. It started into a trickle now, and this the release of more aid and food and fuel into Gaza as part of the conditions on this truce and this hostage prisoner swap. It is as the Israelis call it part of the framework for the release of the hostages. 
 
But this is still only day two of that. It is still a drop in the ocean, even if 340 trucks were to come in because the extent of the need here is unspeakable. 1.7 million people in Gaza are displaced. They do not have the basic essentials. They need gas to cook. And yet the quarter according to another Egyptian government official is about 200 trucks. It's about 130,000 tons of diesel fuel. It's about four gas trucks. So it's a small drop in the ocean considering the need here. 
 
But it's still something and that is why, Becky, you hear from a lot of aid organizations that say this four-day truce is not nearly enough. They need a longer period. They need more time to bring in as much as possible.
 
ANDERSON: Larry, good to have you. So the deal, effectively says, Victor, that there should be at least 200 trucks a day going through that border. Not quite that yesterday. So again, when I say everything went to plan yesterday, as far as the mediation team here in Qatar, remember, they have been at the heart of what is going on and they have an observation unit here now. 
 
Sort of, you know, monitoring what is going on second by second. In fact, some members of that team have just arrived in Israel on a flight from Qatar which is very unusual. That doesn't happen. There are no direct flights between Israel and Qatar normally.
 <br>[06:15:00]
 
But they've now taken some of the team from here who've been observing the implementation of this deal minute by minute into Israel to talk to the stakeholders on the ground and try and ensure that as many safeguards are in place, so that this deal does not get derailed. None of this is easy. 
 
This has been intense in negotiation to pull this off. Like I say, the two sides have absolutely no trust in each other. And we are seeing these pockets of concern, as I suggested with the Palestinians saying that Israel is not releasing the profile of the prisoners that they want to see. On the flip side, the Israelis telling Hamas, you promised that you would keep families together. Will they keep to that? 
 
So there's a lot of -- there's a lot of issues that could derail this deal. We're only in day two of what is an official four-day truce, which could be extended if it all goes to plan. But those involved in getting this across the line are absolutely determined that they will do whatever it takes to keep this deal in place. 
 
After all, at the heart of this are women, children, the elderly, soldiers, Israeli soldiers, then are included in this deal. On the flip side, of course of Palestinian prisoners, women, and teenagers. 
 
So important times. We'll stay on it because this it couldn't be more important. These hours ahead of what happens are absolutely crucial before we see these prisoners and hostages released, Victor.
 
BLACKWEL: You remind us that this is a multifaceted deal. And we focus on the numbers and the pictures and the faces of these hostages. But there are so many opportunities for this to be derailed by potentially some of those in Gaza, those in Doha, those in Cairo as well, many players here, we of course, have you there. We'll get back to you. Becky, thank you. 
 
Joining me now is the former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for legislative affairs in the Obama administration, Joel Rubin, also a candidate for a seat in Congress. 
 
Joel, let me start here with you and your degree of optimism, before we get to the points in which this could be derailed the first 30 hours, your thoughts that it seems to be holding?
 
JOEL RUBIN, FORMER DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE UNDER OBAMA: Victor, it's great to be with you. And I'm heartened by how it has gone so far in that it has occurred, there was a lot of concern, especially with the first delay of 24 hours that it may not hold. 
 
So I'm very confident that this first batch, this four-day truce that this is going to continue. I think that what we're watching what Becky reported on it makes me nervous, quite frankly, about the subsequent days because those are supposed to be on a daily basis of an exchange of kidnap Israelis for a certain amount of aid, a certain truce, maybe more releases on the Palestinian side. So that's a little less stable. So, I feel like we're in a very narrow windows stability before things get dicey again.
 
BLACKWELL: Let me ask you about the first hostages who have been released no Americans among them when you were on with lower coat (ph), it could be the beginning of this before the window open right after it's been approved in in Israel.
 
You said that this was crucial. This was an opportunity for President Biden to show that his leadership is showing results for the American people by the release of Americans. We didn't see any Americans in that first tranche. Politically, how important is that to see them come out today, tomorrow as this goes on?
 
RUBIN: Well, it's very important. Look, Hamas, regrettably, is controlling the names controlling the list. There's no independent arbiter that is looking at a list and deciding who goes this is Hamas. And it's making some political calculation is. 
 
One thing about Hamas clearly said it understands the PR game, and it is going to hold on to it looks like these Americans for a little bit longer. I think that the President is weighing in on this and just getting this brokered is a win in and of itself. 
 
But clearly Qatar in particular, our ally who's been negotiating this and being in closest touch Hamas. They need to get the point across that there needs to be results for the American people as well. There are, I believe, 13 Americans is the number that I've been hearing but they need to come out and they need to come out soon. 
 
BLACKWELL: The number I've heard is 10 with potentially the President said three could be released his hope and expectation --
 
RUBIN: Right.
 
BLACKWELL: -- as he said that there could be those released. The President also said that as it relates to aid to Israel, setting preconditions is a worst worthwhile thought. Senator Sanders wrote in New York Times this week that the blank check approach to aid for Israel must end. 
 
Do you support considering what we're seeing with the now additional aid going in? 
 <br>[06:20:02]
 
Do you support preconditions being tied to aid to Israel?
 
RUBIN: You know, I don't right now, Victor, and I don't because the preconditions would -- how would they be defined, who's going to monitor those preconditions, certainly, human rights concerns that we have in our law, those are long standing, those need to continue. That's nothing different between Israel and any other country that receives military assistance. 
 
But, you know, up till now, Israel hasn't even received the supplemental request that the President asked for the $14.3 billion. What they're doing is they're defending their territory. And what they're doing is they're attempting to try to ensure that Hamas doesn't regroup. They do have to take all necessary actions within international law, as our aid recipients do. And when they violate that there needs to be discussions about preconditions. 
 
Once you start putting that on the map, that is incredibly difficult to define as far as what dollars go to what specific outcome. These are for defense systems. And the dialogue on the United States and Israel bilaterally needs to make sure that Israel is adhering to international law and human rights concerns that we have, broadly speaking, I think that should do the job.
 
BLACKWELL: Well, as you pointed out, that any recipient of U.S. military aid is required to abide by international law. But there have been several independent organizations, the World Health Organization, International Committee of the Red Cross and Amnesty International, former members of the ICC which neither the U.S. or Israel are party, but have suggested that there may be concerns of collective punishment. 
 
The blockades of food and water early on are concerns for them. So, would those being spelled out in some legislation, you're running for Congress, not be appropriate here as Senator Sanders suggest?
 
RUBIN: It's always important to point out the concern, and it's always appropriate to send messages to the Israelis directly, as well as through the United States. Congress can speak directly to Israel. And they of course, can also ask the president to enforce policy. 
 
It's always appropriate to say that collective punishment is something that should not be done. But that does not necessarily mean that collective punishment in legislation needs to be written, no collective punishment. That's a known. That's a known and that needs to have monitoring and oversight. 
 
And I think that it's a broader picture. What Israel's defense is doing right now it's taking a pause. It's taking a pause because it needs to take a pause for all the reasons you've laid out. But Hamas is not laying down its weapons. You know, Hamas is not calling for a ceasefire, Hamas is regrouping and getting ready for the fight going forward. 
 
And so I think, for Israel, to be told that it needs to no longer defend itself. That's a bridge too far.
 
BLACKWELL: And we'll certainly get into with our military experts throughout the morning what Hamas is doing during this period, especially during those windows during which the U.S. and Israel have agreed to no longer fly those surveillance drones for several hours per day. Joel Rubin. Good to have you as part of the conversation. Thank you so much. 
 
RUBIN: Thanks, Victor.
 
ROSALES: We're getting new information in by the minute as Hamas prepares to hand over the next group of hostages being held in Gaza. Up next, a spokesperson for the Red Cross the agency at the center of these hostage releases. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:27:53]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Doha, with Victor and Isabel, back in the States. It is the tune of what is this four-day humanitarian pause in Gaza mediated by a team here in Qatar. The first day relatively successful, certainly a huge success for the families of 13 Israeli hostages who were released on Friday and for the families of 39 Palestinian prisoners who were released from Israeli jails. So onwards into today and a similar process expected today in the
 
 release of at least 13 Israeli hostages on a list held by Hamas. If it is 13, that will be another 39 Palestinian prisoners released in exchange the numbers could possibly change but we're looking at least 13 on the Israeli side, at least 39 on the Palestinian side.
 
What we also see on the ground here, sorry, in Gaza, is the humanitarian truce holding, that is important. There are safeguards in place from the observation team to ensure that happens that guns are silent and humanitarian aid is rolling in over the Rafah border to those who need it most. 
 
The process as we understand it is similar to what happened yesterday. So around 9:00 a.m., Eastern Time 4:00 p.m. local time, we should expect to hear news that these hostages, women and children remember and expect a number of children from Hamas today to be released. That will be around at 4:00 p.m. local time.
 
For the people of Gaza, let me just bring up a video for you. For the people of Gaza, and let let's not forget, 1.7 million people who've been displaced who have been living in a war.
 <br>[06:30:00]
 
Here is a little fella called Abdullah Al Machide (ph). This video we shot at the beginning of the conflict, and in it, he talked about being terrified of what is going on. He is walking to charge his phone, there is no electricity. There is one charging point on a generator at that point. That's about five weeks ago. 
 
Well, yesterday, Abdullah(ph), a video of Abdullah(ph) was posted online. And have a look at this. It is Abdullah(ph) talking about -- I don't know if we can bring it up -- it's a video of Abdullah(ph) anyway, yesterday, a picture of him with a blue sky talking about the fact that for the first time in this conflict, the skies are completely empty. Look at his face, the difference on his face. He says, "we are happy. 
 
The skies are clear. There is no noise", he says. "This is life in Gaza." That is life in Gaza today, Victor and Isabel, for the children of Gaza who have been living through an absolute trauma, of course, since this conflict began some 49 days ago. Let's hope this truce lasts. It's four days in the outset. It could be extended. At this stage, it really depends. It's so fragile. It really depends on how these warring parties perform as far as these hostage and prisoner exchanges are concerned. But at least, at present, the guns are silent. Victor, Isabel --   
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes, and day-by-day might be too long of an increment to measure the success of this. We've got to get hour-by-hour as we're watching the exchange -- 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes -- 
 
BLACKWELL:  Between the parties here. Becky Anderson there bringing that video of a young boy who was happy just to see a clear blue sky. If this holds, that will be for several days, for four days, it could go up to ten if Hamas continues to release ten hostages per day.  
 
ROSALES:  It's such a precarious situation. 
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes. All right, here's a live look at the Rafah Border Crossing, this is between Egypt and Gaza. We're waiting for the release of 14 potentially Israeli hostages in exchange for 42 Palestinian prisoners. Those are the numbers that are released by Israeli officials. So again, as a reminder, this is a 3 to 1 release for every one Israeli hostage released, the deal is that three in Israeli prisons, three Palestinian prisoners will be transferred. They're going to the West Bank. 
 
This is after a day of a successful exchange. The first set of hostages getting out of Gaza, they were transported in vehicles marked by the symbols of the Red Cross. 
 
ROSALES:  And that organization is a neutral intermediary, and it's now playing a critical role in these releases. Joining us now is Chris Hanger; spokesman for the International Committee of the Red Cross. Chris, thank you for being with us. The world saw your people driving those hostages yesterday. Can you tell us what your role will be in today's hostage and prisoner release? And is there anything different that you guys are doing compared to yesterday? 
 
CHRIS HANGER, SPOKESPERSON, INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS: Thanks for having me. What I can speak about right now is today's potential operations, because obviously, you understand it's extremely sensitive. What I can speak about is the process of yesterday, and as you've seen and as your viewers have seen, we have been able to get the hostages, to welcome them in Gaza. 
 
You've seen images where we welcomed them from Hamas, and then we were able to bring them -- to bring  them across the border to Egypt and back to safety. And what I think is really important to stress here is that the anguish and also, yes, the raw emotions in this operation -- and, you know, I've spoken to some of our colleagues, and really about what our role is here as a neutral -- as you say like a neutral intermediary. 
 
As we need to get people out. Once an agreement between the parties to the conflict has been reached, that's our added value. And you've seen this in action yesterday, and that, hopefully, there will be more positive news. It's a first good step, it's also something of a trust building exercise between the parties to the conflict. 
 
And yes, we are relieved that this happened, but obviously, the conflict is currently, obviously in a state where more humanitarian aid is needed, but also where still hostages are being kept, and we hope that -- yes, more good news will come.  
 
BLACKWELL:  Are you given the numbers of hostages and prisoners that will be transferred ahead of time? The reason I ask is because the 14 hostages and 42 prisoners that will be transferred, that's from an Israeli official. Have -- has the Red Cross been given those numbers of those they'll be asked to assist with today? HANGER:  What I can tell you is that we -- once an agreement between
 
 the parties of the conflict has been -- has been reached, so we are not involved in the negotiations. 
 <br>[06:35:00] 
 
We're implementing an agreement -- 
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes -- 
 
HANGER:  And obviously, what needs to be clear is what are the roles? What are the exact timings? We can't forget this is a -- this is a conflict zone. Who is going to be released? Where exactly? And that's obviously all the information that needs to be clear before. So, you know, we are kind of implementing an agreement that has been clear before, but obviously, we need to have clear information of when and what is going to happen. 
 
ROSALES:  And Chris, you had to negotiate with Hamas, a known terror group to help make yesterday and today, hopefully happen. What is that like? How delicate are these conversations, and also dealing with these hostages, some of which are children that did not know that their family members had been killed. How is that like? 
 
HANGER:  It's obviously -- it's anguish. It's a difficult situation for those that have been kept hostage, but also for the families for those that have been released, it's something that I think we can't really understand. It's pure raw emotions. So, it's -- yes, where our colleagues are -- also we're heavily involved in this -- in this operation. 
 
So they have seen those raw emotion, and what I've heard is that, yes, people that have been released, that once they saw our colleagues and once they saw the Red Cross vehicles, they obviously were hopeful that at some point, they're going to be in a safer place. Now in the negotiations, it's something that we do. We're a neutral organization that works all around the world in conflict zone, and we speak to everybody that's involved in the fighting, everybody who is carrying guns. 
 
And that is why we can do the things that we did yesterday as a neutral organization because otherwise, if there's no open channel, you can't work on humanitarian grounds and you can't -- yes, help with the release of hostages, so even bringing humanitarian aid into most complex conflict zones around the world.  
 
BLACKWELL:  What could you tell us about the hostages who remain in Hamas' custody. Their conditions if anything? 
 
HANGER:  So, we've been repeatedly asking for access, or even that we are able, that something we do in all conflict zones is to facilitate messages between family members. We continue to ask them, and we obviously -- we are -- we can't force ourselves upon those that are fighting, upon those that, you know, hold captives. But what we do is behind closed doors, in public, we've been repeatedly asking for having access, for being able to check on the health of the remaining ones that are captive. 
 
And we hope that, you know, there's going to be more agreements like the ones that we've seen yesterday -- 
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes -- 
 
HANGER:  In the next days, so that more people, yes, can be reunited with their loved ones. 
 
BLACKWELL:  All right, Chris Hanger with the Red Cross. Thank you so much. President Biden vows his administration will not stop until all hostages are released. What he's saying about the potential release of American hostages. That's ahead.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[06:40:00] 
 
ROSALES:  As families celebrate the return of their loved ones, President Biden is also hailing the release and calling for more cooperation.  
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes, the second tranche is expected to be released soon, 14 people according to an Israeli sources, bringing CNN's Arlette Saenz. Arlette, the first tranche did not include Americans, but the president says he remains hopeful. 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, President Biden says that the U.S. will not stop until these hostages are back home, but so far, the White House has yet to say whether they believe any Americans will be part of this initial batch. President Biden said it's his hope and expectation that these Americans will start to get out in the coming days, that includes two women and also 4-year-old Abigail Idan(ph) whose parents were killed in the October 7th Hamas attack. 
 
But take a listen to what President Biden had to say as he had few details about when and who exactly will be coming out in the coming days.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  We don't know when that will occur, but we're going to be expected to occur. And we don't know what the list of all the hostages are, and when they'll be released. But we know the numbers that are going to be released. And so, it's my hope and expectation it'll be soon. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SAENZ:  So, so many questions about when exactly those Americans will get out. But President Biden hailed that first hostage release that started yesterday, saying that, that was just the beginning of the process, but that officials feel things were going well. There's been a lot of focus on the implementation of this deal. And officials had really been viewing that first day, and also today, as a testing period to make sure that all the plans are in place and going according to plan. 
 
So, there's a -- White House is watching today with high anticipation and hope that those Americans will be getting out soon.  
 
BLACKWELL:  Arlette Saenz in Nantucket travelling with the president. Thank you. In remote areas of Ghana, accessing medical care is often impossible. It means enduring lengthy walks or costly hospitals. Our next top ten CNN Hero is determined to make a change. He's committed to bringing healthcare to these remote areas. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
OSEI BOATENG, PHYSICIAN:  We've been to communities where they haven't seen a doctor before. Literally, they haven't been to the hospital before. We've designed a van like a clinic, depending on the person's condition, if the doctor needs -- additional labs were done, we have some point of care labs that we do in the van. We have medications for them, so it's like a one-stop shop for people. 
 
Up-to-date, we've served over 4,000 people. So imagine if we had two or three vans. Our vision is to really expand. Words cannot describe the feeling that you get providing care for someone who otherwise wouldn't be alive if your mobile health van wasn't there. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BLACKWELL:  Osei Boateng has delivered free healthcare to more than 4,000 people in 45 rural communities. Go to cnnheroes.com to vote for him or CNN Hero of the Year or any other of your favorites. Go to that website, you can do it ten times per day every day. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:45:00] 
 
ROSALES:  Developing this morning, a former Minneapolis police officer convicted of killing George Floyd was assaulted in federal prison. That is according to CNN sources.   
 
BLACKWELL:  Let's bring in now CNN's Carlos Suarez. So what did the attorney general had to say about this?  
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Victor and Isabel, good morning. So the Minnesota State Attorney General Keith Ellison said that he was aware of this incident and that the 47-year-old was assaulted and is in stable condition.
 <br>[06:50:00] 
 
Now, Ellison also added that of course, Chauvin should be able to serve out his sentence without the fear of violence or the possibility of any retaliation. Now, the stabbing we're told happened yesterday at a medium security federal prison out in Tucson, Arizona. Now, the details leading up to that stabbing are still unclear at this hour.  
 
Prison officials really did not give a whole lot of information about what happened out here, other than to say that life-saving measures were used, and that none of their employees were hurt. Now, Chauvin is serving two concurrent sentences on federal and state charges. Again, we're told he was stabbed and is expected to be OK.  
 
BLACKWELL:  All right -- 
 
ROSALES:  Good news there, Carlos Suarez, thank you -- 
 
BLACKWELL:  Thank you. 
 
ROSALES:  We are also keeping a close eye on the war in Ukraine where overnight, Russian forces have launched a wave of drone attacks targeting Kyiv. We'll go live to the Ukrainian capital. That's next.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:55:00]
 
BLACKWELL:  Russia's war on Ukraine now. Ukrainian Air Force officials say Russia launched more drones on their country than ever before.   
 
ROSALES:  CNN's Anna Coren is in Kyiv. And Anna, there have been fires due to drones being intercepted including near a kindergarten. What can you tell us?  
 
ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, that's right. We are outside that kindergarten where one of the 75 drones that was launched by Russia overnight. It was shot down and the debris fell on this kindergarten. You can see the destruction here. It was -- you know, the yard was just strewn with rubble, and then just over here, meters away, windows were shattered in many of the apartment buildings.  
 
So, as you say, an unprecedented number of drones, 75 were launched, 74 were shot down. It started at around 2:30 this morning and lasted for more than six hours. Now, the whole aim of this is to hit Ukraine's energy infrastructure. You know, temperatures have plunged, we're now in Winter. So this is what Russia is trying to do. Hit the energy infrastructure and terrorize the population.   
 
BLACKWELL:  Anna Coren reporting for us from Kyiv. Thank you so much. Hundreds of families are waiting anxiously to find out if their loved ones will be one of the hostages released in a matter of hours. We'll take you back to the region for all the latest developments. That's next.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)