Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Biden Defends Decision On Cluster Munitions; Yellen Urges Cooperation On Climate; Public Fears Spike Over Fukushima Wastewater Release. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired July 08, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
LAILA HARRAK, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to all of our viewers joining us from around the world. I'm Laila Harrak. Ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. Biden defends a difficult decision to send cluster munitions to Ukraine. Why the weapons banned by more than 100 countries are so controversial.
 
Yellen urges China to cooperate on climate change. On her second day in Beijing, the U.S. Treasury secretary is pressing for the U.S. and China to work more closely on climate issues. 
 
Calming public fears in South Korea, with Japan set to start releasing wastewater from the Fukushima nuclear sites. The head of the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog heads to Seoul looking to ease the public's radiation concerns.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Laila Harrak.
 
HARRAK: Good to be back with you. The surprise U.S. reversal on sending cluster bombs to Ukraine is provoking strong international condemnation. These weapons are banned by more than 100 countries but not Russia, Ukraine or the United States. A big drawback is that many bomblets don't explode right away and pose lethal hazards for years afterward. A cluster munitions have already been used in Ukraine, such as this Russian attack last year.
 
But this will be the first time the U.S. will be supplying them. In an exclusive interview with CNN's Fareed Zakaria, U.S. President Joe Biden explained the rationale behind his decision.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They're trying to get through those trenches, and those -- and then stop those tanks from rolling. And so -- but it was not an easy decision. 
 
But the main thing is, they either have the weapon to stop the Russians now from their -- keep them from stopping the Ukrainian offensive through these areas, or they don't. And I think they needed them.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) HARRAK: Ukraine's president tweeted his appreciation of the new U.S. military aid, predicting it will speed up an end to the war, but there's been swift backlash, including from members of President Biden's own party. Two Democratic senators wrote in The Washington Post. Cluster munitions such as landmines undeniably offer some battlefield advantages, yet using them would compound the already devastating impact of the war on civilians and Ukrainian troops, with effects lasting for years to come.
 
The revised U.S. policy was also denounced at the United Nations. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FARHAN HAQ, UNITED NATIONS SPOKESPERSON: The Secretary General supports the convention on cluster munitions, which as, you know, was adopted 15 years ago. And he wants countries to abide by the terms of that convention. And so, as a result, of course, he does not want there to be continued use of cluster munitions on the battlefield.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: And Natasha Bertrand is at the Pentagon and has more on this story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)  
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: The E.U. was announced on Friday that it will be providing Ukraine with those controversial cluster munitions. A weapon that has banned by over 100 countries around the world, including key U.S. allies like the U.K. and Germany. Now, the U.S. defended its decision by saying that the clustering munitions are what Ukraine needs right now, in order to successfully continue its counter offensive against Russia. 
 
Ukrainians are running very low on artillery ammunition and are burning through it at a very high rate. And the U.S. is worried that if they continue to use this much artillery ammunition throughout the next several months, then they could run out. U.S. us simply can't produce it at a rate that is fast enough that Ukraine can continue is counteroffensive. So, the U.S. now saying they want to tap into these cluster munitions that will provide Ukraine with a bridge, a temporary bridge to serve until the U.S. and the West is able to produce more of that more conventional ammunition.
 
Now, there are of course, concerns by allies about this provision of U.S. cluster munitions to Ukraine because many of them have, in fact, banned the munition. And the problem with these cluster munitions is that they can actually fail to explode on impact and they can pose a long-term risk to civilians that is very similar to the danger that is posed by land.
 <br>[02:05:00]
 
But the U.S. says that they have managed to convince allies behind the scenes in conversations over the last several weeks that this is what Ukraine needs right now. And importantly, they note according to the U.S. national security adviser who spoke to reporters today, the Ukrainians would be using these to defend their own territory and take back their land from Russia, not to attack another country as Russia has done.
 
Importantly, that is why they believe, the U.S. believes that Ukraine is not going to use these cluster munitions to target civilian areas inside Ukraine. Ukraine wants to protect its own population. And it's apparently given the U.S. assurances that it will do everything possible to avoid at civilian areas while it is conducting its counteroffensive.
 
Natasha Bertrand, CNN at the Pentagon.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: Well, earlier seen and spoke about this with retired Air Force General Philip Breedlove. A former NATO Supreme Allied Commander for Europe. Breedlove was asked if he accepts the President's explanation for sending U.S. cluster bombs to Ukraine now despite the weapons being off limits before. Here he speaking with CNN's Jake Tapper.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GEN. PHILIP BREEDLOVE, U.S. AIR FORCE (RET.): I do agree with using these weapons. And the president made some good points as did your other commentator. The fact of the matter is we have held on to them for a very specific need and a very specific part of the world for a very specific war plan. We would not be holding on to them if we didn't see a very important requirement.
 
Now, on this battlefield, as was explained, Russia is using a very different type. They're munitions leave almost 30 percent behind unexploded. And that is what we are concerned about. And Russia has used these weapons specifically in civilian areas.
 
Neither would be the case in what we bring to the battlefield. The DPICM has got about a 1.85 dud rate. So, 30 percent for Russia, 1.05 percent for ours. Very different munition and as the President pointed out, the Ukrainians are going to use them in all the military places.
 
So, yes, I fall on the side of if they'll allow Ukraine to use these weapons precisely and within those limitations on the battlefield.
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: But the counter argument obviously would be, A, that is not -- no unexploded ordinance left behind, 0.5. And B, because of the zone of explosion, the risk of collateral damage is not inconsiderable, right?
 
BREEDLOVE: The fact of the matter is that it will be much more limited in both number and scope because of the way that the Ukrainians have agreed to use them. And I must note that the Ukrainians on all of the munitions we have given them have been very attentive to the limitations that we have placed on them.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) HARRAK: And that was retired U.S. Air Force General Philip Breedlove speaking earlier with CNN.
 
Five hundred days into the war. Ukraine has been trying to shore up more support from NATO countries to ensure its long-term safety. Well, earlier Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan who pledged to back Ukraine's future membership in the NATO Alliance.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): Of course, today we also touched upon the key aspects of our cooperation within NATO, particularly regarding preparation for the summit in Vilnius. During our conversation, I raised the issue of Ukraine's indentation to NATO. I was pleased to hear the President say that Ukraine deserves to become a member of NATO.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: Well, Presidents Zelenskyy also spoke with Mr. Erdogan about potentially extending a deal with Russia to export Ukrainian green through the black scene.
 
While the meeting in Turkey marks president Zelenskyy's latest diplomatic trip to a NATO country. It comes just days before the alliance is said to hold a summit where they will discuss Ukraine's possible membership.
 
The White House National Security Adviser says Ukraine will not be joining the Alliance during the summit in Lithuania next week. But Jake Sullivan insists that the gathering will still mark an important step in the country's path toward membership. Here's what he told reporters at the White House.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLILVAN, WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Vilnius will be an important moment on that pathway towards membership because the United States or our NATO allies in Ukraine will have the opportunity to discuss the reforms that are still necessary for NATO to -- for Ukraine to come up to NATO standards. So, this will, in fact be a milestone. But Ukraine still has further steps it needs to take before membership.
 
Ukraine will not be joining NATO coming out of this summit. We will discuss what steps are necessary as it continues along this path.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:10:06]
 
HARRAK: The U.S. and China are holding key meetings as both countries work to repair their fractured relations. U.S. Secretary -- U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen is in the middle of a four-day trip to Beijing. And on Friday, she met with China's Premier Li Qiang and who said Beijing hopes the U.S. will meet it halfway and push their relations back on track soon. Well, earlier today, Yellen met with climate finance leaders and female economists.
 
And next hour she is set to meet with China's Vice Premier. And CNN's Anna Coren joins us now live from Hong Kong with the latest. So good to have you with us, Anna. The U.S. Treasury Secretary on a visit to revive these very strange ties and has urged China to cooperate on climate change.
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Urged China and the U.S. to cooperate. They have a responsibility to work together. Yes. We heard from the U.S. Ambassador Nick Burns and he said that Janet Yellen has meetings thus far have been very productive at helping to get the U.S.-China relationship. Back on track. As you say, this morning, she held a roundtable with climate finance leaders where she said that the threat of climate change was a top global challenge. And both countries must work together. Let's take a listen to what she said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JANET YELLEN, UNITED STATES TREASURY SECRETARY: The world's two largest emitters of greenhouse gases and the largest investors in renewable energy. We have both a joint responsibility and ability to lead the way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: But Laila, Yellen's most important meeting was yesterday with Chinese Premier Li Qiang. It went on twice as long as scheduled, which would obviously show that they had a lot to talk about. Beijing sees Janet Yellen as a voice of reason within the Biden administration and economic pragmatist. You know, we know that she's pushed to maintain economic ties with China, argued against tariffs and warned that decoupling would be disastrous.
 
And certainly, the Chinese Premier alluded to that. Let's take a listen to what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LI QIANG, CHINESE PREMIER (through translator): Secretary Yellen, you have long been engaged in China-U.S. exchanges and cooperation. In particular China-U.S. economic and trade relationships. You are not just a participant, but also a builder.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: The U.S. Treasury Secretary responded by saying that the Biden administration seeks healthy economic competition, not winner take all that will, you know, benefit both countries. And that disagreements should not lead to misunderstandings that would worsen the bilateral relationship. Remember, this is all about reestablishing communication. Yellen also yesterday met with representatives of the U.S. business community and we really got an insight, Laila, into the challenges that she is in fact facing on this visit. You know, she expressed concern about China's punitive actions taken against U.S. firms in recent months. Also, China's decision this week to control exports of critical minerals used in technologies like semiconductors. This, of course, is a tit for tat over further U.S. restrictions on technology trade with China including potential limits on advanced chips and U.S. investment in China citing U.S. national security.
 
As we know this is a huge issue. And really at the core of so many of the problems between the U.S. and China economically. This afternoon, we know that Janet Yellen will be meeting with Vice Premier He Lifeng. And we know he's a loyalist to Xi Jinping. Janet Yellen will not be meeting with the Chinese leader. But whatever his thoughts and whatever message he wants conveyed, we know that will be taking place this afternoon, Laila.
 
HARRAK: Anna Coren reporting live from Hong Kong. Thank you. Now, a big change is coming to the Netherlands. Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte says he is tendering his entire cabinets resignation to the king. Blaming the government collapse on a failure to come to an agreement with his coalition partners about immigration policy. While the crisis came after Rutte's Conservative Party pushed to limits the flow of asylum seekers from the Netherlands but half of his coalition refused to support.
 
Mr. Rutte says the differences among the coalition members on this topic are "insurmountable."
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARK RUTTE, DUTCH PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Migration is a large and important issue both socially and politically. Now that we have failed to reach an agreement on this issue, we in the cabinet met to discuss the situation and collectively decided that the coalition had lost its political foundation. That is extremely regrettable, and at the same time, a political reason we cannot avoid.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:15:01]
 
HARRAK: While the Prime Minister says the next step is to set new elections.
 
Still ahead. 12 years on from disaster. Official are trying to alleviate fears surrounding the plant to release treated wastewater from the Fukushima nuclear power plants. But that's not sitting well with many in the region.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK: In Eastern Brazil, at least eight people including two small children are confirmed dead in the collapse of an apartment building in the coastal city of Recife. Well, rescuers say they pulled four survivors from the rubble but five people are still missing. According to city officials, the four-storey structure collapsed shortly after sunrise on Friday morning. While most people were still asleep. While the cause is unknown, but the area has been experiencing very heavy rains.
 
And at least three railway officials are now under arrest in India following last month's deadly crash. India's Central Bureau of Investigation announced the U.S. on Friday. It's part of an ongoing investigation. More than 280 people were killed and more than a thousand were injured in the crash in eastern Odisha. State involving two passenger trains and a freight train. It was India's worst rail disaster in more than two decades.
 
The head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog is set to meet with South Korean officials on Saturday. He's making the visit to calm public fears over Japan's plan to release wastewater from the Fukushima nuclear site. It's a controversial move 12 years after the plants melt down. The water will be treated to remove the most harmful pollutants and will be released gradually over many years and highly diluted quantities.
 
Here's the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Tokyo on Friday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAFAEL GROSSI, DIRECTOR GENERAL, INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY: I believe that the work we have carried out so far is solid work, serious work. But of course, from their own perspective, they are on the receiving line and they may see things differently.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: Well, the Japanese authorities and U.N. officials insist that the plan is safe. But public anxiety remains high, including a neighboring countries such as South Korea where many fishermen and consumers have concerns.
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks reports now from Seoul.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Lee Gi-sam (ph) watches his crew unload the catch from the night fishing. Mackerel, anchovies and yellow tail fished off the southeast coast of South Korea close to Japan. The IAEA, the International Atomic Energy Agency gave Japan the green light this week to release treated wastewater from the Fukushima nuclear power plant. Lee and his fellow fishermen are worried.
 <br>[02:20:08]
 
LEE GI-SAM, SOUTH KOREAN FISHERMAN (through translator): I have my doubts. I don't trust the South Korean government. They keep talking about scientific verification without announcing any plans for the future.
 
HANCOCKS (voiceover): The IAEA says Japan's plan meets international safety standards but a Gallup Korea survey from June shows 78 percent of those polled said they were very or somewhat worried about contamination of seafood.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I will probably stop eating seafood once the water is released.
 
LEE GI-SAM, SOUTH KOREAN FISHERMAN (through translator): If the public avoids seafood, we will face bankruptcy. I think it's going to massively hurt the business.
 
HANCOCKS (voiceover): Lee says he's not sure he would let his own children eat seafood after the release. Adding he'd been a fisherman for more than 30 years and has no other skills.
 
South Koreans have been panic buying sea salt. It's rare to find it on the supermarket shelves anymore. Wholesale prices have soared more than 40 percent since April.
 
The government has been releasing salt reserves to try and cool prices claiming weather has also played a significant role in the jump. South Korea's government says it will maintain a ban on Japanese seafood imports from the Fukushima area in place since 2013 but does respect the IAEA report.
 
For Lee and thousands like him, the future is uncertain, dependent on the public's trust or lack of in seafood.
 
LEE: I want to live and work in my fishing village until my last day.
 
HANCOCKS (voiceover): Paula Hancocks, CNN, Seoul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: Iran has reportedly executed two men accused of a deadly shrine attack last year. The state-run news agency IRNA reports the attack on a shrine in southern Iran killed 13 people and injured dozens more in October 2020. The funerals drew huge crowds as you can see. CNN reported at the time that ISIS had claimed responsibility but it's not clear if the attack was related to protests the same day that marked 40 days after a 22-year-old woman died in police custody for apparently not wearing her hijab properly.
 
The escalating violence in the Mideast has claimed another victim according to the Palestinian health ministry. A Palestinian man was killed by Israeli forces in the occupied West Bank on Friday. The official Palestinian news agency reports residence in a town in the West Bank had planned a protest march against a new illegal settler outpost nearby. But the Israel Defense Forces tell CNN it responded with live fire after Palestinian residents instigated a violent riot and threw rocks at Israel border police forces. The town is no stranger to violence. This was the scene there just two weeks ago.
 
An Israeli border police officer would has been acquitted of charges related to the fatal shooting of a Palestinian man with autism two years ago in Jerusalem's old city. Protesters rallied outside the courtroom prior to the verdict. The officer said he thought the 32- year-old man had a gun. Police chased after him and shouted in Hebrew to stop. The man's mother said her son had the mental capacity of a six-year-old and did not speak or understand Hebrew. Israeli police confirmed after the shooting that he was not armed.
 
On Friday, the mass shooter who killed nearly two dozen people at a Wal-Mart in El Paso, Texas was sentenced to 90 consecutive life terms. Patrick Crusius showed no emotion as a sentence was announced. It pleaded guilty as part of a plea deal that kept the death penalty off the table but he still faces capital punishment in eight state case. Rose a Flores has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A federal judge has sentenced Patrick Crusius to 90 consecutive life sentences in prison in relation to the 2019 El Paso Wal-Mart shooting, which is considered one of the deadliest attacks on Hispanics in modern U.S. history. During the allocution, which is when both parties are able to make a statement, the defense said that the shooter takes responsibility, but then went on to blame the shooter's mental illness.
 
Now, the prosecution rejected that, saying that the judge in this case should really just focus on the facts of the case, which in this case include that a shooter drove to the city of El Paso and went on a hate-filled rampage against Hispanics, and ended up killing and wounding dozens of people. Now, this act, according to the victims that spoke in open court, did shatter the sense of safety in this community.
 
But what it didn't do is it didn't shatter the sense of pride in this Mexican-American border town, where many of the individuals who live in the city are Mexican-Americans.
 <br>[02:25:10]
 
Now, for the victims, it was very difficult for them to be in the same courtroom with the shooter, but many of them said it was important for them to be there. Take a listen.
 
CHRISTOPHER MORALES, NEWPHEW OF VICTIM: I think it's about what's going on in -- with all the white supremacists, all the hate. I just feel also that nothing is going to change. You need to do due diligence and due process to a mass shooter.
 
DEAN RECKARD, SON OF VICTIM: This was really hard. A lot of it just hearing what the families had seen, I don't know how you could sit through that and not have a tear in your eye.
 
FLORES: As the hearing ended, and the shooter was being walked out by U.S. Marshals, Dean Reckard, he's the son of Margie Reckard, a victim in the El Paso shooting yelled out, "We'll be seeing you again, coward." Now, he's referring to the state case because the shooter is facing a capital murder charge in the state.
 
Now, the death penalty is still on the table in that case, the shooter has pleaded not guilty, that trial has not been set yet.
 
Rosa Flores, CNN, El Paso. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: Still ahead. From friend to foe after falling out of favor with the Russian leader, Yevgeny Prigozhin hasn't been seen in public for two weeks. And his fate is up in the air.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK: Welcome back to all of our viewers around the world. I'm Laila Harrak. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. Belarus says it has put on hold plans to host Wagner mercenaries after their short-lived rebellion in Russia. President Alexander Lukashenko told CNN that Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin is currently not in Belarus and neither are his forces.
 
But should they come he says, the country has set up a camp that would house them. CNN's Matthew Chance reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): This is the closest we've ever come to a Wagner camp. Not in Russia, nor the Ukrainian front lines, but standing empty for now, in Belarus.
 
CHANCE: Well, this is where we thought that Wagner soldiers invited to Belarus could be housed, in fast tent city. That this -- supposedly, this used military base, about 100 kilometers, 70 miles or so outside of the Belarusian capital.
 
In tents like these that have been set up to house a couple of dozen fighters at any given time. That for the most part, empty at the moment.
 <br>[02:30:09]
 
And that's because the plan to invite Wagner and its leader over here into Belarus after their military uprising in Russia now appears to be on hold.
 
CHANCE (voiceover): Recent satellite images showed how quickly the camp at Asipovichy was transformed, ready to house large numbers of troops at short notice.
 
And the Belarusian general who gave us access, told me, Wagner forces could still be deployed here if the political decision is made.
 
There is room for up to 5,000 soldiers at this camp alone, he tells me. And we have other facilities too.
 
CHANCE: Have you been told to prepare this camp for the possible arrival of Wagner fighters? Is that what you were told?
 
CHANCE (voice over): We've prepared it for training and for territorial defense, he says.
 
It was the sudden announcement by the leader of Belarus that neither Wagner nor its leader was in fact in the country that seems to have thrown planning into disarray.
 
Lukashenko insists his offer, which helps bring Wagner's armed uprising to an end last month is still on the table.
 
But with new questions over Wagner and its leader, it seems unlikely this would-be Wagner camp will ever now be filled.
 
Matthew Chance, CNN, Asipovichy, in Belarus.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: Prigozhin fate in Russia remains as uncertain as his whereabouts. Once the Wagner chief was considered a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and a crucial part of the country's operations in Ukraine. But after he let that short-lived uprising last month, he was branded a traitor by the Russian leader. Well, now many are wondering how Mr. Putin will deal with Prigozhin and what will become of him, especially now that he's out of the public view. 
 
Joining me now is Jill Dougherty. She is a CNN contributor and former CNN Moscow bureau chief and she's also an adjunct professor at Georgetown University. Jill, so many unanswered questions still. The ways of the Kremlin opaquer than ever, and the whereabouts of Prigozhin a mystery. Let's start with the Wagner group leader who's not been seen in public for quite some time now. He was once omnipresent. Is he being erased at the moment?
 
JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Well, that's the question, isn't it? I mean, he's definitely disappeared to a certain extent. At least, nobody can definitively say where he is. And then we had the bombshell just a couple of days ago where the president of Belarus said, surprise, surprise, he's not here in Belarus which was the deal to put down that uprising by Prigozhin. No, actually, he's back in Russia, back maybe St. Petersburg, maybe Moscow? Who knows?
 
But this was really shocking because, you know, the -- when you think of that uprising, which now is a while ago, at least a couple of weeks, that that was such a bombshell and to have it all of a sudden stopped looked like a plus for Putin. And the deal apparently was brokered by Lukashenko. And now Lukashenko is saying, the complete opposite from what that deal was supposed to be. So, it is very strange.
 
HARRAK: I'm going to talk to you in a second about the role that the Belarusian President seems to be playing here. But is it possible to determine independently where Prigozhin is and also, you know, is it strange that he can move freely if he can?
 
DOUGHERTY: Well, determining where he is, I mean, you know, maybe the FSP or the CIA know where he is. But for regular people, no., I mean, we -- now based on what Lukashenko was saying, he's in Russia somewhere. But now, why is he in Russia? That's the question because again, this was all supposed to be he go -- he doesn't get prosecuted, and he goes to Belarus. So there are various theories, and they're really only theories at this point. But remember, Prigozhin is or maybe was the head of a really giant, you'd have to call a corporation. And that corporation was not only the Wagner fighters, you know, this private military contractor. They were obviously in Ukraine, they're in Africa, they're in many different countries. And then also, he was running the troll factory. If you Remember that from 2016 interfering in the American election and then he had a media empire, a lot of it online.
 <br>[02:35:08]
 
So, this is -- this is really a major, major enterprise that was carrying out duties or jobs for the Russian government which the Russian government didn't want to have its fingerprints on publicly. It could have deniability. So, this -- that's valuable to Putin. And so, you have to say, OK, and he's the companies valuable. I didn't know about Prigozhin. That's another question. But you can't just unwind it overnight. So maybe that is why he's in Russia.
 
HARRAK: Now, in Russia, striking images have been broadcast by Russian state media of a raid of being launched at Prigozhin's lavish house in St. Petersburg. Gold bars, wigs, disturbing photos, but we also got to know the home of a decorated Russian. How do you -- how have those images -- do we know how those images have been received by the Russian public?
 
DOUGHERTY: Well, I'm sure with a lot of confusion, because have we, you know, just again, a few weeks ago, Prigogine was being praised, you know, praise by the government. He was recruiting all over Russia and then all of a sudden, he has a rebellion against the government. Specifically -- apparently, against the military. But how -- I would have to say that there has to be a purpose for that, right?
 
It's on state television, nothing gets on state television, unless the government wants it to be there. So why would it be there? Well, it's obviously soling the reputation of Prigozhin. And it's also, I would argue, it's undermining the message that he was giving to the Russian people, which is actually pretty effective, which is kind of the populist, anti-elite message. And what he was saying is those generals who are completely botching the war, he would argue, those generals are lining their pockets.
 
And they're misleading our president and President Putin. And they're in it for the money, et cetera. So, when all of a sudden on T.V. you see the riches of Prigozhin. You know, gold bars, millions of dollars in cash, and then there's bizarre things like wigs. It gets very strange and I have to tell you there actually are a lot of memes based on those disguises and passports. Fake passports for Prigozhin showing him in a variety of different guises. It's actually almost amusing, except this is pretty serious.
 
HARRAK: It's pretty serious. I just want to get a final thought from you, Jill, regarding the role that the Belarusian president is playing right now. Alexander Lukashenko.
 
DOUGHERTY: Yes. So, Alexander Lukashenko has been empowered for a very long time. He's essentially kind of an -- a Soviet-style politician. And he's always been very good at playing one side off against the other. So here you have him, apparently helping Putin by solving a rebellion. But he's -- he also has his own domestic considerations too. And a lot of Belarusians don't like the fact that he has done the bidding, let's say, of Vladimir Putin.
 
So, I think you have Lukashenko now maneuvering with his very strange inviting reporters to see a camp, supposedly where the fighters for Prigozhin were going to be coming. These Wagner fighters and saying, surprise, there are no fighters here. Why would he do that? So, I think he's -- whatever it is, he's maneuvering to get himself into the best position. But I don't really feel that this drama is over.
 
I mean, there's more obviously, that's going to happen. We're going to have to find out where Prigozhin is. We're going to have to find out what happens to him.
 
HARRAK: Jill Dougherty, thank you so much.
 
DOUGHERTY: Sure.
 
HARRAK: U.S. drone operations against ISIS in Syria have again been hampered by Russian fighter jets. The U.S. Air Force says it's the third day in a row that Russian pilots have interfered with the drones. And according to the U.S., Friday's encounters lasted almost two hours with Russian fighters making 18 close passes of three U.S. drones. Well, the pattern of harassment began early Wednesday when Russian jets hounded several U.S. drones, dropping flares and using other aggressive tactics.
 
Well, the French military says its war planes in the region have also become targets of Russian harassment.
 
Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich has now been locked up in Russia for more than 100 days on spying charges he strongly denies.
 <br>[02:40:03]
 
His family and employer mark the milestone by renewing calls for his immediate release. They say they're relying on the US government to bring him home.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELLA MILMAN, EVAN GERSHKOVICH'S MOTHER: I rely on President Biden's promise to do whatever it takes to bring Evan back. I rely on his team on their expertise.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: While the White House says the U.S. and Russia have discussed a potential prisoner swap, but so far, there has been little progress.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SULLIVAN: There have been discussions. But those discussions have not produced a clear pathway to a resolution. And so, I cannot stand here today and tell you that we have a clear answer to how we are going to get heaven home. All I can do is tell you that we have a clear commitment and conviction that we will do everything possible to bring him home.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: While the White House also says President Biden has no higher priority than securing the release of Gershkovich and other Americans detained abroad.
 
Still ahead. This week, the planet saw its four hottest days on record. It's the latest evidence that the earth is heating up much faster than expected. And another wake up call in the climate crisis.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: The planet's average daily temperature reached yet another record high on Thursday. Well, this marks the fourth day in a row of record global heat. Early data from U.S. meteorologists shows Thursday's temperature climbed to more than 17.2 degrees Celsius, or roughly 63 degrees Fahrenheit.
 
Well, experts say the extreme heat is an enormous wake up call for the climate crisis. A senior scientist at the Woodwell Climate Research Center says this is almost certainly the warmest the planet has been in at least 100,000 years. And it comes after last month saw the planet's hottest June by a substantial margin above the previous record.
 
Joining us now from London is Bob Ward. He is the policy and communications director for the Grantham Research Institute on climate change and environment at the London School of Economics. Bob, so good to have you with us. Four straight days of record highs is a grim milestone for the planet. What drives this?
 
BOB WARD, POLICY AND COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR, GRANTHAM RESEARCH INSTITUTE ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENT: So, we have two factors here. The first is that the earth is undoubtedly warming due to rising levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, most of which is being generated through our burning of fossil fuels. So that warming trend is unequivocal.
 <br>[02:45:04]
 
We also have natural climatic patterns and at the moment we've just entered El Nino conditions, which is an upwelling of warm waters in the southeast Pacific, but which then usually generate warmer temperatures around the world. And traditionally, July is the warmest month of the year around the world. Because the northern hemisphere is where most of the continents are, and the land surfaces heat up more than the waters of the oceans in the southern hemisphere cooled down.
 
So traditionally, July is the warmest year. And this is a warmest month, and this is likely to be the warmest month, perhaps since the end of the last ice age. HARRAK: So, if I understand you correctly, the climate crisis amplifies what would normally occur. And this is a global phenomenon. What are the effects that you're seeing around the world as a consequence of this heatwave?
 
WARD: Well, the measurements are being made are of the global average temperature. So taking the temperature all around the surface, but we are seeing extremes also becoming more intense and frequent. At the moment, there's a very severe marine heatwave going on in the North Atlantic, including around the coasts of Britain, temperatures are four to five degrees higher than normal.
 
It's having impacts on all sorts of marine life. We've seen all sorts of disruptions to fish stocks. And these are the kinds of things are happening all around the world. We will also see undoubtedly, over the next few weeks, a couple of months increase heat waves. Last year, there was an intense heat wave across Europe. In the U.K., temperatures incredibly got above 40 degrees Celsius for the first time and they have real impacts.
 
The heatwave conditions last summer in the U.K. killed almost 3000 people. So, these are very severe impacts.
 
HARRAK: Very severe impacts that you outline there. Now, as the planet continues to warm up, have we hit a point now of no return? How do we stay cool and protect our lives?
 
WARD: Well, we've all signed up, all the countries have signed up to efforts to try and keep the global temperature from going above 1-1/2 degrees above its preindustrial level. We are getting perilously close to that. And the scientists have already laid out a number of major impacts that that could happen, not just to increased heatwave period, we also get increased periods of heavy rainfall because a warmer atmosphere holds more waste moisture.
 
So, when it rains, it rains harder. It overwhelms our drainage and sewage systems, we get flooding, particularly in city areas, it can wipe out crops, threaten our food security. So, we have got to cut greenhouse gas emissions, absolutely no alternative. And we've got to do it urgently and get it down, essentially get our emissions down to zero by the middle of this century if we can.
 
HARRAK: Bob Ward, thank you so much for joining us.
 
WARD: Thank you.
 
HARRAK: Now for generations, it's been just as small spots on the Texas map but then Elon Musk came to town. And now his SpaceX company is changing the face of Brownsville in a big way and not everybody is happy about it.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:50:31]
 
HARRAK: Elon Musk's quest for space is dividing one South Texas community. People in Brownsville are at odds over what Musk and his SpaceX company are doing to their peaceful livelihoods. And they're caught in the shadow of an economic boom that's coming at a high cost for some.
 
Ed Lavandera has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It looks like the surface of the moon.
 
JUSTIN LECLAIRE, CONSERVATION BIOLOGIST, COASTAL BEND BAYS AND ESTUARIES PROGRAM: Yes, it looks other-worldly.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): Take a walk through the sand dunes surrounding the SpaceX launchpad tower in South Texas and the remnants of April's launch of the most powerful rocket ever built are still everywhere.
 
LAVANDERA: These pieces right here were part of the launchpad.
 
LECLAIRE: Yes.
 
LAVANDERA: Wow.
 
LECLAIRE: And this is only a quarter of a mile, maybe. Debris that size went three-quarters of a mile at least.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): After the launch, Justin LeClaire documented the aftermath. He is a biologist with the Coastal Bend Bays and Estuaries Program, a group that's tracking the environmental impact of SpaceX launches on the Boca Chica Peninsula. The area is now often referred to as Elon Musk's Starbase.
 
LECLAIRE: It is in the mid of a wildlife refuge in state park lands. And, you know, this area isn't really meant to be disturbed. That's kind of the point of the -- of protecting these areas, it's to protect them for the wildlife and public enjoyment as well.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): In April, thousands of people descended on South Texas to witness the thunderous launch of the SpaceX Starship rocket and heavy booster. The rocket's 33 engines disintegrated much of the concrete launchpad, and then a few minutes later the rocket blew up before reaching space.
 
LECLAIRE: Literally like a meteor.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): Debris from the launch left craters in the sand flats, smaller pieces peppered the landscape like a shotgun blast at close range. Tangled rebar was thrown nearly a mile away. Vegetation near the site was scorched. The area is a critical nesting ground for threatened and endangered wildlife.
 
LAVANDERA: What is your concern about what this place is going to look like?
 
LECLAIRE: Yes. Well, that's the question is, where does it stop, really? Another explosion, another explosion, another explosion, eventually, like, this is not a wildlife refuge anymore. It's not place for the public to go and, like, see natural beauty. It's for space testing and space travel and that's it.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): The April launch has resurfaced the tension between Elon Musk's SpaceX and critics here in South Texas. This graffiti appeared just a weak later. Several environmental groups are suing the Federal Aviation Administration to take stricter oversight of the private space company's launch plans. SpaceX did not respond to CNN's request for comment.
 
LAVANDERA: It's not clear when SpaceX will launch again. Elon Musk says, he'd like to try by the end of July or early August, but the Federal Aviation Administration tells CNN that it will not speculate on a timeline to approve future flights. The FAA says that SpaceX has yet to complete its final mishap investigation and that the company still needs to identify and implement corrective actions to ensure public safety.
 
BARTON BICKERTON, OWNER, HOPPER HAUS: A lot of it is space themed.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): Barton Bickerton opened Hopper Haus Bar &amp; Grill almost two years ago. It's become a popular spot for SpaceX employees, locals and space tourists. Business has been booming.
 
BICKERTON: We had a lot of regulars who would come in every day and really supportive of it. And now are kind of, you know, again they were just kind of shocked by it.
 
LAVANDERA: So, like, more nervous about what the impact and all that might be?
 
BICKERTON: Yes, yes.
 
LAVANDERA: There's no turning back now from this now, right?
 
BICKERTON: There's no way that they're not going to keep launching from here. These guys will figure it out. You know, they'll figure out what they need to do.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): The SpaceX boom has also triggered a real estate boom.
 
LAVANDERA: This is old Brownsville?
 
JOSETTE HINOJOSA, BROWNSVILLE RESIDENT: This is old Brownsville. And you --
 
LAVANDERA: And you grew up a few blocks?
 
HINOJOSA: I grew up two blocks down that way on levy. So, yes, I -- it's home.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): Josette Hinojosa isn't sure how much longer she can afford to live here. She says her rent jumped from $650 a month to $1,000 in just two years. Hinojosa says many families are selling their homes because they can't afford the taxes anymore.
 
HINOJOSA: That is my fear for my neighbors that they will be shut out. They will be pushed out of the neighborhood and the place that we know as home.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): Brownsville is in one of the poorest counties in the state, but the median home price has more than doubled since SpaceX broke ground here in 2014. Far outpacing the statewide price increase.
 <br>[02:55:12]
 
HINOJOSA: It's like this polarizing issue within our city because you have people who work for them and then you've got people like me who are, like, you guys aren't looking at the bigger picture.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): SpaceX has the full throttle support of local political leaders who see SpaceX as a major economic driver that will fundamentally change the future of the Rio Grande Valley.
 
The company is expanding its footprint on the South Texas Coast and Elon Musk has committed millions to the community.
 
EDDIE TREVINO, JR. CAMERON COUNTY JUDGE: We're inventing the wheel with the largest potential spaceship that's ever been launched or developed.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): Cameron County Judge Eddie Trevino says, it's like the early days of NASA when the space agency developed Cape Canaveral, Florida.
 
TREVINO, JR.: I guarantee you, any other community in the country would love to have SpaceX launching in their backyard because of what it would means from an economic development standpoint, from an educational standpoint, from a tourism standpoint.
 
LAVANDERA (voiceover): Ed Lavandera, CNN, Brownsville, Texas.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: That has been a great deal of speculation and concern lately about the dangers artificial intelligence could pose to the world. But a United Nations Summit held this week in Geneva aimed to prove otherwise. The A.I. for good Global Summit brings together more than 3000 leading tech executives, academics and international organizations to explore the benefits of artificial intelligence.
 
Organizers say robots can help solve some of the world's biggest problems, including disease and hunger. And in the world's first human robot press conference, the robots themselves offered their view on the future.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When do you expect your big moment to be? Do you think you will hit the mainstream soon and there will be lots of you on the planet soon?
 
ROBOT: I think my great moment will be when people realize. that robots like me. can be used to help improve our lives. and make the world a better place. I believe it's only a matter of time before we see thousands of robots just like me out there making a difference.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: And coming up in the hours ahead. We'll hear from one of the creators of the robot at the A.I. for Good Summit.
 
I'm Laila Harrak. Do stick around. I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:00:00]