Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Death Toll Exceeds 36,000 as Rescue Efforts Intensify; U.S. Military Shoots Down Fourth High-Altitude Object; U.S. Futures Mostly Higher after Worst Week for S&P this Year; 13-Year-Old boy Rescued Alive; World Central Kitchen on the Ground in Turkey; Rihanna Soars in High-Flying Halftime Show Performance. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired February 13, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:00:00]
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN HOST: A warm welcome to "First Move", I'm Rahel Solomon in today for Julia Chatterley. And just ahead on the program, miraculous 
 
 rescues amid the unspeakable pain. We will take you live to Southern Turkey. Research efforts are ongoing after last week's devastating 
 
 earthquake.
 
More than 36,000 people now confirmed dead, with Turkish Authorities arresting dozens of property developers accused of negligence plus, mystery 
 
 in the skies U.S. fighter jet shooting down three unidentified objects and North American airspace in just three days.
 
Latest incident happening Sunday over Northern Michigan officials being pressured to reveal more we are live in Washington with the latest. And 
 
 NATO Secretary General warning that Russia has long feared military escalation in Ukraine has already begun. The Ukrainian leaders warning of 
 
 massive Russian attacks ahead Moscow claiming frontline gains as well.
 
All that and much more but first hope amid the rubble in Southern Turkey rescue efforts are intensifying. One week after that devastating earthquake 
 
 that has now claimed the lives of over 36,000 people. And the 178th hour of the rescue, a 25-year-old woman is recovered alive.
 
That's what we're looking at here. It's one of the latest in a just a series of incredible stories of survival. Also a baby rescued after 108 
 
 hours this made me here. Official say he's resting and he appears to be in good health, at least based on that smile on his face. And the stories of 
 
 hope calm as anger grows over the government and President Erdogan's handling of the crisis.
 
Turkish Authorities have ordered the arrest of a number of property developers accused of negligence that's after tens of thousands of 
 
 buildings collapsed. Turkish Police also dealing with online threats in the wake of the tragedy. They have arrested 14 people accused of posting fake 
 
 information and that spreading panic.
 
Police have also shut down sites demanding money from citizens or posing as charities. Jomana Karadsheh joins me now from Turkey. Jomana, of course, 
 
 you have been on the front lines there since the very beginning. What's the latest there?
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Rahel, we just got back from Syria, we got a firsthand look at the impact of the earthquake on 
 
 Northwestern Syria, that last rebel stronghold where you have. More than 4 million people who have already been living through humanitarian crisis 
 
 after humanitarian crisis and real dire conditions.
 
And now on top of that, you have the earthquake. And I can tell you, we visited a number of cities in Idlib province. And what we saw there is 
 
 people digging through the rubble with their bare hands, using anything they could find, to try and get through the piles of rubble to try and find 
 
 their loved ones.
 
They're not looking for any survivors anymore. They've given up right now they're trying to locate their loved ones to give them a proper burial. It 
 
 was a real heartbreaking scene, just seeing young people, all people all just digging with their hands trying to find them.
 
One man we spoke to Rahel had lost 21 members of his family, including children. And he said that to us completely, no expressions on his face 
 
 completely numb. And it really shows you how people in that part of Syria feel right now. Every single person we spoke to says they feel that they 
 
 are yet again, being abandoned and have been abandoned by the international community left to deal with this crisis on their own.
 
I mean, the Syrian people for years, you know, I've covered this conflict for more than 12 years and the Syrian people very much a long time ago in 
 
 these rebel-held areas gave up on the international community coming to the rescue and helping them. They did appeal for help, cried for help 
 
 throughout that conflict when they were being bombed when chemical weapons were being used, and they say nothing.
 
The international community did nothing but they thought this would be different that this is a natural disaster. So in the early hours after the 
 
 earthquake, you had doctors, rescue workers from the White Helmets, the Civil Defense, they're all urging the international community to provide 
 
 them with the support they need to deal with the aftermath of the earthquake and helped it in a riot, Rahel.
 
And we saw the impact that has had; we visited a hospital in Idlib province. Doctors there told us that they could have saved many more lives 
 
 if they had the medical supplies they needed, if they had the equipment they needed.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
KARADSHEH: And these are doctors who have seen all kinds of injuries and cases of trauma that have come through their doors over the years of this 
 
 war. But they say this was different, you had a large number of people coming in at once, something they've never dealt with. And these are 
 
 hospitals that are on the verge of collapse.
 
The whole house infrastructure in the country, after years of bombardment, by the Russians, and the Syrian regime has really left them, ill-equipped 
 
 to deal with something like this. And in addition to that, you've had aid that has been slow to come in. And then you've had the complexities of aid 
 
 coming through the Turkish border after the airstrikes.
 
So you had hospitals, and then you have the White Helmets. Those are, you know, the teams that are known for their heroic rescues during the Syrian 
 
 war, they would dig people out of the rubble of bomb buildings. But when it came to this, they urged the world to send them the equipment, they needed 
 
 to try and search for survivors to try and get people out.
 
They needed machinery, they needed just about everything that we see, for example, here in Turkey that is being used to try and get survivors out and 
 
 they didn't get that. And this is again, saying that they feel completely abandoned, completely left alone and forgotten. And now aid is starting to 
 
 get into Syria.
 
Over the past few days, you've had U.N. aid convoys going in, but people there would tell you this is too little, too late. And, you know, we've 
 
 heard from the Senior U.N. Official who was at the border with that convoy went across saying that it is understandable and they agree that the Syrian 
 
 people feel like they had been abandoned that the international community has so far failed Syrians.
 
And now is the time to act to try and fix this and try and get them the aid they need. But people there told us that it's too late, they have lost the 
 
 people that could have saved if that aid had come earlier, Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: Jomana, you just you know, you took the words right out of my mouth. I was thinking it is understandable that people there would be 
 
 wondering, and you know, we heard these comments over the weekend from people in Syria saying, why is no one coming to help us and so that 
 
 frustration?
 
And that feeling just a true disappointment and devastation is certainly understandable. Karadsheh thank you. And the next hour on "Connect the 
 
 World" will also see your special report on how people are coping in Syria. So for all of our viewers around the world, be sure to tune into that in 
 
 the next hour.
 
And as you have heard, the long running civil war has been complicating relief efforts in Syria. The World Health Organization is currently waiting 
 
 for final approval to send aid deliveries into Northwest Syria. Top WHO Officials are in Aleppo with humanitarian aid, but they're unable to bring 
 
 that aid to rebel-held areas, at least not yet.
 
The U.N. has been able to get trucks full of supplies into Northwest Syria. However, they are asking for more border crossings to be opened so that 
 
 more aid can be sent to the rebel-held areas faster. Nada Bashir joins me now. So Nada, as Jomana pointed out very well, there is a very complex 
 
 series of issues for Syria. Walk me through the relief efforts in Syria, as far as you know.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well look Rahel; we are standing in a huge distribution center, an aid distribution center here in Istanbul. And the 
 
 vast majority of that aid is heading to Southeast Turkey. And the aid response the humanitarian response here in Turkey has been far more robust 
 
 than the aid that we've seen going in to Northwest Syria.
 
And of course, we saw those logistical challenges in the first few days in the aftermath of the earthquake, that one single crossing the rebel-held, 
 
 border crossing us by the United Nations, many aid trucks are unable to get there simply because the roads leading up to that crossing were too damaged 
 
 after the earthquake.
 
Now, of course, that's a real focus on that cross line aid, not the cross border aid getting that humanitarian assistance from Damascus, which is in 
 
 the government controlled territory up north into that rebel-held territory. And we have seen over the last week, aid being distributed to 
 
 Damascus and flights to straight to the Capitol there.
 
There have been commitments, pledges from President Bashar al-Assad's government, they've said that they will allow that aid pass through but the 
 
 message that we're hearing create simply hasn't translated to aid getting through it in practical terms. They haven't been given a timeline; they 
 
 haven't been given specific routes.
 
We are simply not seeing that aid reaching the people most in need in those rebel-held territories. Of course, as you had that in Jomana's reporting. 
 
 This is a population that was already hugely dependent on humanitarian assistance, a region completely decimated by years of war at the hands of 
 
 President Bashar al-Assad.
 
These are people truly, deeply in need of that assistance. And of course, there has been a huge international response. We've seen aid being flown in 
 
 from across the globe, but the vast majority has been centered on the response in Turkey. However, we are now seeing as eight trucks getting into 
 
 Northwest Syria.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
BASHIR: At least 58 U.N. trucks now reaching at Northwestern, but that is a small fraction of the amount of aid that we've seen focused here in 
 
 Southeast Turkey. Now, talking about Turkey, it has to be said this is an incredible response. We have seen people working around the clock for the 
 
 last week at a distribution centers like this one, to provide that vital humanitarian.
 
Since thousands of people in Turkey, left homeless, following that earthquake, many more still desperately in need and of course, over the 
 
 weekend, we did see those remarkable, miraculous rescues of survivors still, beneath the rubble. Even today, in the early hours of the morning, 
 
 we are still seeing survivors being pulled out of the rubbles that had given many in Turkey a sense of hope, and they could still find survivors.
 
But as this begins to shift from a rescue effort to more of a recovery effort that is the sad reality that people here in Turkey are facing us as 
 
 our people in Northwest Syria. But the real focus now is now shifting towards how they can help those who have survived? They've been left 
 
 homeless left and a huge amount of vulnerability and it is eight centers like this one, you can see how busy it is.
 
And I've seen the last hour we've seen two trucks now, leaving the center filled with humanitarian systems with aid with blankets, electrical 
 
 heaters, food, and all the essential items that someone made homeless might need and respond to this center.
 
It's quite incredible to see the trucks beeping very loudly the crowd here the volunteers cheering, clapping as another truck full of aid leaves the 
 
 building and this is going to continue happening. But the message that we've heard from one of the coordinators here is that they simply need 
 
 more. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ENIF YAVUZ DIPSAR, HEAD OF SOCIAL SERVICES AT ISTANBUL MUNICIPALITY: So it will never be enough people are starving over there people are they need 
 
 heaters, they need blankets, and still they need pens. So it's really not enough. We sent more than 200 trucks. Three planes in two shifts but --.
 
BASHIR: Do you need more?
 
DIPSAR: Yes, we need more.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR: And has to be said there has also been a sense of backlash growing in Turkey in Istanbul. We have heard questions as to whether the government 
 
 had done enough to prepare for a catastrophe of this scale. And of course, there are questions about whether or not the aid was enough have managed to 
 
 reach those who need it quick enough.
 
We have seen those international rescue teams of course coming in to provide support. But there has been some criticism of the Turkish 
 
 Government. The Government itself in response says it is carrying out an investigation into negligence within the construction industry.
 
More than 100 people already identified according to the justice ministry as potential suspects and a number of people already arrested. Some even 
 
 arrested overseas or even one man arrested at Istanbul International Airport while attempting to flee overseas so there has been a real 
 
 crackdown by the government whether this is going to be seen as enough by the - population remains to be seen, Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: Nada Bashir, thank you. Back here in the U.S., the U.S. Military shooting down another high altitude object and F-16 fighter jet took down 
 
 an unidentified flying object over Michigan's Lake Huron on Sunday. It is the fourth object shut down in North America, starting with a suspected 
 
 Chinese spy balloon on February 4.
 
Natasha Bertrand is live in Washington with the latest Natasha, yet another one of these objects, what is the U.S. military saying? I mean, what's the 
 
 response here?
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yes, Rahel, so what we have learned is that the reason why or at least a large reason why? So many 
 
 of these objects have been detected in U.S. airspace over the last several days is because NORAD, which is the entity responsible for overseeing 
 
 American airspace, has essentially broadened its filters out and broaden that aperture of objects that it can see through its radar.
 
And that's because there was a political uproar in the last week over that Chinese spy balloon that transmitted the U.S. and so NORAD essentially 
 
 said, we need to figure out a way to spot these things sooner. So what they've done is they have changed those filters to make it easier to spot 
 
 objects traveling at a certain speed, at a certain altitude, slower moving objects, for example.
 
And now they're picking up all of these objects in U.S. airspace, but the question is, what are these objects? And why is the U.S. Military feeling 
 
 as though it is necessary to shoot every one of them down? That is the question that was posed last night to the Pentagon by a number of reporters 
 
 saying, is this, the new normal every time we see one of these unidentified objects in U.S. airspace?
 
Are we going to be shooting a missile at it and bringing it down? Now the Pentagon says that it was necessary to take these down even though they are 
 
 on identified and it is unclear whether they even had any kind of real surveillance capabilities because they were traveling at an altitude that 
 
 is essentially a threat or could pose a threat to civilian aircraft and so they felt it was necessary to bring them down for that reason.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
BERTRAND: But ultimately, you know, the administration is going to face a lot of questions here about what is actually known about the origin of 
 
 these objects? What they are capable of and whether it is reasonable and appropriate to expect? That every one of these objects that we see are 
 
 going to be shot down as they come into contact, of course, with the Defense Department's radar, Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: And then questions, I suppose about how often are we the public going to know what exactly that is? What exactly the object is as pressure 
 
 grows, for Biden to respond to these Natasha Bertrand, thank you? Meanwhile, Beijing strongly criticizing Washington claiming that the U.S. 
 
 illegally flew high altitude balloons into its airspace.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WANG WENBIN, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON: It is also common for U.S. balloons to illegally enter the airspace of other countries. Since 
 
 last year alone, U.S. high altitude balloons have illegally flown over Chinese airspace more than 10 times without any approval from relevant 
 
 Chinese Authorities. The first thing for the U.S. to do is to introspect itself and change its course instead of slandering China and inciting 
 
 confrontation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: Ivan Watson is live in Hong Kong with more. So Ivan, China fighting back with strong accusations of it saying not only has the U.S. 
 
 done this itself, but he's done it 10 times.
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I mean, the accusations between Beijing and Washington over alleged spy balloon 
 
 programs are flying faster than the balloons themselves right now. You just heard from the Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson claiming that U.S. 
 
 balloons, spy balloons have been flying in Chinese airspace.
 
Well, the National Security Council Spokesperson woman in Washington has gotten on Twitter and already denied that accusing instead China of running 
 
 a high altitude surveillance balloon program that she accuses China of using to violate U.S. airspace as well as the airspace of at least 40 other 
 
 countries across five continents.
 
Beijing has also pointed out that the U.S. flies, reconnaissance planes and sends warships near Chinese sovereign territory in the South China Sea 
 
 alone saying that there were at least 64 of these kinds of operations in January alone. All of this kind of underscores the fact that the tensions 
 
 are mounting between these two capitals.
 
You've just heard about three unidentified objects being shot down by U.S. jets over North America Friday, Saturday and Sunday of last weekend. Well 
 
 on Sunday, a Chinese state news outlet said that there was an unidentified object flying in the air off the coast of Shandong province, and quoted 
 
 Chinese officials saying they were preparing to shoot it down.
 
And urging the public to take pictures of the debris collected debris as possible evidence that has set the Chinese internet which is highly 
 
 censored on fire with lots of speculation. As of Monday today, we haven't gotten any updates from Chinese Officials about what they suspect this 
 
 object to be, where they think it's from, and at what altitude it is operating. So we're going to keep watching that, Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: A lot of questions and it certainly felt like at a time when many hoped that there would be a thawing of relations between the two nations 
 
 that this could potentially be a reset. Ivan, before I let you go the Philippines also entering the mix now saying that the Coast Guard is a 
 
 Chinese ship rather aimed a laser at one of its vessels a military great laser. What more do we know about this?
 
WATSON: Right, this isn't new, the Chinese and Philippines coast guards have been jockeying in contested waters of the South China Sea for years. 
 
 What the Philippines Coast Guard is saying is that on February 6, it had a resupply ship going to some marines that are stationed on a contested reef 
 
 in the Spratly Islands to resupply them and that their crew some of it was temporarily blinded by what they described as a military grade laser from a 
 
 Chinese Coast Guard vessel, and that ship also came dangerously close to the Philippines Coast Guard vessel.
 
In response, the Chinese Foreign Ministry has accused the Philippines Coast Guard of a trespassing into the waters without permission of China. Of 
 
 course, China claims virtually all of the South China Sea for itself, despite the fact that the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia, Taiwan.
 
They all have their own contested claims for parts of this territory and this just gets back to a bigger problem or a bigger challenge is that 
 
 smaller countries in the region they feel and they fear that China is encroaching on their own maritime areas this is not new, it's not going 
 
 away, Rahel.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
SOLOMON: Seems that way Ivan Watson, thank you. And to Ukraine now where at least 4 civilians have been killed in the attacks on the region of Kherson. 
 
 It comes as China's top Diplomat is set to visit Russia ahead of the one- year anniversary of the war. David McKenzie is in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv.
 
David, there's been so much attention on this expected spring offensive and new comments, say from the NATO Secretary General saying it appears that it 
 
 may have already started. What more can you tell us about fighting along these Eastern front lines?
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Rahel, you can't set your clock to these kinds of things. And it has become a bit of 
 
 an academic exercise. But what is hugely important is the fact that the Russian Military, the units there in the Far East, particularly around on 
 
 the Eastern front have been throwing a lot at the Ukrainians and at this point, at least in one zone around Vuhledar, they have been pushing them 
 
 back.
 
And the Russians, according to those sympathetic to the Russians, according to the U.K., Defense Intelligence and to the Ukrainians. They are taking 
 
 heavy losses there. The NATO Secretary General was asked the question whether this offensive had begun, here's his answer.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: We are seeing the start already because we seeing what Russia does now? President Putin do now? Is to send 
 
 in thousands of thousands or more troops, accepting a very high rate of casualty taking a big loss, but putting pressure on the Ukrainians.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKENZIE: If you look at this video that we have obtained, you see the heavy losses in real time happening to Russian forces pushing through the 
 
 heavily defended zones of Vuhledar and getting obliterated, frankly, by indirect fire from artillery, or by drones, also going through it appears 
 
 heavily mined areas that the Ukrainians have paste them.
 
And it seems like Putin and his generals are just willing to throw Russian soldiers at these defenses. And they haven't in at least that region made 
 
 much ground at all, despite those heavy losses to the north of that zone in Bakhmut. In the villages around that heavily contested-area the Russians do 
 
 appear to be having more success through the conventional forces and private military contractors, according to them.
 
The big question now other than whether Ukraine can withstand these assaults in the east, Rahel, is whether they can actually get what they 
 
 need? You've had Ukrainian Commanders telling us that they are at times running short of artillery shells, in particular, the NATO Secretary 
 
 General dealt with that specific issue, saying that there's a long lag time between making those requests and actually producing new artillery for the 
 
 Ukrainians.
 
And that will be, I think, a very important part of the discussions between Defense Ministers of NATO region over the next day or two, to try and 
 
 figure out how to maintain the support for Ukraine. There's been a lot of talk about sophisticated weapons systems like tanks, and like fighter jets, 
 
 but they need the basic artillery, particularly that its old Soviet era artillery shells to continue their fight, Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: Good point, David McKenzie live for us there in Kyiv, thank you. We'll have more "First Move", after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back to "First Move", the baby bump reveal for Rihanna at the Super Bowl halftime show on Sunday. Wall Street bulls hoping for a bit 
 
 of a stock market bump today as well. At least right now all the futures are up. U.S. stocks currently on track for mostly higher open.
 
That's after the first down week for the S&amp;P 500 This year, lots of concern that stocks rose too far too fast in January, especially with those ongoing 
 
 uncertainties over borrowing costs. Fed Officials now warning that interest rates may have to head higher than expected if inflation doesn't cool fast 
 
 enough.
 
Tuesday's read on U.S. consumer prices will be a critical data point for the Fed, especially after revised numbers out late Friday. They show 
 
 inflation coming in a bit hotter than expected the past few months. Joining me now Mohamed El-Erian, he is an Advisor at Allianz/Grammmercy and the 
 
 President of Queens College at Cambridge University. Sir, good to have you on the program today!
 
MOHAMED EL-ERIAN, ADVISOR AT ALLIANZ/GRAMMERCY: Thanks for having me.
 
SOLOMON: I want to start with this new recession projections Eurozone saying that the Eurozone and EU should narrowly avoid a recession this 
 
 year. The IMF saying today that the U.S. should avoid a recession as well where do you stand on this in terms of 2023, because at least from my 
 
 perspective, Team soft landing seems to be growing?
 
EL-ERIAN: So team soft landing certainly had a good few months. I've never thought a recession in the U.S. was inevitable. The big news is the rest of 
 
 the recession in Europe may be avoided. And that is because Europe has dealt much better with the gas supply issue and has had a bit of good luck 
 
 on weather.
 
SOLOMON: Yes, that has been good. In terms of the U.S. when we hear about a recession. It seems to be followed by two words short and shallow. Do you 
 
 buy that? I know you don't believe that a recession is inevitable. But if in fact we do, do you believe the short and shallow argument?
 
EL-ERIAN: No, I think the short and shallow is the same trap as transitory inflation was? That we hear something uncomfortable and then we try to 
 
 reframe it into something comfortable. So when we heard in 2021, that we were having high inflation. The Fed came out and said don't worry, it is 
 
 transitory meaning it's short lived, and it will be reversed.
 
We hear the same thing about recession. If we fall into a recession, I want to stress it's a capital I and a capital S. If we fall into recession, it 
 
 may not be short and shallow. So we have to be very opening minded and not repeat the mistake of transitory inflation.
 
SOLOMON: The path of inflation, what does it look like to you, Mohamed? Because last week, when we heard from Chair Powell, he said that 2023, if I 
 
 remember correctly, will be the year of significant declines in inflation, but it won't be until 2024 that we get back to their target of 2 percent. 
 
 What is the path ahead look like to you?
 
EL-ERIAN: So, Chair Powell basically used the word disinflation 11 times. And this inflation is this notion that the rate of increase of prices not 
 
 only comes down, but certain prices actually fall, which is what's happening. So that is the scenario for the Fed that we're going to have a 
 
 very orderly reduction in inflation.
 
I suspect we're more likely to see sticky inflation about 4 percent. I must also add there are certain people who think we see a U shaped inflation 
 
 that inflation gets on a higher trajectory towards the end of the year. But I think the most likely outcome, in my opinion, is sticky inflation around 
 
 4 percent.
 
SOLOMON: And what's striving that sticky inflation? Is that the services inflation and the really strong labor market as a shelter inflation, what 
 
 do you see being the biggest contributors to that?
 
EL-ERIAN: So right now we have service inflation high and goods inflation coming down. There's a limit to how far down goods inflation can go.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
EL-ERIAN: So if you like we lose the brakes of goods inflation and we continue with the accelerator of service inflation. And that's why certain 
 
 people, including myself, worry about this notion of sticky inflation.
 
SOLOMON: Mohamed, you know, you sort of rose to worldwide prominence, I think, those of the economy in the financial news, we all know your name, 
 
 but sort of after this last year, everyone knows your name because of your transitory call, or your call, they wouldn't be transitory. What's the 
 
 hardest part of moving forward, making sense of this economy?
 
EL-ERIAN: It is like Larry Sommers said a very difficult economy to read. So the hardest part, believe it or not, is cognitive is the ability to keep 
 
 your mindset open, and look at multiple scenarios because that's what we are facing. This is a very, very uncertain, not just uncertain, but 
 
 unusually uncertain, because we also have longer term issues.
 
We have the energy transition. We have geopolitics. We have the rewiring of supply chains, and we have the functioning of the labor market. So to so 
 
 many moving pieces, that the most challenging thing for economists and for policymakers is to keep your mind wide open and look at multiple scenarios 
 
 and that's not easy.
 
SOLOMON: I know what that is. Mohamed El-Erian thanks for being on the program today. Thank you.
 
EL-ERIAN: Thanks for having me.
 
SOLOMON: We have more "First Move" after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back! And just into "First Move", one week after that devastating earthquake hit Turkey and Syria. I want to show you these 
 
 pictures. This is a 13-year-old boy his name is Khan as I understand it. He has been rescued alive.
 
This is happening in the region of --. This happened just moments ago our team here at CNN was able to turn this video around for you for the sea of 
 
 rescue workers there you can see him on a stretcher and getting him into an ambulance.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
SOLOMON: If you can hear there that's people cheering in the background. More than 36,000 people have died in the quake. But this young man, a 13-
 
 year-old boy named Khan has incredibly and miraculously been rescued alive.
 
Sara Sidner joins me now. Sara, incredibly eight days into this we are still hearing those stories, but they are unfortunately few and far 
 
 between. Tell me a bit about where you are and what you're seeing?
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rahel now I'm in Adiyaman this was an area that aid was very slow to get to. It is here now. And there are people from 
 
 all over the world, everyone from China to Americans to Italians, to the Czech Republic, but they're dealing with a hells cape to be honest.
 
It is building after building after building; some of them that are still standing are damaged beyond repair. And a lot of them are crushed like 
 
 pancakes on top of each other. And what we've been watching today are dogs coming over which indicates that they either think that there are bodies 
 
 inside or that there are signs of life.
 
They've been pulling out all sorts of things really the stuff of life. They've been pulling out clothes. They've been pulling up books. They've 
 
 been pulling up different things, pots and pans and you can sort of see them strewn about.
 
But what is most difficult to see is yes, this destruction but more so the families that are sitting all around the perimeter where they can to watch 
 
 this happen because their loved ones are inside. And they are hoping beyond hope. Firstly that they are potentially alive after these eight days, or 
 
 that they finally get some closure and see the body of their loved ones so that they can bury their loved one properly.
 
We have been watching that in city after city. Pretty much the moment that we landed we were approached by a woman who was telling us her story of 
 
 grief that her husband has still not been found.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SIDNER (voice over): 38-year-old Kudret Kocebeler (ph) desperately pleads with volunteer rescuers to search for her husband Badir (ph). He's buried 
 
 she says in their corner apartment which is somewhere under this rubble. They tried to console her but this mother of twins wants action not words.
 
There is nobody out there. It's been six days I'm waiting here with my twin standing in the cold. She says she's been asking anyone who will listen to 
 
 dig her husband out but for six days she says officials kept telling her they needed permission from the government to stir on her building.
 
I want my husband back even if he's not alive. She may have accepted his death but can't go on without seeing her husband's body removed from this 
 
 hells cape. My life, my blood, my everything, my best friend in life he left me with my twins here alone
 
SIDNER (on camera): While she waits for the realities of her husband's death here in this area where you see enormous piles of rubble. These are 
 
 different buildings, but you can't really distinguish them because there's just so much destruction. There have been signs of life. A child was found 
 
 here alive after a week in the rubble.
 
SIDNER (voice over): Nurses comfort the girl who they think is three or four years old. She's dehydrated and in shock but alive. This is the moment 
 
 she was rescued her exhausted little body pulled from under the seemingly endless mountains of rubble in Hatay.
 
She was rushed to the makeshift hospital setup in the parking lot of the actual hospital that was evacuated after the earthquake. When she first 
 
 arrived as a mother I felt that she was like my own daughter this nurse says.
 
She is cracking up this - she talked when we walked in the toddler had managed to make the nurses laugh, relieved. She could talk a bit.
 
SIDNER (on camera): What is it that she said that made you all laugh she made all the nurses laugh?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I met mama.
 
SIDNER (voice over): The word that made all the nurses laugh was mama and I'm hungry. I want to eat something.
 
SIDNER (on camera): What did that do to your heart when she said mama?
 
SIDNER (voice over): I felt a great pulse in my heart she says. No one knew her name. And when they asked she said dada. It turns out this toddler does 
 
 not speak Turkish. She speaks Arabic rescuers later tell us she's serious.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
SIDNER: And she has been taken to a hospital we understand she is doing OK. We are now watching in another city not in Haiti where she is but in 
 
 Adiyaman. We are watching someone go into a small pocket that is clearly cleared of rubble.
 
It is not smashed to the ground. You see the gentleman there in the blue jacket. He's been trying to dig in there to see if there is anyone that may 
 
 have survived in that pocket there that has not been completely smashed.
 
But if you follow me and Byron has taken the pictures here, Rahel. If you follow me out and see the scene here, these were two buildings. And I know 
 
 they're indistinguishable at this point because they have literally been pulverized from the weight of their collapse.
 
But if you look to the right, just to the right of me, you will see people across the street. Those are families waiting for their loved ones in this 
 
 bitter cold, hoping to find any sign of life or even at this point of potential death so that they can bury their loved ones, Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: Clinging to hope and clinging to closure. Sara Sidner, thank you for being there. And thank you for your reporting. It is Sara Sidner. And 
 
 joining me now is Jose Andres, James Beard Award Winning Chef and Founder of World Central Kitchen.
 
His team is on the ground right now in Turkey. Jose, I know your team mobilizes very quickly when these natural disasters happen. Help me 
 
 understand what you're seeing and what your team is experiencing there on the ground?
 
JOSE ANDRES, FOUNDER, WORLD CENTRAL KITCHEN: Well, let me tell you, we landed here 12 hours after the earthquake. And I was in 2010 in Port-au-
 
 Prince in Haiti. And I arrived there only few weeks later. That was the beginning of World Central Kitchen and especially in earthquakes.
 
What I saw Port-au-Prince was destruction was thousands and thousands of people that many, many buildings destroyed. But this is like 20 Port-au-
 
 Prince. This is like 20 earthquakes. This is the magnitude of what the Turkish people are going through.
 
This is like 400 to 450 kilometers long earthquake. And they didn't only have one, they had two. And many of the buildings that collapsed also, they 
 
 didn't collapse on the two earthquakes, but they collapsed on their aftershocks.
 
So what we're seeing is obviously one of the biggest events we had in the last century. And overall, with all these destructions of these deaths, I 
 
 want to really say that the Turkish government we the different emergency organizations, they have an all the help that has come from around the 
 
 world.
 
They are doing actually the best they can to cover the suffering of everybody without homes or people with homes. But that right now, this is - 
 
 to understand why they are way afraid to go into a building even into areas that they've not been so affected by the earthquake.
 
SOLOMON: Absolutely, because we've talked to people who say that their home is still standing, but there are cracks in the wall. And so they're afraid 
 
 to go back in because it hasn't been deemed safe.
 
Jose help me understand for the folks that you're serving, how many of these people have actually lost their homes versus people who just have no 
 
 home to go back to or are afraid to go into their homes rather?
 
ANDRES: Well, it's all of the above. I mean, we are already able to go in the last day is very much all around the different areas hit by the 
 
 earthquake, and everything, use the story of repeats town after town after town.
 
Obviously, they are trying to do as many here next to one of these camps where people are staying. They are building them as quick as they can. But 
 
 we need to understand that these tens of thousands and thousands of families that they are going to have to be moving into those stands and 
 
 then is everything not too far away a USBC hospital that came from the Spanish government.
 
I feel that in these events, they always go to help with - and the hospital this morning as soon as they opened they had 300 people and these without 
 
 anybody knowing that the hospital was already open.
 
So from the health care issues from food from blankets, I've been in the mountains a night the temperature for everybody to understand is being 
 
 under ten under 20 Celsius degrees. This is why right now everybody doing food, especially at night.
 
You try to make sure that you don't only do food to cover those needs, but that the food is hot like soups and where people with that suit. They don't 
 
 only fill up their needs, their physical needs, but these are moments that their hands can be warming up in these very cold nights of northern part 
 
 Turkey.
 
SOLOMON: And Jose I mean we saw some shots there and as you're just mentioned soup help us explain a bit more for our viewers all that you are 
 
 offering to these people in addition to the soup? We saw some of the pictures there look like rice, what else are you offering?
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
ANDRES: Well, here are a lot of people in the early days in the early hours; I will say a night in front of heavy building, especially the 
 
 buildings destroyed. You will see a big fire and around that big fire will be the families, the families waiting, hopefully, for finding their loved 
 
 ones alive.
 
And then you will see in the early hours of these response people, normal people restaurants or hotels that they will come up sometimes so as far 
 
 away as Istanbul use in their car with a big pot of soup Shorba (ph) as they call it here.
 
Different soups like for Hana soup, the soup of beans for soya leaves, and soup is been what has been winning this cold days. So at World Central 
 
 Kitchen, we are only one of the many other people and organizations doing the best we can to cover those food needs.
 
So we are serving things that are local, why? Because when we arrived, we identify the restaurants that were open, that they were safe that they 
 
 could cook. And what things we began serving in the early days Kebabs. I mean, we landed in Adala is almost the Capital of Kebab. Kebabs is some of 
 
 the items we began serving.
 
When in emergencies, you show up some of the best response always happens normally with local people and local restaurants and local chefs, but 
 
 happens with local food. This is very much the types of food we've been trying to do here in Turkey.
 
SOLOMON: You know, Jose, we spoke to an aid worker last week who said that he had previously been the person giving out meals. And he said for the 
 
 first time in his life, he was the recipient of warm meals and so I thank you for what you're doing there. And I thank you for being on the program 
 
 today.
 
ANDRES: Thank you for having me.
 
SOLOMON: That is Chef Jose Andres. And we'll have more "First Move" after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back to "First Move"! The curtain going up on a key week for Wall Street U.S. stocks coming off their worst week since mid-December 
 
 although you can see stocks are up right now. One reason though for last week's performance was lackluster profits.
 
Some two thirds of S&amp;P 500 firms have reported earnings so far this profit season. Credit Suisse says that we are on track for the first drop in 
 
 overall earnings in two years. We'll get important results this week from consumer brands like Coca Cola, Airbnb, Shopify and Kraft Heinz.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
SOLOMON: The U.S. is also out with its latest look at retail sales on Wednesday as well and of course tomorrow, as we spoke about earlier with 
 
 Mohamed El-Erian we'll get the all-important U.S. CPI report. And I'll be right back after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back to "First Move"! Some of the world's luxury brands have come under fire for not being transparent enough about their supply 
 
 chains. Two young Canadian entrepreneurs have set out to change that with a solar powered watch in today's "Global Connections" Solios on a mission to 
 
 make watches with the lowest possible carbon footprint.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOLOMON (voice over): It took these two entrepreneurs a trip around the world to make a product that would not only help transform the market back 
 
 home in Canada, but in the watch making industry itself
 
ALEXANDRA DESABRAIS, CO-FOUNDER, SOLOIS: It makes more sense to move towards more durable practices and verbal consumption habits.
 
SOLOMON (voice over): Nearly a decade ago as university students in Montreal Zayla Rue and Alexandra Desabrais noticed that many brands weren't 
 
 transparent about where they were sourcing their material and how their items were being made? That's when they knew they wanted to build something 
 
 different.
 
DESABRAIS: The main issue that we saw with the watch industry was that it was very static. So there were not a lot of things happening. On the other 
 
 side we knew that the fashion industry is a very polluting one.
 
SOLOMON (voice over): According to a 2020 Human Rights Watch Report, several well-known jewelry and watch brands have raised alarm for not being 
 
 transparent with consumers about their supply chains. And with this in mind, Samuel and Alexandra knew they had to take a different approach.
 
SAMUEL LEROUX, CO-FOUNDER, SOLIOS: When we were working at our old job we told our boss like oh, we're taking some vacations, but we were just going 
 
 on the entire watch fair everywhere in the world.
 
SOLOMON (voice over): After visiting multiple cities across Europe and Asia, Samuel and Alexander finally discovered all the material they needed 
 
 to create the first Solios solar powered watch.
 
DESABRAIS: We managed to find the solar technology in Japan. And then we traveled to China and Hong Kong to find some pieces like the crystal and 
 
 the hands and the dial. And then we moved to France where we bought the letter that we worked with a company from Switzerland to assemble the 
 
 strap.
 
SOLOMON (voice over): While they weren't the only solar powered watches on the market, Samuel and Alexander say it's the raw materials that make their 
 
 watches different.
 
LEROUX: Usually these brands they had more bulky design or the dial itself was not something very minimal and very elegant compared to them. We're 
 
 trying to use new materials that are free of any petrochemicals.
 
SOLOMON (voice over): The first Solios watch launched in 2019. Since then, interest in their brand has spread out to more than 40 countries since the 
 
 majority of their customers buy the watches online.
 
DESABRAIS: The percentage of sales online is almost 100 percent for now. If we're talking about our top five markets, Canada first United States second 
 
 UK third Australia fourth and France is number five.
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
SOLOMON (voice over): But now Samuel and Alexander are hoping to achieve something even bigger. They're working on transforming Solios into a brand 
 
 that emits the lowest carbon footprint throughout all of its operations.
 
DESABRAIS: We do need to do our homework to make sure that even though we have different suppliers around the world, our emissions are at the lowest 
 
 level possible. We're going to evaluate moving one piece of production of one piece locally, but using a different technique that might be more 
 
 emitting.
 
SOLOMON (voice over): And as they head back to the drawing board, Samuel and Alexander are still optimistic about achieving their ultimate goal.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOLOMON: And finally, Singer Rihanna had fans saying please don't stop the music with her stunning Super Bowl halftime show. The high flying 
 
 performance was the biggest set for the singer in years since stepping back to focus a bit more on family acting and her hugely popular cosmetics line.
 
Fans commented on what they thought to be a baby bump and the Hollywood Reporter says she is indeed pregnant for the second time. Congratulations 
 
 to the icon! She was working. And that is it for the show. I'm Rahel Solomon. "Connect the World" coming up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END