Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Union Representing L.A. School Workers Plans Three-Day Strike; Virginia Prosecutor Explains Why 7 Deputies Face Murder Charges; French Parliament to Vote on No-Confidence Motions Against Government; Israel: Civilian Wounded in West Bank Shooting. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired March 20, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Bianca Nobilo. 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: And I'm Max Foster. If you're just joining us, let me bring you up to date with our top stories this hour. 
 
Another witness is set to testify in the grand jury investigation into Donald Trump's hush money payments to adult film star Stormy Daniels. A source telling CNN, Robert Costello, former attorney for Michael Cohen, will offer evidence in response to Cohen's claims. 
 
And in the coming hours, Chinese leader Xi Jinping will arrive in Moscow to meet with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin. The two are expected to kick off a visit with a one-on-one meeting discussing Russia's war on Ukraine and strengthening relations. 
 
NOBILO: In Southern California, a union representing thousands of school workers in Los Angeles plans to strike for three days this week. The move to protest what it calls unfair practices by the Los Angeles Unified School District, after months of contract negotiations. CNN's Camila Bernal has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The signs Jose Tovar is making will be used Tuesday, when a three-day strike is expected to force school closures in the second largest district in the nation.
 
JOSE TOVAR, L.A. UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT CUSTODIAN: We're not asking for the world. Just to live above water.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): Tovar, a custodian with a full-time job at an early education center, says he makes about $25,000 a year.
 
TOVAR: I love my job. Especially I deal with at lot of 5-year-old kids and make sure to keep it clean for them. Sometimes you don't feel appreciated and respect.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): And respect is what his union says this strike is about. While asking for more money, some members have reported harassment for doing so.
 
MAX ARIAS, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, SEIU LOCAL 99: Some have been harassed to the point where they've lost their job. They've lost income or they generally just -- some are intimidated.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): SEIU local 99 is the union representing thousands of cafeteria workers, bus drivers, custodians and other school workers. But the teacher's union is also joining the strike in solidarity.
 
ALBERTO M. CARVALHO, L.A. UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SUPERINTENDENT: Let's go to the table.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): L.A. USD superintendent Alberto Carvalho is hopeful that the two sides will come to a monetary agreement and says harassment claims are being reviewed.
 
CARVALHO: We have not been presented with compelling evidence that there's widespread abuses. Are there issues? Yes. Each one of them is vigorously investigated and consequences are applied on the basis of the merit of the allegation.
 <br>[04:35:02]
 
BERNAL (voice-over): The union says avoiding a strike is unlikely. Instead, they want to shine a light on minorities and low-income workers who keep the schools running. They see this as a wakeup call for other districts in the U.S. to fund education.
 
ARIAS: Elected officials throughout the country, federal and state, should see what's going on here and think this is happening in just about every district in this country.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): The superintendent also believes that when they come to an agreement, the rest of the nation will use it as an example.
 
CARVALHO: I believe that it will be precedent setting for the country. And I will take pride in it, as will the union. For these are some of the lowest wage earners in our community.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): Both sides worry about the students who may suffer greatly from school closures.
 
CARVALHO: Once you're forced to shut down a school, you eliminate some of the protections and rights children have -- the right to food, the right to health, the right to social and emotional support, the right to mental support, the right to have their disabilities addressed in an adequate way.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): But the union believes people like Jose Tovar need to make more money.
 
TOVAR: It's a struggle. It's hard. You know, sometimes like I'm thinking to myself, Lord, if I'm going to make it another day, you know, like this. BERNAL (voice-over): Because in the end, they say higher salaries for school workers will lead to better schools and better education.
 
BERNAL: And negotiations over wages will take place behind the scenes, but the union says that because this strike is not about the money. There could be more strikes in the future. They say they do not want to strike but will continue to push for what they believe is fair. In the meantime, you have many, many parents here in Los Angeles, who are trying to figure out exactly what to do with their children this week. 
 
Camila Bernal, CNN, Los Angeles. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: California's governor has proposed spending at least $1 billion every year to modernize the state's mental health services. Gavin Newsom says the money would go towards behavioral health, housing and care. And help change the way the state addresses mental illness, substance abuse and homelessness. Here's what he had to say about the current approach. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GAVIN NEWSOM, CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR: It's unacceptable, what we're dealing with at scale now in the state of California. Not only in terms of what's happening on the streets and sidewalks, but those that are suffering alone. Those that are unseen in homes in mobile home parks, on the streets, obviously as well in isolation. We have to address and come to grips with the reality of mental health in this state. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Newsom envisions thousands of new community treatment center and state of the art campuses to house those who are struggling. The proposal also includes specific funding to help homeless veterans. 
 
NOBILO: Now, some disturbing details about how a Black man died in custody at a state mental health facility in Virginia. Seven sheriff deputies have been charged with second degree murder. 
 
FOSTER: And a Virginia prosecutor tells CNN's Brian Todd why she decided to go ahead with those charges. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): New details on what the video shows of the final moments of 28 years old Irvo Otieno who died in custody on March 6 when he was brought to a mental health facility in Virginia.
 
The video, not yet published, but the county prosecutor in southern Virginia telling CNN why she has charged seven Henrico County deputies with second-degree murder, as well as three security guards at the Central State Hospital. ANN CABELL BASKERVILL, COMMONWEALTH'S ATTORNEY, DINWIDDIE COUNTY VIRGINIA: He goes to the ground, and one by one there are end up being 10 people on top of him all of whom are applying pressure, visibly they're putting their back into it, leaning down.
 
TODD: Is he resisting? Is he combative at all in those moments?
 
BASKERVILL: No, not at all. He's not moving. He's frankly lifeless.
 
TODD (voice-over): Another disturbing detail .
 
BASKERVILL: There are hospital staff that come in and out of the room as if there is nothing taking place. Nothing. No one tries to help.
 
TODD (voice-over): It began with a burglary call. On March 3rd, police showed up at Otieno's house with what a neighbor says was a disproportionate amount of officers.
 
BRADLEY MCNAMARA, NEIGHBOR OF IRVO OTIENO: He was very agitated, confused, heightened state of, you know, mental sensibility and everything.
 
TODD (voice-over): But his mother called him down, this neighbor tells CNN, and he never posed a threat to the officers.
 
MCNAMARA: Irvo wasn't treated like somebody was going through a mental health crisis. He was treated like a criminal from the beginning.
 
TODD (voice-over): But at the hospital, police say he became, quote, physically assaulted, and he was arrested and jailed.
 
In jail, the prosecutor says video shows he was pepper sprayed while handcuffed and naked, alone in his cell.
 
BASKERVILL: Five or six deputies at the jail, Henrico County jail tackle him, so he's than on the ground. And then he's on the ground underneath them for several minutes there. And blows are sustained at the Henrico County jail.
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
TODD: He was then taken to the mental health facility where authorities say he became combative, and where he died. A defense attorney for one of the charged deputies who has not been able to see the video tells CNN --
 
CALEB KERSHNER, ATTORNEY FOR DEPUTY RANDY BOYER: My client would describe him as violently noncompliant, constant -- being constant -- regularly violent. He had no idea or had reason to believe, in any way, based upon his vantage and what he was doing, that this man was any danger of his life.
 
TODD: Another attorney representing Deputy Bradley Disse tells CNN there's been a rush to judgment in this case and his client looks forward to being vindicated. We've reached out to the Henrico sheriff's department, to the Henrico police and to the Central State Hospital a responses to the very latest allegations. We have not heard back.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Henrico County, Virginia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Still ahead, as protests sweep across France, president Macron faces a test in Parliament and anger on the streets, a look at what's next when we return. 
 
FOSTER: And also ahead, an American citizen is among those shot along the road and the West Bank town of Huwara. We'll l have a live report from Jerusalem. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Back to the global banking turmoil. Shares of Credit Suisse are down more than 62 percent in early trading today, after Swiss bank UBS agreed to take over its rival to help stem the panic. Credit Suisse is being sold at a huge discount compared to what the bank was worth on Friday. UBS shares are also down, currently 13 percent lower. The Swiss Central Bank said in a statement the agreement would secure financial stability and protect the Swiss economy. 
 
NOBILO: French President Emmanuel Macron faces a test in Parliament, as protests across the country continue. The national assembly is set to vote on two no-confidence motions tabled by opposition lawmakers. 
 
FOSTER: They were file after the government bypassed a full parliamentary vote to raise the retirement age from 62 to 64. 
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
The no-confidence motions are expected to fail but unions are calling for strikes to bring the county to a standstill later in the week. 
 
NOBILO: Joining us live from Paris is CNN's Melissa Bell. Melissa Bell, if these new no-confidence motions are expected to fail, why is that? Obviously, it would require parties from all across the political spectrum banning together to unite. But if they don't, why aren't they? 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN PARIS CORRESPONDENT: Well, there is an awful lot of anger in the French Parliament, on the streets of France as you can see from these latest pictures just coming in. Already people taking to the streets and burning things out there. And this is something we've seen these last few days, ever since on Thursday, the government announced the use of this particular parliamentary procedure. 
 
Now, it isn't unusual that they should use it. I think the current Prime Minister has used it nearly a dozen time to force legislation through Parliament. It happens when like this government doesn't have the absolute majority it needs as it hasn't done since the last election last year. 
 
But to your question, Bianca, they would have to get the absolute majority to get this no-confidence vote in the government through. They have -- they're pretty close to it. The trouble for those who are hoping to see the French Prime Minister go on the back of this, is that they are just shy of it, because of the support of the government of the right Ile-de-France, Valerie Pecresse, the traditional French centrist right party. 
 
Now, some of them are expected to vote for the no-confidence motion. Will the half or so of their party members that need to vote, vote to have the government call, that we don't know. We'll know in a few hours' time, Bianca and Max, when the parliamentarians finally vote. Whatever happens in Parliament today, what is almost certain to continue is that discontent that we've seen on the streets. For four days in a row we saw the unplanned rallies. People taking to the streets. Burning the bins that are now fairly substantial numbers on the streets of France, and that is almost certainly to continue today -- Max, Bianca. 
 
NOBILO: Melissa Bell live from Paris, thank you. 
 
FOSTER: Pakistan's former Prime Minister Imran Khan is vowing to take legal action against the police saying they broke into his home in Lahore whilst he was away. It happened on Saturday as police again clashed with Khan supports outside the home. 
 
NOBILO: Khan also says that he plans to hold a public rally in Lahore on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Khan has another court hearing today though he's not required to be there in person. He's facing several legal challenges for alleged corruption, including illegally selling state gifts that he received while he was in office. 
 
The West Bank town Huwara has once again emerged as a flashpoint in the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. Israeli authorities said on Sunday that a civilian was wounded in a shooting attack there while driving through the town. The U.S. ambassador to Israel says that the victim is a U.S. citizen. 
 
FOSTER: He's been identified as a settler named as David Stern. And Israeli officials say he actually managed to return fire and injure his attacker. The suspect was later apprehended. This latest violence comes weeks after Israelis attacked Palestinians in Huwara following the shooting deaths of two Israeli brothers. For the very latest CNN's Hadas Gold is life in Jerusalem -- Hadas. 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Max, what we understand is that this man and his wife were driving through Huwara. Now one of the reasons it's become a flashpoint is because this village sits right along one of the main routes, main highways that's used by both Israeli settlers and Palestinians through the occupied West Bank. It's also surrounded by several settlements. 
 
Now while they were driving, they came under attack by a gunman. And as you can see from the images of the car, it seems that there were at least a dozen bullet holes through the windshield, the man David Stern managing actually to return fire, injuring the attacker who was then apprehended by Israeli soldiers. 
 
Now, amazingly despite what it looks like from the car, David Stern, the hospital says is actually in stable condition. They said his condition seemed worse when the medics first got to him, but that now he is in stable condition. 
 
Now this attack is rather similar to the attack that happened about three weeks ago when those Israeli brother, also settlers were shot and killed while driving through the same town. And as you noted a few hours later that's when we saw Israeli settlers go on revenge attacks. Rampages through Huwara and surrounding villages. Setting fire to cars and homes and one Palestinian man was killed in that ensuing chaos. 
 
Now last night, they were called by Israeli settlers to demonstrate once again but this time the evening passed quietly, likely because the Israeli military essentially learned their lesson from last time when they acknowledged they weren't prepared for the reaction from the Israeli settlers. And it seems as those the Israeli military managing to at least keep the calm. They have declared Huwara once again a closed military zone. That means that none of the shops or businesses in Huwara are open. It's not clear how long that will last for. 
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
But this attack and this incident actually coming on the same day that leaders from Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Egypt, Jordan, and the Americans met for a summit in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, in order to try and calm the situation, especially as the Ramadan holiday is set to begin later this week -- Max, Bianca. 
 
FOSTER: Hadas in Jerusalem, thank you. 
 
NOBILO: Just ahead, this year's March Madness Cinderella story has come to an end. We'll have the highlight from the second round and tell who's moving on to the sweet 16. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: Actress Demi Moore gave the world a rare glimpse of her former husband Bruce Willis on his birthday. She shared a video of their family gathering to celebrate his 68th. Willis stemmed away from acting and much of celebrity life after being diagnosed with dementia. Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILLIS'S FAMILY SINGING: Happy birthday dear daddy -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
FOSTER: Willis' wife Emma Heming shared on Instagram how she's navigated caring for husband, saying in part, it's important you that see all sides of this. People always tell me, oh, you're so strong, I don't know how you do it. I'm not given a choice. But I do have times of sadness every day, grief every day, and I'm really feeling it today on his birthday. The cast of TV's "Ted Lasso" are set to join U.S. President Joe Biden
 
 today for conversation on mental health. The topic has played a large role on the show which debuted its third season last week. 
 
NOBILO: President Biden has also spoken at length about mental health, mentioning it in his two state of the union addresses. In preparation he tweeted this photo of Ted Lasso's signature, "Believe" poster hanging above the door of the Oval Office. 
 
And shorter work weeks are one way to boost employee mental health. But in South Korea the government had actually been considering making the work week even longer. That is until the idea ran into strong opposition from young workers and labor unions.
 
FOSTER: Surprise, surprise. Employees in South Korea already face some of the longest hours in the world. Right now, the cap on working hours stands at 52 per week. Business groups have been pushing for an increase in an attempt to boost productivity and address a looming labor shortage. 
 
NOBILO: It is incredible. Because most of the evidence does suggest obviously shorter weeks, more productivity. 
 
FOSTER: Yes. 
 
NOBILO: Which makes sense, anecdotally people know if you work in shorter bursts you are going to be more --
 
FOSTER: They have as study that people were -- on the companies in the U.K. that tried four instead of five days, same level of productivity. 
 
NOBILO: Yes. 
 
FOSTER: They were happier and, you know, still produced as much. 
 
The field of 68 teams is down to a sweet 16 in the NCAA men's basketball tournament. Fairleigh Dickinson's Cinderella game to an end on Sunday, as they lost to Florida Atlantic 78-70. The team made history becoming only the second 16 seed to eliminate a number one seed in the first round. 
 
NOBILO: And Sunday's second round saw the battle of the Wildcats, with three-seed Kansas State defeating the six-seed Kentucky, 75-69. They'll face Michigan State in the next round on Thursday. 
 
FOSTER: They are already NBA level, aren't they, all those guys. 
 
Thanks for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster. 
 
NOBILO: And I'm Bianca Nobilo. "EARLY START" with Christine Romans is up next. 
 <br>[05:00:00]