Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Meeting of House Republicans to Select Speaker Nominee; After Hamas Attacks, Israeli Airstrikes Target Gaza; War Cabinet and Emergency Government Established by Israel; Interview with Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Senior Fellow and Former State Department Middle East Negotiator Aaron David Miller; Interview with Foreign Affairs Committee Rep. Jared Moskowitz (D-FL); Biden Works to Ensure the Release of American Hostages; Interview with Left New York to Rejoin IDF Noy Leyb; Interview with Family Kidnapped by Hamas Udi Goren; Israel at War. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired October 11, 2023 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:30:00]
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER:  But we are learning that U.S. intelligence officials in the preliminary intelligence that they have collected, there is some sign and some evidence that they have seen that we are not privy to, that sources have not described to us because it is so sensitive that the Iranian government was not aware that Hamas was going to be carrying out this particular attack. Kate.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  That's so interesting. Great reporting to you and the team. As always, Natasha, we're going to have much more on this and they're going to continue working, your sources. Thank you.
 
Sara.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  All right. As the U.S. grapples with what is unfolding in Israel, vowing complete support for Israel, one full congressional body is basically paralyzed. Unable to function because it has no leader. Today, a step towards finally getting a speaker of the House. Right now, as we speak, House Republicans are meeting privately to nominate the next speaker of the House.
 
The process could be lengthy, however, and pretty messy as you have been seeing all these days. Its divided GOP conference is forced to come back together and pick just one person that they think could get this job done. Majority Leader Steve Scalise and Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Jordan both want that gavel, but it is unclear right now if either has the votes to win the nomination.
 
CNN's Manu Raju is joining us from Capitol Hill this morning. Manu, you are always all over that -- all over Capitol Hill. You get to everyone, and you just got to Jim Jordan, one of the people who is up for a vote. What did he say?
 
MANU RAJU, CNN ANCHOR, INSIDE POLITICS SUNDAY AND CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, I talked to him about the process that would take place here and whether or not he would actually get behind Steve Scalise, the person who is -- of course, he is running against here. And he didn't quite say directly, but he said that it would be the -- you get behind whoever gets 217 votes and the House -- in -- would behind closed doors.
 
And this is why this is significant, behind closed doors right now the House Republicans are meeting. They're discussing their way forward. They're going to have a secret ballot election to decide who will be their nominee to be the next speaker of the House. Under current rules, that requires 111 votes. A majority of the House Republican conference.
 
Jim Jordan is trying to change that along with some other members to make it 217 votes. That is a majority of the full House. He believes that he wants to sort all these issues out behind close doors, come out from behind closed doors, unified behind one pick which could be a protracted and very messy process. So, when I asked him about that just moments ago, he indicated that's his ultimate decision to decide whether to support another person for the job if they can get the votes a majority of the full house. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU:  Mr. Jordan, will you endorse Steve Scalise if he wins the votes today?
 
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH):  I'll support anyone who can get 217 votes. We got to come together to -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU:  So, I can tell you though, Sara, in talking to a number of members walking into this room, many of them are still undecided even though they have to cast that very significant vote at this moment. So, there is so much uncertainty within the GOP. Can they actually get behind one candidate after last week's ouster of Kevin McCarthy, that unprecedented vote still leaving lots of very, very raw emotions.
 
But nothing could get done here in the House, including aid to Israel, aid to Ukraine, taking steps to avoid a government shutdown until they elect the next speaker of the House, which is why this moment is so significant. See if Republicans can actually get behind someone who can get the votes on the House floor to be elected as the next speaker.
 
Sara.
 
SIDNER:  Yes, in order to do the work of the American people as there is so much going on that they need to take care of. Manu Raju, thank you as always for all your excellent reporting.
 
We are going to take a break here. First, some pictures there live from Gaza. It's 5:30 in the evening there, and you still see those huge plumes of smoke. We will have much more on the war between Israel and Hamas ahead. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  So, Israel is forming an emergency government and war management cabinet, this just news in. We learned this just moment ago the government there will not pass any laws or make decisions that do not concern the conduct of the war, that's according to the announcement made by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the current Defense Minister Yoav Gallant.
 
Former State Department Middle East Negotiator and Senior Fellow at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Aaron David Miller joins us now. No one better than you to explain this, Aaron. Why is this significant? In 30 seconds or less for our audience, why does it matter that these feuding political factions in Israel are coming together a bit?
 
AARON DAVID MILLER, SENIOR FELLOW, CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE AND FORMER STATE DEPARTMENT MIDDLE EAST NOGTIATOR: I mean, this is the first piece of good news, John, I think in a long -- as we are about to enter a long, dark tunnel. Number one, you are bringing in Benny Gantz, former minister of defense into the staff. Number two, Gabi Ashkenazi will come in as part of the work gamut, former chief of staff.
 
And they will blunt the influence, seems to me, of the more extremist right-wing ministers in the government, that's number one. Number two, no legislation can be passed, which means the judicial overhaul is not just dead on a temporary basis. It is dead permanently. And number three, given what we are about to face, this is not an issue of weeks or probably even months. This national unity government, emergency government, unity government.
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
I suspect is the wave of the future and that unbalanced anything to counter the fundamentalist, extremist nature with some cooler heads and some serious deep, military experience. Unbalance. Good news amidst a lot of very depressing accounts.
 
BOLDUAN:  Absolutely. The con -- that is really important perspective of what it means today and will mean going forward, Aaron. What good news -- you say good news for Israel? What does, obviously, in the most immediate Hamas, and the Hamas-led government in Gaza, what do they see this as? What is the message to them? What do -- what would they hear from this or should they?
 
MILLER:  Well, I think for sure it creates the urgency and the imminence, perhaps, of a major moving -- a major Israeli moving campaign into Gaza. A matter of days, if not weeks. I think there's really no significance with this for Hamas. I think the real significance, Kate is that this represents not just the headline, but I think this represents a trend line. And it is a very important trend line because you've got the most extreme right-wing government in history of the State of Israel, pursuing annexation policies on the West Bank, and trying to undermine Israeli democracy.
 
I think both of those initiatives, frankly, are going to stall. And you get some -- I know I'm being pejorative here, some adult supervision into this. Will it contain the -- what the Israelis are going to do in Gaza? I think that's a central question. The blood is up. Every Israeli I talked to or I hear former military intel folks, they're all saying we need to, "Change the reality," in Gaza.
 
What does that mean? The eradication of Hamas as a governing force, as a -- and a military force? A new political reality? A semi-impermanent Israeli reoccupation of Gaza? A U.N. transitional force funded by government -- elected by Palestinians, funded by Gulf money in an effort to create a new future for Gaza? I mean, we've got real uncertainties without much precision on where we're headed.
 
BOLDUAN:  Absolutely. Aaron, thanks for jumping on. Aaron David Miller for us.
 
Sara.
 
SIDNER:  All right. We have just been talking about this, but a classified briefing for House members finished just minutes ago to get members there up to speed on the latest of what is happening in Israel. One of the congressmen in the room, Jared Moskowitz. He is from Florida. He serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
 
Thank you so much for joining us. I know you just came out of the meeting. We have heard this one striking thing that has come out of that briefing, that the U.S. has collected specific intelligence that really does cast doubt, that Iran was directly involved in the surprise attack by Hamas on Israel. Can you give us and our viewers any sense of how you understood how the intelligence agencies came to that initial conclusion?
 
REP. JARED MOSKOWITZ (D-FL):  Yes, thanks for having me. Obviously, I'm not going to talk about classified information, but what I would say is I think that's being slightly misinterpreted. What I would say is that that is still an ongoing process. They were clear about that that they are still gathering intelligence on that matter, but that there's no initial intelligence that shows that.
 
So, I -- before we jump conclusions that Iran was not involved in this attack, let the intelligence community please finish their investigation. However, what I would say was super clear to everyone in the room, even before we received this information, this is publicly known, obviously, that Iran has been financing Hamas, training Hamas, helping Hamas, communicating with Hamas, providing cyber technology, you know, throughout the last coming years. So, Iran is complicit in the act, if not indirectly and also directly.
 
SIDNER:  And I agree with you that the -- and I made very clear that this is an initial assessment because it is very clear that they said, look, we don't have a full conclusion yet. They're in the throes of trying to figure this out. But in the interim, you talked about Iran's involvement. It has been a long involvement. They support Hamas, they support Hezbollah, there's also rockets coming over from Jordan into Israel.
 
What do you think the U.S.' involvement should be knowing that they are in the background and this is happening rid now where Israel has a fight on two fronts?
 
MOSKOWITZ:  Well, number one, the United States needs to engage on getting back American citizens. That's priority one, in my opinion. You know, American citizens are missing at the moment.
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
The United States will be doing everything we can to get our hostages back.
 
Number two, the United States needs to do everything it can, not just to show Israel that we're with them, but to show the International Community that the United States stands steadfast with their ally, Israel. And we are going to do everything they can -- we -- that they need us to do so that they can defend themselves against these barbaric attacks, the largest attacks in 50 years in Israel, the largest amount of Jews killed in a single day since the holocaust.
 
But on that specific question, I think we need to explain to the Iranians and to Hezbollah and to the region, and this is my -- we don't have -- this is -- no decision was made. Obviously, this is for the president to decide. My position is that if Hezbollah were to attack Israel on any consistent basis, where they try to move forces into Israel, that would require the United States to intervene directly with our military force.
 
SIDNER:  And I do want to make clear, I misspoke and said Jordan. I meant Lebanon because that is where Hezbollah exists. I am curious what you think of -- there has been a lot of discussion of the $6 billion that was unfrozen -- that was Iran's oil money that was unfrozen for humanitarian purposes. Do you think, at this point in time, knowing what the U.S. knows and for their past involvement with these groups that they should completely cut that off no matter what it was going to be used for?
 
MOSKOWITZ:  Yes, so let me say a couple of things. So, you know, my district and when I was in the State House in Florida, represented the family of Bob Levinson who the Iranians took hostage and unfortunately died in their hands. So, I believe the United States needs to do everything it can to get back American hostages at all point in time.
 
I was against the $6 billion being a part of that deal. And what I would say to make it clear is that none of that money, none of that money has left the fund that it is currently in that Qatar is involved in. So, none of that money has moved at all. As far as whether it should move, I think without having a specific policy that that money is frozen, my guess is that money is going nowhere in -- under the current situation.
 
SIDNER:  All right. I do want to ask you, you have talked about and we have all been watching the horror, the terror that has unfolded in Israel with so many people, 100 to 150 people taken hostage. Babies massacred, you know, mothers, grandparents also killed. So, that sorrow is unfolding there in Israel. But there is also great sorrow in Gaza at the moment.
 
And Doctors Without Borders says that the situation in Gaza is catastrophic. The hospitals are overwhelmed. The number of wounded is extremely high. There is a constant influx into the hospitals in the Gaza Strip. And as you -- you just sort of look at that happening, there is also now the cutting off of water, electricity and fuel supplies. And they're saying, that unacceptable. It punishes the entire population and deprives Palestinians of really basic needs.
 
What do you think should be the U.S. message and the U.S. action in trying to mitigate civilian deaths in one of the most densely populated cities on Earth?
 
MOSKOWITZ:  Yes, let me make three points on that. So, first is, obviously, we've seen the barbarism committed by Hamas, not just the killing of infants. I was at that Kibbutz just a month and a half ago, and the 40 babies being murdered there and most of the population in the Kibbutz. To see a holocaust survivor taken hostage, I mean, the idea that she survived the holocaust and now she's a hostage again. I mean, Jews are never going back to those times.
 
And so, what's happening in Gaza now, we have to be clear. What's happening in Gaza is -- that's Hamas' fault. The situation in Gaza is Hamas' fault. It's Hamas' fault for the fact that they've taken none of this aid that they've gotten over the years to help the Palestinian people. And it's Hamas' fault that they committed genocide in Israel and now Israel has to respond to make sure Hamas is eliminated. With that said -- 
 
SIDNER:  But I think what -- 
 
MOSKOWITZ:  -- this really needs to be -- 
 
SIDNER:  -- let me just jump in here. I think what you said -- 
 
MOSKOWITZ:  I'm getting -- I'm getting to that point.
 
SIDNER:  Yes, and I'm going to get that. I just want to say, you had mentioned that this is Hamas' fault. And Hamas does know that when they strike Israel, they are going to -- there is going to be a response, a major response. But there are still civilians, obviously, 2 million people live there. There are many, many civilians who are -- they don't know where to go and they don't know what to do.
 
MOSKOWITZ:  Yes, I was -- you know, I was getting to that point which is, listen, Israel needs to be doing everything it can to minimize civilian casualties. I can tell you the United States not once, not twice, not three times, but every single conversation we are having with Israel, we are making that point to make sure that we are minimizing civilian casualties, that we're opening on up corridors.
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
Obviously, I'm deeply concerned about innocent civilians being killed. I'm also deeply concerned about a humanitarian crisis breaking out in the Gaza Strip. But we have to remember again that the reason this is happening is because Hamas decided to commit a 9/11-style event and put every innocent Palestinian in the Gaza Strip in great peril.
 
SIDNER:  Representative Jared Moskowitz, thank you so much. I know you are hard at work. I know you've been in and out of hearings. And thank you for clarifying and explaining what has happened in those hearings, vis-a-vis, Iran and its involvement potentially in this -- with Hamas. Thank you so much. We will be checking in with you when you can if you can give us new information.
 
John.
 
BERMAN:  So, we have an interesting, sort of, different angle on this. From the boardroom to the front lines, an Israeli Canadian man just left the tech company he started in New York to go fight with the IDF in Israel. Noy Leyb, says he could not sleep after hearing about the Hamas terrorist attack. So, he booked the first flight he could find. He is with us now.
 
Noy, thank you very much for being with us. We see you. What made you decide to go back to Israel?
 
NOY LEYB, LEFT NEW YORK TO REJOIN IDF:  It was a pretty quick decision. You know, you -- we all saw the news on Friday night of the massacre that was going on, that surprise all of us. Immediately my two brothers were called back to the army. My friends in my unit were called back. And there was no way I was going to stay in New York without going back to serve. So, I got on the first flight, came back, and joined my unit.
 
BERMAN:  And you've been back since the weekend. What have you seen?
 
LEYB:  I mean, it's been tough for everyone. It's a war, you know. It's nice to see the entire country coming together, forgetting politics for a second, everyone is supporting each other, but it is a situation that no one wants to be in. You know, my dad and my mom drove me up to base and they told me that they haven't felt this (INAUDIBLE) military vehicles on the road since my dad was in the army back in the Lebanon war.
 
BERMAN:  You have been in the IDF, obviously, before. How does it feel different this time?
 
LEYB:  Look, when you're in a reserve duty, it's usually not for a war. You have missions here and there. Usually training or guarding and it's -- it's you come, you train, you go back to your family. And it's hard, but it's part of the duty. It can also be fun sometimes. But this is different, every single reservist that has joined the IDF, and I speak on behalf of myself, not the IDF, but every single reservist has come knowing that they're joining a war, and that there are going to be some Israeli soldiers who won't come back from that war.
 
BERMAN:  And look, I don't want you to reveal any details that could compromise your security or anything of that nature, but do you know what you will be doing? Do you anticipate that before this is over, you could be inside Gaza?
 
LEYB:  There are, unfortunately, more than one conflict zones, and every combat soldier is -- knows that at one point or another. They may be in that conflict zone and that's what we're preparing for.
 
BERMAN:  Of course, I mentioned Gaza, but there is potential for tension, if not direct military action in the north as well against Hezbollah. Noy Leyb, we do appreciate you being with us. Please stay safe.
 
LEYB:  All right. Send us your prayers and we'll see you on the other side.
 
BERMAN:  Obviously, a lot going on. We are getting breaking news about the Israeli government. Plus, news about the situation on the ground. Our live special coverage continues right after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
BOLDUAN:  So, as Israel prepares to try and take out Hamas in Gaza, as Hamas is threatening to execute the hostages that they have now taken. And as civilians in Gaza are seeking shelter from the airstrikes that are now coming in on them. The reality of the grotesque brutality of the Hamas attack is coming into further focus. Armed terrorists pouring into Israel without warning, raiding communities, targeting everyone that they could, entire families wiped out, no one unaffected. So many people searching for their families and loved ones now.
 
I want to bring in Udi Goren. He lives in Northern Israel. He's fled to Cyprus with his family for the time being. He has more than one family member now believed kidnapped by Hamas. Udi, thank you so much for your time. Your-- 
 
UDI GOREN, FAMILY KIDNAPPED BY HAMAS:  Thanks, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  -- cousin who you grew up with, his brother-in-law from their -- Kibbutz. You believe that they -- they're believed to be kidnapped and in Gaza right now. What can you tell us about what happened to them?
 
GOREN:  That's right. So, my entire family on my mother's side live in a Kibbutz called Nir Yitzhak which borders Gaza, and they were pretty much the first to be affected on Saturday, 6:30 in the morning. Gunshots were heard. And my cousin, my second cousin and his brother- in-law were a part of the emergency squad that the Kibbutz has for these kinds of emergencies. So, they were the first one to jump out and try to tackle these people. Obviously, they were outnumbered. They didn't stand any chance. As the rest of my family fled to the shelters, they themselves were captured, and the last time that their phones were traced they were in the Gaza Strip.
 
BOLDUAN:  Is there any -- since it's all happened, I've heard of more than one family seeing images popping up later on in the days since -- have -- there's been any images of proof of life or anything that you can grasp on to?
 
GOREN:  At this point, no. At this point, we really don't know what happened to them. Our only hope is that since we did have a trace of their cell number that they weren't left dead on the side of the road.
 
BOLDUAN:  Talk to me about your uncle. You told my producers that he was in a house with his family.
 
GOREN:  Right, so -- 
 
BOLDUAN:  And they had to hide under -- 
 
GOREN:  That's right.
 
BOLDUAN:  -- they were hiding under beds as the terrorists came to their house. How did they survive?
 
GOREN:  They literally hid under the bed. So, this is -- you guys keep mentioning and you know, in the Israeli consciousness, the holocaust stories are still very much alive. You know, all of my four grandparents are holocaust survivors. So, hiding under the beds takes us back 90 years to these exact same stories that brought our family to Israel.
 
And, yes, so as soon as they realized something was happening they -- so again, this is my mother's cousin, the guy who's kidnapped, his uncle, they hid under the bed, they heard knocks on the door as we -- I mean, there were many videos coming out of people using security cameras and showing how Hamas terrorists knocked on their door, tried to force themselves in. And luckily, God knows why they didn't kick the door down.
 <br>[11:00:00]