Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Moscow and Kyiv Accuse Each Other of Shelling As Rescuers Rush to Help People Escape the Flooding from a Massive Dam Collapse in Kherson; Four Children Injured in a Knife Attack in France; Canadian Wildfire Smoke Engulfs U.S. East Coast; Biden, British Pm Hold Joint News Conference. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired June 08, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00]
 
ISA SOARES, CNN HOST: A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, Moscow and Kyiv accuse each other of shelling as rescuers 
 
 rush to help people escape the flooding from a massive dam collapse. Innocent victims after a brazen knife attack in a playground in France. 
 
We have new details this hour about the suspect. And it is very hard to breathe, it seems. Smoky skies that millions of Americans across the 
 
 northeast staying indoors. But first, this evening, U.S. President Joe Biden and British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak are about to speak from the 
 
 White House. 
 
We will bring you, of course, that live when it happens. It's meant to start about half an hour ago, but we're keeping our eyes peeled, as you can 
 
 imagine. These are live images coming to us from the White House. You've got a lot of people sitting there, waiting. But I've been told, not all the 
 
 seats are full, so perhaps we have to wait a tiny bit longer. 
 
Now, Mr. Sunak, as you may know is on a two-day trip to Washington, he's trying to deepen economic ties between the two countries more than three 
 
 years, of course, after Brexit. Russia's war on Ukraine is also at the top of the agenda, as well as artificial intelligence and the climate 
 
 emergency. The two leaders met in the Oval Office a few hours ago and touched on the special relationship. Have a listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Together, we're providing an economic, humanitarian aid and security assistance to Ukraine and their 
 
 fight against brutal invasion of the Russians. 
 
RISHI SUNAK, PRIME MINISTER, UNITED KINGDOM: It's one thing to think of the conversations that our predecessors had in this room. And again, for the 
 
 first time over half a century, we face a war on the European continent. And as we've done before, the U.S. and the U.K. have stood together to 
 
 support Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: And that special relationship goes back to Eisenhower and Queen Elizabeth II of course. I want to bring in White House reporter Kevin 
 
 Liptak. And Kevin, we are waiting, of course, for this to start. But talk us through -- it's a busy agenda as we outlined. Talk us through what we're 
 
 expected to hear from them here. 
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, they're running about 30 minutes late, which I guess is a good sign because it means -- 
 
SOARES: Well -- 
 
LIPTAK: They're still talking in the Oval Office. And they had been expected to talk about Ukraine, that had been at the top of their agenda, 
 
 of course. They have coordinated very closely on this topic, and it is essential that they are coordinated as this war enters this critical stage 
 
 with signs that the counteroffensive is getting underway. 
 
One of the critical points that I think was expected to be discussed was this issue of the F-16 fighter jets. Of course, the Brits have said that 
 
 they will help train Ukrainian pilots on their version of the fighter jet, as President Biden makes clear that he has dropped his opposition to 
 
 sending those F-16s into Ukraine. 
 
But when you talk to the Brits, and I talked to a British official earlier this week, really, it was economic issues that were at the top of Rishi 
 
 Sunak's agenda, as he was preparing for this meeting. Really hoping for what he calls economic interoperability, ensuring that the two economies 
 
 are aligned, helping boost American investments in the United Kingdom and, of course, where Rishi Sunak does potentially have an election coming up in 
 
 the coming year.
 
And certainly, he will want to look smart when he is sitting there in the Oval Office with President Biden. And it was interesting to hear them, to 
 
 see that dynamic as they were sitting down to begin these talks. President Biden talked about the relationship between Roosevelt and Winston 
 
 Churchill. 
 
Now, it's clear this is not Roosevelt and Churchill, it's not Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan, it's not even President Obama and David 
 
 Cameron. They are still sort of developing this relationship. There are obvious ideological differences between these two men, there's a major 
 
 generational difference as well. Rishi Sunak is the youngest member of the G7 at 43, President Biden is the oldest at 80. 
 
But they are trying to cultivate an effective working relationship, and in the view of the White House, what is really central here is some stability 
 
 in Downing Street. Of course, they had been looking for that after that tumultuous period over the Summer as the British went through a series of 
 
 prime ministers over the course of a few months. 
 
Now, there is what they view as sort of a pragmatic partner in Downing Street, sort of low-key, kind of mirroring the style that President Biden 
 
 has adopted for himself. And so, they do see these areas where they can partner going forward. But certainly, when we see them walk out and we see 
 
 them answering questions, I do think it's these questions of international security that will be at the top of the agenda. 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
Things like Ukraine, things like China, that is a big topic of discussion as well. And as well as this issue of artificial intelligence that Sunak 
 
 really does want to position the United Kingdom as a leader on. He is proposing having a leaders' summit in the U.K. on this issue in the Autumn, 
 
 and he will want to get President Biden's sign off on that as well. 
 
So, certainly, a lot for them to discuss. One thing that they won't discuss is a free trade agreement. That had been something that has been in the 
 
 works under the Trump administration. It was sort of put on ice when Biden came into office. They are looking for sort of a post-Brexit trade 
 
 agreement with the United States, but I think it will have to wait and see. That will still -- that's still to come.
 
That's not something that they will discuss today. But certainly, plenty of other items that will be on their agenda. 
 
SOARES: Plenty of items, very busy agenda you mentioned as well. You mentioned Ukraine and A.I. Are we expecting any major announcements on 
 
 those two items, be it A.I. and more regulation or Ukraine. What are you hearing here, Kevin? 
 
LIPTAK: Well, I think on A.I., what Sunak was really hoping to do is to get into these discussions that the United States is having on this issue with 
 
 another, a number of other allies, particularly with the European Union. The U.S. and the EU have this technology dialogue in which they have been 
 
 discussing A.I. 
 
Britain has not been a part of that because, of course, they are no longer a part of the EU. And so, what Sunak wants to do is sort of position the 
 
 United Kingdom as a key for developing, but also very critically, regulating this emerging technology. And remember, Sunak has an MBA from 
 
 Stanford, he sort of considers himself a techie, and he does want to take a leading role on this, as it becomes more and more critical in the national 
 
 security space, Isa. 
 
SOARES: Kevin Liptak there for us, we're keeping our eyes peeled, Kevin, as soon as it kicks off, we'll then touch base with you, appreciate it, thank 
 
 you very much. Well, even if Ukraine won't -- well, the impact, of course, of the Nova Kakhovka dam collapse could be dealt -- be felt really for 
 
 years to come as you can imagine. 
 
Some of the richest farmland in the world has been flooded and waste water and chemicals sprayed into the proposed -- a sanitation hazard. Both 
 
 Ukrainian and Russian-backed officials warn the breach may have uprooted mines and other explosives. And then there's areas that previously were 
 
 deemed safe could be littered with weapons waiting to kill and maim. 
 
Well, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited the flood zone, viewing the damage that you can see there, firsthand. The Ukrainians are 
 
 asking for aid and accusing the Russians of abandoning flood victims south of the river. Evacuations have continued, but so has the fighting. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And the Russians there (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
(ARTILLERY FIRE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: That video you're looking at there, that shows Ukraine's chief rabbi taking cover. That is in Kherson. Both sides report shelling in the 
 
 south and the Russians say, they have repelled a Ukrainian assault in the Zaporizhzhia region. For the very latest, let's go to CNN's Sam Kiley, 
 
 who's live for us this evening in Kyiv. 
 
And Sam, water continues as we've seen in the footage before there, to flood out the dam. Mass evacuation also continuing. What are the challenges 
 
 that authorities are facing? What are you hearing from authorities on the ground? 
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think the first challenge is probably the movement and flushing of land mines. Now, of 
 
 course, on the Russian side, there are unmat (ph) at least by the non- occupying forces. But on the Ukrainian side, the international community, The HALO Trust, other organizations, have been very carefully mapping and 
 
 de-mining the huge amounts of mines left behind by the Russian occupation. 
 
Many of them along the riverbanks itself. They are being now washed around. We've seen detonations underwater of these mines, some of them are anti-
 
 tank mines, so they're quite difficult to detonate, but equally very devastating when they do. Anti-personnel mines, of course, mingled up with 
 
 them. 
 
A really chaotic situation making rescue harder, particularly, when the Russians, even though they have also been inundated on their side, have 
 
 some defense in-depth as the military would call it. They've got artillery positions still capable of attacking the rescuers, the people afflicted by 
 
 the flooding on the Ukrainian-controlled side of the dam, and then, of course, longer term, you've got the ecological consequences of this flood. 
 
And all of this happening at a time when the Ukrainians are increasing their shaping operations as part of their ongoing efforts to ramp-up the 
 
 attacks against Russia, ahead or as part of this much wanted counteroffensive, Isa. 
 
SOARES: Let's talk about their shaping operations. And I'm just looking down because I'm keeping a close eye as well on the White House. Prime 
 
 Minister -- British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak expected to meet with President Joe Biden, so, apologies in advance, Sam, if I have to interrupt. 
 
 What is the latest in the situation on the frontlines and this shaping and these probing tactics that we're hearing from the Ukrainians? What have you 
 
 been seeing? 
 <br>[14:10:00]
 
KILEY: We've seen a lot of this over the last week or so. Increase in attacks, particularly on the east, west front that runs east, if you like, 
 
 from Zaporizhzhia towards the city of Donetsk. That, of course, held by the Russians, and south of that frontline, the great prize of Crimea, which the 
 
 Ukrainians want to be able to liberate from the Russians after they captured it in 2014. 
 
We've been seeing regular company size, a 100, 150 men, sometimes smaller, probing attacks, reconnaissance by force. A Ukrainian officer that I spoke 
 
 to earlier on today described it probing the Russian lines, testing their reactions, of course, taking casualties too. They are meeting significant 
 
 resistance. 
 
The Russians know that is a favored line of advance for the Ukrainians and have very significant defensive capabilities in that area. And that's what 
 
 the Ukrainians are trying to test and probe and feel for any weak spots. And at the same time, we also know from not only the Ukrainian Ministry of 
 
 Defense, but also our own sources also on the ground, south of Bakhmut that the Ukrainians have made some significant progress, capturing up to about 3 
 
 kilometers of territory south of that city or re-capturing territory that they lost to Russian advances earlier on in this year. 
 
So, these are very dynamic frontlines. All of it, a kind of game would be an ugly term for what is such a brutal conflict. But probing one another, 
 
 trying to find weak spots and with the possibility of greater levels of offensive, certainly from the Ukrainians down the line. But also, of 
 
 course, destabilizing the Russian lines is very much part of what the Ukrainian campaign is all about. 
 
Keeping the Ukrainians guessing -- they're right now keeping the Russians guessing, rather. Right now, they want the Russians to guess whether or not 
 
 their main effort will be on that Zaporizhzhia frontline, for example. 
 
SOARES: Sam Kiley for us in Kyiv this hour, thanks very much, Sam. And I'll have much more on Russia's invasion of Ukraine later this hour, when 
 
 Ukrainian Vice Foreign Minister Andriy Melnyk joins me live from Kyiv. That's coming up in about, what? Twenty minutes or so. Now, six people, 
 
 including four children have been wounded in a knife attack on a playground in southeast France. 
 
According to police, the male suspect identified in this photo by authorities was taken into custody shortly after the incident. Earlier 
 
 today, they seized a Syrian asylum seeker, and his motive for attack is unclear at this point. Some of the victims in the attack were quite young. 
 
 Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): We have one child of 22 months, two children of two years old, and one child of three. Among them, one is 
 
 of Dutch and one of British nationality. They are toddlers(ph), this attack in the park facing the Annecy Lake. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: Well, this is the area in Annecy where the attack occurred. French President Emmanuel Macron called the suspect's actions cowardice, and says 
 
 the nation is in shock. Our Melissa Bell joins us now from Paris. And Melissa, we are expecting -- I'm not sure if our team told you there, to 
 
 hear from President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak at the White House. 
 
That's expected to happen any moment now. So, if I have to interrupt you, apologies in advance. Let -- tell us -- bring us up to date on the latest 
 
 and about the suspect, who is he, what his motives here? 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, the motive for the time being are still unclear, and sort of getting more mysterious the more we learn about 
 
 him. What we're hearing from French media, Isa, is that he is a Syrian Christian, and that he used his Christianity as part of his claim of asylum 
 
 here in Europe. 
 
As the prosecutor that you just heard from there at that press conference explained, it was in 2013 that he arrived in Sweden, successfully claimed 
 
 asylum, then sought to apply for it again in France, was rejected, since he had received in the European Union, and more than that, he's not really 
 
 known. 
 
What the authorities say is that he was not under the influence of anything, he appears to have had no psychiatric conditions, there was 
 
 nothing to alert anyone to the fact that he might go on this rampage. He was not on the radar of French intelligence or were, as far as we can tell, 
 
 any intelligence services here in Europe. 
 
There was no -- there's no previous criminal history, and yet, what we see on the amateur footage that has emerged, Isa, is a very chilling, fairly 
 
 slow, it feels, as you watch it, although it did last several minutes, methodical rampage through this garden, this tourist spot which had been 
 
 full of children, full of people enjoying the hot weather here in France at the moment, and deliberately targeting the very youngest. 
 
So, grown-ups were pushed aside and the youngest are stabbed. And I think that is also the brutality of it, the targeting, the age of the victims, 
 
 what has really gripped France and caused such a sense of outrage and shock. Here's what Elisabeth Borne; the French Prime Minister had to say, 
 
 speaking from the scene shortly after she had arrived. 
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ELISABETH BORNE, PRIME MINISTER, FRANCE (through translator): I think his parents, the citizens, we can only imagine the shock. We're already very 
 
 shocked and I was able to talk to the people who intervened to save those children. I can assure you that it's very shocking. There's a lot of 
 
 emotion among those who intervened to help. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BELL: And the wider public that were in that park at the time it happened also being described by the prosecutors, Isa, as victims. The images that 
 
 they saw, although, several minutes where he seemed unstoppable to be going after these children would have been profoundly traumatic for anyone who 
 
 was there. But for the time being, no suggestion -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
BELL: That he is part of a wider network, no suggestion of a terror plot at all. And unhinged man who went on a rampage for reasons that are for now 
 
 unclear, Isa. 
 
SOARES: And no red flags as you mentioned there, Melissa. What is the latest? Because just watching that footage just brings chills on the back 
 
 of my back, my spine. What is the latest on the condition of the children? Do we know -- you have an update? 
 
BELL: We know that several of the victims, so four of the victims who were wounded physically, Isa, are very young children, there were two adults as 
 
 well. What we heard earlier from President Macron was that several of those were between life and death. So what we understand this hour is that some 
 
 of those pre-school aged children are even now fighting for their lives. So we keep a wary eye on the toll and what emerges from the hospitals there in 
 
 Annecy -- 
 
SOARES: Melissa, let me -- 
 
BELL: Clearly, all the more shock -- 
 
SOARES: Melissa, I'm sorry to interrupt, I'm sorry to interrupt. I just want to take our viewers to this press conference in Washington where U.S. 
 
 President Joe Biden is holding a conference -- a press conference with U.K. Prime Minister. 
 
BIDEN: I'd like to start with the permission of our British friends to just say a few words about the wildfire in Canada and the quality of the air 
 
 here -- 
 
(CLEARS THROAT) 
 
On the East Coast. It has blanketed the communities on the East Coast, and the smoke this past few days. I just put out a more detailed statement, so 
 
 for the press and for the people who want to see. But I spoke yesterday with Prime Minister Trudeau, and I have decided to dictate a national 
 
 inter-agency fire center response to Canada's request for additional firefighters, and the fire suppression assets such as air tankers. 
 
We already have 600 American firefighters on the ground, that have been there for a while in Canada including hot shots and the smoke jumper crews. 
 
 And it's very important that affected communities listen to the guidance of their state and local officials from this point forward to keep up-to-date 
 
 on the air quality in real-time. 
 
Go to the app that we provide, it's called airnow.gov, and check on one another. And by the way, what you'll get is something that look like this, 
 
 with a -- with a calibrated piece that says when the air is clean and when the air is dangerous and hazardous. And it dictates what -- to tell you the 
 
 air quality in your neighborhood. 
 
Now, it's my honor -- my honor to welcome Prime Minister Sunak to the White House, appreciate -- we -- you're probably tired of meeting. We met in 
 
 March in San Diego to discuss AUKUS, and with Prime Minister of Australia in April, we were there for the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday 
 
 Agreement in Belfast. 
 
We met and discussed again today the need to get the storm -- institution in Northern Ireland up and running. Last month, together with our G7 
 
 partners in Hiroshima, we drove progress on everything from our shared support for the brave people of Ukraine, to the common principles of 
 
 engaging with China. 
 
Today in Washington, we have had important and positive discussion that deepen our bilateral economic relationship, and to expand our cooperation 
 
 to shape the challenges and future of this -- remainder of this century. As a testament to the depth and breadth and I would argue the intensity of our 
 
 cooperation and coordination, which has existed, and continues to exist between the United Kingdom and the United States. 
 
There is no issue of global importance, none, that our nations are not leading together. And we're sharing our common values to make things 
 
 better. And our conversation today, we continue to build on all that we've achieved over these past months. 
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
We discussed how we can continue to adapt and upgrade our partnership to ensure our countries remain at the cutting edge of a rapidly changing 
 
 world. Our economic partnership is enormous strength and source of strength that anchors everything that we do together. We want to harness that power 
 
 and make sure we are creating good jobs and supporting working class families in both our countries. 
 
And that growth is shared broadly, and no one gets left behind. So today, we are releasing a new plan to equip our economic partnership for the 21st 
 
 century. It outlines how we can enhance our cooperation to accelerate the clean energy transition, that must take place and is taking place. Lead the 
 
 development of emerging technologies that are going to shape so much of our future, and protect technologies critical to our national security. 
 
And a key piece of that is working together to strengthen our critical minerals supply chains, and to make them more resilient so we are not 
 
 dependent on any one country to meet our goals. When it came -- when it comes to technology that will shape the future like semiconductors, quantum 
 
 computing, artificial intelligence, the U.K. and the U.S. are working together to make sure they are developed safely and responsibly and 
 
 jointly. 
 
We're going to do more on joint research and development to ensure the future we're building remains fundamentally aligned with our value-set in 
 
 both our countries. And, we're doing more to prevent technologies that are invented and developed in our countries from being used for military or 
 
 intelligence purposes by countries that do not share our values. 
 
Today, we will also discuss our unwavering support for the people of Ukraine, and defend -- who are defending themselves against the most brutal 
 
 aggression we've seen in a long time at the hands of Russia and Putin. The U.K. and the United States together with more than 50 partners have 
 
 committed historic levels of security assistance to Ukraine.
 
And I want to thank the prime minister for his strong leadership, contributing significant amounts of security assistance and training 
 
 Ukrainian troops, so they can effectively use the equipment and ammunition we've collectively provided, and I'm bringing the world together later this 
 
 month to drive support for Ukraine's long-term economic recovery. 
 
You're doing a great deal. So Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for making the journey to Washington, earlier this week, we marked the 79th Anniversary of 
 
 D-Day. And time, a reminder of a proud history our nations share, and the values, the values that we have long stood together to defend. That's the 
 
 unshakable foundation of this special relationship, and it is a special relationship.
 
There is no country closer to us than Great Britain. Today, as NATO allies, partners in innovation, as friends in a shared vision of the future, and 
 
 the two nations -- our two nations ready to meet the challenges of our time and meet them together. And I'm confident the United Kingdom and United 
 
 States will continue to lead the world towards greater peace, prosperity and security for all. So thank you again Mr. Prime Minister, and the floor 
 
 is yours. 
 
SUNAK: Thank you Mr. President. And before I begin my remarks, a word if I may on what happened in France this morning. All our thoughts are with 
 
 those affected by this unfathomable attack, including a British child and with their families. I've been in touch with President Macron, and we stand 
 
 ready to offer any assistance that we can. 
 
Mr. President, Joe, it is an honor to be here at the White House, and thank you for your very warm welcome. Not for decades has the relationship 
 
 between our two nations been so important. The values we share, our belief and freedom, democracy, and the rule of law have never changed. They never 
 
 will. But what has changed are the challenges that we face. 
 
And standing here together as our predecessors have done for generations, I feel confident that through the strength of our relationship, we can shape 
 
 the world once again in our pursuit of liberty, prosperity, and the possibilities of a new age. And that begins with our highest priority, 
 
 national security. 
 
Last time, I was here in the U.S., we signed AUKUS, the most significant defense partnership in generations. Because we recognize that the security 
 
 of the Atlantic and Pacific regions are indivisible. And just a fortnight ago, in Hiroshima, President Biden and I stood with President Zelenskyy and 
 
 our G7 allies in a powerful display of unity. 
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
The U.K. is proud of our contribution including providing tanks, long-range weapons and training Ukrainian soldiers. But let no one doubt, U.S. 
 
 leadership and resources are the decisive contribution allowing the forces of democracy and freedom to prevail. As I said in Congress, and I say again 
 
 now to President Biden, and to the American people, thank you. 
 
And just as we collaborate to protect our national security, so must we increasingly do the same to protect our economic security on which our 
 
 prosperity depends. Countries like China and Russia are willing to manipulate and exploit our openness, steal our intellectual property, use 
 
 technology for authoritarian ends or withdraw crucial resources like energy. They will not succeed. 
 
Today, we have agreed the Atlantic Declaration, a new economic partnership for a new age of a kind that has never been agreed before. Yes, a 
 
 partnership that protects our citizens, but more than that, a test case for the kind of re-imagine the alliances President Biden has spoken so 
 
 eloquently about. 
 
That means new investment, this week alone 14 billion pounds of new American investment has been committed into the U.K., creating thousands of 
 
 jobs, it means stronger supply chains with a new action plan on clean energy. And it means reducing trade barriers and the technologies of the 
 
 future, with a new secure U.K.-U.S. data bridge, helping tens of thousands of small businesses. 
 
An agreement to work towards mutual recognition of more professional qualifications in areas like engineering, and we're launching negotiations 
 
 on a new critical minerals agreement. Once concluded, this will give U.K. companies stronger access to the U.S. market. And we're building on our 
 
 extraordinary shared strengths in cutting edge future technologies, with joint research collaboration in areas like quantum, semiconductors and A.I. 
 
Now, our job as leaders is to ensure that this technological revolution makes us more secure and not less. Last week, the pioneers of artificial 
 
 intelligence warned us about the scale of the challenge, as well as the opportunity. The U.S. and the U.K. are the world's foremost democratic A.I. 
 
 powers. So today, President and I agreed to work together on A.I. safety, including multi-laterally. 
 
Now, the U.K. looks forward to hosting the first global summit on A.I. safety later this year. So that we can seize the extraordinary 
 
 possibilities of this new technological age and do so with confidence. And we are well placed to do so. I know some people have wondered, what kind of 
 
 partner Britain would be after we left the EU.
 
I'd say, judge us by our actions, we're committed to our values as ever, as reliable an ally as ever, as attractive and investment destination as ever, 
 
 but we're changing too. We're strengthening our relationships, not just with old friends like America and in Europe, but with new friends in the 
 
 Indo-Pacific too, and we now have the freedom to regulate the new technologies that will shape our economic future like A.I. more quickly and 
 
 flexibly. 
 
That is the future that we are creating in Britain. Confident, proud, and free. And let me close with a personal reflection. And Joe mentioned, he 
 
 and I have seen quite a lot of each other in recent months. I gather our wives have even started to take spin classes together. And we were talking 
 
 earlier about our hometowns, Joe is very rightly proud of Scranton, and I was telling him a little bit about Southampton in England where I am from. 
 
Now, not everyone knows this, but it was in a church in Southampton where in the days before he set sail for these shores, that John Winthrop first 
 
 spoke about his dream of building a city on a hill. And that reminds us that the relationship between our two nations is unlike any other. Our 
 
 alliance is so strong because it is not abstract, it is rooted in our people. 
 
And it's never been about our history alone, but about our ability to grasp the future. We share the same beliefs, pursue the same purpose, and act 
 
 according to the same ideals. And that's why today, as we meet the challenges of our time, we can depend on each other with absolute 
 
 conviction. When the United States and the United Kingdom stand together, the world is a safer, better and more prosperous place. And that's why ours 
 
 is the indispensable alliance. Thank you. 
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
BIDEN: Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. All right. First question goes to James of the Financial Times. Unless he left.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you, Mr. President. I appreciate the question. With -- you spoke about your unwavering support for the people of Ukraine. 
 
 So much of that depends on funding from the U.S. Congress. And now with the counteroffensive underway, when do you expect to return to Congress and ask 
 
 for new funding? And how much do you expect you will need? And do you think that Speaker McCarthy will agree to it, given some skeptical comments that 
 
 we heard earlier this week?
 
BIDEN: No, not sure. And yes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And to Prime Minister Sunak, you spoke earlier this week about the importance of finding long-term security arrangements and 
 
 agreements for the defense of Ukraine for many years ahead. Do you think that -- have you found a common position with President Biden on that 
 
 issue? What's your preferred model for a long-term security agreement with respect to Ukraine? And does it need to be sorted out before the Vilnius 
 
 summit? Thank you.
 
BIDEN: Let me begin by answering your question. First of all, the Ukrainians should speak to the military operations, I won't do that from 
 
 here. We've done everything we could collectively, but individually in the United States, to make them ready, to support that it will -- that it's 
 
 going to continue, and an evolving situation that we're -- where we're very optimistic.
 
In talks with the Ukraine and Ukrainians and particularly with Zelenskyy and our allies and partners, on commitments to Ukraine, long-term security, 
 
 long-term security to deter future aggression after this war ends is the goal. And we're advancing this goal by providing them the support Ukraine 
 
 needs now on the battlefield and helping them strengthen their military over the long term.
 
The fact of the matter is that I believe we'll have the funding necessary to support Ukraine as long as it takes. And I believe that we're going to -
 
 - that that support will be real, even though there are -- you hear some voices today on Capitol Hill about whether or not we should continue to 
 
 support Ukraine and for how long we should support them.
 
The fact of the matter is I asked people to picture what would happen if we were not supporting Ukraine. Do we think Russia would stop in Kyiv? Do you 
 
 think that's all there would be happening? I think not, and I think the vast majority of my colleagues, even the critics, think that would not be 
 
 the case as well. There's much more to say about Ukraine, but I hope that answers your direct question.
 
RISHI SUNAK, PRIME MINISTER OF THE UNITED KINGDOM: James, thank you for the question. If I might actually touch on your first question first. And so 
 
 it's actually entirely reasonable for the American people to hear what I say and hopefully acknowledge the thanks that we have for their support of 
 
 the situation in Ukraine, but also ask if everyone is doing their bit. And that's why, as I said, the U.K. is proud to be, behind the U.S., the 
 
 biggest contributor to the military effort in Ukraine.
 
And I think it's right that other countries also step up and do their part. We're lucky to have America's investment in European security, but we need 
 
 to share the burden alongside you, which is why defense spending in the U.K. has -- was been above the 2 percent NATO benchmark. It's on an 
 
 increasing trajectory, and we would encourage other countries to follow the lead that the U.S. and the U.K. set, because our security is collective.
 
I think the other thing for you to know about us as an ally is we also view security as indivisible between the Euro-Atlantic region and the Pacific. 
 
 That's why the AUKUS partnership is so important. That's why we're strengthening our engagement and alliances in that region, too, so that the 
 
 U.S. can count on the U.K. as a partner and an ally, sharing the burden but also working together in every sphere that it matters.
 
And on your latter question, I agree with what the President said, it's about deterrence. President Putin will be thinking that he can wait us out, 
 
 that the Alliance will tire, we'll get fatigued, and we'll give up.
 
Now, that is not the case. And the more we can put in place support for Ukraine, not just in the here and now, but support that will last for a 
 
 time and for years to come, I think it sends a strong signal to him that there is no point in trying to wait us out. We're not going anywhere. We 
 
 will be here for as long as it takes. And hopefully that will speed up the calculation in his mind that he should withdraw his forces and stop what is 
 
 an illegal and unprovoked act of aggression.
 <br>[14:35:14]
 
BIDEN: Also, if you don't mind my making an addendum, I'd point out that not only do we have Europe responding, I spent a lot of time in Japan. The 
 
 Japanese have stepped up. They've stepped up in terms of their budget. They've stepped up in terms of their involvement. They've stepped in -- 
 
 stepped up in terms of their support for Ukraine, realizing that an inva -- a glaring invasion, with no pretext by anything other than conquering land, 
 
 occurring in the 21st century is a danger not only in Europe but everywhere in the world. The next question from the PBS NewsHour, Laura.
 
LAURA BARRON-LOPEZ, WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT, PBS NEWSHOUR: Thank you, Mr. President.
 
BIDEN: I think you're going to steal the mic. That's why they're --
 
BARRON-LOPEZ: Yes, they're holding on to it. Laura Barron-Lopez with the PBS NewsHour. All over the country, Mr. President, Republican-led states 
 
 are passing laws -- passing anti-LGBTQ, anti-transgender laws that restrict rights and medical care. Intimidation is on the rise. This week, anti-LGBTQ 
 
 protestors turned violent in California.
 
And also recently, I spoke to the parents of a transgender girl in Texas who told me that they're afraid and that they are considering leaving not 
 
 just their state, but the country. Sir, why do you think this is happening? And what do you say to parents, like the ones that I spoke to, to those 
 
 families who are contemplating leaving the country because they don't feel safe anymore?
 
And then, Prime Minister Sunak, thank you. You mentioned that AI has been a key part of your visit. What are the U.S. and the U.K. -- what is the U.K. 
 
 doing with the U.S. to protect elections and democracy from AI-generated disinformation campaigns waged at scale by foreign actors?
 
And you also mentioned the warning letter sent by AI leaders about the potential threat that this technology, if misused, can pose to humanity. 
 
 How is regulating artificial intelligence going to be any different than what has been done at the global scale, so far, to deal with climate 
 
 change, another existential threat?
 
BIDEN: Let me answer your first question. First of all, maybe quietly when we finish this, you can give me the number of that family, and I will call 
 
 them and let them know that the President and this administration has their back. And I mean that.
 
Look, as President, I was proud to end the ban on transgender troops in our military, sign the Respect for Marriage Act, strengthen the civil rights 
 
 protections for LBGT Americans, and advance LGBT human rights around the globe.
 
But our fight is far, far from over because we have some hysterical and, I would argue, prejudiced people who are engaged in all of what you see going 
 
 on around the country. It's an appeal to fear, and it's an appeal that is totally, thoroughly unjustified and ugly.
 
It's wrong for that a person can be married in the morning in the United States and fired in the afternoon by their employer because they are -- 
 
 they're gay. It's wrong that the violence and hate crimes targeting LGBTQ people is rising. It's wrong that extreme officials are pushing hateful 
 
 bills targeting transgender children, terrifying families, and criminalizing doctors.
 
These are our kids. These are our neighbors. It's cruel and it's callous. Not somebody else's kids, they're all our kids. They're the kids -- and our 
 
 children are the kite strings that hold our national ambitions aloft. It matters a great deal how we treat everyone in this country.
 
And the fact is that I'm announcing today a series of new initiatives that we're taking to protect the LGBT community. I was going to do this at the 
 
 fore out on South Lawn. We're having Pride Day, but we're going to have to postpone it because of the climate, because of the weather and the 
 
 pollution out there because of the fires.
 
But number one, we're going to strengthen the physical safety, dedicated resources, the federal coordination to better protect Pride celebrations, 
 
 marches, community centers, healthcare providers, and small businesses.
 
Secondly, we're addressing civil rights violations, a new coordinator to protect LGBT students from book bans, which make it harder for kids to 
 
 learn and may violate their civil rights at the same time.
 <br>[14:40:10]
 
We're also engaging in mental health and other supports, more mental health resources and funding to help families support their kids, new efforts to 
 
 protect LGBTQ kids in foster care, and steps to end the absolute end of LGBTQ homelessness.
 
Congress has to pass and I'm not giving up on this. Just like they told me we couldn't get Marriage Act passed. Congress must pass, must pass the 
 
 Equality Act and send it to my desk. LGBTQ Americans, especially children, you're loved, you're heard, and this administration has your back and I 
 
 mean it. We are not relenting one single second to make sure that they're protected.
 
SUNAK: Laura, on your question, it's clear that AI can bring incredible and will bring incredible benefits to society, our economies, to all of us. And 
 
 actually, one of your leading venture capitalists just published a -- an essay on this, which made the point very eloquently yesterday. And it's 
 
 also clear, though, that it does pose very real risks that we, as leaders, need to be cognizant of and put in place the guardrails to mitigate 
 
 against.
 
Actually, President Biden and I had a very good conversation on this just a couple of weeks ago in Japan in one of our sessions in Hiroshima. And we 
 
 are aligned in wanting to discuss with other countries what those guardrails should be.
 
I think here in the U.S., you've convened all the companies together recently, we've done the same in Downing Street just a couple of weeks ago. 
 
 And I think there are a series of measures that we can implement working cooperatively, as we have been discussing, that will ensure that we can 
 
 enjoy the benefits of this technology whilst mitigating against their risks. That's what our citizens would expect.
 
And you talk about climate change. You know, we come together at COP to work multilaterally across multiple countries to bring down carbon 
 
 emissions, to get funding to the countries that need it, to share research on how we can develop the green technologies of the future.
 
Indeed, that's part of our conversations and agreement today, that we need to bring that same spirit of urgency, I think, to the challenges and 
 
 opportunities that AI poses, because the pace of the technological change is faster than people had anticipated. And I think the letter that you 
 
 mentioned kind of reminded us that we do need to work urgently to address this issue. And I'm delighted that Joe and I and others will be doing that 
 
 with all great haste.
 
And I think a couple of questions on our end. Could I call on the BBC?
 
CHRIS MASON, POLITICAL EDITOR, BBC NEWS: Thank you. Chris Mason from BBC News. Prime Minister, your aim as the Conservative Party at the last 
 
 general election was a full free trade deal with America. Isn't the simple truth of what's been announced today an acknowledgement of a failure to do 
 
 that? And to the President, why won't you do a full trade agreement with the U.K.? Thank you.
 
SUNAK: So if you look at what we've announced today, what it does is respond to the particular opportunities and challenges that we face right 
 
 now and into the future. And it asked the question, what do we need to do, working together, that can bring most benefit to our citizens as quickly as 
 
 possible? And our agreement does that. It's a first-of-a-kind agreement that's ambitious in what it seeks to achieve.
 
I think that I've structured around a couple of different areas. The first is economic security, because the challenges we face are much more economic 
 
 in nature, a big subject of our discussions at the G7 recently. And the only way we're going to meet those challenges is to work together to 
 
 strengthen the resilience of our supply chains, to research the technologies of the future together. 
 
And that's what we've announced today, is a partnership that will deepen our cooperation to strengthen the economic security. And that's good for 
 
 all our citizens at home. And those risks have intensified in the past couple of years. I think that's very evident. But it also seeks to build 
 
 prosperity and create jobs in both of our countries. 
 
We've announced billions of pounds of investment into the U.K., which is going to support thousands of jobs. And the agreement that we've struck 
 
 today will continue to do that. It will support tens of thousands of small businesses in the U.K., removing unnecessary red tape so that they can 
 
 trade and do business in the U.S. far easier.
 
And I think those types of specific, targeted measures that will deliver real benefits to people as quickly as possible are the right things for us 
 
 to be focused on. But I think be in no doubt, as Joe and I were discussing earlier, the economic relationship between our two countries has never been 
 
 stronger.
 
The trade is worth hundreds of billions of pounds, or dollars, a year. Over a million of our citizens in each other's countries work in each other's 
 
 companies. We are one of the largest investors in each other's countries, and that trade is growing at something like 20 percent last year.
 <br>[14:45:12]
 
So the relationship is strong, it's booming. But our agreement today focuses on the particular challenges, opportunities of the moment we're in. 
 
 And I think that's the right thing for us both to be focused on.
 
BIDEN: I think we had a really good discussion today about our economic relationship. And we've launched negotiations on critical materials and an 
 
 agreement to deal with climate crisis.
 
For example, there is no reason why Great Britain will not play a major role in not only critical materials but in investing in the United States 
 
 of America and all of our initiatives relating to the need for critical materials, including battery technology and a whole range of things, number 
 
 one.
 
Number two, cooperating on data and AI, it is a limitless capacity and possibility. We -- but we have to do it with great care, not relative to 
 
 one another but relative to the issue. Because when I convened the leaders in AI about I think there were 13 here in the United States, the very 
 
 architects of this AI. They're also very concerned about it getting out of hand, and we got to make sure we're all on the same page.
 
And we're looking to Great Britain to lead that effort this fall in putting together a proposal, a group of nations to deal with how do we deal with 
 
 this. It not only has the potential to cure cancer and many other things that are just beyond our comprehension, but it has the potential to do 
 
 great damage if it's not controlled.
 
And so we're looking for, I'll overstate it, we're looking for watermarks on everything that has to do with produced by AI so we know from whence it 
 
 comes. But there's a lot we have to do. And we're also addressing the national security risk posed by certain types of outbound investments. 
 
I had a discussion with Xi Jinping in China, why was I not transferring certain technological capabilities? And I said, very simply, because you're 
 
 using them for weapons of mass destruction and intelligence intervention. And I said, if we can work out something on that, we'd have a very 
 
 different relationship.
 
So what we're trying to do is figure out how together we can make sure that we have the -- let me back up and say it this way, I don't think ever in 
 
 the history of human endeavor has there been as fundamental potential technological change as is presented by artificial intelligence. It is 
 
 staggering. It is staggering.
 
You have some of these leaders in the industry talking about how they're concerned whether a machine will be able to begin to think for itself, not 
 
 need to be programmed. I mean, it's just -- I know it sounds like science fiction, but it is close to science fiction, some of the things. It has 
 
 enormous potential.
 
And we're looking to Great Britain to help lead that effort, to figure out a way through this. So we're in full total cooperation, because there's no 
 
 one, no country we have greater faith in being able to negotiate this, no - - not negotiate with individuals, negotiate our way through this than the Prime Minister. And so, we are in lockstep.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Last question.
 
SUNAK: Thank you. Last question is the Times.
 
CHRIS SMYTH, WHITEHALL EDITOR, THE TIMES: Thank you. Chris Smyth from The Times. Prime Minister, you've made clear your support for free trade, but 
 
 is today's agreement essentially a recognition that in light of COVID, the growing threat of China, Russia's invasion of Ukraine, that the era of 
 
 unfettered globalization is over? And if so, the U.S. has made clear that it thinks that requires a much more interventionist industrial policy to 
 
 respond to that. Why do you think that approach is wrong for the U.K.? 
 
And, Mr. President, what do you say to those abroad who say that your new Washington Consensus is simply a fancier way of saying, America first? And 
 
 in light of the warm words just now about U.K.-U.S. defense collaboration, particularly in Ukraine, do you think it's time for the first British NATO 
 
 Secretary General in two decades?
 
BIDEN: What's the last part of your question? I'm sorry.
 
SMYTH: Is it time for a British NATO Secretary General?
 
BIDEN: Maybe. That remains to be seen. We're going to have to get a consensus within NATO to see that happen. They have a candidate who's a 
 
 very qualified individual. But we're going to have -- we have a lot of discussion, not between us, but in NATO, to determine what the outcome of 
 
 that will be.
 <br>[14:50:06]
 
And with regard to the first part of your question you wanted me to respond to?
 
SMYTH: It was about: Is the new Washington Consensus that you and your National Security Advisor set out simply another way of saying, America 
 
 first, which some overseas think it is?
 
BIDEN: Well, look, my economic policy is totally consistent with what I think is in the interest of our NATO Allies and our allies around the 
 
 world.
 
One of the things that I decided to do and I find that the Wall Street Journal and I'm sure there is someone here from the Wall Street Journal and 
 
 other publications that are talking about Bidenomics. I didn't realize it was -- I had Bidenomics going.
 
But the bottom line was this, that the fundamental changes taking place in terms of international trade, nobody in at least very few people in United 
 
 States, and I suspect around the world, knew what a supply chain meant, what they're talking about, the supply chain.
 
When we found out during the pandemic that the reason why we couldn't build automobiles was because the outfit that we got our semiconductors from in 
 
 Southeast Asia had shut down because of the pandemic, we realized that I decided that no longer would we rely on one center of support for any of 
 
 the things that are needed for our economic growth.
 
And I made it clear to all our NATO Allies and our partners, as well, that although we were going to generate a for example, an AI capacity here, I 
 
 mean, excuse me, a semiconductor capacity here in the United States, attracting literally several hundred billion dollars in investment, that 
 
 that was available to all of our all of our allies, all of our friends. And they're investing as they -- as we are and benefiting in a similar way.
 
The bottom line here for me is that I think that the world is changing in a way that globalization is still real. But the measure of what we used to 
 
 call in the United States trickle-down economics, where if the -- trickle- down economics resulted in Democratic and Republican administrations for generations in making sure we found the cheapest labor in the world, sent 
 
 the product to -- sent the work to those -- to that neighbor or those neighbors who have the cheapest labor, and they send back their products.
 
Well, I'm not doing that anymore. We're going to make sure that we, in fact, have a flip of that. We're sending capacity, here in the United 
 
 States, we're attracting capacity to build here in the United States to send product overseas, not the reverse. And I know it sounds simplistic, 
 
 but it's working so far. And it's not going to hurt any of our allies or friends in terms of the trade piece of this.
 
Matter of fact, I'm finding they're benefiting from it as well, because they're engaging in it with us. And at home they're doing similar things. 
 
 So that's why we talked about the need to have relationships in terms of certain materials the battery technologies, to share. We rely on Great 
 
 Britain to produce a lot of that for us.
 
So it is increasing trade. But right now it looks like it is because the United States is doing so incredibly well, it makes it looks like it's only 
 
 the United States. It's not. It's just a change in direction in terms of how we view generating economic growth.
 
SUNAK: And just to add to that, I'd say I'm absolutely of the view that the United States, this President does not believe in zero-sum competition 
 
 amongst allies. That's what we declared together with our G7 partners just a few weeks ago in Hiroshima. This is a President and an administration 
 
 that is completely attuned to the needs and concerns of its allies on these issues. And you can see that.
 
Today, as the President said, we are launching negotiations between the U.K. and the U.S. on a critical minerals agreement so that the U.S. can 
 
 provide us with that interaction and cooperation we need. And the Atlantic Declaration that we've announced today just talks about strengthening, 
 
 deepening our cooperation. It's not about looking in and being protection, it's about the exact opposite of that.
 
And it's about strengthening that cooperation across the full spectrum of economic, technological, and other spheres. And that's what you will see. 
 
 You'll see that from the President. You'll see it from me. You'll see the U.K. and the U.S. working even more closely together on all the big 
 
 economic issues of our time, because that's what the moment demands, and that's what our citizens need us to do. And that's what the President and I 
 
 plan to deliver.
 
BIDEN: And it's not just our citizens. Look, the Global South, there are going to be a billion people in Africa very shortly, 1 billion.
 <br>[14:55:05]
 
At the G7, it was originally called Build Back Better World, but we were talking about -- there's a new PPI, anyway, an industrial policy that we're 
 
 all signed on to, to provide the countries in Africa and in the Global South an opportunity to grow, significantly grow, which benefits the United 
 
 States, benefits Europe, benefits every country.
 
Because the reverse is true, if we don't figure a way in which these countries can grow and participate and have to -- and be able to build 
 
 infrastructure, you know, the Canadians, the -- excuse me, the Chinese have a Belt and Road Initiative. Well, the Belt and Road Initiative turns out to 
 
 be a debt and confiscation program. Not going very far.
 
But what we're doing and we're going to be doing with our NATO Allies, with the G7 is providing opportunities. For example, Angola, should be in a 
 
 position very soon to have the largest solar facility in the world, generating significant amounts of energy. It benefits us, benefits them, 
 
 brings them into the 21st century in a way that they'd never been before.
 
We're talking about building and I had my team putting together with other countries as well to build a railroad from the Pacific Ocean from the 
 
 Atlantic Ocean all the way to the Indian Ocean. Never occurred before. How -- we're -- our Departments of Agriculture are working with these 
 
 countries.
 
So there's a significant amount of cooperation, not to hoard capacity, but to expand capacity to further expand opportunity, because we all benefit 
 
 from it. And one thing I've learned is that we are not going to be able to deal with the global warming, which is a consequential single-most 
 
 consequential threat to humanity if we don't do it, unless we engage more together, not fewer, not less together.
 
And so the United States will do what it can do well and invite all of our partners to be part of it if we can. Thank you.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, please remain in your seats as the principals and official delegations depart the 
 
 East Room.
 
BIDEN: I'm supposed to walk off the stage now.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you comment on the bribery allegations against you, President Biden?
 
BIDEN: But wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The bribery allegation. Congresswoman Nancy Mace says there's damning evidence in the FBI file that you sold out the country. Do 
 
 you have a response to the congressional Republicans?
 
BIDEN: Where's the money? I'm joking. It's --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President --
 
BIDEN: It's a bunch of malarkey.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, what do you say to Americans to convince them that they should trust the independence and fairness of the Justice 
 
 Department when your predecessor, Donald Trump, repeatedly attacks it?
 
BIDEN: Because you notice I have never once, not one single time suggested to the Justice Department what they should do or not do, relative to 
 
 bringing a charge or not bringing a charge. I'm honest. Thank you.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: All right, joining us now we have CNN's Jeff Zeleny and CNN global affairs analyst and senior managing editor of the 
 
 Military Times, Kimberly Dozier. Interesting moment there at the end, where he was sort of asked a one off question. Sometimes these two and two news 
 
 conferences don't always give us so many opportunities to hear the answers too many questions. But what were the takeaways for you Jeff?
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: I think at the very end there he was asked about the potential indictment for the former 
 
 President and he said I have not once suggested what the Department of justice should do. And then he said I'm honest, he left it at that and he 
 
 left.
 
So I think that is something, this has really been a pattern for him of not wanting to weigh in on these ongoing investigations which are appear to be 
 
 coming to a head here. But beyond that, I think the President Biden expressed confidence that they would get funding for Ukraine from this 
 
 Congress. Interestingly, the Prime Minister met yesterday with Speaker Kevin McCarthy. We don't know how much of their meeting was this on this 
 
 conversation, but he expressed confidence in that of course.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: And Kimberly to you. Obviously both these leaders have long promised support for Ukraine in the long term and yet both of 
 
 them at home are facing political headwinds when it comes to opposition members and even members of their own parties that may be reluctant to make 
 
 that kind of commitment.
 
KIMBERLY DOZIER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: Exactly. We know Biden's facing a general election, but the Conservatives just got pasted in local 
 
 elections this past May, which means they might be calling, they have to call elections by 2025. They're probably going to do it next year.
 <br>[14:59:53]
 
If the Labor Party comes in the U.K. is facing major economic issues, hikes, et cetera. It's likely that the British government will start giving 
 
 less aid to Ukraine and the U.S. might be doing the same thing.
 
END