Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: UC Davis Community On High Alert After 3rd Stabbing Near Campus; Secret Service Turns Away Muslim Mayor From WH Eid Reception; Survey: Nearly A Third of U.S. Nurses Likely To Leave Profession; King Charles III To Reuse Historic Clothing During Coronation; Some Brits Question Spending Money On Glitzy Coronation. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired May 02, 2023 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:32:15]
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Updating our top stories now. 
 
The Biden administration is sending more than 1,500 active-duty troops to the southern border. A major step coming as concerns spike that we will see a massive influx, a bigger one of migrants at the U.S./Mexico border. This, after the Title 42 immigration program ends next week. 
 
At the same time, President Biden and House Speaker Kevin McCarthy announced they are going to meet. One week from today, they will sit down at the White House to discuss the debt ceiling. 
 
That face-to-face comes as the clock ticks towards what could be an economic disaster if they don't come to an agreement. 
 
Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned the U.S. will be out of cash in less than a month if the two sides do not agree to raise the debt ceiling, as they've done dozens of times before. 
 
And today, more than 1,100 film and TV writers are on strike. This, over compensation for their work, specifically on streaming services. You will likely notice the impact on late-night television first. 
 
Sources tell CNN that Jimmy Kimmel and Stephen Colbert will be airing repeats until further notice, starting tonight.
 
Boris? 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Right now, authorities are searching for a killer and students at the University of California, Davis, are on high alert after a third stabbing near campus in just a week.
 
This was the crime scene overnight. Authorities now say a woman is in critical condition after being stabbed multiple times. 
 
It comes after last week two other people were stabbed to death. First, a 50-year-old man at a nearby Central Park. That was on Thursday. A U.C. Davis student at Sycamore Park on Saturday night. Police have made no arrests and have not named any suspects. CNN national correspondent, Nick Watt, has been following the story
 
 for us. 
 
Nick, bring us up to speed on the manhunt. 
 
NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We are just hearing from the chief of police right now. He is still talking, taking questions. 
 
Basically the manhunt rolls on. They have not identified a potential suspect here. They have not definitively connected these three crimes.
 
Although we are now getting a bit more of a picture of what happened. The first murder, the first victim found Thursday morning. The second victim murdered Saturday night. 
 
The police chief said, in both cases, the stab wounds inflicted on these two men didn't suggest a robbery. It was not one or two stab wounds. He said these attacks were particularly brutal with many and significant injuries. That's the connection between the first two. 
 
We also have descriptions of the suspect from the murder Thursday night and the attack last night. 
 <br>[14:34:58]
 
Apparently, last night, the suspect was interacting with a number of people before stabbing this woman in her tent. And according to the chief, the suspect did not really seem to care that people might be able to identify him. 
 
The police right now are working on a sketch. But we are told the suspect they are looking for is average height, thin, pale complexion, but with long, dark, curly hair. That seems to be the most identifying factor right now. 
 
In terms of the town, well, the police chief says, listen, people are right to be scared. He advised people to institute a buddy system. Don't go out alone at night. All of these attacks, so far, have happened at night. 
 
The chief was asked if he would, perhaps, introduce a curfew. He said that would be an extraordinary measure that would shut down the city. We are not quite ready yet. 
 
Also, he said a curfew would take a lot of policing to enforce. And right now, they are upping patrols. They are trying to keep as many officers as possible on the manhunt. 
 
The FBI is also involved. And the local police say they hope they will get criminal profilers from the FBI involved to try and figure out if what they are looking at here is a serial killer. 
 
Back to you -- Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: Nick, tell us about the victims. One of them was known in the community for his compassion. WATT: Yes, this was a guy who the chief says was a homeless man who
 
 was well known in the community. He would walk around town asking people on their views about compassion. This was his passion in life. 
 
The other victim, the other man who was murdered, a 20-year-old student, computer science student that was going to graduate in a few weeks. His family moved to California from Lebanon a few years ago looking for safety. He's now dead. 
 
Didn't manage to graduate. The family now not celebrating a graduation, but mourning a son. 
 
While the manhunt for the killer goes on and the people in the town remain very, very scared. 
 
SANCHEZ: Tragic stories coming to an end there. 
 
Nick Watt, keep us updated with the latest. Thank you. 
 
Jessica?
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN HOST: The mayor of Prospect Park, New Jersey, is slamming the Biden administration after the Secret Service blocked one man from the White House celebrating the end of Ramadan.
 
The mayor, who is Muslim, says he was notified he would not be allowed to attend just half an hour before he was set to arrive yesterday. He told CNN he believes he was denied because of racial profiling. 
 
CNN's Danny Freeman is joining us now live from New Jersey.
 
And, Danny, the mayor is at a press conference alongside Muslim leaders in his state. What else is he saying today? 
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I can tell you I just left the press conference that's still going. It started about 15 minutes ago.
 
I've got to be honest, like you said, there are Muslim leaders in New Jersey and Mayor Mohamed Khairullah in that press conference right now.
 
And they are very upset because they believe genuinely this is an example, as you said, of racial profiling. And they are calling on the White House from getting away in using any sort of watch list or no fly list in this country. 
 
Let me rewind for a second and just explain to viewers how we got to this point.
 
So yesterday, there was an event at the White House to celebrate Eid and the end of Ramadan. There were, according to the White House, almost 400 people in attendance at that event and many of them Muslim and elected leaders who are also Muslim. 
 
But then Mayor Khairullah, he said, just 30 minutes before the event, he got a phone call from the White House saying the Secret Service barred him from the event and he was no longer able to attend. 
 
The Secret Service did confirm to CNN that he was told that he was barred for this event. The Secret Service nor the White House offered any explanation as to why. 
 
Pretty much right after that, in New Jersey, where we are right now, they released a statement, calling this an affront to the Muslim community.
 
And the mayor said on CNN this morning that this is an example of targeted harassment of Arabs and Muslims by the federal government. 
 
His explanation, his thought is that the belief is he was put on a watch list back in 2019, when he was questioned at the airport for maybe having contact with terrorists. He said obviously that's not true. 
 
Listen to what he said in the press conference. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR MOHAMED KHAIRULLAH (D-PROSPECT PARK, NJ): I have no reason to believe that I am an unsafe person to any elected official. I have been around with elected officials from a national level all the way to school board level and I have supported many of them. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FREEMAN: At this point, the White House is still pushing all questions about this incident to the Secret Service. 
 
Well, in a statement, the Secret Service says they regret any inconvenience that may have been caused to this mayor. But still, they were not giving any explanation as to why this mayor was banned from this particular event. 
 <br>[14:40:02]
 
But again, the community members in New Jersey are not letting the attention on this incident go away. They are still hoping for at least a call or apology from the White House -- Jessica? 
 
DEAN: Yes. The White House press secretary just saying this remains under review by the Secret Service. 
 
Danny Freeman, for us, thank you so much. 
 
Jim?
 
SCIUTTO: Rockets fired from Gaza towards Israel after a prominent Palestinian detainee died in an Israeli prison. We will have an update on the rising tensions there. 
 
A new survey shows nurses are so unhappy with their jobs they are thinking of quitting altogether. This is a real crisis, a real shortage. We will be talking about it coming up. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:45:08]
 
SANCHEZ: Now to some of the other headlines we are watching this hour. 
 
A barrage of at least 22 rockets were fired today from Gaza towards Israel. The Israel military said four of the rockets were intercepted and 16 of them falling in open areas injuring at least three people. 
 
The rocket bombardment comes after the death of a Palestinian prisoner who died inside an Israel jail after a long hunger strike. 
 
In the meantime, in Nepal, an American climber died while trying to reach the summit of Mount Everest. Expedition organizers say that Jonathan Sugarman, of Seattle, began to feel sick and passed away. 
 
He's the fourth person to die on Mount Everest this year as authorities in the fall issued a record number of permits in 2023 for climbing hoping to scale the world's tallest peak. 
 
And take a look at this dramatic ocean rescue just off the coast of Tampa, Florida. Manatee County deputies pulling a father and his young son from the Gulf of Mexico after they were swept away from shore by strong rip currents and had to be rescued more than 100 yards away from the beach. 
 
A close call there -- Jim? 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, those are scary moments. I've been in it before. 
 
A crisis in nursing is upon us. That warning comes amid important new data from a nationwide survey of registered nurses, many thinking about leaving the profession altogether now. They say their work is much less satisfying and much more stressful. 
 
CNN senior medical correspondent, Elizabeth Cohen, joins us now. 
 
Elizabeth, we've been hearing about this. We hailed them during the pandemic. They worked so hard. And they really put their lives on the line here. But it just seems exhaustion reigns now. 
 
Tell us how we got here and what the data shows. 
 
DR. ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Jim. This was really a problem. Nurse morale was really a problem before the pandemic. And it got much, much worse during the pandemic. 
 
This is a huge survey of 18,000 nurses. Let's take a look at what they found. 
 
They found that 30 percent of them said they are likely to leave nursing and they really blamed the pandemic for that because of the workload and the way they were treated by many patients. 
 
They also said 40 percent of the patients said that they felt burnt out. This is terrible news for nurses and also the rest of us because they rely on them -- Jim? 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. If you ever had anybody ill, it's the nurses you deal with more often than the doctors. 
 
What kind of solutions are being talked about here? 
 
COHEN: So the group that did this survey, they had several different suggestions. One of them, they said, was they need to reduce patient loads. That was one of the big complaints. 
 
Nurses said they just don't have enough time to be one-on-one with their patients. They said you could pay nurses better.
 
And they also said that there needs to be a safer working environment, especially during the pandemic. 
 
Nurses were attacked sometimes by angry patients, and they said hospitals and employers needed to do a better job protecting them -- Jim? 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, a lot of disinformation drove some of those attacks.
 
Elizabeth Cohen, thank you so much.
 
Jessica? 
 
DEAN: We are days away from the coronation of King Charles III. New details are trickling out about all the pomp and circumstance. We will bring you those details, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:52:51]
 
DEAN: Britain is counting down to Saturday's coronation of King Charles III. We're learning more about the painstaking preparations underway to crown the new monarch. Including what King Charles will be wearing. These pieces of historic clothing from the royal collection. 
 
CNN's Anna Stewart is in London to tell us more about them. 
 
Anna, these were created in the early 1800s. We're told they were worn by his grandfather and also his mother. A lot of history there. 
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN: And as you look at the imperial mantle, which is this big robe, it's gold, it's silver, it's silk, it's embroidered with flowers on it. 
 
That actually dates back to 1821. It was made for George IV's coronation. So I believe that's King Charles' great, great, great grandmother's uncle. We're going way back now.
 
That mantle and also the gold tunic you see, which actually goes under the mantle, very glitzy. Both of those often reused for coronations. 
 
But just what's interesting is looking at some of the other items, some of the other vestments, like the coronation glove, the coronation sword belt, those are being reused, which is more unusual. He's reusing those from his grandfather, George VI. 
 
We're told King Charles has decided to do this in keeping with his long-term commitment of sustainability and also efficiency, trying to keep some of those costs down. 
 
DEAN: And, Anna, that's one thing. We know the coronation is, of course, a very religious event. It is glitzy. It is full of pageantry, as you're showing us right now. 
 
But there are some Brits who are questioning how much it will cost and if it's worth it. 
 
STEWART: And I think there would be a lot of criticism if they spun new gold robes for this coronation, particularly given, not just the modern era we're in, but also the economic climate. 
 
In the U.K., inflation is still above 10 percent. We've had 11 interest rate hikes from the central bank in a row. People are struggling financially. 
 
And there is some criticism already actually about this coronation and how much it will cost just in terms of the security bill for the taxpayer. Estimates from British media outlets between $63 and $125 million. 
 
And if you consider, of course, last year, there were pretty expensive royal events. We had the late queen's Platinum Jubilee, a huge event, and then very sadly, of course, her funeral as well. 
 <br>[14:55:08]
 
So over 12 months, it's been a pretty expensive year in terms of royal events. 
 
That said, I have to say, after this coronation, you have to wonder when the next big event will be. Will it be the jubilee in another 10 years? 
 
I was thinking maybe royal wedding. But Prince George is only turning 10 this year. So I feel like we'll have to wait a bit longer. 
 
DEAN: I think it will be a while for Prince George. 
 
All right. Anna Stewart, for us in London, thanks so much. 
 
And don't forget, you can celebrate the coronation of King Charles III with CNN. Watch history in the making inside Westminster Abbey and along the procession. It all begins Saturday morning at 5:00 a.m. right here on CNN. 
 
Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: New developments still ahead in the seditious conspiracy trial of members of the Proud Boys. The jury now asking the judge what to do if they cannot unanimously agree on a verdict. The very latest from that and many more stories when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)