Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Israel: Release & Temporary Truce Delayed; Aid Trucks Line Up at Rafah Crossing Ahead of Truce; Blinken Speaks with Qatar on Next Steps to Implement Truce Deal; FBI: Car Explosion at Canadian Border Not Terrorism. Aired 6-6:30a ET

Aired November 23, 2023 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Towards the middle portion of the upcoming week. 
 <br>[06:00:02]
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: OK. Allison, thank you so much for that look ahead to Macy's and around the U.S.
 
Now, Kentucky has declared a state of emergency and is urging residents of Livingston to evacuate their homes after a train derailment nearby. 
 
The CSX Railway company says at least 16 cars jumped the tracks on Wednesday afternoon. Two cars contained molten sulfur, which spilled and is burning. The fear is that that could lead to the release of sulfur dioxide. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control says the chemical can cause irritation and breathing difficulties. 
 
And the railway has sent air-monitoring equipment to that area.
 
The other thing we are watching today, all eyes on Qatar, because the deal or the truce between Israel and Hamas was delayed. It was meant to happen today. It's apparently happening tomorrow. We're waiting for confirmation from Qatar. So you'll have more on that in the coming hour. 
 
Thank you for joining me here, Max Foster. Have a wonderful Thanksgiving. CNN THIS MORNING starts right now. 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome to a special holiday edition of CNN THIS MORNING. Happy Thanksgiving to those who celebrate here in the U.S. Happy Thanksgiving. Glad to have --
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR: Happy Thanksgiving, my friend. Always great to be with you.
 
HARLOW: -- Erica Hill by my side. And I am you.
 
Let's get started with "Five Things to Know" for this Thanksgiving day. Here's where we start. 
 
Israel says Hamas's hostages will not be released until tomorrow, but any moment, we could get word from Qatar on when that truce will begin. 
 
HILL: So all of this, of course, means another agonizing day for the families of those hostages who are waiting. A source says the U.S. does have a working list of the hostages they believe will be released first, and on that list, Abigail Edan, who turns 4 tomorrow. 
 
Actor Jamie Foxx is being sued for sexual assault and battery. The plaintiff says it happened in a New York City restaurant in 2015. 
 
HARLOW: A fiery explosion shuts down a border crossing between the U.S. and Canada after a speeding Bentley hit a median and burst into flames. Wait until you see more of that video. The driver and his wife killed, but the FBI says it was not terrorism. 
 
HILL: And officials say there are no specific threats around the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, but they do warn of a heightened threat environment. 
 
Snoopy and the gang are going to kick off the festivities in about 2 1/2 hours. 
 
CNN THIS MORNING starts right now. 
 
HARLOW: We begin this morning with team coverage from Tel Aviv to Cairo to the White House. And the release of hostages in Gaza has been delayed this morning, and right now we are tracking fast-moving developments about when it may actually happen. This morning, Qatar is getting ready to announce when that four-day truce will start. 
 
HILL: Israeli officials are now saying the pause in fighting and the release of hostages will not start until at least tomorrow. A diplomatic source says the earliest timing for that truce would be midnight, local time. That's 5 p.m. Eastern.
 
We're also told the Biden administration has a working list of ten hostages who could be let go in this deal, ten American-Israeli hostages.
 
Meantime, the fighting continues to rage in Gaza. Israeli troops, tanks and drones still striking targets ahead of this anticipated truce. 
 
HARLOW: Part of the deal that is key is allowing more humanitarian aid into Gaza. This morning, we are seeing convoys of trucks loaded with supplies lining up at the border crossing in Egypt. 
 
Qatar says its prime minister spoke with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on the phone today to talk about steps to implement this truce agreement. 
 
So let's begin our coverage with Oren Liebermann. He joins us in Tel Aviv.
 
Oren, what do we know about the release, how this might work, and when, crucially, this truce begins? OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, it's important to say right
 
 at the top here that even if there is a delay in the implementation of the agreement, in no way does it mean the agreement and the pause in the fighting, the release of the hostages has fallen apart. 
 
It is every expectation that that moves forward. The question, of course, is when. It was expected to happen today until we got the notification from Israel's security council that it would not happen before tomorrow, as they work out the final logistical details. For example, the routes and locations of how the hostages would come out.
 
In terms of how that process will work, after there is a pause in the fighting and the hostage release begins, the Israeli hostages will be transferred from Hamas to the Red Cross. The Red Cross will then transfer them out of Gaza through a number of different ways. Either through Rafah in the South of Gaza or straight into border crossings into Israel. 
 
From there, they will be transferred into the arms of the IDF. For those hostages released who are younger than 12, their families will meet them as quickly as possible. 
 
For those hostages released above 12 years old, they will meet their families at the hospitals. 
 
And that, of course, is the next step when they come out of Gaza, taking them as quickly as possible to several designated hospitals across the country for immediate treatment and evaluation to see how they were doing and to begin the process of recovery.
 <br>[06:05:05]
 
Of course, if and when that process begins tomorrow, that's only for about 10 to 12 of the hostages. So many more still waiting for that first group of 50, and that still leaves nearly 190 more hostages and their families who are waiting for word on how this plays out after that initial group. 
 
HILL: We're also learning that the IDF may have arrested the director of Al-Shifa Hospital. What more do we know about this? 
 
LIEBERMANN: This we learned a short time ago, and we're waiting for more details, but we do know from the ministry of health in Gaza that Mohammad Abu Salmiya, who is the director of Al-Shifa Hospital, the largest hospital in Gaza, was arrested earlier today. 
 
We don't have a specific confirmation of that from the IDF, but a spokesman who came on our air a short time ago says it's logical that he needs to be questioned. 
 
What charges he is held under, how long he will be questioned or detained for, or whether he'll be held for a longer period, all of that unclear. We are pressing for answers at this point. 
 
Al-Shifa hospital, of course, not only one of the last hospitals to remain functioning, where we saw premature babies being treated and thousands of people taking shelter there over recent weeks, but also where the IDF's effort is right now after they found a tunnel shaft on the hospital complex and are working to uncover more tunnels as we speak. 
 
HARLOW: Oren, thank you very, very much. We're going to be joined shortly by a spokesperson for the IDF, so key questions on that ahead. Appreciate the reporting. 
 
A large convoy of aid trucks has lined up at the Rafah border crossing between Egypt and Gaza, on standby for when this truce begins between Israel and Hamas. 
 
Our Eleni Giokos is joining us from Cairo. 
 
What do we know about these aid trucks? There was a big -- this was a big part of the negotiation. How many hundreds would be allowed in per day? 
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: From what we understand, it's over 200 aid trucks that are going to be allowed in per day, and we've been seeing this activity over the last 24 hours and going toward the Rafah border. 
 
Our sources on the ground are telling us that these trucks that are loaded with tons and tons of food and water and other medical supplies are going to be absolutely needed for the Gaza Strip. 
 
We've been hearing time and time again about how doctors have been embarking on surgeries without anesthesia, even on some of the amputations, some of the harrowing stories. 
 
And then international agencies are saying they're running out of water and running out of food. 
 
One of the important parts of this deal is, of course, getting fuel into Gaza, which we know since November the 21st. We have seen some fuel entering Gaza to keep those generators on for the hospitals to keep on running. 
 
Of course, that is one of the sensitive topics here, in terms of the breakthroughs in negotiations, because the IDF have time and time again said that, if fuel enters Gaza and enters into the hands of Hamas, that is a big risk. But it goes to the aid organizations, Poppy, and they decide how they will distribute it. 
 
HILL: Speaking of aid organizations, the Red Cross is saying that this morning it's unaware of any deal that would allow the organization to visit hostages in Gaza. 
 
Important to point out this is not at all what we heard from Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday. I just want to play his words quickly. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): The agreement achieved does not include the release of murderers, and it does include the agreement of the Red Cross representatives to visit the hostages and transfer of medication. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: Eleni, any further clarification on this disconnect at this point? 
 
GIOKOS: Yes. I mean, there's a huge disconnect, because the International Committee of the Red Cross says they aren't aware of any such agreement and this is news to them. Very different to what we heard from Benjamin Netanyahu, saying that this is an integral part of the dela.
 
Now, the ICRC says that, if that agreement is made, they would be happy to step in and assist. While they haven't been a part of the negotiations at all, they did help facilitate the release of the other hostages earlier this -- last month. 
 
So this is an important distinction here, that in terms of what we're seeing on the negotiating front. We know the Qataris, Israel, Hamas and the Egyptians are very involved in what we've seen coming through over the last few days. 
 
The aid organizations have said they're not really sure about the amount of aid that's going to be entering, where it's going to go, what kind of safety routes are going to be created. And now this big news on the potential of the Red Cross being able to visit hostages would really be a big move, a big move in the right direction for the hostages that have been trapped inside of Gaza. 
 
And frankly, we haven't heard much news about their status, their health, whether they require medicine. But hopefully, we will be getting more on that. But the ICRC say they're willing to step in if and when needed. 
 
HILL: We'll continue to follow, as well. Appreciate it. 
 
For more now on the White House reaction to this delay. CNN's M.J. Lee joining us live this morning. 
 
So Qatar's prime minister and Antony Blinken, as I understand it, spoke on the phone this morning. What more are we hearing from the White House? 
 <br>[06:10:04]
 
M.J. LEE, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, the White House says that the deal is still on, even though final logistical details are still being figured out. NFC spokesperson saying overnight that we are hopeful that the implementation will begin Friday morning. 
 
What a senior U.S. official tells me is that more time was needed to iron out details like the location of each of the hostages and also just the logistics of moving each of those hostages, as well. 
 
I'm told that Israel made this decision with Qatar and with Egypt and that the U.S. was consulted and agreed with this decision to delay the release of the hostages by at least a day. 
 
With regards to this idea that Hamas has yet to produce a list of the first ten or so hostages to be released on day one, I'm told over here that that is not a serious issue as of right now. But that it would be more worrisome, guys, if there wasn't a list produced by tonight. 
 
HARLOW: You also have some interesting new reporting this morning, M.J., on the working list of hostages, what the White House believes is going to happen in the first round of ten people set to be released. 
 
LEE: Yes, what I'm told is that the U.S. is -- has a working list of sorts for the hostages that would be released on the first day. So that is about 10 hostages that we are talking about here and that it's really based on the initial ten names of people, rather, that Hamas had given in the earlier stages of the negotiations. 
 
I corrected myself and said not names, because that information was never given by Hamas, as we have been reporting. Information like age and nationality and gender. That's the information that we have been working with so far. 
 
What we don't know, critically, though, is whether any of the three Americans that we've been talking about would be among the first released on the first day. So that includes 3-year-old Abigail Edan. 
 
Now, we are also told that the first two days is being seen as sort of a testing period. They want to see if everything can be implemented, if the hostage release can go correctly. 
 
And then by around day three, that is when negotiations and talks are expected to pick up again to see who could be released after the women and children are out of Gaza. So we're talking about elderly men, foreign national men.
 
And then, of course, the soldiers that are being held hostage in Gaza. Those are believed to be the most difficult categories, people to be negotiated out of Gaza. 
 
HILL: M.J., really appreciate the reporting, as we continue to say every single morning with you. Thank you. 
 
Well, as we do wait for more detail on when the hostages will be released, when this truce will actually go into effect, we're going to ask those questions specifically to a spokesperson from the Israel Defense Forces. Try to get a better picture of what's happening here with this delay. 
 
Also this: a car plows into a border crossing. This happened right near Niagara Falls. It ignited an international incident. Why officials say this was a traffic disaster and not a terror attack. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:16:51] HILL: As Israel and the word wait for safe release of the hostages being held by Hamas, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is praising Israel Defense Forces for their role in getting this deal done.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NETANYAHU (through translator): What brought this framework are two efforts. The first is massive military pressure on Hamas. I'd like to praise the IDF and the Shin Bet in order to create this pressure. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL: Israel's national security council says the first group of hostages will not be released until Friday at the earliest. An Israeli official telling CNN the start of an agreed temporary truce in fighting has, of course, also been delayed until Friday. 
 
Joining us now is IDF spokesman, Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner. 
 
Good to see you this morning, Colonel. I wonder if you could clear up some confusion on a couple of different fronts here. The prime minister had also said on Wednesday that the Red Cross would be allowed in to visit hostages, to bring in any needed medications. 
 
The Red Cross now saying that it has not -- and I'm quoting here -- "been made aware of any agreement to allow the Red Cross in to visit with hostages." 
 
Is there an agreement in place, and has anyone spoken to the Red Cross? 
 
LT. COL. PETER LERNER, IDF SPOKESMAN: So from our -- I would like to say that the expectation is, indeed, is that the International Committee of the Red Cross would be engaged in supplying assistance and adjusting and assisting the well-being of the hostages. 
 
We've been saying that now for seven weeks, and that is what needs to be done. And they also need to be part of the process of the release and of the assessment of the well-being of those not being released. 
 
So absolutely, that is the expectation, and that is what Prime Minister Netanyahu reflected again last night here in Israel. 
 
HILL: But it sounds like, well, you want them to be a part of it. You say that is the expectation. From what we hear from the Red Cross, there has been no communication, specifically with the organization, about this plan. 
 
LERNER: I can't confirm that. That's not really within the realm of my responsibility at the IDF. But that, I think, is the clear expectation from the -- from Israel. 
 
HILL: Can you confirm for us. There have been reports that the director of the Al-Shifa Hospital was arrested while evacuating with a convoy from the WHO, arrested perhaps with other doctors. Was he, in fact, arrested? LERNER: I can't confirm that at this time. I have seen the reports
 
 this morning from Israel that's has been detained. Of course, after the revelations -- and CNN broadcasted it extensively over the last couple of days but even more so last night, with a huge tunnel system beneath the hospital, beneath the Shifa Hospital. 
 
I think there are some questions that need to be asked of this individual. The reality is he denied that they -- that it existed throughout the last six weeks. He's been denying it. And obviously, the reality is quite different from what he said. 
 
So I think, without confirming that he's been detained at this time, it just -- it's reasonable that he should answer some questions. 
 
HILL: So is if your belief that he was aware of these tunnels that you have said have been found? 
 <br>[06:20:03]
 
LERNER: I don't know what to say at this time. Obviously, we've seen throughout the last six weeks that he denied any Hamas presence or tunnels around, in, around, beneath the hospital. We have proven time and time again, but extensively yesterday, the extent of this huge tunnel network that exists beneath the tunnel -- beneath the hospital itself. 
 
And that is why I expect that the situation is that he is being questioned in order to clarify exactly what he did or didn't know. There may be -- you know, he may not have had a choice. He may have been intimidated by Hamas. He may have known. 
 
But the reality proves that he wasn't actually on top of things or he was hiding something. So while I can't confirm that he's been detained, it is reasonable to suggest that there are some -- there are some questions. 
 
I mean, he said to -- to the world media that -- that no tunnels existed, which is proven to be wrong. 
 
HILL: So -- and you don't believe that those tunnels would be there without his knowledge? 
 
LERNER: I find it very hard to believe that the magnitude of this network that exists beneath his own footsteps could be there without the general manager knowing. 
 
HILL: In terms of -- you talk about the magnitude of the tunnels. There has been limited controlled access to journalists. CNN among them. The IDF has also released additional video. 
 
But there has also been talk of this elaborate, as you point out, network of tunnels, talk of a command center. Is there more evidence specifically of a command center that you have that can be released? 
 
LERNER: So as we released yesterday, the more extensive information of hundreds of meters of tunnels that go in every which way beneath the compound, beneath the complex, connecting buildings, escape routes from the buildings, the videos that -- that clearly show the Hamas terrorists coming into the hospital, you know, there is so much incriminating evidence, just realizing that we know that the command control capabilities, the utilization of the -- the protected area of a hospital, in contravention of all human standards and norms, it implies exactly what we've been saying, exactly, throughout the last six, seven -- almost seven weeks now about the Shifa Hospital. 
 
But not only about Shifa. We've revealed that this is the entire concept of operation. Every single hospital we've -- we've found, there is infrastructure, weapons, explosives, RPGs, communications equipment, all taking place from in and around hospitals. 
 
This is the modus operandi of a terrorist -- a merciless terror organization. They're not only merciless towards Israel and the Israelis that have been abducted and held hostage. They're also merciless to the people of Gaza. 
 
HILL: IDF Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner, thank you for joining us. 
 
LERNER: Good day and happy Thanksgiving. 
 
HILL: Thank you.
 
HARLOW: A catastrophic crash triggers a security scare. This happened right near Niagara Falls. Two people were killed. Why officials are, though, ruling out terrorism. 
 
HILL: Also opening up the door to the boardroom drama at OpenAI. How the return of Sam Altman could change the course of the technology itself. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:27:11]
 
HILL: We are learning more this morning about the Rainbow Bridge explosion near Niagara Falls Wednesday, which triggered major concerns at the U.S./Canadian border, left one married couple dead. 
 
The FBI and New York's governor say this was not a terrorist act, but it was a tragic incident. 
 
CNN's Athena Jones is live in Buffalo this morning. So Athena, not terror related. What was it? 
 
ATHENA JONES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Erica.
 
Well, they believe it was nothing more than a tragic accident. This car traveling at a high rate of speed through this border crossing behind me. 
 
But this happened at a time of increased concerns about terrorism, with law enforcement officials in some areas already in a heightened state of alert. What was remarkable about this incident was the speed with which the
 
 FBI was able to conclude its investigation, finding that this massive explosion was not a nefarious act. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOV. KATHY HOCHUL (D-NY): At this time, there is no indication of a terrorist attack. 
 
JONES (voice-over): New York's governor trying to piece together for the public what happened when a car crashed into a secondary border checkpoint at the U.S./Canada border, causing the shutdown of four land crossings on one of the busiest travel days of the year. 
 
In video of the incident provided by law enforcement, you can see a car driving at an extreme rate of speed and jumping a curb and a barrier. 
 
RICKIE WILSON, NIAGARA FALLS TOUR GUIDE: I seen something airborne. I first thought it was an airplane. Looked like slow motion. And I said, my God, it's a car. And it's a vehicle, and it's flying through the air. 
 
JONES (voice-over): Authorities believe the car involved in the explosion was a 2022 Bentley. Sources say the car, coming from the U.S. side of the border on the Rainbow Bridge went through an initial checkpoint just before noon. 
 
Passports and licenses were checked before the car was directed to another area for a secondary search. After the car speeded to that secondary checkpoint, an explosion occurred. Authorities are investigating what caused the massive explosion, which covered the area in smoke for hours. 
 
HOCHUL: This vehicle basically incinerated. Nothing is left but the engine. The pieces are scattered over 13, 14 booths. So it is a large scene. 
 
JONES (voice-over): Authorities have not identified the driver, but law enforcement sources say the driver was a man traveling to Canada with his wife to attend a concert by the rock group KISS but going to a casino in the U.S. instead when that was canceled, investigators believe. 
 
The crash occurred sometime after the couple left the casino, law enforcement sources tell CNN. The couple died in the accident. A Border Patrol employee in a booth was also injured. 
 
The FBI concluded their investigation, saying no ties to terrorism or explosive material was found. 
 
MATTHEW MIRAGLIA, FBI SPECIAL AGENT-IN-CHARGE, BUFFALO, NEW YORK: We feel at this point that this might be just something that occurred. There's no larger picture here to look at. 
 
JONES (voice-over): All movement between the U.S. and Canada halted for hours, leaving holiday travelers stuck. 
 
RYAN SMITH, VISITING NIAGARA FALLS FROM THE U.S.: We came over here hoping to see the falls just for the day. We walked over. Our car is actually in New York.