Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Israel At War; As Israel Prepares For Next Phase Of War, People Of Gaza Escape; "Complete Catastrophe" In Gaza, According To Aid Organizations; Israel Is Cautioned By Biden Not To Occupy Gaza; Interview With UNRWA Director Of Philanthropy And Has Family In Gaza Hani Almadhoun; Lack Of Food And Medical Supplies Among Aid Organizations; Attacks On Gaza Resulted In Deaths Of Over 2,600 Palestinians; IDF Spokesperson On Hamas Attacks; Israel Prepares For "Significant Ground Operations" In Gaza; Interview With IDF International Spokesperson Jonathan Conricus; 155 Hostages Still Being Held By Hamas, According To Israeli Military; China's Strong Comments About Israel; Collaboration Of U.N. and Israel To Create Humanitarian Zone In Gaza; World Shows Support For War's Civilian Victims; Candlelight Vigil in Memory Of Those Killed And Abducted by HAMAS; France And Germany Forbid Pro-Palestinian Demonstrations; Music Festival Survivor Back With IDF Unit; 6-Year-Old Palestinian Muslim Boy Stabbed By Chicago Landlord In Hate Crime. Aired 11p-12a ET

Aired October 15, 2023 - 23:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:00:31]
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Hello and welcome everyone. I'm Michael Holmes, continuing our coverage of Israel at War. And we begin this hour with the latest on the war between Israel and Hamas.
 
Diplomatic efforts now underway to try to contain the humanitarian crisis, intensified by the hour in Gaza. Aid workers say the situation there has descended into what they described as complete chaos. Tens of thousands fleeing after Israel told residents to leave Northern Gaza where more than a million people live as it gears up for its next stage with war with Hamas.
 
And Palestinian officials say, the death toll has surpassed 2,600, that includes 700 children. We do want to warn you, the next video you're about to see might be disturbing. Hand out videos like this showing small children on ventilators in a hospital in Northern Gaza as the U.N. is calling for urgent humanitarian access into the Strip.
 
Meanwhile, America's top diplomat has been meeting regional leaders, including those from Egypt. He once again called on Israel to protect civilians in Gaza.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: As I said in Tel Aviv, as President Biden has said, the way that Israel does these matters, needs to do it in a way that affirms the shared values that we have for human life and human dignity. Taking every possible precaution to avoid harming civilians.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: And for the first time since the conflict began, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas denounced Hamas's attacks on Israel. Saying, the militant groups actions do not represent the Palestinian people. U.S. President Joe Biden, meanwhile, has a warning for Israel in an interview with "60 Minutes," calling for restraint, saying it would be a big mistake for Israel to occupy Gaza. Here's part of that interview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: I think it would be a big mistake. Look, what happened in Gaza, in my view, is Hamas and the extreme elements of Hamas, don't represent all the Palestinian people. And I think that it would be a mistake to -- for Israel to occupy Gaza again. But to go in and taking out the extremist, the Hezbollah is up north, but Hamas down south is a necessary requirement.
 
SCOTT PELLEY, 60 MINUTES HOST: Do you believe that Hamas must be eliminated entirely?
 
BIDEN: Yes, I do. But there needs to be a Palestinian authority. There needs to be a path to a Palestinian state.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Meanwhile aid groups are preparing for the worst as the humanitarian crisis in the region intensifies with each day of the conflict. Those still trapped in the region, and they have no way to leave, continue to search for survivors of airstrikes as their own supplies dwindle. And the director general of the Palestinian Red Crescent says, hospitals face imminent shut down since there's very little fuel left to run generators.
 
Food, medicine, water, also in short supply. Water from Israel has been cut off in the Gaza Strip, people lining up for hours hoping to refill bottles and canisters from what supplies remain.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I've come to get water. We don't have any water. We reached a disastrous situation, below zero. The situation is catastrophic by all standards, with the crisis includes water and electricity. I mean, people can't do anything in the current conditions. If you go to the homes and film inside, you will see extremely dire situations.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: And joining me now to talk more about the conditions in Gaza and the urgent humanitarian appeals is Hani Almadhoun, he is the director of philanthropy for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency. I want to get to the humanitarian situation first, but I do want to say, you do have family in Gaza, more than a dozen have died as I understand it. I can't imagine that loss and how worried you are about other family members. How are they?
 
HANI ALMADHOUN, DIRECTOR OF PHILANTHROPY, UNRWA: Not very good -- first, thank you for having me and given me an appreciate (ph) to share my concerns about the wellbeing of my family.
 <br>[23:05:00]
 
I'm here because, obviously, in personal capacity because of somebody who has family, and a family man in Gaza. Right now, as we speak, they're not doing very well. And I'm happy to elaborate as you ask.
 
HOLMES: Medecins Sans Frontieres put out a statement, and I just want to read from it for you and quote from it. It says this, "Hospitals are overwhelmed. There are no more pain killers now. Our staff tells us about the wounded screaming in pain, the injured, the sick who cannot get to the hospital."
 
I mean, it's so hard to comprehend that situation. No painkillers in a place that is full of wounded people. What is your understanding of the situation for civilians in Gaza or even those who've headed south?
 
ALMADHOUN: It is called like Judgment Day. This is the end of days in Gaza right now. If people can't find water, or if they can't -- they find fuel. You know, my family is not -- is in Northern Gaza, they're unable to evacuate to where the Israelis say will be a safer zone, even though that safe zone was bombed late last night.
 
So, it is not -- there's a lot of confusion. There's a lot of, really, tension in the community because people can't find bread, fighting over a loaf of bread, fighting over some water. And my brother was telling me today in Gaza he hasn't showered in a week. He has not, you know, he's afraid to eat because he would need water. There is very little resources. And, you know, my mom was telling me that kids yesterday, the best they can get for them is dried fruit and dates.
 
This is not humanity. America is better than this, you know. Where the leaders of the free world, and in the first few days the president was, you know, there's a -- you know, drumming the war drums. Trying to religiously be very, you know, in a way verifying the Palestinians here, and we're actually being verified in America and also Palestine where there's a lot of civilians.
 
You're talking in Gaza where 50 percent of the population under the age of 19. They have not had the choice to make a decision, good or bad. They are still children. And this is where we are right now.
 
HOLMES: Yes. There's a lot of talk about Hamas being elected, that was 2007. There hasn't been an election since. And in that election, they were throwing their opponents off rooftops, and half the population wasn't even born. So, yes, that is an important side of this.
 
On the humanitarian side, ANRWA says 400,000 people are in ANRWA schools and buildings right now, which is unimaginable. I mean, there's word that aid could be coming through the Rafah Crossing from Egypt soon, but you know, we don't know when exactly.
 
How urgent is that situation? How desperate for those Gazans who are waiting for it? I can't imagine what those facilities -- we're looking at an ANRWA school right now, actually, and just packed to the gills with people. It's not meant for this.
 
ALMADHOUN: Absolutely. This is tragic. And I don't know how killing 13 honorable (ph) staff who's taken on Hamas. I don't know how targeting ambulances and fire fighter just like 20 minutes ago in Gaza helps take on Hamas. This is a tragedy that could be prevented. Civilians should really be saved from this.
 
You know, I have a family -- I'm going to do a call on this. My family is hiding somewhere in Mashrooh, Beit Lahia up north and we cannot find a way out. And I hope that my mother, my kids, my nephews and nieces are safe. If anybody has an idea on how to get them out of there to a safe zone, please get in touch with me. Please.
 
HOLMES: I can't imagine the stress of that. Now, this is important too, the Hamas -- the terror attack on Israeli civilians is undeniably horrific, inexcusable. But do you worry that Palestinians in Gaza are all being treated as guilty, even when they perhaps don't support Hamas or what it did? You know, many in the world blame all Palestinians for what happened.
 
ALMADHOUN: Yes, absolutely. I mean, there's people who came and this network made genocidal statements, some other networks as well, and nobody pushed back. It feels like our life have less value. And right now, we're back in the administration to get Americans out of Gaza, American citizens out of Gaza. And this is, you know, why they're working hard behind the scenes.
 
Folks, there's a lot of tension, you know. People feel like we're not valued as much. You know, I'm sure you heard about the kid in Chicago who was killed in a hate crime today because their neighbor was, oh, my gosh, the Palestinians are coming.
 
So, there's a lot -- you know, we need to cool it a little bit. You know, Palestinians are not all Muslim. There's Christian Palestinians. I was at the rally at the White House yesterday, hand in hand with Jewish, Christians, and Muslims, and (INAUDIBLE).
 
This is not about Muslims against Jews. As you understand, yes, the attacks against Israel are horrific, sure. But I don't -- you know, we didn't have to have a parade for that and just ignore the Palestinians. How many dead Palestinians do you need? We have 500 kids who are dead or more. By the end of the day, I'm not sure. This is horrific and going to talk about it as much as you ask, yes.
 
HOLMES: Yes, and to that point, I've covered a lot of wars, I've got to say, and including in Gaza. And, you know, it strikes me that one of the risks is that, you know, people become numbers.
 <br>[23:10:00]
 
Are you concerned that the humanity is lost? And in fact, it's over 700 children have been killed. Do you worry that that's just a number and not 700 separate young lives cut short in the minds of too many people?
 
ALMADHOUN: You are absolutely correct. I'm talking to you now and I have lost 16 family members, 14 who are related, and two are, like, from the extended family, and those are just numbers. Because there is the body count is rising, we have not had a moment to reflect on all the tragedies. And that's the horrific, you know.
 
My friend was saying, the best hope we have is be turned into a Facebook meme because nobody has time to bury, nobody has time to grieve. They're not even allowed to gather. They're not safe at the hospital. I live next to a kids (ph) hospital, it was in the news all night. There's bombing around it because they want people to evacuate the hospital. You know, when you're talking about people with open heart surgeries, dialysis machines, I mean, how are you going to -- how is that acceptable?
 
You mentioned UNRWA, my USA affiliation at the beginning. UNRWA schools are being targeted, you know. At least 19 UNRWA, U.N. facilities have been damaged in this conflict. The staff don't feel safe. They're moving from one town to a town. They're trying to help the refugees there with shelter, and you've mentioned the number 400,000 Palestinian refugees.
 
If there's a school, it is not supposed to have shower, you know. There's a lot of complications that are not taken into consideration. Water. This is sort of like a crime. If Russia did it, everybody will be writing on Facebook and all these NGOs will be speaking about it. Now, they are beginning to speak about the atrocities happening in Gaza, but to be honest with you, it doesn't feel like it has teeth. There's a mismatch between the attitude of America and the west and their behavior. What we see in Gaza is horrific.
 
HOLMES: Hani Almadhoun, thank you so much. Appreciate your time and our thoughts are with your family.
 
ALMADHOUN: We appreciate you, thanks for having me.
 
HOLMES: Thank you.
 
OK. We're going to take a quick break here on the program. When we come back, Israel learns more about how Hamas fighters infiltrated the country for their deadly attack. What an IDF spokesperson says it means for their war on the group. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:16:05]
 
HOLMES: U.S. diplomacy is central to hopes for a de-escalation in the war between Israel and Hamas, and the world is watching America's top diplomat. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says, Israel has the right to defend itself, but it should take, "Every possible precaution to avoid harming civilians."
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLINKEN: We came here with four-key objectives. To make clear that the United States stands with Israel. To prevent the conflict from spreading to other places. To work on securing the release of hostages, including American citizens. And to address the humanitarian crisis that exists in Gaza.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Blinken is promising the Rafah Crossing between Gaza and Egypt will be open, it is seen as the only feasible route to get aid in and people out, including Americans.
 
All right. Now, I'm joined by Jonathan Conricus, he's an international spokesperson for the Israel Defense Forces. He joins me from 10 -- Tel Aviv.
 
Lieutenant Colonel, good to see you again. There has been, I think, the same number of bombs or more dropped on Gaza in a week or so as during the entire 50 days of the 2014 Gaza-Israel conflict. What is your assessment of the effectiveness of those strikes in a military sense of, you know, what's been achieved, including who you've taken out of the Hamas leadership?
 
LT. COL. JONATHAN CONRICUS, IDF INTERNATIONAL SPOKESPERSON: Yes, that is a process at work. We are actively targeting the leadership. We are degrading their military capabilities. We are trying to suppress rockets fire towards Israeli cities and civilians. And we are actively stopping or limiting their ability to launch attacks against Israel, mostly on the ground and from the perimeter close to the border.
 
We have been able to strike and kill a few Hamas key officials, many more are on the list. From Yahya Sinwar, the butcher of Khan Yunis, and all the way down to the lowest levels of military commanders. They're all on the list and we are hard at work finding them in their hiding places. Using the best intelligence tools that we have at our disposal, including with the ISA, the Israeli security agency.
 
And at this stage I can say that we're in the early stages. We're operating against an enemy that is cowardly and hides behind civilians. But we are making good progress and we are very determined to continue and to make sure that we dismantle Hamas.
 
HOLMES: You mentioned intelligence. I mean, we've spoken about the IDF's small penetrating missions, if you like, probing missions into Gaza. And there's more information that came out today on what was collected in an intelligence sense. Operational plans, encrypted phones and things like that. What else can you tell us about what was found and how that intel might be useful in a ground incursion?
 
CONRICUS: Yes, I think that what you're referring to is intelligence that was collected based on the terrorists that infiltrated into Israel. And what we have collected from what they carried with them in terms of communication devices, maps, various encryption methods, and other very useful types of -- or sources of information that we are now compiling, analyzing, cataloging, and making sense of. Both for future near term operations and also for long term goals.
 
So, it's been useful and that's usually normal in military affairs that as the dust settles, you're able to collect intelligence and start making sense of what your enemy did.
 
HOLMES: How is the IDF working to find and rescue those hostages? And also, how can you be certain -- I suppose you can't, that hostages are not being held in places that you are bombing or places that you will attack in a ground operation? That must be incredibly difficult.
 <br>[23:20:00]
 
CONRICUS: Yes, this whole situation, frankly, is unprecedented. Never before have we faced such a situation and I don't think that any western country has faced a similar situation. So, it's uncharted territory, but we are very focused on getting every piece of intelligence that we can, formulating a plan, and, of course, eventually getting all of these people home back to Israel.
 
HOLMES: It -- and I'll say this at the outset, it is undeniably true that Hamas hides among the civilian population. It's a fact, intimidates the population, is indifferent to Palestinian civilian deaths and suffering, that's a given. But it was interesting because there is a poll by the Washington Institute, just in July of this year, that said 62 percent of Gazans support of Hamas maintaining a ceasefire with Israel, 50 percent of Gazans agreed that, "Hamas should stop calling for Israel's destruction and instead accept a permanent two-state solution based on 1967 borders," which was a fascinating poll.
 
I'm just curious, from a military standpoint, are you worried that the level of civilian casualties so far will actually reverse that, perhaps increase public support for terror groups like Hamas?
 
CONRICUS: I don't think so. First of all, we will try to keep that number as low as possible throughout this war. We've said that they are not our enemy. I don't think that it will because I think that the Gazans understand that this, all of this destruction and the casualties that are now happening in Gaza is because of Hamas actions. I think even people that were out chanting on the streets and supporting, deep down inside, they understand that what Hamas did was so basically, fundamentally perverted and they understand that they unleashed violence and significant suffering on themselves.
 
So, at the end, what I hope and what our aspiration is that we will dismantle Hamas. And then in the future -- I can't put a timeframe on that, but in the future, the situation in Gaza will be better. First and foremost, for us, that is what I care about, for Israeli civilians living in communities nearby, but also for Palestinians because a Gaza without Hamas is a much better Gaza.
 
HOLMES: I wanted to get your thoughts real quick to this talk of the Rafah Crossing being opened for aid to come in. Does the Israeli military have any objection to that that you know about? And also, a double-barreled question, is there any chance of a ceasefire before your operation is complete?
 
CONRICUS: Yes, I've heard reports about the separate initiatives, direct bilateral or between Egypt and Hamas regarding goods to be provided. I don't have anything to say about it, I know that we tried to facilitate the safe exit of Americans and a few other internationals from Gaza. That was thwarted by Hamas, they simply didn't open the gates and the whole thing failed. And I'm aware of various reports of entering aid, et cetera.
 
At this stage I cannot confirm anything. I know that many are involved in it and it's at the, you know, high priority. But at this stage, I cannot confirm exactly what's going on and what has been decided upon.
 
HOLMES: It's always good to get a situation report from, you Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus in Tel Aviv, thank you so much.
 
CONRICUS: Thank you. Thank you for having me.
 
HOLMES: Now, Israeli troops continue to mass near Gaza ahead of an expected ground offensive against Hamas militants. The last time the IDF went into Gaza to target Hamas leaders directly was 2014. Nic Robertson looks back at the operation then and what Israel is planning now.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voiceover): Close to Gaza, preparations underway for a much-anticipated ground offensive. Troops from different units training together. There is an urgency here. They have to be ready fast.
 
ROBERTSON: Right now, this is a rehearsal if and when there is an incursion, these troops could be at the front of it. Tanks, or for this practice model ones right now, followed by infantry and combat engineers. A combined force spearheading an incursion.
 
ROBERTSON (voiceover): If they do, Major Ofek will be near the front.
 
MAJOR OFEK, IDF TROOP COMMANDER (through translator): We expect to go to war. We expect destroy the terrorist organization Hamas, kill its government, and kill every last terrorist. That's what we plan to do and it is how it will be.
 <br>[23:25:00]
 
ROBERTSON (voiceover): The last time the IDF went into Gaza targeting Hamas leaders was a 2014. Ariel Bernstein was 21, in the special forces one of the first across the border.
 
ARIEL BERNSTEIN, FORMER IDF SOLDIER AND PEACE ACTIVIST: We're just afraid that there is something waiting for you at every corner.
 
ROBERTSON (voiceover): But his experiences then have left him questioning the tactics today. Back then, he says, the IDF wants civilians to leave and Hamas told them to stay, just as is happening now. But some had stayed. His orders, he says, assume the civilians had left.
 
BERNSTEIN: So, whoever you see is basically engaged in fighting or is involved in fighting. And therefore, we call it engaging with fire, with any home you enter, with any kind of shape of a person that you see from afar.
 
ROBERTSON (voiceover): In many ways Israel's actions are playing out just as they have in the past. 2021 gun positions, freshly dug, back in use. In Gaza the civilian death toll, according to Palestinian health officials, already higher than in 2014. And, like then, Israel is already facing huge international pressure to avoid more civilian casualties.
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: What we are doing is saying privately what we have said publicly, which is that all military operations should be conducted consistent with law of war. That civilians should be protected.
 
ROBERTSON (voiceover): The problem, the IDF says it faces just like 2014, Hamas will be hiding among civilians.
 
MAJOR DORON SPIELMAN IDF SPOKESPERSON: The whole situation we're talking about with Gazan civilians forcibly embedded is another element of Hamas. Hamas has to be fully defeated.
 
ROBERTSON: So, the responsibility is on them and not you?
 
SPIELMAN: The responsibility is on Hamas for their own civilians. Our responsibility is to eliminate Hamas's capabilities completely.
 
ROBERTSON (voiceover): Major Ofek pausing during training in a mocked- up Palestinian town says they don't hurt innocents, only terrorists. But admits if he is sent into Gaza, avoiding civilian deaths won't be easy.
 
ROBERTSON: Do you think it's possible to fight Hamas a mosque without civilians getting injured?
 
OFEK (through translator): We're concerned with overthrowing the Hamas regime and killing the terrorists who are currently in Gaza. If it will be difficult, it will be difficult. Not easy.
 
ROBERTSON (voiceover): Outside the camp gates, as Israel's military ponder their next move, troops are saying a fond farewells.
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, Southern Israel.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: China is getting into Middle East diplomacy, but it also has increasingly harsh words about Israel. After the break, we will take you to Beijing for the latest.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:31:28] HOLMES: Welcome back. Aid groups say, conditions in Gaza are deteriorating rapidly. The enclave has been cut off from water, food, and electricity for days now as Israeli airstrikes continue to pound towns and cities. Tens of thousands of Palestinians have already fled from Northern Gaza to the south to escape and expected Israeli ground incursion.
 
Israel's ambassador to the U.S. tells CNN that Israel is working with the United Nations to establish a humanitarian zone in Southern Gaza, though it is unclear what that would look like and how it would be set up. And, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken told reporters earlier that he believes the Rafah Border Crossing between Gaza and Egypt, in his words, will be opened. The Rafah Checkpoint is currently the only viable way in or out of Gaza after Israel declared a complete siege on the territory.
 
And in an interview with CNN's Wolf Blitzer, Israeli President Isaac Herzog said his country is trying to relocate civilians in Gaza to keep them safe. Let's listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISAAC HERZOG, ISRAELI PRESIDENT: We are never, never indifferent to the pain of the -- of our Palestinian neighbors and we always try to operate according to the basic guidance of international law. We are trying to move these citizens away from the war zone in order so that we can go in and uproot that infrastructure of terror.
 
Incidentally, perhaps give hope also that the Palestinians out there so that they can run their life independently in an honorable way, live and let live. But, right now, they are under the suppression of Hamas. And what we are trying to do is to move them to another safe zone so that they won't be hurt, but Hamas is threatening them, stopping them. Hamas has all the fuel, by the way. It's using the fuel to fight us, shoot at us. Hamas has all the water that they need. They're stopping it.
 
Hamas has clear instructions that they have given to their soldiers to basically torture the people in Gaza, that is what we are seeing. And let me tell you another interesting fact, Hamas is the one that with their missiles broke all the electricity wires supplied to Gaza. We are not responsible for their electricity in Gaza, they are.
 
But since they are sending out fake news and libels and stories full of lies, our answer is very clear. We will do whatever it takes that civilians will not be hurt. We are working very closely with the United Nations and other agencies. We are talking to them. We are cooperating with them on the ground. And we are taking our time, therefore, so that civilians will not be hurt.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: China, meanwhile, weighing in on the war between Israel and Hamas. The country's top diplomat says, Israel has now gone beyond self-defense with its actions since the Hamas attack in Israel.
 
CNN's Beijing Bureau Chief Steven Jiang joins me now from the Chinese capital. Tell us more about China's response to this conflict, Steve.
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BIEJING BUREAU CHIEF: Yes, Michael. That line from Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi has gotten quite a bit of tension because some perceive it as Beijing's hardened stance towards Israel as the Gaza humanitarian crisis worsens. But, of course, in these official statements sometimes what is not being said is equally important, if not more important than what is being said.
 <br>[23:35:00]
 
The one word that has been missing in all of China's statement so far, of course, is the word Hamas, even in the initial response to the heinous acts launched by Hamas on October 7th. The Chinese statement barely mentioned the Israeli casualties and same thing in the coverage and the tightly controlled state media. On day one, the state broadcaster CCTV's flash (ph) of newscast barely mentioned any Israeli suffering, instead focused on Palestinian suffering after the Israelis counterattacks.
 
So, all of that, of course, did not go unnoticed by Israel and its allies. Chuck Schumer, the U.S. senate majority leader, was actually visiting China last week when all of this happened with the bipartisan delegation. He told us he made a point of raising this issue, expressing strong disappointment with Chinese Leader Xi Jinping when they met in person. That, of course, has prompted a tweet statement from the foreign ministry later expressing condolences to all civilian victims and condemning violence against all civilians.
 
But despite China's claim of impartiality and their insistence that China has no self-interest and no agenda in this issue, in all of the cause you have seen Wang Yi did with regional powers, not just the Palestinians but also Iran, Turkey, and Saudi Arabia. They very much for highlighting the Palestinian cause, of course something they have championed for decades. And this really is something that's increasingly noticeable as well.
 
Now, all of this, of course, going back to decades when China was trying to be this champion of oppressed people and also long portraying Israel as a puppet state of the United States. So, all of the indoctrination, if you, the messaging has also caused public sentiment to be very much a pro-Palestinian as well. That may explain when one Israeli embassy employee was brutally stabbed in broad daylight on the streets of Beijing last Friday, the day when Hamas called for a global jihad, there was at least initially little sympathy and support for him in Israel on Chinese social media. Michael.
 
HOLMES: All right. Steven thanks so much. Steven Jiang there in Beijing for us.
 
We'll take a quick break. When we come back, people across the world showing their support for the civilian victims of the Israel-Hamas war. We'll show you some of the rallies worldwide.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:40:21]
 
HOLMES: Nine days after Hamas started its devastating assault on Israel, Israelis gathering for a vigil in Tel Aviv on Sunday to remember those who were killed and kidnapped in the attacks. Israel Defense Forces say, at least 1,400 people were killed during the Hamas rampage on October 7th, and the IDF now says, Hamas is holding 155 people hostage.
 
Around the world, people are taking to the streets to show their support for both the Israelis and Palestinians. Jewish communities in the U.S. have held rallies in solidarity with Israel and several western nations have stepped up security at synagogues and Jewish schools.
 
At this gathering in Sydney, Australia, there were calls for peace and justice and condemnation of Israel's military action against Gaza. In other countries like France, pro-Palestinian demonstrations have actually been banned.
 
Let's go to Melissa Bell in Paris. And just tell us about the level of protests around the world, Melissa.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, it has been remarkable to see across the world those protests over the course of those last nine days. And, again, this Sunday, we saw protests in Holland, in Amsterdam, people took to the streets in solidarity with the Palestinians.
 
One arrest, made, Michael, of a man waving a Hamas flag with authorities there trying to make the distinction between apology -- the apology of terrorism and people out supporting the civilians of Gaza. But substantial numbers out on the streets there of the Dutch capital. There were protests as well in Morocco, in Rabat. People took to the streets to show, again, their solidarity with Palestinians and their opposition to what Israel has been doing and is expected to continue doing with that expected incursion over the next few days in the Gaza Strip.
 
And in London, it was -- and across other cities in the United Kingdom, it was Saturday, tens of thousands took to the street, again, in solidarity of the Palestinian people as people have all over the world now for more than a week.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Palestine will be free.
 
CROWD: Palestine will be free.
 
BELL (voiceover): In Sydney, thousands turned out to express solidarity with Palestinians and oppose Israel 's military action in Gaza. The police out in full force as well with organizers warning that antisemitic behavior that had been seen at previous protests would not be welcome. No signs of that chaos here, but the crowds' message to the Palestinian people was loud and clear. LIQAA, DEMONSTRATOR: What's a protest going to do except spread awareness and support? We have no legitimized, legalized any enforceable power to do anything to protect them. Shame on the government who do and don't do anything.
 
BELL (voiceover): Pro-Palestinian rallies have been held in cities around the world. In France and Germany, where they have been banned, demonstrators gathered regardless. Some of the largest rallies for Palestinians were held in the Arab world. Thousands attended a rally in Turkey where crowds vented anger at both Israel and the United States. Similar scenes of solidarity in Pakistan.
 
SALMA REHEEL QAZI, DEMONSTRATOR: We are seeing from our race and all over Pakistan that Palestinians are not alone.
 
BELL (voiceover): And in Tunisia, anger that more is not being done to protect Palestinians.
 
SAHER ELMASRI, DEMONSTRATOR (through translator): My people are facing extermination and Gaza is being devastated. Where is the International Community? Where are the Arabs? Where is the Arab conscience?
 
BELL (voiceover): In Tokyo, a smaller crowd, but a similar plea.
 
AWED SADEED, DEMONSTRATOR: I came here to show that we are united now. You know, the Muslims, they are very tired of war and everyone is tired of conflicts. And everyone wants justice.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BELL (on camera): This is a conflict, Michael, as you know that is always resonated widely. It has done for so much of the last more than half a century. But it is, of course, the strength of the emotions and the violence that has happened over the course of the last nine days that has really brought it back to the front of people's minds.
 
We saw on the first few days, tremendous outpourings of grief and solidarity for Israel. With every day that passes, Michael, and with all attention very much on the Rafah Crossing, whether it will open, the fate of the civilians inside Gaza, it is the anger of those supporting the Palestinian people. And again, the civilians now trapped that are likely to grow louder and louder. Michael.
 <br>[23:45:00]
 
HOLMES: All right. Terrific reporting. Thank you, Melissa. Melissa Bell there in Paris for us.
 
Now, a reminder of how the war started between Israel and Hamas and how it's upended so many lives. One moment, a young woman pictured here was enjoying the Nova Music Festival with friends and then Hamas rockets rained down. She said she managed to survive by hiding. Days later, the 21-year-old is back were her IDF unit. CNN's Dana Bash spoke with Chen, whose full name we are withholding for security.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) "CHEN", FESTIVAL SURVIVOR/ IDF SOLDIER: I've been into Nova Festival with my friend. And we went there to celebrate life and happiness, and all we wanted to do is to dance. And during dancing, on -- about 6:30 in the morning, they shot down the music and we looked up in the sky and we saw rain of rockets. Like, literally, a rain of rockets.
 
And no one knew what to do. So, everyone starts screaming and yelling and crying. And me and my friend, decided we need to go to our car. So, we went to our car and 3,000 people trying to go out from a parking lot, it's not something easy. It's not something nice. And while we're in our car waiting to go out, I saw everyone left their cars and started running. And I didn't know what happened, so I opened my car window and I heard someone screaming, they are here, the terrorists are here.
 
And then I realized that this is big. Terrorists in Israel. OK. So, I left my car, me and my friends started running to the field, and I start hearing the gunshots. They come forward to us. And I lost my friend during the running and I start running by myself. So, I found a bush and I lay on the ground in the bush, and I put my hands on my head, with my face down, and the gunshots still continuing. People crying for help.
 
And after that, about one hour or two later of hiding, I heard people not to screaming, but they were allowed to go back to their cars. Guys, go back to your cars. So, because I was on my own, I decided to raise my head a little bit up to see what's going on, and I decided I needed to go back to my car.
 
So, I started running and I saw my friend from home during the running and I called him to come with me. And we get inside the car and we start driving because the road was blocked from both sides. And we saw the cops, they were terrified. The cops were terrified also.
 
DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I'm sure.
 
"CHEN": They didn't know what happened. And they direct us to a road, to a farm road and we -- 
 
BASH: And you got out?
 
"CHEN": Yes -- no, but in the -- in that road, we saw a lot of dead bodies. Dead bodies that didn't just murder, they were slaughtered, OK, with cold blood. And we drove slowly because we didn't want to run over the bodies, and this is how I escaped home.
 
BASH: I'm so sorry, I just want to make sure that our viewers know that you are talking to us in the dark because you are just, days later, fighting in the IDF, fighting in the war.
 
"CHEN": Yes, I -- 
 
BASH: Can you briefly tell us -- 
 
"CHEN": -- I decided to come back. BASH: -- as a survivor, that must be unimaginably difficult.
 
"CHEN": Yes, it is. But after a couple of days that I was sitting in my home and dealing with my mental health issues that happened after what I survived, really survived, I decided I needed to go back to army because I'm a combat soldier, OK? And when we reach 18 in Israel, and we join the army, we take an oath. And we swear to protect Israel with -- to protect our country no matter when and no matter what.
 
And I decided that I need to go back to my unit because my unit were there to start fighting, OK. And I needed to do my duty. I needed to do what I swear on.
 <br>[23:50:00]
 
Because I don't have another home and what happened, this massacre, this -- we are in 2023, and I was a witness to a massacre. And I don't have another home. I don't have another land. My family here. I don't know anything else. So, I decided I needed to come back. I decided to put aside everything I've been through.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Now the U.S. President Joe Biden is condemning a stabbing attack that killed a Palestinian Muslim child in the City of Chicago. Police say, 71-year-old Joseph Czuba fatally stabbed six-year-old Wadea Al-Fayoume, and seriously wounded the boy's mother in what authorities say was a hate crime.
 
The council on American Islamic relations says, the mother sent text messages to the boy's father from the hospital saying Czuba, who is the family's landlord, had attacked her and her son with a knife yelling, you Muslims must die. We have not yet heard from Czuba, it's not clear if he has an attorney.
 
In a statement, President Biden said in part, "This horrific act of hate has no place in America and stands against our fundamental values." He went on, as Americans, we must come together and reject Islamophobia and all forms of bigotry and hatred.
 
We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:55:14]
 
HOLMES: Exit polls show Poland's populist ruling party is set to lose its parliamentary majority after Sunday's hard-fought election. The opposition block led by Former Prime Minister Donald Tusk appears on course to gain control if it strikes deals with smaller parties. The results of the election are expected to have major ramifications for Poland, the balance of power in the European union and the future of the war in Ukraine.
 
Senator right candidate Daniel Noboa is on track to become Ecuador's next president following an election driven by concerns over rising violence in that Latin American nation. Noboa, the son of a banana tycoon, received 52 percent of the vote. His main rival, Luisa Gonzalez, got almost 48 percent. More than 10 million people voted in Sunday's election, which comes after the assassination of another presidential candidate in August.
 
Now, when White House Republicans gather behind closed doors in Washington on Monday evening, they will be in their 13th day of operating without a leader. Ohio Congressman Jim Jordan is expected to force a floor vote on Tuesday as he tries to become the next speaker of the house. But a number of Republicans are reportedly in talks to keep the vote from happening.
 
One senior house member who opposes to Jordan's speakership tells CNN that he thinks there are roughly 40 votes against Jordan, and at least 20 members who are willing to go to the floor on Tuesday to block Jordan's path if he tries to compel a roll call vote.
 
Thanks for being with me this past hour. I'm Michael Holmes. I will have another hour of our coverage of the war on -- between Israel and Gaza after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)