Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: LA Times: "Friends" Actor Matthew Perry Dead At 54; Warner Bros. Television Group: "Friends" Actor Matthew Perry Dead At 54. Aired 10-11p ET

Aired October 28, 2023 - 22:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[22:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And we are back with our breaking news just into CNN. Actor Matthew Perry has died at the age of 54. The Los Angeles Times quoting law enforcement sources, is reporting the "Friends" star was found dead about four o'clock this afternoon in a hot tub at his Los Angeles home. The LA Times reports its sources speaking on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. It did not cite the cause of death. The paper reports there was no sign of foul play. But, robbery, homicide detectives from the Los Angeles Police Department are investigating the death, as would be routine in a situation like this.
 
As you probably know, Perry appeared in countless other TV shows, but he is best known for his role of Chandler Bing in "Friends". The sitcom ran for 10 seasons. Perry appeared in every single episode, and we all -- so many of us learned just recently with his memoir, that in many episodes, he was struggling with addiction. His battle with alcohol and drugs, specifically painkillers was well-known. He wrote about that addiction in his memoir that he titled "Friends, Lovers and the Big Terrible Thing", including that he went to rehab more than 60 times.
 
CNN's Camila Bernal is in Los Angeles. What more can you tell us tonight, Camila, as we learn this sad news about Matthew Perry's death.
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Pam, authorities are saying that they responded to a 911 call at a home that matched Perry's addressed. Authorities have not confirmed that it was in fact Perry himself. But, of course, we are reporting that the LA Times is saying this was an apparent drowning incident. So, that 911 call went out at 4:07 p.m. local time here in Los Angeles, and police responded at 4:10 p.m. They responded to a water rescue emergency. And so, it was a very quick response. And again, the LA Times is saying there was no foul play here. We are again waiting for authorities to give us that official confirmation and waiting to hear from representatives of Perry himself.
 
Unfortunately, the LA Times again reporting that he is dead at 54. He was born in Massachusetts, and was born to a father who was an actor, a mother who was a journalist. They split up and he went with his mother to Canada. So, he spent a portion of his life in Canada, returned here to the U.S. was in Los Angeles as a teenager, and began that acting career. Essentially, following his father's footsteps, he got a number of acting roles in different shows. But, of course, it was "Friends" that really brought him to fame, and it was "Friends" who brought him to all of our households in the 90s as he filmed many, many episodes, and 10 seasons of "Friends" bringing us so much joy as Chandler, really making us fall in love with Chandler and really with Matthew Perry himself as well.
 
You talked about his struggles. He was very open about his struggles with addiction, especially in the book. And I wanted to read part of what he said in the book because he said that he shared those struggles because he knew that this would help other people. And so, what he said here was "What I'm most surprised with is my resilience". So, he was saying he was a resilient person, which is why he decided to write this book, and he said, "The way that I can bounce back from all of this torture and awfulness, wanting to tell the story even though it's a little scary to tell all your secrets in a book. I didn't leave anything out."
 
And I think that also made really America fall in love with him, because he was able to share those struggles and really be relatable with so many people, while also bringing us so much joy through "Friends" and other TV shows and movies that he was part of. He was just a funny person that everyone was able to relate to or laugh with or fall in love with.
 <br>[22:05:00]
 
And so, that's why you're seeing so much shock and so much sadness from a lot of his fans on social media, and coming in, you know, as we speak, people who are shocked and saddened by his death, Pam.
 
BROWN: And no doubt he helped a lot of people opening up about his addiction. As you know, Camila, opioid addiction is a crisis here in America, and to see someone of his stature or his fame to open up about that, open up about his struggles. You talk about the fact that he was told by doctors that he only had a two percent chance of survival when he was 49-years-old and was able to bounce back, that give so many hope and inspiration that maybe they too could overcome the struggles and the evilness of addiction. Camila, stay with us as we continue to cover this breaking news tonight.
 
Last year, Perry opened up about his addiction to drugs and alcohol in his memoirs, we've been talking about, and he also shared a lot of funny moments in his life, including reports that he had once beat up Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau when they attended elementary school together. It was a moment late night host Stephen Colbert inquired about.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEPHEN COLBERT, HOST, "THE LATE SHOW": Now, who gets recognized more in Canada? You or Trudeau?
 
MATTHEW PERRY, AMERICAN-CANADIAN ACTOR: I would say Trudeau. But, you know, there was a big rumor about us --
 
COLBERT: What?
 
PERRY: -- that we had -- that I beat him up in grade school.
 
COLBERT: Did you?
 
PERRY: I don't think so. No.
 
COLBERT: But, you're not entirely sure.
 
PERRY: My friends, Brian Murray and Chris Murray, who were the guys, and myself who invented that weird way of talking, you know, could be colder in here.
 
COLBERT: Sure. Sure. Sure.
 
PERRY: Good.
 
COLBERT: Yes.
 
PERRY: Could it be colder, by the way?
 
COLBERT: Yes.
 
PERRY: (Inaudible).
 
COLBERT: We could not.
 
PERRY: OK. So, they told me that we'd beat up Justin Trudeau, and I just believe them. And somehow, he got the story, and he tweeted me, and he wanted to like have a fight. And I said you have your own Army. No, thanks.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BROWN: I want to bring in Entertainment Reporter Elizabeth Wagmeister. Elizabeth, first off, tell us about the legacy that Matthew Perry leaves behind.
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Matthew Perry leaves behind an unbelievable legacy. Being one of the stars of "Friends", we will not see another television sitcom star like that in the future of Hollywood. This is the type of show that doesn't exist anymore. In the streaming era where there is so much content, this just doesn't happen. Remember, when "Friends" came out in 1994, there were just a few networks. There weren't many places to watch TV. This was truly must see TV, where 20 million people were tuning in every Thursday night on NBC to watch Matthew Perry. He is known among generations.
 
Of course, when "Friends" first came on to streaming, it was a blockbuster deal on Netflix. And there are kids today who are just discovering the show, and just learning who Chandler Bing is. They know Matthew Perry as the 25-year-old who started on that show. In fact, Pamela, there are many people around the world who say that they learned to speak English from watching "Friends". That is what a big deal this show was. And Matthew Perry is as a star that people feel like they know in their homes.
 
BROWN: Yes. So many people feel like they have such a deep connection with him from his character Chandler Bing. I mean, he really was the perfect fit. We were just talking, he almost didn't get the role because he was booked on another show L.A.X. And then, because that show was dropped, he auditioned, and he got the job. But, it's important to note, you know, he was prepared, right? He was prepared for that incredible opportunity. And he nailed it.
 
WAGMEISTER: Absolutely. And that just goes to show the level of his talent, that he almost could not take this role in "Friends" because he was booked for another show. And we hear this all the time in Hollywood. But, of course, to even book a pilot, you are the one percent of the one percent in Hollywood if you even have made it that far. So, to think that during pilot season, he was wanted for numerous shows. It just shows how immense his talent was. And when you watch "Friends", you see it come off the screen, his comedic timing, his jokes, the Chandler-isms. I mean, he really is a television character and a television star that is so rare to think that multiple generations. I watched the show with my mom and with my grandma, and I'm sure that you do as well. That's just not something that you see very often.
 
BROWN: It's not, and it brings back so much nostalgia for me watching that show. I loved watching it growing up, and I too was a big Chandler fan, and just adored him and just seen the outpouring of love and reaction on social media, sums up the incredible impact and the indelible mark he has left on so many of our lives.
 <br>[22:10:00]
 
We now have a statement coming in from Warner Bros. Television Group, and that statement says, "We are devastated by the passing of our dear friend Matthew Perry. Matthew was an incredibly gifted actor and an indelible part of the Warner Bros. Television Group family. The impact of his comedic genius was spelled around the world, and his legacy will live on in the hearts of so many. This is a heartbreaking day, and we send our love to his family, his loved ones and all of his devoted fans." So, Elizabeth, reactions starting to pour in.
 
WAGMEISTER: Yes. And this is significant because of course reports have come through, but there has not been an official statement or an official confirmation from anyone on Matthew Perry's team. So, the fact that Warner Bros. is coming forward, this is going to be the start of much reaction coming from Hollywood. We have not heard from stars of "Friends" yet. We haven't heard from Jennifer Aniston, Lisa Kudrow, Courteney Cox. I expect that we will hear from them, and they are going to be giving heartbreaking statements.
 
Another thing that's rare about "Friends" is this cast. They truly all were friends. In Hollywood, we know that behind the scenes people sometimes aren't so close. They fake it on the screen. But, this was a cast that has stayed in touch throughout the years. They have remained so close. He wrote about it in his book. We saw them come together recently for the major reunion that was on HBO Max. This is really a heartbreaking loss, and it is going to be felt throughout Hollywood and throughout the world.
 
BROWN: Yes. I mean, not only were they close, they really helped him, right, with his addiction and the struggles that was going on behind the scenes.
 
WAGMEISTER: Absolutely. Matthew Perry wrote about this that Jennifer Aniston saw what was going on, and she was the one who basically said you need help. I know what is happening. Matthew Perry even wrote in his book that out of all 10 seasons on "Friends", only season nine was the season that he was sober. And it's really unbelievable, I think, when you watch those episodes, which we've all seen, all of them, numerous times, that he was struggling so much behind the scenes. You would never know that he was under the influence. But, he wrote about that. And you're absolutely right that his cast members are the ones who have helped him so much throughout the years.
 
And aside from just helping him, they kept it private, and that's something that is notable because --
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
WAGMEISTER: -- Hollywood is an industry where people talk to the press. They leak. You know how much they cared about him that this never came out until it came from his own words. So, that's significant.
 
BROWN: Yes. That's an important point. It says a lot about them, and it says a lot about him, right, that they cared about him so much. What more did we learn from his memoir. He really detailed the struggles he -- and I think it's important to talk about that, because it also shows his resilience. And I think it evokes a lot of admiration for him that he went through these struggles. He had these demons, right, that he was able to sort of try out. They talked about breaking the -- this cycle of addiction after going to thousands of AA meetings and going to countless rehab stunts. He talked about all that he went through to get to that point. And it's really inspiring and remarkable.
 
WAGMEISTER: It is. And it really makes Matthew Perry relatable, right? When you are watching these characters on screen, especially someone who is famous and as recognizable as Matthew Perry, you think that you have not seen in common with them. But, what he did in his memoir is he showed the world you can be rich. You can be famous. You can seemingly have it all on the surface. But, for all of these years, I was struggling. And even at home, if those who are reading his book, haven't dealt with addiction, they likely know somebody who has or they have another struggle in his life. So, he really humanized himself.
 
And there were whispers about him throughout the years. As his appearance changed over the years, fans were wondering what is going on. And for him to come out and say this is exactly what was going on, that's very powerful and very brave of him. It's often very tough for stars who images everything, right? In Hollywood, you're supposed to be the perfect human. And to come forward and to talk about all of these struggles that he had been dealing with throughout the height of his fame, that really never went away. That really makes him more relatable.
 
And as you said, he went into great detail. He spoke about how about five years ago his colon ruptured from opioid addiction. He was hospitalized and almost died. So, this is why this death is so sad, because at the age of 54-years-old, so young. But, he has also had a brush with death before. And you could see during his interviews on this pressed for the book how much he appreciated life, and that he was able to overcome this and help others with this story.
 <br>[22:15:00]
 
So, it's just devastating that it ended like this.
 
BROWN: Yes. And he talked. He told People Magazine that he basically was in this new chapter of his life. He had sort of renewed lease on life when he was doing the book rounds, saying I'm not run by the fear I used to be run by. So, everything is kind of different. I'm feeling more confident. That was just last year. And it's interesting looking at a social media as well, just in the last six days or so, Elizabeth, he had been posting more pictures including of him in a hot tub, and we're learning today, sadly, that he was found dead in a hot tub at his home at the age of 54.
 
We're still learning more. Tributes are pouring in, honoring the legacy, the life of Matthew Perry. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BROWN: And we are back with our breaking news. Actor Matthew Perry has died at the age of 54. The Los Angeles Times quoting law enforcement sources, reporting the "Friends" star was found dead about four o'clock this afternoon in a hot tub at his Los Angeles home. Matthew Perry was very open about his struggles with addiction and alcohol abuse, especially in his memoir, "Friends, Lovers and the Big Terrible Thing".
 
Here is Matthew Perry on ABC's "The View" last November, promoting his memoir and talking about coexisting with addiction.
 <br>[22:20:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PERRY: I mean, there is a couple of things that took place. On the set of "Friends", it was the -- it emulated kind of in nature penguins and what penguins do for each other. If a penguin is injured, the other penguins surround it and prop it up and walk around it until the penguin is OK. And that's sort of what the cast of "Friends" did for me. But, the thing to really do is to raise your hand, and that's what helped me is the fear of it. Like I would get so far into it. I'd be like, Oh, I'm -- this is dangerous now. And I would raise my hand and get the right help. You have to have professionals in --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
 
PERRY: -- the business. It can't just be a group of people who don't know anything about this, because as much as I wanted to quit, that day Jenny came up to me and said, we know. I couldn't. It wasn't an option. But, if you raise your hand to the right people, you get the right out, and you don't be alone with it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. Yes.
 
PERRY: You have a chance out, and that's what I get out.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BROWN: There you listening to Matthew Perry talking about how things were going well for him in these later years of his life. And Perry was one of the stars of this hit sitcom "Friends" that so many of you know about. It was produced by Warner Bros. And we want to share that statement we got just a short time ago from the Warner Bros. Television Group. That statement says, "We are devastated by the passing of our dear friend Matthew Perry. Matthew was an incredibly gifted actor and an indelible part of the Warner Bros. Television Group family. The impact of his comedic genius was felt around the world, and his legacy will live on in the hearts of so many. This is a heartbreaking day, and we send our love to his family, his loved ones, and all of his devoted fans."
 
Let's bring back Billy Bush, Host and Managing Editor of "Extra". It's interesting, Billy, because those who knew him well, Matthew Perry well, they are obviously devastated. We just saw that statement from Warner Bros. talking about how heartbreaking this is. But, I think any viewer of the "Friends", anyone who watched Chandler being through the years, it just feels like they lost a friend today, right?
 
BILLY BUSH, HOST &amp; MANAGING EDITOR, "EXTRA" (via telephone): Oh, yes. That's the thing. There was such a connection. Everybody, like I mentioned a little while ago, I think everybody, guys, thought he was cool, and would want them to be a friend. And I think women thought he was the perfect boyfriend, right? Just that great sense of humor, timing, sweet, secure. You know what I mean? Just a bozy (ph) guy. And, in real life, he described himself as a quiet sort of keep to myself kind of fella. But, the character he gave us all, just checked everybody's boxes.
 
BROWN: It certainly did. Billy, you knew him personally. You obviously knew his work well. What legacy --
 
BUSH (via telephone): Yes.
 
BROWN: -- does Matthew Perry leave behind?
 
BUSH (via telephone): Well, I mean, just -- truly, we know him as a tortured soul and a brilliant performer. I think both. I think both. But, I really do hope that nothing -- there was no foul play involved. I believe that to be the case. I know, the LA Times is reporting it and others. I believe it to be the case, because I -- we have lots of mutual friends. There is a pickle. I'm just been texting with one of our pickleball friends who said he spoke to Matthew a bunch this week, and he said -- and over the last few months, and he was doing great. He said so sad, nicest and biggest, warmest heart in the world, with some guy that pretty much taught him the game.
 
BROWN: Wow.
 
BUSH (via telephone): But, yes. And I'm sort of -- he -- I'm putting together who was playing pickleball with him this morning. So, I'm trying to --
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): -- track that down.
 
BROWN: And you almost played with him one time too. You said you were in touch with him. You almost made it to the courts, whether it was tennis or pickleball. I don't remember.
 
BUSH (via telephone): Yes.
 
BROWN: But, you had your own sort of relationship with him. And it's so interesting. You talk about, well, people are complex, right? And he was complex, as you say, in some ways. He was this brilliant actor. He was also this tortured soul, and he really illuminated. More about why he felt the way he felt, and why he turned to drugs and alcohol later in his life. In his memoir, Billy, he talked about how -- when he was five-years-old, he was an unaccompanied minor on a plane to go visit his father who had abandoned him at nine-months-old. And he said that that was a big moment for him in early childhood that led to this sense of abandonment. He had a lot of struggles, right? And yet, he was able --
 
BUSH (via telephone): Yes.
 
BROWN: -- to be the successful actor along the way.
 
BUSH (via telephone): And he said, he started his book, the audio version of his book with -- he said -- the first words out of his mouth were "For all of the sufferers out there, you know who you are." And he said it in this sort of direct ominous different kind of this is real life way that it was no Chandler Bing delivery on that.
 
BROWN: Yes.
 <br>[22:25:00]
 
BUSH (via telephone): And then, he goes on to quote, "The best way out is always through, which is Robert Frost." And I think he was telling his fellow addicts, we got to go through this. Got to get all the way through to the other side. There is no cheating it. There is no getting around it.
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): And --
 
BROWN: The only way over it is through it. Right? BUSH (via telephone): Yes. And then, when he starts to read from the book, the actual verbiage, he says, you know, my friends, my name is Matt. My friends call me Maddie. And I should be that. Those are his first words. And then, he says you might consider right now that you're hearing me from beyond. I think it was always a marvel to him when he got around 50 that he was still alive. Like, how can this be?
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): And you know.
 
BROWN: Well, he -- I mean, yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): And now, of course, today he is no more.
 
BROWN: He walked about how his colon ruptured at the age of 49 from his opioid --
 
BUSH (via telephone): Yes.
 
BROWN: -- addiction. He talks about how his doctors gave him an only two percent chance of survival, and how he was in a coma for two weeks, followed by months more in the hospital, and how he had to have 14 surgeries to help prepare all the abdominal damage. And yet, he was able to go on and write this memoir that he apparently started writing on his iPhone Notes app. He wrote 110 pages, showed it to his agent. His agent said, we're going to turn this into a book. So, he comes out --
 
BUSH (via telephone): Yes.
 
BROWN: -- last year, does the rounds. And as you say, you're talking to people today who said we were just in touch about playing pickleball. I mean, he was really -- he seemed to be in a good place in his life. And he even talked about that in the interviews he was doing just last year.
 
BUSH (via telephone): He did exactly what I did, which is just find some space in the yard to squeeze the pickleball court, and I just did it over here. And I know he was one of the latest guys to add. But, they're popping up all over town. And he was really sort of getting -- I'm just talking to one of the guys that plays with him a lot. And I'm finding out who he was playing with this morning, because I knew in the community, we'll figure that out, and then just get to -- I want to know about those last moments. I want to know what he was like for those two hours that he was playing. He was laughing his face off and sweating and lunging for every ball.
 
BROWN: Yes. Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): You know what I mean? Like, that's -- and then, look, if the heart gave out, then what are you going to do? I hope it was peaceful, because he was on the rebound. He did seem to be doing just great. And I think he was.
 
BROWN: Yes. BUSH (via telephone): And if the ticker stops, and the ticker stops, but he was doing well. I think he was -- I'd like to say victorious in the battle of his life.
 
BROWN: Yes. And we're still learning waiting to -- learn more about the circumstances of his death. But, certainly, he overcame so much. But, as you pointed out, Billy, he also did a lot of damage to his body that he talked about in his memoir, taking up to 50 pills a day at one point.
 
BUSH (via telephone): Half in my life.
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): Half in my life, he said, in and out of rehab and treatment centers. For exactly half in my life, he said. When I was at a sober living facility when I was 24, no problem. It was 24. We get lots of time in front of me, he goes. But, when I was there at 42, and here now -- and then most recently, 49. It's not so cute anymore. And he realized. What I love most, though, is through the books, and through interview before -- I never did a big interview before, but the fact that he just lifted the veil of shame --
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): -- off the thing and stared it right in the face, and shared with everybody his experience, it just brought everyone closer to him. Nobody felt close to Matthew Perry, thanks to Chandler Bing. But, that brought you closer to the man. And we all sort of found ourselves in his corner. Didn't we?
 
BROWN: Yes. You're absolutely right. We did. And that's why we are was saying so many people already felt like they were friends with him. Then he comes out and he is so open and honest. And I mean, think how many people he has helped at a time in this country is in crisis with opioid addiction. For someone like him to come out and speak about his struggles for people to see that, it can happen to him too, and to see his resilience, it's inspiring.
 
BUSH (via telephone): Yes. And it's so prevalent. I think, another great -- Charlie Sheen fought that battle, another guy with a tremendously successful sitcom, right, who was very funny and charming that struggled mightily.
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): So, I also hope he is winning that. I think he is too --
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): -- which is -- which would be great. But, Matthew knew this was coming. I mean, he said it so many different ways.
 
BROWN: Yes. BUSH (via telephone): And even that -- just in the posts from six days ago on Instagram, he hadn't been on Insta in a while, and it's just a moonlit night sitting by himself in the corner of a Jacuzzi. It's like --
 
BROWN: It's his last post on his Instagram.
 <br>[22:30:00]
 
It's interesting we're going back and looking through his memoir and finding little anecdotes that help. Tell us a little bit more about Matthew Perry as we mourn his loss and celebrate his legacy. And there is some really interesting little nuggets in here, Billy. He talks about his relationship with Julia Roberts and how they used to fax poems to each other. That was sort of the courtship early on, fax him poems.
 
BUSH (via telephone): Did he blow it was her?
 
BROWN: What's that?
 
BUSH (via telephone): Did he blow it with Julia Roberts?
 
BROWN: I don't know. I would have -- you know more about that than me.
 
BUSH (via telephone): I would have blown it too. So, it's OK.
 
BROWN: Well, and he talks about Cameron Diaz and how they were out, I think, on a date, and how she accidentally punched him in the face. He talks --
 
BUSH (via telephone): That is Chandler Bing.
 
BROWN: That is Chandler Bing. Is it not? I know. Right? And then, he talked about how Bruce Willis was a friend, and he appeared in "Friends", but it was only because he lost a bet to Matthew Perry. And so, Bruce Willis agreed to come on "Friends" because of losing that bet. I mean, he had friends in obviously high places and many friends in Hollywood. But, he also was so relatable as just your everyday guy. Wasn't he?
 
BUSH (via telephone): Oh, yes. Yes, I mean, that's -- like, he describes himself as quiet, keep to myself kind of fella. He had a little aw shucks to him. And there was never entered the room quietly, people who enter quietly and you go to them and figure them out. And that's -- I think that's the kind of guy he was. He would come up around assumingly, put the red carpet at the Golden Globes or something. He just come up with the hands in his pockets, kind of like, hey, hey, man, just never a big to do. He'll be just -- he'll let all those hysterical moments happen on the screen so brilliantly.
 
BROWN: Just so you know, Billy, my wonderful colleague, Dana Bash, is texting me, confirming what you said that he did break up with her. He did break up with Julia Roberts. You were right. You did blow up with Julia Roberts. BUSH (via telephone): I love that Dana Bash is right there. She went -- yes. I think that's what happened. I think she blew it, which is great. While we're sharing deeply personal things there, let me tell you about the time I blew it with Julia Roberts.
 
BROWN: Julia Roberts. But, it's all part of his life story, right? I mean, he is -- he lived an --
 
BUSH (via telephone): Yes.
 
BROWN: -- incredible life, right? I mean, I think about when people --
 
BUSH (via telephone): And he is shy. I mean, think of all the beautiful women that would want to go out with Matthew Perry, all the celebrities and whatever. And he is trying. Like, I'm going out. I'm trying, but I'm not -- I've got so many opportunities here. But, he was a shy guy. Don't expect Chandler Bing. Given him some space. Let him be him.
 
BROWN: Yes. And on that note, there was this really sweet quote that I said earlier on the show where he talked about the fact -- he says, I'm not run by the fear I used to be run by. So, everything is kind of different. He said, I'm feeling more confident, and I'm not afraid of love anymore. So, the next girl I go out with, better watch out. He said that last year.
 
BUSH (via telephone): Watch out.
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): Oh my God.
 
BROWN: Just last year.
 
BUSH (via telephone): Yes. And he was engaged, and in a couple of relationships. I think he was single now. But, that's too bad. I wish he had gotten to realize that, but at least he was headed in the right direction. And I think whenever we check out, whether you live 10 years or 85 years, it's -- right, depending on what you believe, it's maybe just a speck in time. And he was doing it the right way when he went out. So --
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
BUSH (via telephone): -- that's the beautiful thing.
 
BROWN: It's -- he said to the LA Times, this is how he wants -- he wanted to be remembered. He said, as a guy who lived life, loved well, lived well and helped people, that running into me was a good thing, and not --
 
BUSH (via telephone): Yes.
 
BROWN: -- something bad. That's how he said he wanted to be remembered. And no doubt, he will be remembered for that and so much more, Billy. BUSH (via telephone): Yes. We're going to hang on to that one. That's a good one. I'm going to -- let's internalize that. That's really, really, really nice, very poignant.
 
BROWN: That is poignant and so sad, and as we learn this just tragic news. So, we all feel like we lost a close friend or a family member tonight, as we learn about the death of actor Matthew Perry, Chandler being on "Friends", a man who lived life to the fullest and was open about his own struggles, helping countless people. More on the breaking news, the death of Matthew Perry, the popular actor from the 90s sitcom "Friends" with more of our coverage ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[22:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BROWN: The LA Times says Perry was found dead earlier today in a hot tub at his Los Angeles home. The Times says it sources did not give a cause of death. Perry was one of the stars of the hit sitcom "Friends", playing the character Chandler being the lovable, the quirky and usually sarcastic one of the group. Chandler's character was so well-known. He was a fan favorite for so many. And that is why so many of us are mourning tonight the loss of him at the age of 54. We all felt like we knew him. He was so relatable. He was so beloved. And that love grew for him even more once his memoir came out last year. And he talked about all the struggles he had.
 
But, behind the scenes when he was on "Friends", in fact, he had talked about how he was addicted through every season except for, I believe, the ninth season. And yet, he was able to persevere. And as he said, break the cycle of addiction, and go on to write a memoir, and now we're learning that he is dead at the age of 54, found in a hot tub by authorities, according to sources telling CNN, found dead today in a hot tub. We're still learning about the circumstances. But, the LA Times says no foul play, according to their law enforcement sources.
 
I want to bring in my colleague Laura, who is just -- I am just in shock. I'm really still in shock, right, Laura Coates, because I grew up with him. I grew up with Chandler Bing. I love watching the reruns of Chandler Bing. And it is just so heartbreaking to think about the fact that he is gone, but he leaves behind an incredible legacy.
 <br>[22:40:00]
 
Does he not?
 
LAURA COATES, CNN HOST, "LAURA COATES LIVE": Pam, you are so right. I mean, you think about Chandler Bing and you think about, of course, who he was as a person. And I -- it was almost a year ago to the date, Pam, that I had a chance to meet Matthew Perry. I was doing "Real Time with Bill Maher". He was the guest as well as me. And I remember being in the hallway, as you're getting ready to go backstage and approach, and he held out his hand and he says, Hi, I'm Matt. And I thought, yes, I know. And he was so self-deprecating. He was so relatable. He was so real in the moment. And he had such a quality that had a really non-Hollywood Vibe.
 
You think you're going to meet someone who is obviously going to have the air of having been this phenomenal star for so long, just like you, watching him having my friends compare the boys they like to, well, is he a Ross, or is he a Chandler, or is he a Joey Tribbiani? You had the Rachael haircuts, and you knew --
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
COATES: -- this person and all that he was saying, it's just such a devastating loss. Pam, thank you so much. I mean, he really was one of the stars of such an iconic show, that it's really feel like you lost a friend today.
 
BROWN: And we all feel that way. I'm getting texts from friends from all over the places saying, I can't believe Matthew Perry is gone. Oh my Gosh. I mean, we're all really feeling it. And --
 
COATES: Yes.
 
BROWN: -- you, Laura Coates, the fact that you got to interact with him not too long ago, and meet the real Matthew Perry, not just the Chandler Bing that we're all familiar with, but meet the real person behind the scenes. As you said, it was so not Hollywood, which I just love it. He is so relatable. It's not surprising. So, I'm going to hand it over to you now, Laura, as you continue to honor Matthew Perry's legacy tonight.
 
COATES: Pam Brown, thank you so much. We've been talking about this death of this iconic figure. Perry. He was one of the stars of the hit sitcom "Friends", playing the character Chandler Bing, a character who often would need a backup from his fellow friends. Well, as we see in this clip. Take a look.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
COATES: Can he be any more Chandler? We all remember that scene and that one and how every episode began with the one where, remember that, in the title. Well, "Friends" ran for 10 seasons, from 1994 to 2004, and there was not a complete cast reunion until 2021. But, over the years, some of the friends did get together from time to time like here. Take a look at when Matthew Perry was guest hosting right here on CNN back in 2014, interviewing his former co-star Phoebe. I mean, Lisa Kudrow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PERRY: People are always asking me do I watch the show, and I don't really watch the show. It's odd. I don't watch it.
 
LISA KUDROW, CO-STAR OF MATTHEW PERRY IN "FRIENDS": Yes.
 
PERRY: Do you watch?
 
KUDROW: No, no. Not much.
 
PERRY: Yes.
 
KUDROW: Not much. It's hard. If I see that it's on, I would have to check my mood. I don't know if you're the same way. If I'm in a bad mood, I'm not going to like seeing myself at all.
 
PERRY: Right. But, if you're in a good mood, you like it.
 
KUDROW: If I'm in a good mood, I'm like, oh, not bad.
 
PERRY: Do you have a ring that tells you watch "Friends", don't watch "Friends"?
 
KUDROW: I have a ring in here --
 
PERRY: Oh, in your heart.
 
KUDROW: -- that tells me -- anyway, heart.
 
PERRY: You have a ring in your heart.
 
KUDROW: That's what it is.
 
PERRY: Let me tell you -- yes.
 
KUDROW: But, I think all of you guys are hilarious every time, like, God, they're talented. My God, they're so funny.
 
PERRY: Well --
 
KUDROW: Why did I suck so much?
 
PERRY: Yes. That's the neurosis. That's why we're all not plumbers.
 
KUDROW: Right.
 
PERRY: That's why we're actors and neurotic and needy.
 
KUDROW: Yes. Well --
 
PERRY: Good fun.
 
KUDROW: -- good night.
 
PERRY: That's fun. So, I was doing a Hollywood Reporter interview a couple of weeks ago or like a month ago, and it was one of those, hey, I hope I can get nominated for an Emmy interviews.
 <br>[22:45:00]
 
I did not. It did not work. But, I still had to do the interview --
 
KUDROW: OK. I voted for you.
 
PERRY: -- sort of (inaudible). You did? KUDROW: Yes.
 
PERRY: Thank you.
 
KUDROW: Yes.
 
PERRY: I didn't know we voted. Did we vote?
 
KUDROW: Oh, really? You forgot to vote for yourself.
 
PERRY: Yes. That's why I lose all the time. And I find myself sort of reminiscing about how much fun the show was, and the hours that we worked and how much -- you could see how much we laughed and everything. And I found myself saying, if I could -- if I had a time machine, I think I would like to go back to 2004 and not have stopped.
 
KUDROW: Yes. No.
 
PERRY: So, I found that -- so, just assuming for a second that time machines are just around --
 
KUDROW: OK.
 
PERRY: -- would you get in a time machine and have stopped? Would you want to change that? Or --
 
KUDROW: Yes. I mean, if it were up to us --
 
PERRY: Yes.
 
KUDROW: -- like, individually --
 
PERRY: Yes.
 
KUDROW: -- then, yes.
 
PERRY: You would have kept going or you would have stopped?
 
KUDROW: Oh, I would keep going.
 
PERRY: Yes.
 
KUDROW: I mean, I figured there was probably -- there would have come a time anyway --
 
PERRY: Yes.
 
KUDROW: -- when someone would have said we've had enough.
 
PERRY: Right.
 
KUDROW: But, why don't have fun until they do?
 
PERRY: Yes. I guess the ideology was that like we would decide, because that would be better.
 
KUDROW: Right.
 
PERRY: But, I disagree.
 
KUDROW: Right.
 
PERRY: Looking back, no, don't make us decide. Let's keep going. It's the greatest job in the world.
 
KUDROW: It was. No, I mean, we had a lot of fun.
 
PERRY: Yes.
 
KUDROW: It was just really fun. But, I think we were extremely appreciative at the time, by the way. It's not --
 
PERRY: Yes.
 
KUDROW: -- like we did not appreciate how fun it was, how good the writing was. We were all very proud and appreciative.
 
PERRY: We definitely.
 
KUDROW: Yes.
 
PERRY: You were a part of something special --
 
KUDROW: Yes.
 
PERRY: -- and we're very grateful the whole time. But, I think just in that meeting where we all said, let's stop, I probably would have said, hey, let's not stop.
 
KUDROW: Yes. Me too.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COATES: So many people are so familiar with "Friends", it never really has stopped in anyone's mind. I mean, there are people who I know personally, who learned English watching "Friends", who are still learning and relating to Matthew Perry as Chandler Bing, and there is that moment frozen in time for so many people, and that's even just starting there. I remember when he was an actor in the 80s and 90s, and even -- wasn't he done Charles in Charge at one point in time? I mean, that's how far back you can remember him.
 
With me now is Karen Heller. She is a National Features Writer for The Washington Post. Karen, thank you so much for being with us tonight. I mean, the world is really shocked to think about this person no longer being with us. He is still so familiar to so many people who have either grown up watching him, have watched it in the reruns, indication (ph) or have learned and revisited for the very first time. It's stunning.
 
KAREN HELLER, NATIONAL FEATURES WRITER, THE WASHINGTON POST: "Friends", first of all, was the exceptional chemistry, these six actors. They worked so hard. I mean, there was a series about the casting of this, and it -- just they got everything right. And we saw them grow up. He was 24-years-old when this show started. You're very young. And we've watched him go from 24 to 34. And they -- but, they hit the characters almost immediately. They knew who they were. And while they kind of grew, they also, which is true in sitcoms, they stayed the same, because that's what the comfort was. We knew how they would react, and particularly Chandler, his sarcasm, and his sort of trying to be cooler than he actually was. And the scene you just showed, right?
 
COATES: It's so true. I mean --
 
HELLER: You need to tell.
 
COATES: Yes. It is funny when you think about what makes a great sitcom, what makes a great writing, what makes great acting, you start to wonder which came first, the chicken or the egg? Was it the writing and then this person has evolved or the character you start with that person. And then, everything just makes sense to the point you're in the writing room going, he would never say that. He would say this. He really embodied the roles and those actors around him, as you say, it just clicked.
 
HELLER: Right. Well, everyone in the show, the producers, the writers, it all worked. And they didn't have a lot of sets. Occasionally, they traveled. But, it was all about the chemistry. And these -- you may recall that they knew quite quickly as young as they were how important they were to NBC and to their audience, and they negotiated, and this was very public. They each negotiated together with their agents and got a million dollars an episode, because they knew they had true value. This was must see TV, Thursday night destination. It was comfort food. And so, they grew up, and we watched them, but we also -- there was a comfort of the familiar with these characters.
 
COATES: Karen, I had forgotten about that million dollar practice (ph) I did at the time. That was so unheard of not only the amount perhaps, but that they negotiated together.
 <br>[22:50:00]
 
Remember, this was women and men in the cast who were able to know their worth, who was respected and had that power to go collectively. It says a lot about the entirety of the cast. But then, I just kind of remember and realize, 24-years-old, that's when we --
 
HELLER: Right.
 
COATES: -- first met him as Chandler Bing, the enormity of the pressure and being a star at that age, can you imagine?
 
HELLER: No. And also, they knew their value. And your Courteney Cox was the best known of six of them when the show started. She had been in this video with Bruce Springsteen. She had been a model for Seventeen magazine, but they knew they really weren't a team. And you could see this in it. But, Matthew Perry's struggles with addiction was singular of this group. He just had epic battles with addiction. And when I interviewed, you met him at the same time about a year ago now, it's just traumatizing what he did to his body, the amount of abuse, and it was just -- it was unfathomable. I was concerned about this book tour that he was -- we living all of this. He would be shown his weight fluctuations, which went up and down 100 pounds during "Friends".
 
And he had to relive this, but I think it was cathartic for him to do this book. He really saw this is another act, a fresh renewal, and he really hoped it would lead to new acting roles. But, I worried about how much he had to talk about this with you, with me. He almost died. His colon burst. He was in a coma for two weeks. He -- two percent chance of living. He was five months in the hospital. It was just -- it was -- I was -- he was so brave to share all this. Lisa Kudrow told me this. She couldn't believe his bravery. But, it was a nightmare, his addiction battles.
 
COATES: I mean, that part of the book, one of the subtexts, that big terrible thing, and it's the -- there are so many people who in his position could have easily just never addressed it, could have stayed in a bubble, could have allowed people to think and care about what they wanted. But, it almost became a calling for him. And as you mentioned, maybe cathartic, equal parts liberating to share that part. And he talked about relapsing like 60 or 70 times, but it seemed as though he was coming out of it. He had reclaimed a lot of his autonomy and authority to be able to speak about these issues. And many thought when he first wrote a memoir at such a young age, even though he started at a young age, that it was almost premature to write about one's life.
 
But, it really was prescient, thinking now about what he was able to offer, and the short amount of time that he was on this planet, and the foresight to have a memoir at this moment in time.
 
Karen Heller, thank you so much for sharing what you remember and know about your experiences as well. Thank you.
 
HELLER: Thank you.
 
COATES: There are so many moments that I'm sure you're thinking in your mind right now, and I would bet with a smile when you're thinking about him as an actor, and about the bravery that our guests just spoke of in terms of sharing what has become all across this country, far too familiar, for so many households, so many individuals across this country, the battle with addiction, the battle of relapsing, the battle of wanting to share one story and being afraid of the scrutiny of the blaring light and whoever is watching. But, I will tell you, when you think about all that he was able to accomplish in his life and all the different moments and just the smile that you see, always just about to crack a sarcastic joke, deprecating, and yet, a twinkle in the eye.
 
I bet you're going to remember him and the way that he would like to be remembered. What did he say to the LA Times last year? That it wasn't a bad thing when you ran into him. There is still so much to talk about. We're talking about Matthew Perry. Now, we have learned he is dead at the age of just 54. For so many people, they're reminiscing to all the lives that have been lost and early when it comes to so many people that we have gained such a familiarity with. I bet you spent countless nights watching reruns in your bed before you've gone to sleep or throughout your day. And tonight, it seems that the headline is the one where we lost a friend. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[22:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COATES: We're back tonight with more on the death of actor Matthew Perry who passed away today at the age of 54-years-old. The LA Times reports that Perry was found dead around four this afternoon in a hot tub at his home in Los Angeles. As we've said, Matthew Perry was very open about his struggles with addiction even when "Friends" was still on the air, as he discussed with Larry King right here on CNN back in 2002.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY KING, RADIO AND TELEVISION HOST: Maybe it's unexplainable. What happened? Why would someone with everything going his way, fall prey to drugs and alcohol?
 
PERRY: So, we're entering the serious portion of the interview.
 
KING: Yes.
 
PERRY: All right.
 
KING: And it puzzles those who don't -- I mean, I was a tobacco addict. So --
 
PERRY: Yes.
 
KING: -- I understand addiction. I smoked for 35 years, three packs a day. And I smoked in the shower. I had a smoke. So, I know what it is to be. But, why?
 
PERRY: Yes. Well, the interesting thing is, if you had asked me this question two years ago, I would have no knowledge. I mean, just no idea. I didn't know why this was happening to me. I didn't -- I -- I thought it was -- I kind of thought it was a question of weakness or a lack of strength or a lack of will or just being spoiled or something like that.
 
KING: Why can I not do this?
 
PERRY: Yes, exactly, because it was of course never my intention to -- I was never this partier. Let's like close down a hotel room. And I was just a guy that was drinking and drinking more and more and couldn't stop and was trying to kind of live my life that way. And so, what happened was -- actually, on the set of "Serving Sara" was when I kind of had a little kind of -- the best way I can describe it as a kind of a spiritual moment where for a split second you see everything kind of clearly. I can't really describe it because it's about stuff that's bigger than I can really put into words.
 
But, I decided I needed to prioritize my life. And I decided that I needed to risk all the bad publicity. I needed to leave the movie. I needed to leave the TV show, and I need to go get help because I was worried about -- it got to the point where I was wondering if I was going to survive.
 
KING: With just alcohol?
 
PERRY: Yes. Well, it was alcohol. And then, there were other drugs that are actually just as dangerous that I was taking to try to drink less, but it was a completely crazy time.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COATES: God, he was just, what, 33-years-old during that interview. The reaction is coming in to the breaking news, the death of Matthew Perry, the popular actor from the 90s sitcom "Friends". We back in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:00:00]