Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: African Leaders Press Vladimir Putin On How To Stop War In Ukraine; General Abdourahamane Tiani Claims He Is Now Niger's New Leader; North Korea Celebrates Their "Victory Day"; U.S. Embassy in Haiti Advises U.S. Nationals To Leave The Country Immediately; Massive Crowds Of Protesters Demand The Resignation Of President Dina Bulate. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired July 28, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I'm Zain Asher in New York and this is ONE WORLD. In the final hours of a high-profile summit in St. 
 
 Petersburg, African leaders are pressing Vladimir Putin on how to stop his war in Ukraine. The Russian President is promising to discuss their peace 
 
 proposal in about an hour from now. Many people, of course, are skeptical. Just last month, he rejected the initiative outright. It comes as Moscow 
 
 continues putting up a fierce resistance on the battlefield. 
 
Kyiv's counteroffensive is gaining momentum with slow but steady advances in a renewed push to take back occupied territory. Ukraine says its forces 
 
 are breaking through entrenched Russian defenses along the southern front after successfully recapturing a strategic rural village in the Donetsk 
 
 region. CNN's Alexander Marquardt joins us live now from Kyiv. So, just in terms of Ukraine ramping up its counteroffensive, just walk us through 
 
 whether or not these gains that the Ukrainian forces are making here are significant or relatively inconsequential. 
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  It's a little bit of both, Zain. Significant because that town, Staromayorsk, is really the only 
 
 town that has been recaptured along that southern front in quite some time. This is a counteroffensive that has been going on for almost two months now 
 
 with no major gains to speak of, no major losses to speak of either. Ukrainian forces continue to push as much as they can. 
 
So, these are modest gains, but they are encouraging for the Ukrainian forces. They're trying to capitalize them and dig in in order to be able to 
 
 keep pushing forward to reinforce those areas that they have taken. And there is evidence, as you mentioned, that -- I'm going to just take this 
 
 out because I'm hearing feedback. But there is evidence that Russian forces and Ukrainian forces are being added to each side. 
 
Now, remember, the Ukrainians have been trying to drive south, trying to punch through that Russian line all along that southern front. They've been 
 
 trying in different areas. They've been trying to find Russian weaknesses. They've been trying to essentially trick the Russians and keep them off 
 
 their footing. So far, they haven't really been able to get through. 
 
But in Staromayorsk, they have taken a town. It is being held up as a victory. President Zelenskyy posted about it on his social media. And then 
 
 farther to the west, in southern Zaporizhzhia province, we understand that Ukrainian forces are also pushing south. We don't really have a sense of 
 
 how far they've actually gotten. There's some indications, they've broken through that first line of Russian defenses. 
 
We have been down there, Zain. We've spoken to those soldiers. They have told us how difficult that fight is, how many mines they have to cross to 
 
 make any kind of advance, how fearsome the Russian artillery is. But the hope, Zain, is that they will find that weak spot along the Russian line, 
 
 they will be able to punch through, and at that point, the counteroffensive can really pick up steam and really accelerate. Zain.
 
ASHER:  All right. Alezander Marquardt, live for us there. Thank you. All right, two days after taking over the country, Niger's coup leaders have 
 
 suspended the constitution. The group also dissolved all the institutions resulting from the constitution. This comes just hours after General 
 
 Abdourahamane Tiani appeared on state TV as president of what he called the National Council for Preservation of the Fatherland. He's basically saying 
 
 that he is now Niger's new president. 
 
He said that he essentially grabbed power or took over power over a deteriorating security situation in that country. Worldwide condemnation 
 
 has poured in following the coup, which deposed President Mohamed Bazoum. His whereabouts right now is unknown, though some reports say that he's 
 
 still being held in the presidential palace. West African leaders plan to meet Sunday in Abuja, Nigeria, to discuss the ongoing crisis in Niger. 
 
Larry Madowo joins us live now from Nairobi. So, essentially what you have here is an army general appearing on television, declaring himself leader. 
 
 He's the head of the presidential guard in Niger. He's now claimed that he is leader. Do we have a sense of who the majority of Nigerians, ordinary 
 
 Nigerians on the ground -- who are they supporting at this point in time? 
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  If you judge by who came out on the streets, you would say it's mixed. There are people who support the 
 
 military. There are people who do not want French influence in this country. It's an indictment of Francafrique and the influence that France 
 
 exerts over the entire central and West African region. 
 
But these are the men in charge of Niger right now. I want to show you this video released by the Council for the Safeguarding of the Homeland. That is 
 
 the organization that says it's suspended the Constitution of Niger, the 13-year-old Constitution, and all institutions that arose out of that 
 
 Constitution are suspended. They now run the country. And President Mohamed Bazoum is not part of that. 
 
And the leader of this group is the former -- is the head, actually, the current head of the presidential guard. One local, private newspaper in 
 
 Niger reports that he was about to be fired by President Mohamed Bazoum because he was inherited from the previous president. He's been in-charge 
 
 of the presidential guard since 2011. And President Bazoum, according to this newspaper report, was about to appoint somebody who is in his own 
 
 image as part of changes to the security sector. But this is how General Abdourahamane Tiani explains why he overthrew his boss. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDOURAHAMANE TIANI, NIGER GENERAL (through translator):  The action of the CNSP is motivated by the desire to preserve our beloved country. On the one 
 
 hand, because of the security degradation of our country, and this without the deposed authorities giving us a glimpse of a real way out of the 
 
 crisis. Secondly, because of the poor economic and social governance. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO:  One question here is what will this council to safeguard the homeland do with President Mohamed Bazoum? We understand he's still holed 
 
 up in the presidential palace. Will they release him? Will they allow him to go to exile? Will they put him on trial? We don't know. A senior source 
 
 loyal to President Bazoum telling CNN that he is well, he is healthy, and that this declaration of a new leader is pointless. He is still the 
 
 democratically elected president of Niger, and that there's some disagreement among these cool leaders about exactly who should be in 
 
 charge. 
 
And they're also fearing possible sanctions from ECOWAS, the Economic Community of West African states, which as you mentioned, is hosting an 
 
 emergency summit on Niger on Sunday in Abuja. So, a lot of questions about how will they govern the country, how will they deal with the neighborhood, 
 
 Mali and Burkina Faso that face this huge Islamist insurgency. 
 
ASHER:  That is the big question. Larry Madowo, live for us there. Thank you so much. All right. I'm being told that Vladimir Putin is walking up to 
 
 the podium in a summit in St. Petersburg where he has been meeting with African leaders. Let's listen in. 
 
(LIVE COVERAGE)
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over):  --the declarations on stopping the arms race in space, on the cooperation providing the information security, on 
 
 strengthening the cooperation, fighting terrorism and plan of action until 2026. On the results of the meetings, the Foreign Minister of Russian 
 
 Federation Sergey Lavrov and Peace and Security Department Seraj signing the Memorandum on Mutual Understanding between the Government of Russian 
 
 Federation and Inter-Government Development Organization on the basis of their relations and cooperation.
 
ASHER:  All right, that's just a snippet of what's been happening in St. Petersburg. On the final day of this summit that's been taking place 
 
 between Vladimir Putin and various heads of state in Africa who flew to Russia to meet with Vladimir Putin. Obviously, Russia has several modes of 
 
 interest on the continent. The big topic of discussion today, though, I think two things really come up today, and that is African leaders putting 
 
 pressure or demanding Russia to rejoin the Black Sea grain deal and also on a peace plan, developing some kind of peace plan to stop the war with 
 
 Ukraine. 
 
(LIVE COVERAGE ENDS)
 
ASHER:  We'll have much more on this summit in St. Petersburg a little bit later on in the show. All right, Israel's opposition leader Benny Gantz 
 
 says that Prime Minister Netanyahu's actions would constitute a coup if he refused to abide by a Supreme Court ruling. 
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
Earlier, in an interview with CNN, Netanyahu was asked what he'd do if Israel's Supreme Court struck down his controversial judicial reform law. 
 
 The prime minister would not say whether he'd honor that ruling if it came down, and he defended the so-called reasonableness law. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAEL PRIME MINISTER:  They can nullify an appointment. It's like the Supreme Court would be able to nullify an 
 
 appointment by President Biden, not by saying that there's a conflict of interest that exists today in Israel, that it's an undue process that 
 
 exists today in Israel, that it's not proportional, that exists in Israel, but just by saying we don't think this appointment is reasonable. 
 
That doesn't exist in America. It doesn't exist in most democracies, not to this scope. And that's the minor correction that we made that is now called 
 
 the end of democracy. If that's the end of democracy, there are no democracies because none of them have this. So, I think there's a lot of 
 
 hype. There's a lot of concern, a lot of it is --
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR:  Let me just point out, Mr. Prime Minister -- let me point out. The U.S. has a lot more checks and balances. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER:  That law weakened judicial oversight of the government and sparked days of protests. Mr. Netanyahu later tried to clarify things, he pledged 
 
 respect for court decisions. However, the prime minister stopped short of saying how he'd react. The court is due to hear appeals in September. 
 
The case against Donald Trump continues to grow. Special counsel investigating the ex-president added three new charges against him on 
 
 Thursday in the classified documents case. The indictment alleges that Mr. Trump discussed a top secret document concerning military activity in a 
 
 foreign country with biographers during a 2021 meeting in Bedminster, New Jersey. 
 
Prosecutors also allege that the former president told a Mar-a-Lago employee to delete security camera footage that had already been subpoenaed 
 
 by the Justice Department. Here's what Mr. Trump's former lawyer, Michael Cohen, said about the new charges. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL COHEN, FORMER TRUMP LAWYER:  This is so part of the Trump label that when I heard it on television, it didn't surprise me at all. Everybody 
 
 running around, you got to take care of the boss, do what the boss says. I'm shocked and I'm appalled that there are still people that are 
 
 supporting him when you --when we must understand that he is placing our national security in complete chaos, simply for his own personal benefit. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER:  CNN's Sara Murray joins us live now from Washington, D.C. So, Trump's legal exposure here, Sarah, is clearly vast. Just walk us through 
 
 what he's actually accused of, just in terms of obstructing justice. 
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, I mean, I think obviously we already knew about a number of these counts about retaining documents. 
 
 We knew about some other potentially obstructive acts. But what this new indictment really sheds light on is this alleged scheme to try to have 
 
 security footage of Mar-a-Lago destroyed and deleted. And that's where you get the third defendant, another Trump employee, added in this case. 
 
And basically, what it says is that the Trump team receives this subpoena from the government for the surveillance footage at Mar-a-Lago and 
 
 immediately, it sets off these conversations. Donald Trump, of course, talks to his attorney about the subpoena. He then summons another lower-
 
 level staffer, Walt Nauta, who's charged in this case, wants to talk to him. Walt Nauta scrambles, changes his travel plans to stay behind in Palm 
 
 Beach rather than traveling with the former president, who he's almost always alongside of. 
 
And then, I mean, it's really -- he's breaking things down sort of minute by minute, hour by hour. A couple days later, you get the details of this 
 
 other employee, now the third defendant, Carlos de Oliveira who is starting to inquire about, you know, how far back do the security tapes go? How long 
 
 are they on the server for? He learns that they're on the server for 45 days, and he makes it very clear to another Trump employee that the boss 
 
 wants the server deleted and essentially is asking, what are we going to do about this? So, this is sort of a new alleged obstructive scheme that the 
 
 government is laying out in this updated indictment scene. 
 
ASHER:  All right, Sara Murray, live for us there. Thank you so much. All right, so let's come here on ONE WORLD. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN:  And here, we are dying every moment. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER:  Imagine waiting two years for a better life, a better life that simply never comes. We'll share the agonizing struggles of Afghans who are 
 
 in limbo. And U.S. President Joe Biden believes his new executive order will change the military forever. We'll look at what exactly it does and 
 
 who it benefits. And later, how Netflix's latest animated series is the first of its kind. We'll explain.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER:  North Korea marked 70 years since the end of hostilities in the Korean War with a military parade. These colorful images come from 
 
 Pyongyang's main square, a show North Koreans celebrating what the government there calls "Victory Day". Russia's defense minister and a 
 
 member of China's politburo joined North Korean leader Kim Jong-un for the event. It's been 70 years since the armistice agreement that ended the 
 
 fighting on the Korean Peninsula. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden hopes an executive order will better protect victims of sexual assault and other serious crimes in the military. Today, 
 
 he's signing an order that moves the prosecution of such cases outside the military chain of command. That simply means when someone reports a sexual 
 
 assault or other serious offense, it will not be handled by the alleged victims' commanders. The White House calls it the most significant 
 
 transformation of the military justice system since 1950. 
 
And we are about a month away from the two-year anniversary of the full withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan. The Taliban took over when the 
 
 U.S.-backed Afghan government collapsed. Around 90,000 Afghans have resettled in the U.S. since then, but hundreds of others have been living 
 
 in limbo. And for some, the long wait for a better life has a very unhappy ending. Nick Paton Walsh digs deeper into their struggles. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR:  It was the end of America's longest war, the worst of days. As Kabul fell to the Taliban and 
 
 its airport became the last chance for salvation, the United States pledged those who helped it would have a new life in America.
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  Those who helped this are not going to be left behind. But nearly two years later, not only are some Afghans who've been 
 
 officially told they should get visas to America still waiting in neighboring Pakistan, some have waited so long, CNN can reveal they've been 
 
 deported back to Afghanistan, sent back by Pakistani police to the Taliban they fled. 
 
UNKNOWN:  They stopped and told us, so we give you 24 hours deadline. We should not see you and Pakistan land.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  CNN spoke to two Afghans who now back in hiding in Kabul had paperwork confirming they were being processed for the U.S. so-
 
 called Afghan P2 visas.
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
UNKNOWN:   This is very, very dangerous, and it is very tough. You know that how many people have been killed, have been terrorized, have 
 
 disappeared. They will punish me, they will put me in jail, maybe they will kill me. I'm sure they will. Still, we believe that USA will help us. We 
 
 believe, we didn't lose our hope7, still." 
 
WALSH:  Another said he hadn't even told close family of his return to Kabul or deportation. 
 
UNKNOWN:  They did not hand us over to the Afghan border forces. They just released us on the border and told us to go back to Afghanistan. Also, they 
 
 did not give us any deportation document. It was me, my four kids, and my wife who got deported together. 
 
WALSH:  For some, desperation means it is already too late. This is where one of two Afghan men waiting for U.S. visas took their own lives in the 
 
 past two months, throwing himself from the sixth floor here according to activists. Hundreds of Afghans have been deported from Pakistan in recent 
 
 months, say human rights groups. No distinction apparently made for those with a promise of a U.S. visa. 
 
Last week, Afghans in Pakistan waiting for U.S. visas staged a protest. CNN spoke to several who complained of police harassment and feared greatly 
 
 deportation to Afghanistan. One described how the Taliban had beaten him senseless in Kabul before he fled, but that he now fears the Pakistani 
 
 police's harassment. 
 
UNKNOWN:  They were asking for visa. There were a lot of policemen. They came into the house without clear information. And they took me out of 
 
 home. And they were just putting me in the van. In my case, they were very much hurt. They were crying. And they were asking for help. 
 
WALSH:  He described how he once saved his American colleagues during a protest and had letters denoting his service. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Of course, I am disappointed because the way that I served the American in Afghanistan and you know, I was expecting them to welcome me 
 
 the sooner. It seems like I have no future at all. 
 
WALSH:  The U.S. State Department told CNN, the Biden administration, quote, "continues to demonstrate its commitment to the brave Afghans who 
 
 worked with the U.S." But added there, "processing capacity in Pakistan remains limited", but they are actively working to expand it. And they 
 
 urged Afghanistan's neighbors to, quote, "keep their borders open and uphold their obligations when it comes to asylum seekers". Pakistan's 
 
 foreign ministry declined to comment. Another family were also harassed by Pakistani police. The father briefly jailed. 
 
UNKNOWN:  It's a very bad situation for my family -- for me and for my family. I think it's a bad dream. 
 
WALSH:  His wife broke down. 
 
UNKNOWN:  Save us from Pakistan. I can't come back to Afghanistan. Come back to Afghanistan equal with this. And here we are dying every moment and 
 
 stay in Pakistan is a gradual death. 
 
WALSH (voice-over):  Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER:  All right, still to come here, Vladimir Putin says he will consider a plan to bring peace to Ukraine as he tries to court African leaders and 
 
 shore up allies at a high-profile summit. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER:  Hello and welcome back to ONE WORLD. Let's catch up on the headlines. The U.S. Embassy in Haiti is advising U.S. nationals to leave 
 
 the country immediately. The State Department is warning of a high threat of violence, of kidnapping, especially in the capital, especially in Port-
 
 au-Prince. Armed gangs and government corruption have turned the Caribbean nation into a lawless state. 
 
Dangerous heat engulfs much of the U.S. today, as more than 150 million people are under heat alerts. The northeast is getting a taste of the 
 
 blistering heat. New York City will likely see some of the hottest temperatures of the year so far with a heat index of about 40 degrees 
 
 Celsius. And Philadelphia has declared a state of heat emergency.
 
A pair of exciting matches at the Women's World Cup on Friday. England top Denmark 1-0 to take control of their group. But it was not without a prize. 
 
 Star Midfielder Keira Walsh appeared to badly injure her knee in the match. Meantime, China managed to defeat Haiti 1-0, despite a red card that left 
 
 China with just 10 players for most of the match. 
 
And we are about 30 minutes away from a working dinner in St. Petersburg. And while Vladimir Putin is welcoming his guests with food and drink, 
 
 across the border, his unprovoked war on Ukraine rages on. He says that he'll discuss the war over dinner and even listen to a proposal from 
 
 African leaders about how to end it. Many are, of course, skeptical about that. 
 
Cyril Ramaphosa is one of the 17 heads of state attending the Russia-Africa summit this year. Earlier, he welcomed what he's calling Moscow's increased 
 
 economic cooperation with the African continent and he stressed the need for constructive negotiation when it comes to conflict. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CYRIL RAMAPHOSA, SOUTH AFRICAN PRESIDENT:  As South Africa, we are steadfast in our position that negotiation and dialogue and adherence to 
 
 the United Nations Charter are necessary for the peaceful and just resolution of conflicts. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER:  CNN's David McKenzie joins us live now from Johannesburg. So, there are many African leaders who are skipping the summit in St. Petersburg this 
 
 time around, David, but obviously not Cyril Ramaphosa. Just explain to us the infatuation that the South African government seems to have with 
 
 Vladimir Putin, seems to have with Russia at this point in time. Obviously, there are economic ties, but does it go back beyond that? Is this also 
 
 about the legacy of the Soviet Union, as well? Just walk us through that. 
 <br>[12:30:00]
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, infatuation is your word, not mine, but I think that's a good starting point, Zain. And 
 
 that leads us into a very important conversation. Yes, there are very, very deep ties with the Soviet Union and the ruling ANC because of the support 
 
 the Soviet Union gave the liberation movement here in South Africa during the dark days of apartheid, especially when people fled this country into 
 
 exile, into military camps. They were given training and support from the Soviet Union, when, at that time, the U.S. at least wasn't pushing to end 
 
 apartheid. That would later change, of course. And President Biden was instrumental, in fact, in the Senate on that. 
 
But when you move past history into present day, the economic ties with Russia are not that important on a black-and-white nature for South Africa, 
 
 if you look at it on paper and many people are asking why this infatuation, this support or at least this embrace, as you saw there with Ramaphosa and 
 
 Putin, of South African leaders with Russia. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over):  South Africa's policy on paper is non-alignment on the Ukraine wall. But its actions have deeply angered Western powers, 
 
 consistently refusing to condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine at the U.N. General Assembly. In February, hosting naval war games with Russia and 
 
 China on the anniversary of the start of the war, a powerful propaganda moment for Putin. 
 
And the U.S. ambassador publicly rebuked the government and ruling ANC, claiming there was intelligence showing weapons and ammunition loaded on a 
 
 sanctioned cargo ship bound for Russia in December. It's now subject of a government inquiry. 
 
REUBEN E. BRIGETY II, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO SOUT AFRICA:  The observable gap between the rhetoric and the reality of the government's professed policy 
 
 of non-alignment and neutrality. 
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over):  The question is, why? We've travelled to the remote Kalahari. In this desert soil, a highly-lucrative manganese belt used in 
 
 making steel. And the United Manganese of Kalahari Mines, or UMK. First revealed by non-profit investigators at AmaBhungane (ph), UMK has deep 
 
 financial ties to this man, Victor Wexelberg, a Russian oligarch linked to Vladimir Putin and to South Africa. 
 
Here he is in 2006 in Cape Town. The U.S. Treasury sanctioned Vexelberg in 2018 and again in 2022 for supporting Putin's invasion of Ukraine. Last 
 
 year, Spanish authorities and the FBI seized his $90 million super yacht Tango. Despite the sanctions, Vexelberg still holds an important interest 
 
 in UMK, according to business records held in Cyprus, another significant player holding company Chancellor House, for years channeling funds to the 
 
 ruling African National Congress. According to publicly available declarations, since 2021, UMK and Chancellor House combined have 
 
 contributed at least $2.9 million to the financially struggling ANC. 
 
MCKENZIE, (on-camera):  This is a highly lucrative operation and anti- corruption activists say that these alleged linkages pose serious questions. Is South Africa's policy towards Russia on the world stage 
 
 influenced by money? 
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over):  Is it possible that foreign policy also has a link to corruption or at the very least to a conflict of interest? 
 
KARAM SINGH, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, CORRUPTION WATCH:  I think this is an increasing concern that we're now more alive to than ever before. That 
 
 there could be foreign money from a Russian origin that comes into South Africa, that flows into different political coffers. And I think that could 
 
 absolutely have an impact upon, you know, how South Africa takes positions on certain policies.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over):  Substantial investment, referential trade policies and critical foreign aid from the U.S. and European Union are crucial to 
 
 South Africa, the world's most unequal country, dwarfing Russia's contribution in both trade and aid. 
 
STEVEN GRUZD, RUSSIA-AFRICA ANALYST, SAIIA:  I think South Africa is playing a dangerous game here. And indeed sometimes politicians are putting 
 
 the political party, the ANC, before the needs of the citizens because it just doesn't make sense to be so closely associated with Russia when the 
 
 stakes are so high and there's so much at risk. 
 
MCKENZIE:  And what does that risk for South Africa? 
 
GRUZD:  So, it risks investment, it risks trade, it risks jobs, it risks economic growth. 
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
It risks the currency, it risks isolation from the West. I think there's a lot at stake here. 
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over):  A lot at stake for a country that has much to lose. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCKENZIE (on-camera):  Chancellor House, UMK and Bexelburg's Renova group all denied wrong doings, Zain, and any influence on the ANC and its 
 
 policies. They say their donations are above board, legal and without preconditions. Interestingly, the ANC and their leadership did not agree to 
 
 sit down with us on this topic or provide any kind of statement. Zain.
 
ASHER:  Dave McKenzie, great reporting on that story. Thank you so much. Time now for The Exchange and a closer look at the summit in St. 
 
 Petersburg. Let's bring in Mvemba Phezo Dizolele, he's the director of the Africa program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. 
 
Mvemba, thank you so much for being with us. David, my correspondent, was focused on South Africa's ties to Russia. I want to focus on Russia's ties 
 
 to Africa more broadly. In 2019, at the last Africa-Russia summit, there were about 43 heads of state from the continent that attended. This time 
 
 it's only 17. What does that tell you? Does that tell you that Russia's influence on the continent may indeed be waning? What are your thoughts?
 
MVEMBA PHEZO DIZOLELE, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES:   Thank you, Zain, for the invitation. It simply means that we are at the 
 
 turning point for the relationship between Russia and African countries. Remember that, of course, the last summit which happened in Sochi happened 
 
 pre-pandemic. The conditions were different. 
 
Today, the summit is happening in the middle of the Ukraine war which was initiated by Russia. African countries have been under tremendous pressure 
 
 to take a side which a lot of them has resisted. As they go to the summit, Russia has not shown that they can offer as much as the Africans expect of 
 
 them. They went there with some level of skepticism and they're still waiting to see what Russia can deliver. So, this combination of things made 
 
 it that only a certain number of presidents were present. 
 
ASHER:  And when you think about the headache that this war in Ukraine has caused for African nations, especially nations in East Africa. You know, 
 
 first and foremost, you have Russia pulling out of the Black Sea grain deal. On top of that, you also have Russia bombing Ukrainian ports in 
 
 Odessa and also bombing port grain, rather, grain warehouses, as well. In one attack last week, last week Wednesday, I believe, there were 60,000 
 
 tons of Ukrainian grains that were completely destroyed. That, by the way, is enough to feed a quarter of a million people for one year, for one year. 
 
So, when you think about just how much this war has cost Africans in terms of lives and livelihood and food insecurity, based on all that, why do so 
 
 many African nations still see Russia as a reliable partner? 
 
DIZOLELE:  I'm not sure if they see Russia as a reliable partner. They see Russia as a partner. Africans are convinced that they're better served in a 
 
 multipolar world, which we are in today, where there's not just one cent of power. Traditionally, it's been the West. Now, there is Russia, there is 
 
 also China, and other emerging powers. Africans feel comfortable with that equation. 
 
Now, if you want to speak specifically about Russia, the expectations of Africans as they went into the summit was that after Russia pulled out of 
 
 the U.N.-brokered deal about the grain business, that Russia will somehow come out with a very large proposition, a very attractive proposition to 
 
 the Africans by unilaterally releasing a lot of grains. They've been surprised because Russia only promised to give grain, free grain that is, 
 
 to six countries. And those countries outside of Somalia have very close ties with Russia. 
 
ASHER:  Right.
 
DIZOLELE:  So, in many ways this is a --
 
ASHER:  It's where either the Wagner group are already present or want to be present. 
 
DIZOLELE:  Correct. So, in the end, it's only Somalia, that kind of, that approach that means like, or maybe there's some humanitarian effort here. 
 
 So, the question is, what was all that about when Russia decided to pull out the U.N- brokered deal? So, what was that about? We are in a situation 
 
 now where Africans have to rethink what exactly the type of relationship will be they will maintain with Russia. They, I think, have their own 
 
 principles. We have to keep in mind that every country has its own natural interests. But this doesn't look good for Russia. It doesn't necessarily 
 
 build any more trust than what was there before the summit. 
 <br>[12:40:00]
 
African nations, several African leaders are proposing a peace plan, and they're presenting it to Vladimir Putin. They did present it to Vladimir 
 
 Putin today, saying, listen, this is how we believe that you can end the war in Ukraine. Vladimir Putin says, okay, I'm going to take this very, 
 
 very seriously. Do the nations that are represented at this summit today genuinely believe that Vladimir Putin is actually going to take their peace 
 
 plan seriously?
 
DIZOLELE:  Vladimir Putin will do Vladimir Putin. So, he will not take the Africans seriously. I think Africans, while they will present a high level 
 
 of leverage that Russia needs, I mean, the Africans need Russia, Russia need Africans. So, it's not just like Africans are going there as beggars 
 
 because of the grain issue. Russia needs Africans because we saw what happened last year during the Ukraine resolution. A certain number of 
 
 African countries voted for the resolution. Another half of the countries did not either vote at all. They didn't show up or they abstained. Only 
 
 Eritrea voted against the resolution. 
 
So, Africans have leverage. The problem with African countries is they cannot continue relying on other countries to feed them. Africa is home to 
 
 a large amount, a large space of arable lands. Africa should be able to feed itself and feed the world. So, this should be a wake-up call for 
 
 African. 
 
We need to look in the mirror and ask themselves, what are we doing? Why do we have to rush everywhere around the world for this summit? I think a lot 
 
 of African leaders are already tired of this. Let's go over here for this summit. Let's go over here for another summit. But I think the bottom line 
 
 is a question of governance. How committed are African leaders to food security? 
 
ASHER:  I think you bring up, I mean to be fair, you do bring up a very important point and that's something that we've discussed on the show many, 
 
 many times, this idea of Africa becoming much more self-sustainable, you know, because the idea of going to Vladimir Putin or going around the world 
 
 and relying on food from other countries, especially two countries that are at war, we have no idea how long that war is going to last, is clearly 
 
 problematic. 
 
Mvemba, we have to leave it there. Thank you so much for coming on the program. All right, still to come here on ONE WORLD. We speak with the 
 
 creative mind behind Netflix's newest animated series, Super Team 4, as the show sets a milestone for the streaming giant. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
ASHER:  Streaming content just got a little bit better. Netflix has picked up its first ever African animated series called Super Team Four. The 
 
 series follows four teenage girls living in a futuristic version of Lusaka, Zambia. The girls are recruited by a secret agent to help save the world. 
 
 Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
"SUPA TEAM FOUR" SERIES:  I have built super suits distinctive to each of you. They've been designed to boost each of your natural abilities. They'll 
 
 keep you safe and protect your identity. All this talk about a suit. So, what's with the watch? Huh? Can I get a - whoa. Whoa! 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER:  My five-year-old would absolutely love this show. Joining us live now is the show's creator, Malenga Mulendema. Malenga, thank you so much 
 
 for being with us. I think the first question I have for you is, you know, based on the premise of this show, I can see that representation is 
 
 something that is really important to you. Just explain to our audience why for young children at home, who might be minorities, for example, why is it 
 
 so important for them to grow up, seeing heroes that look like them on television?
 
MALENGA MULENDEMA, CREATOR, "SUPA TEAM 4":  Thank you for having me. I think it's quite simple. I mean, we are here and we're living and we're 
 
 thriving. So, it's wonderful, you know, to tell stories through your perspective and see stories through your perspective, your environment and 
 
 through characters that look like you. So, I mean, we enjoy stories from all over the world, but once in a while, you want to see yourself, see sort 
 
 of your world explored through something as fun as this. So, I think that's basically what we're trying to achieve with the show. 
 
ASHER:  And I think what's interesting is that you're also trying to strike a balance between, so obviously the show is set in a futuristic version of 
 
 Zambia, so you also have to ensure that the way the animated town comes across is authentic to what Africa looks like, but also combats stereotypes 
 
 about what people think Africa is like. How do you juggle that balance? 
 
MULENDEMA:  I think the first thing is not to lead with, you know, what do people think of us, right? So, we're leaning into what is our world. And 
 
 that's what, you know, our great team of, you know, artists looked at. We were inspired by Lusaka and as people can see when they tune into the show, 
 
 you can see the patterns. I mean, we make it a little bit more vibrant, but you can see it still captures the essence of Lusaka city. 
 
So, I mean, there's certain things that are quite familiar to people living in Zambia, but also, I think, across the continent, there's so many 
 
 elements of the city that feel very, very familiar to, you know, to Lusakans and also, you know, across the continent, people can see and feel 
 
 that this is quite a familiar place to them. 
 
ASHER:  But was it important to you to also fight stereotypes to not just about what Africa is like in terms of the place, but what African people 
 
 look and sound like and can and can't achieve?
 
MULENDEMA:  I think without even trying, we fight those stereotypes because, you know, like I said earlier, we were looking at ourselves. Who 
 
 are we looking at, thinking of the joys of childhood, memories, you know, characters that look like this, that we know, and then just mining from 
 
 that. So, we didn't sit down and start to assess what do people think of us, what are the negative stereotypes out there and how do we address them. 
 
So, we led with joy, lots of joy, lots of fun and lots of humor. So, I think that, you know, is evident as you watch the show. And I think, you 
 
 know, basically us just being who, I guess, combats those stereotypes, even if we did not initially think about, you know, addressing the negativity 
 
 that's out there. 
 
ASHER:  Right, so it sort of happened organically, it dismantled the stereotypes organically without you sort of setting out to do that. What do 
 
 you think your success means for African content creators more broadly who want to get their ideas and their material out to a more international 
 
 audience? 
 
MULENDEMA:  And I hope it means, you know, more opportunities for them. I hope it means more investment and collaborations, you know, partnerships, 
 
 because we have so many stories to tell. The talent is just overwhelming. So, I hope it means more stories coming out of the continent. 
 
ASHER:  And just in terms of how you got this big break, I mean, you were quite lucky in that you entered in a competition which you won, but what is 
 
 the traditional avenue for Zambian or African content creators who do want to make sure that their material is much more visible?
 
MULENDEMA:  It's quite interesting because I, seven, eight years ago, didn't know the avenues. You know, how to get into animation. But along the 
 
 journey, meeting so many creative people across the continent and beyond who've worked on the show. I mean, there are different ways of finding 
 
 yourself in the space. So, it's just a matter of, I think, the interest. And I think a show like this, people across the continent and beyond who've 
 
 worked on the show. 
 <br>[12:50:00]
 
I mean, there are different ways of finding yourself in the space. So it's just a matter of, I think, the interest. And I think a show like this and 
 
 other shows that have come out recently will spark that in a lot of young people. But I think there's so many avenues for young people to, you know, 
 
 venture into animation. So, it's difficult in the short space of time to break down. But I think there's so many ways that young people can explore 
 
 and get into the field. 
 
ASHER:  All right, Malenga, thank you. So, I can't wait to watch it. I'm going to add it to the list. My child doesn't actually watch that much TV, 
 
 but I'm going to make an exception for this. Malenga, thank you so much. We appreciate it. 
 
All right, we are following a couple of stories developing this hour. Kenya's Court of Appeals has lifted a temporary suspension that had blocked 
 
 implementation of tax hikes. The hikes have sparked deadly protests nationwide. The appeal judges agreed with the government that there would 
 
 be, quote, serious, irreversible economic consequences if the suspension continues. 
 
And we are looking at tense images from Peru, where massive crowds of protesters are demanding the resignation of President Dina Bulate. These 
 
 are live pictures from Lima. You can actually see people there facing off with police. This hour, the president is delivering her first State of the 
 
 Union after taking office as the new president of Peru in December, following the ouster of former President Pedro Castillo. 
 
Once again, protesters there in Lima, Peru, facing off against police officers. A lot of these protesters demanding the ouster of President Dina 
 
 Bulate, who they don't believe is the legitimate president of Peru after she took over in December. There have been months and months of protests 
 
 rattling this nation. They appeared at one point to be quieting down. But as you can see here, these protests are continuing. All right, we'll be 
 
 right back with more. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER:  All right, some breaking news for you into CNN. We are looking at very dramatic images from Peru, where protesters are facing off with police 
 
 officers. You see the sort of police barricade there in the middle of the street with shields.
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
Police officers there having shields in front of them, as protesters essentially attack them, throwing sticks at them, throwing stones at them. 
 
 These protesters, what they say want at this point in time is the resignation of the current president of Peru, President Dina Bulate, who 
 
 became president in December after the ouster of the former president, Pedro Castillo. Pedro Castillo was somebody who a lot of people felt 
 
 represented the ordinary working people of Peru. 
 
Many people felt that he was ousted in an unfair manner. And I'm sorry, somebody -- okay. Many people feel as though President Dina Bulate was 
 
 reinstated illegitimately or became president of Peru illegitimately. Police right now are calling for reinforcements. Protesters right now also 
 
 want the dissolution of Congress. They are converging on the historical parts of Peru.
 
Once again, these are very dramatic images of protesters throwing sticks, throwing stones, throwing all sorts of objects at Peruvian police right 
 
 now. All right, that does it for us here on ONE WORLD. Thank you so much for watching. I'm Zain Asher. "AMANPOUR" is up next. You're watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END