Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Trump Involved in Four Separate Criminal Investigations; Video Shows Moments Leading Up to Explosion in Russian Cafe; Finland to Join NATO in Historic Security Policy Shift; How Disney Toot on DeSantis in Fight Central to His Image; UConn Beats San Diego State 76-59, Wins 5th Title. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired April 04, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR:  I'm Max Foster. If you're just joining us, let's bring you up to date with the top stories this hour.
 
We are just hours away from Donald Trump's arrangement at a New York court, where sources say he faces more than 30 criminal charges. The judge will allow only five photographers to take still photos of Trump and the proceeding before the hearing begins. 
 
And just a day before his arraignment. We learned that Trump added new lead counsels to his legal team. Experts say it's a sign his team is taking the case seriously. 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: But the alleged hush money case in New York is just one of several illegal headaches for Trump. CNN's Brian Todd brings us the latest on all four criminal investigations. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): From the Stormy Daniels hush money case to the Mar-a-Lago documents probe, to the election interference grand jury in Georgia, and the federal January 6 inquiry, Donald Trump is entangled in a web of investigations targeting him from many directions.
 
ELLIOTT WILLIAMS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: It's pretty remarkable that you have multiple different states, the federal government all investigating the same person at once. But that person is the former president of the United States.
 
TODD (voiceover): Trump now faces no fewer than four separate criminal probes. There's a history making indictment in the Daniels case in New York, where Trump reportedly faces 30 plus counts related to business fraud. 
 
In Washington, a special counsel was appointed by the Justice Department to oversee a criminal investigation into whether Trump tried to interfere with the results of the 2020 election and whether he incited the January 6 attack.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're going to walk down to the Capitol.
 
TODD (voiceover): There's the Justice Department's Mar-a-Lago investigation into whether Trump illegally mishandled classified documents when he brought them to his Florida estate after leaving the White House. 
 
CNN now reporting federal prosecutors have obtained new evidence in the obstruction probe in that case, evidence like texts, emails and photographs. 
 
And in Georgia, Fulton County D.A. Fani Willis is overseeing a special grand jury looking into whether Trump and his allies tried to overturn Joe Biden's 2020 election victory in Georgia, by allegedly setting up fake electors and pressuring the Secretary of State to, quote, find more votes for Trump. 
 
Which of these cases might be the most likely to bring convictions against the former president?
 
JENNIFER RODGERS, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: I think the case that poses the greatest threat of the former president actually serving prison time is the Mar-a-Lago documents case, that's being investigated by the special counsel. And the evidence, at least from what we've seen publicly seems quite strong.
 
TODD (voiceover): Conversely, which case against Trump could be the weakest?
 
RODGERS: I think the one that maybe isn't going to get across the finish line is the federal January 6th case. I don't think there'll be able to charge the former president with seditious conspiracy, and I don't know whether they're going to charge him with anything on the January 6 side of things.
 
TODD: Donald Trump has repeatedly rejected the allegations in each of these investigations, characterizing them as facets of a witch hunt designed to take him down. He's called the Mar-a-Lago investigation, the weaponization of the justice system, and he slammed the Georgia and New York probes as being politically motivated. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Russian state media reports that detained American journalists, Evan Gershkovich has filed an appeal against his arrest. No date has been set for hearing his appeal. 
 
FOSTER: Gershkovich was arrested last week after Russia accused him of trying to obtain state secrets, an accusation denied by his employer, he "Wall Street Journal." He faces up to 20 years in prison. 
 
Russian state media reporting that a hearing expected today for the woman detained in connection with the blast that killed a prominent Russian military blogger. NOBILO: The suspect, antiwar protester Daria Trepova. Her husband has
 
 told an independent publication that he believes that she was set up. New images from inside a St. Petersburg cafe just moments before the deadly explosion shown interaction between Trepova and blogger Vladlen Tatarsky. Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADLEN TATARSKY, MILITARY BLOGGER (through translated text): Nastya, Nastya, come here.
 
DARIA TREPOVA (through translated text): I'm shy.
 
TATARSKY (through translated text): Sit here of here. Sit over on the chair.
 
TREPOVA (through translated text): I'll sit over there. I am too shy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Now the blogger supported the war and gained popularity for his analysis and commentary after Russia invaded. Authorities in Russia are now calling the case a terrorist attack or act and suggest it was planned and organized in Ukraine. 
 
NOBILO: Finland is set to be formally welcomed into the NATO alliance today. An empty flagpole now sits among the other NATO nations flags outside the headquarters in Brussels, where the Finnish flag will be raised in the coming hours. 
 
FOSTER: Finland's membership coincides with meetings amongst NATO foreign ministers that includes U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who will hold one on one talks with Ukraine's foreign minister. 
 
CNN's Nada Bashir is monitoring this historic day for NATO, and she joins us now. Nada, obviously one of Russia's stated objectives with its special operation as it calls it, invasion of Ukraine was to deal with NATO encroachment and to stop it. So having less NATO not more. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
Obviously, we're seeing more NATO doubling of Russia's border with NATO because of Finland's 830-mile border. This can't be good news for Putin. Are we expecting reaction from Russia? 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, look, this has been a key focus since the beginning of the invasion. This was in fact, the invasion being a key spark for both Finland and Sweden to apply for NATO membership back in May of last year. 
 
We've heard that repeated and continuous criticism from the Kremlin of potential expansion of NATO along Russia's borders. This has been something they have been trying to avoid. And in fact, over the course of the invasion of Ukraine, we've only seen NATO strengthened and more unified as a body. And of course, now the prospect of not only Finland joining today but
 
 also the prospect of potentially Sweden joining at a later date will be a significant concern for Moscow. This has been a key focus for them, of course, with fears that Ukraine could one day also join the NATO alliance. 
 
But of course, this is a significant step for the NATO alliance, a 31st member. We've heard from Jens Stoltenberg, the Secretary General, speaking yesterday. He described this as a historic step for Finland, for the Nordic region and for NATO as a whole. But also said that he is optimistic that this could be laying the groundwork for Sweden to join at some point. 
 
Of course, we've seen that being a key sticking point of the last few months, intense negotiations between Sweden, Finland and crucially, Turkey and Hungary, who have been holding up at the ratification process. There are -- those talks are still ongoing; one would come to Sweden. But of course, there is a real focus on the potential for that to continue to expand, and that will be a real concern for Moscow. 
 
NOBILO: And even though this accession of Finland and potentially Sweden in the coming months or year is clearly good news for NATO, from a strategic and geographic perspective. But has it also exposed some underlying tensions? I'm thinking, particularly Erdogan's objections. But at least those have been clearly stated, whereas Hungary has also been responsible for delays, and they haven't really provided the same level of explanation for NATO allies to respond to as Turkey has.
 
BASHIR: Absolutely, and that has been a key focus. Of course, Turkey taking part in those talks and negotiations over the last few weeks and months with both Sweden and with Finland. Turkey, focusing primarily on its concerns when it comes to Sweden on allegations that Sweden has been harboring and being too lenient when it comes to groups that Turkey identifies as terrorist organizations. Namely those associated with the Kurdistan Workers' Party, which is banned in Turkey. 
 
And of course, when it comes to Hungary, we've heard from the Prime Minister's spokesperson said that Hungary still has a number of grievances when it comes to Sweden's potential ratification. Those grievances haven't been outlined as clearly as Turkey. Perhaps, although they have said they have concerns over Sweden's approach to Hungary when it comes to descriptions of Hungary's democratic process and the strength of Hungary's democracy. 
 
But of course, it isn't as clear as it has been with Turkey, where they were clear lines to discuss. We saw policy changes in both Stockholm and Helsinki. 
 
The question of whether Hungary will have any progress when it comes to talks with Sweden is still remains to be seen. 
 
NOBILO: Nada Bashir, thank you. 
 
FOSTER: Thank you, Nada. I just heard Disney CEO Bob Iger accuses Florida Governor Ron DeSantis
 
 of antibusiness practices. Details on the latest clash between the company and the probable presidential candidate. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Crowds in Tennessee gathered at the state capital on Monday, calling for stricter gun control laws after -- a week after a deadly school shooting in Nashville. Hundreds of parents, students and faculty from schools in Nashville walked out of classes to participate in the March for Our Lives. Marchers held signs with messages directed at lawmakers like, why are your guns more important than my life and ends with us. 
 
Meanwhile police say the Nashville shooter, quote, acted totally alone when opening fire at the school. The FBI and local police are still reviewing writings left behind by Audrey Hale, but they say it's clear the shooter spent months planning to, quote, commit mass murder. Three children, a school custodian, a substitute teacher and the head of the school were killed as the shooter fired 152 rounds during the attack. No motive has been released by authorities so far. 
 
Disney CEO Bob Iger has slammed Florida Governor Ron DeSantis in the state legislature for restricting the company's autonomy. Iger told shareholders that the state's actions were, quote, antibusiness and anti-Florida. It's the latest development in the fight between the Sunshine State's governor and central Florida's largest employer. Randi Kaye has this story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RON DESANTIS (R) FLORIDA GOVERNOR: Now there's a new sheriff in town. We've taken away their self-governing status. There's a lot of little back and forth going on now with the state taken control. But rest assured, you know, you ain't seen nothing yet. 
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Florida governor Ron DeSantis talking about signing a bill last month to give himself new power over Disney in what amounted to a state takeover of the special taxing district. For decades, that district has provided the entertainment giant control of its theme parks in the land around them. But Disney had something else in mind. 
 
RON PERI, CENTRAL FLORIDA TOURISM OVERSIGHT DISTRICT BOARD MEMBER: I cannot tell you the level of my disappointment in Disney.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Disappointed because DeSantis appointed board members, political allies who were brought in to oversee the new district, now seeing their power greatly diminished. Turns out Disney quietly cut a deal with the outgoing board just days before the state so-called hostile takeover.
 
BRIAN AUNGST JR., CENTRAL FLORIDA TOURISM OVERSIGHT DISTRICT BOARD MEMBER: This development agreement essentially strips the government of the government powers and give those powers to Disney. KAYE: On February 8th, as the Florida legislature met in a special session, Disney and the previous board hammered out a series of agreements to transfer nearly all of the district's powers to Disney for the next 30 years. In fact, the board can't take action, in some cases without first getting approval from the company.
 
AUNGST: It was done to prevent us from doing our job, and that is offensive to me.
 
KAYE (voice-over): The terms spelled out in one agreement signed by the outgoing board restricts the new board from using Disney's fanciful characters until 21 years after the death of the last survivor of the descendants of King Charles III, King of England.
 
PERI: This essentially makes Disney the government.
 
DANIEL LANGLEY, SPECIAL GENERAL COUNSEL: I cannot imagine Orange County, Osceola County, the city of Orlando, or any other central government -- central Florida government -- allowing or agreeing to allow any private developer or property owner to have this sort of control over a government and the officials that run it.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
KAYE (voice-over): Our attempts to reach any of the board members, new and old, were unsuccessful. Governor DeSantis office did send us a statement saying the governor is aware of Disney's last-ditch efforts. And in this letter DeSantis's office sent us today, the governor is requesting the State's Inspector General launch a criminal and civil investigation into actions taken by the outgoing board.
 
These collusive and self-dealing arrangements aim to nullify the recently passed legislation, the letter says. Adding the deal appears to suffer from serious legal infirmities, including, among other things, inadequate notice.
 
Despite that, Disney is standing firm telling CNN: All agreements signed between Disney and the district were appropriate and were discussed and approved in open noticed public forums in compliance with Florida's government and the Sunshine Law."
 
In fact, the notes from that February 8th meeting include the notice of meeting that was published in the "Orlando Sentinel" newspaper on January 27th, alerting readers that a final public forum on the issue was scheduled for February 8th. Also included in the meeting notes, receipts for advertising the public forum.
 
Randi Kaye, CNN, Orlando. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Roy McGrath, a one time chief of staff to former Maryland Governor Larry Hogan, has died after a nationwide manhunt for him ended in a confrontation with the FBI. That word from McGrath's attorney who says the incident happened in the Knoxville, Tennessee area. NOBILO: Earlier the FBI said there'd been an agent involved shooting
 
 incident. McGrath faced challenges related to an alleged scheme to bilk Maryland out of more than $276,000. He pleaded not guilty and was released on bond. But in arrest warrant was issued after he failed to appear for his trial last month. 
 
FOSTER: March Madness is over and the Connecticut Huskies all the top dogs.
 
Pandemonium, you know, imagine erupted on campus after the men's team added another championship to their trophy case. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is the fifth time winning and being on campus and being a student here. It's just it's not the feeling. You know you're here during history, so it's pretty awesome. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: We're going into March Madness. The University of Connecticut already was considered one of college basketball's blue bloods. Now they've extended their winning tradition with 76-59 victory over San Diego State in Monday night's championship game. They're just the sixth team to win at least five men's basketball championships. 
 
CNN's Coy Wire has more from Houston, where he watched it, all happen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS: The University of Connecticut a four seed in this tournament, turning in one of the most dominant performances of any team in any March Madness ever. Coach Dan Hurley's Huskies play with heart. He told me his team doesn't have an Achilles heel to outrebounded you, play harder, beat you at the rim and make the three. They did all of that against San Diego State. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Every dog has his day and belongs to the Huskies. 
 
WIRE: As for their leader, the son of a hall of fame coach, the younger brother of a legendary Duke point guard, coach Dan Hurley, has created his own Hurley legacy now. 
 
By his side all season, his own son, Andrew, a junior guard on the team. Coach Hurley told me that his son is like his therapist, always keeping him calm and focused. 
 
ANDREW HURLEY, UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT GUARD: I just tried to contribute any way I can. And if that's one of them, so be it. But you know, it means a lot just to be around him every day. 
 
WIRE (voice-over): I walked with the newly crowned champion coach back to the locker room on his way to celebrate their 76-59 win. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes baby, let's go. 
 
COACH DAN HURLEY, UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT MEN'S BASKETBALL TEAM: Do you know what? You just -- you're so proud that you're able to deliver on the promise you made to university that we could get this program back. And then the promises you made to the players that we can do something special like this together. 
 
WIRE: When I talked to you yesterday -- when I talk to you, coach, you said you got emotional thinking about the fans and all the love they give you. What message do you have for them now? 
 
D. HURLEY: I'm crazy. You know, I'm a maniac just like our fan base. So, I think that's why we're such a great fit for each other. And I just can't -- we cannot wait to get back to Connecticut and celebrate and share it with them. 
 
WIRE: Congrats, champ. 
 
D. HURLEY: HURLEY: Yes. Let's go, baby. All right. Appreciate you. 
 
WIRE (voice-over): The huskies, winning their fifth national title, had fans overcome with emotion. 
 
WIRE: What does this win mean to you? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It means everything. Everything. 
 
WIRE: With their staggering 20-point average margin of victory this tournament, the Yukon Huskies are your 2022-2023 men's national champions. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: American gymnast Suni Lee has announced that she'll be stepping away from the Auburn Tigers gymnastics team as she deals with a kidney related health issue. 
 
FOSTER: Lee says it's been challenging to end her college gymnastics career early but says she'll I still hope to compete for the U.S. at the 2024 Olympics in Paris. The 20 year old won the individual all time, all around gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics nearly two years ago. 
 
NOBILO: The price of cryptocurrency Dogecoin jumped on Monday after Twitter owner Elon Musk replace the social media sites logo with the image of a Shiba Inu dog. The dog's breed is linked to popular Internet meme, which inspired the name Dogecoin. 
 
FOSTER: Now we know. 
 
NOBILO: Now we know.
 
FOSTER: Musk tweeted quote as promised above an image of a year-old conversation in which it was suggested that he purchased Twitter and change its logo. The prank is thought to be a nod to a legal battle between Musk and Dogecoin investors.
 
NOBILO: It would have been good if you've done it on April Fools Day. 
 
FOSTER: Yes. NASA naming the four astronauts who will orbit the moon for the first time in more than half a century. Reid Wiseman, Christina Koch, Victor Glover and Jeremy Hansen are scheduled for blastoff next year.
 <br>[04:55:03]
 
NOBILO: Koch will be the first woman. Hansen will be the first Canadian and Glover will be the first person of color to travel so far into space. After their mission, Nasa plans to land another crew on the lunar surface in 2025 or 2026. That hasn't been done since the Apollo program ended in 1972. 
 
And Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson says he's reprising his role in a live action version of one of Disney's most popular animated films. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: God. What can I say? Except you're welcome for the tides, the sun, the sky. Hey it's OK, it's OK. You're welcome. I'm just an ordinary kind of guy ... 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Johnson will reprise the role as Maui from the Polynesian themed animated feature "Moana." He said the story is emblematic of the great -- I mean, I mean, and the and the warrior strength of his people. The animated film was a box office hit grossing more than $600 million worldwide after it debuted in 2016. It's not easy doing this when you're reporting. 
 
NOBILO: No, it really isn't. I do apologize for the mispronunciations on the show today. 
 
FOSTER: All those Disney fans, deeply offensive. 
 
NOBILO: Yes, but they have that to look forward to. 
 
FOSTER: Absolutely, and I've heard it's great. 
 
Thanks for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster.
 
NOBILO: And I'm Bianca Nobilo. Our coverage of Donald Trump's arraignment continues on "CNN THIS MORNING" next.
 <br>[05:00:00]