Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: McConnell Speaks on Senate Floor After Lates Freezing Episode; Medal of Honor Awarded to Army Capt. Larry Taylor; Now Trial Sought for Murdaugh Over Alleged Jury Tampering. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired September 05, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY) MINORITY LEADER: And too little being done to boost the economy and help everyday people. So as the Senate gets back to work in Washington, I'll keep these conversations and concerns in the forefront of my mind. This month, of course, Congress needs to address our nation's most pressing needs. With timely appropriations and we need to keep the lights on from October 1st. 
 
Back in January, I pointed out that Washington Democrats, the new normal they faced. The American people have elected a divided government and demanding that we work together on our most basic governing responsibilities. 
 
Well, as I reminded our colleagues regularly since then, that meant funding the government through regular order. Been encouraging to see Senator Collins, Senator Murray and our colleagues on the Appropriations Committee make serious headway in that direction. And next week, we'll aim to pass the first batch of their work out here on the floor. 
 
We've also made clear that the Senate's top priority must be keeping the American people safe. And this month, we'll have a chance to do that with supplemental appropriations or urgent national security and disaster relief priorities. We need to continue to invest in America's defense industrial base. Both to support our partners in today's fight and to help our forces deter tomorrow's threats. 
 
And as our colleagues from Florida and Hawaii know all too well, emergency personnel are working overtime to help communities shattered by natural disasters over the summer. So the Senate reconvenes with out work cut out for us and a deadline fast approaching. I hope each of our colleagues has returned ready to do their part. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: All right, I wanna go now to the White House where the president will be awarding the Medal of Honor to Army Captain Larry Taylor. For what the White House calls conspicuous gallantry during the Vietnam War. It is the nation's, of course, highest military award for valor. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: ... young women and men from across the are going to arrive at Fort Moore, Georgia to attend Ranger School. One of the toughest military courses in the world. For nearly 20 hours every day, they'll run march, swim and climb. Some of the most challenging obstacles under the most grueling of conditions. 
 
But most importantly, they'll learn how to lead, studying the stories of our greatest nation's warriors. And include the story of a pilot who 55 years ago risked his own life to save a group of young soldiers like them. The pilot we honor today, Captain Larry Taylor. The Medal of Honor is our nations oldest and highest recognition of valor. Now when I called Larry to let him know he finally was receiving this recognition, his response was I thought you had to do something to receive the Medal of Honor. Let me say that again. He said. I thought you had to do something to receive the Medal of Honor. Larry you sure hell did something, man. 
 
If you ask anyone here. I'm pretty sure they'd say something -- you did something extraordinary. That includes our Secretary of the Defense Austin -- Secretary Austin. Secretary McDonough, the Army, the Secretary of the Army, Wormuth, Chairman Miley, and Senator -- where Senator. Senator Blackburn and also Senator Haggerty, who all joined us today. 
 
I also want to thank previous Medal of Honor recipients who have come to recognize their brother in arms, Paris Davis, Walter Marm and James McCloughan and Leroy PT -- Petry, excuse me. Gentlemen, you're the very best the nation has to offer. We owe you. The same goes for Sergeant David Hill, Vietnam veteran, former firefighter and as the last surviving member of Larry's Mission, the driving force behind his Medal of Honor nomination. 
 
On behalf of our nation, thank you all for being here. And finally, Tony, Larry learned many ranks and call signs throughout his military service. He earned them. Captain, Dark Horse, Mustang and probably a few we can't say out loud. Best left out of the presidential record, I guess. 
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
But I believe, say out lie. Best left out of the presidential record, I guess. But I believe I believe that Larry is most proud of being called your husband and it's an honor. It's an honor to have you both here as we give this heroism his full recognition that it deserves. 
 
Born in the volunteer state, raised by World War II veteran, duty to find Larry Taylor's life from his earliest days. As a young man, he volunteered to join the college ROTC unit at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Then after graduating in 1966, he commissioned as an armor officer. Larry had dreamed of leading -- and leading men in the battle, and what he called chariots of steel. 
 
But it didn't take many days on the ground for Larry to realize he belongs in the sky. He wanted to be a pilot, not just any pilot, a Cobra pilot flying the newest, fastest, deadliest army helicopter at the time. A gun ship built for only two people and their ammo. So when Larry has ordered -- and when was Larry's order -- was offered a spot to fly in the fighting first in Vietnam, he jumped at the chance. 
 
It was there that then Lieutenant Taylor would go above and beyond the Call of Duty, quite literally. June 18, 1968, it was pitch black. No moon, no stars, no light beyond the globe of Lieutenant Taylor's cockpit controls when he heard a whisper coming through his radio. We're surrounded. We're surrounded. That's what he heard. 
 
The call had come from a four-man Army patrol unit just northeast of Saigon. A unit that included Sergeant David Hill. Earlier that day, the men had set out to Recon the area. But in the dark, the men found themselves in the middle of the Vietnam -- Vietcong stronghold. Nearly 100 enemy soldiers now encircled their unit. The men picked up the radio and made a call. It was number longer a Recon mission. They needed a rescue mission. 
 
Without hesitation, Lieutenant Taylor and his co-pilot began racing toward them. Over the radio he laid out the game plan. He would use his Cobra to give the unit cover until a rescue helicopter could extract them. That was one. There was this one simple problem. It was pitch black. Lieutenant Taylor couldn't determine exactly where they were. So he asked his men to launch a flare, a move that revealed their location to him, but also to the enemy. 
 
Lieutenant Taylor knew the risk, but he was ready. Over the radio, he said, let's get to work. The flare went up and the flight was on. The enemy fire lit up the night. Lieutenant Taylor and his co-pilot dove down, positioning their Cobra nearly parallel with the Vietcong fighters. They flew dangerously at low levels for more than a half an hour, firing thousands of rounds of rockets to cover the ground. Cover the ground on which the men were. 
 
Then Lieutenant Taylor heard a sound. And that not only meant one thing, his helo was hit. And then it was hit again and again and again. At that point, according to Army standards, he could have left the fight. But Lieutenant Taylor had his own sacred standard. Quote, you never leave a man on the ground. End of quote. 
 
He tried to find an escape route for the unit, his Cobra taking more rounds as he did. He kept trying to radio for rescue, knowing that he and his men below were almost out of time and ammunition. On his last try, he learned that any attempt to save the men had been called off. The rescue helicopter was not coming. Instead, Lieutenant Taylor received a direct order, return to base. His response was just as direct. I'm getting my men out. I'm getting my men out. 
 
Lieutenant Taylor will perform the extraction himself. A maneuver never before accomplished in a Cobra. Remember, the Cobra was only a gunship only. It had no cabin for passengers. But that was the least of his problems. First Lieutenant Taylor needed to give his men a way out of the rice paddy, where they've been pinned down. He needed a diversion. So despite the fact that he had no rockets or rounds left, Lieutenant Taylor drew the enemy fire at himself. Using his landing light to trick the enemy into thinking he was still had ammo, he started making runs on the Vietcong fighters. 
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
The rouse worked a few times, but it was enough for the men to make it to the extraction point. They're still under heavy gunfire, Lieutenant Taylor landed. The man mounted the exterior of his of helo, clinging to the skids, climbing on the rocket pods. Within seconds, Lieutenant Taylor was back in the air, but the mission wasn't over. Lieutenant Taylor saw his fuel light flickering. He had started off with 16 -- 1,600 pounds of gas, and now he had about six. Not enough to make it back to base. 
 
Worse, the souls he was carrying were covered in wet mud and clinging to Cobra against 50 knot wind -- knots of wind. Even if he could make it back to base, his men would freeze or fall first. So he wants more and risked his own safety for his fellow teammates. He located a friendly area to set his bird down. The four men dismounted the helo and disappeared back into the pitch-black night. No moon, no stars, no light beyond the glow of their faces when they briefly turned and saluted Lieutenant Taylor for saving all four of their lives. 
 
You wouldn't see some of these men again until 30 years later at Army reunions. By that time, Lieutenant Taylor had long become Captain Taylor. He'd flown more than 2,000 combat missions. He received a Silver Star, a Bronze Star, two Distinguished Flying Crosses, and 43 air medals. 
 
Thank God, he's not putting them all on his chest. He's got trouble standing. Incredible. Now really think about it. It's incredible. But the greatest honor of all. Families showed up at these reunions too. They'd look for Larry. They hugged him. They'd say you don't know me, but you say my daddy's life. 
 
In a few days, young soldiers about the same age as Larry was during the dark night in Vietnam, they'll arrive at Ranger School. Like all of us today, they're inspired by his story -- and they will be. 
 
But how? By how he refused to give up, refused to leave a fellow American behind. Refused to put his own life above the lives of others in need. When duty called, Larry did everything, did everything to answer. And because of that, he rewrote the fate of four families for generations to come. That's valor. That's valor. That's our nation at its very best. And that's why it's now my great honor to ask Lieutenant Colonel Ann Hughes to read your Medal of Honor Citation. May God bless you all and may God protect our troops. 
 
LIEUTENANT COLONEL ANN HUGHES: Attention to order, the President of the United States of America, authorized by Act of Congress, March 3, 1863, has awarded in the name of Congress the Medal of Honor to First Lieutenant Larry L. Taylor, United States Army. For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the Call of Duty. First Lieutenant Larry L. Taylor distinguished himself by acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the Call of Duty while serving with Troop Delta, First Squadron, 4th Cavalry, First Infantry Division on June 18, 1968, near the village of Ap Go Cong, Republic of Vietnam. 
 
On this date, First Lieutenant Taylor commanded a light fire team of two Cobra helicopter gunship, scrambled on a nighttime mission in response to an urgent call for aerial fire support from a four-man long range patrol team. Upon arrival, First Lieutenant Taylor found the patrol team surrounded and heavily engaged by a larger Vietcong force. He immediately requested illumination rounds and supporting artillery
 
 to assist with identifying the enemy positions. Despite intense enemy ground fire, he flew at a perilously low altitude, placing a devastating volume of aerial rocket and machine gunfire on the enemy forces encircling the friendly patrol. 
 
For over approximately 45 minutes, First Lieutenant Taylor and his wingmen continue to make low level danger close attack runs on the surrounding enemy position. When enemy fire increased from the village of Ap Go Kong, he requested artillery rounds with lower illumination altitudes be fired on that portion of the village so that the burning rounds ignited the enemy positions. With both Cobra gunships nearly out of ammunition and the enemy still closing in on the patrol team, First Lieutenant Taylor flew the patrol team's potential ground evacuation route -- founding it -- finding it unviable based on the heavy enemy ground fire encountered. 
 <br>[15:45:08]
 
Returning to the patrol team's location, he continued to circle it at a low level under intense enemy fire, employing his searchlight to make fake gun runs on the enemy positions to distract them from the patrol team. Running low on fuel, and with the patrol team nearly out of ammunition, First Lieutenant Taylor decided to extract the team with his two-man Cobra helicopter gunship. A feat never before accomplished. 
 
He directed his wingman to fire their remaining mini gun rounds on the patrol team's east flank. First Lieutenant Taylor then fired his own last mini gun rounds on the enemy positions, opening an avenue of movement to the east for the patrol team. 
 
He directed the patrol team to move 100 yards towards the extraction point, where First Lieutenant Taylor, still under enemy fire, landed his helicopter and instructed the patrol team to climb aboard anywhere they could. With the four-man long range patrol team seated on rocket pods and skids, he evacuated them to the nearest friendly location, undoubtedly saving their lives. 
 
First Lieutenant Taylor's conspicuous gallantry, his profound concern for his fellow soldiers and his intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the Call of Duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and the United States Army. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ladies and gentlemen, please join me for the benediction. Most holy God, we thank you again for the shining example of valor and selfless service you have given us in Captain Larry Taylor. Bless him richly as he takes his place in the pantheon of our nation's most distinguished heroes. 
 
As we leave this ceremony inspired by Captain Taylor's legacy of courageous action under fire, empower us to commit ourselves to greater acts of service to one another and to our nation. 
 
We rely upon you, O Lord, to keep us all strong in spirit and to give each of us the wisdom we need to fulfill our responsibilities one to another. And now Lord God, we ask that you will bless and protect all of those serving our Army and our armed forces today as they preserve our precious freedoms, just as Captain Taylor did. And made the lamp of liberty continue to shine brightly upon the United States of America and upon our allies and our friends around the world. We pray these blessings in your holy name. Amen. 
 
KEILAR: What a thing to behold. Retired Captain Larry Taylor receiving the Medal of Honor. I want to bring in CNN, Pentagon correspondent Oren Liebermann. As we're watching this, you know, he did this to save decades ago the men that he was serving with. But it was pretty amazing just to watch his face as the president put that award around his neck -- Oren. 
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: I was also looking at that because that was a moment where we obviously didn't have the chance to hear from Captain Larry Taylor during the ceremony itself. But you could see, as President Joe Biden put the Medal of Honor around Taylor's neck, a bit of a smile there, the recognition so long in coming. 55 years for what happened on that night. 
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
And we had a chance to speak with Taylor several days ago as we got ready for this Medal of Honor ceremony, and it was clear for him this was the mission at hand. And as we asked, how did you prep for this? How did you plan for this? He said, we basically made it up as we went along. For him, there were four soldiers there on the ground. There was supposed to be a rescue helicopter coming in to be able to get them out. But that was called off because it was deemed to be too difficult. So Taylor came up with his own plan. Doing what he could with the firepower the helicopter had. Then landing in that empty rice paddy. Having those soldiers essentially get on the skids and hang on for dear life as he got them out of there and then taking them to the nearest point where they were with friendly troops and would be safe. 
 
It is that action, that willingness to essentially keep flying in the face of fire and then do something that nobody had ever prepped for because the helicopter he was flying, the Cobra, wasn't supposed to be able to do that. That is why he earned the Medal of Honor. 
 
And I do want to read a quick quote here about what he views as what he did from that night, he told us: 
 
We took them down there and I landed, and I left my wide landing lights on and so the four of them ran out in front of the helicopter and then they turned around and lined up all four of them saluted, and then ran for the lights. 
 
That was the four soldiers that he'd saved. They saluted him as they ran, realizing that he had taken them to safety. And again, that's what he's been given the Medal of Honor for. And I'll read one more little quick bit here, he said:
 
I think about 90 percent of flying a helicopter in Vietnam was making it up as you go along. Probably not something his superior officers would like to have heard,
 
 but certainly for those four soldiers on the ground there that he got out of there that he pulled out from the middle of a firefight and saved. That's something they very much appreciate, Brianna. The actions he took, the courage he showed, the valor he showed that night. 
 
KEILAR: Yes, you're right. It was his improvisation and his creativity, and he made it happen. It was really a moment there. Oren, thank you so much. We really appreciate it. It. 
 
LIEBERMANN: Of course. 
 
KEILAR: And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:56:41]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Just a short time ago, attorneys for Alex Murdaugh finished talking to reporters about why the double murder should get a new trial. Earlier this year, a jury took just three hours to convict the disgraced South Carolina attorney of killing his wife and son, in June of 2021. Now his attorneys allege, the clerk who courted his trial, tampered with jurors. Let's get to CNN's Dianne Gallagher, who's in Columbia, South Carolina for us. So Dianne, what did the defense team say? 
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: You know, Boris, they say that the Colleton County Clerk of court, Rebecca Becky Hill, was motivated by quote, money and fame in pursuit of a book deal and television appearances. They filed that motion for a new trial here in Columbia today with a 65-page motion that includes bombshell allegations against the clerk of court there in Colleton County. Just to read you a bit of this here, they claim that quote: 
 
The clerk of court tampered with the jury by advising them not to believe Murdaugh's testimony. And other evidence presented by the defense. Pressuring them to reach a quick guilty verdict and even misrepresenting critical and material information to the trial judge in her campaign to remove a juror that she believed to be favorable to the defense. 
 
Now again, these are just allegations at this though. We have reached out to Miss Hill. She has not given us comment yet in response to this motion. But look, the filing does contain two sworn affidavits from two people who served on the jury, in addition to witness statements and copies of a book that Rebecca Hill did eventually publish about the Murdaugh double murder trial earlier this year. 
 
Now some of those jurors in those affidavits said things like Hill instructed the jurors to not be misled by evidence presented by the defense and not to be fooled by Murdaugh's own infamous testimony. It was that book that authorities say caused the jurors to come forward. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JIM GRIFFIN, ATTORNEY FOR ALEX MURDAUGH: Immediately in the aftermath of the verdict, we had received information that that we needed to look into what happened in the jury room. We started down that road and we met a zone of silence. No jurors would speak to us. And so we were, you know what I like to call, we were given the Heisman. Right? And then when the clerk of court wrote her book, published her book, that zone of silence collapsed and jurors were upset about that. The ones we talked with and they were more than willing to come forward and tell us the things that that we had sort of heard through a whisper campaign.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GALLAGHER: Now South Carolina Attorney General Alan Wilson says they are currently reviewing the motion. Boris, the defense attorneys also requested the U.S. attorney to investigate this as the clerk of court in Carlton County is an elected official. 
 
SANCHEZ: Just when we thought we heard the last of Alex Murdaugh, now these new allegations come about. Dianne Gallagher, thank you so much. 
 
KEILAR: It'll be really interesting to see where they go with that. If this is just seen as like a last-ditch effort, or if they find something there. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. 
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Also a pretty quick book after a trial, it must be said. And quick public comments on such a high-profile trial. 
 
KEILAR: Yes, they gave them an opportunity for this perhaps. 
 
SCIUTTO: Absolutely. Lots more news today, of course our colleague Jake Tapper will be covering. And "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now.