Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Warring Sides Accuse each other of Truce Violations; More Foreign Nations Evacuating Diplomats, Nationals; President Joe Biden Launches Re- election Campaign; Food, Water Running out or Gone in Khartoum State; CNN Speaks to UAE Space Agency Chair about Mars Mission; Record Breaking Heat Waves are set to Increase. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired April 25, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this hour reports of heavy clashes in Sudan amid a tenuous ceasefire brokered by the United States and 
 
 Saudi Arabia. I'll be speaking to the Sudanese Ambassador to Washington.
 
But first, happening now Russia's Foreign Minister Chairs a second day at the UN Security Council meanwhile, the Ukrainian Military is claiming 
 
 impressive results over the past three days around Kherson.
 
U.S. President Joe Biden makes his official announcement he is running for reelection in 2024. His messaging once again focuses on fighting Republican 
 
 extremism. And Singer Actor and Civil Rights Activist Harry Belafonte have passed away at the age of 96. We'll take a look back at his life and his 
 
 legacy.
 
Welcome to our second hour of "Connect the World"! I am Eleni Giokos. Now the U.S. Saudi mediated ceasefire between Sudan's warring factions appears 
 
 to be on shaky ground. Both the Sudanese military and the paramilitary rapid support forces agreed to a 72 hour ceasefire beginning at midnight 
 
 last night.
 
The U.S. says it has been in constant communication with both military leaders since fighting broke out 11 days ago. But now eyewitnesses tell CNN 
 
 heavy clashes have erupted in the northern parts of Khartoum.
 
So tonight we ask can Washington be an effective mediator in Sudan. I want to bring in the Sudanese Ambassador to the U.S. Mohammed Idris. He joins me 
 
 now live from Washington, D.C. Ambassador, great to have you on thank you so much for joining us! I want to start off with the ceasefire. We've seen 
 
 other ceasefires breaking down. We've also heard reports of a lot of other ceasefires, not holding, what is the status right now?
 
MOHAMED IDRIS, SUDANESE AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S.: Thank you. Thank you so much for having me on your channel this morning. And thank you so much for 
 
 caring. The announced ceasefire and truce, mediated by the United States of America and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is an important step in the right 
 
 direction.
 
And as you are following the Sudanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Spokesperson of the Sudanese Armed Forces have issued statements expressing 
 
 their commitment to respect the 72 brokered truces.
 
And as you know, ceasefire is two way traffic the government is committed to respect its obligations, committed to respect the truth, and committed 
 
 to do all that it can to make sure that it is successful for and it's good, because it is very, very good and very, very important for civilian 
 
 protection and for--
 
GIOKOS: Ambassador is the ceasefire holding right now, from your understanding the ceasefire has failed?
 
IDRIS: Yes, from my understanding, yes, it is. And it should -- it should hold. And we hope that the other party will respect it, especially those 
 
 who are deployed in the residential areas--
 
GIOKOS: But Ambassador is it holding -- is it holding because our reporting is showing that I mean, we speaking to people on the ground, and they have 
 
 a very different perspective. Is it holding to your understanding is the ceasefire holding?
 
IDRIS: To my understanding, as far as the government is concerned, the government is committed to the ceasefire. If the other party is not 
 
 committed that is what I cannot tell. But as far as the government--
 
GIOKOS: Are you saying the RSF -- are you saying if the other party is the RSF that is not adhering to the ceasefire?
 
IDRIS: --that they should be -- as they should be. But the government I'm not speaking on behalf of the government, I'm assuring you that the 
 
 government is committed and we respect the truce and the ceasefire, and we thank the American government and the Saudi Kingdom government for their 
 
 efforts to realize--
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
GIOKOS: Ambassador, you've confirmed that the U.S. and Saudi Arabia brokered this specific ceasefire. Is it different with the ceasefire versus 
 
 the other ceasefires that have been negotiated brokered by a lot of other African nations? How is this ceasefire different?
 
IDRIS: To my feeling, and to my understanding, and to the assurances I got from my government that the government will respect it, and that the 
 
 government is keen to protect the civilians. The government is keen to respect the international humanitarian law. So be assured that as far as 
 
 the Sudanese government is concerned, it is committed to this truce and we'll continue to respect it.
 
GIOKOS: Who is the U.S. government? Ambassador who is the U.S. government talking to and mediating with is it Burhan -- General Burhan? And is the 
 
 does it include General Hemetti? Or is it just one side who is the U.S. government talking to?
 
IDRIS: No, we have, you know, we have many channels of engagement with the American government. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is one channel, our 
 
 Embassy here is one channel, and there is also the high level channel.
 
And the military also, they have their own Sudanese military and their American Defense Ministry. They have also their channels of contact channel 
 
 of engagement. So there are many challenges, but it is once said, we all know what is happening. So what is happening in the military section, we 
 
 know it at the political and diplomatic also.
 
GIOKOS: Ambassador, I'm sorry to press you on this, because this situation is desperate. And we're hearing, you know, very harrowing reports from 
 
 people on the ground. So I need to get some clarity. Is the U.S. government just speaking of maybe channels? Who is the U.S. government able to 
 
 negotiate with? Are they speaking directly with the two generals that are leading the military and the paramilitary?
 
IDRIS: No that question maybe could be -- maybe passed to the American partners. But I'm talking about many channels not one just particular 
 
 channel. All these channels work together to yield -- to deliver what you are now in as far as the ceasefire or as far as the truce is concerned?
 
GIOKOS: Ambassador, who are you talking too directly? Who are you reporting to? I think there's a lot of confusion here, I mean, the RSF and the RAF 
 
 came together to form, you know, a new government. We know that there are been a lot of issues and delays. But who are you directly talking to on a 
 
 daily basis about what's going on?
 
IDRIS: We have the Minister of diplomat, and this is the Embassy of Sudan, in Washington. So I'm talking to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I'm in 
 
 daily contact with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. So we exchanged views and myself and Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are on the same page.
 
GIOKOS: So what is the messaging, then that's coming through from your ministry about how this is going to move? Because let's be clear here, 
 
 you've got two generals that are clearly worrying about absolute power. And there's concern that only when there's one winner at the end, will this 
 
 fighting end. So what is the messaging you're hearing from your ministry?
 
IDRIS: Look, our approach is that the approach of the ministry and the approach of the government of Sudan that this conflict should come to an 
 
 end and those civilians should be protected.
 
GIOKOS: Yes.
 
IDRIS: And the Sudanese people deserve tranquility, and they need it now, very now. And there are very, very important humanitarian challenges. We 
 
 hope that together with the truce with the mediated ceasefire, if it could be also expanded to incorporate other concerns. The concerns of the 
 
 Sudanese people, there are very, very, very important humanitarian needs as we are speaking now.
 
GIOKOS: Absolutely.
 
IDRIS: There are needs of food, needs of medicine, and needs for sanitation needs of restoring electricity and water services.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
So, that is what I want to tell you that we hope that this truce could be - - if it could be comprehensive expanded to be a comprehensive process or to have a comprehensive approach that could incorporate other challenges that 
 
 is will be important for the Sudanese people.
 
And that will be -- and that is also important and good for taking on board the Sudanese people taking on board the concerns of the Sudanese people, 
 
 because if we this -- what is happening now, we'll end up with a political- -
 
GIOKOS: If it doesn't hold, because, frankly, let's say if it doesn't hold, because we're hearing reports is not holding. Does that mean that the 
 
 humanitarian situation is going to further be exacerbated? We're already really hearing about looting of warehouses?
 
The economy has come to a standstill. People are running out of cash, not only food and water, and obviously services, but they're running out of 
 
 cash. So in the event that this ceasefire does not hold, like you say and cannot be expanded, what is the outcome then, and particularly for the 
 
 evacuations, which are currently on the go?
 
IDRIS: The evacuation let me assure you that evacuation process is going on. And many nations have succeeded to evacuate their nationals either by 
 
 air or by land. And the Sudanese government Sudanese Armed Forces has allocated a lot of humanitarian -- human and logistical administrative 
 
 assistants to make sure that the evacuation process is going on in a peaceful way.
 
And then going on to realize what has been expected from it. So the evacuation is ongoing in a successful way. And the government is stand 
 
 ready to help and facilitate the evacuation and also talking about the evacuation.
 
I guess that the Sudanese people Sudanese communities are monitoring and watching and hoping that same attention and same resources will be also 
 
 allocated and provided for addressing the root causes of the crisis. That is important also, addressing the root causes of the process. The crisis 
 
 will lead us to an expected resumption of the political process.
 
GIOKOS: Everyone is hoping, as we watch on some of the desperate stories that are coming out of Sudan right now impacting average Sudanese people, 
 
 which are going to be vital for their future. Ambassador, we thank you so much for your time. We thank you for your insights and sharing your story 
 
 with us. Thank you so much, sir. Appreciate it.
 
Well, Sam Kiley is back with us from Djibouti and initial arrival point from diplomats and others evacuated from Sudan. Sam, great to have you with 
 
 us! As we hear that the ceasefire remains fragile, a break fighting breaking out. The question, of course has arisen in terms of how this is 
 
 going to impact evacuations. What are you hearing right now in terms of realities of trying to get people out at this stage?
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well Eleni, this is not the only international hub for the evacuation of by air of people, mostly 
 
 foreigners from Khartoum, but it is one of them.
 
The British staged out of here but then evacuated their ambassador, rather, diplomats to Cyprus, but there is, as you can see, in the background, is a 
 
 Spanish aircraft, the Japanese aircraft, the number of other aircraft based here French and so on.
 
So they are trying to exploit what may be a ceasefire, particularly the British announced earlier on today that they wanted to get an evacuation 
 
 underway during the ceasefire. We haven't got any real clarity as to what has happened with the British. We're not seeing any evidence that it has 
 
 been staged from here.
 
But we're looking hopefully at the beginning of the day, for a step forward in terms of the evacuation by aircraft now. Later on, we got a voicemail 
 
 from somebody whose name we're keeping secret for his own safety, describing what the real situation on the ground was like in Khartoum and 
 
 this probably explains why evacuations by air at least of slow this is what he said.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't know if you can hear this but there's no short fire as I'm speaking with you. As for the food situation and the supplies, 
 
 food is OK but shops are running out of food completely. All the factories in Bahrain have been looted by some people and as for the water supply 
 
 still we don't have water for the eleventh day continuously.
 
We only get water from a well nearby. I wish to stay and to see how this is going to progress? If it's going to be worse than definitely I will escape. 
 
 There is no other way. There is no, it is what it is war you cannot say at war situations.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KILEY: Now, notwithstanding the war situation, there have been some successful significant evacuations from Port Sudan the Jepson Ship was able 
 
 to pick up several hundred people yesterday. Today this afternoon, a French warship docked at the Port Sudan and is currently set to embark with about 
 
 500 people on board for Jeddah just across the Red Sea. That's according to the French government.
 
So it is now becoming an increasing focus what might be done out of Port Sudan as two British warships heading in that direction to American 
 
 warships too. There have been contingency plans for some kind of potential military intervention in Port Sudan if they needed to secure a bridge head 
 
 for further evacuations.
 
But of course, if the ceasefire holds the need for evacuation could go down. The ease of evacuation, of course, will also go up. But it's clear 
 
 that if the French have been able to dock a warship at Port Sudan, the idea that military force could be used there, at least for the time being is 
 
 beginning to look very grim prospect, Eleni.
 
GIOKOS: All right, Sam Kiley in Djibouti for us. Well, underway this hour. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is leading a second day of the UN 
 
 Security Council meetings after an icy reception on Monday. Yesterday's meeting, one that was supposed to focus on international peace instead 
 
 turned contentious.
 
With Western diplomats slamming Lavrov for his country's unprovoked actions in Ukraine, today's focus is on the Middle East. And we've got live 
 
 pictures coming through from the United Nations as you can see on your screen right now.
 
Well, to the battlefield in Ukraine where the Ukrainian military claims it's achieving impressive results against Russian forces in the Kherson 
 
 region. The military says its hits and destroyed Russian artillery pieces, tanks, vehicles and air defense systems and has made progress clearing the 
 
 eastern bank of the Dnipro River in the past three days.
 
CNN's Chief International Security Correspondent Nick Paton Walsh is live in Zaporizhzhia, in Southeast Ukraine with the very latest. A long with 
 
 list of impressive results as Ukrainian say, tell us what is going on?
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it's hard to tell to be honest Eleni at this point, because just three days ago, 
 
 they were also saying that any operations on that bank should essentially be protected through silence bid by Ukraine to ensure the operational 
 
 safety of their troops as they bid seems begin operations that maybe the prelude or the counter offensive itself, beginning to happen.
 
Now the Eastern Bank of the Dnipro's Russian held a few days ago images emerged of Russian -- Ukrainian troops, it seems crossing over. They as I 
 
 say were quickly quashed by Ukrainian officials. And some suggested this was probing operations that have been happening over the past months, but 
 
 they do appear to have continued and certainly now today, Ukraine trying to suggest this is a larger operations that has seen "Impressive results".
 
Now, is this a very tricky bid to launch a counter offensive across a river towards the Russian held east side of that river bank? Unclear or is it a 
 
 distraction aimed at drawing Russian attention or Russian troops and resources towards that? Or is it both? We don't know.
 
But it does seem to be the beginning of an information push or maybe a military push that may herald the beginning of this counter offensive. We 
 
 don't know where it will focus; necessarily Ukraine has said there's not going to be a bugle announcing it.
 
It's just going to begin under its own pace. And certainly many people focus on with the Zaporizhzhia region trying to cut off the Crimean 
 
 Peninsula occupied by Russia since 2014, from other occupied parts of Ukraine and the Russian mainland.
 
So what's happening in the East maybe part of that may be probing Russia's defenses and it may be about trying to distract their resources from the 
 
 area where a larger assault may happen or maybe beginning to already happen.
 
A lot we don't know here a lot that we couldn't say if we did know I mean to Ukrainian restrictions, or unreal porting in military areas but 
 
 certainly at the moment a feeling Eleni have a real increase in pace and activity around these areas.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
GIOKOS: Nick Paton Walsh always good to have you on. Thank you so much. Well, U.S. President Joe Biden makes it official. Just ahead, President 
 
 Biden's reelection announcement we'll have a live report for you.
 
And he grew to fame for his silky singing but it was his passionate fight for civil rights that left a mark on the world. We mourn the death of Harry 
 
 Belafonte when "Connect the World" continues.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: U.S. President Joe Biden has made it official he's running for reelection in 2024 and he made the announcement in a video released this 
 
 morning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: What you know around the country, mega extremists is lining up to take on those bedrock freedoms. 
 
 Cutting Social Security that you paid for your entire life while cutting taxes from the very wealthy, dictating what healthcare decisions women can 
 
 make banning books and telling people who they can love.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: Alright, I'm joined now by CNN White House correspondent Jeremy Diamond. It's all in the messaging. So what do you think of the strategy 
 
 and the lines that Biden is going in with?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well Eleni, you can draw a straight line from the President Biden's 2020 campaign to the 2022 midterm 
 
 campaign that he and Democrats waged all the way now to this 2024 announcement.
 
And that's because President Biden in this video clearly says he's reprising that campaign theme of 2020 where he says that the country is 
 
 still in a battle for the soul of the nation. You'll recall that in the 2022 midterms as well.
 
President Biden at the time also talked about the dangers of Mega Republicans and talked about the fact that there was still this battle 
 
 ongoing for democracy. And so clearly President Biden is hoping that he can reprise those themes in this 2024 reelection campaign.
 
Now, that being said, you didn't hear a lot in that announcement video about President Biden's record in office. The accomplishments that he hopes 
 
 to run on advisors to the President do tell me that am going to be a central theme of his campaign as well.
 
But clearly with this announcement video, President Biden is trying to rally Democrats around his candidacy. We know of course, that current 
 
 polling shows that as many as half of Democrats still would like to see somebody else run for the 2024 Democratic Presidential Nomination.
 
A lot of that stems from concerns about President Biden's age. He is 80 years old already the oldest President in American history. He would be 86 
 
 by the time he finished his a second term, so all of that still very much in motion.
 
That being said President Biden doesn't intend to hit the campaign trail just yet. He is going to be on a fundraising blitz in these first few weeks 
 
 but we won't -- we shouldn't expect to see any campaign rallies until Republicans pick their presumptive nominee.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
GIOKOS: Alright, Jeremy Diamond, thank you so much for that updates. Well, the world is mourning an entertainment and civil rights icon today and we 
 
 got word just about an hour ago that Singer Actor and Activist Harry Belafonte has passed away. His publicist says Belafonte passed from heart 
 
 failure. He was 96 years old.
 
After growing to fame in the 1950s as the King of Calypso Music, Belafonte risked his career to stand alongside people like Martin Luther King Jr., 
 
 and Nelson Mandela to speak out for human rights. CNN's Stephanie Elam has more on a life that impacted the world in so many different ways.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORREPONDENT (voice over): The Banana Boat Song opening line -- put Harlem born Harry Belafonte on the map, the son of Caribbean 
 
 immigrants worked hard to pull him out of poverty, through music and education.
 
HARRY BELAFONTE, ACTOR, AMERICAN SINGER: I and my brothers and sisters were the first to be educated.
 
ELAM (voice over): Belafonte's humble and sometimes rough beginnings in New York City helped shape the man who later would have a major impact on 
 
 American music and drama.
 
BELAFONTE: I went to school here at drama school. My classmates were Marlon Brando, Sidney Poitier, Walter Matthau be author.
 
ELAM (voice over): Belafonte burst onto the entertainment scene in the early 1950s. He was dubbed the King of Calypso because of the Jamaican folk 
 
 music he made popular. At around the same time, he won rave reviews for his role in the movie Carmen Jones.
 
It was one of the first films with an all-black cast to garner box office success. The man with the uniquely husky voice went on to make more than 40 
 
 albums, including original recordings and compilations and starred in more than 10 movies spanning more than five decades.
 
Belafonte won several Grammy Awards for his records in the early 1960s and was one of the first black performers to win a Tony Award for the Broadway 
 
 hit John Murray Anderson's Almanac. In his later years, his big screen projects dealt with the larger societal issues of race and class like 
 
 1995's White Man's Burden,
 
BELAFONTE: Kind of just grew up and got away from it.
 
ELAM (voice over): Although Belafonte's career kept him busy; he always made time for his family. He was the father of four children from two 
 
 marriages. His daughter Shari Belafonte followed in his footsteps to become an actress in her own right.
 
Although his music and movies gained him fame, Belafonte also made his mark as a political activist. In the 60s, he stood up for the civil rights of 
 
 blacks in America, and stood side by side with the likes of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and Bobby Kennedy, both later assassinated.
 
Two decades later, he turned his attention to the poor and powerless abroad, especially in Africa. In 1985, Belafonte initiated the U.S. for 
 
 Africa recording of "We Are the World" with some of the world's most famous entertainers the song raises over $63 million for African relief.
 
And for us humanitarianism, the artist received numerous awards from the Kennedy Center, the ACLU, the American National Medal of the Arts, and the 
 
 Thurgood Marshall Lifetime Achievement Award.
 
Later in life, Belafonte further sealed his legacy, starting his own foundation, Sankofa focused on social justice. In the documentary Harry 
 
 Belafonte senior song, he contemplated his life of accomplishment and the work that lay ahead.
 
BELAFONTE: I try to envision playing out the rest of my life almost exclusively devoted to reflection but this is too much of the world to be 
 
 done. By social activism, things that I believe in politically and although I took a lot of heat and what I did, then not taking heat again for some of 
 
 the things I say I'll do, but if history is any, is any measure that I probably wind up on the right side of the equation.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
GIOKOS: Right, welcome back to "Connect the World". I'm Eleni Giokos in Abu Dhabi; I'm in for my colleague Becky Anderson. The latest ceasefire in 
 
 Sudan appears to be largely holding despite both warring sides accusing each other of truce violations. Heavy clashes are reported in areas of 
 
 northern Khartoum state.
 
The World Health Organization says the death toll in 11 days of fighting now tops 450 with more than 4000 people injured. Russia's Foreign Minister 
 
 is leading a second day of the U.N. Security Council after a contentious reception on Monday. Western diplomat slammed Sergey Lavrov yesterday for 
 
 his country's unprovoked actions in Ukraine.
 
Today's meeting focuses on the Middle East. Now U.S. President Joe Biden has made it official he's running for re-election in 2024. He made the 
 
 announcement in a new video and set up the 2024 race as a fight against extremism. And 80 years old Joe Biden is the oldest serving president in 
 
 U.S. history.
 
Now the humanitarian situation in Sudan is getting worse. Let me explain. Residents of Khartoum say water and food are running out if not already 
 
 gone and sick people can't get the medicine that they need. There are also reports of looting. The United Nations Refugee Agency is bracing for a 
 
 large-scale refugee operation with tens of thousands of people already fleeing to neighboring countries.
 
David McKenzie is back with me this hour from Johannesburg. David, the situation on the ground is becoming all the more desperate when you're 
 
 hearing news about people running out of food and water. People running out of cash and trying desperately for those that can to find a root out. What 
 
 is the update? What are you hearing from your sources?
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, when we're talking to doctors and eyewitnesses on the ground, it is a very dire 
 
 situation in particular in the capital, Khartoum, Eleni. And you know, a doctor, I spoke to just a short time ago saying that, you know, they're 
 
 running out of medicine. They're running out of supplies.
 
They have to do lengthy, complicated operations with much reduced staff often getting a gunshot wound, victims in civilians who are caught up in 
 
 the fighting. This ceasefire that was announced held to a certain degree, but there are certainly a lot of eyewitness reports of ongoing clashes at 
 
 this hour, in Khartoum and potentially in other parts of the country.
 
You mentioned our people streaming over the border into Chad, other South Sudanese in fact, the situation is so bad that they are going back to their 
 
 homeland that faces its own issues. The big issue here beyond the fighting is that the conditions that set up this conflict still remain. There was 
 
 this agreement in December between General al-Burhan of the Sudanese armed forces and the General widely known as Hemedti of the paramilitary group.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
What was set aside and that is how long it would take to integrate the paramilitary forces into the overall army as they hand it over to civilian 
 
 rule. And this remains an issue I spoke to a leading expert. Here's what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALAN BOSWELL, HORN OF AFRICA PROJECT DIRECTOR, CRISIS GROUP: This was the core, the core class underneath it. But because these two military men 
 
 essentially are the two most powerful men in Sudan, it was far more than just a question of how you structure the security services. It was really a 
 
 question of who controls Sudan, and these final negotiations sort of forced the issue and led to these clashes.
 
MCKENZIE (on camera): Where do we go from here?
 
BOSWELL: Well, there's a reason that basically all Sudanese and outsiders have been united in simply demanding that these to agree to stop fighting 
 
 and, and agree to a ceasefire, even if for humanitarian purposes. That is because an all-out war, if this continues, looks very grim. When you start 
 
 looking at scenarios, a lot of people are worried about a proper state collapse.
 
The longer these drags on, the more likely we're going to see other groups across the country more or less take signs, this will become a multi, a 
 
 multi front, multi-party, a civil war. And on top of that, we're quite likely to see much more serious external intervention and involvement.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKENZIE: If this becomes a wider conflict, Eleni, certainly the risk will be that Egypt, the UAE, the Saudis, and others may get more directly 
 
 involved in back in one side or the other or even both. This leads to the unthinkable scenario of what was a very optimistic outlook for Sudan by 
 
 many that they were moving finally to some kind of civilian stability and government. And now they face an all-out conflagration as the U.N. 
 
 Secretary General put it, Eleni.
 
GIOKOS: Yes, David McKenzie, thank you so much. Well, today, Israel marks are Memorial Day honoring the nation's fallen soldiers and victims of 
 
 terror attacks. It is a solemn day that normally rises above politics, but today was different. For an unprecedented scenario protester at a military 
 
 cemetery shouted at Israel's controversial fire right National Security Minister, Itamar Ben-Gvir.
 
Other members of Benjamin Netanyahu's government were targeted with similar outbursts all those stemming from ongoing tensions over the government's 
 
 plan to overhaul the country's judicial system.
 
We've got CNN's Hadas Gold who's been following these developments for us today. And Hadas, it shows the deep divisions it shows that on a solemn day 
 
 like today, people have protested wanting to speak up against what they've seen happening on the political front.
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yes, we were actually at that military cemetery in Beer Sheva earlier today when, Itamar Ben-Gvir, the 
 
 National Security Minister rose to speak.
 
And he had been specifically and other politicians had been specifically asked by some families of fallen soldiers to not attend the ceremony is not 
 
 only because of political issues, but also because of fears that this would happen that these sorts of protests would distract from what is meant to be 
 
 a day of observance and a day of remembrance.
 
And actually, at that military cemetery we're seeing pictures from right now, we saw on some of the graves of the fallen soldier's signs from 
 
 families that said, you know, to our loved ones, I'm sorry, we will not be here on the ceremony. We came a day early just because we didn't want to be 
 
 part of essentially what was considered a political circus.
 
Now, Itamar Ben-Gvir defied the calls from these families to not attend these moral services. Other ministers did listen to heed the calls one 
 
 minister actually, instead of speaking immediately handed the microphone over to the mother of a fallen soldier, Itamar Ben-Gvir decided to continue 
 
 speaking.
 
Some families also objected him speaking not only because of his political views, but also because he himself never served despite the fact that 
 
 there's a compulsory draught in Israel. Itamar Ben-Gvir was barred from serving in the Israeli army because of his extremist views, even at a young 
 
 age.
 
So even before the ceremony began, there were some scuffles between mourners. And then when, Itamar Ben-Gvir took the stage, we did hear from 
 
 protesters, some of them shouting, you're not worthy. Some of them singing in protest some of them turn their backs and walked away.
 
Now, Itamar Ben-Gvir did address the protesters saying, let them yell, they are patriots as well. And there were others in the crowd who applauded 
 
 Itamar Ben-Gvir, who supported him. But clearly the tension you could feel it was incredibly high not only because of the emotions of such a memorial 
 
 day.
 
But it's so clear the divisions in Israeli society are still so very, very deep despite the fact that this government has put a pause to this judicial 
 
 overhaul. Now the head of the organization that represents fallen soldiers, it has spoken out. And he actually said that he will write a sharp letter 
 
 to the Israeli government because he believes that they must see that what happened today will not happen next year. He said that red lines were 
 
 crossed today, Eleni.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
GIOKOS: All right, Hadas Gold with us for an update out of Jerusalem! Well, coming up how the latest observations from the UAE's hope probe change was 
 
 we know about the moons of Mars. It's fascinating. My interview with the Head of the UAE Space Agency is coming up next, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Away from our moon and on to Mars, where scientists from the UAE unveiled yesterday their latest findings from the Emirati hope probe 
 
 orbiting Earth's neighbor. They say they have new ground-breaking insights into the bean shape Martian Moon hovering behind me, it's called Deimos. 
 
 The hope probe got closer to Deimos than any spacecraft since 1977.
 
And its observations challenge a long-standing theory about the origins of the red planets moons. Now the mission is being extended for another year. 
 
 I spoke to the Chairwoman of the UAE Space Agency, Sarah Al Amiri about the science behind it all, and how this journey started, check this out.
 
SARAH BINT YOUSIF AL AMIRI, CHAIRWOMAN, UAE SPACE AGENCY: So, this all started as we were approaching Mars in March, start imaging Deimos. As the 
 
 data was captured around Deimos, what we have been found out is that the composition of the moon is close to the composition of Mars, rather than 
 
 being close to the composition of a captured asteroid, which is the current standing theory of the origin of Mars's moons.
 
Now why are the significant, Deimos and perhaps even Phobos can most probably be pieces of Mars, similar to Earth's moon, rather than being 
 
 captured asteroids in orbit around Mars today. What's significant for us is because we did small maneuvers to change the orbit of the spacecraft 
 
 slightly, we're able to continue capturing this data into our extended mission which will continue on till next year.
 
GIOKOS: To say that I am elated with these findings is a complete understatement. I think for so many people, we've seen so much interest in 
 
 Mars, whether it's, you know, is an option for the human race down the line. So why is it important to understand a little bit more about its 
 
 moves in terms of understanding whether it can you know, host humans at some point?
 
AMIRI: So, our primary science mission is actually addressing that indirectly in terms of understanding global changes on Mars as climate and 
 
 the weather system of Mars. And we were able to capture well over two terabytes of data on the weather system on Mars capturing the entire year 
 
 across all seasons.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
And as that is winding down and as an opportunity presented itself and as the science team continues to, to love collecting additional data about 
 
 Mars, we started collecting data on Deimos, a presumed captured asteroid. There was another reason that's underlying our next mission is to the 
 
 asteroid belt.
 
And it was interesting to understand compositions of asteroids and capturing that using the Emirates Mars mission. Now the finding was 
 
 surprising in a way, showing a composition that's closer to Mars than an asteroid. But that's the beauty of scientific discovery. And that's the 
 
 beauty of doing unprecedented science, and capturing data around planets. It helps us understand our solar system and helps us understand bodies 
 
 around us.
 
GIOKOS: Yes, absolutely. And as you say, you know, you didn't anticipate that you would get such a beautiful, clear picture of this. It's because 
 
 you had extra fuel, right? But I'm also curious about what your intentions were, for the hope. What did you actually think you were going to achieve?
 
AMIRI: So, in terms of our primary science, we're well underway on answering questions we've had. This is going to be our third significant 
 
 scientific discovery; the science team will continue to get science data. The team today is at an international conference, together with other 
 
 scientists that are not our team who are able to access this data for the first time through the hope of a Mars mission about Mars.
 
And as we continue studying and discovering for us what's important is continuing the advancement of science and technology in the UAE, advancing 
 
 the industry, investing further in the space sector and investing further and realizing the potential of commercial space.
 
This is only one prong of many programs and projects that are under the UAE space fund that continues to stimulate advancements in development forward. 
 
 And these small pockets of achievements drive teams forward so that we can continue to achieve better science and great science, not only for the UAE, 
 
 but for the space community at large.
 
GIOKOS: Absolutely. Look, this Emirates Mars Mission, as you say, is going to be extended for another year. But it's your first as the UAE's first 
 
 interplanetary exploration project. And it's really significant for the UAE and in terms of what you can achieve. Tell me about the kind of phone calls 
 
 you've been getting, in terms of your findings, how you and the team feel, and clearly the sky's the limit.
 
AMIRI: Haven't worked with a team for years, it's going to be 10 years, I think at the end of this year, just realizing the potential of a spacecraft 
 
 and the impact and ripple effect it's had is enormous. This is going to be an interesting week, not only for the UAE but for this international space 
 
 sector at large, we will have the landing of the first commercial space vehicle on the surface of the moon.
 
Those advancements are significant not only for the UAE, but its opening vast potential in space for us. Our first step that has stimulated quite a 
 
 large activation was our mission to Mars. But today, it is not the only mission that the UAE has. Nor is it the only mechanism that we are 
 
 advancing developing our commercial space sector.
 
So as a team, I think excitement continues to be an understatement. And realizing the potential of a first mission and its impact on scientific 
 
 discovery, rewriting theories coming up with new theories is something unprecedented for us.
 
GIOKOS: Right. Well just ahead extreme heat waves. New research paints a nightmare scenario of devastating temperatures in countries that probably 
 
 won't be able to cope with it. That's all coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
GIOKOS: With only two months to go until the COP28 Climate Change Conference here in the UAE, we know that the world is heating up, but it's 
 
 getting hotter and a lot faster. That's the word from scientists at Bristol University in England. And in this region, Afghanistan has been named one 
 
 of the hotspots for high-risk heat waves.
 
But the new study paints a scary scenario not only for Afghanistan, but for any nation that's not prepared to deal with the extreme heat. And I want to 
 
 bring in CNN's Chief Climate Correspondent Bill Weir. I knew you and I were going to be talking again at some point over the next few days.
 
Bill listen, I think that this is one of the big fears because there's very little you can do when it gets really hot and the Middle East is extremely 
 
 vulnerable to the effects of climate change. What did we find?
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: Well, this study looked at about 60 years of history in addition to all the latest climate models 
 
 going forward. And really tried to identify these spots that seem most vulnerable because they've been fortunate to avoid these monstrous record 
 
 shattering heat waves like we saw in British Columbia, for example, a couple of years ago that burned down an entire town.
 
But if you put that map back up, you'll get a sense of the regions that have medium low or high risk for these insanely abnormal heat waves. And 
 
 the green as you see there is a medium risk and that includes vast swaths of the country. And actually, it has, this has the Middle East as a lower 
 
 risk.
 
But just that one big bloodshed around Afghanistan, there you see a country that's already struggling with resources. If a record shattering heatwave 
 
 were to hover there for a week, what would that do to infrastructure? But sharing that same alarm is Beijing and the 250 million people who live 
 
 there.
 
And then just above that, in Siberia, over there, Eastern Siberia, not a lot of people live there. But a heat wave would have devastating 
 
 consequences on unlocking all the biological methane that's locked up in permafrost. And so, everything is connected in various ways. Folks in 
 
 Central America get hit one of these red patches, that means more migration up to the United States and the politics involved.
 
GIOKOS: It means so much right? I guess the question then becomes how do you reduce risks like this? What can you do?
 
WEIR: There are only two steps to take is try to avoid making the problem worse by burning fossil fuels, but also prepare cooling centers adaptation 
 
 to this new normal to protect your populace.
 
GIOKOS: Yes, Bill, you know, I think that this is one of those existential threats, those that the code read that the U.N. keeps talking about. And 
 
 you and I had a conversation last week about carbon sequestration, for example. You know, you've been at this for such a long time, how much real 
 
 commitment is there to try not only mitigating, righting, the effects of climate change, but to actively reverse the damage that has been done?
 
WEIR: Well, nowhere near the need. You know, humanity continues, because so much of our modern life is tied to fossil fuels, everything in our lives, 
 
 the plastics, every you know, containers, everything has to be reimagined, and it will happen. The economics are making sense to that end. But we're 
 
 at the very beginning of that process now.
 
And now it's sort of bracing for what's sort of built in, adapting to what we can as it unfolds, but certain changes are inevitable. But hopefully, 
 
 knowledge is power. And humans are capable of incredible things, when all rowing in the same direction. Whether it takes a mindset shift or whether 
 
 it takes the forces of unnatural disaster to force that, who knows, we'll see.
 
GIOKOS: Yes, I know, and sadly, with human behavior, sometimes it's got to be incentivized. Quickly bring up that map again, please, my producer 
 
 Elizabeth, if you can. I'm going to move back to Johannesburg, because I see that as low risk and I think it's green. I invite you though Bill.
 
WEIR: Medium route.
 
GIOKOS: To Dubai and Abu Dhabi, its medium OK, I invite you to Dubai and Abu Dhabi; we're getting to extreme heat. I tell you, the 50 degrees 
 
 Celsius I've experienced over the summer months.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
It was like mind blowing, absolutely shocking. I don't know how much hotter it can get. Bill, I hope to see you soon. You're coming for COP28, I'm 
 
 sure, we'll see you soon in the region.
 
WEIR: OK, Eleni. Yes. Thank you. Good talking to you.
 
GIOKOS: Good talking to you as always. All right, as the climate crisis rapidly alters our world, you can explore more of what is at risk and what 
 
 we're seeing coming through. We'll show you how much can be saved if the world acts quickly enough.
 
All of you have to do, all you have to do -- me is head to cnn.com or you can find it online your CNN app. Well, that's it for me, Eleni Giokos here 
 
 in Abu Dhabi. "One World" is up next with Zain Asher. Well, take care.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END