Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Looking Ahead to the 2024 Presidential Election; India Made History as the 4th Nation to Ever Touch Down on the Moon; Summer Swimmers at Beaches Across America Are On The Lookout For Sharks. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired August 24, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hey everyone, it`s your boy Coy. Happy Thursday or as I like to say, happy Friday eve. We have a jam-packed show in only 
 
 nine minutes and 52 more seconds to do it. So let`s get to it. 
 
We start today`s show with a touchdown. India touching down on the moon on Wednesday with its crewless spacecraft, Chandrayaan-3. India`s now just the 
 
 fourth country to ever do it. It`s a phenomenal feat that only the United States China and the former Soviet Union have pulled off as well. 
 
Russia attempted this exact mission just this past weekend, but their craft crashed into the surface of the moon. This successful mission could cement 
 
 India as one of our planet`s superpowers in space. India`s craft made a soft landing closer to the moon`s south pole than any other spacecraft in 
 
 history and scientists believe the moon south pole holds water deposits in the form of ice that could be converted into drinking water for astronauts, 
 
 or maybe even rocket fuel. So there`s a possibility that the moon south pole could become a place where future crude missions could stock up and 
 
 travel farther into space. 
 
The 2024 presidential election season is here. U.S. candidates run for president every four years. So Americans will head to the polls to cast 
 
 their vote for president in November of 2024. But a lot has to happen before that like introducing Americans to the candidates and giving those 
 
 candidates a chance to make the case for why they should have the job. 
 
One of the most important tasks before Americans cast a vote for president is to determine who the candidates will be. That`s determined through the 
 
 primary elections. In most cases, the incumbent president, if they haven`t already reached the two-year limit, they will represent their political 
 
 party again. So in this case, current U.S. President Joe Biden will likely represent the Democratic Party come election time. He announced his bid for 
 
 reelection back in April. With president Biden, as the presumptive nominee on the democratic side, much of the attention this go around will be on who 
 
 will become the Republican challenger. 
 
Beginning in January candidates from the Republican party will compete against each other in a primary election to determine who will hold the 
 
 nomination. But every state conducts their own primary election and they don`t all do it the same.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: America politics is dominated by two parties, Republicans, and Democrats. That means only two people have any real chance 
 
 in the presidential election every four years. If you want to help decide who those two candidates are, the primaries are your best chance.
 
It used to be that presidential candidates were selected at party conventions. It was mostly party members who selected delegates, who went 
 
 on a convention to vote. Conventions still happen, but they`re mostly ceremonial since primaries have determined every candidate for more than 50 
 
 years. Here`s where it gets confusing, every state conducts their own primaries and none of them do it exactly the same. They`re spread over the 
 
 course of months in a presidential election here, which is why candidates set up camp in early voting states like Iowa and New Hampshire, South 
 
 Carolina and Nevada. If a candidate banks on Iowa and doesn`t win there, they might have to drop out.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Democrat Martin O`Malley suspending his campaign tonight.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  A surprising finish in New Hampshire can make a candidate blow up on the other hand and give them new momentum.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Tonight, we sure show them what a comeback looks like.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Some states like Iowa have caucuses, which are more like neighborhood meetings than a traditional primary. People show up and 
 
 actually lobby for their candidates. Some states have opened primaries, meaning anyone can take part in the primary, even if they aren`t registered 
 
 party members. Other states have closed primaries, meaning you have to join the party in order to vote. And some states like California are 
 
 experimenting with completely nonpartisan primaries. Although not at the presidential level.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  In a way, the 2024 U.S. presidential election season kicked off last night when the first Republican primary debate was held in Milwaukee, 
 
 Wisconsin. This was the first major stage for these hopefuls to speak about their ideas and policies and a chance for them to make the case as to why 
 
 they should become the next president. 
 
There were eight candidates that qualified and attended last night`s a debate, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, South Carolina Senator Tim Scott, 
 
 former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, Entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy, former Vice President Mike Pence, former New Jersey Governor Chris 
 
 Christie, North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum and former Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson. Former president Donald Trump did not attend. And instead 
 
 released a pre-recorded interview. 
 
You can head to cnn.com for highlights from the debate and to learn more about the candidates. 
 
Ten second trivia.
 
When great white sharks are born, they are known as what?
 
Calves, Pups, Hatchlings, or Whelps?
 
Raise your hand if you said pups. Did you know that from the moment they`re born, great white pups are all on their own. This summer swimmers at 
 
 beaches across America are on the lookout for sharks. With more sharks found along the warmer shores on long island, New York State Park Police, 
 
 they`re deploying an army of drones to monitor them and to help prevent attacks. Police gave CNN`s Clare Duffy, a hands-on demonstration at Jones 
 
 beach in Long Island to see how these drones can help keep swimmers safe.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CPT. RISHI BASDEO, NEW YORK STATE PARK POLICE:  I can`t predict to say whether or not there`s going to be more bites of shark attacks, but what I 
 
 could tell you is that because of the use of drones, the more drones that are flying in the air, there`s the more of a chance of seeing these animals 
 
 in their natural habitat.
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER (voice-over):  This summer shark attacks here on long island have prompted a heightened sense of urgency to keep 
 
 sharks and swimmers distant from one another.
 
Now to New York where this drone footage shows about 50 sharks swimming near the beach of a state park in Long Island That`s where drones like the 
 
 one that spotted 50 sharks at one beach come in.
 
BASDEO:  It has really evolved from search and rescue to now looking for dangerous Marine wildlife.
 
DUFFY:  Here at Jones beach, New York State park police gave CNN a demonstration of how its drone program is helping to spot sharks before 
 
 potential attacks.
 
BASDEO:  Now you`re getting with the drawing a real Supreme aerial view of what`s going on in real time on the waterway.
 
DUFFY:  The Park Police operates a fleet of 19 drones used by officers here in the mobile command center, as well as lifeguards.
 
BASDEO:  This mobile command center that you see behind us can live stream the videos that the drone is looking at in real time and bringing it back 
 
 to some of our police officers. So they can communicate directly with the lifeguards and warn people into water early so they can move out of the 
 
 water of the way of the sharks.
 
DUFFY:  While shark attacks remain relatively rare, sharks are becoming more common on Long Island as warmer waters in recent years attract more 
 
 fish and with more fish come more predators. 
 
(On camera): So this is the kind of drone that the lifeguards are using?
 
BASDEO:  This is exactly what the lifeguards are using. 
 
DUFFY:  And this is the one that you said is around 6,000?
 
BASDEO:  Correct, ma`am. So this bundle case right here is about $6,000. 
 
This is the New York State Park Police.
 
DUFFY:  Monitoring for sharks isn`t the only thing these drones can do. The drone pilots can also equip them with speakers to communicate with swimmers 
 
 who might be lost or disoriented. They can even deploy life saving devices to swimmers before lifeguards could get to them.
 
BASDEO:  Let`s put the cost value here. It`s actually cheaper than calling in a police helicopter, but I`m talking about a quick deployment, setting 
 
 something up really quick to get a fast situational awareness of an incident that is on unfolding is invaluable.
 
DUFFY:  I`m curious what the public reaction to this has been. I imagine seeing drones flying above you with sort of something to get used to, 
 
 people might be hesitant about having cameras. What`s the reaction been like?
 
BASDEO:  For the most part, ma`am, it`s positive. But also I understand the concern. We`re on a strict guidelines when we operate and fly these drones, 
 
 it is not used to surveil the public. It is used to keep them safe. It is used for that search and rescue component.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, I guess you could say she`s the cleanest giraffe on the planet because she is spotless. This rare baby 
 
 giraffe was born without spots at a Tennessee zoo. And the zoo says that giraffe experts believe she`s the only solid colored reticulated giraffe 
 
 anywhere in the world. Born July 31st, she was already six feet tall, but she`ll grow up to 16 to 18 feet. At that point, her neck alone will be six 
 
 feet long, but interestingly we`ll only have seven vertebrae just like us humans. 
 
You can help name this lovely little long neck, the bright zoo Facebook pages, letting people vote on four potential names until September 4th. If 
 
 I could choose any name, it would be Plain Jane. My mom`s name is Jane. Hi mom. 
 
Time for our random thought Thursday. What word in the English language actually becomes shorter when you add two letters to it? Hmm, any guesses? 
 
 If you know it, shout it out. Answer is short. It becomes shorter when you add two letters. 
 
Today`s special shoutout goes to Willis Junior High School in Chandler, Arizona, rise up. Chase those dreams lovely people. Hold on tight, never 
 
 let go. I believe in you. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10.
 
END