Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Ten Killed during Israeli Raid on West Bank; Aftershocks Bring More Misery, Fear and Destruction to Turkiye and Syria; Turkiye Arrests 160 Tied to Shoddy Building Construction; Putin Appears at Military Holiday Concert; South Korean Foreign Minister Says North Korea Must Negotiate; Wall Street's Worst Day since December. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired February 22, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST (voice-over):  Millions (INAUDIBLE) Turkiye after a devastating quake will be questioning President Erdogan's spokesman on 
 
 the government's handling of the crisis. 
 
Russia and China reaffirm relations in Moscow one year into the Ukraine war. 
 
And -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We had to create an environment where North Korea had no choice but to come back to the negotiation table. 
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  As tensions ramp up on the Korean Peninsula, CNN speaks with South Korea's foreign minister. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  I'm Becky Anderson. It's 7 pm here in Abu Dhabi in the UAE. Hello and welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD. We'll have those stories in a 
 
 moment. 
 
First, some developing news from the West Bank. Ten Palestinians have been killed during an Israeli military raid. That is according to Palestinian 
 
 officials. 
 
Israeli authorities say the military's rare daylight operation into Nablus a short time ago was targeting three suspects. Israel says they were, 
 
 quote, "planning attacks in the immediate future." Let's get you straight to CNN's Hadas Gold, who's live from Jerusalem. 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Becky, this was a very unusual middle of the day raid. Typically, when these Israeli military 
 
 raids happen, they happen in the cover of darkness, overnight or in the early morning hours. 
 
So for the Israeli military to carry out a raid like this in the middle of the day and also the scale of the raid. We're looking at the numbers, 
 
 Becky. They are incredibly high even for the last 1.5 years or so. There's been a very violent and deadly year. 
 
These numbers are some of the highest I've seen in my time here, 10 Palestinians killed. Something like 100 injured. The Palestinian news here 
 
 pub (ph) says that most of those injured were by live ammunition and six are in critical condition. 
 
Now among the 10 killed, we do have confirmation from some militant groups that some of them were included, at least two commanders of the Islamic 
 
 Jihad. We're still working out who exactly the dead and the wounded are. 
 
Suffice to say that there may be some bystanders caught up in this, especially when you look at some of the ages of those killed. We know at 
 
 least two of them were over the age of 60. At least one of them was 16 years old. 
 
We're still looking at these details. But just the numbers that we're seeing on this operation in Nablus in the occupied West Bank is incredibly 
 
 unusual. 
 
And when you put it into the context of what's been happening, keep in mind just about two or three weeks ago, about a month ago, there was a similar 
 
 operation in Jenin, which has been another hot spot of militant activity. Similar numbers of killed. 
 
But way fewer when it comes in terms of numbers of injuries. These are numbers, these are the types of operations that some say we have not seen 
 
 since the Second Intifada, since the days of the Second Intifada. 
 
We've been talking, it seems, almost daily, Becky, about the cycle of violence, how deadly it's been. So far, this year, 61 Palestinians have 
 
 been killed, according to Palestinian authorities. 
 
Meanwhile, 11 Israelis have been killed so far just this year. We're not even at the end of February. 
 
Another thing we should keep in mind after this operation today is Gaza. If these two commanders are part of Islamic Jihad -- and we're hearing from 
 
 the armed factions in Gaza, saying that their patience is running out -- we may very well likely see a reaction from Gaza. 
 
That might come in the form of rockets fired and the Israeli modus operandi is to respond to absolutely any rocket fire with airstrikes. Keep in mind, 
 
 it was in August we saw that sort of 2-3 day escalation between Islamic Jihad and the Israeli military. 
 
There is a very good chance that we will see that once again, potentially even tonight. Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Hadas Gold is in Jerusalem with more on that developing story as we get it. Thank you. 
 
Anger, despair and fear:  more than two weeks after a devastating earthquake shattered their homes and businesses, millions of people in 
 
 southern Turkiye are struggling through continued aftershocks. 
 
A magnitude 6.4 shock and dozens of smaller quakes that hit Monday killed another six people and injured hundreds more, adding to the enormous human 
 
 toll of this tragedy. More than 48,000 dead in Turkiye and Syria. Nada Bashir has been covering the impact of this disaster since the outset. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
ANDERSON:  She connects us this hour from southern Turkiye.
 
Just describe for us what you are seeing on the ground there today. 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Becky, 2.5 weeks on, we are in Antakya -- and I have to say, it feels like a ghost town here. Authorities tell us 
 
 that some 80 percent at least of people from this city have now left, either because their homes were destroyed, they collapsed in the 
 
 earthquake, or they're simply too unsafe to return here. 
 
You can look at the destruction behind me. Some of these homes, some of these apartment blocks have completely collapsed. There is nothing left. 
 
 And the search and rescue operations for survivors is long over. 
 
You can see on this side of me, there are still some apartments standing. You can see some of those personal belongings inside, some of the 
 
 furniture, a reminder of the fact that people here and across southeast Turkiye have lost so much. 
 
There are thousands and thousands of people who have been left homeless, some 900,000 people currently living in tents. We visited some of those 
 
 camps that have been set out for people displaced, some where there is quite a bit of infrastructure already set up. A bigger hub, if you like. 
 
We visited one just on the outskirts of Iskander, just about an hour's drive from here. The majority of families there were Syrian families, who 
 
 have already been displaced by the war in Syria. 
 
We spoke to one gentleman, an elderly man. He told us that he arrived in Turkiye three years prior. He's been through so much. He simply was 
 
 distraught of the fact he is now homeless. Some of his relatives dead. His loved ones, his wife still in the hospital. He's still waiting for news 
 
 from them. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  I came here from Syria three years ago. Maarat was destroyed, Maarat al-Numan was destroyed. We came here. We 
 
 fled the bombardment. And here we are now. 
 
How does God do this to us? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR:  Becky, here in Antakya we are still seeing authorities on the ground. There are diggers everywhere. There's dust in the air from the 
 
 concrete all over the place here in the city. There are still efforts to try and clear up the rubble. 
 
This is a process that is going to take months, if not years. There are continued calls for support, notably from the Turkish government or from 
 
 the international community. This is a process that is going to take months. 
 
While the Turkish government said it plans to rebuild the affected areas within a year, seeing the destruction, seeing the scale of the devastation, 
 
 it feels like it could take far longer than that. Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Nada Bashir is on the ground for you. Thank you. 
 
The impact of this disaster on quake survivors, as you can imagine, from Nada's reporting there, cannot be overstated. The Turkish president Recep 
 
 Tayyip Erdogan moving quickly on earthquake recovery, launching new economic measures to help workers and employers, including a ban on the 
 
 layoffs in 10 of the hardest hit cities. 
 
And payroll assistance for damaged businesses, even as the government faces criticism over what critics call shoddy construction practices that led to 
 
 so much destruction. Those are the allegations at least. 
 
This is all happening as Turkiye faces other pressing issues, including talk of possibly postponing elections currently scheduled for mid May. 
 
There's also been Turkiye's resistance to fast-tracking the ascension (sic) of Finland and Sweden into NATO, something that I do want to discuss with 
 
 my next guest, who is uniquely positioned to address these issues facing Turkiye right now. 
 
Ibrahim Kalin is Turkiye's presidential spokesperson. He's joining me now from Ankara. 
 
We very much appreciate the time, sir. The earthquake has been devastating. Our hearts go out to all of those who have lost family and friends. We, of 
 
 course, we're on the ground as a team in the immediate aftermath. 
 
Residents, those who survived, now living in fear that, at any moment, this could happen again. I know hundreds of thousands of tents have been erected 
 
 in Turkiye. 
 
What's the short and long term plan at this point? 
 
Where will these people live?
 
IBRAHIM KALIN, TURKISH PRESIDENTIAL SPOKESPERSON:  Well, as you have reported, we have never seen anything like this. A devastating earthquake, 
 
 not just one, not just two, a number of them and almost 7,000 aftershocks after the two big earthquakes on February 6th. 
 
But also just the day before yesterday, in Hatay again, a 6.4. The newer in Tagan Marash (ph), which we had just left Hatay about 1.5 hours ago. But we 
 
 felt it even in Marash (ph) which is about a two-hour drive from the epicenter. 
 
It shows the scale of the series of earthquakes. It's been devastating, of course. Over 100,000 buildings, actual buildings, with a lot of apartments 
 
 in them have either collapsed or been damaged and will be evacuated or will be demolished. So we are taking every measure. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
KALIN:  We have already set up over 300,000 tents in the affected areas. We're sending more every single day, tens of thousands of tents, 
 
 containers, prefabric houses and other types of temporary housing are being sent to the area. 
 
We are mobilizing all of our resources, our industrial complexes are producing tents and other things, containers. We're also getting help from 
 
 outside. Qatar is providing about 10,000 containers. We have NATO helping us, setting up capacity for 4,000 people capacity, fortified tent temporary 
 
 housing. 
 
We're getting containers, tents from everywhere, from Gulf, from China, from Russia, from Pakistan, from Germany, from all over the world. Of, 
 
 course we are facing a major disaster. It's really huge. We've never seen anything like this. 
 
Ten, 11 cities affected all at the same time, a huge area. Therefore, it will take some time to get everything in order obviously. But we are 
 
 working day and night. Our government agencies as well as NGOs, they're on the ground, they're helping people. 
 
We are advising people not to go into demolished or damaged houses. So that's why we're providing extra tents at this point. There will be, as I 
 
 said, tens of thousands more tents being sent to the region. 
 
We were there with the president yesterday and the day before yesterday after our first tour of the tent cities. Things are moving on the ground 
 
 but there is still a lot of work to do to help our people. 
 
There is fear, understandably, because aftershocks are not small. They are big and this big fault line, experts tell us, is likely to move again. 
 
 Where, when and how exactly, we don't know. That's why we're taking every precaution possible. 
 
We are moving I believe, 1.6 million, around 1.6 million people already out of the area to Ankara, Istanbul, other cities already. The means are 
 
 available for people to leave. We are providing free airfare, providing free bus rides and train rides and other facilities like hotels. 
 
ANDERSON:  All right.
 
KALIN:  The Ankara region have been made available for those people. Dormitories, government buildings, public places, mosques and other places, 
 
 stadiums, sports complex. Everything is being provided for people outside those areas as well. 
 
So for those who would like to leave, we are providing the means for them to do so. Those who would like to stay, we're providing tents, containers, 
 
 prefabric houses. And we will be doing more in the days and weeks to come. 
 
ANDERSON:  It's a long term plan, isn't it, at this point, which is going to need some real thought. We've seen growing frustration from the public. 
 
 Of course, one resident saying the country is prone to earthquakes. They should be protecting our neighborhoods. 
 
You've alluded to the scope and scale of this devastation. It's clearly been enormous. The questions have been asked about whether Turkiye was 
 
 adequately prepared. 
 
How do you respond?
 
KALIN:  As I said, we've never seen anything like this. When you have an earthquake in one or two spots, other neighboring cities or centers usually 
 
 come to their aid. This time, we had this earthquake in 10 major cities, affecting 13.5 million people with an area of 100,000 square kilometers. 
 
So it created a lot of logistical problems on the ground. But we're dealing with the devastation right now. We're providing all this help. And we are 
 
 also preparing a new action plan, a new response mechanism. It'll be faster. 
 
But more importantly, we will be building earthquake resistant buildings. Our president has said that we will not be going to make any discrimination 
 
 between lightly damaged or damaged buildings. They will all be demolished. They will all be rebuilt again, regardless of the degree of the damage. 
 
That of, course, requires work. We are planning to build the first 200,000 new earthquake resistant houses over the next year. The work has already 
 
 begun. The next couple of weeks we will be seeing more work being done for the people. 
 
Of course, we will be upgrading our response mechanism. It will be faster. Our official agencies, NGOs and others. But this issue of being prepared 
 
 for an earthquake, of course, there is always more to do. No doubt.
 
Those who have raised these concerns have a point and we take it very seriously. We are listening to the expert scientists, seismologists, 
 
 geotechnicians and others. And we will be building our new facilities, according to the scientific criteria. There is no doubt about it. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
KALIN:  There's a political debate going on, political parties accusing others, et cetera. I'm putting all that aside. What we are focusing on now 
 
 is to make sure that we provide this help as immediate help to our people. But also we build a better future, a safer future for them in terms of 
 
 their houses, cities, infrastructure. 
 
ANDERSON:  Ibrahim Kalin -- and the former World Bank director, somebody outside of some Turkish politics, the former World Bank director for 
 
 Turkiye spoke about how construction amnesties in the past were given to developers for constructing projects without the necessary safety 
 
 requirements. 
 
She said, and I quote, "They just go ahead and make the building they. don't follow the code. They know that at some point some politicians 
 
 because they're financing their political parties will grant them an amnesty. That is a huge problem," she said. 
 
You just explained where you are at and conceding that more could've been done in the past. I want you to respond very specifically to those 
 
 amnesties that were granted in the past and provide some sort of support to the argument that says this won't happen again. 
 
KALIN:  We have taken a number of very strict measures over the last decade, especially after we had a number of earthquakes also in the eastern 
 
 part of the country but also in Izmir a couple of years ago, in Bingol and in a few other places as well. They of course, were on a much smaller scale 
 
 than what we have now. 
 
So we have taken a number of measures. If you look at the codes, for example, being updated through the ministry but also the regulations and 
 
 their implementation, there is always more, as I said, to do to protect people, to create more resistant buildings. Of course, we'll be doing that 
 
 more seriously after seeing all this. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ANDERSON:  And you won't be granting amnesties in the -- ?
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ANDERSON:  Is that your point?
 
KALIN:  Well, you know, if people follow these codes strictly, these regulations are implemented serious. And, of course, we are in a position 
 
 to inspect those and make sure that those codes are followed. 
 
Of, course we will be in a much better position. That of, course -- I don't want to deflect responsibility here in any way. We are in a position of 
 
 responsibility and we have to take action, no doubt. 
 
But it's also a matter of a culture of understanding. And everybody following these guidelines and regulations, individuals, constructors, 
 
 private sector, municipalities, center of government, everybody. I think we all are learning really great lessons, very costly and sad but great 
 
 lessons from all this. 
 
And we will certainly be following those strict regulations to make sure that we don't -- we don't -- you know, of course, earthquakes can happen 
 
 anytime. But we are prepared when that happens. 
 
ANDERSON:  The impact of course has been devastating in northwest Syria. 
 
Has President Erdogan communicated with the Syrian president Bashar al- Assad?
 
KALIN:  No, he hasn't. But we are in touch with the Syrian officials but also, the local people. Most of the areas affected are close to the Turkish 
 
 border. And we are in touch with the local authorities, local governors. We have some of our own people helping them on the ground. 
 
So we are collaborating with the U.N., other international agencies, humanitarian aid organizations. We're allowing through two main gates the 
 
 assistance that is going to Syria. We will likely increase that. 
 
In fact, we want to open up new gates, new border crossings, so that more aid goes to Syria. Honestly, I don't think anybody has a very clear or 
 
 reassuring picture of what exactly happened in Syria. We are hearing different numbers et cetera. 
 
But it's a wide area. I know different numbers have been spelled, like 5,000, 6,000 casualties. Could be more; I hope it's not. But we are doing 
 
 everything we can to help them and also allowing international aid to go to Syria as well. 
 
ANDERSON:  Ibrahim Kalin, appreciate your time. 
 
Briefly, last question for you, reports emerging that President Erdogan is aiming to keep the election date for May the 14th but that it could slide 
 
 to mid June. 
 
Is that likely?
 
KALIN:  Well, there is a call for -- by opposition parties also to hold the elections on May 14th, as it was declared before. We don't know at this 
 
 point yet whether that will change or not. Of course, that's up to high election committee. They make the final decision on this. 
 
But if the political parties come together and agree on postponing it to June 18th, again, it's a possibility. But right now, it looks like it will 
 
 be on May 14th. As I said, the president cannot decide on his own when it will happen. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
KALIN:  The parliament will have to have an opinion about this. But then ultimately, the high election committee will decide whether elections can 
 
 be held in the affected areas in the 10 cities. 
 
We have more than 2 million people that have moved out of the area. 
 
How will they be able to vote on the places in which they will be on election day? 
 
Some technicalities there. But there seems to be a tendency to hold it on time in May unless, as I said, some political consultation leads to another 
 
 conclusion in the days to come. 
 
ANDERSON:  Ibrahim Kalin, appreciate your time. Thank you very much indeed for joining us. 
 
Just ahead, reaffirming ties at the highest level. What Vladimir Putin told China's top diplomat is up next. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Let's connect you to Moscow where Russia and China are being -- reaffirming their ties in the past few hours. A meeting at the Kremlin, 
 
 Putin told China's top diplomat that Chinese-Russian relations are reaching what he called new milestones. And that cooperation between both sides is 
 
 needed to, quote, "stabilize the international situation." 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator):  International relations today are complex. They have not improved after the collapse of 
 
 the bipolar system. 
 
On the contrary, they have become more tense and, in this regard, cooperation between Russia and the Chinese people's republic on the 
 
 international arena are very important for the stabilization of international situations, as we have said many times. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Fred Pleitgen is in Moscow with more. 
 
He may have said that many times; you would've heard it many times. Let's start firstly with what Vladimir Putin was doing today in Moscow. We saw 
 
 similar scenes with Biden in Warsaw yesterday. 
 
Is this a response of sorts to that?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, this was planned a long time in advance. But certainly, this is definitely Vladimir 
 
 Putin. It seems really trying to rally the Russian nation in the face of what is a very tough campaign that they're fighting in Ukraine. 
 
The war in Ukraine has been going very difficult for the Russians as of late, last couple of months. Obviously, Vladimir Putin now trying to rally 
 
 the nation. Officially, what we're seeing on your screen right now is actually Vladimir Putin at that event. 
 
It's an event to commemorate Defenders of the Fatherland Day, which is a public holiday here in Russia. However, right now, a lot of it is in the 
 
 context with what the Russians called "a special military operation" in Ukraine. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
PLEITGEN:  Putin talking about the conflict there being a fight existential for the Russians, trying to rally people behind it. 
 
I was close to that venue earlier today. There were a lot of people who were coming in there. The Russians were saying around 200,000 attended that 
 
 event. Obviously, it's something that has shown here to the Russian nation and is meant to keep people behind that effort that's been going very 
 
 difficult.
 
Also, Becky, as we come close to the one year anniversary and in the wake of President Biden there in Warsaw, making his speech in a day after 
 
 Vladimir Putin made his fundamental speech, addressing both houses of Russian parliament. 
 
Really once again talking about the fact that Russia really views this as a war that is very important to itself, to the existence of the Russian 
 
 nation. Definitely one the Russians are saying they are nowhere near backing down, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  We were reporting on the Russia-China meeting today, reaffirming ties in Moscow. 
 
What did you make of what has been reported and what was discussed?
 
PLEITGEN:  I think there were several things that were key about this meeting. First of, all the fact that Wang Yi met with Vladimir Putin, the 
 
 head of state of the Russian Federation, shows how important these ties are for Russia. How important China is to Russia. And how Russia's been 
 
 expanding and trying to expand its ties with China. 
 
I think there were several things we picked up. That sound bite we just played from Vladimir (ph) to Putin talking about how the relations had 
 
 continued to evolve and continue to get better. We know that the relations between Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin are exceptional. 
 
And that the two consider each other to be friends. At the same time, you had Wang Yi who was taking a swipe at the Biden administration. The Biden 
 
 administration had said they were quite concerned, believing that Beijing might be on the cusp or contemplating giving Russia lethal aid for use in 
 
 the war in Ukraine. 
 
Wang Yi, when speaking to Vladimir Putin, said that he also believes that the relations are very good. And that they were, as he put it, not subject 
 
 to interference from third countries. That certainly seemed to be addressing the United States, saying that China does not want any advice 
 
 from the U.S. when it comes to dealing with Russia and dealing with other nations as well. 
 
But in total, this is an extremely important meeting to Vladimir Putin, extremely important relations for Vladimir Putin. 
 
You can see it really in the Russian economy. Russian oil and gas is sort of being redirected to but also on the streets here in Moscow with all the 
 
 Russian products -- excuse me -- with all the products, Chinese cars out on the road right now. This is very key for the Russian leader. 
 
ANDERSON:  Fred Pleitgen is in Moscow. Fred, thank you. 
 
Meantime in Warsaw, the U.S. president attending a meeting of the so-called Bucharest Nine. That is a group of Eastern European nations that came 
 
 together after Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014. 
 
Polish president Andrzej Duda slamming Russia's brutal aggression in Ukraine. Joe Biden urged the continued importance of unity. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN (D), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Today, as we approach the one year anniversary of Russia's further invasion, it's even more important 
 
 that we continue to stand together. Now I think this is proof of this, how strongly we feel. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now. 
 
And a disappointing outcome for a British woman, who left the U.K. as a teenager to join ISIS. Shamima Begum was stripped of her British 
 
 citizenship as a result and today she lost an appeal against the 2019 decision. Her legal team says the case is not over. 
 
In Brazil, Sao Paulo state government is now reporting 48 deaths caused by the recent landslides there. Heavy rain hit several coastal cities during 
 
 their busy Carnival holiday, likely aggravating the death toll. While visiting affected regions on Monday, Brazil's president pledged to rebuild 
 
 the towns with safer homes. 
 
Germany's expelled two Iranian diplomats and some of the Iranian embassy's charge d'affaires. The move comes after Tehran sentenced to death a German 
 
 Iranian man. Germany's foreign minister called on Iran to revoke the death sentence. 
 
Still to come, North Korea's Kim Jong-un enjoys showing off his military hardware but his ICBM tests are making neighboring countries tense. We're 
 
 live in Seoul with the details on that. 
 
And is it safe to come out after the worst -- the worst day of the year? 
 
Investors feeling a little bruised. Let's see if the U.S. Fed has any words of comfort. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Welcome back. Just after half past 7:00 here in Abu Dhabi. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD, I'm Becky Anderson for you. 
 
A recap of our top story:  it's been a bloody day in the occupied West Bank, I'm afraid. Palestinian officials say at least 10 Palestinians were 
 
 killed in an Israeli raid on Nablus. The Israeli Defense Forces, Alaska the IDF, said it was targeting three suspects who, quote, "were planning 
 
 attacks in the future," in the immediate future. 
 
A Palestinian health ministry document shows all three of those suspects are among the dead. Palestinian officials say today's raid brings the 
 
 number of Palestinians killed by Israeli forces this year alone to 61. 
 
Orations between North and South Korea are at a low ebb as Kim Jong-un's regime continues to test intercontinental ballistic missiles. Now Seoul's 
 
 greatest fear is Pyongyang is preparing to fly an ICBM farther than ever before. The goal:  to put pressure on the United States. 
 
CNN's correspondent Paula Hancocks joins me now from Seoul. 
 
You have spoken to the South Korean foreign minister, Paula. 
 
What did he have to say about the current situation?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Becky, his basic message was North Korea is definitely moving in the wrong direction. And he was trying to 
 
 convince them to come back to the negotiating table. 
 
Now of, course we have seen a lot of activity from Pyongyang in recent weeks and months and they are showing absolutely no interest in talking to 
 
 either the South Koreans or the Americans at this point. 
 
What we did hear from Park Jin is that North Korea is escalating the threat with missile and nuclear activity and they are calling for a more 
 
 coordinated effort, international and within the U.N. Security Council, to try and put a stop to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over):  An ICBM launch, a military parade and a threat to use the Pacific Ocean as a firing range, a busy month so far for North 
 
 Korea. 
 
PARK JIN, SOUTH KOREAN FOREIGN MINISTER:  North Korea may want to be recognized as a de facto nuclear state. But my government will not accept a 
 
 nuclear North Korea. 
 
HANCOCKS:  Do you think Kim Jong-un would ever give up his nuclear weapons?
 
PARK:  He may not voluntarily renounced nuclear weapons. But the important thing is that we have to create an environment where North Korea has no 
 
 choice but to come back to the negotiation table. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
HANCOCKS:  Are there any back channels open at the moment?
 
PARK:  Not at the moment, no. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over):  U.S.-South Korea military drills have intensified in recent months, angering Pyongyang. The growing call for South Korea to 
 
 have its own nuclear program is neither realistic nor viable, according to Park, preferring to rely on a 70-year old alliance and U.S. extended 
 
 deterrence. 
 
PARK:  We are now currently discussing with the United States on how we can strengthen the extended deterrence. There is under what circumstances and 
 
 in what way the U.S. nuclear umbrella can be activated in times of crisis. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over):  Park believes Pyongyang is learning from the war in Ukraine, taking advantage of the world looking elsewhere. 
 
PARK:  Russia is now indicating to use their tactical nuclear weapons against Ukraine. And North Korea is also threatening to use the tactical 
 
 nuclear weapons. 
 
HANCOCKS:  The relation between Russia and North Korea concern you?
 
PARK:  Yes, it is our concern that Russia and North Korea are cooperating in various ways. And we have to prepare ourselves against any kind of 
 
 further provocation by North Korea based on that relationship. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over):  The White House announcing in December they believe North Korea has delivered rockets and missiles to Russian mercenary group 
 
 Wagner. 
 
As for Taiwan and China's threats to take control of the island by force if necessary -- 
 
PARK:  We are opposed to unilateral change of status quo by force. So in that sense, we will make sure that, if something happens in the Taiwan 
 
 Strait, we have to maintain peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula because it'll have a direct impact on our country. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANCOCKS:  Park was very clear that the future of South Korea lies firmly with the United States. Also pointing out and highlighting that this year 
 
 marks the 70th year of the two countries' alliance -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Fascinating. Paula, thank you. Paula Hancocks is in Seoul. 
 
Still ahead, the bears of Wall Street are mostly gone for now. But don't get too comfortable. The Fed's minutes from the last meeting could start 
 
 another slide. 
 
And what can be said about last night at Anfield?
 
Liverpool fans still looking for answers. Details on that after this. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Wall Street back in the red at this hour after Tuesday's bloody sell-off. 
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
ANDERSON:  All three of the major U.S. indices fell by at least 2 percent on the day yesterday with the Nasdaq dropping the most. Here's how U.S. 
 
 stocks are faring right now. 
 
Asia finished its trading day in the red. Europe looks like it could do the same. This pretty much coming off the back of what happened in the U.S. 
 
 yesterday. Weak outlooks from U.S. retail giants Walmart and Home Depot were what spooked investors on Tuesday. 
 
Investors also looking for interest rate clues from the Fed's meeting minutes. CNN's Rahel Solomon covering all of this. She is live from New 
 
 York. 
 
It's a bit messy but not as messy as it was yesterday. 
 
What can we expect from these minutes being released later today? 
 
And how is that having an effect on markets both in and outside the U.S.?
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Becky, investors are waiting with bated breath for that release around 2 pm Eastern here the U.S. Here is what 
 
 we're looking for. Any indication of what Fed policymakers may have been thinking at that last Federal Reserve meeting. 
 
We already know, Becky, that two policy makers have argued at that meeting that there was a case for higher rate hikes, for more aggressive rate 
 
 hikes. So a lot has happened over the last few weeks. That's why it's going to be very important what the Fed says in terms of what it expects. 
 
Let's go through just the last few weeks because a lot has changed. February 1st is when we last heard from the Federal Reserve. That's when 
 
 they raised rates 25 basis points, the smallest rate hike since the beginning of this rate hiking cycle. 
 
Then take a look, Becky, just a few days later after we heard from the Fed on February 3rd, I believe it was, we got that monster blockbuster January 
 
 jobs report, which showed the U.S. economy added more than 500,000 jobs. 
 
For context, that is three times what most economists were expecting. The unemployment rate ticking to a fresh 50 year low. 
 
Then the following week, February 14th and 16th, we got two hotter than expected inflation reports; CPI, PPI. 
 
Just the following day, February 15th, we got a strong January retail sales report. You put all of this together, Becky, you can understand these are 
 
 indications that, one, the labor market certainly isn't slowing down but the economy isn't slowing down. 
 
It could potentially be overheating. You think about the labor market, think about the demand for workers and you think about the impact on wages. 
 
 The concern that, one, that continues to fuel consumer spending, which the Fed is trying to tamp down on, as it tries to cool inflation. But also that 
 
 could trickle into higher prices. 
 
You mentioned Home Depot. Home Depot said yesterday that it's investing an additional $1 billion in wages because of the tight labor market. 
 
ANDERSON:  You could argue that it would be careless not to continue raising rates when you look at those stats that you just gave us that we 
 
 had up on the screen. Take it too far, of course, and the central bank risks taking U.S. economy into recession, however mild that might be. 
 
And nobody else around the world wants to see that, because, of course, what happens in the States still has an impact on economies around the 
 
 world. 
 
Always a pleasure, Rahel, thank you very much indeed. 
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
(SPORTS) 
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END