Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Israel: New Phase Of War As Gaza Ground Operations Expand; Families Of Israeli Hostages Fearful As Military Expands Ground Operation In Gaza; Hamas Claims It's Ready To Swap Hostages For All Palestinian Prisoners; Near-Total Communications Blackout Grips Gaza. Aired 8-9p ET

Aired October 28, 2023 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[20:00:33]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Hello. Welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm John Vause in Atlanta with our continuing coverage of Israel's war with Hamas. 
 
And the Israeli prime minister has set out in stark detail the second stage of Israel's war with Hamas, which has two main objectives, he says -- destroy the enemy, and free the hostages. It's been a day and a night of relentless Israeli shelling. Israel says Hamas tunnels have been targeted as well as underground combat zones, all the while Israeli ground forces are expanding their operations inside Gaza. 
 
During a nationally televised news conference, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced this new phase of the war and what he says will be the endgame. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Our heroic fighters have one goal: to destroy this enemy, and to make sure that the existence in our country, never again --never again is now. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Well, the families of more than 200 hostages being held by Hamas and other militant groups are now concerned this expanded ground operation will endanger the lives of their loved ones. 
 
Israel's defense minister, though, says this new phase of the war will actually help with their release. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOAV GALLANT, ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER (through translator): As we hit Hamas harder, there is a better chance that the enemy agrees to solutions to the return of our dear, loved, and beloved ones. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Hamas has given every indication that it's willing to negotiate the hostages for all of the Palestinian prisoners being held in Israeli jails. But Israel's military has dismissed that meant to manipulate the families of those being held as well as Israeli civilians. 
 
Inside Gaza, a near total communications blackout, hospitals filled to capacity, unable to accept anymore patients. Aid groups say they're already in a dire situation and that's getting worse, with little food, fuel, and medical supplies in Gaza is quickly used up. 
 
Joining us now live from Tel Aviv, CNN's Rafael Romo.
 
And, Rafael, at the same time, there has been this continued rocket fire coming from Gaza in southern and central Israel -- landing in southern and central Israel as well. So they are running out of everything, it seems, in Gaza, except the missiles and the rockets. 
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, that's right, John. And we have felted here where we are, hour by hour, very heavy artillery fire that we can hear at a distance here, also CNN teams elsewhere in Israel have seen a lot of activity tonight and let me tell you that message from the prime minister, very significant because he spoke at length about what comes next during the televised address to his country just a few hours ago. 
 
This was a joint appearance with his defense minister, and former defense minister Benny Gantz, Netanyahu said that the second stage of the war against Hamas has begun. The goal of this phase, he said, is destroying the group's armed wing, and government and returning home all the hostages held in Gaza. The Prime Minister Netanyahu drew a connection between the conflict with Hamas and the Arab Israeli War between 1947 and 1949, which occurred as Israel declared its independence. 
 
And, John, Netanyahu said, quote, the war inside of Gaza is going to be long. This is our second independence war. We're going to save our country. 
 
We were in Ashkelon on Thursday, and noticed airstrikes on Gaza have intensified. We have also noticed just hours ago, here in Tel Aviv how Hamas is still launching rocket attacks from Gaza, at least one of those rockets got through on Friday and hit a residential building, leaving several people injured. 
 
And Netanyahu also spoke about the situation of the hostages, confirming he spoke with their families and vowed to them that he would exhaust all options to return their loved ones. 
 
And John, during the same media briefing, Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant said the intensifying assault will increase the chances Hamas will return hostages it is holding in Gaza, the family -- the relatives of these hostages don't necessarily agree with them. But that's what he said. 
 
And regarding a cease-fire, there are several countries demanding one, including the UAE, and Norway, as well as institutions including the United Nations and the World Health Organization, all asking for at least a pause, John, in the hostilities to allow for humanitarian aid to get into Gaza. 
 <br>[20:05:03]
 
Now, back to you. 
 
VAUSE: Rafael, listening to Benjamin Netanyahu during that televised news conference, it really did seem as though he was preparing the nation for what will be a long road ahead. Did he give any indication of a timeline here? Because you know, Israel's war of independence lasted three months, and 1 percent of the population died during the conflicts of the Israel and Arab war. 
 
So, from Benjamin Netanyahu, besides that comparison, was there sort of any indication here of how long, what sort of losses the country may incur? 
 
ROMO: John, that has been the question for at least the last week and a half. It is not a matter of when, of -- it's not -- let me take that back, it is not a matter of if, but a matter of when. And they are not saying anything. 
 
I also had an opportunity to talk to a spokesman with the IDF, and he also said it is going to happen anytime that is convenient for our troops. But what I can tell you is that the number of incursions have increased this week with more, and more special forces, soldiers getting into Gaza and doing these targeted incursions, the artillery fire getting more intense. 
 
And you would get the idea that they are softening the ground so to speak to get into Gaza, to do the big incursion that both the prime minister and the defense minister have been talking about for at least a week now. So, many people waiting here to see what's going to happen, when this big ground incursion is going to happen, John. 
 
VAUSE: Rafael, thank you. Rafael Romo live for us in Tel Aviv with the very latest. 
 
Well, with us this hour now from Little Rock, Arkansas, is CNN military analyst and former NATO supreme allied commander, General Wesley Clark. 
 
It's good to see you, sir. Thank you for taking the time. 
 
GEN. WESLEY CLARK, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Thank you, John. 
 
VAUSE: So, along with the increased number of airstrikes and the artillery fire, we believe which is also hitting Gaza, Israeli forces also want these limited ground operations. But CNN reporting from Gaza says it does not appear as any major ground offensive aimed at seizing, and holding significant amounts of the territories will get underway. And a fresh call for Gazans to move south, of the impending operation. 
 
So, what's your take on what's happening right now as far as these ground operations by the Israelis, and what's your expectation here on timing for a full invasion, and if Israel wants to expand on Hamas infrastructure and destroy leadership, how much territory do they need to hold? 
 
CLARK: It seems that there are Israeli troops inside of Gaza. We know that. We can't tell exactly where they are, we know that there is fighting in this zone before they get into Gaza that's a sort of buffer zone, where we have heard machine gun fire and tank rounds going off and so forth. But they seem to be inside of Gaza. 
 
They do not seem to be withdrawing. Now, how much they are going to do at this point inside of Gaza, we do not know. But operations like this would, if it is launched with the intent to finish the job, move in and sees key terrain. Whatever that is it might be a power plant, it might be a pause under which the tunnels come together. We don't know that here at this point. 
 
But they would then expand outward, close off an area and completely clear it. Now, how that -- how they deal with the people there, that's a problem and so they've got to take it step-by-step, and you've got to try to encourage the Gazans to leave northern Gaza. That is what they are trying to do. Get out of the way and let them deal with the tunnels, and the Hamas people. And then, from there, they might expand it further. And step-by-step, gradually move through Gaza. 
 
But we have not seen enough yet, to know exactly what the pattern of their operation would be or what the military objective would be to accomplish the political objective given by the prime minister of destroying Hamas. 
 
VAUSE: Do you agree with the Israeli defense minister who says any kind of ground incursion, any kind of ground offensive in Gaza will actually help with the release of more than 200 hostages being held by Hamas and other militant groups? 
 
CLARK: It could do that. And I will tell you why. We know from past experience in the region that when Israeli citizens are held hostage, sometimes they're held for a year, sometimes two years, the bodies are back up. Two dead Israeli soldiers have been held for years. It's a strategy, it's a game, it's an effort to extract the maximum concessions from Israel and also to make Israel look as bad as possible in world affairs. 
 
This ground incursion will stir things up. It will get the Hamas chain of command talking. Information will be collected, and because of the movement, the information that is collected, there is a greater chance that Israel will have more information about the hostages. 
 <br>[20:10:00]
 
In addition, the ground incursion as it moves forward is going to give Hamas a choice, because it is, according to the prime minister, going to destroy Hamas, keeping those hostages alive and safe, it is the best exit strategy for Hamas, if its leadership wants to survive. So there's a certain logic in what the Israeli defense minister is saying. 
 
VAUSE: There are military risks for the IDF in its Gaza offensive, this ground offensive. But beyond that, there are also concerns of this, you know, wider conflict across the region from a diplomatic point of view. 
 
How much does that weigh on the IDF when they go in, and also in terms of the political echelon making decisions here? 
 
CLARK: I think that the IDF has to consider this. They still have got troops in the West Bank and there's trouble in the West Bank. They've got troops in the north enough to block a limited incursion by Hezbollah. The United States have two aircraft carriers, and I assume they have a second aircraft carrier offshore. 
 
That's a warning to Iran. And basically you have to believe that Iran and its proxies, they want to post -- they want to posture, they want to take credit and raise funds, and get people to join their group. But they do not want to risk its destruction. 
 
So from the Israeli perspective, they are focused on Gaza. From the United States perspective, we're concerned about the prospect of a wider regional conflict. But for the Israelis, it's 100 percent that they are going in, this is an existential threat, they can't permit Hamas to continue to exist, and they think that this is not only the right way to do it, but it's the right way to get their hostages back. 
 
VAUSE: Israel has also been hitting Hezbollah targets in Lebanon. Hezbollah is an Iranian-backed terror groups. Just a day earlier, Hezbollah deputy chief Naim Qassem met with the delegation from the Iranian parliament. Qassem warned that the Americans and Israelis do not know what the coming days will hold for them should the aggression continue. 
 
You know, given that was a very explicit warning which came from the U.S. president to Iran and its proxies to stay out of this fight, how credible are those words coming from Hezbollah, how much weight does it carry, and what does it mean about the two carriers which the U.S. also had in the region? You know, what message is that sending in light of this? 
 
CLARK: Well, I think that the threat is credible. We know that Hezbollah has a lot of ordinance up there. It could do a lot of damage, if it fires those rockets. They could ground assault and possibly take some Israeli settlements. Iran has theater range ballistic missiles that could join into this. Yeah, there is clearly a threat there. 
 
But the fact that it's publicized like this, this is -- they are taking credit. They're trying to align themselves with Hamas. They are trying to bring in funding and get sport, and get leadership, and hegemonial status in the region. That's the purpose of the Iranian position. It's not to -- they know that it's ongoing to have any impact on Israel. Israel is going in Gaza. 
 
VAUSE: General Wesley Clark, as always, it's great to have you with us. We appreciate your insight, sir. Thank you. 
 
CLARK: Thank you. 
 
VAUSE: We'll take a short break. When we come back, 7,000 airstrikes in 19 days on Gaza, and the children there are paying a heavy price for the enormous impact of this war on Gaza's children in a moment. 
 
And the leading human rights activists who will give us his views on how the ease the suffering of a young adult still trapped in Gaza. 
 
All that and a lot more are still to come here. You are watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Fifteen minutes past the hour. Welcome back. 
 
Calls for humanitarian cease-fire in Gaza are growing louder, with Norway and UAE among the latest countries to demand a pause. But there's been no letup in the fighting. These images from Gaza City obtained by CNN earlier on Saturday. 
 
A journalist in central Gaza says the shelling did not stop on Saturday after the heaviest strikes so far. Internet, phone, and other communications are down throughout the area. The World Health Organization, as well as UNICEF said they've lost contact with their staff on the ground. U.N. secretary general says the unprecedented escalation of bombardments is undermining humanitarian efforts. 
 
The Hamas-run health ministry says more than 7,600 people are being killed in Gaza over the last three weeks. And more than 640,000 people are living in U.N.-run shelters because of the ongoing Israeli airstrikes. 
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh is in Beirut on more about how children are increasingly at risk of this a military offensive as it goes on. 
 
Jomana, Gaza is a young demographic, more than half the people live there are, in fact, you know, under the age of 18. So, they are the ones who do pay the highest price. 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And that's exactly what we've been seeing, John, over the past three weeks. And the situation right now on the ground for them and for so many civilians in Gaza is absolutely catastrophic by all accounts. 
 
You know, we're not able to get a full picture of what is happening on the ground because of that communications near total blackout that you mentioned. But the little video, the little information that has been trickling out because some people still have a satellite connection or some people have international phone lines that they're able to use and get that information out. 
 
It really paints a grim picture of what is happening on the ground. As you know beseeched people are running out of food, fuel, the water has been cut off. Electricity has been cut off, and now communications.
 
And the impact of that has been absolutely devastating as they've been living under the most intense bombardment since the start of the war in the past 24 hours. Not having communications has disrupted the work of the emergency services, the medical staff on the ground who are not able to get to people who need them the most, people are not able to call for rescues, for ambulance is to come and save them we've heard these accounts from journalists on the ground today, John, people carrying their injured, to these overwhelmed hospitals that are on the verge of collapse, absolutely catastrophic. 
 
And even before this intensification in the airstrikes and the bombardment, it was already a horrific and heartbreaking situation and we have to warn viewers that our report they're about to see is graphic, and they will find it disturbing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): It's hard to believe this was Gaza just a few weeks ago. Little Nor (ph) dressed in his finest, dancing with his brother at a wedding. His mother Wesal still can't believe her boy is gone. 
 
He was holding my hand as I took him to make him a sandwich, he says. He didn't get to eat it. Shrapnel cut through his neck, he's now in heaven. God, give me strength to deal with this. 
 
The airstrikes that took six-year-old Nor and other relatives left her with injuries all over her body at the unbearable pain so many Palestinian mothers are having to endure. 
 
There's a void in my heart, I can't even cry, she says. I really want to cry, but the tears are not coming out. Why can't I get it out, I want to cry for my little boy. 
 
Recovering at hospital, she just wants to get back to her three other children, now homeless, sheltering at a school. 
 <br>[20:20:04]
 
Hell is raining down on Gaza, Israel says it's going after Hamas, and doing what it can to spare the innocent. But it is the innocent who are paying the heaviest price. A few hospitals still barely standing, some pictures are too graphic for us to show. But faces here tell of the horrors they survived, and this living nightmare they can't escape. 
 
Three-year-old Judy hasn't uttered a word in 16 days. She won't eat or drink, her father says, still in shock, with a piece of shrapnel lodged in her hand. 
 
What did these children do? We have nothing to do with the resistance, he says. They are just targeting Palestinians. They are killing children because they are Palestinians. To them, we're not humans. 
 
They don't know if she will be able to walk again. Judy is one of the lucky ones, if one can call them that, she still has her father by her side. 
 
Arwa keeps asking for her mom, she's too young to understand, her uncle says. Arwa's lost her mother, her brother, and her sister to. She shows the camera her ouchie. 
 
In every corner of every hospital, so many heart wrenching stories of loss, so hard to comprehend. 
 
Tarin (ph) only weeks up to cry, her and says, in a room with her seven year old brother Kenan. The two were the only two survive in air strike that killed their mother, father, brother, and dozens of their extended family. Kenan doesn't say much these days. 
 
He asked me if we have internet here, he says I want to call mommy and daddy, h                                               is aunt says. Doctors in these overwhelmed hospitals say every day brings a constant stream of children with no parents, injured, they just don't have enough to treat. The little they, have they do what they can. How do you begin to deal with so many going through so much? 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH (on camera): And, John, as you mentioned earlier, we are hearing growing calls from many in the international community, for a immediate and urgent pause in fighting a cease-fire. And warnings that what is happening in Gaza is a violation of international humanitarian law. 
 
Clearly, Israel making it clear they are going to continue with this operation. They are determined, they say, to destroy Hamas. They say they don't target civilians. They accused Hamas of using the people of Gaza as human shields. 
 
But the reality of the situation in Gaza, as you know, 2.2 million people trapped in there, with no place to go. You know, it is -- it is the people of Gaza, right now, the children, as you saw in our report, they are the ones who are paying the heaviest price, John. 
 
VAUSE: Jomana, thank you. Jomana Karadsheh live for us in Beirut, in Lebanon, with that report. 
 
Well, joining me now on the worsening humanitarian crisis in Gaza is Kenneth Roth, former executive director of Human Rights Watch. 
 
Kenneth, thank you for taking the time to speak with us. 
 
KENNETH ROTH, FORMER EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH: Thanks for having me. 
 
VAUSE: So, if there isn't a ceasefire soon, what happens to Gaza? 
 
ROTH: Well, the level of bombardment, as we've seen, the Israelis like to say, oh, we're not targeting civilians. But that's only part of the obligation on them. They are also obliged, by international humanitarian law, not to fire indiscriminately in civilian areas. You've seen entire neighborhoods decimated. They're required not to even hit a military target if civilian consequences will be disproportionate. And that seems to be happening time and time again as they destroy these huge apartment buildings, because an ostensible Hamas presence. 
 
Now, with respect to this broad call for humanitarian pause, which not even the Biden administration is finally belatedly joined, you know, what's needed there is it's not enough for this little trickle of aid to come across the border from Egypt, a tiny percentage of the trucks that usually come into Gaza to meet the needs of 2.2 million people. But how does a good distributed, when there is bombing taking place all around? 
 
You know, we've already seeing many humanitarian workers killed. Today, they don't even have communications. They can't even stay in touch with each other. There really is a need to have a pause, just so that aid can come in in large quantities, and so it can get to the people in need. 
 
VAUSE: To something you said about the requirements under international law, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health looked at the rules of law and how they've been broken during this conflict, along with the use of human shields, it says, Hamas atrocities, including aides horrific massacres of civilians, taking up hostages, and indiscriminate rocket attacks throughout Israel are war crimes. 
 <br>[20:25:09]
 
It also says an investigation is needed to determine if Israel took enough care to distinguish between civilian and military targets, but adds this. The Israel military conducted more than 7,000 strikes in Gaza in the first to 19 days of the war. The sheer number of air strikes in such a short period, in a dense area, and the high death toll, however, casts serious doubt whether Israel complied with its obligations.
 
So, just looking at those numbers, and what's coming from Johns Hopkins here, which is fairly independent, just looking at the facts. It does suggest, at least, there is a case for Israel when it comes to the civilian death toll, right? 
 
ROTH: That's absolutely the case. In other words, yes, Hamas committed war crimes. Slaughtering civilians and abducting civilians, throwing rockets into indiscriminately into civilian areas, those are all war crimes. But international humanitarian law make sure that war crimes by one side to do not enable or justify war crimes by the other. 
 
There is an independent obligation. It's not a reciprocal obligation. So, now the Israeli government love to say, well, what Hamas did using human shields. Yes, of course, that sometimes happens. But that does not relieve the Israeli government, in the case of each and every attack, to ensure that they are not firing indiscriminately into civilian area, or that if even if there is a military target somewhere in there, that they are not having a disproportionate impact on civilians. 
 
Just given the numbers of this stage, 7,700 dead, or into the Gazan health ministry, entire neighborhoods flattened. I think there's really strong reason to doubt that the Israeli government is complying with this obligations under international humanitarian law. And what Hamas did is not justified what Israel is now doing. 
 
VAUSE: One reason why Israel has rejected a ceasefire, they, say it will only help Hamas. And that's true, it will help Hamas. But they are also, as you mentioned, 2 million Palestinians living in Gaza. It seems they would also benefit as well. If nothing else, what a cease- fire at this point reaffirm Israeli statements to interfere with a war in Hamas and not a war in Gaza. 
 
ROTH: Precisely. First of all, the growing climber is not actually for a cease-fire to end the fighting altogether, but rather for a humanitarian pause, to enable more aid to come in. Not drips and drabs that so far Israelis have allowed. 
 
But, then more important to allow that aid to be distributed to people in need. And, you know, that's what the Israeli government is resisting. I mean, why did they impose this siege on Gaza to begin with? Why are they cutting off water? Why are they cutting off food? I mean, yes, Hamas benefits tangentially to some extent. But there is a huge civilian population there. What it really looks like is it as if the Israeli government is really not distinguishing between Hamas, and ordinary Palestinian civilians. 
 
You've even seen some people say, oh, these are all just a bunch of human animals. Like the defense minister said in Israel. Or oh, they voted for Hamas 16 years ago, they deserve what they're getting. That is just wrong. 
 
Humanitarian law doesn't look at your political views. It doesn't look to how you voted. It just looks to whether, you know, did you join an armed force, carrying a arms, otherwise you are protected civilian in this effort to punish all of Gaza because of what Hamas is doing, not only to Israel, but frankly it's military dictatorship even within Gaza, that is wrong. That is a collective punishment of the Palestinian civilian population. That's a war crime. 
 
VAUSE: Kenneth, thank you. Kenneth Roth there, former executive director of Human Rights Watch. We appreciate your time, sir. Thank you. 
 
ROTH: Thank you. 
 
VAUSE: Coming up, our continued coverage of Israel's war with Hamas. We'll go live to southern Israel for the very latest on the Israeli offensive there -- more airstrikes, more artillery fire from Israel into Gaza. 
 
Also, a chorus condemnation, strong regional reaction to Israel's ground offensive -- that's coming, up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:31:16]
 
VAUSE: Welcome back, everyone. Thirty minutes past the hour. 
 
And at this hour, Gaza remains under siege and under fire, as Israel pushes ahead with the second phase of its war with Hamas. 
 
Ground operations are expanding, and airstrikes have intensified. Internet and phone services are largely cut in the Palestinian enclave. Fuel and electricity remain in short supply. The World Health Organization says health workers, patients, and civilians, spent last night in darkness and fear. 
 
But Israel says this is a fight for its very survival. And is vowed to destroy Hamas after the militants attacked Israel, killing 1,400 civilians in Israel and taking hostages on October 7th. 
 
CNN's Nic Robertson live for us in the southern Israeli city of Sderot. He has been tracing the very latest IDF ramped up operations across the border of Gaza. 
 
So, just in the last few hours, what has been the sight of you, you've seen there from Sderot as you look towards Gaza? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yeah, I am seeing the big orange and red flashes in the sky. The illuminations just seemed to sort of light up the whole horizon. Hearing the impacts of the missiles, hearing the jets fly away, accelerate away after they drop their munitions, but artillery fire.
 
We've heard helicopter gunships, very likely Apache helicopter gunships firing. We've heard what sound like troops in contact, firing their machine guns on the ground. Tank fire from here. 
 
There's a lot of activity tonight, more than last night. And to try to get some sense of what the IDF are doing along the border here, what the actual incursion port of all of this looks like, we went to a vantage point today to get a look at the IDF, and the troops maneuvering. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Racing along the border with Gaza. Israeli Merkava tanks, and incursion force on the move. Part of the IDF's intensification of operations preparing the way for an expected to large scale ground offensive. That dirt track down there where you can see the dust coming up, that's the road that runs along the Israeli side of the border. We've been able to hear intense gunfire from the IDF, shooting into Gaza. Tank rounds as well, fired from there, right into Gaza. 
 
Machine gun fire or ups as unseen soldiers battle for control of the fields that separate the border from the crowded Gaza towns. Inside the towns, smoke rising from intensified strikes. Where the IDF says Hamas hides in underground tunnels, and among civilians. 
 
Israel's defense minister announcing a new phase in the war. 
 
YOAV GALLANT, ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER (through translator): Last night, the ground in Gaza shook. We attacked terror operatives of all ranks in every location. 
 
ROBERTSON: The tempo of battle rising noticeably Friday night. Power, phone, and internet services cut in the north of the densely populated Palestinian enclave. Hospitals, already short of medicine, water, and other essentials, times appearing overrun with casualties. On Saturday, an apparent desperation, with deteriorating humanitarian
 
 conditions, some Gazans stormed the U.N. compound, looting food. 
 <br>[20:35:06]
 
PHILIPPE LAZZARINI, UNRWA COMMISSIONER-GENERAL: People in Gaza are dying. They are not only dying from bombs and strikes, soon, many more will die from the consequences of siege imposed on the Gaza Strip. 
 
ROBERTSON: With a nightfall Saturday, the IDF keeping up the pressure on Hamas, the pace of strikes, unrelenting. As the ground offensive continues. 
 
Israel's prime minister, promising more to come. 
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): The war in Gaza will be long. We are going to fight in the air, ground, and sea. We are going to fight and win. 
 
ROBERTSON: So far, only a tiny fraction of Israel's fighting force, of more than half a million troops, have crossed the battle lines into Gaza. What comes next could ignite tensions way beyond Israel's borders. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): There's a real sense that if the IDF goes in, in big numbers, as it says it will, into Gaza, that Hezbollah, to the north, backed by Iran, could really ramp up attacks that they haven't been doing so far, really ramp them up into Israel. 
 
But so that is sort of what makes how this incursion plays out so important right now, John. 
 
VAUSE: Nic, thank you. Nic Robertson live for us in southern Israel with the very latest. Thanks, Nic.
 
As Israel continues its ground operations into Gaza, Saudi Arabia and Egypt are warning of security destabilization across the region Saudi government says the military escalation exposes Palestinians to more dangers. While the Egyptian government urges Israel to facilitate a secure access of humanitarian aid to Gaza. 
 
CNN's Melissa Bell, live for us with the very latest of this in Cairo. 
 
And Egypt is kind of a unique position here. It's an ally of these rallies. But also has close ties to Gaza as well. 
 
So, they are now calling for this, essentially, for each region to be mindful of each his own sovereignty. 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I think there's been a great deal of anger expressed today, specifically as a result of this ground operation underway last night, John, even as the UNGA, United Nations General Assembly, have backed Jordan's resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire, because all of these regional players are keenly aware, now, of what the conditions are like inside, and of the desperate need for humanitarian ceasefire that they were calling for. 
 
The fact that it should've gone the other way, this is what Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader in the West Bank had to say today, calling for an hour of league summit here in Cairo, who said, look, even as the world had been urging, calling, hoping, praying for the ceasefire, Israel chose to go harder with more bombing and more destruction. 
 
I think that anger is something you are likely to hear a lot more about in the coming days. There have been watching leaders and officials today, and then there have been the streets, with demonstrations not just in Istanbul, but in European cities like London, and Rome as well. Everyone is really looking to see how much worse things get. 
 
You just heard Nick there speak about the situation on the ground. Remember that even before that ground operation got underway on Friday, there had been so little aid delivered into Gaza. That there was a question of course of hunger, thirst, medical supplies lacking, fuel, not having entered the enclave at all since this conflict began. What the U.N. agencies are saying now is that they only have a few more days of operability left before they have to leave the Gaza Strip. 
 
Now, at the heart of everyone's attention, of course, is also what's happening over at the Rafah crossing in the southern part of Gaza into Egypt. For now, authorities have not organized things. In other words, it's a very complicated situation. It is the acquiescence of the Israelis' agreement between Hamas and Egyptians that this particular point can be opened. This crossing can be opened. 
 
Things have not been organized in a way that the U.N. has been calling for so that more aid trucks can get in. But of course, crucially, what's also happened is that the civilian simply can't get out. Egypt has been very clear, neither does it want refugees in the Sinai, nor the forcible displacement of the entire inhabitants -- entire population of the Gaza Strip -- John.
 
VAUSE: Melissa, thank you. Melissa Bell live for us there in Cairo, with the regional, global -- or regional, I should say. Thank you, Melissa. 
 
Well, the U.S. president says further action will be taking as needed to defend U.S. forces in the Middle East. According to the Pentagon, U.S. airstrikes hit Iran-backed targets in Syria, Friday, in response to attacks by those groups on U.S. forces. 
 <br>[20:40:04]
 
Bianna Golodryga spoke to Iran's foreign minister. Hossein Amir- Abdollahian told -- denied his country's involvement in those attacks on U.S. forces. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: I want to talk about your time in New York, because you spoke at the U.N. And I want to quote what you said for our viewers. You said, I say frankly to the American statesmen, we do not welcome expansion of the war in the region. But I warm, if genocide in Gaza continues, they will not be spared from this fire. 
 
Is that a threat? Is Iran prepared, really, to go to war against the United States? 
 
HOSSEIN AMIR-ABDOLLAHIAN, IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): We don't want this war to spread out.
 
GOLODRYGA: But with all due respect, your actions don't seem to match your words. You say that you are playing a constructive role in helping peace and security, but according to the Pentagon, groups affiliated with Iran have targeted U.S. forces or bases in the region at least 15 times now since October 17th, injuring at least 20 U.S. military personnel. A U.S. carrier strike group shot down 15 drones, four cruise missiles fired by Iran-backed Houthi militants in Yemen, that was aimed towards Israel. 
 
President Biden said this yesterday, he said -- 
 
AMIR-ABDOLLAHIAN (through translator): Any attack that is carried out in the region, or if they are targeted by any group, you know, linking it to Islamic Republic of Iran, without offering any piece of proof is totally wrong. You see, two weeks ago, I was in Iraq, also in Syria and Lebanon. I could see up close and personal that the people of the region, they were very sensitive about the developments in the Palestine. They were angry. 
 
They are not receiving orders from us. They act according to their own interest. Also, what happened? What was carried out with Hamas? It was totally Palestinian. They decided to take responsibility for that. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: When we come back here on CNN, as Israeli ground offensive operations in Gaza ramp up, the prime minister says every effort will be made to recover hostages being held by Hamas. But what about the relatives of those being held in Gaza? What do they think? 
 
We'll hear from one of them in a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back. 
 
Family members of hostages being held by Hamas are becoming increasingly anxious by Israel's expanding offensive. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu met with some of the relatives of the hostages on Saturday. He later promised to do everything to bring them home. 
 <br>[20:45:02]
 
Some relatives then gathered in Tel Aviv to express frustration as well as anxiety. They held photos of their loved ones and lit candles, joining together to call for the safe return of all of those who are still missing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MALKI SHEM-TOV, FATHER OF HOSTAGE TAKEN BY HAMAS: We are very worried about an hour dearest. That they are out there, and we don't know if the whole military operation it takes all these hostages under consideration, that nobody will be injured. So we were very clear about all the hostages will come back home, with any kind of negotiation, that is done or will be done, that we want all back, and we don't care what we give for that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Family members also wrote messages on a long banner, and spoke about their sense of urgency. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHAI WENKERT, FATHER OF HOSTAGE TAKEN BY HAMAS: No, I can't wait anymore. I need my son back home. And I need the mission. It was happening and their prime minister, their defense minister, on their shift, they have to solve it. Solve it now. We have to do a lot of pressure, probably on Qatar. 
 
This is the main goal. We need to do, and we need answers, now. Not today, now. I'm telling you, we can't wait anymore. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The Israeli defense minister echoed the words of the prime minister, saying everything that can be done will be done to get the hostages released. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GALLANT (through translator): We are making any effort in order to return of the abductees to us, to our country. It is very complicated effort. It's dealing with reality that we didn't know in the past. We are ready to do anything that is possible. This is not a secondary mission. This is a national priority. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Moshe Lavi's brother-in-law was kidnapped by Hamas on October 7th, currently being held somewhere in Gaza. 
 
Moshe, thank you for being with us during what must be an incredibly difficult time for you and your family. 
 
MOSHE LAVI, BROTHER-IN-LAW HELD BY HAMAS: Yes, thank you so much for inviting me to speak with you tonight. 
 
VAUSE: I'd like to get your thoughts when you heard that Israel is expanding ground operations, the airstrikes are intensifying, and this is essentially a new phase of this war with Hamas, which seems a lot more intense, a lot more deadly than we've seen already. What were your initial thoughts when you heard about this and your concerns for your brother in law? 
 
LAVI: Yes, our primary objective, and what we think about 24/7, in the case of my family, Omri Miran was kidnapped and, of course, the return of all the hostages who are numbered at 230 at the moment. We are very concerned and worried, but I'm not a military strategist, and I'm not a decision-maker, I want to believe that what was communicated to us earlier today was by the prime minister, the minister of defense, is that it is indeed a primary objective of the state of the Israel to ensure that the hostages are returned safely to their loved ones. 
 
There is obviously an issue of trust between the Israeli population and the leadership because of what happened on that tragic day on October 7th. But I want to believe that the leadership is doing what is expected of them to ensure the hostages are returned, either through negotiations or through other means. 
 
VAUSE: We've heard the defense minister say that any kind of ground offensive, any kind of expanded ground operation will make it actually easier to win the release of those being held in Gaza. What are your thoughts on that? 
 
LAVI: As I said, I'm not a military strategist. I don't know exactly what are the plans. But I trust that the military and the commanders, and the political leadership are taking the safety and the well-being of the hostages into account. 
 
I think it is paramount that the issue of the hostages will be resolved before any further escalation, in the conflict. But, again, I'm not a decision-maker. But I do know that the hostages are dear to the people of Israel, dear to many people around the world, dear to communities around the world, many other peace-loving people around the world. 
 
And I want to believe that the Israelis will take that into account when they make their calculated risks. 
 <br>[20:50:05]
 
VAUSE: It was about a week ago I it was about a week ago I think when word, came that Hamas had freed two American women, and another day or so after that, two Israeli women were released as well. I guess at that point, at that time, there must have been reason, and good reason to hold some hope? 
 
LAVI: Yes, it definitely gave us a lot of hope that, eventually, Omri and many others will return to us. But at the same time, we are realistic. We know that we are dealing with an irrational actor, like Hamas. We know that not all the hostages are held by the Hamas, but by other accomplices, like the Palestinian Islamic jihad. 
 
So I think when dealing with irrational actors, or who took hostage the entire population of Gaza, in my opinion, by going through that massacre on October 7th. It is hard to really hope for the best. 
 
War is a dreadful thing, and it's -- and seeing what is going on the ground now, is definitely worrying us. But we have to keep believing that our loved ones will turn up. 
 
VAUSE: Can you explain to people who, obviously have not been any through everything anything like you're going to right now, what is this emotional rollercoaster? Like the torment, and emotions, and the ups and downs must just be absolutely excruciating, at times. 
 
LAVI: Yes, I think you described it quite accurately. From that day, October 7th, I myself am based in New York, I just moved here six weeks, ago I was with my family on September 7th last. So, one month before the attack. 
 
And that day, that's when most of the rollercoaster started, from worry sick about my friends and family back home, knowing that we lost contact with my sister, and my brother in law, Omri, and our two baby nieces. -- after about eight hours of my sister and baby nieces were, safe and were rescued. And knowing that Omri was taken hostage. 
 
Since then, it's been, it's been probably the most difficult time I've had, and I mean, when the most difficult times for our family, the trauma that will stay with us for the rest of our lives. But, we are shake every day by our efforts, and they give us strength, by the ability to speak to the, public and give voice for Murray and many others, who were taken, and when we are alone, and we are with our thoughts. When you are alone with your thoughts, you tend I think, the average person, the average human being tends to think of the worst at times. 
 
So it is difficult, but I have to keep being hopeful, that Omri will return, and I will be reunited with my sister, and with my two baby nieces. Otherwise, I wouldn't be here with, you speaking with you. 
 
So, I want to send a message of hope, and a call for anybody involved, that they have to keep the hostages at the top of their agenda, whether they are policymakers in Israel, or policymakers worldwide. It will be irresponsible, and for anybody not putting that at the top of their agenda. 
 
VAUSE: Moshe, from your lips to God's ears, thank you, sir. I wish you all the very best. 
 
LAVI:  Thank you so much. Have a good evening. 
 
VAUSE: Coming up, new details about the gunman at this week's mass shooting in Maine. All of that, after a short break. You're watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:55:34]
 
VAUSE: Former Vice President Mike Pence has become the first high- profile candidate to exit at the U.S. presidential race. Pence announced during a speech Saturday that he suspending his campaign for the Republican nomination. His decision comes amid consistently weak poll numbers, and also some issues with money. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE PENCE, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: Now I am leaving this campaign. But let me promise you, I will never leave the fight for conservative values. And I will never stop fighting to elect principled Republican leaders to every office in the land. So help me God. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Before that announcement, Pence had still not qualified for the next presidential debate in early November. His campaign recently reported it was $600,000 in debt. 
 
Well, there are new details about the suspect behind this week's shooting rampage, which left 18 people dead in Maine. The body of Robert Card was discovered Friday night. Police say he died from an apparent self inflicted gunshot wound. He also left a note behind, indicating that he did not expect to be found alive. 
 
With that, thank you for watching this hour of CNN NEWSROOM. Please stay with us. I'm John Vause. I will be back after a very short break, with more of our ongoing coverage of Israel's war with Hamas. You're watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)