Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Kremlin Critic Faces 25 Years In Prison For Condemning War In Ukraine; Nearly 100 Killed As Rival Generals Battle For Control In Sudan; At Least 1 Death Among Nearly 100 Cases Of Rare Fungal Infection; L.A. DA's Office Reviewing Sex Assault Case Against Actor Armie Hammer. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired April 17, 2023 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:33:16]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: A look now at some of the headlines were watching this hour. 
 
The Dadeville, Alabama, community is grieving and desperate for answers after a shooting at a Sweet 16 birthday party left four people dead and 28 injured. 
 
Those killed were between the ages of 17 to 23. And all were from that tight-knit community. The shooter is still at large, but police say they now have strong leads on the suspect. 
 
And this just into CNN. The 16-year-old who was shot in the head by a Kansas City homeowner, after ringing the wrong doorbell, is out of the hospital. "The Kansas City Star" says that Ralph Yarl is recovering at home and making good progress. 
 
A CNN review of property records indicates that the homeowner is a white man in his eighties. He was taken into custody and released after a 24-hour hold period, spending fewer than two hours with officers pending further investigation. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: A critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin and his war on Ukraine has been sentenced to 25 years in prison for speaking out against the war and Putin's regime. 
 
Vladimir Kara-Murza was initially detained one year ago, hours after an interview with CNN in which he criticized Russian President Vladimir Putin's "regime of murderers," as he put it. 
 
Because of that criticism, he will now spend the next quarter of a century in a Russian prison. 
 
That's a decision being condemned by the international community as draconian and politically motivated. 
 
CNN's Matthew Chance is joining us on this story. 
 
So, Matthew, Kara-Murza's lawyers have made it clear they're going to appeal this sentence. What -- what will then happen? 
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, that they're going to appeal it. 
 
But frankly, given the situation in Russia right now, with the crackdown that's been going on against freedom of speech and against dissent of the kind that Vladimir Kara-Murza represented, it is incredibly unlikely that appeal is going to be successful. 
 <br>[14:35:11]
 
And we're looking at a situation where this leading opposition figure in the country is now facing the prospect of a very lengthy prison term, indeed. Twenty-five years is the maximum sentence that was handed down to Vladimir Kara-Murza. 
 
He was charged with a range of offenses, from resisting arrest to the worst charge, or the most serious charge in the catalog of the book that was thrown at him, which is treason against the Russian state. 
 
And afterwards -- he wasn't allowed to speak afterwards. But his lawyer came outside the court. And she said that he had said the following phrases: 
 
"My self-esteem rose after I heard that the prison sentence was 25 years. I realized," Kara-Murza said, "that I did everything right. And this is the highest score you can get as a citizen, as a patriot, and as a politician." 
 
So Vladimir Kara-Murza characteristically defiant as he faces that incredibly long sentence in a Russian penal colony, Brianna.
 
KEILAR: But what a price to pay. 
 
Matthew Chance, thank you for that report. 
 
Jim? 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Well, there are growing concerns right now that Sudan may dissolve into a civil war. Rival military generals fighting for control of that country. 
 
A short time ago, we learned that Sudan's army chief dissolved his opponent's paramilitary group, labeled it now a rebel group. The army chief and the head of the paramilitary group are at the center of this conflict. 
 
It's growing deadlier by the day. Nearly 100 people have been killed so far in clashes over the last three days. Smoke and flames seen near the presidential palace, the army headquarters, also the airport. 
 
CNN's Nima Elbagir has been following the developments. 
 
Listen, this is descending, and it seems, into a civil war. But you also have this dynamic of Russia backing one side, the U.S. and the West, to some degree, the other. Where is this going from here? NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT:
 
 Well, Commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the head of the paramilitary forces, was incredibly well equipped and trained and resourced by Russia. 
 
And that's really what's tipping the balance, that even that -- even though his men are outnumbered by the Sudanese army, that equipment, that support, that technical technological know-how clearly has paid off for him. 
 
We were able to speak to General Burhan, the head of Sudan's military, from inside army headquarters. 
 
And it was just as the -- as the fighting was beginning to intensify yet again. I could hear in the background of that call an explosion that sounded like a bomb. I could hear very heavy shelling. 
 
It's clear that, for both sides, Jim, this is completely existential.
 
That both sides know that either Sudan's military, which is an organized force, survives and takes dominance, or a paramilitary force with an appalling human rights record, significantly supported by Russia, takes over in such a pivotal country in Africa. 
 
SCUITTO: I listen to it. It's another proxy war but between the superpowers here.
 
Now, in addition to covering Sudan so capably for so many years, you have family there. 
 
Just personally, how is -- how is your family doing? Are they safe, the people in the capital and beyond? 
 
ELBAGIR: You're really kind to ask. You know, my parents are sheltering in a place, like almost everyone else pretty much in the capital. 
 
They just spoke to my mother. The running water has been cut off. They have some food left, but -- but it's unclear when shops will reopen. It's unclear when they will be able to access it. 
 
And they live four streets away from an army garrison. Every time I call home -- and I'm calling a lot at the moment -- I can hear that telltale thud horrifyingly and terrifyingly close. And you know, it's difficult. 
 
But I am aware that they are luckier than most other people. We've spoken to, literally they are speaking to us, Jim, on their phones, sheltering on the ground with small children scared to even stand upright inside their homes. 
 
It is -- it is awful, and there is no end in sight, sadly. 
 
SCUITTO: Listen, and it's personal for you. We wish your family safety. We wish them the best. And we know you're going to stay on top of the news. Nima Elbagir, thanks so much. 
 
Boris, over to you. 
 
SANCHEZ: There are now nearly 100 confirmed or probable cases of a rare fungal infection in two counties in Michigan. We're going to tell you how people are getting it and whether it can spread person to person. 
 <br>[14:39:42]
 
And the Los Angeles district attorney's office says they are investigating allegations of sexual assault against actor, Armie Hammer. Those stories and more just ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: Now to some of the other headlines that we are watching this hour. 
 
Seven U.S. troops have been taken to a local hospital after a car crash in Germany. An MRAP and an air defense Striker were convoying back to Grafenwoehr training area near Nuremberg when they collided on the A-6 autobahn. 
 
They were all transported to a local hospital. One airlifted there. This incident currently under investigation.
 
And Elon Musk's latest SpaceX mission scrubbed with just 10 minutes left on the countdown clock. Engineers said they would not be able to resolve a pressurization issue in time.
 
The most powerful rocket ever constructed. The goal is to complete a full orbit of earth. This team will have to wait at least 48 hours to try again.
 
And NFL Quarterback Jalen Hurts is now the highest paid player in league history. The Philadelphia Eagles have just announced a five- year extension of the star's contract. 
 <br>[14:45:08]
 
And get this -- it's reportedly worth $255 million. Keep in mind, he's just 24 years old. So that is $10.6 million for every year that he's been alive -- Jim?
 
SCUITTO: $50 million bucks a year, not bad. 
 
Well, another story we're following, new developments emerging in a deadly outbreak of a rare fungal infection linked to a paper mill. This in Michigan.
 
Officials say one person has died. Nearly 100 confirmed or probable cases have been identified in the states' Delta and Menominee Counties.
 
CNN's Jacqueline Howard, she joins us now. 
 
Jacqueline, how are health officials explaining what causes this exactly a paper mill? 
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: Well, that's right, Jim. Health officials are still actually investigating what is the exact cause because this outbreak of the fungal disease -- it's called Blastomycosis. 
 
It has been linked to a paper mill in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. But the exact cause as to what's exposing people to the fungus that caused Blastomycosis, that's what health authorities are looking into. 
 
Now what we do know, among the 97 probable or confirmed cases, there have been 12 hospitalizations. Sadly, one person has died. 
 
And just this morning, the head of operations at that paper mill in Michigan spoke with our colleague, Sara Sidner, about this ongoing investigation. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIAN PETERSON, OPERATIONS VP &amp; MANAGER, BILLERUD ESCANABA MILL: Since we were first told of this from county health on March 3rd, we put a full court press on trying to understand it. 
 
And as you said, Blastomycosis is in wet soil. It's our understanding from talking to the CDC, there's no real other studies even close to this in industry. So we've invited a variety of experts who are working towards the root cause. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOWARD: So we heard there that the fungus behind Blastomycosis, it is found in moist soil. But also, Jim, decomposing leaves, decomposing wood.
 
The CDC, I'm sure, it's looking into those elements as this part of the investigation continues.
 
And we know many of the people infected are employees, contractors or visitors to that paper mill -- Jim? 
 
SCUITTO: OK, next question, then, is there a treatment? One person has died. Is there something that can take care of the others who have been exposed to this now? 
 
HOWARD: Absolutely. The good thing is this is treated with antifungal medications. But, Jim, depending on the severity of illness, the course of treatment can last for up to six months or a year. So this is serious.
 
And symptoms include cough -- sometimes people might cough up blood -- chest pain, fever, muscle aches and joint pain. 
 
Yes, so it is a serious illness that, again, health authorities, I'm sure, are looking into the different possible causes. And hopefully, we'll hear more soon about this investigation -- Jim? 
 
SCUITTO: No question. Hope to -- hope they get better soon. 
 
Jacqueline Howard, thanks so much for covering this.
 
Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Jim, I know you were looking forward to this. Still to come, Netflix botching its live reunion of "Love Is Blind." The streaming giant's rivals wasted no time popping the popcorn. Details straight ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:52:28]
 
SANCHEZ: The Los Angeles district attorney's office has confirmed to CNN that it is reviewing a sexual assault case against actor, Armie Hammer. The star was accused of rape and mental abuse in 2017 by a woman he used to date. 
 
CNN's Chloe Melas is here reporting on this story.
 
And, Chloe, Hammer had been under investigation by the LAPD since 2021. What's the latest on the case? And how is the actor responding? 
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Boris, so it's been two years. And the district attorney telling CNN, out of Los Angeles, that they are reviewing what the police have sent them. 
 
And this is a case that people have been watching all over the world. It made headlines a few years ago when a woman named Effie, who ran a social media account called "House of Effie" came forward with allegations of sexual assault by Hammer.
 
And she did a press conference with her attorney at the time, Gloria Allred. And she said that he had allegedly raped her during an incident in 2017, that they met on Facebook, and they had this romance but that it turned violent.
 
So she's actually speaking out to CNN in a statement that we actually have just obtained today.
 
She says, quote, "I am severely traumatized by Armie. I feel disgusted that he is not taking accountability for what he did to me and that he's resorted to attacking me. Armie has no remorse. He continues to cause pain. And I don't think he has changed at all."
 
Now look, we have reached out to Armie Hammer's legal team for comment. They maintain, Boris, that every act of -- anything in a sexual nature was always consensual. 
 
Now he did give an interview to "Air Mail," with Graydon Carter, back in February. And he said, look, you know, I wasn't perfect and I dated a lot of women and, you know, there were a lot of things going on but rape was not one of them. So this is going to be interesting to see, what does the D.A. decided
 
 to do? It's been two years. We've been watching this. 
 
Even our parent company, one of our channels, Discovery, did the "House of Hammer" docuseries that everybody was talking about a few months ago. 
 
So are they going to bring charges? And could this -- if they do, would it then go to trial? 
 
SANCHEZ: Some big questions. 
 
Chloe Melas, please keep us updated with the very latest. Thank you so much. 
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
Jim?
 
SCUITTO: All right, there are new details on the shooting of a black teen who went to the wrong address. That's all he did. Ahead, what we're learning now about the teens condition and the man who is accused of shooting him. 
 
We'll have more on all of this when CNN NEWS CENTRAL continues. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: That Missouri teen shot in the head for going to the wrong address reportedly has just been released from the hospital. We have new information into CNN about the neighbor who called 911 and a homeowner who pulled the trigger. 
 <br>[14:59:57]
 
SCUITTO: A mass shooting at a birthday party. The victims, dozens of teenagers in a small Alabama town. And a suspect still on the loose. Four killed, 28 wounded. Police say they've got strong leads but no arrests so far.