Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Virginia Judge Rules Federal Ban On Handgun Sales For 18 To 20- Year-Olds Unconstitutional; 1 of 2 Inmates Who Escaped Philadelphia Prison Recaptured; US Searching For High-Value Russians For Prisoner Swap; FDA Advisers To Vote Gene Therapy For Rare Muscular Disorder. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired May 12, 2023 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:30:00]
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: In addition, 18 to 20 year olds can already buy a handgun in Virginia, but only through private and unregulated dealers, which was an interesting fact in all of this. Supporters of this ruling from the judge say that the decision makes handgun sales safer and more regulated. Critics will argue this move now makes it easier for younger people to get their hands on guns. Let's talk about this.
 
Joining me right now is Jennifer Mascia. She's a CNN contributor and also a writer for The Trace, a nonprofit focused on covering gun violence in America. Jennifer, this ruling from this judge seems to go against something of a trend that we've been seeing recently in other states, which is raising the age for gun purchases. What do you make of this ruling in Virginia and what do you think the impact is?
 
JENNIFER MASCIA, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Well, this is just the latest in a like a rash of rulings that have overturned foundational gun laws across the country. And this is happening because of a decision last summer. The New York State Rifle and Pistol Association versus Bruen, that seems to have opened the floodgates for a number of legal challenges.
 
The justices ruled that in order for gun law to be constitutional, it has to have an analogue in American history. So basically, it was a gun law 150 years ago, it can stand today. And so that's put a number of laws into question. It's a free for all with gun rights groups and lobbyist groups challenging bans on possession by people who are subject to restraining orders.
 
A 54-year-old prohibition on buying guns while under indictment for certain crimes fell in Oklahoma and Indiana, a 32-year-old law barring the removal of serial numbers from guns. I mean, these are rights or these are laws that a lot of Americans have taken for granted. But they're all coming up for question. Much like last year, the abortion decision, it kind of opened the floodgates for a number of challenges to state laws. That's kind of what we're seeing now with guns.
 
BOLDUAN: That's an interesting kind of like relation to this. Can you give us a sense of how much gun violence is linked to the age group that we're talking about in this one decision, right? 18 to 20 years old.
 
MASCIA: The preponderance of gun violence is perpetrated by younger people, the age at which most people, the median age, for which most people commit homicide is 18, according to the Justice Department. So a lot of gun violence victims also fall within this range. The rationale is that, you know, gun ownership is a responsibility that maybe younger people whose minds have been fully developed, are not mature enough to handle.
 
Of course, on the other hand, gun rights advocates and lobbying groups argue that if you can serve in the military, you can also -- you should be able to carry a handgun. Of course, you know, in the military, your gun handling is closely watched, you are trained. So it's quite different than teenagers carrying guns in public concealed guns in public.
 
And the danger is that, you know, some 18-year-olds are high school students. So the danger is that there might be more guns in high schools now.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. And let's in -- this, obviously, as you're pointing to, this, very likely, this move means that it will likely then and back at the Supreme Court where the Supreme Court will have to ultimately decide and essentially every aspect of gun regulation when it comes to it and the constitutionality. It's good to see you, Jennifer. Thank you. Sara?
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: US marshals captured one of the inmates who escaped a Philadelphia correctional facility through a hole cut at a fence. But still on the loose and considered armed and dangerous, the second prisoner who escaped with him who was linked to four murders, officials say. The two men escaped on Sunday, but nearly a full day passed before correctional officers even realized they were actually missing.
 
CNN's Danny Freeman joins us now with more on the manhunt. So, Danny, they captured one of the escapees, but there was a second arrest during all of this what happened?
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Sara. Two prisoners escaped earlier this week. We have two arrests but still one suspect on the loose. Now we'll get to that second arrest. It actually is a suspected accomplice in a moment. But I want to talk about last night's arrest of one of the two inmates who allegedly escaped from a prison back on Sunday night.
 
We're talking about 24-year-old Nasir Grant. He was apprehended at 10:30 PM by US marshals. But I want to tell you exactly how this arrest basically went down. The US marshals said that they were serving area in Philadelphia where they believed Grant would be and would be located at the time. Well then we saw a man walk out of a home in Philly, dressed in, I quote, full female Muslim garb with a head covering.
 
Well, the marshals then follow this man to a parking lot. They confronted him and then arrested him thankfully without incident but they said that grant was very surprised when the marshals approached him and then confronted him at that time late last night.
 
Now also, as you mentioned, earlier this week there was another arrest a 21-year-old woman. Her name is Xianni Stalling. She was arrested and accused of aiding these two men to escape prison back on Sunday evening. But at this point, we still don't have a tremendous amount of details as to how she may have helped in that prison break.
 <br>[09:35:10]
 
She faces four felonies including escape and her defense attorneys at this time, they are not commenting to CNN.
 
Now meanwhile, Ameen Hurst, that's the 18-year-old. That's the other inmate who did escape. He, at this point, is still on the loose and he is considered armed and dangerous by law enforcement because he is the one who has been accused of for homicides that got him into prison in the first place. And I'll just say, the marshals, they're still looking for him at this point.
 
They've told us that they are exhausted after a long week of trying to find these two guys. But the marshals did say that now that they have one of those inmates in custody, they can focus all of their attention on getting that last inmate back behind bars. So we'll keep you updated on this, Sara.
 
SIDNER: Wow. That was quite a journey there. Danny Freeman, thank you so much for that. John?
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: Sara, a new strategy to secure the release of Americans wrongly held prisoner and Russia including reporter Evan Gershkovich. We have CNN exclusive reporting. And the country facing a near record number of drug shortages, this could have a major impact on cancer treatments
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SIDNER: New this morning, Pakistan's former Prime Minister Imran Khan has been released on bail after appearing of the country's Supreme Court under heavy security. Yesterday, the High Court ruled Khan's dramatic arrest by paramilitary troops on corruption charges was unlawful. Now, Khan is accusing Pakistan's army chief of being the mastermind behind his arrest. Several members of his party have also been accused of inciting arson and violent protests, and they too were arrested.
 
Khan is first known for his career in cricket became one of Pakistan's most popular prime ministers.
 
Turkey's strongman president, who has been in power for 20 years now, faces a tight election on Sunday. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has come under heavy criticism after the earthquake three months ago that killed tens of thousands of people and displaced millions more in Turkey. Many blamed the deadly building collapses on improper construction due to corruption.
 
Erdogan is also a key figure, however, in NATO and the main holdout in keeping Sweden from joining the alliance. So if he's ousted, it could have a major global impact.
 
New accusations this morning that South Africa is helping Russia in its war on Ukraine. The US ambassador of South Africa says his team observed this sanction Russian ship called the LADY R docked at a naval base on South Africa's Western Cape last December, and that weapons and ammo were loaded onto it. The ambassador says he would bet his life on the accuracy of the allegations.
 
The South African government has now summoned the ambassador over his remarks. It was -- has routinely abstained from votes condemning Russia at the UN. John?
 
BERMAN: So this morning, exclusive new reporting that the Biden administration is looking to third party nations to help secure the release of two Americans wrongfully detained in Russia, Evan Gershkovich and Paul Whelan. Sources tell CNN, the US is turning to its allies because it does not currently have any high level Russian spies to use as bargaining chips.
 
Just over a year ago, former US Marine Trevor Reed was released in exchange for convicted Russian drug smuggler Konstantin Yaroshenko. And months later in December, WNBA star Brittney Griner was swapped for Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout. CNN's Kylie Atwood is at the State Department this morning. Kylie, this interesting -- it is a new strategy at least for last few months to try to go to other countries. Explain what's going on here.
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, that's right. This was a global strategy. And when you look at what US officials are doing here, their outreach extends to countries including Brazil, Norway, Germany, a former Soviet bloc country as well. These are countries that have recently arrested Russian spies. What they're trying to do is see if any of these countries would actually be interested in working with the US to offer up something on the table for Russia, as they try and secure a deal that can get out Paul Whelan and Evan Gershkovich, that Wall Street Journal reporter who was arrested in Russia on charges of espionage about six weeks ago.
 
And they're also going, however, John, to countries, US allies who don't actually have Russian spies in their custody. And the effort here is to try and see if those countries can offer anything up to the United States that could give them more leverage at the negotiating table, essentially to try and gin up a creative offer to the Russians.
 
This is a global effort ongoing right now. We don't know the exact status of how these conversations with these countries are going. We do know that last year, the US did go to Germany because Vadim Krasikov, he is a Russian intelligence officer who is in German custody right now on charges of murder. They went to him because the Russians actually said that he was someone that they wanted as part of a prisoner swap.
 
Now that didn't go anywhere. So it doesn't look like Germany is actually playing ball there. But we'll have to see if these other countries engage in a substantive way that allows the United States to offer something on the table to the Russians. And we should note that this strategy has taken root really late last year and has increased in its intensity over the last few months and weeks, of course, After Gershkovich was arrested. But really it started when the United States was able to get out Brittney Griner but they weren't able to get out Paul Whelan as part of that prisoner swap late last year. The Russians considering both Gershkovich and Paul Whelan to be spies.
 
BERMAN: So now this expanding effort very interesting. Kylie, I will keep us posted. Thank you. Kate?
 <br>[09:45:06]
 
BOLDUAN: Right now is one of the worst times in decades to buy a car. What's driving this surge, I truly did not mean that fun now that I see what I've done. The surge in prices for new and used cars, and when are these prices going to come back down to earth. And FDA advisors, they're expected to vote today on an experimental gene therapy treatment that could be a game changer for many children, children with muscular dystrophy.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN: So if you are in the market for a new car, prepare yourself. Despite improving supply chains and signs inflation is easing, the data coming out from the Bureau of Labor Statistics not promising at this very moment, showing that consumers are paying a lot more for both new and used cars right now. We're looking at prices that haven't jumped this fast in decades.
 
Vanessa Yurkevich is here taking a look at this. So how much more are people paying right now?
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: It's a steep increase every month. So on average Americans are paying about $754 per month for their car payments. That's an increase from 691 in March of 2022. That's a $63 per month increase and largely in part because of these interest rates.
 <br>[09:50:11]
 
So car loan rates are going up. They're at about 7% today compared to March 2022 when they were 4.5%.
 
BOLDUAN: That is going to have an impact.
 
YURKEVICH: That's going to have an impact. And also when you couple that with the car prices alone, new car prices, I mean, they're steep. We're talking about $47,000 today, on average, for a new car, compare that to five years ago when it was about $35,000. And then used cars are also up about $10,000 over the past five years, about $30,000 today for a used car, about 21,000 five years ago.
 
I remember when I paid, you know, $7,500 for my used Volkswagen Beetle, that is not the reality.
 
BOLDUAN: I actually went back and looked at what my first car back in 2000 was versus today, vastly different.
 
YURKEVICH: Right, vastly different. And an interesting part of the used car market is that rental cars play a huge role. Rental car companies are holding on to their cars right now, which means that less used cars are moving into the market. Because essentially, they're saying we don't want to pay higher prices, we're going to hold on to cars longer. And that means they don't put their used cars into the market for people to buy.
 
So the advice from car experts right now, if you own a car and you can hang on to it for a little bit longer, try to do so until you can see some good cash rebates on deals. And then if you lease, maybe buy out your lease, if you're not seeing good lease options out there.
 
Moral of the story here, unfortunately, high interest rates, they're going to remain high and high prices on cars going to stay that way. So it's not a great market for a car but if you look for really good deals, you may find a couple but experts saying it's not getting better.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes, just hang on. Hang on to what you got for a little bit longer.
 
YURKEVICH: And Volkswagen Beetle for $7,500, that's not happening today.
 
BOLDUAN: A classic. Good to see you.
 
YURKEVICH: Classic car.
 
BERMAN: Sara?
 
SIDNER: now to a potential breakthrough in the fight against muscular dystrophy. An experimental gene therapy is showing great promise in treating a specific form of envy called Duchenne. The genetic disorder primarily impacts children who often lose their ability to walk by the time they are teenagers, and most don't live past 30 years old. CNN's medical correspondent Meg Tirrell is joining me now.
 
An FDA panel is going to consider this gene therapy, but it's shaping up to be a really emotional and tense discussion, why?
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Really is, I mean, as you describe this is a very horrible disease and the patients and families we spoke with who participated in the clinical trials are convinced that it's helping their kids. But the FDA really isn't, take a look at why.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TIRRELL (voice-over): When Brecken Kinney was about a year old, his parents noticed he wasn't keeping up with other toddlers.
 
MARIT SIVERTSON, MOTHER OF DUCHENNE MD PATIENT: Getting around just seemed to be pretty difficult for him.
 
TIRRELL (voice-over): His doctors initially didn't express concern.
 
SIVERTSON: Call it mom's intuition but I knew that there was something wrong.
 
TIRRELL (voice-over): The diagnosis when Brecken was almost three was worse than almost anything they could have imagined, a disease called Duchenne muscular dystrophy. With current treatments, kids with DMD usually lose the ability to walk before they're teenagers, and on average don't live past 30.
 
JAMES KINNEY, FATHER OF DUCHENNE MD PATIENT: In that moment, I just, everything changed, you know, all the thoughts we had about the future and everything like that just kind of stopped. And I remember going into his bedroom and just like looking at him when he was taking a nap, and just like crying and sobbing.
 
TIRRELL (voice-over): It was two years with Brecken having more and more trouble doing things like going upstairs before the family saw a glimmer of hope. Brecken was admitted to a clinical trial of an experimental gene therapy, a new way of trying to slow the disease's progression with a one time treatment.
 
JEFFREY CHAMBERLAIN, GENE THERAPHY RESEARCHER, UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON: The cause of the disease is a mutation in a single gene. And the idea behind gene therapy is if you can take a normal working version of that gene and put it back into the muscles of the kids, it should fix the problem of the disease.
 
TIRRELL (voice-over): The goal is to help kids muscles create a version of a protein called dystrophin.
 
CHAMBERLAIN: So it's kind of like the two by fours that make up your house, it's really important for just holding everything together.
 
BRECKEN KINNEY, DUCHENNE MD PATIENT: Look at him go, down the field. No one can get them.
 
TIRRELL (voice-over): In trials, it did that and families like Brecken's are convinced it's helped their kids walk better and stay stronger for years longer than they would have. But a key clinical trial run by the drugs maker, Sarepta Therapeutics, didn't meet one of its main goals, evidence of a clear benefit on muscle function, leading to an uncertain path to FDA approval.
 
Documents released this week, FDA reviewers said that, "studies do not provide unambiguous evidence that the therapy SRP-9001 is likely beneficial for some patients. They also said the FDA has "safety concerns about the possibility of administering an ineffective gene therapy"
 
Today, a group of outside advisors to the agency is meeting to discuss whether the therapy should get accelerated approval. Brecken's mom, Marit, is among many parents speaking at the meeting.
 
SIVERTSON: We've seen the incredible changes with our son, you know, he's not just walking around. He's running, he's swimming, he's diving. He's truly living the life that every nine-year-old boy ought to be living.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TIRRELL: So the vote today really is just a recommendation to the FDA, the agency is set to decide by the end of the month. And it's a huge moment not just for these families, of course, but also because this would be the first time that a gene therapy for disease like this gets accelerated approval, so could have real precedent for how the FDA regulates a lot of other treatments like this.
 
SIDNER: It was a really sweet story and I wish the best to Brecken and his family. What a cutie, all right. John?
 
BERMAN: All right. Sara, Elon Musk says he is making good on his promise to replace himself as CEO of Twitter. Here's a question, who actually wants the job? And a Cavatelli crisis, the fettuccine fractus, the manicotti moment of truth. Pasta prices are soaring across Italy sending the government there, and this is serious, really.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)