Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Thirteen Of The Hostages Held By Hamas Are Set To Be Released On Friday; Qatar: Aid Will Start Flowing Into Gaza Once Truce Begins; Shock Dutch Election Victory For Far-Right Politician Geert Wilders; Israel-Hamas War; Interview With Palestinian National Initiative President Mustafa Barghouti; Qatar: Truce To Begin At 7AM Friday In Israel And Gaza; Al-Shifa Hospital's Director In Gaza In Custody By IDF; Life Under Fire In Gaza Documented By A Video Blogger; Stabbing Attack In Ireland Left Five People Injured, Including Children; Claims Of Sexual Assault Disputed By New York Mayor; Allegations Of Sexual Assault Against Jamie Foxx And Axl Rose. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired November 23, 2023 - 14:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
ISA SOARES, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT:  A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, 13 of the hostages held by Hamas are set 
 
 to be released on Friday. We'll bring you the details of how that will happen. Meanwhile, Qatar says aid will begin to flow into Gaza once a truce 
 
 comes into effect. We'll have the very latest on the humanitarian situation there. 
 
Plus, a surprise landslide victory for the far-right in the Netherlands. We'll have all the reaction to Geert Wilders' shock victory. But first, the 
 
 agonizing wait for the families of hostages being held by Hamas continues until Friday. A truce between Israel and Hamas is now expected to begin 
 
 Friday at 7:00 a.m. in Israel, 7:00 a.m. local time there and Gaza. That's midnight eastern. 
 
The first 13 civilian hostages will be released, about nine hours later. Those details announced by a Qatari Foreign Ministry spokesman who says 
 
 both sides appear ready to move forward. Have a listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MAJED AL-ANSARI, SPOKESPERSON, FOREIGN AFFAIRS MINISTRY, QATAR:  We are hoping that we don't see any delays, and I think we've reached a point now 
 
 where everything is in place, and we are ready to go on the ground. So, we are hopeful that, as I told you, by 7:00 a.m. tomorrow, everything will 
 
 stop. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  Well, meanwhile, where the truce is set to start, Israel's Defense Minister giving an idea of how long the conflict in Gaza could last. 
 
 Speaking in the last hour, Yoav Gallant said he expects the military operation against Hamas will go on for at least two more months. 
 
Our Becky Anderson is in Doha, our Oren Liebermann joins us now from Tel Aviv. And Becky, to you first, because you were at that press conference 
 
 there with the Qataris. Talk us through the mechanics, first of all, of this deal and how it will happen, Becky. 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR:  It's four days of what is being described as a truce or a pause. And during that time, the idea is or 
 
 certainly, the plan is to effect the release of 50 women and children being held by Hamas. The -- on the other side, the Palestinians will have 50 
 
 women and teenagers released from Israeli jails. 
 
So that's in principle what happens on the hostage file. And as you rightly pointed out, there is -- the other leg of this, of course, is an increase 
 
 in aid during that period of time, of something like 200 trucks of supplies, including fuel, a day, coming in through the Rafah Crossing in 
 
 order to support the humanitarian effort. 
 
The enormous humanitarian effort that is needed in the Gaza Strip, specifically for hospitals and schools. On the hostage file, then, we have 
 
 now, as we understand it, and this is what we learned from the press conference today, there are the names of 13 women and children that has 
 
 been released by Hamas who are holding something like 50 women and children at present. 
 
Thirteen of whom will be released tomorrow just after 4 O'clock local time. The Israelis tell us that they have that list, they know who those 13 are 
 
 now, and that the families of those have been identified. They've been identified, they've been told the logistics then, as far as how those 
 
 hostages are released. Well, they will be released into the hands of the ICRC, and then they will be routed out of Gaza into Israel, where they will 
 
 get to see their families and get hospital treatment if that is what is needed. 
 
The both sides have an obligation, a set of obligations that they need to fulfill, in order to ensure this four-day truce works. One of those is a 
 
 cessation of hostilities. Ground hostilities -- ground operations must stop on both sides and full periods of time, there should be nothing flown in 
 
 the air, not least drones over where these hostages are going to be released. 
 
Otherwise, you know, the idea is that possibly, that they could be confused for hostile aircraft or drones in the air. 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
So, that's as things stand. I've had this deal, the machinations of this deal described to me as intense, as extremely difficult at times, but let's 
 
 -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
ANDERSON:  Be quite clear, this is a huge diplomatic breakthrough, if it works. 
 
SOARES:  Yes, intense, difficult, and also fragile, as you and I were saying, Becky. Oren, to you. I mean, I was speaking to a member of a 
 
 hostage families whose family members are being held by Hamas, and for them, of course, this is an agonizing wait. Talk to the mood in Israel and 
 
 how this is being received right now. 
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  Isa, before I start talking here, I have to explain that there is a car playing very loud dance music 
 
 here behind me, I suspect my microphone can pick that up. I just wanted -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
LIEBERMANN:  To explain that because it is incredibly loud here at night in Tel Aviv here. As for the families, it has been not only, of course, a very 
 
 difficult day, but a very difficult nearly seven weeks waiting for any news of their loved ones. And over the course of the past 24 hours, we have seen 
 
 another delay. We thought this would all move forward today, and it seems that that's how the Israeli government was prepping for it with a viewing 
 
 area for the transfers for the video that they could share with media. 
 
But in the end, that fell apart and was delayed by about 24 hours or so, because of the final details, the final logistics that had to be hammered 
 
 out and the troubleshoot over different scenarios that can happen here. That made it even more difficult for the families, and now it's not just a 
 
 list of the first 50 that will come out, the list is broken up day-by-day. 
 
So, only 13 families get to find out today. Another 12 or 13 or so tomorrow, and it will be day after day of this, obviously, for the first 
 
 four days of this pause in the fighting, but then if there is an extension, it continues at that slow, frankly, very cruel, difficult pace for these 
 
 families -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
LIEBERMANN:  Who are waiting to find out. The only hint they have is it's women and children first, and -- but obviously, that's not -- it's not a 
 
 lot of information at what is still an incredibly difficult time, Isa.  
 
SOARES:  Indeed, Oren Liebermann for us, and our Becky Anderson, thank you to you both. And the truce would also allow more aid as Becky was saying to 
 
 enter Gaza. Night convoy of trucks is on standby on the Egyptian side of the Rafah Border Crossing between Egypt and Gaza. The IDF said they 
 
 continue to strike targets in Gaza ahead of that truce, and have arrested the director of Al-Shifa; Gaza's largest hospital. 
 
He was reportedly part of the World Health Organization convoy evacuating people from the hospital, and was arrested at a checkpoint in central Gaza. 
 
 Palestinian officials are blaming the United Nations for this and have now suspended cooperation with the W.H.O. Well, the IDF have claimed the 
 
 hospital was serving as a Hamas command center, something hospital officials and Hamas deny. 
 
More than 2 million people have been running out of food in Gaza as well as fuel. Andrea De Domenico is the head of the U.N.'s Office for Coordination 
 
 of Humanitarian Affairs in the Palestinian territories. He joins me now. Andrea, thank you very much for taking the time to speak to us. Let's talk, 
 
 first of all, about this truce, in particular, the humanitarian aid. What is your understanding, Andrea, of how soon after the truce goes ahead at 
 
 7:00 a.m., that aid can go in? 
 
ANDREA DE DOMENICO, HEAD, UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR COORDINATION OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS IN PALESTINIAN TERRITORIES:  Thank you for having me, 
 
 Isa. I think and I hope it will be immediately, actually. You know, we are aligning our efforts already since a couple of days to be ready to profit 
 
 as much as possible of this unique opportunity. 
 
We have to maximize the time available, and we have made a lot of efforts to make sure that we are ready to not only bring in assistance, but also 
 
 distribute within Gaza, which is the most important piece then of the puzzle to deliver assistance to people that are desperately in need. 
 
SOARES:  So, your understanding, Andrea, is that as soon as that truce goes into force at 7:00 a.m. local, then you -- then convoys can start going in, 
 
 aid convoys can start going in. Is that correct? 
 
DE DOMENICO:  That's correct. In addition to those convoys that are already inside, that there's been, you know, stored -- the limited storage that we 
 
 have is already there. And so, there will be immediately an activation of different operations -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
DE DOMENICO:  That were planned. My team has planned very detailed operations to make sure that we use this pause as an opportunity really, to 
 
 maximize the time. 
 
SOARES:  Let's talk -- before we talk about how you maximize the time and what the operation is from you and your team, what is in -- we've seen the 
 
 convoys, we just played video of the long line of aid trucks lining up right outside between Gaza and Egypt. Can you tell us what's in those 
 
 trucks or what's your understanding of what is most needed right now? 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
DE DOMENICO:  Right, Isa, yet following this week, the reality is that very little has entered this week into Gaza. So the needs are absolutely, you 
 
 know, dire and -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
DE DOMENICO:  Vast. We need food, we need water, we need items of the normal living. Winter is coming and the conditions are getting harsher and 
 
 harsher. So we have to provide people everything. You know, hygiene kits for women -- it's really everything. So, there is no short -- 
 
 unfortunately, there is no shortage of needs. What there is a shortage of is assistance. 
 
SOARES:  Yes, and the need is dire, as you said. And we've heard that here on the show time and time again, almost daily, Andrea, from doctors in the 
 
 south of the Gaza Strip, doctors from the north, who had very little in terms of medication in any way to treat any of the injuries that we have 
 
 seen. Will -- do you know, Andrea, whether fuel will be part of this? 
 
DE DOMENICO:  Yes. It's part of the deal because otherwise we would not be able to operate, as simple as this. We have identified already some 
 
 critical services that need absolutely to be resumed, in particular, desalination plants, hospitals, sewage pumping stations, so we can make 
 
 sure that sanitation remains under control, and we have already -- the disease -- the spreading of disease that could be, you know, having an 
 
 impact, a terrific impact -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
DE DOMENICO:  On people. So, you know, really, we have prioritized very well our actions. Hopefully, we'll be able to achieve our objectives in 
 
 this -- in this four days. 
 
SOARES:  And you mentioned -- you mentioned twice, as you and I were talking, you talked about maximizing your team, maximizing this time. Four 
 
 days is not very much, right? And we've heard this already from several NGOs, you know? We were -- we were having 450 or so aid trucks going in on 
 
 average daily before October the 7th. Talk to -- talk to the plan, the strategy from you and your team, how you maximize this time, then, Andrea. 
 
DE DOMENICO:  So, the effort of the team in consultation, of course, with all the members of the humanitarian community that are deployed there is 
 
 really to -- has been really to focus on three fundamental actions. One is a critical, lifesaving interventions, like evacuation of care patients that 
 
 are in life-threatening conditions. Similar to what we have done in the past days in Shifa Hospital, but also in other places, of course. 
 
The second line of priorities is on life sustaining interventions, to deliver essential supplies to people. Food, water, fuel, basic medications, 
 
 to combat the spread of diseases, as I said. And the third one, which is also important, is the repairs and maintenance of critical infrastructures 
 
 like -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
DE DOMENICO:  The desalination plant, like the water pipes. Because this will have a lasting effect on the operations, of course. 
 
SOARES:  Yes, and of course, we've seen so many hospitals that are no longer operational, right? Because they don't have the means to operate, no 
 
 fuel. And this is a huge concern. You mentioned that -- correct me if I'm wrong, that people will be able to leave those who need medical attention 
 
 will be able to be evacuated. Can you just confirm that as the case? 
 
DE DOMENICO:  So, the idea is really to focus on those hospitals that we know that has still patients inside and there are no longer able to provide 
 
 any medical treatment. You know, ideally, we should resume the activities of these hospitals -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
DE DOMENICO:  But I guess that is something that won't be possible. So, we will focus -- 
 
SOARES:  Right -- 
 
DE DOMENICO:  Then, on those cases. 
 
SOARES:  And very briefly because we're running out of time, Andrea, would your team be able to go up, and I'm guessing this move here a huge 
 
 challenge, and maybe this is a no, but you tell me if I'm wrong to -- north of Gaza Strip, I'm thinking Al-Shifa here, Al-Shifa Hospital.  
 
DE DOMENICO:  Listen, we hope that a humanitarian pause is used to that end. Of course, we hope that that's the spirit in which we want to see it 
 
 and we will make any effort possible to do that. 
 
SOARES:  Andrea De Domenico, thank you very much for taking the time to speak to us. Keep us abreast of all the developments. Thank you, Andrea. 
 
DE DOMENICO:  Thank you for having me. 
 
SOARES:  Thank you. Well, Israel says it used helicopters and fighter jets to strike Hezbollah infrastructure and launch sites in Lebanon. The strike 
 
 comes after Hezbollah said it launched close to 50 rockets in an IDF military base in northern Israel. And it comes as Iran's foreign minister 
 
 was in Lebanon on Thursday.
 
You're looking at pictures there to meet with the leader of Hezbollah. I want to bring in CNN's Ben Wedeman in Beirut. 
 <br>[14:15:00]
 
And Ben, first of all, I wonder what the reaction has been from Nasrallah, from Hezbollah, to this truce that we have heard being announced in the 
 
 last what? Four, five hours or so. 
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, we know that a Hezbollah official did tell "Al Jazeera Arabic" that Hezbollah would abide 
 
 by the truce, even though it is not a signatory to it or in any way participant. So, it does appear that they plan on cooling things down on 
 
 the border if the Israelis do. Basically, the Hezbollah officials said that if the Israelis don't fire, we won't fire back. 
 
But Hossein Abdollahian; who is the Iranian Foreign Minister who is here not just meeting with Hezbollah, with Nasrallah, but with other Lebanese 
 
 officials as well. He told the "Mayadeen" television station here in Beirut that if the truce does not hold, in his words, the scope of the war will 
 
 expand. 
 
Now, Mr. Abdollahian has sort of gone hot and cold since the beginning of this war. Perhaps his bark is louder than his bite, but certainly, what 
 
 we're seeing today has been some of the most intense exchanges of fire between Hezbollah and Israel. We count well over 20 strikes by Hezbollah on 
 
 the Israeli positions. Now, you mentioned they fired 48 Katyusha missiles at one Israeli base, but there is a variety of other strikes as well. 
 
In fact, I just got word right just a few minutes ago, another volley of missiles fired into Israel. The Israelis say they are hitting back, hitting 
 
 what they call infrastructure as well as the launch sites. Now, this was all set off when yesterday evening, there was an Israeli strike on a house 
 
 about 7.5 kilometers inside Lebanon. There were five Hezbollah fighters inside. 
 
One of them happened to be the son of the leader of Hezbollah's parliamentary bloc, and so, we can interpret many of the strikes today as 
 
 revenge for that. But we shall see if -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
WEDEMAN:  When quiet -- if quiet comes to Gaza, if it comes to the border between Israel and Lebanon as well. Isa? 
 
SOARES:  Yes, and we have heard from Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari, the IDF spokesman in the last, what? The last hour, 20 minutes. And he said, Ben, 
 
 "we are going to attack any threat in our territory", referring to whether they, during this truce, whether they would attack anyone mentioning -- he 
 
 even mentioned Hezbollah. But we've also heard today in the last 20 minutes or so that Israel expects two more months of fighting against Hamas, Ben. 
 
WEDEMAN:  Yes, and I was also reading audits that they're talking about once they have control of Gaza, the war will continue, which raises 
 
 questions of, well, once that is done, are they going to turn, for instance, to Lebanon? 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
WEDEMAN:  And that is a concern. Now, we've seen, for instance, 50,000 people, according to the U.N., have left the towns and villages along 
 
 Lebanon's southern border as a result of this fighting, and many people are always afraid here that there could -- be a repeat of the 33-day long 2006 
 
 war between Hezbollah and Lebanon -- I mean, in Israel -- 
 
SOARES:  Ben Wedeman -- 
 
WEDEMAN:  Excuse me. Isa? 
 
SOARES:  It's OK, I understood. Thanks very much, Ben Wedeman for us there in Beirut, appreciate it. And still to come tonight, Geert Wilders' far-
 
 right party scored a landslide victory in the Netherlands. What it means for the EU and Ukraine as well for Dutch Muslims and immigrants. That 
 
 story, after this break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
SOARES:  A surprise landslide victory for the far-right in the Netherlands. Anti-EU, anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant politician, Geert Wilders, could 
 
 become the country's next prime minister. His Freedom Party won the most seats in Wednesdays election. He would need a coalition to govern, but says 
 
 he is willing to do that. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEERT WILDERS, LEADER, FREEDOM PARTY, NETHERLANDS:  Of course, we are willing to negotiate, because we want to form a coalition for our voters, I 
 
 believe it's approximately 2 million voters yesterday that voted for our party. We are eager to do that because it gives us a lot of 
 
 responsibilities, this huge win in the Dutch elections. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES:  Our Anna Stewart is with me now for much more. Anna, let me pick up what we've interrupted in the last hour, apologies for interrupting you. 
 
 You were telling me about how actually Wilders has done this because he's a well-known face to many in Europe. 
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER:  He's a well known and certainly a controversial character -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  Let's be fair. This is a far-right politician who, in the past, has said he would like to see all Mosques close in the Netherlands. He 
 
 would like to ban the Quran. He says he would like a referendum on the EU. However, he has put many of those policies really to one side. He's been 
 
 focusing much more on immigration. Curbing immigration, and that has pretty much, I think, what has won this election. So hot --  
 
SOARES:  Immigration was the key win factor there that won for him. 
 
STEWART:  Yes, immigration actually been what really had the downfall of the last government. It collapsed because they couldn't come to any 
 
 agreement on how to curb asylum applications. So, this is already a hot topic, and you have to remember that in the Netherlands, the economy is in 
 
 recession. 
 
They had one of the highest inflation figures of Europe, 17 percent last year. So, there was a cost of living crisis. So, all of that fed in very 
 
 well to this argument, it was in many ways a one issue election, and Wilders won it. 
 
SOARES:  Wilders won, and the question now is, can he form a coalition? Will we have enough support? Of course, we've seen across Europe has become 
 
 coalition governments, right? Leading many of the governments in Europe. Can -- will he have the support here? 
 
STEWART: That is the big question. Winning is one thing, forming a government -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  Is a totally different challenge for Wilders, particularly as he will need to have coalition partners. You need a majority, you need, out of 
 
 the 150 seats in parliament, you're going to need 76. And currently, he only has I think it's 37. Possible that he could get there. I think he'll 
 
 need at least two coalition parties. Prior to the election, they all said they would not go into government with him. 
 
Now, there's a bit of a softening of the stance, and you have to remember that for any politician in Netherlands, they have to realize that over 2 
 
 million people have voted -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  For this party. So, he does have a mandate. 
 
SOARES:  Have a mandate, but I wonder -- you said that his views or his policy has somehow been softened. I wonder whether his manifesto -- that's 
 
 reflected in his manifesto because that would be a concern for some of these parties. 
 
STEWART:  Yes, and I think they will need to see not just a softening of rhetoric, but -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  Perhaps even a reversal or a firm no on many of the issues that Wilder's has stood for, for many years. Particularly on the EU, he will not 
 
 find many friends in that parliament outside of his own party who want to leave the European Union. This is one of the founding members of the EU. 
 
SOARES:  Yes, on that, any reaction from the EU to this win? 
 
STEWART:  Lots of reaction, particularly for some far-right and populist parties. For instance Marine Le Pen in France, they're hoping that this 
 
 means they'll do rather well in the EU parliamentary elections next year. It sends a warning shot across Europe. 
 
SOARES:  Indeed, Anna Stewart, appreciate it, thank you very much. And the Dutch election raises new questions about support for Ukraine. 
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
Wilders has said the Netherlands should stop providing arms to Ukraine because it needs them to protect itself. Meanwhile, one person is dead and 
 
 another injured after Russian strikes on Kherson. A local official says Russia launched 65 attacks using mortars, artillery, rockets, drones and 
 
 aircraft. He says the strikes hit residential areas, a school and a medical facility. 
 
And still ahead on the show, for some Israeli and Palestinian families, an agonizing wait is coming to an end. We'll speak to a prominent Palestinian 
 
 lawmaker about the hostage deal set to take effect tomorrow at 7:00 a.m. And a Palestinian blogger tells the story, her story of life under fire in 
 
 Gaza. That report coming up after this break. You are watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOARES:  Welcome back, everyone. Israeli and Palestinian families are both anxiously watching the clock, waiting for the first release of the hostages 
 
 to begin after a one day delay. Mediators in Qatar have announced a brief truce between Israel and Hamas will take effect Friday morning, followed by 
 
 the release of 13 Israeli women and children, nine hours later. 
 
A Palestinian official tells CNN he expects between 30 and 35 Palestinian prisoners to be freed as well. We're joined now by Mustafa Barghouti; 
 
 President of Palestinian National Initiative, he's also a prominent member of the Palestinian parliament in Ramallah in the West Bank. 
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
Mr. Barghouti, welcome back to the show. Let me first get your reaction to this deal that has been reached in the last several hours with the Qataris. 
 
 Your reaction, sir.
 
MUSTAFA BARGHOUTI, PRESIDENT, PALESTINIAN NATIONAL INITIATIVE AND PALESTINIAN PARLIAMENT MEMBER:  It's a very good deal because it would 
 
 allow 50 Israeli children and women to come back home safe, and also will allow 150 Palestinian children and women to be freed. Those people have 
 
 been in Israeli jails for a very long time, some for years and some for months.
 
This exchange is very useful. It breaks a lot of Israeli government taboos. They said there will be no ceasefire whatsoever, in reality, they accepted 
 
 a ceasefire for four days. Hopefully it would be extended further.
 
Second, they said they will not accept any exchange of prisoners. Now, they have to accept exchange of prisoners. As much as Israeli children and women 
 
 have to be released, also Palestinian children and women have to be released. And third, they said they will uproot Hamas and they will not 
 
 talk to them, but actually they are negotiating with them and making even a deal with them.
 
So, all in all, it's a positive development. The most important thing is maybe to prolong this ceasefire because the atrocities on the Palestinian 
 
 sides are beyond any tolerance. We are talking about 15,000 Palestinians almost killed, so far, including 6,150 children.  If we count the number of 
 
 children under the rubble, you're talking about 9,000 Palestinian children killed so far.
 
SOARES:  Let me break down what you said. You said it's showing that it's breaking taboos from the Israeli government. What do you think here 
 
 clinched this deal? Why do you think that Israel agreed to this? I was speaking to Daniel Levy in the last hour. He was saying to me that the 
 
 pressure seems to have been from the family members of the hostages. They've realized there was internal political pressure. What do you think 
 
 clinched this?
 
BARGHOUTI:  Of course, the families of the prisoners, the pressure was very important factor and continues to be an important factor. And of course, 
 
 after the release of 50 of these prisoners, there will be greater even pressure from the rest of the families. So, that is an important factor.
 
But there are other factors, including the fact that Israeli army did not really succeed in achieving the military goals they have announced. I mean, 
 
 they are still -- it's true that their tanks are in Gaza City, but they are not in control and they couldn't break the Palestinian resistance. So, that 
 
 is an additional factor.
 
That third factor is definitely the United States and Mr. Biden's administration. I think President Biden supported this operation thinking 
 
 it will help him get reelected. But I think he's now discovering that the majority of the American public are against his policy regarding this war.
 
And there is -- I would say, a world revolution everywhere from peoples of the world against the continuation of this aggression on the Palestinian 
 
 people against the fact that Palestinian children and women and innocent civilians are slaughtered every day by Israeli airstrikes and Israeli 
 
 bombardment. I think the president and his administration have to rethink again because probably this war could cause him -- could cost him even the 
 
 possibility of re-election.
 
SOARES:  And you mentioned the Palestinian prisoners that will be released. We know that roughly about 35 -- between 30 and 35, Mr. Barghouti, will be 
 
 released every day. The mass -- the vast majority of the prisoners -- the Palestinian prisons are male teenagers, from what I understand, between the 
 
 ages of 16 to 18. Do you have a sense of who they may be? Where they will go?
 
BARGHOUTI:  You can call them teenagers, you can call them children, because anybody below the age of 18 is considered a child. And some of them 
 
 are 15 years old, some are 14 years old. One woman who would be released is 82 years old, who was arrested three weeks ago by the Israeli army. For 
 
 what reason, I don't understand.
 
So, obviously it's the same thing. On the Israeli side, there are children and women. On the Palestinian side, there are children and women. And I 
 
 think it should be looked at the two cases in an equality, in a matter of equality. And I think Palestinians and Israelis are equal human beings, and 
 
 that's why if they are called children on one side, they should be called children on the other side.
 
SOARES:  But can you just tell us who expecting the release to be tomorrow from the Israeli -- from the hostages being held by Hamas. Is your 
 
 understanding that the Palestinian prisoners will also be released tomorrow at the same time? Where will they be going?
 <br>[14:35:00]
 
Will they be going to the West Bank? What is your -- what are you hearing, Mr. Barghouti?
 
BARGHOUTI:  A vast majority of the Palestinian children who would be released are from Jerusalem City. And they will be going home to their city 
 
 in Jerusalem. Some others are from other parts of the West Bank, of course, they will be released and they will go to their towns and villages. A small 
 
 number are from Gaza, and I think arrangements will be made here to find a way through the Red Cross to get them back to Gaza, although unfortunately 
 
 Gaza is under terrible bombardment at the moment.
 
SOARES:  For the 35 -- between 30 and 35, they're expected to be released hopefully tomorrow, have those families, from what you understand Mr. 
 
 Barghouti, have they been informed?
 
BARGHOUTI:  I didn't -- couldn't hear you well please.
 
SOARES:  My -- 
 
BARGHOUTI:  Can you repeat the question?
 
SOARES:  Of course. Of course. My question is, for those 30 to 35 Palestinian prisoners that will be released tomorrow, have their families 
 
 been informed?
 
BARGHOUTI:  The problem here is that the Israeli regulation is that they would publish the names of prisoners that are expected to be released and 
 
 allowing the Israeli public to protest if they want to against the release. This has caused problems before. So, in this case, the Israeli government 
 
 has published 300 names. Knowing that at this stage, the number of people who will be released in four days is 150.
 
So, the families already know the names of 300, but who of them will be released eventually, it's not clear yet. But in general, there is now a 
 
 knowledge of the 300 names. But I do have -- I do anticipate that probably this is an -- with the expectation that this -- hopefully this ceasefire 
 
 will be will be prolonged, and more exchange of prisoners will take place in the future.
 
SOARES:  Are you saying it will be prolonged past the four days? Because we've had -- 
 
BARGHOUTI:  yes.
 
SOARES:  -- the Israeli defense minister saying today that he expects two more months of fighting against Hamas.
 
BARGHOUTI:  The Israeli defense minister wants to kill all Palestinians if he can. He calls Palestinians, human animals. I think this is a fascist 
 
 behavior on his side. And that's why this man wants war and more atrocity and more bombardment. But it's not up to him alone, because of the pressure 
 
 of the Israeli families who want to see the prisoners released, I think he cannot decide on his own. And that's why there is every possibility that 
 
 there will be extension, not by one day, but even by more days. 
 
SOARES:  And of course, what we have heard from the Israelis is that their fight, of course, Mr. Barghouti, you would have heard this, isn't against 
 
 the Palestinians, but against, of course, Hamas. Bringing an end to Hamas. Breaking the back of Hamas. Mr. Barghouti, always great to get your insight 
 
 and your perspective, really appreciate it.
 
BARGHOUTI:  Thank you.
 
SOARES:  Thank you, sir.
 
BARGHOUTI:  Thank you.
 
SOARES:  When the last hour, I spoke to a man whose sister was killed by Hamas and who has family members being held hostage in Gaza. Ahal Besorai 
 
 said he's hopeful, but also afraid to get his hopes up. Describing an incredible, painful wait. Have a listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AHAL BESORAI, FAMILY MEMBERS TAKEN HOSTAGE BY HAMAS:  I try to keep positive, you know, to pray, maybe, for the release. Talk to family members 
 
 and friends about it. And, you know, just as hard as it is with this situation, try -- just try to be hopeful and positive rather than negative 
 
 in desperation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  The Israeli military is continuing to strike targets in Gaza ahead of the truce. And the IDF say, they have detained the director of Al-Shifa 
 
 Hospital, that's Gaza's largest -- let me say that again, Gaza's largest hospital for questioning. According to the IDF, it's over allegations that 
 
 the hospital served as a Hamas command and control center, something both doctors and Hamas deny.
 
Our Nada Bashir is in Jerusalem for us. So, Nada, you know, the sense is before this truce goes ahead at 7:00 a.m., local time, that both sides will 
 
 up the ante in the hours leading to that in the 12 hours or so. Give us a sense of what you are hearing from those in the ground.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER:  Well, we certainly have seen those airstrikes continue to intensify in Northern Gaza, and there is a fear that tonight we 
 
 could, once again, see those airstrikes intensifying, the ground fighting and shelling also intensifying across northern and central Gaza in the 
 
 hours before that truce hopefully gets into place.
 
Now, of course, there are fears around the safety and security of civilians there. As you mentioned, the Israeli Defense Force says it is targeting 
 
 Hamas positions in Norther Gaza.
 <br>[14:40:00]
 
But as we know, there are still many civilians who have not yet been able to evacuate Northern Gaza, who are still in those cities that are heavily 
 
 bombarded. We heard from the IDF yesterday saying that they had encircled the Jabalia neighborhood. As we know that Jabalia refugee camp located 
 
 there, densely populated, many civilians. And this is an area that has been repeatedly bombarded now by airstrikes. And we have seen those casualties 
 
 in nearby hospitals, mounting as a result of that ongoing aerial bombardment.
 
So, there are serious concerns. We've been speaking to Palestinian civilians on the ground, many of whom are actually from the Jabalia 
 
 neighborhood, who have told us that in attempting to flee, they have moved from city to city to city and have been followed each time by yet more 
 
 airstrikes.
 
One family telling us, their child upon the full city that they had actually left and evacuated to was implicated -- was injured in an 
 
 airstrike, had to have his left arm amputated as a result. And as we know, there are real fears around the safety and security of Gaza's hospitals. 
 
 The vast majority in Northern Gaza are now completely inoperational.
 
We have seen those efforts by humanitarian organizations, including international partners, trying to evacuate those last remaining patients 
 
 from those hospitals to Southern Gaza. But that has also proven very difficult. We know that there are still many patients in those hospitals in 
 
 Northern Gaza, including the Al-Shifa Hospital, which has been the focus of that IDF raid.
 
The Israel Defense Force saying they are focusing on unveiling a Hamas command and control center, they believe to be beneath the Al Shifa 
 
 Hospital. As you mentioned, that has been staunchly denied by both Hamas and doctors on the ground. CNN is, of course, not on the ground. We are 
 
 unable to independently verify either side's claims. The United Nations has urged and appealed for access to Al-Shifa, as well as other parts of Gaza 
 
 in order to carry out their own investigations. But also crucially, they are seeking longer term access to provide that essential humanitarian aid.
 
And as we wait for that truce to come into force, the real hope now is that this window of four days, if it is indeed upheld for four days, will 
 
 provide a crucial window for those aid agencies to get that vital aid into Gaza. And of course, as we know, there are some 1.7 million people now 
 
 displaced in Gaza, desperate for aid and humanitarian support.
 
SOARES:  Yes, much needed aid as you quite rightly say. Nada Bashir, as always. Thank you, Nada.
 
Well, after six weeks of war, life for millions in Gaza is now beyond recognition. One blogger inside Gaza recorded how her world changed forever 
 
 after Israel's missiles came.
 
Our Jomana Karadsheh has this report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
Salamat, ma'akum ayat.
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  Life before the wars felt like a distant memory for video blogger Ayat Kaddoura. They 
 
 were the days when she'd smile in her videos, taking her followers behind the scenes of her work in Gaza.  For weeks now, her posts have been about 
 
 life at a time of war.
 
AYAT KADDOURA, VIDEO BLOGGER (through translator):  We now wake up at 5:00 a.m. to queue for bread. We now walk more than six kilometers to fill up a 
 
 gallon of salty or fresh water. We charge our phones on the streets using the solar power we can find. We crave our favorite foods, but there's no 
 
 power, no gas or water. So, we have to make do with canned foods.
 
KARADSHEH (voiceover):  Ayat showed people how Gazans survive, neighbors sharing the little they have to bake bread in clay ovens. And at times, it 
 
 was about how close death felt as bombs rained down on Gaza.
 
KADDOURA (through translator):  This might be my last video. They dropped leaflets asking people to evacuate the area. Most people fled. People were 
 
 running in the streets like crazy, not knowing where to go. The situation is terrifying. God have mercy on us.
 
KARADSHEH (voiceover):  As the war intensified in the north, Ayat didn't leave. The safety they were told to evacuate to in the south was an 
 
 illusion. Nowhere in Gaza is safe, she said.
 
KADDOURA (through translator):  Death and destruction is everywhere in Gaza. The occupation has no mercy on anyone. Not the elderly, not the 
 
 children, not the women, no one. All civilians are under fire in Gaza. Where are the decision makers? Where's the world? Gaza is being 
 
 annihilated. We are dying. Someone do something. Enough.
 
KARADSHEH (voiceover):  But these desperate cries of so many like Ayat haven't stopped this seemingly endless nightmare for the people of Gaza 
 
 where burying their dead has become their everyday. Where every moment feels like it may be their last.
 
On Monday, it was Ayat's. Killed along with other family members in a night of intense bombardment of Beit Lahia. Her last video, the haunting words of 
 
 a 27-year-old with a final message from Gaza to the world.
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
KADDOURA (through translator):  We're humans, like everyone else. We had big dreams. Now, our dream is, if we are killed, we are a body in one piece 
 
 so we can be identified. Buried in a grave, not body parts in a bag. When will this war end? Who will remain to tell people what happened to us? What 
 
 we lived through? What we've witnessed?
 
KARADSHEH (voiceover):  Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  And we'll be back after a short break with some of the other big headlines for you this hour. Do stay right here with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOARES:  At least five people, including three children, have been injured in a knife attack in Dublin, Ireland. One of the children's injuries are 
 
 said to be serious. A man in his 50s is the sole person of interest. He was detained at the scene. Police say, at this time they think it was a 
 
 standalone attack, but they're keeping an open mind as they investigate his motive. We'll stay on top of that story for you as soon as there are any 
 
 more developments, of course, we will bring it to you.
 
New York City's mayor has been formally accused of sexual assault, that is according to a court document filed on Wednesday. The accuser says, Eric 
 
 Adams assaulted her in 1993 while they both worked for the city. The lawsuit has been filed under New York's Adult Survivors Act, which is set 
 
 to expire Friday. Adams denied the allegations earlier. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ERIC ADAMS, NEW YORK MAYOR:  It's absolutely not true. You know, I would never do anything to harm anyone.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  While two major names in entertainment are also being accused of sexual assault under the same act. Actor Jamie Foxx and singer Axl Rose 
 
 have both been sued in New York. Foxx is accused of sexual assault in 2015 and Rose in 1989. Rose denies the charges against him. CNN has reached out 
 
 to Jamie Foxx for comment.
 
Keeping an eye on those -- both those stories is CNN's Jean Casarez. Jean, just talk us through, first of all, the accusation on both these cases.
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, there's a flurry against high- profile defendants that are coming into the New York Supreme Court right now. You just mentioned the mayor, I think that is the latest one. And this 
 
 is a summons, it was civil court, and the allegation is that it happened 30 years ago.
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
Don't know the person's name. She's a Jane Doe, but alleges she was a city employee. And she's saying that Mayor Adams sexually assaulted her, 
 
 battered her. There was employment discrimination, retaliation, intentional infliction of emotional distress. She is asking for a minimum of $5 
 
 million. And you saw the response already on the air right there during his Thanksgiving remarks today about these allegations.
 
Jamie Foxx, that is in regard to a 2015 incident, alleged incident, that the accuser is saying happened at a restaurant in New York City. That he 
 
 began to touch her without her consent on a rooftop area of a restaurant. It was a bar and restaurant up on the top of the restaurant itself. We did 
 
 just get a response from Jamie Foxx's people. I want to read this to you.
 
SOARES:  Yes.
 
CASAREZ:  Says, the alleged incident, it never happened. In 2020, this individual filed a nearly identical lawsuit in Brooklyn. That case was 
 
 dismissed shortly thereafter. The claims are no more viable today than they were then. We are confident they will be dismissed again. And once they 
 
 are, Mr. Foxx intends to pursue a claim for malicious prosecution against this person and her attorneys for filing this frivolous action.
 
And lastly, Axl Rose, the lead singer for Guns and Roses. This is a high- profile plaintiff. Sheila Kennedy, she was a Penthouse Pet in 1993. She claims that in 1989, she was in a hotel room with Axl Rose, other people 
 
 were there too. She said that she consensually kissed him, but then it became something of an absolute violent sexual experience and that she did 
 
 not consent to that.
 
Now, his attorney says in a statement, simply put, this incident never happened. Though one doesn't deny the possibility of a fan photo, Mr. Rose 
 
 has no recollection of ever meeting her as a fictional allegation. This will proceed now through civil courts here in New York City.
 
SOARES:  Jean Casarez, appreciate it. Thank you very much.
 
CASAREZ:  Thank you.
 
SOARES:  We are going to take a short break. We'll be back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOARES:  Well, today marks the celebration of Thanksgiving in the United States. There had been concern after an explosion at the U.S.-Canada border 
 
 on Wednesday about the safety of large events. Brynn Gingrass has more in New York at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The iconic Macy's Day parade, 97 years this has been going on without a hitch and no different this year. 
 
 Listen, police say, there is no credible threat to the city or to this spectacular event. And we have seen a number of security measures taken 
 
 place. As you can see, there are police officers lined up every few feet behind me. We've seen bomb sniffing dogs walking the parade route, 
 
 sanitation trucks blocking the streets coming to the parade route. So, many measures that we see and then, of course, ones we don't see.
 
We know law enforcement has been on heightened alert ever since the war broke out in the Middle East. But again, this is such an iconic event that 
 
 it's no different. And all it comes down to, of course, these men and women working to make sure the 3.5 million people that come out to this parade 
 
 just have a ton of fun.
 
Are you guys having fun?
 
Such a great time. Happy Thanksgiving to you. I'm Brynn Gingrass, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  They look very happy, but they also look very cold. If you are celebrating, Happy Thanksgiving to you. Plenty for us all to be thankful 
 
 for. That does it for me for tonight. Do stay right here. "Quest Means Business with Richard Quest" is up next. I shall see you tomorrow. Bye-bye.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:00:00]
 
END