Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Bills: Buff Hamlin in Critical Condition After Cardiac Arrest; Ohio Killings Suspect Expected to Waive Extradition at Hearing; Russia Admits 63 Soldiers Killed in Strike on Barracks; Brazil Bids Final Farewell to Pele with 24-Hour Wake. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired January 03, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back. More on the developing story that we're following from the NFL. The Buffalo Bills say that Damar Hamlin is in critical condition after suffering a cardiac arrest on the field. 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: He collapsed just moments after making a tackle in the first quarter of the game on Monday. It was a distressing scene that left many people in shock including former NFL players. Here's how some of them reacted.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EPHRAIM SALAAM, FORMER NFL PLAYER: When I saw that young man fall to the ground the way he did, it felt like my soul had left my body. This is the importance of player safety, player mental health. It's not just about the physical injuries that we witness, it's about the mental health. 
 
DONTE STALLWORTH, FORMER NFL PLAYER: I've never seen anyone have CPR administered to them on the practice field or game field, so that's when I became concerned and more concerned. And I saw the players faces. I mean, half the players were crying, both on the Bengals and the Bills. And to see their faces, you know, it just underscored the severity of it that we couldn't see because they were all crowded around. It's just devastating and I just pray he's OK. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Let's get back to our expert panel. emergency room specialists Dr. Anthony Cardillo, and lifestyle and sports analyst Eric Mitchell. Doctor, I mean, you're the impartial person here in terms of sport. A lot of people talking about the violence of the game becoming too violent or the players are too big or, you know, it's just becoming too tough. What's your view as a doctor? 
 
DR. ANTHONY CARDILLO, EMERGENCY ROOM SPECIALIST: Oh, boy, this is a rough question. I'm sure my two younger boys aren't going to be happy with the answer as most people in America. Because it's such a part of our culture whether it's football, whether it's hockey. There are a lot of sports that are very dangerous. I will tell you, however, the majority of these cases, this Commotio
 
 Cordis, this acute chest trauma that induces cardiac arrest, we see it a lot -- not a lot but we see it most in baseball believe it or not. It's when the pitcher gets hit with that ball traveling at a high rate of speed into the anterior chest. If you look at the literature, that's the majority of these cases as related to sports, it's in baseball. 
 
We have a handful of cases every year that we see so obviously if it can happen a few times, it can happen many more times. But I'd have to agree that football is becoming very dangerous. A lot more dangerous than perhaps 20 or 30 years ago. The players are a lot more sophisticated. The equipment is also being pared down more and more. But it's almost becoming more violent, so to speak, when they're playing. And we know this. 
 
It's just a matter of making sure the players are safe, whether it's concussive injury, whether it's neurologic and spinal cord injury and now whether it's chest injury with cardiac events. You have to look carefully at how we can protect these players. I don't think it's reasonable at this juncture to start talking about dismantling football as part of our American culture but certainly to think how can we prevent our players, looking at the disease entities that injure them, and then doing the best we can to, you know, just institute policies, procedures, protective measures to keep them as safe as possible. 
 
NOBILO: Eric, when we were speaking a short while ago you were mentioning how what has happened to Damar Hamlin is uniting fans and also America to some extent because sport can do that for people, but what more are we learning about Damar as a man. Max was mentioning the charity drive which he started in 2020 to buy toys for local children in his community. What are we learning about his approach to the game and to life? 
 
ERIC MITCHELL, PRESIDENT, LIFE FLIP MEDIA: What I heard -- and this comes from Pittsburgh natives just like Damar. He represents that entire community and he takes it serious just like you see other football players from that area. Damar is just like all of them. He came into the league in his second year, played every game this season and he gives back off the field. He's not one of these football players that are around, that are ego driven, forget where they come from. Damar is the opposite. 
 
His mom was in the stands tonight and as anybody -- I'm a momma's boy. So, I can tell you, that is something significant that his mom was there. And I guess that's a blessing in disguise. At least she was there to be in the ambulance when he went through it. But what we've learned about Damar is how he gives back. He's well liked throughout the league and in his community, he gives back. I think that's an important thing when you look at football players don't forget where they come from. You see this from other athletes in other leagues but we're talking about Damar. That's something that's amazing about him, and such a young athlete at the age of 24. He already figured it out. Got to give back to my community and make sure I don't forget where I came from. NOBILO: Eric Mitchell in Dallas and Dr. Anthony Cardillo in Los
 
 Angeles, thank you both. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
And still ahead on this show, we'll have much more on the health condition of Damar Hamlin. We'll tell you how fans are supporting the player through an online service that he set up. 
 
FOSTER: Plus, the suspect in the killing of four Idaho University students will appear in a Pennsylvania court today. Details report next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Well, we are following news out of Cincinnati where Buffalo Bills' safety Damar Hamlin is in critical condition after collapsing on the field during the Monday Night Football game against the Bengals. 
 
NOBILO: The Bills tweeted that Hamlin suffered a cardiac arrest following a hit during the first quarter of the game. That's when Hamlin tackled Bengals wide receiver T. Higgins. The Bills say that Hamlin's heartbeat was restored on the field before he was transferred by ambulance on the hospital but he's sedated and receiving treatment. And here's how one NFL executive described the situation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NFL, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FOOTBALL OPERATIONS: Obviously, we saw the coaches and players and frankly there are those that would tuned into the game all traumatized.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
FOSTER: Well, Hamlin joined the Bills in 2021 and has played every game this season. Fans wanting to show support for Hamlin have made more than 100,000 donations to a fundraiser he set up for the holidays. 
 
NOBILO: Hamlin's GoFundMe was reported on Twitter after his injury. It's a Christmas toy drive aimed at bringing joy to kids in need. 
 
FOSTER: In this is footage of him meeting fans and posing for photos at a toy drive event just last month. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAMAR HAMLIN, BUFFALO BILLS SAFETY: It's something I've always been into. Does he has have Mac? Something I've been doing at my home in Pittsburgh. For three years I've been doing a toy drive. So, just being able to extend it to Buffalo now is something I love doing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Since Hamlin's injury, donations have ballooned more than $3.1 million. And we'll keep an eye on how much it's raised. 
 
Now the suspect in the killing of four Idaho University students will be in a Pennsylvania court today. 
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
His attorney says that he plans to waive extradition which will expedite his return to Idaho, where he faces four counts of first degree murder. CNN's Jean Casarez has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The man who police say killed four college students, then weeks later drove cross country, tracked by police will go back to Idaho to face charges.
 
CHIEF JAMES FRY, MOSCOW, IDAHO, POLICE: Detectives arrested 28-year- old Bryan Christopher Kohberger.
 
CASAREZ (voice-over): Ethan Chapin, Xana Kernodle, Madison Mogen and Kaylee Goncalves were stabbed to death November 13 in this Moscow, Idaho home.
 
FRY: This was a very complex and extensive case.
 
CASAREZ (voice-over): DNA was recovered at the crime scene. A source with knowledge of the investigation tells CNN the suspect was identified through genetic genealogy, a process where DNA from an investigation is compared to a public database, potentially leading to a family member of a suspect. Kohberger's lawyer says his father flew to Washington state to bring him to northeast Pennsylvania for the holidays.
 
JASON LABAR, CHIEF PUBLIC DEFENDER, MONROE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA: His father actually went out there and they drove home together.
 
CASAREZ (voice-over): They drove his white Hyundai Elantra, a car matching that description was in the immediate area of the killings, police said. CNN confirmed they stopped at a repair shop in Pennsylvania, where some work was done on the vehicle.
 
LABAR: I believe he arrived somewhere around the 17 of December.
 
CASAREZ (voice-over): Jason LaBar, the chief public defender from Monroe County, Pennsylvania, is representing Kohberger until he is extradited. A law enforcement source says the FBI watched him for four days before he was arrested.
 
LABAR: FBI, local police, Idaho state troopers were at their house at approximately 3:00, a.m. knocking on the door and announcing themselves to enter.
 
CASAREZ (voice-over): Kohberger graduated in May from DeSales University in Pennsylvania with a master's in criminal justice and was pursuing a doctorate at Washington State University, only about 7 miles away from the University of Idaho. CASAREZ: He has to appreciate the seriousness of what is happening right now.
 
LABAR: Oh, absolutely. He is very intelligent. In my hour conversation with him, that comes off, I can tell that. And he understands where we are right now.
 
CASAREZ (voice-over): While in college at DeSales, Kohberger asked ex- cons to participate in a study on crime. 
 
This study seeks to understand the story behind your most recent criminal offense, with emphasis on your thoughts and feelings throughout your experience, he wrote on an online message board.
 
HAYDEN STINCHFIELD, STUDENT: This person that had been, you know, kind of grading my papers was, you know, allegedly does this like, horrible murder.
 
CASAREZ (voice-over): Kohberger was working as a teaching assistant in Washington, and one student claims his demeanor and his strict grading changed after the murders.
 
STINCHFIELD: He started grading everybody just 100s. And now obviously, he seems like he was probably pretty preoccupied.
 
CASAREZ (voice-over): For victims' families, this arrest is a step toward closure and a chance to see Kohberger in court.
 
STEVE GONCALVES, VICTIM'S FATHER: It's a little bit of hope. Things are moving in the right direction. There's a lot of time of not knowing. And we're going to definitely look this guy and look him in his eyes. He's going to have to deal with this. 
 
CASAREZ: Defendant Bryan Kohberger will be in a courtroom here in northeastern Pennsylvania Tuesday at 3:30 in the afternoon. Following that at a time that is not known at this point he will be transported back to the state of Idaho to face a judge for those four counts of first degree murder. 
 
Jean Casarez, CNN, Monroe County, Pennsylvania. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: We're learning more about the man accused of attacking three New York police officers with a machete on New Year's Eve. 19-year-old Trevor Bickford was formally arrested on Monday and is awaiting arraignment. 
 
NOBILO: Law enforcement sources says a diary he left at the scene of the attack is giving them insight into his motivations. They say that he wrote of joining the Taliban and criticized his brother in the military for entering, quote, the ranks of my enemy. Bickford was put on an FBI watch list after relatives reported concerning behavior but managed to avoid detection since he traveled by train to New York. 
 
FOSTER: Still ahead, we'll get one more update on Buffalo Bills safety Damar Hamlin who suffered a cardiac arrest during Monday night's game against the Cincinnati Bengals. 
 
NOBILO: Plus, a missile strike takes out dozens of Russian soldiers -- maybe even hundreds in eastern Ukraine. A live report just ahead.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
FOSTER: Russia is acknowledging dozens of its troops have been killed in one of the deadliest attacks in the war in Ukraine. The Russian defense ministry says U.S. made HIMARS rockets hit a temporary barracks in the Russian occupied Donetsk region killing 63 soldiers. 
 
NOBILO: Ukraine is not claiming responsibility for the strike. But the Ukrainian military initially said around 400 soldiers were killed. But now they say that number is being clarified. 
 
FOSTER: And Nada is here with us. We don't know the numbers, do we. But it is very unusual for the Russians to issue a figure. 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Absolutely, and then is impossible for us to independently verify that figure. But we are hearing different messages from the two sides. As you said that we heard earlier coming from Ukrainian military officials that this figure was likely in the hundreds. They say there now working to clarify this. 
 
The Russians pegged it around just over 60. Now it is likely to be far higher than that. And we've already heard from the former defense chief of the Donetsk region. Who has said that there are still Russian soldiers who are unaccounted for. They haven't been added to the official death toll. And as we've seen in the past the Russian Armed Forces, the Kremlin in general has been keen to downplay the death toll figure. 
 
What we have heard at this stage from the Ukrainian side, was that while they are working to clarify that figure around the scheduled death toll, at the time of this attack, up to 10 units of Russian military equipment in the area has been confirmed, to have been either destroyed completely or at least damaged following that attack. 
 
NOBILO: And Nada, during the break you were telling us something interesting. That the aftermath of this attack has actually led to criticism within Russia or by Russians of the Russian military command. 
 <br>[04:50:02]
 
BASHIR: Yes, absolutely. I mean, we've heard that criticism in the past from the Western intelligence officials around the setbacks of the Russian Armed Forces. Now are hearing from one Russian legislature who's calling for criminal liability not directed towards the Ukrainian Armed Forces or officials but rather directed at the Russian military command. He says there shouldn't have been a scale that size of Russian troops and soldiers concentrated in such a small space. Essentially making them an easy target for Ukraine. But interestingly we've also been hearing from pro-Russian bloggers
 
 who've taken to Telegram and social media to question the use of sloppy tactics by the Russian Armed Forces essentially describing the Russian military command as being incompetent. So clearly, we are seeing a shift there in the sort of rhetoric that is being used from pro-Russian voices around the Russian government, around the Russian Armed Forces. 
 
Now of course the concern now as we've heard in the past from President Zelenskyy, from the Ukrainian military officials is that when we do see these substantial losses being faced by Russia -- 
 
FOSTER: There could be repercussions. 
 
BASHIR: -- exactly, a retaliatory attack. That's the warning we've heard in the past. And of course, we did hear that warning previously over an intensification of that attack in the new year. President Zelenskyy gave his nightly address yesterday. He said that he is expecting a prolonged attack by Russia using Iranian made drones. He says the aim really here is to exhaust the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian air defenses and also of course, the energy sector, which has been a huge target throughout this. 
 
FOSTER: And morale, you know, it's an attack morale, isn't it, if you keep attacking the infrastructure of the general public. 
 
BASHIR: Yes, absolutely. I mean, over the last few days, we've seen that intensification of Russia's bombardment across the country. Now that wasn't unanticipated. We heard from the Ukrainian military officials as well as Western intelligence sources that there were expectations of a potential intensification in the new year. And that's certainly what we have seen. We saw that in the closing of the year as well. 
 
Morale, of course, in the Russian Armed Forces we've heard in the past has been low. There have been questions around support being provided there. We did see President Putin around the new year attempting to boost morale celebrating with soldiers, of course. But how long can that last? Of course, Russia has been facing these setbacks for more than ten months. Now it has not gone as swiftly or smoothly as President Putin would have expected. 
 
FOSTER: Nada, thank you very much indeed. 
 
Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI is lying in state for a second day at the Vatican. 
 
NOBILO: The public viewing now underway inside St. Peter's Basilica. The former pontiff died on New Year's Eve at the age of 95. 
 
FOSTER: Vatican Police say about 65,000 people paid their respects to Benedict on Monday. 
 
NOBILO: Also paying their respects the Italian president and prime minister. The former pontiff's funeral will be held on Thursday and will be led by the current pope, Pope Francis. And in the day ahead, the late football legend Pele will be laid to
 
 rest in the Brazilian city where he began his career. It will follow an emotional 24 hour wake that has drawn thousands of mourners from around the country. Stefano has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST (voice-over): When Pele's body arrived in Santos, he received a homecoming worthy of a true legend. His fans were already standing in line outside his old football ground, some of them waiting overnight just to see him one last time. Inside the Urbano Caldeira Stadium he was treated like a Brazilian head of state. An open casket, the body exposed and a somber song was sung by Pele himself to mark the historic moment and the wait in line, emotions run high. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): It's a mixture of feelings. On one side sadness, at least for me, but also a lot of emotions because well, it's Pele, the biggest player in the world and especially my club, Santos. I've actually been emotional. I don't know how to explain it. I think I'm going to cry. 
 
POZZEBON (voice-over): Pele was an icon for all generations. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): For me he was a human being that became great by staying humbled. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): He's a distinguished person in examples, an examples for his effort, for his professionalism in football that people nowadays seldom see. People think a lot about money. That was a time when there wasn't money. He earned money after years of working. He's an example to be followed. The youth should follow him. 
 
POZZEBON (voice-over): Santos, the club that launched his career, said about 17,000 people paid their respects in a mere question of hours and the line reach several blocks. But on the main stage no moment was more touching than Pele's own wife giving him one last gift. 
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
POZZEBON: Standing in the stadium you really feel the true size of the Pele's legend and at a time that the official Pele, the football star with his casket wrapped in a Brazilian flag and escorted by a guard of honor. Outside the average fan saying a last good-bye to a man who always stays true to his humble roots and loyal to the city of Santos. 
 
POZZEBON (voice-over): And for those who share decades of memories with him, even this farewell will not be forever. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Pele will never die.
 
POZZEBON (voice-over): Pele will never die, Pele will always be with us.
 
Stefano Pozzebon, CNN, Santos, Brazil. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Amazing scenes there. Our top story though this hour, Buffalo Bills football player Damar Hamlin is in critical condition after suffering a cardiac arrest on the field during Monday's games between the Bills and Bengals in Cincinnati. 
 
NOBILO: His heartbeat was restored on the field and he was rushed to a nearby hospital -- according to the Bills organization. The defensive back collapsed after a hard tackle earlier in the game. The game is being postponed due to his medical emergency. And in a statement the NFL said our thoughts are with Damar and the Buffalo Bills. 
 
FOSTER: The entire NFL community is expressing concern for Damar Hamlin.
 
Arizona Cardinals defensive end J.J. Watt tweeted, quote: The game is not important. Damar Hamlin's life is important. Please be OK, please. 
 
NOBILO: Kansas Chiefs' quarterback Patrick Mahomes said: Praying hard. Please be OK, man. 
 
And Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker T.J. Watt tweeted: Absolutely speechless. Please pull through, Damar. 
 
CNN will have much more on the story on "EARLY START" coming up. 
 
FOSTER: Our thoughts with everyone affected. Thank you for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster. 
 
NOBILO: And I'm Bianca Nobilo. Stay here on with CNN.
 <br>[05:00:00]