Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Turkey and Syria Continue Recovery Efforts after Earthquake Devastates Parts of Both Countries; Pennsylvania Senator John Fetterman Taken to Hospital after Feeling Lightheaded; House Lawmakers Receive Classified Briefing about Chinese Surveillance Balloon that Floated over U.S.; Twitter Executives Testify before House Oversight Committee about Hunter Biden Laptop Story; Ex-Twitter Execs Deny FBI Played Role In Hunter Biden Laptop Decision; Biden On 2024: I Intend To Run, But Haven't Yet Made My Decision; Biden: U.S. Relations With China Haven't Taken Hit After Spy Balloon. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired February 09, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:00:36]
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR:  Good morning. A tragedy of unimaginable scale. More than 17,000 people have now died as time is running out to save survivors in the earthquake. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR:  Breaking overnight, Pennsylvania Senator John Fetterman, who is still recovering from a stroke, has been admitted to the hospital after he felt lightheaded. We have an update on his condition. 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR:  In a new interview, President Biden addressing concerns about his age and why he hasn't yet med made a decision about whether he's run for re-election. 
 
LEMON:  Right now, lawmakers getting a classified briefing on the Chinese spy balloon, and there's new CNN reporting about who knew what and when. 
 
COLLINS:  The "p" word, the "b" word, and the "a" word have all been entered into the congressional word as the Republican efforts to expose those at the top of Twitter has taken a surprising turn. 
 
CNN THIS MORNING starts right now. 
 
LEMON:  I'm glad you guys could join us. I want everyone to keep this number in mind -- 17,000, 17,000, not just talking numbers, I should say that's people, right? And that's where we are going to begin. We begin in Turkey and Syria where 17,000 victims, that death toll is climbing. It has been more than three days since the catastrophic earthquake struck. And time is running out for anyone that might still be alive and trapped in the rubble in frigid weather right now. Rescue teams are using microphones to listen for voices and any signs of life. Listen to that. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(SHOUTING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON:  When they pull people out alive, there are cheers after the quiet of just listening for people for hours. We are now past the 72- hour window of time that experts say is critical for survival. Nick Paton Walsh is going to begin our coverage. He's on the ground in Turkey. Nick, good morning to you. Take us there, please. 
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR:  Don, here in Antakya, probably one of the biggest cities to have been impacted by this earthquake, the devastation is utterly staggering. You can see just behind me what the rubble has done and also the grim toll that has slowly been building over the last hour. The bodies that are being brought out, one just behind me before, literally as you were speaking, Don, brought from the wreckage. 
 
There are moments when rescue workers run in desperately hoping that the noises or that the body they have seep may emerge indeed alive, but I have to tell you so far today, because of that hour you were talking about fast diminishing, that is less and less the case. 
 
And indeed, the devastation is startling. These streets of apartment blocks, some standing unscathed, perhaps with cracks, others tilted at an angle, others completely destroyed. In fact, we went to one street where bizarrely it seemed that every building in that had lost its bottom three floors, but indeed sunk down and was still standing. In one of those buildings, there was a gain, a rush of medical workers, a moment of elation with people thinking possibly within that building they may have found somebody alive in some of the cavernous spaces that occasionally get caused when rubble collapses in a certain way. 
 
But sadly, minutes later, they pulled out an eight-year-old girl who had indeed perished. Her mother there to put her on to the ambulance, move her away. But these bodies over here as they stand have some of them marked with owner identified, others are simply are going to join the large numbers here of people whose relatives may also have perished as well. 
 
But a city of this size, Antakya, often heavily populated with Syrian refugees, has been hit incredibly hard. And the scale at which we see streets leveled is startling. The anger against the government palpable, too. Many angry at how fast the government didn't get here on the first day. Others angry at the culture of getting rich by construction which led to some of the shoddy practices which clearly led to some of these buildings coming down. But the numbers, Don, just growing fast, and it is desperately heartbreaking to see endless bodies brought out on blankets from the rubble here. Don? 
 
LEMON:  Nick Paton Walsh, thank you very much. Reporting this morning from Turkey. 
 <br>[08:05:00] HARLOW:  Senator John Fetterman is back in the hospital this morning after a health scare. We're told he felt lightheaded and doctors have been running tests to make sure he didn't have another stroke. He did have a stroke last year, you'll remember, when he was on the campaign trail. He refused to quit. He ended up flipping Pennsylvania Senate seat for Democrats. 
 
Let's bring in our congressional correspondent Jessica Dean on Capitol Hill. Jess, we just saw Dana talking to him right before the State of the Union. He seemed in good health, good spirits. What can you tell us about his condition this morning? 
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, Poppy. We know that he's still in the hospital. Right now, they are running additional tests. The positive news is that his office is saying that doctors are saying they don't believe there has been any new stroke, but they wanted to keep him here overnight to run some more tests, keep him under observation. 
 
Let me walk you through exactly what they said happened, and then we can talk more about it. His office releasing a statement saying, "Toward the end of the Senate Democratic retreat," which was happening in Washington, D.C., "Senator John Fetterman began feeling lightheaded. He then left and called his staff who picked him up and drove him to the George Washington University hospital. Initial tests did not show evidence of a new stroke, but doctors are running more tests, and John is remaining overnight for observation." 
 
And Poppy, as you mentioned, of course, he did suffer that stroke back in May. That's when he was running for the primary. He actually won that primary in the hospital. He was in the hospital for nine, 10 days, and then of course had to recover. And we heard him. He would talk about slurring his words, missing his words on the campaign trail. 
 
And as you mentioned, I have seen him up here since then. He seemed to be going about business as usual. We're hoping to get an update. I've reached out to his office this morning but so far have not heard back. But again, as far as we know right now, he remains in the hospital. They are still running those tests. 
 
HARLOW:  We are all rooting for him, all thinking about his wife and his family right now. Jess, thanks very much. 
 
LEMON:  Reports of multiple tornados creating havoc in the south. I want you to take a look at this, a trail of destruction following a severe storm in Louisiana. The sheriff's office there says that multiple homes were damaged in Tangipahoa Parish and powerful winds flipped over a mobile home. In Mississippi valley, more than 2 million people were under tornado alerts on Wednesday. The storms are expected to head towards the Midwest today bringing snow. Kaitlan? 
 
COLLINS:  Also this morning, happening right now, House lawmakers are now in a classified briefing about the Chinese surveillance balloon we've all been talking about, the one that floated through U.S. airspace across the United States before it was finally shot down on the South Carolina coast over the weekend. Later this morning senators will have their turn to get their classified briefing with officials from the Biden administration. 
 
This all comes as we are getting new details about what U.S. officials knew weeks ago about the suspected balloon after the Defense Department sent out an internal report that is known as a tipper through classified channels. The memo made clear that a flying object was headed towards U.S. territory, but it wasn't flagged as urgent at this time. Now this has, of course, become a political flashpoint with Republicans who are criticizing the way the White House responded to all of this. 
 
CNN's Natasha Bertrand has this reporting. Natasha, so this starts out as a tipper. It's not flagged as urgent. What does that mean about how officials found out about this? 
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  Yes, Kaitlan, so just taking a step back here, this was the day before the balloon entered U.S. airspace over Alaska. The Defense Intelligence Agency did send what's known as a tipper, essentially a report that flags foreign objects to government channels. This was disseminated across government channels, classified channels. And essentially anyone who wanted to read it had access to it. 
 
But because it was not flagged as urgent, it was not really briefed to the highest level. And it was not flagged as urgent because the U.S. has seen balloons like this before, right. We have learned a lot in the last several days about what the U.S. actually knows about this fleet of balloons and the surveillance program that they are apparently a part of. And they believed at the time that even though it was probably headed towards Alaska, it was not an urgent threat. It did not pose a military or a physical threat to the United States and, therefore, it seemed like the best course of action would just be to monitor it and potentially even collect intelligence about it. 
 
But when it did enter Alaskan airspace on January 28th, officials started noticing something odd, which is that it took a sharp downward turn over Canada and then into Montana. And that is when things started getting serious, Kaitlan. 
 
COLLINS:  Yes, remarkable. And I know all this is going to be looked at because Republicans say they are going to launch investigations into this. Natasha, great reporting on your end, thank you. 
 
HARLOW:  Yesterday House Republicans grilled former Twitter executives getting them to admit the FBI wanted Twitter wanted to help Joe Biden ahead of the 2020 election by suppressing that Hunter Biden laptop story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. JIM COMER, (R-KY) HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:  Many Americans did not know about it because of a coordinated cover-up by big tech, the swamp, and mainstream use. 
 
REP. NANCY MACE, (R-SC) HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:  Twitter was basically a subsidiary of the FBI. 
 
REP. JIM JORDAN, (R-OH) HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:  I think you guys wanted to take it down. I think you guys got played by the FBI. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  But witnesses at the house oversight committee hearing pushed back. Actually, a former Twitter employee did say she heard of the federal government trying to suppress speech on the site, but she said it was the Trump White House that made that request. The former president reportedly contacted Twitter to ask that they remove a derogatory tweet from model Chrissy Teigen. The former Twitter employee read the tweet in this congressional. I want to warn everyone, if you have kids, turn the TV down, turn the radio down, because, you'll hear why. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MAXWELL FROST, (D-FL) HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:  Earlier you testified about a 2019 tweet that was about President Trump, and I think it's from Miss Teigen. What was the tweet about? 
 
ANIKA COLLIER NAVAROLI, FORMER TWITTER EMPLOYEE:  Would you like me give the direct quote? 
 
FROST:  Yes. 
 
NAVAROLI:  Please excuse my language. This is a direct quote. But Chrissy Teigen referred to Donald Trump as a "pussy ass bitch." 
 
FROST:  OK. Free speech. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  Kara Swisher is with us, host of "On with Kara Swisher." Quite an intro. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
HARLOW:  And NYU Stern School of Business marketing professor and host of "The Prof G Podcast" Scott Galloway, and the host of the best joint podcast around, "The Pivot." Hey, guys, good morning. 
 
LEMON:  Did you see Scott's face? 
 
HARLOW:  I didn't. But I do want to get to the substance of this and move on from what was put on the congressional record, though. I mean, what a moment, Kara. This happened but not the way you thought it happened.
 
KARA SWISHER, HOST, "ON WITH KARA SWISHER" AND "PIVOT" PODCASTS:  That is correct. I am glad we got to the bottom of this nonsense. This is ridiculous. What has been shown here is that Twitter was not really pressured but they were contacted by everybody who wanted to influence what they were doing. But there was no conspiracy here. There was no anything except people trying to gain purchase. And in the case of this Hunter Biden thing, they denied it. This is not -- there is no -- they denied it. 
 
And so I think this was a waste of taxpayer money. It's a lot of nonsense. It's a lot of allegations that they can't prove. And so hopefully they will move along from this one and move on to another nonsensical idea or conspiracy theory around these people. But I thought the executives did a great job. 
 
LEMON:  If you look at -- it wasn't just -- they are trying to make it out to be some sort of leftwing conspiracy or what have you. But it was actually Trump who was trying to get Twitter, and it looks like successfully got them to change their rules as it relates to -- 
 
SWISHER:  Sure.
 
LEMON:  Yes, right.
 
SWISHER:  Yes. They tolerated him. This is well known. It was out in the open. There is no conspiracy here. He abused the rules of Twitter over and over again, and they let him do it. And that's pretty much it. But there is no conspiracy of a bunch of -- a cabal of people deciding things like this. They are just trying to run their company, and they have a difficult customer, and they let him do what he wanted. And that's pretty much what came out of this hearing. 
 
LEMON:  Just to clarify, because their policy was to, if you said something like go back to your own country or something like that, then they took that language out to appease, right, so the president could get away with tweeting some things. 
 
SWISHER:  Yes. So, OK. 
 
COLLINS:  OK, but Scott, this has been the subject of so many conversations I've had with Republicans and Trump officials that there was this conspiracy. James Comer, who is the House Oversight chair that we say there was saying the other day that the FBI and Twitter were colluding on this. We said there is no evidence of that, there is no evidence that there is any directive they got on the Hunter Biden story, and now we see it was actually Trump people who were also asking to remove tweets because of what it was saying about the president of the United States. So does this end this whole saga, or what is your prediction? 
 
SCOTT GALLOWAY, PROFESSOR OF MARKETING, NYU STERN SCHOOL OF BUSINESS: The only conspiracy here is a conspiracy of dunces that is our government right now as reflected in this hearing. This communicates to every Chinese official, send more balloons. These people are idiots. 
 
First off, it begins from a place of idiocy because a private company has no fidelity to the First Amendment. It's like, it's as if are you going to have Ted Cruz on later today? Oh, no, you are censoring the government. 
 
The notion that the FBI, the only real targeted assertion that they really need to defend was that the they coordinated with the FBI. They didn't coordinate with the FBI. As a matter of fact, if there is any censoring going on, if there's any bias, it's towards letting the president organize an insurrection on their platform and that they weren't being as diligent as they should have been around censoring certain content. 
 
There is a certain both side-ism -- I do believe the Twitter executives probably lean progressive, and as a result they engage in both side-ism and let content and people on the right get away with things they wouldn't let people on the left. But it's a private company. They get to decide this. 
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Let's take a moment and listen to what one of the three Twitter Executives testified about that, Scott, and about the decision on the Hunter Biden laptop story, and who it was, and what -- or was not influenced by. Here it was.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOEL ROTH, FORMER TWITTER GLOBAL HEAD OF TRUST &amp; SAFETY: I believe Twitter erred in this case, because we wanted to avoid repeating the mistakes of 2016.
 
JAMES BAKER, FORMER TWITTER DEPUTY GENERAL COUNSEL: I'm aware of no unlawful collusion with or direction from any government agency or political campaign on how Twitter should have handled the Hunter Biden laptop situation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: Kara, it was your interview with that first executive -- 
 
KARA SWISHER, HOST, ON WITH KARA SWISHER &amp; PIVOT PODCAST: Yes.
 
HARLOW: -- where he actually broke the news and you really pressed him on. But you guys were wrong. Essentially, what I took from that was, we're human, we were wrong, but we were protecting against the warning of disinformation, right? I'd like to debunk -- 
 
SWISHER: That's right.
 
HARLOW: -- a -- something that's just not a fact that really powerful Republican lawmakers have been stating as fact. They keep saying, Kara, that, you know, Twitter -- that the FBI paid all this money to Twitter to do things the FBI wanted. That is not how it works. Can you explain -- 
 
SWISHER: No.
 
HARLOW: -- the facts?
 
SWISHER: It's not how it works. It didn't happen. They're making it up. They're lying is what they're doing. And it's not true. They're just saying it for the cameras. And this guy in particular, Yoel Roth, was very forthright about a mistake. And what they did is they corrected it the minute they made it. Now, it was a stupid mistake, absolutely, and they shouldn't have done that. I've -- I thought it was a bad call. They made a lot of bad calls, including letting President Trump go on and on. But this is a company that can make bad calls. 
 
And that particular executive got attacked by the right wing, and he had to -- he had to hide. He was under death threats. And, you know, I think they tried very hard to be fair, it's almost impossible. And to then to gin up conspiracies is -- on top of it is -- it's shameful to have done that to these people. That said, you know, the twit -- they seem to think Twitter is a public utility. And it is a private company that can do as it pleases, even if you don't like it. But the bias was on the side of making sure conservatives weren't tweaked by them. I think that's what came out of this hearing.
 
HARLOW: Final word, Scott?
 
GALLOWAY: You know, Kara is exactly right. We engaged in bothsidesism and the media because many of us are cognizant of the fact that we might lean progressive if we live in a city or we work in media. And as a result, I think we overcorrect. The travesty of the scandal here is that we let a man coordinate an insurrection against the United States on their platform. If there's anything here that we should really be looking at in terms of putting in place safeguards, or how this -- how this company made terrible decisions, it really teared at the fabric of America.
 
It was the fact that we decided to get a bunch of people together, let them organize, riot and then in a violent takeover of our capital, embarrass the nation and set us back probably decades reputationly (PH). That's the scandal here. And that's something that Republicans weren't expecting that they could -- they would talk about as much. This was a shameful hearing, made us look stupid.
 
HARLOW: Thank you.
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR: I think you both being -- the brilliant -- and lot of important points made, but I think the -- one of the most important made is that, you don't have the right to be honest, it's not a right to be on Twitter. It's not a right -- 
 
SWISHER: Yes. That's exactly right.
 
LEMON: -- to appear on any media platform. That's a -- it's a privilege, right? They get to do what they want. They get to decide the rules. And that does not mean --
 
SWISHER: Right.
 
LEMON: -- that you're censoring people because you have certain rules. It's just the way it is.
 
SWISHER: Yes.
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
SWISHER: Yes. And also -- but we did get that tweet onto the Congressional Record. It's really a great day for America. I mean, honestly, it's so ridiculous. So, yes.
 
LEMON: It is. Well, get ready for more.
 
HARLOW: Thank you.
 
SWISHER: (INAUDIBLE) Yes.
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: It's a really good point, Poppy, about the --
 
SWISHER: Thank you.
 
HARLOW: Thanks, guys.
 
COLLINS: -- because I look into that about the FBI is required to reimburse companies --
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
COLLINS: -- for the cost they get --
 
HARLOW: That's right.
 
COLLINS: -- to satisfy subpoenas.
 
HARLOW: That's right.
 
COLLINS: And that Republicans have used it --
 
HARLOW: That's right.
 
COLLINS: -- to say they were paying Twitter.
 
HARLOW: That's right.
 
COLLINS: It's down a rabbit hole. But it really is something that they repeat a lot.
 
LEMON: No, it's a good point. I think it's a very good point. But I could go on and on and on with this segment, but we have to move on. But it's -- we need more of this to explain to people the madness, as Kara and Scott pointed out, that the American people are going to have to deal with, and you're spending taxpayer money for grudges and grievances from the prior --
 
COLLINS: And let me tell you something?
 
LEMON: -- administration -- supporters of the prior administration.
 
COLLINS: Not all Republicans agree with it.
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
COLLINS: They want to investigate other things that they think actually has more traction and would be more meaningful.
 
HARLOW: Would it be great if hearings on educating kids and feeding those most in need got all that attention?
 
LEMON: And health care and voting rights, and all of that stuff. Yes, right on. 
 
HARLOW: Well, President Biden addressing his age and his plans for 2024. He has a new sit-down interview with our John King, we're lucky. John King is up early and with us this morning. Hey, John.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JUDY WOODRUFF, PBS NEWSHOUR SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Does it give you any concern?
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES: Watch me. It's all I can say.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WOODRUFF: You'd be 82. The day of the next election 86, if you're successful and elected and finish that term. Does it give you any concern?
 
BIDEN: Watch me. It's all I can say. Look, I'm a great respector of fate. I will be completely thoroughly honest with the American people if I thought there was any health problem, anything that would keep me from being able to do the job.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: That was President Biden in his first interview since the State of the Union. He told PBS NewsHour, that he is confident. He can do the job for another four years, despite having yet to officially announce that he's running for office a second time. Here to discuss is CNN's Chief National Correspondent, and the anchor of "INSIDE POLITICS", John King. John, at this interview, the President said he hasn't made the decision, but it is still his intention to run. You know, do you think that State of Union Address Tuesday night just really solidified that, yes, he's running? 
 
JOHN KING, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, and his first trip after the State of the Union was to battleground Wisconsin.
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
KING: So, look, he -- we should just assume he is running until he tells us otherwise. And look, that's a candid answer from the President. We should hold him to it, but if he had any issues, he would be forthright and honest with the American people. But to his broader point, watch him, of course, we will. You know, you see the polling, even Democrats are a little nervous about this, you know, they think he's a superhero. He's the guy who beat Donald Trump. So, Democrats hold Joe Biden in a very special place, and some of the men think but, in the next election, should he do it again? So, this 2023 is about trying to turn the temperature down on the age question for President Biden.
 
So, we'll watch him out on the road. And then we'll watch 2024 would be a very different campaign. Remember 2020, was still a COVID campaign. You didn't have as many events. You weren't traveling around the country as much. So, the President will get a chance to prove his vigor, if you will, when we have a full-blown 2024 campaign.
 <br>[08:25:06]
 
LEMON: What -- I wonder why don't -- why so much attention on Biden's age? And he -- look, he says rightfully so, you know, he's going to be honest with people. And he said that for years now, right? The concern about -- Trump isn't much younger, was it like two and a half years?
 
COLLINS: Three, four years, yes.
 
KING: So -- and so, Don --
 
LEMON: All right, three and half years.
 
KING: So, Don, you framed a great question. You know, Ron DeSantis, I believe is 44. Nikki Haley, who's going to announce next week, I think is 51. And so, do the Republicans nominate Trump again? Then you'd have a 79-year-old guy running as an 80-year-old guy might have the numbers off a little bit, but essentially the same thing. So, you have all these Republicans Sarah Huckabee Sanders did it in her state of the Union response. We need a generational change. Notice, she didn't say it shouldn't be Donald Trump. She just said it shouldn't be Joe Biden. So, the Biden people, many of them are banking on the fact that Trump will be the nominee, and that the age thing will not be an issue.
 
If the Republicans nominate somebody else, maybe it does become an issue. And why are we talking about it? We should talk about it in the case of Joe Biden, we should talk about it in the case of Donald Trump, or anyone else who runs because it's something we've never done before. We've never had a president this age running for reelection. Are people living longer? Is medical science way far advanced than it was 20, 30, 40 years ago, when I started doing this? Absolutely. But to many voters, it's a legitimate issue. So, we should ask the question, and as the president says, watch him respectfully.
 
HARLOW: I was really interested by his answer on China, John. So, Judy Woodruff asked him, has this balloon incident, the spy balloon, sort of worsened our relationship with China? And he said, no. And then he went on to say this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BIDEN: I made it real clear to Xi Jinping, that we're going to compete fully with China. But we're not going to look -- we're not looking for conflict.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HARLOW: What do you -- what did you make of that?
 
KING: Well, he made that point to Xi Jinping before, well before Xi Jinping, or his government sent a balloon over the United States of America, and embarrassed the Biden administration. Look, here's the -- what the President's trying to do here is the President is trying to say, nothing has changed, right? He hopes that he has more leverage now in the next conversation with Xi Jinping. He hopes that it gives him leverage in the conversation, he doesn't want to poke him in the eye publicly. But of course, things have changed.
 
HARLOW: Right.
 
KING: The Secretary of State canceled the trip.
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
KING: They will take the Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, tried to call his Chinese counterpart, and they wouldn't take the call. Wendy Sherman, a top State Department official is going to be on Capitol Hill today, along with a lot of Pentagon brass, mid-level generals to explain what happened here. Things have changed. What the President hopes is that six months, in a year from now, he can use this as leverage, and the China, for example, will not invade Taiwan. If six months, in a year from now that's true, then maybe things will not have changed. But in the moment, things have changed.
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
COLLINS: Yes, it's definitely a huge moment to watch on that with China. He also talked about the classified documents, John. He was saying to the best of his knowledge, the things that they picked up are things from 1974 stray papers, he said there might be something else, I don't know. But he talked about the people who were packing up his office, he said they didn't do the kind of job that should have been done to go thoroughly through every single piece of literature that's there. What do you make of that?
 
KING: Well, number one, he's the CEO of the operation, just like George Santos is responsible for his campaign finance reports. Joe Biden is responsible for the documents in his office, right? It could be a staff member's mistake, but you're still the boss, right? So, let's not shift the blame to other people. It's your office, you're responsible for what happens to that office. To the point about it's old stuff from 1974, he better be right. His lawyers have told him to stop answering questions about this, they just say it's under investigation. When that's done, then we can talk. Because he doesn't know, or at least they say they don't know exactly what was found there.
 
So, the advice of the lawyers and the political people is to say nothing here but, Kaitlan, you know, the President, sometimes he can't resist trying to say everything is fine. But remember, you know, when any politician does this, it -- you run a risk, that what you say is not true. I give you inflation is transitory as one example for President Biden, which was complicated last year. So, his lawyers would like him to be more careful, but he can't resist.
 
LEMON: Hey, John, you know how this works. We have to go. But do you think that this is something that is immediate story, you think it'll affect him with the public, these whole documents issue?
 
KING: I think it depends, how does it end? I think it gives Trump a benefit because Pence did it, Biden did it. So, Trump, again, they're very different circumstances, very different circumstances. But Trump, to his base says see everybody does it. We can't -- we don't know the final chapter of this book yet. We shouldn't try to write it.
 
LEMON: All right. John King, thank you very much. We'll see more of John King --
 
KING: Thank you.
 
LEMON: -- just in a couple of hours "INSIDE POLITICS" today at noon here on CNN. Have a great day. A great show. OK. So, one week, two all-star losses, the Brooklyn Nets shipping superstars Kyrie Irving, Kevin Durant out of town in blockbuster trades. Who do we have to talk about it? There he is LZ Granderson, live to discuss.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)