Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Special Counsel Seeks To Stop Trump From Sharing Evidence; Fourth Criminal Indictment Expected In Georgia; Trump's Court And Campaign Calendars Collide; Police: Influencer Kai Cenat Charged With Nothing A Riot And Unlawful Assembly, Among Other Charges; Officials Identify Another Victim In Beach Slayings; Taylor Swift's Eras Tour Boosts Local Economies; Conservation Officials Warn People To Give Animals Their Space After Otter Incident. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired August 05, 2023 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Russia's Ministry of Defense says, the drone made a U-turn, and no border violation occurred.
 <br>[13:00:04]
 
The incident comes as Ukraine launched two strikes on Russian targets in the Black Sea. And overnight, one of Russia's largest oil tankers in the Black Sea was hit by a drone.
 
You can see the moments leading up to this attack right here on this video. Russia says the ship was not carrying oil, but a Ukrainian source claims it was carrying fuel for the Russian military.
 
The attack came just hours after Ukrainian see drones targeted a coastal naval base, striking a Russian warship.
 
CNN's chief international security correspondent Nick Paton Walsh is in Ukraine. What's the latest?
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, a startling shift in the focus of this conflict. Now, suddenly towards the Black Sea. So much closer to home than Russia could possibly have wanted.
 
You referred to a Russian fighter intercepting what it says was the U.S. drone, Reaper M9QA -- sorry, MQ-9A. Now, they said they did that in strict accordance with international law.
 
Well, that comes simply off matter of hours after Ukrainian drones, one that a waterborne have targeted two key vessels just this morning. A Russian oil cargo ship called, SIG, which was it appears struck by Ukrainian drone in the Black Sea, for quite some distance off the coast.
 
But also too yesterday, Novorossiysk, the key naval ports, an amphibious assault vehicle hit by another Ukrainian drone.
 
And also too, suggestions that an oil depo was indeed hit on the eastern side of the Crimean Peninsula. This part of a building number, Fred, of incidents occurring in the Black Sea and area frankly, which Russia must have felt was entirely impregnable, just a matter of weeks ago, and is now subject to a warning from a Ukrainian maritime agency, calling much of that area, Sochi, a popular city on the sea -- the Black Sea, that's Russian holiday resort, and parts all the way up to its north, suggesting all of those are "at risk of war, a war risk area," to quote precisely.
 
So, a dramatic change here. I thinking what were is where Ukraine is projecting its power, it may be a bid to show some element more of military success, given how slow the southern counter offensive appears to be being at the moment.
 
Understandably, slow, frankly, but it certainly must make those in the Kremlin utterly perplexed, as to how this war could be getting quite so close to home, particularly, on the side of the Black Sea, where they must have withdrawn part of the naval forces, realizing they were at risk in Crimea, a startling turn of events. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: Startling indeed. Nick Paton Walsh, thank you so much.
 
And this just in to the newsroom, a new deadline for Donald Trump's lawyers in the latest federal indictment against him on charges of election interference.
 
The Trump team now has until Monday at 5:00 p.m. Eastern to respond to a request for a protective order by Special Counsel Jack Smith.
 
Smith submitted a filing last night and cited this social media post from Trump that reads, "If you go after me, I'm coming after you." Trump's campaign defended the post as the definition of political speech, and said it had nothing to do with the case.
 
But Smith said it showed Trump's habit of speaking publicly on his prosecutions. And he asked the judge to ban Trump's lawyers from giving Trump copies of evidence deemed sensitive.
 
Smith is also asking the judge to bar Trump from taking down any personal identifying information from the documents.
 
CNN's Alayna Treene, joining us now from Columbia, South Carolina, where the former president will be attending a campaign event later on.
 
So, Alayna, it's highly likely that Trump will talk about these indictments against him. What are you hearing about what is planned tonight?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Right. Well, Fred, I do think you should expect him to continue to talk about his legal troubles. He did so in Alabama at a campaign event last night, and I know he's likely going to use that same rhetoric during his remarks before a group of South Carolina Republicans this evening.
 
Now, Donald Trump has continued in his remarks last night as well, to frame these charges as election interference. He is also arguing that he's going to see a boost in the polls from these charges. And he referenced that during his speech last night. Let's take a listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Every time they file an indictment, we go way up in the polls. We need one more indictment to close out this election. One more indictment and this election is closed out. Nobody has even a chance.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TREENE: Now, Fred, clearly, Donald Trump's team does think that, him, talking about these indictments and his charges is helping him.
 
I know from my conversations with his advisers that they do recognize the political advantages of these charges in the indictment he's in so far. And I think that's why you're seeing him lean into them on the campaign trail.
 <br>[13:05:05]
 
But I can also tell you from my same conversations with those advisors that behind the scenes, Donald Trump is very frustrated about these charges.
 
He is very concerned about what it means for his campaign, as well as his legacy looking forward. I know that something Donald Trump very much cares about, and this has been weighing on him. But in public, and again, what you'll probably hear from him tonight in South Carolina, is the more defiant Trump. The Trump that he wants voters to see because he knows that Republicans react really well to that, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: It will be interesting if he were to change his tone as a result to the kind of motion that was just filed Friday.
 
TREENE: Right.
 
WHITFIELD: And now his attorneys have a deadline of Monday, in which to respond.
 
All right, Alayna Treene keep us posted. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Meanwhile, a fourth criminal indictment against Donald Trump, now seems likely this time in the state of Georgia. The case focuses on the former president's efforts to overturn the state's 2020 election result.
 
Security around the local courthouse has already ramped up ahead of potential charges. CNN's Brian Todd has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TRUMP: This was never supposed to happen in America.
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The already enormous legal pressure on the former president is likely about to intensify.
 
A grand jury in Georgia expected to consider criminal charges against Donald Trump and his Republican allies.
 
KATIE CHERKASKY, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: In terms of the Georgia case, it's going to add a significant burden on him to defend, yet another case. These cases will all have significant trial deadlines and pretrial deadlines for hearings that he's going to have to be involved with, and that will detract from his campaign.
 
TODD (voice over): A decision on whether to seek charges against the former president in Georgia will be made within the next few weeks by a team led by Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis.
 
FANI WILLIS, DISTRICT ATTORNEY, FULTON COUNTY, GEORGIA: The work is accomplished. And we've been working for 2-1/2 years, we're ready to go.
 
TODD (voice over): The case focuses on the multi-pronged effort Trump launched in the wake of the 2020 election to overturn the results in Georgia. It included pressure on Georgia's governor and secretary of state, both Republicans to find enough votes to flip Joe Biden's win in the state.
 
TRUMP: So, what are we going to do here, folks? I only need 11,000 votes. Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break.
 
TODD (voice over): When the governor and secretary of state refused to go along, Trump urged state lawmakers to convene a special session to reverse Biden's victory.
 
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER ATTORNEY TO PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: This election was a sham.
 
TODD (voice over): Trump ally, Rudy Giuliani, went to the Georgia House and Senate with bogus voter fraud claims.
 
TIA MITCHELL, WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT, ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION: Rudy Giuliani is considered to have a lot of exposure in Georgia, because he spoke at those legislative hearings. And we know a lot of the information he shared was not true at the time.
 
TODD (voice over): Other Trump allies who could face criminal charges, a Republican activist the Trump campaign recruited to serve as fake electors.
 
They allegedly played key roles in a failed plot to block the election from being certified.
 
MITCHELL: About half of them have received immunity deals, which indicates they're working with the prosecution to tell them what they know.
 
TODD (voice over): CNN has reported that Fani Willis is considering bringing charges of conspiracy and racketeering in this case.
 
CHERKASKY: Racketeering charges are typically broader criminal schemes, involving multiple individuals, and essentially, the maximum punishment for those types of charges are typically much higher than other charges that are mentioned here.
 
TODD (voice over): Testimony has also been sought in the Georgia case from former Trump White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows and Republican Senator Lindsey Graham.
 
Fani Willis has told local officials of threats she is received. Many of them of a racist nature during the period she is been investigating this case.
 
WILLIS: I've probably been called the N-word more times in the last 2- 1/2 years then, most 100 people combined.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
TODD (on camera): Throughout the Georgia investigation, Donald Trump has vehemently denied wrongdoing as half his allies. Trump has lashed out at Fani Willis, calling her racist and "a lunatic" Marxist.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Let me now turn to former federal prosecutor Joseph Moreno and Jeffrey Jacobovitz. Also, he is a criminal defense attorney. Good to see both of you. Let's talk further about what's at hand and what's potentially on the horizon.
 
Joseph, you first, you know, connect the dots for us here regarding the online posts from Donald Trump, you know, saying, you come after me, I'm coming after you. Why does Special Counsel Jack Smith use it to show his concerns that the former president may go public with sensitive pieces of evidence?
 
JOSEPH MORENO, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR, JUSTICE DEPARTMENT: Hi, Fredricka. Well, look, I mean, any good defense counsel will tell his or her client, don't say anything. Don't talk to the press, don't talk to your friends. I mean, just have communications with your defense counsel while the investigation charges are processing.
 
Donald Trump, of course is not the typical client. And so, probably the best thing for him would be for the judge in that case to put a basically a gag order on the case, and say, all right no communications about this matter while the case is pending.
 <br>[13:10:08]
 
It would be the best thing for Donald Trump, because frankly, he is his own worst enemy here. And it's clearly not listening to his advisers.
 
WHITFIELD: But at the same time, it seems to be working for him, you know. And he has attorneys now have until Monday, in which to respond. So, I wonder, Joseph, what would be the response? Because, thus far, we're hearing from the defendant and his attorneys that this is free speech. Can it be in this case too?
 
MORENO: That will be the response, right? He has first amendment rights, he should not be subjected to a gag, he'll be treated unfairly, because he's in the context of a political campaign. And therefore, if they put a gag on him to not be able to talk about current events, that will be putting him at a disadvantage.
 
And look, it's unique, because there's not a lot of times, we've had a former president and a current candidate being charged like this. I would tend to think that the judge, though, would lean toward less speech and say, look, free speech is one thing, but you can't talk about this case. You can't do that sort of thing, while it's -- while it's ongoing.
 
WHITFIELD: Jeffrey -- yes, I mean, so that would be, you know, free speech versus harassment. And, you know, who, if not the Special Counsel, would Trump be referring to when he's talking about you come after me, you know, I'm coming after you.
 
So, now, how might that help dictate the defense attorney's response for Monday?
 
JEFFREY JACOBOVITZ, ADJUNCT LAW PROFESSOR, AMERICAN UNIVERSITY: Well, well, Fredricka, Trump's people coming out with a story last night about what the text really showed, or the tweet really showed, and it seemed to have no merit whatsoever.
 
I think what the judge could do is just issue a protective order. And, if the -- if Trump violates the protective orders, she can hold Trump in contempt. And technically, if it's any defendant, lock them up, it seems like Trump is almost tempting her to put him in jail, and maybe he thinks that will help his campaign.
 
But the judge would probably be leery about doing that because of the upcoming election. And it doesn't seem like Jack Smith wants to lock them up at this point, either, because he hasn't asked for incarceration.
 
And generally, when you have a defendant with three pending indictments, you're held without bail, you're -- you know, the Court will hold you in jail pending trial.
 
That hasn't happened. He's about to have his fourth indictment. It looks like it's going to be a very broad RICO case. In fact, he referred to it in his speech -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
JACOBOVITZ: -- as we open the show. And so, that will be number four. And it's not clear what the judge will do there in terms of bonds.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. The former president, saying bring it, bring the fourth. It helps him in his campaigning and it helps him, you know, in getting more donations.
 
So, Joseph, you know, now that we have, you know, these indictments involving three criminal cases against the former president, is it your feeling that it is the classified documents case that is the strongest? Or is it now the case of overturning an election that seems to be the strongest or most consequential potentially?
 
MORENO: Fredricka, the January 6th charges are the most explosive. Right? You have the violence there, you have the fact that you have a president, basically trying to stay in power in spite of an election that he lost.
 
But, I mean, for reasons that have already been discussed over the last few days, I think that case has some stretches. The Mar-a-Lago classified documents case is pretty straightforward. I mean, it's no factual question that the boxes of documents were there.
 
And any defense that Donald Trump might try to say about, well, I thought I declassified them, I thought I was allowed to have them. Those arguments already had some legal problems, but they're basically eviscerated now by the obstruction charges and the superseding indictment, because one would say, all right, if you really thought you had the right to these documents, why did you try to hide the fact that you had them?
 
So, again, the January 6th charges might be really explosive, and the other ones that might come, we'll see what happens. But I, personally think it's the classified documents case that poses the real problem for him.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. And then, Jeffrey, you know, the former president is stomping. Oh, go ahead.
 
JACOBOVITZ: Yes, I would disagree with Joseph. I don't see January 6th, indictment, having any stretches. 18 U.S. Code 371 is a standard playing by the government. It's upheld all the time on appeal. And I -- and I would say, if you're interested that they are both equally strong, and there is a lot of evidence that Jack Smith has that he will put forward and, in fact, we do not know all the evidence he has.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. And we shouldn't, right? I mean, what prosecutors going to reveal everything off the bat. And again, it's the grand jury that found that there was enough evidence in which to indict here, this wasn't singularly by, you know, the special counsel, after, of course, he and his team has presented the information.
 <br>[13:15:05]
 
So, I wonder too, Jeffrey, you know, Donald Trump, just as we have seen on Truth Social, in person, at his rallies, I mean, he lets -- you like to let loose. He is going to, this evening, stump in South Carolina.
 
This calendar is getting more crowded, whether it's the campaign commitments or many, you know, court commitments.
 
But the Court doesn't care how busy you are, right? They are going to set these dates best -- based on the premise of a speedy proceedings -- speedy trial.
 
How do you see, potentially or not the campaign calendar interfering with the Court calendar? Or the saying of the Court calendar? (CROSSTALK)
 
JACOBOVITZ: Well, the court -- excuse me. The Court calendar is going to be very busy. And already, Alvin Bragg in New York had indicated that he would delay his trial and defer to Jack Smith, and have the federal cases go first.
 
It's not sure, and we're not sure if Fani Willis and Jack Smith are coordinating in terms of trial dates. But now we have a big chunk of time where they could try the January 6 case, since the Mar-a-Lago case was put off until May.
 
And so, the defense here is going to be, delay, delay, delay, and that's their best to fabs. Because what they're hoping for is Trump or another Republican, gets elected, and then, the case is dismissed, the cases are dismissed by a new attorney general, or Trump is pardoned.
 
And that's their best defense and it seems like, in a way, almost their only defense.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We'll leave it there for now.
 
Jeffrey Jacobovitz, Joseph Moreno, thank you so much.
 
JACOBOVITZ: Thank you, Fredricka.
 
MORENO: Thanks, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: Coming up, the relentless heat wave and not -- it is not letting up. 62 million people are under heat alerts right now across the south and southwest. We'll bring you the latest forecast.
 
Plus, a popular Twitch streamer charged with inciting a riot in New York after he attracted 1,000s to Union Square, where the crowd became violent.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:21:17]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. This just in from Florida. Police say a 28-year- old man suspected of shooting two Orlando officers Friday is now dead.
 
A manhunt had been underway until police said the suspect was located at a motel this morning. They say he fired at the SWAT team that was on the site and officers fired back, killing the suspect.
 
Two officers are in critical condition after the original shooting during a traffic stop on Friday night.
 
And a frenzied scene unfolding in New York City, Friday, after giveaway events spiraled out of control. Police arrested 65 people and nearly half of them were juveniles.
 
It began after social media influencer, Kai Cenat, told millions of his online followers that he would be handing out computers and gaming equipment in New York.
 
He is now charged with inciting a riot and unlawful assembly. CNN correspondent Polo Sandoval is following all of this.
 
How did it all happen?
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: You know, Fred, what happened here just about 24 hours ago, it really does underscore the power of social media.
 
Here we are a day later, and there is a bit of a business-as-usual mood here in the heart of Manhattan. But often the distance, reminders of what took place as park workers are power washing, the paint that was smeared all over the area here, including up on top of that subway entrance and exit that was actually under construction.
 
That green temporary wall was actually torn down by the rioting crowd just yesterday. That crowds spiraling out of control in only minutes. The NYPD last night saying that from one moment, they had about three to 400 young people, then, the next, they had several 1000s.
 
So, that really does speak to the situation. In all, you had some police officers, even members of the public that were injured by some of the items that were being thrown in or out of the crowd here.
 
You mentioned to about 60 people who are arrested, about half of them are juveniles. Working to find out what, if any kind of charges will be filed against them.
 
But meanwhile, I also want to hear -- want you to hear from Mayor Eric Adams, as he just a few moments ago actually addressed yesterday's incident about what he thinks may have been behind it. And also, the police response that was a pretty credible. A quick escalation from a level two to the highest, a level for response.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ERIC ADAMS (D), MAYOR OF NEW YORK CITY: We believe there was some outside influences that may have attempted to aggravate the situation.
 
And I cannot say enough for the police department yesterday. I don't think people realize the level of discipline that was showed to take a very dangerous volatile situation, and to be able to bring it to a level of resolve without any loss of life, any substantial damage to property, and without young people harming them themselves.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANDOVAL: It really is incredible what the mayor just said there, when you consider all of that video that we've been able to see and really sort of go through over the last 24 hours to know that there were any serious injuries or worse that took place.
 
We also heard yesterday from the NYPD, Fred, saying, influencers also need to be held to account. Again, the power of social media, we saw them display here just about a day ago. WHITFIELD: And then, Polo, in the end, were any of those promises of gaming equipment, electronics, all that stuff actually handed out?
 
SANDOVAL: Now, all of those people, they were drawn here with promises or free PlayStations, other electronics, and gift cards. But according to what we're hearing from officials, this influencer, when he arrived on location, he didn't have anything on him.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Polo Sandoval, thank you so much.
 
All right. Today, The National Park Service, issuing an excessive heat warning for the Grand Canyon, amid dangerously hot conditions.
 <br>[13:25:07]
 
The warning is reserved for only the hottest days of the year, and is issued when temperatures are expected to rise to dangerous levels. This, as 62 million people across the south and southwest are under heat alerts.
 
More than 100 temperature records could be broken or tied this weekend.
 
Let's go now to CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar in the weather center. It is hot and getting hotter all the time, it seems.
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, it seems like this is the summer that just won't end. Right? And we get it. It's hot, it's summer, it's supposed to be hot. But for many of these areas, it's been days, after days, after days of record-breaking heat.
 
So, it's not the normal heat you'd experienced during a summer. We have a heat alerts set in place from California all the way over towards Florida.
 
So again, not even just a state or two here, you're looking at a lot of areas that are dealing with this. Along the Gulf Coast, it's not just the temperatures, but also that mixed in with the humidity that creates what we like to call the feels like temperature, the heat index.
 
Already right now, it feels like 109 in Corpus Christi. 106 in Houston. It feels like 108 in New Orleans. Even Tampa, it feels like 106 right now with that combined heat and humidity.
 
Out to the West, also still very hot. Many of these places, five to 10 degrees above average, including Tucson, Phoenix, as well as Las Vegas, all well into the triple digits.
 
The thing is not just today, but even tomorrow and Monday, we're looking at, at least, 100 locations that could end up breaking record- breaking highs. Some of them could do it all three days in a row.
 
So, again, it's more the prolonged heat that's really been a big concern for a lot of the states. The few places that aren't dealing with extreme heat are the areas that are getting showers right now. But there's flood concerns, as well as the potential for some severe storms. You're talking damaging winds and large hail, places like Indianapolis, Memphis, stretching out towards Oklahoma City and Kansas City.
 
And some of these areas are even going to be looking at severe weather as we head into Sunday too, because the bulk of that severe weather is going to continue to shift off to the east. Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: OK. Allison Chinchar, thank you so much.
 
CHINCHAR: Thanks.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still to come, authorities in New York identify another Gilgo Beach murder victim. She was previously known as Fire Island Jane Doe, and has gone missing, and had gone missing, rather, on Valentine's Day in 1996.
 
And in Oregon, a woman escaped a makeshift cinder block dungeon. A 29- year-old man in custody. And the FBI believes there are more victims in other states. We'll bring you the latest.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:31:46]
 
WHITFIELD: After 27 years, authorities have identified a victim previously known as Fire Island Jane Doe. Officials made the announcement Friday as an update to their ongoing probe into the Gilgo Beach serial killings. Joining us right now to discuss our criminologist, attorney and behavioral analyst Casey Jordan and defense attorney Misty Marris. 
 
Good to see you both, ladies. Casey, you first, so Karen Vergata's remains were among those found scattered along Long Island's south shore across two different decades. So what does this mean for the Gilgo Beach investigation? There hasn't been made a direct correlation to the suspect, you know, in the three cases and, you know, her identity. But might this redirect the investigation in any way?
 
CASEY JORDAN, CNN CRIMINOLOGIST: Well, at this juncture, it seems very unlikely that they would have direct forensic evidence to tie their current suspect in the three other murders from 2010 to Rex Heuermann, because it's unlikely they're going to have any hairs or DNA on any body parts that had been found back then. But it does lend a lot of understanding to what we believe is probably a bigger pattern. 1996 is when Ms. Vergata went missing. And part of her body was found on Fire Island. The skull was found on Gilgo Beach, where very close to where the other bodies were eventually found.
 
1996 is the year that Rex Heuermann, age 33, got married to a woman who came to the relationship with another child, and she became pregnant very quickly, had another baby. All of this simply means he probably had a lot of stressors going on in 1996. The next body wouldn't surface for another three or four years, and eventually the killings would become compressed. But in criminology, this really does fit what we know about a serial killer. It's very unlikely that Mr. Heuermann started killing in 2010.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh. So Misty, this Rex Heuermann, you know, he's charged with three counts of the first degree murder in the deaths of three women. He has refuted those charges and is the prime suspect in the killing of another woman. Can you explain kind of the steps that his attorneys might be taking now, because there could potentially be more charges?
 
MISTY MARRIS, DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Absolutely. And to Casey's point, it is unlikely, when you look at the profile of a serial killer, that it's limited to just the Gilgo four. He's charged with three. He's the prime suspect in a fourth. And keep in mind, Fred, they have just investigators gone into his home and searched his home for the first time. So while he'd been identified a while back and watched, and we had a lot of electronic footprint type evidence, now they've searched his home. What will they find there?
 
Well, they said there is an astronomical amount of evidence that had been obtained that they're now sorting through. So that's one piece of it. What will that connect him to? We don't know. Another piece right now, prosecutors are asking for what's called a buccal swab. That's a cheek swab that will give them additional DNA of Heuermann. So right now, his defense attorneys are likely to object to that, and there will be a little motion practice, but it's more likely than not the prosecutors are going to get that.
 <br>[13:35:09]
 
So my guess would be defense, they're going to be focused on refuting some of the DNA evidence, the mitochondrial DNA, and focusing their case on that expert battle of the expert type thing.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, let's shift gears to another extraordinary mind boggling case. Casey this week, a woman from Seattle escaped from a makeshift cinder block dungeon, and it was at a home in Oregon. And now a 29-year-old man is in federal custody on suspicion of interstate kidnapping. Investigators fear that there may be more victims in other states. I mean, do you think they would expect these potential victims to have survived similar encounters?
 
JORDAN: It's mind boggling, it's almost an understatement. But what we get, especially from the photos that the police have released of that cinder block cell makeshift. And he had just moved into this rental house, and the first thing he did was build this cell in his garage. This really does indicate a thought process, a very active sexual fantasy that's been going on for a long time. This is not a crime of impulse. So much thought went into this. Driving seven hours all the way to Seattle to find his victim, having a fake police badge, you know, and a stun gun, handcuffs, leg shackles, telling her he was an undercover cop. She's under arrest. She has to come with him.
 
He has put a lot of thought into this, and that doesn't happen overnight, Fred. That is something that's come about probably from a lot of trial and error in the past. This is why the police are reaching out, hoping that anyone out there who's had an encounter with this man in the past and lived to tell, but perhaps because of their vulnerable lifestyle, did not want to go to the police because they're involved in sex work. They're telling them, don't worry about your reputation. Just come to us. Tell us what's happened in the past. Did he abuse you? Did he rape you? Did you escape? You know, did you survive this man?
 
And then I think we're going to see a pattern fall into place. I don't think this was the first time he's done something like this.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. And so, Misty, I wonder, too, this might revive some kind of missing person cases, right, potentially as prosecutors, police try to get answers to this, but then try to figure out if there are connections to other situations.
 
MARRIS: Absolutely. And the first thing they look at is modus operandi, other missing persons cases that may have fit that similar type of profile or those similar types of actions, and look at those missing person cases and see if there's any link or connection to this individual. That's the beginning of this.
 
And then, just like we saw with Gilgo, you'll see that it starts to be an onion that continues to be peeled. More information comes out, electronic footprint, video. Once they get these leads, investigators will be able to take those next steps, get those subpoenas, and try and work towards identifying potential other victims that could be out there.
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. Incredible. All right, thank you, ladies. Casey, Jordan and Misty Marris, great to see you both. We'll be right back.
 <br>[13:38:11]
 
JORDAN: Always good to be here.
 
MARRIS: Thank you.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Taylor Swift's record breaking Eras tour is coming to an end in the U.S. for now. The wildly successful tour could gross over a billion dollars when it's done and it's been a major boost for local economies. CNN's Camila Bernal has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TAYLOR SWIFT, AMERICAN SINGER-SONGWRITER: Welcome to the Eras tour.
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It's the words millions, including Julie Barfuss were waiting to hear and it was a dream come true.
 
JULIE BARFUSS, TAYLOR SWIFT FAN: I'm trying to stick these crystals on it.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): But nine months ago she thought those dreams had been crushed. BARFUSS: I was crying. I was really upset because it was just so long and every time you'd get in, you'd get kicked out or get an error or something would go wrong and it was just like nonstop drama.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): Despite multiple tries, she wasn't able to get her tickets through Ticketmaster. She eventually bought them from another fan. Two tickets for $600, then $100 on parking, almost 400 on gas. She drove from Salt Lake City to Santa Clara, California about 700 on a hotel. More than 300 on meals.
 
BARFUSS: Got matching.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): And 200 on her outfit and makeup. 
 
SANJAY SHARMA, FINANCE &amp; BUSINESS ECONOMICS PROFESSOR, USC: The multiplier effect is just enormous, and it's a new phenomenon. It's not even compared. Super Bowl doesn't compare to this.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): Sanjay Sharma, professor of finance at the University of Southern California, has been studying and estimating the Taylor Swift numbers. He says he could see the Eras tour being what he calls a $5 billion GDP type tour.
 
SHARMA: So that includes ticket sales, that includes hotels, that includes all of the small shopkeepers.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): He says quantifying it is hard, but points out that the money stays in the U.S. boosting local economies. And it's happening from California to Massachusetts, Pennsylvania to the Plains.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So we kind of think this is the quintessential welcome.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): The U.S. and soon the world benefiting from the Taylor Swift economics. And it's the Swifties, the faithful fans, who often don't hesitate to spend.
 
BARFUSS: Do you want a trade bracelet? 
 
BERNAL (voice-over): For Julie, it's not about the money. And it's not just the tour.
 
BARFUSS: This one has the date, Era's tour.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): She's embarked on a long term mission against Ticketmaster and has sued over her experience when purchasing tickets. That will entail more money on travel, hotels, meals, money she says, is worth it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[13:45:11]
 
BERNAL: So the attorneys representing Ticketmaster did not want to comment, but the company has apologized to Taylor Swift and to the fans, the very loyal, the very excited fans who are willing to spend the money, who are willing to stand in line. Take a look here behind me. This is the line for merchandise.
 
And the first person in line got here at 3:00 in the morning. The show doesn't start until 6:30 p.m. They are already dressed up. They're talking to each other, exchanging those friendship bracelets and waiting. Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: Wait a minute. I don't even hear the boom boxes. I would imagine if people are out there that long, they would be playing the music. Speakers would be blaring all her greatest hits. But, you know, they're being patient, and they are dedicated fans.
 
Oh, yes. OK.
 
BERNAL: They really are.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, well, have fun with the fans, the Swifties tonight. Camila Bernal, thank you so much.
 
BERNAL: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still ahead, a rare otter attack that sent one woman to the hospital, that's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:50:38]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, this week's episode of See It Loud highlights the rich history of black talent and creations in science fiction and horror.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
YTASHA L. WOMACK, AUTHOR, AFROFUTURISM: THE WORLD OF BLACK SCI FI &amp; FANTASY CULTURE: It was really groundbreaking to have a black superhero on television. And for many people, this was one of their first examples of Afrofuturism in science fiction television. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They've been stung by a mantis.
 
SCOTT EVANS, HOST, ACCESS HOLLYWOOD: Carl Lumbly stars as this man who's been shot by the police.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Somebody help me.
 
EVANS: He's paralyzed, but builds an exoskeleton that gives him the ability to walk. And with that ability comes for him the responsibility of fighting violence.
 
CARL LUMBLY, ACTOR, M.A.N.T.I.S.: I'm Carl Lumbly. And I was television's first black superhero. Didn't know it. Assumed that there must have been another one, just, you know, one I hadn't heard about.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You can go on destroying each other, or you can learn to live together.
 
LUMBLY: Mantis was a pilot that celebrated black genius.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: The new episode of the CNN original series See It Loud: The History of Black Television, tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. Eastern, right here on CNN. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:56:28]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, what was supposed to be a relaxing tuberide down the Jefferson River in Montana for three friends turned pretty scary when the women were attacked by a river otter. All three were injured and managed to get out of the water. But one of the victims had more serious injuries and was flown to the hospital by helicopter. Montana Fish, Wildlife and Park says, warning signs have been posted in the area.
 
Let's talk now with Jeff Corwin. He's a wildlife and conservation expert and host of Wildlife Nation. Jeff, great to see you. Wildlife officials, you know, otter attacks are rare. But, you know, they can be very protective of themselves or maybe even they're young. How odd is this?
 
JEFF CORWIN, WILDLIFE &amp; CONSERVATION EXPERT: Well, good afternoon there, Fred, and your theory is kind of where I'm heading. This is an incredibly rare event, but they're very territorial. They're very large. They're similar in size to a small dog. They have powerful jaws that they use to crunch up fish and frogs and crayfish. And if you're at the wrong side of a river otter, you can be in a world of hurt, especially if it's a female with pups. So it was either animal that felt like it's --
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, no. I think our shot just froze up with Jeff Corwin there. Yep. I don't think he's coming back at least not right now. But we are enjoying the pictures of what everyone thinks are cute and cuddly river otters. But you heard it from Jeff Corwin. Keep your distance. They can be pretty fierce. And we just found out, unpredictable for three women who were enjoying a river ride. Jefferson River ride there in Montana.
 
Well, sorry we couldn't get Jeff back. Oh, wait. As I continue to talk, maybe our signal is coming back. There he is.
 
CORWIN: I'm here.
 
WHITFIELD: You are there. Keep going.
 
CORWIN: Fred, I've been hanging here. My arm's about to break. I want to tell you about river otters.
 
WHITFIELD: Tell me more. CORWIN: Yes. They rarely do this. They're not aggressive. But this was animal that was probably being territorial. Maybe there was something medical going on with an illness. Thankfully, it's rare, but you don't want to be at the wrong end of a river otter. They have a powerful set of jaws.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. Hey, well, let's shift gears a little bit, and let's talk about all the worries that, you know, many of us who love our oceans have about the coral reefs. And in Florida, state wildlife officials there are warning that corals are melting. So we're not talking about bleaching anymore, but melting? What is that?
 
CORWIN: Fredricka, as you know, I know you love to dive. Coral reefs are a big part of your life in Florida. I know you actually, a story you did inspired me to do a story.
 
WHITFIELD: Really? I inspired you?
 
CORWIN: Yes. I'm actually pursuing a story. Yes, you did this incredible story of African Americans in Florida that are divers that are trying to save reefs. We're working on that right now. We're investigating that. But this is a big, so you're helping me make T.V. shows. But the truth is, seriously, this is terrifying. It's a perfect extinction storm.
 
As you know from your visits to Florida when you were there a couple of years ago, Florida had already lost 98 percent of its coral reefs. We very well could be looking at the loss of the entire building blocks of our tropical oceans. Florida is the only place where we have tropical coral reefs in North America, and we're this close to losing it. We're almost out of time with our coral reef.
 <br>[14:00:04]