Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Judge Blocks Biden's Asylum Policy in Major Blow to Administration; Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) Suddenly Warning to a Possible Biden Impeachment Inquiry; LeBron James' Son Out of ICU and in Stable Condition. Aired 7-7:30a ET

Aired July 26, 2023 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:00:00]
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR:  That was great.
 
CNN This Morning continues right now.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Hunter Biden set to plead guilty to federal tax misdemeanors. Republicans are calling the plea deal a sweetheart deal.
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR:  Prosecutors are expected to recommend no jail time, but obviously the judge here will have the final say.
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  It's just going to be striking because of the magnitude of this moment.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Trevor Reed, the former U.S. Marine, who was freed from Russia in a prisoner swap, was just injured while fighting in Ukraine.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Mr. Reed was not engaged in any activities on behalf of the U.S. government.
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  There is deep concern within the administration about the potential effect of this because those negotiations are so difficult.
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Bronny James, the eldest son of NBA super star LeBron, suffered a cardiac arrest while participating in a practice.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He was released from the ICU very quickly. That's a really good sign.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The basketball community right now is scared to death.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So highly touted, a lot of endorsement deals, it seemed like everything is going his way.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  His father telling The Athletic he can play alongside his son. And now, of course, all of that may be affected by what happened.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The Florida Keys are facing an unprecedented heat wave with ocean temperatures of 100 degrees now threatening coral reefs.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Corals around the world with very close to their maximum limit. They're really on the edge.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  If you add on El Nino and climate change and all of these problems, it's scary for a lot of us.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Police completing their search of Gilgo Beach murder suspect Rex Heuermann's home after 12 days.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The district attorney says investigators collected a massive amount of items.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  With regard to hair fibers, DNA, blood, we just have to await the results.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARLOW:  Good morning, everyone. As you can see there's a lot going on this morning. We're glad you're with us on CNN This Morning.
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR:  And we begin here. A federal judge delivering a major blow to the Biden administration blocking its new asylum policy. Border crossings have plummeted since the rollout of that controversial measure, which largely bars migrants who pass through another country from seeking asylum in the U.S.
 
So, the ruling itself is now on hold for 14 days. The DOJ says it does plan to appeal.
 
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez joining us now with more. So, it's also, we should point out, another legal setback for President Biden. This one has some pretty serious implications. Walk us through that.
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  That's right, Erica. The administration has been facing legal hurdles from both ends of the spectrum, from Republicans and from immigrant advocates. And it was the latter in this case who sued against this rule. It was immigrant advocates who put forward this lawsuit saying that the administration should not be using this asylum rule and likening it to one that was used under the Trump administration and similarly blocked.
 
So, again, what this does is that it largely bars migrants who transit through other countries to seek asylum in the United States if they hadn't already tried to seek refuge elsewhere. And, of course, there are many, if not, all migrants who come through different countries, like Mexico and Guatemala, to try to seek asylum in the United States.
 
So, it barred a lot of them from having that opportunity, marking a decades-long departure from a decades-long protocol.
 
Now, the administration has continued to defend it, including after this ruling. Take a listen to what the White House press secretary said just yesterday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY:  The Department of Justice will appeal the decision and seek to extend the stay. And as we have said multiple times our border enforcement plan works. It is a deterrence, diplomacy and enforcement. We have seen that plan working. Unlawful border crossing have come down to the lowest that we have seen in the past two years.
 
And so, again, nothing has changed, and, as I said, the Department of Justice will appeal to extend -- to work to extend the stay.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVAREZ:  Now as you heard there from the White House press secretary, what administration official say is that the policy had helped drive down the border numbers. Of course, it's one of many measures that they're using but there's certain anxiety as to what happens next.
 
Now, this is on hold for 14 days, and in the interim, the Justice Department has already filed that appeal late yesterday afternoon. So, now, it's going to be what happens in the courts in the next few days. Will this be in effect by the end of the month or not?
 
HARLOW:  This policy is similar to the Trump administration policy. It's something a lot of Democrats didn't like and they criticized the Biden administration, Alejandro Mayorkas for this, and Mayorkas is going to go before Congress today, to testify after months of impeachment threats from Republicans against him. What do you think we're going to see?
 
ALVAREZ:  He is, and he's going to be in front of a key committee, the House Judiciary Committee, where impeachment would originate should House Republicans move forward with that.
 
Now, he is going to be grilled on all of these issues relating to the U.S./Mexico border. Of course, this has been an ongoing point of tension between Republicans and the Biden administration.
 <br>[07:05:00]
 
And House Republicans have gradually tried to shore up their case for impeachment against Mayorkas with the House Homeland Security Committee already starting to roll out its report.
 
Now, of course, there has been some hesitation as to whether or not they should move forward this impeachment, but that certainly means that all the same, there's going to be fireworks at this hearing between House Republicans and the secretary over the handling of the U.S./Mexico border.
 
In fact, just yesterday afternoon, the chairman, Jim Jordan, sent a letter to DHS saying for him to be prepared with data on border arrests and deportation, so already setting the tone for what's going to be a fiery hearing. HILL:  Yes, fiery will definitely be. Priscilla, I appreciate it, thank you.
 
HARLOW:  House Speaker Kevin McCarthy has issued his most explicit threat yet on launching an impeachment inquiry against President Biden. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA):  If more of this continues to unravel; it rises to the level of impeachment inquiry.
 
What that simply provides is that the American public has a right to know, and this allows Congress to get the information to be able to know the truth.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  President Biden was seen laughing off a question from a reporter about what McCarthy said about a potential impeachment inquiry.
 
Lauren Fox joins us this morning again on Capitol Hill, Lauren, good morning. What do you know?
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, good morning, Poppy. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy continues to inch right up to opening that impeachment inquiry without actually formally announcing that he is doing it, and that's because he's still talking to his members behind closed doors.
 
He had a meeting last night with leadership trying to emphasize the fact that opening an impeachment inquiry is different than voting on impeachment. His argument to members both behind closed doors and publicly is that an impeachment inquiry gives you more tools to give interviews, to seek information, to try and get some of those documents that Republicans want to get in order to make the case against Joe Biden.
 
But, of course, there is going to be some trepidation among some members who still don't know if there is a direct tie to be had between Hunter Biden's business dealings and the president himself.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. DON BACON (R-NE):  I don't know that we've made the case for a formal impeachment inquiry yet. I do want the committee digging into this. I think the facts that we're seeing are alarming.
 
REP. JIM JORDA (R-OH):  The speaker has been clear if, in fact, where the facts dictate, the Constitution dictates that we go to an impeachment inquiry phase of the investigation, we'll do that. And the advantage of when you get to that point is it's easier to get the information.
 
REP. RALPH NORMAN (R-SC):  If it's not accountability for the highest officeholder in the land, when is it going to be?
 
At the end of the day, he will be impeached.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOX:  And, of course, there are some members who won in Biden districts who are running for re-election in swing districts, like David Valadao, who I talked to last night. And when he was pressed on whether or not this was good for his re-election, he bluntly said, I don't know yet. And that is because there is still so much more to unfold ahead. And until an actual impeachment inquiry is open, it's hard to know how this will play out.
 
We should note that House Republicans are expected to gather for a conference meeting today off campus at 9:00 A.M. The expectation is that this, of course, could come up despite the fact that they have a number of other issues to address, including the fact that, Poppy, the government runs out of funding at the end of September. Poppy?
 
HARLOW:  There is that. Lauren Fox, thanks.
 
HILL:  Well, in just a matter of hours, Hunter Biden will be in court in Delaware, where he is expected to plead guilty to two federal tax misdemeanors. Ultimately, though, the judge, of course, will have the final word on sentencing.
 
CNN Senior Legal Analyst Elie Honig, of course, also former assistant U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, is with us now.
 
So, walk us through, Elie, first of all, the charges and what we can expect to see in court today.
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST:  Erica, a lot of drama around this case.
 
So, let's focus on the facts that we know for sure. Hunter Biden is expected to plead guilty today, first of all, to two counts of willful failure to pay income taxes. The allegation is that in each of 2017- 2018, he made $1.5 million in income and he owed but did not pay in excess of $100,000 in taxes. We don't know how much in excess, just more.
 
This word is really important, willful, that means it was not an accident or an oversight. He knew what he was doing, he did it on purpose.
 
I should say, some tax cases are handled as felonies. That's more serious. This is a misdemeanor. The agreement that Hunter Biden has with prosecutors is if he pleads guilty, his sentence should be probation, no jail time. But other tax cases, I should say, are handled less seriously as civil cases, not even criminal at all. This is somewhere in between.
 
Hunter Biden also is charged with a sort of obscure, never used but rarely used firearms charge that says a person who is addicted to drugs or alcohol cannot possess a firearm. Now, the deal is he doesn't have to plead guilty to that. If he stays straight, it will be diverted, it will be dismissed. Again, some firearms cases, most firearms cases result in jail time, but this particular statute is almost never actually charged against anyone in the federal system.
 <br>[07:10:05]
 
Now, what's going to happen today? The judge is going to ask Hunter Biden, do you understand all the rights you're giving up? You have a right to a jury trial, you have a right not to incriminate yourself, you'll be giving those up. He will say, yes. Then you will have to allocute, meaning he will have to say under oath in court, I'm guilty, here's exactly what I did that makes me guilty.
 
And then the important thing to watch for, the judge has to accept this deal. The vast majority of times when you have a deal between a defendant and the government, it will be accepted, but there is some discretion here with the judge.
 
HILL:  And in terms of the discretion, this is also bringing up sort of these late night Tuesday issues that have now reared their head. So, there's some controversy here, first being these claims made by IRS whistleblowers. So, this is going to impact things. They're saying, hold on a minute here. This was handled a little differently.
 
HONIG:  Yes. So, two of the IRS agents who worked on this case have testified in front of Congress. And the gist of what they've said is that the U.S. attorney here was constantly hamstrung, limited and marginalized by DOJ. They said basically he was held back from doing this case fully.
 
Now, let's look at the U.S. attorney, David Weiss. He was a longtime federal prosecutor, served under administrations of both parties. He is a Trump nominee, got this job in 2018 with the support, I should note, of both of Delaware's Democratic U.S. Senators and Joe Biden, President Biden, when he took over in 2021, left David Weiss in place.
 
Now, Weiss has somewhat responded to these allegations. He has written a letter to Congress saying, I have been granted ultimate authority over this matter. So, he said, I was in charge. But the question is, did he head off any avenues of investigation, which brings up this. These are the questions that ultimately David Weiss, we now know, has agreed to testify in front of Congress. And I think the questions, first of all, why did this take five years? This is not a five-year --
 
HILL:  I know you've been asking this for a long time.
 
HONIG:  Absolutely not a five-year investigation. Was this slow played? Did he in fact have unfettered authority? He said he did. But, separately, were there any investigative avenues that were cut off? And that's the most important allegation that the IRS whistleblowers have made that has not yet been addressed.
 
HILL:  The other thing I want to ask you about is we've learned that former -- a couple of former Trump administration officials have now met with the special counsel about Trump's efforts to overturn the results of the 2020 election. So, we're talking about Chris Krebs, Richard Donoghue. When you see the fact that we now know they have met with the special counsel, what does this tell you?
 
HONIG:  Once again, Erica, this goes to intent. Chris Krebs, of course, was in charge of cybersecurity. He said, publicly, this election was secure, then he was fired. That's why they want to talk to him.
 
Richard Donoghue is really important. He was a high-ranking DOJ official. And he -- let's remember what he testified when he went in front of the January 6th committee. Let's take a quick lesson to that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FMR. REP. ADAM KINZINGER (R-IL):  You also noted that Mr. Rosen said to Mr. Trump, quote, DOJ can't and won't snap its fingers and change the outcome of the election. How did the president respond to that, sir?
 
RICHARD DONOGHUE, FORMER ACTING DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL:  He responded very quickly and said, essentially, that's not what I'm asking you to do. What I'm just asking you to do is just say it was corrupt and leave the rest to me and the Republican congressman.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HONIG:  Just say it was corrupt and leave the rest to me and the Republican Congressman. Richard Donoghue has a handwritten note to that effect from when he got that statement from the president. That's really important to prosecutors.
 
HILL:  All right, we're watching all this. Elie, I appreciate it, as always. Thank you. Poppy?
 
HARLOW:  This just in. Rudy Giuliani is conceding, this is in a court filing, that he made defamatory statements about two Atlanta-area election workers. Giuliani made the concession in an effort to resolve a lawsuit against him brought by Ruby Freeman and her daughter, Shaye Moss. You'll remember them.
 
Former President Trump and his then personal attorney Giuliani targeted, says Giuliani targeted them after the 2020 election by tweeting this surveillance video insinuating wrongdoing.
 
Giuliani also repeated the lies when he answered questions by the January 6th committee.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER TRUMP LAWYER:  Ruby Freeman and Shaye Freeman Moss and one other gentleman, quite obviously, surreptitiously passing around USB ports as if they're vials of heroin or cocaine.
 
I mean, it's obvious to anyone who's a criminal investigator or prosecutor they're engaged in surreptitiously illegal activity again that day.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  Freeman and Moss also testified before the committee on the toll that those statements by Giuliani, false statements he's now conceding, had on their lives.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RUBY FREEMAN, FORMER GEORGIA ELECTION WORKER:  I've lost my name and I've lost my reputation. I've lost my sense of security all because a group of people starting with number 45 and his ally, Rudy Giuliani, decided to scapegoat me and my daughter, Shaye.
 
WANDREA SHAYE MOSS, FORMER GEORGIA ELECTION WORKER:  I don't want to go anywhere. I second guess everything that I do. It's affecting my life in a major way, in every way, all because of lies.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[07:15:00]
 
HARLOW:  CNN Senior Crime and Justice Reporter Katelyn Polantz is with us. I was just thinking that was some of the most compelling, memorable testimony that that entire committee and the public heard. And now Giuliani is conceding what he said wasn't true?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER:  Yes. Well, Poppy, this is a really unusual and a very legally tricky move that Giuliani is trying to make here in court. Essentially, he's trying to make this lawsuit from Ruby Freeman and Shaye Moss where they accuse him of defaming them. He's trying to make it go away. And the way he's doing that is that he's conceding that, yes, he did make these false statements about these women after the 2020 election. He's also saying that he acknowledges that those statements can be defamatory, that they were defamatory.
 
But he's trying to avoid his own accountability here by saying in this court filing late last night that his statements mean that he shouldn't necessarily have to pay damages to them because his statements alone might not be what was hurting these women. And also, he's trying to say that what he was saying after the 2020 election is still protected speech, First Amendment constitutionally protected speech.
 
Now, this is, like I said, a highly unusual filing. And it's the type of filing I have never seen before in a civil lawsuit. It's normally the sort of thing you might try and do in a criminal context, but this is a lawsuit he's facing.
 
And so a judge has to look at this now. She has to determine whether this is going to be an acceptable way to resolve this lawsuit. And also I've reached out to the lawyer for Ruby Freeman and Shaye Moss to see if it's acceptable to them as well. They had tried. To make some sort of settlement with Giuliani before, and it didn't amount to anything.
 
And so how this actually factors in here at a time where Giuliani is facing a lot of possibilities himself, a lot of risk with this lawsuit, how it resolves, that is really unclear.
 
HARLOW:  And does it factor into the special counsel's investigation? We know from the reporting that you guys had yesterday that they now have all of these Giuliani documents.
 
POLANTZ:  Yes, I mean, that is going to be the question going forward here, because what he's doing in this filing, like I said, it's in a civil lawsuit, and so he keeps writing that he's making these concessions about making these statements, making these defamatory statements, making false statements about the 2020 election for the purposes of this litigation. So, he's trying to confine it just to this case.
 
What it means to the special counsel is really going to be something that the prosecutors will have to decide. And, of course, not only do they have all those documents from his close colleague, Bernie Kerik, they also have sat down with Rudy Giuliani as investigators looking into criminal activity around the 2020 election.
 
He spoke to them twice, and we just don't know what he told them or how that conversation went about what was said in Georgia and what Giuliani specifically was saying about Ruby Freeman and Shaye Moss after the 2020 election.
 
HARLOW:  Katelyn Polantz, thank you so much for the reporting.
 
Elie Honig is with us. Thought?
 
HONIG:  Well, Rudy Giuliani is trying to cut his losses here. It is, as Katelyn said, remarkable to see someone in a defamation lawsuit admit, yes, what I said was false. This is one of his most despicable, over the top lies. What he seems to be trying to do is limit this to this question of was it constitutionally protected speech. You have a lot of range when it comes to First Amendment political speech, but I cannot even conceive of how you justify attacking innocent civilian poll workers falsely like this.
 
HILL:  So, that further that he said it, right, he wants to be protected, but he won't concede that these statements actually caused damages.
 
HONIG:  Yes.
 
HILL:  That's where that's falling under, right? Hey, you can't prove that what I said actually made your life a living hell, even if you said it.
 
HONIG:  Right. Even though their lives were made living hells, he's going to blame other people. He's going to say, well, other people sort of said similar things about you and jumped on the bandwagon. I mean, this is a sort of desperate, last second gas to try to limit his own liability here. It's really an astonishing concession by Rudy. HARLOW:  Elie, thank you.
 
HILL:  We'll see if it works.
 
HARLOW:  Yes.
 
HILL:  Elie, thanks.
 
HARLOW:  LeBron James' son this morning is in stable condition after he collapsed and suffered cardiac arrest during basketball practice. Dr. Sanjay Gupta here to explain what may have happened.
 
HILL:  And we're now learning the U.S. Marine veteran who was released by Russia in a prisoner swap last year had made his way to Ukraine to fight in the war there. He's now been evacuated after being wounded on the battlefield. What we know about his condition, ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:20:00]
 
HILL:  This morning, Bronny James, the eldest son of NBA star LeBron James, is recovering after suffering a cardiac arrest on Tuesday. He was rushed to the hospital by ambulance. This is after he lost consciousness. It happened at basketball practice at the University of Southern California. His family says the 18-year-old is now in stable condition. He is no longer in the ICU.
 
CNN's Omar Jimenez joining us now with more. Has the family spoken at all yet about what they think may have caused this cardiac arrest?
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  At this point, they haven't. That's, of course, the major question here, because depending on what happens could implicate the future, of course, of Brody, who's been this bright young star not to completely aside from the fact that he's the son of LeBron James. Because as they screen if this turns out it was some sort of condition that obviously has longer implications or if this was something that was very acute.
 
We've seen players come back from this before, but right now, there are more questions than answers as to the future of Bronny James.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIMENEZ (voice over):  This is what Bronny James has been known for as of late. It's what made the son of LeBron James a McDonald's All- American and among the newest stars at University of Southern California.
 
But it was during a practice at USC that he suddenly had a cardiac arrest Monday morning, according to a family spokesperson. Medical staff was able to treat Bronny and take him to the hospital.
 <br>[07:25:01]
 
He is now in stable condition and no longer in ICU. LeBron and Savannah wished to publicly send their deepest thanks and appreciation to the USC medical and athletic staff for their incredible work and dedication to the safety of their athletes.
 
LeBron, a very visible figure throughout Bronny's journey to USC.
 
RACHEL NICHOLS, HOST, SHOWTIME HEADLINERS WITH RACHEL NICHOLS:  It's really been such a constant companionship, not just as Bronny has grown up, but as LeBron has grown up into the athlete that we know him to be today.
 
JIMENEZ:  Reaction and concern from across the sports world has poured in. Magic Johnson wrote, we are praying and hoping he makes a full and speedy recovery. Damar Hamlin, who suffered his own cardiac arrest during an NFL game in January, wrote something similar. Here for you guys, just like you have been for me. Shaquille O 'Neal's son, Shareef, who battled a heart condition that sidelined him from basketball temporarily, reacted to the news on Instagram simply commenting, no, no.
 
There's no evidence Bronny's situation is similar to his, but moving forward, there are still major questions surrounding what exactly happened to one of the brightest new stars in the game.
 
DR. JONATHAN KIM, DIRECTOR OF SPORTS CARDIOLOGY, EMORY UNIVERSITY: Sudden cardiac arrest and death is rare in young competitive athletes, but these cases are tragic and they do occur.
 
There are nuances we know that based off of sex, self-identified race, even sport-type risk can differ among different athletes, but it is important to note that, thankfully, these cases are really quite rare.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIMENEZ (on camera):  Now, as rare as they are, this is actually the second time in as many years at USC with USC basketball that they've dealt with something like this. About a year ago, Vince Iwuchukwu, who's forward on the team, suffered a cardiac arrest and now he was treated, and months later, he was able to make a comeback.
 
So, from a basketball perspective, I think there are a lot of people that that are hoping that that can happen here as well. But, obviously, with so little information, this is also a family decision on potentially what the long-term health implications are here and we're just going to have to see what those are.
 
HILL:  Yes, absolutely. Omar, I appreciate it. Thank you.
 
JIMENEZ:  Of course.
 
HARLOW:  Let's bring in CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta. Sanjay, good morning. Obviously, we all think about you and your coverage of Damar Hamlin, wasn't that long ago, different circumstance here. But now, you have another young athlete at the prime of health, right, and this happens. We know it's rare. The question now is why, right? DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  That's right. And, you know, I think that that's what's probably happening in the hospital now. We know that he was in the intensive care unit because, obviously, right after a cardiac arrest, they wanted to make sure he was stabilized, but they were able to quickly do that. And now, it is, as you say, the question of trying to figure out what happened here.
 
Some context, you know, going back to a study from 2015, we know that, again, rare, but just to give you some numbers, about 6,000 to 7,000 times a year, you do see these out of hospital sudden cardiac arrests in young athletes. Sports involved, you know, 39 percent of the time if people are under the age of 18, it's still involved about 13 percent of the time as you get older. If you get older than that, you know, 35 years and older, then you have related concerns due to coronary arteries, which can become blocked or occluded leading to a heart attack. That's not what this is here.
 
So, sudden cardiac arrest does happen, rare, but these are the sorts of numbers that we're talking about.
 
HILL:  Sanjay, too, just a reminder, as we're talking about cardiac arrest, important to note this isn't a heart attack. In fact, there are two different things. A heart attack can lead to cardiac arrest, but this is not what has happened here, as far as we know.
 
GUPTA:  Yes. So, let me just show you, because this comes up quite a bit. When we talk about a heart attack, there are these blood vessels that are on top of the heart over here called the coronary blood vessels. They actually supply blood flow to the heart. So, when you have a heart attack, you think of that more like a circulation problem. One of these arteries becomes blocked, heart muscle tissue dies, and that can lead to the heart attack.
 
With a sudden cardiac arrest, it usually, seemingly comes out of nowhere. You might have an abnormality with some of the muscles of the heart or there could be an electrical problem with the heart. The electrical issues of the heart allow the chambers of the heart to beat in a coordinated fashion. If that gets thrown off for some reason, then you might have a sudden cardiac arrest.
 
Someone goes pulseless, they become unconscious. Oftentimes, they require defibrillation and getting to a hospital, as it seems to have happened with Bronny.
 
HARLOW:  So, recovery, what does that look like, Sanjay? Can he get back to where he was?
 
GUPTA:  That is a big question. I mean, I think the biggest good news in all this was how quickly he got out of the ICU. You may remember with Damar Hamlin, it was a few days before he got out of the ICU.
 
We have heard of players who have been in the ICU even longer from sudden cardiac arrest and were able to return to play.
 <br>[07:30:02]
 
But I think it's too speculative to say at this point what exactly caused this underlying problem.