Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Aviation Industry Addresses "Culture of Silence" Around Mental Health; The Most Popular Wikipedia Pages Of 2023 Reflect Trends Around The World. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired December 08, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine. Welcome to the show. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. Happy Friday, Friyay. Let`s finish this week strong, 
 
 take great energy, good vibes into the weekend. 
 
We begin today with the airline industry, as it`s seeing an increasing amount of employees shortage and burnout. During the pandemic, many 
 
 aviation workers were furloughed. Then as the pandemic waned and airplanes returned to the skies, Airlines struggled to restaff quickly enough to 
 
 match demand. This has caused staffing shortages schedule confusion and long days on the job for some, sometimes working more than 14 hours in a 
 
 day. 
 
Plus, according to the U.S. federal aviation administration, there has been an increase in disruptive passenger incidents. These issues aren`t limited 
 
 to pilots and flight attendance either, even air traffic controllers have been impacted as their workers union president recently told Congress 
 
 they`ve been understaffed and overworked. 
 
All this stress has led to growing concerns over the mental health of aviation industry workers. This issue was put front and center in the case 
 
 of Joseph Emerson, an off-duty pilot, who was charged with trying to crash an Alaska airlines flight from inside the cockpit in October.
 
Emerson later told police he`d been battling depression. The FAA has now announced a new committee that will seek to identify and remove any 
 
 remaining barriers that discourage pilots from reporting and seeking care for mental health issues like depression or anxiety. 
 
The National Transportation Safety Board recently had a round table discussion with aviation and medical experts on addressing the topic of 
 
 pilot`s mental health. Our Karin Caifa has more for us from the summit.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JENNIFER HOMENDY, CHAIR, NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD:  I do want to acknowledge that this can be a difficult topic for some.
 
KARIN CAIFA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The National Transportation Safety Board leading an expert discussion on pilots and mental health.
 
HOMENDY:  Let me be clear, the safety risk comes from a culture of silence around mental health, not about seeking help.
 
CAIFA:  Recent research from the University of North Dakota found more than half of pilots avoid seeking healthcare of some type fearing they`ll lose 
 
 their FAA medical certification and their ability to fly. That includes mental health concerns from which experts emphasize pilots are not immune.
 
DR. EMANUAL ROBINSON, HUMAN FACTORS PSYCHOLOGIST, AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION:  They`re dealing with their people too. You know, they`re 
 
 dealing with their families, they`re dealing with their stresses. And now they`re also having to -- to get people to where they need to be during the 
 
 holiday season, which also can be very stressful. 
 
CAIFA:  The case of Joseph Emerson, an off-duty pilot indicted Tuesday on 84 counts in an Oregon court accused of trying to shut off the engines of a 
 
 plane mid-flight in October, put the issue of pilot mental health front and center. Emerson told police he`d been depressed for months if not years, 
 
 his defense team said he never intended to hurt or put anyone at risk. The government looking to balance passenger safety with the wellbeing of pilots 
 
 and other aviation workers.
 
HOMENDY:  It`s not just the right thing to do, it`s the safe thing to do. What`s unsafe is pretending the status quo is acceptable.
 
CAIFA:  On Tuesday, the FAA announced a special committee to explore changes to pilot mental health rules, aiming to break down barriers to 
 
 disclosure and seeking help.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Next up, did you hear who was just named Time Magazine`s 2023 Person of the Year? Global Superstar Taylor Swift. Swift beat out eight other 
 
 finalists, which included Barbie and King Charles III.  Swift has been dominating stages across the globe with her Eras Tour and movie theaters 
 
 with her concert film. Oh, and she also broke Spotify`s record for most single day streams by any artist. 
 
Billboard says Swift is the first entertainer to ever win Time Magazine`s Person of the Year as the award is traditionally gone to activists or 
 
 politicians.
 
Check out Taylor Swift`s tweet about the news, Time Magazine says we`d like to name you Person of the Yea -- 
 
Taylor says, can I bring my cat.
 
Well, all right, meow. There is some other super talented female entertainers crushing it this year in ticket sales as well. Here`s Maribel 
 
 Aber with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARIBEL ABER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  From pop superstars to athletes, women dominated the ticket business this year according to StubHub. Taylor Swift 
 
 led the way, but Beyonce, Pink, and Adele also had big years of ticket sales. And for the first-time demand for tickets to the women`s final four 
 
 college hoops championship was higher than demand for the men`s matchup. Another sign of the rise of women`s sports, the University of Nebraska`s 
 
 women`s volleyball team, they drew 92,000 fans to an August match.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Ten second trivia.  
 
In 1789, Frederick A.C. Muhlenberg became the first person elected as U.S. Speaker of the House. What year was the first woman elected to that 
 
 position? 
 
1850, 1980, 2007, 2021?
 
If you said 2007, put your hands up. Nancy Pelosi of California became the first woman Speaker of the House more than 200 years after the position was 
 
 established. 
 
Former House Speaker, Kevin McCarthy is resigning from Congress and will leave at the end of this year. McCarthy made the announcement in a Wall 
 
 Street Journal Op-Ed. This comes just two months after his unprecedented ouster from the speakership post. McCarthy`s decision will narrow the House 
 
 GOPs already slim majority. 
 
Now, let`s turn to a beloved website. One, many universities say you should definitely not cite as a source for your next research paper, though. 
 
 Wikipedia it`s released this top 25 most viewed pages in 2023, given us a glimpse into the curious minds across the world. Coming in first place with 
 
 over 49 million views in 2023 was ChatGPT showing the world`s growing interest in artificial intelligence. 
 
The second most viewed page was a list of biographical posts about people who passed away in 2023. And coming in both third and fourth places were 
 
 post related to cricket, highlighting how India and Southeast Asia`s growing audiences are influencing the internet. 
 
In fact, Hindi language movies like Johan and Pathan made the list alongside American blockbusters like Oppenheimer and 
 
 Barbie. 
 
I`d love to know what`s the last thing you search for on Wikipedia. 
 
All right if you have acrophobia or fear of heights, today`s stories getting the 10 out of 10s might not be for you. Take it away. Jeanne Moos.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  Two stories in, both many stories high, an American daredevil named Brian Grubb, wake skated the 
 
 length of a rooftop pool in Dubai, towed by a drone and then launched from the 77th floor.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Brian`s off the ramp.
 
MOOS:  When he went off, the board stayed tethered to the drone and Brian stayed in free fall for about six seconds until his shoot opened. He then 
 
 floated down to the beach for a soft landing.
 
BRIAN GRUBB, WAKESKATER/BASE JUMPER:  And this idea started about 10 years ago or so just as a pipe dream, you know, and we just pulled off the 
 
 sickest thing I`ve ever done on a wakeskate, for sure. 
 
MOOS:  You know what else he`d probably laugh at? This, the beam. It`s the latest attraction, the top 30 Rockefeller Center in New York, even some at 
 
 home say just watching this gave me anxiety. The ideas for visitors to recreate that famous photo of the iron workers who built 30 rock on a beam, 
 
 eating lunch, minus the lunch to get up to the roof and take this three- minute ride cost about 60 bucks. The beams, there are two of them go up 12 feet, then rotate.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You are now facing Central Park. 
 
MOOS:  The price includes a photo, now everyone has an excuse to say. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Scotty Beam is up fast.
 
MOOS:  The Scream Beam and the Epic Leap have one thing in common. Both are -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Energizing.
 
MOOS:  Jeanne Moos, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Adventures like those are not for everybody, but we hope they remind and inspire you to maximize your moments. Only 86,400 seconds in a day so 
 
 be curious, explore, have fun. Tell your friends and loved ones, you love them. 
 
We have love for you. Thanks for subscribing and commenting all week. This shout out goes to the Bulldogs in Ms. Porter`s class at San Rafael High in 
 
 San Rafael, California. What up Elijah? And shine brightly like a diamond. There we go. To all the links in Mrs. Blevins class at Diamond High School 
 
 in Anchorage, Alaska, rise up. Going out makes someone smile today. Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. It`s been a 
 
 blessing to spend this week with you.
 
END