Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: IDF Opens 7-Hour Safe Corridor Near Embattled Hospital; Arad And Islamic Leaders Accuse Israel Of War Crimes; IDF Denies Gaza's Al- Shifa Hospital Is Under Siege; Pro-Palestinian Protesters Gather At Biden's Delaware Home; House Speaker Unveils Two Step Funding Plan. Aired 5-6a ET

Aired November 12, 2023 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[05:00:38]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN HOST: Hello and welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. 
 
Ahead on CNN Newsroom, a critical situation unfolding in Gaza as intense fighting continues around Gaza's biggest hospital. I'll speak to Palestine's Red Crescent Society about the situation on the ground. 
 
Plus -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PROTESTERS: Ceasefire now, ceasefire now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Pro-Palestinian rallies growing around the world this weekend, including a march outside President Biden's home in Delaware. We'll look at the global demonstrations. And U.S. women's soccer giant Megan Rapinoe took her final bow on the pitch last night. CNN's Sports Coy Wire joins me with a look at her painful swan song. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber. 
 
BRUNHUBER: It's 5 a.m. here in Atlanta, noon in Gaza, where we've just received word, another medical facility, the Al-Quds Hospital in Gaza City, is now out of service. That's according to a statement from the Palestine Red Crescent. 
 
A seven-hour corridor opened about three hours ago for people to evacuate to the south, especially from around another health care institution, the embattled Al-Shifa Hospital. The IDF says the route will stay open until 4 p.m. local time, about four hours from now. 
 
Gaza's largest hospital has been caught for days in the middle of fierce fighting between Israeli troops and Hamas. And with some 20,000 people sheltered in and around the hospital, the situation is desperate. The Hamas-controlled health ministry in Gaza said three newborn babies
 
 have died since Friday night at Al-Shifa Hospital after nearby shelling knocked out a generator supplying oxygen to the neonatal unit. Gaza Health official tells CNN the other infants were hand carried to operating rooms which still had oxygen. 
 
Now, like other hospitals across Gaza, Al-Shifa is nearly out of food, water, medicine, fuel, and electricity with staff often working by flashlight. 
 
The IDF denies the hospital is under siege or that it's been hit by Israeli forces. Here's what the Prime Minister had to say on Saturday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: Israeli Army forces have completed the encircling of the Gaza Strip. They are working now inside the city, outskirts of Al-Shifa Hospital. They killed 2,000 terrorists, including senior commanders who are among those who led this terrible massacre on the Saturday, the 7th October. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Meanwhile, Gaza authorities at the Rafah Crossing into Egypt say it will open in the coming hour so people with foreign passports can leave if they're on a pre-approved list. 
 
Meanwhile, dozens of Arab and Islamic leaders have issued a joint declaration accusing Israel of committing war crimes, and quote, "barbaric, brutal, and inhumane massacres in Gaza." 
 
Now, this is the result of the joint Arab-Islamic Extraordinary Summit in Riyadh on Saturday. The meeting ended with calls for an immediate ceasefire and a rejection of Israel's description of the war as self- defense. 
 
The Islamic leaders are demanding the International Criminal Court investigate what it calls crimes against humanity in Gaza. 
 
Now, CNN Correspondents are covering all the angles, with Eleni Giokos joining us from Cairo with more on the summit. 
 
But let's begin with Paula Hancocks in Seoul, who has covered the Middle East extensively as our Jerusalem Correspondent. So Paula, when it comes to hospitals in Gaza, dire situations seemingly becoming worse by the hour and the biggest worry is for the youngest, the most vulnerable, like premature babies. And there is a plan to try to save them. What more are we learning? 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Kim, it's been described as a catastrophic situation that is simply getting worse. At this point, what we have heard from inside Al-Shifa Hospital, the largest hospital in Gaza from a senior health official, is that they did have to transport by hand without incubators, 36 newborn babies that were in the neonatal departments overnight, and they have taken them into the oxygen still being used in the operating theatres. The reason they had to be moved is a generator was taken out, as you
 
 mentioned, and three newborn babies were killed and they were unable to breathe. 
 
Now, we had been hearing from health officials that they had been manually respirating for these babies. So doctors effectively pumping air into their lungs. So the latest we've heard from these 36 -- about these 36 babies that they are in the operating theater, we have heard from the Israeli Defense Force on Saturday, the Israeli military saying that they would help to evacuate them, the Al-Shifa had asked for their cooperation, that they would give that with looking for clarification on exactly what that would look like. 
 <br>[05:05:30]
 
Because as we hear from those within the hospital, we understand that there is fighting in the vicinity. The Israeli military saying that they are fighting Hamas operatives in the vicinity, although not firing towards the hospital itself. 
 
Now, we also did hear that there is an evacuation corridor, a seven- hour window in place from the north to the south of the Gaza Strip along Salah al-Din street today. And part of that evacuation corridor will be from Al-Shifa Hospital as well. We do know there are 400 patients. There are some 20,000 internally displaced, taking refuge in the compound itself. 
 
But we did speak to a representative from the Red Cross earlier, and she did point out that even having an evacuation corridor does not make this process simple. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALYONA SYNENKO, ORC SPOKESPERSON, ISRAEL &amp; OCCUPIED TERRITORIES: How can you safely move across the war zone, premature babies, people on life support? We've seen these horrendous images of people walking on food, on wheelchairs, wounded people, trying to cross into southern Gaza, searching for minimum safety. But it's hard to imagine how this can take place without further loss of human life. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANCOCKS: Other hospitals in northern Gaza are completely overwhelmed as we understand that the second largest hospital in Gaza, the Al-Quds Hospital is now out of service. Palestine Red Crescent Society is saying that the restoration of services is due to the depletion of available fuel and power outage, that the medical staff made every effort to continue to treat the wounded, but they simply are unable to now because of the dire humanitarian conditions. No word on what will happen to the patients within that hospital and of course many thousands likely to be sheltering close to the hospitals as they have been in Gaza as well. 
 
And then one more development to update you on, Kim, we heard from the UNDP, the U.N. Development Program saying that one of their facilities had come under shelling and they are deeply distressed by reports that there have been casualties, saying that reportedly there has been a significant number of deaths and injuries at this facility. It's a facility the U.N. had left back in the 13th of October, the officials of the U.N. had to evacuate but many had gone there thinking it would be a safer area. Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, Paula Hancocks in Seoul. Thank you so much. 
 
We'll turn now to Eleni Giokos, who's joining me now from Cairo. So Eleni, I'm turning to the summit of Arab and Islamic leaders. We heard strong words of condemnation emerging from that meeting. What else came from it? 
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Look, very strongly worded resolution and here's the thing. I mean, we've heard the reiteration of the ceasefire, the talks and of course that are happening behind the scenes are very integral in trying to find a solution to this. 
 
Arab and Muslim leaders meeting in Saudi Arabia yesterday for this emergency discussion in terms of what's happening in Gaza. And it's really interesting. It's a list of demands and condemnation. They're calling Israel's actions in Gaza a war crime. They're calling it barbaric and inhumane massacres that are playing out. And of course condemning the occupation in the West Bank and East Jerusalem as well. 
 
But in the lead up to the summit, there was a lot of expectation and hope that you would see multilateral reaction, tangible response to the situation for intervention. And there has been a bit of disappointment in terms of the action plan. Because while they're condemning and reiterating a lot of their demands, very little is actually put on paper in terms of real action that could be taken by the leadership. 
 
They have the power to freeze Israel diplomatically, economically and politically as well. We've been hearing talk about potential sanctions on oil and gas that didn't come through. In fact, they're calling on the U.N. Security Council to intervene. We know that anything that happens at the U.N. Security Council regarding Israel bears no consequence. And of course, asking for the ICC to investigate war crimes, which of course the ICC has already stipulated they plan to do so. 
 <br>[05:10:06]
 
But it was the Mohammed bin Salman that talks about the humanitarian catastrophe, the dire situation that, you know, Paula was just describing, talking about how that is weighing on the region and how everyone is taking notes in terms of which countries are supplying arms to Israel and which countries are staying silent. I want you to take a listen to what he has to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MOHAMMED BIN SALMAN, SAUDI CROWN PRINCE: We are witnessing a humanitarian catastrophe that demonstrates the failure of the Security Council and the International Community to put an end to the flagrant Israeli violations of international laws and norms and international humanitarian law. It confirms the double standards and selectivity in its application of these laws. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: Yeah, so you're hearing, you know, very strong words there in terms of the way that international law is being implemented in this case. And this is where the conversation is heading. 
 
Look, you had a lot of diplomatic discussions happening over the past few weeks, specifically here in Cairo on Thursday. Hamas leadership was in town the same day, the CIA Chief was in town as well. Qatar has been very integral in mediating key breakthroughs in terms of getting people out of Gaza and also the release of hostages. 
 
But as we know, as these diplomatic discussions occur behind the scenes, anything that happens in Gaza has the power to derail what we see on the diplomatic front. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, I appreciate it. Eleni Giokos, in Cairo, thank you so much. 
 
Well, as we mentioned, the Israeli military says Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza isn't under siege despite what staff there are reporting. They say the IDF will help anyone who wants to leave there safely. Here's their spokesperson. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LT. COL. JONATHAN CONRICUS, IDF SPOKESPERSON: We are in contact with local authorities in Gaza, with the manager and others, and assisting them and informing them where they can go in order to evacuate from the area. And we are also trying to coordinate the safe removal and transport of the remaining patients that are still inside the hospital. 
 
I want to emphasize we haven't struck the hospital and we are not surrounding it or applying any pressure on it. We have troops in the vicinity, but we have not been engaging with the hospital or any parts of it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, I want to bring in Nebal Farsakh, the Spokesperson for the Palestine Red Crescent Society. Thanks so much for being here with us. So we just heard there from the IDF saying about Al-Shifa Hospital, that they're not striking or surrounding the hospital. Does that tally with what your people are telling you? 
 
NEBAL FARSAKH, SPOKESPERSON, PALESTINE RED CRESCENT SOCIETY: Basically, our people are now located at Al-Quds Hospital. This has been seventh day over a week. Al-Quds Hospital has been isolated from the surrounding area because of the continuous bombardments that is taking place, as well as the complete closure of all roads that lead to Al-Quds Hospital. 
 
No one can go out of Al-Quds Hospital. No can come in Al-Quds Hospital. Unfortunately, the aid has been not getting in, which has resulted in a dire situation inside the hospital. Just a half an hour ago, we have announced Al-Quds Hospital is now out of service due to completely running out of fuel and the complete cut of the electricity. 
 
Our teams now are trying their best to continue providing urgent healthcare service to those who are wounded and injured people inside the hospital, even with traditional ways, until we can find a way to evacuate our patients safely, because as I mentioned, bombardments have been taking place over day and night. 
 
Yesterday, tanks were surrounding the hospital from all areas. They have open fire at Al-Quds Hospital, which has resulted in a number of injuries. The situation is extremely dangerous. We are extremely worried about the safety of our staff and patients, and, along with internally displaced people who are taking shelter inside the hospital. Now efforts and coordination have been made in order to find ways to evacuate our patients, our staff, safely outside of the hospital, particularly because, as I said, it has already announced out of service. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, I mean, if the people have to evacuate, the question is, where do they go? Where is safe right now? 
 
FARSAKH: Basically, there is no safe place in Gaza. We have announced this repeatedly. Unfortunately, we have run out of all solutions. And now that we have came to an end, unfortunately, sadly. So basically, we are coordinating efforts to see where we can evacuate our patients, taken into consideration that now in Gaza, only one hospital is operating and receiving cases, which is also in dire situations. 
 <br>[05:15:19]
 
So no way they will be able to receive our patients and wounded people. In north of Gaza, there is only two hospitals that are still operating. So we will try to find ways, if that's possible, to ensure the protection and the opening of a humanitarian corridor to allow the evacuation of our patients and the staff, maybe for the south to be received treatment at any of the hospitals there. 
 
Unfortunately, we feel so much sad because we have called on the international community. We have appealed to the international community and all the humanitarian agencies for over a month calling for, insure to allow the entry of aid to Gaza Strip and particularly to Gaza and the north. Unfortunately, all of these efforts have been unsuccessful. We have been left alone at the hospital at risk of losing the lives of our patients, losing the lives of our staff under continuous Israeli bombardments that is taking place day and night under complete isolation. 
 
This is the five days we have lost connection with our colleagues at Al-Quds Hospital because Israeli bombardments have resulted in a complete destruction of the communication and internet lines. The only way to get information from them is via the HF waves, which is encounter to regular distortion and cut. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, it's clearly a really, you know, fraught situation there for your staff who are just trying to provide service despite the hospital's not functioning. I understand as well that you're running out of ambulances as well. 
 
I want to touch on something that you just mentioned before we go, the idea of a ceasefire, at least a pause. I mean, the two sides are negotiating over a substantial pause in the fighting in exchange for a number of hostages. What difference would such a pause make for the work of the doctors and first responders? 
 
FARSAKH: Basically, up to this moment, regarding the -- even the humanitarian four hours ceasefire to allow the entry of aid, we have not noticed any difference because, as I said, Al-Quds hospital has been continue under intense bombardments even at those hours and staff were stuck inside the hospital. No one can go out or go in inside the hospital. The situation now in Gaza is so much dangerous. We only have seven ambulances left out of 18 ambulances who are running now in Gaza City, and basically five. Yes, I just notified they are now only five. So five ambulances out of 18 ambulances are still running in Gaza City and the North, those that are run by the Palestine Red Crescent. Our teams are reporting they have seen many people who are killed, many people who are injured in certain areas inside Gaza. 
 
But because of Israeli tanks, they are existed inside the cities and they are denying access of our emergency medical staff and ambulances. Any ambulance, any pharmacist try to reach those wounded people or killed people, they will be a target. That's why the situation is catastrophic. There is tens of people, dozens of people who are now just on the ground, no emergency, no ambulances can reach out to them. We call in the inter community to continue advocating to ensure delivery aid to Gaza City and the North. 
 
So those hospitals who are still operating can continue providing their life-saving services and also fuel will allow us even the leftover ambulances that are still operating will allow those ambulances to continue operating and save the lives of civilians. 
 
BRUNHUBER: A desperate situation for so many. We will have to leave it there, but appreciate hearing from you. Nebal Farsakh, thank you so much. 
 
If you want to help humanitarian relief efforts for Gaza and Israel, head to CNN.com./impact. You can find list of vetted organizations. They're answering the call on the ground there. That's CNN.com./impact.
 
All right, still to come, pro-Palestinian protesters gather outside U.S. President Biden's home in Delaware, echoing calls heard in the cities around the world for a ceasefire. And arrests are made in London after a counter-protest is staged against a pro-Palestinian rally. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:23:39]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PROTESTERS: Ceasefire now. Ceasefire now. Ceasefire now.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We'll charge you with genocide.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: On Saturday, a group of protesters gathered near present Biden's Delaware home calling for a ceasefire. One participant said it was the largest pro-Palestinian protest in Delaware's history. CNN's Kevin Liptak has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: The sizable protests occurred outside President Biden's home here in Delaware on Saturday. Pro-Palestinian protesters, hundreds of them marching in support of a ceasefire. President Biden didn't necessarily see them at close range, but it did mirror protests that the president has seen over the last two weeks, including earlier this week in Illinois when pro- Palestinian protesters lined the streets near an event that he was speaking at. 
 
But he's also been interrupted twice by people calling for a ceasefire, so certainly reflective of the growing anger among a certain portion of the American population at his handling of this conflict. And you see that playing out on the world stage as well. 
 
Just Saturday, the French President, Emmanuel Macron, calling for a ceasefire in Israel, saying that Israel's bombing of civilians in Gaza isn't justified in saying that he hoped other leaders including in the United States join him in calling ceasefire. 
 <br>[05:25:01]
 
We've also seen divides within the American Democratic Party. Just last week, 24 Democrats and two Independents, so a majority of the Democratic caucus in the Senate, writing a letter to President Biden asking for more details about that $14 billion request for emergency military assistance and asking for guarantees that Israel mitigate its killing of civilians in Gaza. So certainly this is all applying pressure on President Biden as he confronts this conflict. 
 
Of course, he has been standing shoulder to shoulder with Israel, certainly very supportive of its right to defend itself in what he calls a responsibility to go after Hamas. But you have seen some caution creeping into his remarks and into remarks from other top American officials, including the Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who just said this week that far too many Palestinians have died, and that much more needs to be done to protect civilian lives. 
 
What we have seen President Biden doing is pressing the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and what the U.S. calls humanitarian pauses. And they have seen the results to that effect just last week. Israel saying that it would enact four hour pauses every day to allow aid to go into Gaza to allow civilians who want to flee. President Biden, though, did reveal some discord with his Israeli counterpart when he was asked about those pauses, saying that he'd wished Netanyahu had agreed to them earlier. Kevin Liptak, CNN traveling with the President in Wilmington, Delaware.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Week after week, we're seeing demonstrations in support of the Palestinians and cities around the world. 
 
Protesters stormed a major train station in Barcelona. Police officers use shields and batons against the demonstrators. In Brussels more than 20,000 people marched in the Belgian Capitol calling for a ceasefire and the conflict. In Paris, demonstrators took to the streets demanding that the French government helped stop Israel's bombings in Gaza. 
 
In Berlin, thousands of protesters marched peacefully in the German capital. In London saw its biggest pro-Palestinian demonstrations so far on Saturday. Counter protesters also turned out and police say they arrested dozens of people. CNN's Clare Sebastian was there.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Organized and in one voice, tens of thousands of people took to London streets demanding a ceasefire in Israel Hamas war.
 
PROTESTERS: Ceasefire now. Ceasefire now. Ceasefire now. Ceasefire now.
 
SEBASTIAN: This March is beginning now in central London, but the final destination is the United States Embassy in South London. And that is the key here. The anger that we're hearing is mostly directed towards Western governments, and in particular, the United States for its support of Israel. 
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): The conflict now in its second month as seen Gaza and unrelenting Israeli bombardment in the weeks since Hamas launched its October 7 attack on Israel.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In one month, it's over 4000 children died. This is not normal. 
 
SEBASTIAN: And as people got ready to march in solidarity with Palestinians, others we're marking a second historic war.
 
Armistice Day the dates commemorating the de facto end of World War One. It was a crossover, some branded as insensitive. British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak initially attempted to stop the pro-Palestinian rally from going ahead.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Armistice Day is supposed to be about the end of the war and this is exactly what people are here for. We want to see an end to the war in Gaza and this is what we're supporting. 
 
SEBASTIAN: A heavy police presence had been promised in London Saturday and they did face challenges. Far Right counter protesters disrupted a two-minute silence observed for Armistice Day for clashing with police in central London. Police say they detained dozens of those counter protesters following scuffles.
 
For the pro-Palestinian demonstrators gathering outside the U.S. Embassy at the end of their march, emotions was starting to show.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I just want to say I'm Jewish, and I fully support this March and everything that's going on today. Why can't we all stand up for the Palestinians. 
 
SEBASTIAN: So despite the controversy in the lead up to this event, it has remained very organized, pretty peaceful, but the scale of it reflects what we're increasingly seeing as growing public mood that despite the horrific attacks of October 7, the response may have gone too far. Clare Sebastian, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: March against anti-Semitism is expected today in Paris. 
 <br>[05:30:06]
 
Hours after thousands marched there on Saturday calling for a ceasefire, now this comes as French President Emmanuel Macron hall is calling on people to stand up against what he calls the resurgence of unbridled anti-Semitism.
 
In a letter published in a French newspaper, Macron wrote that more than a thousand anti-Semitic acts were committed in the country in just one month saying members of the Jewish community experiencing legitimate anguish. The French President also this week called for a ceasefire saying, it's the quote, "only solution to end the conflict between Israel and Hamas."
 
All right so much more to come here on CNN newsroom, the families of Israeli hostages held by Hamas rallied in Tel Aviv, Saturday. We'll have that and talk with an expert about possible next steps. And Hezbollah says recent strikes across the Israeli border are in support of the Palestinian people, how Israel is responding. That's ahead 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: Welcome back to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is CNN Newsroom. 
 
I want to give you an update on the latest in Gaza. The Palestine Red Crescent announced a short time ago that another medical facility, the Al-Quds Hospital in Gaza City, has run out of fuel and can no longer function. 
 
The groups had doctors and staff are doing their best to take care of patients, but there's little they can do. A safe corridor for people to evacuate to the south is now open near another embattled facility, Al-Shifa Hospital. It's been caught in the middle of fierce fighting for days and the IDF has offered to help evacuate newborns and patients today. The IDF says the corridor south will remain open until 4 p.m. local time. 
 <br>[05:35:06]
 
Hamas is believed to be holding more than 230 hostages. On Saturday, large crowds gathered in Tel Aviv to demand the government to do more to get them released. 
 
H. A. Hellyer is a Senior Associate Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. And he joins us now from Cairo. Thanks so much for being here with us. So, to start on the hostages, we've seen negotiations for hostages work before, but the challenge here is so great because of the number of hostages involved and because it's coming in the context of an all-out war. How optimistic are you of a deal? 
 
H. A. HELLYER, SENIOR ASSOCIATE FELLOW, CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE: So there have been suggestions of a deal to release all the hostages, or at least most of the hostages, several times over the last couple of weeks. The Qataris indicated that they managed to get quite far in negotiations on this point, and you've seen reports within the Israeli press that hinted at much of the same. 
 
But everything that we've seen over the past couple of weeks indicates that because of the continuing bombardment, the lack of ceasefire, the lack of any pause in, frankly, the pummeling of Gaza by Israeli forces has made that incredibly difficult. 
 
Logistically speaking, of course, it's impossible, because there's no way that you can gather hostages in one place while the entirety of the area that you're in is being pounded from above. But then on top of that, just making negotiations incredibly difficult. 
 
The Israeli War Cabinet apparently rejected proposals of this nature, and they've seen fit to focus instead on essentially punishing the population in Gaza before they move forward on any hostage deal. 
 
And I think this is why you see growing protests within Israel itself of thousands upon thousands of people demanding that the hostages be brought home, and directing their anger at the Israeli government, because they see them as responsible for fulfilling that. 
 
BRUNHUBER: And you talk about how complicated these negotiations are, these negotiations are, a deal has to involve so many different parties. And then questions are also being asked around how much communication and control Hamas' political wing in Doha would have with the military wing, presumably, you know, hiding underground in Gaza right now. 
 
HELLYER: That is an aspect to it, but I think that the lines of communication are there. I think what's frankly the most crucial aspect is that as long as there is continued bombardment of Gaza by Israeli forces, then it becomes very difficult to imagine the ability of there to be constructive negotiations and mediation of this nature. Again, this has been something that has been brought up many times
 
 within the context of Israeli press and elsewhere. But Netanyahu and his government have made it very clear that their focus is really to pummel Gaza into submission, particularly the north. 
 
Then of course there are other associated factors here in terms of forcing a displacement of most, you know, Palestinians from the north, if not all of them down to the south. Israeli television yesterday just indicated that 1.7 out of 2.2 million Palestinians cannot go to their homes because they're either displaced or their homes have been destroyed or damaged. 1.7 million of 2.2 so that's the vast majority of the Palestinian population in Gaza, most of whom by the way are young people or children. It's against that backdrop that we then have this conversation around hostages. 
 
And one of the deals that was suggested about hostages was "all for all," where Palestinian prisoners that are in Israeli jails, many of whom again are minors or imprisoned for nonviolent offenses, that they would be released in exchange for the hostages. 
 
So far this has not been accepted and I think that this is another reason why you have these growing protests within Israel against the government because they recognize that there are options that are simply not being taken. 
 
BRUNHUBER: On the subject of diplomacy and negotiations, we're in the wake of this Arab and Islamic leaders summit. You know, CNN has reported that diplomatically the U.S. is at serious risk of losing the support of the Arab world over its support for Israel. We heard more of that during the summit. Many of them holding the U.S. accountable for what we're seeing now. It's something you've written about how this may affect the U.S.'s standing beyond the Middle East and the Arab world, but the whole global south?
 
HELLYER: I think that's very true, and I don't think that it should be understated. The fact of the matter is that you have diplomatic cables going out the U.S. embassies across the region, going back to D.C., expressing great concern at the standing of the U.S. across the Arab world. 
 <br>[05:40:09]
 
And I think you see much of the same across, "the global south." You see concerns in Brussels among many European governments, where they recognize that it will be very difficult as European countries, as the West to engage with countries in the global south and in the Arab world on issues that demand the common recognition of international law. Because frankly, they don't take it seriously. 
 
When we talk about occupation of Ukraine by Russian forces, they turn around and say, OK, maybe, but then why aren't you talking about the Israeli occupation of Gaza and the West Bank? 
 
When we talk about international humanitarian law being violated by the Russians in Ukraine, they turn around and say, but you're defending or you're excusing or you're covering for Israeli actions in Gaza. 
 
It's a very difficult argument to push back against because the fact of the matter is, is that the overwhelming majority of member states of the United Nations have voted consistently over the past month in one direction. And the United States and a few Western allies have voted in another direction alongside with Israel. 
 
So yes, I think credibility is a great problem here. It's particularly bad in terms of effect for European countries, because we have far more to lose in that regard. These are our neighbors. But the level of distrust, the level of antipathy is something that I think this is a once in a generation sort of moment. The last time something like this happened was the Iraq war in 2003. And we're still suffering the ramifications of that.
 
Today, in many ways is much worse because it's an age of social media. And we're all seeing these horrible scenes unfold on our phones, on our screens, on different social media platforms. And I don't think people will ever, ever forget. 
 
BRUNHUBER: We will have to leave it there, but really appreciate your insights. H.A. Hellyer in Cairo, thanks so much. 
 
HELLYER: Thank you. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Israel's Defense Minister is sending a strong warning to Lebanon after an intense day of cross-border fire, saying, "What we're doing in Gaza can also be done in Beirut." CNN's Ben Wedeman reports from Lebanon. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The low-intensity war between Hezbollah and Israel along the border is heating up with each side, striking deeper into the other's territory and using heavier weapons. 
 
Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah, speaking on the occasion of the group's Martyrs Day said, his militants have begun using attack drones for the first time against Israeli positions, and have fired, also for the first time, an Iranian designed Burkan missile, a short-range ballistic missile with an explosive payload of 500 kilograms or more than half a ton.
 
Saturday was perhaps the most intense day of cross border fire, with more than 30 individual incidents. Lebanon's official news agency reported that an Israeli drone struck a vehicle near the town of Zahrani, 40 kilometers, or 25 miles north of the border. The deepest such strike since the 2006 war between Israel and Hezbollah.
 
Referring to dozens of recent attacks by pro-Iranian militias on U.S. forces in Syria and Iraq, Nasrallah said if the Americans want to stop those attacks, if the U.S. doesn't want this to become a regional war, it must stop the war on Gaza. Commenting on the situation along the border, Saturday afternoon, Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant issued an ominous warning. What we're doing in Gaza, he said, we can also do in Beirut.
 
I'm Ben Wedeman, CNN, reporting from Tyre, Southern Lebanon.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, still to come the Republican Speaker of the House has a plan to keep the government running. Why his own party might shoot it down. That's coming up. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:47:08]
 
BRUNHUBER: The number of House Republicans say they still don't know how Speaker Mike Johnson is going to proceed when it comes to avoiding a government shutdown and that any decision he makes could have an impact on his ability to lead his conference going forward. 
 
Now this all comes as the Speaker has laid out his plans to keep the government running after stopgap funding runs out Friday. CNN's Annie Grayer reports, there's no guarantee he can even get it approved by his own party. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNIE GRAYER, CNN CAPITOL HILL REPORTER: House Speaker Mike Johnson unveiled his plan on Saturday for how he wants to keep the government open past the November 17th funding deadline. His plan breaks the government funding into two parts. Fund some of the government until January 19th, and the rest until February 2nd. It would keep funding at its current levels, and there would not be additional funding for wars in Israel or Ukraine. Members of the right flank wanted Johnson to take this two-step approach to government funding, but wanted Johnson to add spending cuts to his plan, which we do not see so far.
 
So, we are going to have to see how this plays out this week when it is expected to get a vote on the House floor. And the other unknown here is how the White House and the Senate, which is controlled by Democrats, is going to react to this plan. Annie Grayer, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: Still to come on CNN newsroom. U.S. Women Soccer Giant Megan Rapinoe took her final bow on the pitch last night. CNN's Sports Coy Wire joins me next with a look at why her swan song was short left. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:52:39]
 
BRUNHUBER: The soccer icon Megan Rapinoe suffers a shock early exit with an injury in her final professional match last night ending her quest for one final National Women's Soccer League title. With me now is CNN's Sports Coy Wire. Coy, not how anybody would want to script that. 
 
COY WIRE, CNN WORLD SPORT: Yeah, the two-time World Cup champ, Rapinoe, her teammates, her fans, they were all looking for this perfect ending to this storied career as her OL reign taken on. 
 
Gotham FC in the championship game, but just a couple minutes in, Kim, Rapinoe, you would see her here slip, non-contact injury. She said it felt like someone kicked her and she felt a huge pop. She said she's pretty sure she tore her Achilles. 
 
Rapinoe, she got a standing ovation as she walked off the field saying afterwards. This was the worst possible outcome that she's done playing, but she will still be involved with the game. 
 
Now, Gotham FC would go on to win. Spain's World Cup winner Esther Gonzalez, heading in the eventual game winner. Gotham wins two to one, their first ever NWSL title after finishing last place last season. Another U.S. soccer star, Ali Krieger. She goes out on a high as well. This was the final game of her story career as well. 
 
Now, 76ers guard Kelly Oubre is expected to miss significant playing time after being hit by a vehicle while walking near his home in downtown Philadelphia on Saturday. The 27-year-old was taken to the hospital and released a few hours later, Philadelphia police telling CNN that there is an active investigation into the incident. 
 
Let's talk some college football now. Number 10 Penn State hosting third ranked Michigan, who's without head coach Jim Harbaugh, suspended by the Big Ten Conference on Friday amid sign stealing accusations, currently under investigation by the NCAA. 
 
Offensive Coordinator Sherrone Moore, taking over, hoping to keep their championship hopes alive. And the Wolverines came through, grinding out a 24-to-15-win, 227 rushing yards, Michigan improving to 10 and 0 on the season afterwards. Moore breaking down, talking about the previous 24 hours that were filled with emotions. 
 
SHERRONE MOORE, MICHIGAN ACTING HEAD COACH: I want to thank the Lord. I want to thank Coach Harbaugh. I love you, man. I love you, man. This is for you. For this university, the President, our AD, we got the best players, best university, best alumni in the country. Love you guys. These guys right here, these guys right here, man. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[05:55:06]
 
WIRE: You two, Kim. Finally, the New York football giants, new starting quarterback, lives with his mom and dad. Yes, Tommy DeVito, only a 12-minute commute each day from his childhood home in Jersey to the practice facility where he plays for his hometown team. The 25- year-old, says that he doesn't have to worry about laundry, about what's for dinner, and that mom still makes his bed, Kim, his teammate, Joe Pesci, said, this is genius. Saves money, mom helps out, and make sure he's on time. No distractions, that is smart. BRUNHUBER: I mean it's cute, not something I would necessarily brag
 
 about and just -- if my son is watching I am not making your bed when you were that age. He's nine now. I won't even make his bed now, let alone.
 
WIRE: I love it.
 
BRUNHUBER: Although maybe if he's starting for the Giants, exception.
 
WIRE: Ring to it. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah. Thanks so much. I appreciate it. 
 
All right, well, before we go, the Beatles are back on the top of the U.K. charts, even though two of its members are no longer alive. 
 
(MUSIC)
 
BRUNHUBER: The Fab Four's new song, "Now and Then" hit number one after debuting earlier this month. It comes a record breaking 54 years after their last number one hit in 1969. Song mixes John Lennon's old demo, tweaked by AI to create a richer vocal track with an old George Harrison guitar track, new music by Paul and Ringo on drums. "Now and Then" is the fastest selling single in the U.K. so far this year. 
 
All right that wraps this hour of CNN Newsroom. I'm Kim Brunhuber. For viewers in North America, CNN This Morning is next, for the rest of the world, it's Marketplace Asia. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)