Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Study: Some May Be Able To Wait Longer Between Colonoscopies; FL Governor Blocks African Studies Course, Claims It Breaks Law; Search Warrant Unsealed In Case Against Idaho Murder Suspect; 12-Year- Old Boy Reels In Great White Shark Off Florida Coast. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired January 19, 2023 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:32:20]
 
ERICA HILL, CNN HOST: So maybe a colonoscopy isn't number one on your list of things that you want to do in 2023 although we know how important it is. It's recommended you get one every 10 years. 
 
Now there's a new study that suggests some people may be able to wait longer between screenings. 
 
CNN chief medical correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta, joining us live. 
 
What are these findings? For a lot of people who didn't enjoy the prep, for example, they may not mind waiting 10 years in between? 
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Right. 
 
HILL: But it makes me a little nervous. I'll be honest. 
 
GUPTA: Well, first of all, I got to say I went through a colonoscopy not that long ago. No one looks forward to this, as you say. It wasn't that bad, though. 
 
The medications they give you, the Propofol -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
GUPTA: -- is pretty --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HILL: It's a nice nap, I agree. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
GUPTA: But this is an interesting study because this looks into I think a big issue in medical screenings like, what is the appropriate amount of screening, what is the right interval? And they decided to put this to the test.
 
So first of all, who should get a colonoscopy? Everyone 45 to 75. They lowered the age a few years ago, you may remember, Erica, from 50 to 45. 
 
But that's who should get it. People who are older than that, depending on their history, can talk to their doctor about it. 
 
The question was, they say, if you had a negative colonoscopy, how long do you wait then before the next one? And what they did in the study in Germany they looked at 120,000 of repeat colonoscopies and figured out how often did they catch something now.
 
And what they found was interesting. They stratified it women and mean.
 
And said, with women, they did another colonoscopy at 10 years, they're catching 3.6 percent of the people had an abnormality. They waited 14 years, it was 4.9 percent. 
 
And higher for men but still pretty small numbers. And also the younger you were, the less likely you were to have something pop up on the next colonoscopy as well. 
 
So that's what the data shows now, Erica, which is really interesting. It hasn't translated to any change. Ten years is still the recommendation. 
 
But looking at studies like this, they'll ask, should we start thinking about widening that interval? 
 
HILL: Which we've seen with other procedures. 
 
When you look at this, though, I would imagine that there's always the fear of somebody seeing this and says, I don't need a colonoscopy now, I can wait longer. The reality is colonoscopies are still really important. 
 
Who should be getting screened? 
 
GUPTA: Absolutely. And we're talking about the repeat colonoscopy here. If you look at the primary colonoscopy, the first colonoscopy, I think a very clear picture emerges. 
 
And, again, it's good data to look at because, what is the value of this? You're putting all these people through colonoscopies every year. What is the return on that? 
 <br>[13:35:02]
 
And what they find is that the estimated impact of colonoscopies sort of across the board is about a 40 percent reduction in terms of getting colon cancer. So they're finding polyps, for example, before they turn into cancer.
 
And the number on the right, Erica, 68 percent risk reduction in terms of dying from colon cancer. 
 
I mean, keep in mind this is the third-leading cause of death in the United States. Some 50,000 people die every year of colon cancer. Because of screening, those numbers have come down and could come down further the more people actually engage in those tests. 
 
HILL: Dr. Sanjay Gupta, always appreciate it. 
 
Again, as you said, it's thought that bad. Trust us, people, we've been through it. It's not that bad. 
 
Nice to see you, my friend. 
 
GUPTA: Thank you. 
 
HILL: Hair strands, a stained pillow, a black surgical glove. New details on what officials seized from the apartment of Bryan Kohberger. He, of course, is the man accused of murdering four Idaho college students. We'll bring you up to speed on the very latest there. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:40:32]
 
HILL: In Florida, Republican Governor Ron DeSantis is blocking an A.P. African-American studies class because, in his view, that high school course promotes Critical Race Theory, which goes against the state's, quote, "Stop WOKE Act."  
 
CNN's Sara Sidner is joining us. 
 
The Florida Department of Education also went on to say the course "significantly lacks educational value."  
 
Let's take a step back here. What is going on? 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Critical Race Theory has really come to signify something that it isn't. It's been kind of a catch-all phrase that people use for things they don't like. 
 
And the worry here on parents' part, you've seen blowups in school after school, district after district, parents worried that either white children are going to be treated differently, treated as if they are the oppressors, and black children are going to learn that they are the victims. 
 
That is the underlying fear that has been ginned up, frankly, by politicians and those who intend to make this a political point. 
 
This course in particular is -- the college board has reviewed this. They put it out in 60 schools and the schools have all tried this curriculum. Some of them, I'm sure, deciding to adopt it. 
 
Now, the college board is no small thing. It's actually the same board which runs the SAT and has been picking A.P. classes, which are advanced classes, for many, many, many years. 
 
HILL: And these are, too, right -- SIDNER: Yes.
 
HILL: -- for people who may not be in high school or been a while since they've been in high school.
 
Typically, these A.P. classes, you get college credit for taking those classes in high school, correct? 
 
SIDNER: That is correct. And because it's an advanced placement class, you can then take a test, an A.P. test, anyone familiar with taking A.P. and get a college credit for it. 
 
So it helps you get done with college quicker, which means it's a bit cheaper. 
 
So the issue is this WOKE Act that the governor of Florida has put in place where you cannot teach CRT, which is Critical Race Theory. 
 
I want to read something from one of the pre-eminent scholars of African-American history, but also, as he puts it, American history. 
 
This is Dr. Henry Louis Gates Jr saw this when he saw this came out. Here's what he said:
 
"Nothing is more dramatic than having the college board launch an A.P. course in a field that signifies ultimate acceptance and ultimate academic legitimacy."  
 
"A.P. African-American studies is not CRT. It's not the 1619 Project. It is a mainstream, rigorously vetted academic approach to a vibrant field of study."  
 
So you have one of the pre-eminent scholars on this who did documentary after documentary, who has said, look, you know, this is not what you are saying it is. 
 
HILL: Right.
 
SIDNER: But you're using this as a political lightning rod to stop students from being able to learn about American history. 
 
HILL: The fulsome history of this country, let's be honest -- I mean, I didn't learn a fulsome history of this country so it's important that we do that. 
 
The other thing that's interesting to me, I would like to know, A, what the college board is saying.
 
But, B, has any of this curriculum for the course, has it been made public, or have the governor or the Department of Education in Florida said what they think here is the specific issue? 
 
SIDNER: We have not seen the specifics. We don't know exactly what they are talking about. 
 
But they do make the statement that, if the curriculum is changed, that they will then think about adopting it. 
 
And this board has also been a board that, when they do this, they do make changes to the curriculum sometimes. So this may not be over. 
 
But it certainly sparked a lot of controversy hearing that something was going to be stopped when it's an advanced placement course. 
 
HILL: And a college course, right? In college, you should be thinking about bigger ideas, perhaps questioning things in correct. 
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
HILL: Which one would hope that you can do in a high school class as well. 
 
Not the last we've heard of this. 
 
SIDNER: Nope. 
 
HILL: Not the last of things being made political, that's for darn sure. 
 
And not the last we'll see of you, my friend. So happy to see you here.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HILL: Sara Sidner, thank you.
 
Today, we are learning some more about the disturbing evidence that led authorities to Bryan Kohberger. He, of course, is the man who is charged with stabbing four University of Idaho students killing them, those grisly murders.
 
The search warrant has just been unsealed. 
 
CNN's Jean Casarez joining us now to walk us through the new details. 
 
Jean, what more are we learning here? 
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We're learning a lot. And one thing, though, I want to say, because everything has unsealed, including the application for the certain warrant. 
 <br>[13:45:04]
 
And I found it very interesting that one reason they wanted to search his residence, besides the obvious.
 
Is they said, based on his phone records -- and his phone was turned off, we know that -- and the roads that he traveled, they think he may have gone from this very bloody horrific scene straight back to his apartment. 
 
That's one of the reasons they wanted to search it. 
 
Now, let's show everyone what the return says. What they got in that apartment. What they collected. 
 
First of all, there was a collection of dark red cuttings from a pillow of reddish-brown stain. There was part of a mattress cover with stains. 
 
There were several hair strands and even what they believe is an animal strand, hair strand. Remember, Kaylee had her dog there. 
 
There was a nitrate type black glove. And there were store receipts, including a Dickies tag. And Dickies is a manufacturer of work garments. And they were looking for black clothes. 
 
This is what they asked for. Let's show what they asked for. 
 
They asked for -- to be able to retrieve black clothes, pants, shirt, a mask, those shoes that had a diamond indicator on them. 
 
Because remember, at the scene, there was a shoe print in blood that had the Dickies -- I mean that had the diamond impact, like a van shoe. 
 
And they were also asking for knives and images and data of interest of planning. 
 
They didn't take any clothes. They didn't take shoes that had that diamond implant. So obviously there were things that they did not find there. 
 
And they didn't find the murder weapon. And, Erica, of course, they still don't know where that murder weapon may have been.
 
And he is innocent until proven guilty. He has a zealous chief public defender behind him now in Idaho. 
 
HILL: Jean Casarez, really important updates. I really appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
CASAREZ: Thank you. 
 
HILL: Well, they were hoping to catch some tuna but then 12-year-old Campbell Keenan caught something way bigger off the Florida coast. See that there in the water? That's a great white. Campbell's going to join us next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:51:56]
 
HILL: I mean, this is one heck of a fish tale. A 12-year-old boy out fishing with his mom in Florida, hoping to maybe catch some tuna, caught a whole lot more. 
 
Talk about a surprise this week. He reeled in -- watch this -- a great white shark!  It took about 45 minutes for Campbell Keenan to reel it in. 
 
Campbell and his mom, Colleen, are with us now. 
 
This is probably the last thing, Campbell, you are expecting. How are your arms feeling? 
 
CAMPBELL KEENAN, CAUGHT GREAT WHITE SHARK IN FLORIDA: They're hurting right now. Definitely, my forearms. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
HILL: When did you realize what was happening? 
 
CAMPBELL KEENAN: About 45 minutes in, we realized it was a shark. But right when it hit the rod, it just took off. 
 
HILL: Were you scared at all when you realized it was a shark? 
 
CAMPBELL KEENAN: I was definitely scared. I was wondering if I really wanted to fight a shark. 
 
HILL: You know what? I think that's a fair question to have running through your minds. 
 
Colleen, as you're watching this, you're thinking, this is great, he's catching something. Hold on, it's a shark. That must have been something. 
 
COLLEEN KEENAN, SON CAUGHT GREAT WHITE SHARK IN FLORIDA: Yes, well, right from the beginning, it was scary, because it was obviously something big, because it was pulling Campbell out of the seat. 
 
So Campbell was attached to the rod, but he wasn't attached to the seat. My friend, Katie, and I had to hold Campbell in to make sure he didn't fly out of the boat. 
 
But when we realized it was a shark, we were scared. 
 
HILL: Yes, a little scary.
 
And as I understand it, I mean, you're on this boat, like you're going out there, hoping to catch a little tuna. What did the boat captain say? Were they surprised at all that your son caught a great white shark? 
 
COLLEEN KEENAN: Yes, it was very chaotic. If you listen to the videos, the first mate was kind of beside himself. It was his first great white. I believe the captain Pauley had caught one before. 
 
So lots of yelling and chaos and making sure no one got hurt. 
 
HILL: Campbell, as it got closer, then the shark sort of swam away. When did it really hit you that you had caught a great white? 
 
CAMPBELL KEENAN: I mean, it really still hasn't. But when I got to see the belly of it, because it came up, and it was like in a catatonic state. 
 
It was on its belly -- on its back. And we saw the white part, and the captain is, like, that is a great white shark. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HILL: Do you think the shark was as surprised as you were, Campbell? 
 
CAMPBELL KEENAN: Probably. 
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
HILL: I think they gave each other a really good workout because she was pretty exhausted. 
 
HILL: I'm still trying to wrap my head around it after watching the video. It's just really incredible. 
 
What does this mean for your fishing career, Campbell? 
 <br>[13:55:02]
 
CAMPBELL KEENAN: It's definitely going to inspire me to do better, to get better at fishing and, like, try to catch as many fish as I can, as many big fish as I can. 
 
HILL: This is a pretty darn big fish. It will be tough to follow. 
 
Before I let you go, I'm just curious, have you ever seen the movie "Jaws," Campbell? 
 
CAMPBELL KEENAN: No. She won't let me. 
 
COLLEEN KEENAN: No.
 
HILL: Yes, you know what --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HILL: -- I think I'm with you, Colleen. 
 
Your mom is very smart. 
 
COLLEEN KEENAN: We do want to say the shark was safely released. That was fun to get to watch her swim away. 
 
And she was tagged and Campbell got to name her. 
 
HILL: Oh, so what's her name? 
 
CAMPBELL KEENAN: Jam-Jam. 
 
HILL: Jam-Jam.
 
We're going to have to end it there because --
 
CAMPBELL KEENAN: Yes.
 
HILL: -- we're out of time, But great to have you here. What a story you have. I know you've been getting calls from all over. 
 
Campbell, Colleen, thank you. 
 
Thanks to all of you for joining me today. I'm Erica Hill.
 
Stay tuned. Much more ahead with Alisyn Camerota and Victor Blackwell. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)