Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Zelenskyy Tries To Shore Up Support From U.S. Congress; Rupert Murdoch Stepping Down As Fox Chairman; India Suspends Visas For Canadian Citizens; Palestinian Authority President Addresses UNGA; Israel-Saudi Relations; India Suspends Visas For Canadian Nationals; Poland To Stop Providing Weapons To Ukraine; King Charles III Gives Historic Speech At French Senate. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired September 21, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
ISA SOARES, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT:  A very warm welcome to the show everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, a day of diplomacy. Volodymyr Zelenskyy 
 
 is trying to shore up U.S. support In the midst of a grueling counteroffensive. We are live in Washington and Ukraine. Life imitating 
 
 art. Rupert Murdoch announces he will step aside and hand off the family business to his son. Will this succession have a happy ending?   
 
And a very public ground. India calls Canada a safe haven for terrorists as accusations fly after the murder of a Sikh separatist. If we don't get the 
 
 aid, we will lose the war. That's what Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has reportedly told U.S. lawmakers today. The wartime leader is 
 
 in Washington, hoping to keep military aid flowing to fight Russia as some Republicans grow skeptical. 
 
House Speaker Kevin McCarthy avoided being seen publicly with Ukrainian leader, but post for photo during a close-door meeting. A short time ago, 
 
 President Zelenskyy took part in a wreath-laying ceremony, honoring 9/11 victims. And in the coming hour, we'll expect it -- we're expected to meet 
 
 with President Biden, of course, when that happens, we will bring it to you.   
 
Let's get the very latest from our Natasha Bertrand. So Natasha, really, an important meeting for President Zelenskyy, how much support though is there 
 
 from both sides of the political aisle to continue back in Ukraine with an election, of course, in the United States around the corner?  
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER:  Yes, Isa, well, look, I mean, among mainstream Republicans, there is still that support for 
 
 Ukraine, understanding of course, that Russia might not stop at Ukraine and might try to attack NATO if Ukraine does in fact lose. And that is 
 
 something that Republicans understand. 
 
Democrats of course, still stand very firmly with the Ukrainians. But among kind of the more fringe elements of the Republican Party, and of course, 
 
 Republicans that matter when it comes to getting necessary votes to continue funding Ukraine, there is a lot of skepticism. And they say that 
 
 they want to know more about the end goal here.   
 
They want to know what Ukraine's strategy actually is to win the war, and if they have a possibility of actually doing that, because otherwise, they 
 
 say this could just be a forever war that the U.S. will continue funding really with no end in sight. And so, the president here, he is going to be 
 
 walking a very fine line when he meets with President Zelenskyy, understanding that support among the broader American population, kind of 
 
 is on the side of those Republicans who are asking questions about why this war is worth funding and supporting.   
 
The president has, of course, reiterated multiple times that the U.S. stands with Ukraine and will continue to do so for as long as it takes. But 
 
 crucially, Ukraine is not going to be getting everything that it wants out of this visit. President Zelenskyy is not going to be getting at those 
 
 long-range missiles that he has been asking for, for months and months now.   
 
It remains to be seen, you know, whether the Ukraine supplemental funding that the White House has asked Congress for is going to go through, and of 
 
 course, that would really dictate how much the Pentagon is able to send Ukraine with regard to weapons and ammunition. And so, all of this is a 
 
 really -- it's a fraud moment for Zelenskyy. He comes here at a very different moment than when he came to Washington last year, when it was 
 
 much more unified and more united in terms of support for Ukraine.
 
This time around, it's much more tenuous, and you really can't -- by not take into consideration the fact that, of course, there is a big funding 
 
 and spending fight going on, on the Hill -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
BERTRAND:  Right now. And the big question for them is, we're looking to fund our government. Why should we also look to fund a war that we don't 
 
 see a way out of, essentially, Isa.  
 
SOARES:  Natasha, and very important context, then. Natasha Bertrand, thanks very much, Natasha. Well, back in Ukraine, Russia unleashed a 
 
 massive air attack overnight targeting energy facilities, several people were injured in the Ukrainian capital. The mayor says a nine-year-old girl 
 
 was one of them. Missiles also rained down on other cities.   
 
Officials say at least five people were killed in Kherson, in the southern part of the country. And right now, you're looking at the damage, that is 
 
 in Kharkiv. Ukraine's state energy provider says this was the first Russian attack on power facilities in six months as people, of course, get ready to 
 
 turn on the heat again. Our senior international correspondent Fred Pleitgen is in Zaporizhzhia for us this hour in Ukraine. 
 
And Fred, talk to us about this massive aerial attack on energy infrastructure first of all, because this comes as we head into Autumn and 
 
 Winter.  
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, we head into Autumn and Winter and Ukraine heads to what they call the heating 
 
 season here in this country, where the temperatures really do drop very quickly and considerably over a very short period of time. 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
And in many places, those central heating systems do then get turned on, and obviously, that also makes the country a lot more vulnerable. And of 
 
 course, one of the things that the Ukrainians are saying is they're looking back to last year and what happened there about a month earlier than it's 
 
 happening right now, which was in October when the Russians started what was essentially a massive aerial campaign that went on for several months 
 
 against a lot of these energy infrastructure sites, obviously or seemingly trying to submit the Ukrainians by making them freeze.     
 
Now, the Ukrainians fear that something like that could be happening once again as used to point out. They say that in the past six months, they have 
 
 not seen an attack on the scale. The Ukrainians say that the Russians used ballistic missiles but also a lot of cruise missiles as well. 
 
They say that in some cases, there were strategic bombers that were lost -- that were launched in the west of Russia, ten of those strategic bombers 
 
 launching 43 cruise missiles at sites in Ukraine, most of those sites that were hit were in the west and the central part of the country. There was 
 
 one really tragic case in Cherkasy where a hotel was hit, a lot of people were injured there. 
 
But then first and foremost, it was that energy infrastructure that was hit, there were power outages in a lot of places, and in a lot of those 
 
 places, the Ukrainians are saying that the power is not yet fully restored. So, therefore, these attacks, obviously something that they are a big deal 
 
 here in Ukraine. And I think it was also telling, Isa, as the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is in the United States right now, that one 
 
 of the first things that he did early this morning is he went on Twitter and said that the Russians had launched this large attack. 
 
And one of the things that he is calling for in the United States is for more of those modern air defense systems. Obviously, the Ukrainians are 
 
 saying, for them, the Patriot systems are extremely important. They've managed to shoot down hypersonic missiles with those. But also those 
 
 massive systems that come from the U.S.
 
So, it's certainly one of the big things that the Ukrainians are asking for aside from all those other weapons that they want as well. Right now, air 
 
 defense certainly top of the list. The other thing that happened today as well, though, is that the Ukrainians, Isa, also appear to be fighting back, 
 
 they say that they conducted a large-scale attack on targets in occupied Crimea, including a Russian military airfield.
 
The Russians so far haven't really commented on that, but the Ukrainians certainly say they are fighting back. They do believe that their 
 
 counteroffensive is moving forward, where at the same time, those airstrikes are massive concern for the Ukrainians, Isa.   
 
SOARES:  Fred Pleitgen for us this evening in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, thanks very much, Fred. Joining us now is the former Ukrainian Defense Minister 
 
 and current adviser to the government of Ukraine Andriy Zagorodnyuk, a well-known face here on the show. Andriy, great to have you on the show. 
 
 Let me ask you first about this fallout, I think it's fair to say that we can call it that, between Poland and Ukraine. 
 
Two loyal allies. We know it started because of the grain, but it seems to have escalated. What is your view of where we are now in this relationship?  
 
ANDRIY ZAGORODNYUK, UKRAINIAN POLITICIAN:  My view is that we're a couple of days into the situation, and I am sure it will go away. I know a lot of 
 
 Polish analysts, military, and there is a massive strategic understanding why Poland and Ukraine must be best friends particularly in this situation. 
 
Poland and Ukraine in a long history of us being neighbors. You know,  we had like ups and downs. And every time when we had downs, Russia used it. 
 
 Every single time since medieval times -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
ZAGORODNYUK:  So we will remember that. It's not like, you know, it's not like we don't know about that. So I am 100 percent certain that politicians 
 
 and whoever is making decisions in both countries will make sure that, that never escalates further and we will remain allies. Because it's -- Poland 
 
 is helping Ukraine, we're extremely appreciated, but it's not because -- it's not just because of the compassion to the neighbor.
 
It's also because of the strategic reasons, and Polish people know about that, but particularly, Polish -- like military leaders and strategic 
 
 leaders, they will understand that. So I'm sure it will go away.  
 
SOARES:  I mean, I think you were hinting there, the fact that there is a general election coming in Poland about a month or so. So this -- 
 
ZAGORODNYUK:  Right -- 
 
SOARES:  Plays into the politics, that's what you're referring to here?  
 
ZAGORODNYUK:  I think -- I think, yes, and I think that we will understand that sometimes politicians say different things during the elections. But 
 
 I'm absolutely certain that the overall strategic cooperation between countries will not go away. But also, that they will tone down that -- 
 
 whatever is -- whatever is currently is -- I mean, is more like agitated them. I'm sure that they will be toned down due -- again to the more 
 
 important reasons.  
 
SOARES:  Let's talk about the grain because Slovakia unlike Hungary and Poland, they lifted grain restrictions and established what I believe 
 
 they're calling a grain trade system with Ukraine. Do you know if Ukraine is speaking with Poland about this -- creating the same system here, 
 
 Andrew?  
 
ZAGORODNYUK:  OK, so I'm specialized more in the military matters, but from what I know is that, yes, there's been discussions about how to get out of 
 
 this situation. And again, I'm sure that they will find some reason. So there are specialists talking to the -- from Poland in Ukraine and trade 
 
 and war and so on. 
 <br>[14:10:00]
 
So there's some discussions right now about that.  
 
SOARES:  Well, you know, we heard President Zelenskyy speaking at the U.N. General Assembly. I want to play a little -- a little clip. Have a listen 
 
 to this.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT, UKRAINE:  Some of our friends in Europe play our solidarity in political theater, making thriller from the dream. 
 
 They may seem to play their own role, but in fact, they are helping set the stage to a Moscow actor. 
 
Second, weaponization of energy. Many times the world has witnessed Russia using energy as a weapon. Kremlin weaponized oil and gas to weaken the 
 
 leaders of other countries when they came to the Red Square.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  So, it's the first part really what we heard from him. And then we heard President Duda comparing Ukraine to a desperate drowning person. I 
 
 mean, I know you're framing this within the political aspect of all of this, but this is now become -- gone beyond the grain dispute. Does this 
 
 tit-for-tat, this language that we've been seeing here, doesn't it play into Putin's hand?  
 
ZAGORODNYUK:  Any complications between neighbors, any complications between allies is playing into Putin's hands. And we -- I mean, Ukraine and 
 
 Poland, they know about that. So, I'm -- and that's why I'm saying that I'm not certainly certain that this agitation will not develop further, should 
 
 not develop further, and I don't think it will develop further. 
 
Of course, Putin will be trying to kind of develop any disagreements between allies, whatever. Is it Poland and Ukraine or whoever else in 
 
 Ukraine or whoever else between themselves. They divide and conquer. That's been their strategy for years, decades and even more.  
 
SOARES:  So, the decision to no longer arm Ukraine, you're saying that's not going to have an impact on Ukraine?  
 
ZAGORODNYUK:  No, well, I mean, whatever is happening in this region, of course, will have impact o Ukraine. What I'm saying is that the allies, 
 
 they will eventually reach understanding that -- 
 
SOARES:  Right -- 
 
ZAGORODNYUK:  There are like longer reasons -- a longer priorities, there are like more strategic priorities. And I'm sure that as before, we have 
 
 discussions with our neighbors on different things before, so it's not like the first time there's been some disagreements and so on. And this -- by 
 
 the way happens with many other countries particularly in Europe, so -- and in other parts of the world. So, I'm sure that -- I'm sure that Poland and 
 
 Ukraine will find a common language.  
 
SOARES:  It seems, Andriy, from what you're saying you're not too worried about the tit-for-tat framing within the political news that we have out of 
 
 Poland, there's an election playing of course, perhaps to pandering to the role of vote in Poland. But let's focus what we've seen in Washington where 
 
 we've seen President Zelenskyy meeting with lawmakers, trying -- I don't know if you heard at the beginning of our show, trying to convince both 
 
 sides stand by Ukraine. 
 
The fear is that support may be waning from the right side of the political aisle in United States. How much do you think that worries Kyiv?  
 
ZAGORODNYUK:  It worries Kyiv for sure. And what worries is that, again, we have a massive support from Republican Party members. I mean, we know -- we 
 
 know loads of them who are extremely supportive to Ukraine. But at the same time, the Republican Party has different people with different positions. 
 
 And there are some more like, you know -- more like right-wing sort of positions are quite -- even not against Ukraine, but more against the 
 
 strategic -- like strategic assistance to Ukraine and the help to Ukraine. 
 
And that all -- you know, they're using the arguments which are not actually practical in terms of like real outcomes of the war. But at the 
 
 same time, they work for those people who are not certain yet what's going on. And for example, they're saying, oh, we need to find some common 
 
 language with Putin or we need to find some compromise or we need to find something else.
 
And these things very often, they are like just sad because they are not based on any kind of real opportunities of us like reaching the end of this 
 
 war, that simple. But yes, they damage the -- they potentially may damage the progression of the resistance, and of course, that worries us. That 
 
 said, we know a lot of -- and a core of a political of the Republican Party, which is actually supportive to Ukraine.
 
So, very much hope as an independent analyst that this part will actually prevail and the common sense will prevail.  
 
SOARES:  Andriy, really appreciate it, and thank you for putting your political hat on, on top of everything else you have to cover. Thank you 
 
 very much, great to see you. 
 
ZAGORODNYUK:  Sure, thank you.
 
SOARES:  Well, as we mentioned, as we were discussing the rift between allies, Poland and Ukraine may be felt on the battlefield. The Polish Prime 
 
 Minister says will also stop transferring weapons to Ukraine and will instead focus on its own defense needs.
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
Poland though will deliver previously agreed all military supplies. The spat comes as Poland, one of Ukraine's staunchest backers in the war 
 
 against Russia fights Kyiv over grain imports. For more on the fallout, I want to bring in "TVN24" senior anchor Michal Sznajder who is live from the 
 
 Polish capital, Warsaw.
 
So, Michal, I'm not sure if you heard my conversation there with the Zelenskyy adviser on the spat. He pretty much framed it -- saw it in many 
 
 ways as a political decision, internal political matter. And he believed from what -- when I heard that this would go away, that the relationship 
 
 would be steadfast. Explain what is happening here.  
 
MICHAL SZNAJDER, SENIOR ANCHOR, TVN24:  Good evening, Isa, thank you very much here for the opportunity to speak with you. Well, anything that is 
 
 politically taking place in Poland right now is connected to the election or at least is being analyzed in that context. Now, in terms of the 
 
 rationale behind these actions, it depends, well, who you ask. 
 
The government claims that when it comes to the matter of grains, that this is simply a question of protecting the livelihood of Polish farmers and the 
 
 stability of the Polish agriculture market. And there is -- well, that is true to a point, that a drastic influx of Ukraine grain which did take 
 
 place last year and in the beginning of this year was detrimental to Polish farmers and would be in the future if continued. 
 
Now, on the other hand, a majority of farmers vote for law and justice. Yet, in the past few years, there has been some friction, there has been 
 
 some dissatisfaction from the farmers. So Law and Justice simply needs to retain those votes and show that community we are fighting for you. We are 
 
 protecting you. 
 
Another aspect that the government is trying to -- the government is being accused of trying to gain votes from those who don't support Ukraine. Who 
 
 don't want to get involved financially. In fact, during the recent TV interview, the Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was asked, is Law 
 
 and Justice trying to steal, if you will, voters from the far-right Konfederacja Party? 
 
He claims, this is not the case. He said this is not the way we look at these things, but the leader of the civic coalition, which is the biggest 
 
 opposition entity openly accuses the Law and Justice government of weakening Ukraine for its own political gain. Here's Donald Tusk.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
DONALD TUSK, FORMER POLISH PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  I am not talking about the moral and geopolitical scandal that it is. Just because 
 
 it is to be profitable for them in the campaign, to stab Ukraine in the back politically while fighting on the Ukrainian front is being resolved. 
 
 They cannot organize aid for Ukraine without harming Poles.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SZNAJDER:  And there you saw it, accusing the government of not preparing the proper solution, which would make it possible to avoid this spat. Also, 
 
 there is concern that any friction between Poland and Ukraine is exactly what Russia wants.  
 
SOARES:  Michael, appreciate it. Thank you very much. And still to come tonight, a media titan is stepping down after building an empire. The 
 
 latest from Rupert Murdoch's decision and what happens next. Plus, screenwriters and Hollywood studios are in talks to try and end the 
 
 historic strike that has frozen the industry. We'll look ahead to Los Angeles, next.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
SOARES:  The right-wing media boss behind "Fox News" is stepping down. Rupert Murdoch says he is leaving his post as the chair of "Fox 
 
 Corporation" and "News Corp". Murdoch's son Lachlan is taking over, but the elder Murdoch is sticking around. The 92-year-old says he is transitioning 
 
 to the role of chairman emeritus. In addition to "Fox News", the Murdochs oversee a host of newspapers, they include "The Wall Street Journal", "The 
 
 Sun" and "The Times" in the U.K. as well as Australia's "Daily Telegraph" and "The Australian". 
 
Murdoch outlets Field(ph) Force's claims about a stolen U.S. election, if you remember back in 2020, and their coverage of the climate crisis, at 
 
 times climate change denial is hugely influential. CNN's Anna Stewart is tracking these developments, joins me now. So, Anna, just let's start with 
 
 the statement. First of all, the timing of this and the statement, because I wasn't sure -- is it retirement? Is it semi-retirement. I mean, how 
 
 should we interpret this?  
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER:  Is he stepping down? Is he stepping back because like, a little shuffle to the side. I mean, the statement says a 
 
 lot in the first sentence. It says, I have decided to transition to the role of chairman emeritus, which is normally a term reserved for university 
 
 professors -- 
 
SOARES:  Universities, right -- 
 
STEWART:  Retire and come back for election. And I think he will be coming back for almost daily lectures, because at the end of the statement, it 
 
 says you can't expect to see him in the office late on a Friday afternoon. 
 
SOARES:  But there's one thing seeing him in the office and saying hi, how are you, and quite another, to be dictating policy in terms of, you know, 
 
 what you want from the company, how much will he still be making decisions by him it seems. 
 
STEWART:  That, we do not know, and I suspect maybe we'll never know, because you never really know how involved in day-to-day operations and 
 
 editorial Rupert Murdoch has ever been. But certainly, it will be interesting seeing his son take the full lead. And the question is, how 
 
 much will change? 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  Of the children who were in line for succession over many years, at one stage, it was Elisabeth Murdoch, for a while, there was a moment 
 
 where we thought it might be James Murdoch, now it's the eldest son, Lachlan. His politics very much align with his father's, he's on the right. 
 
 However, we do know from CNN sources that he is not a big fan of President Trump, former President Trump. So we wonder now, will that change how they 
 
 gear up for next U.S. election, probably not.  
 
SOARES:  Does it speak to the timing of this decision? Why now? Is it because of the U.S. election? How do you see this?  
 
STEWART:  In terms of the timing, he is 92 years old. It's not a bad age to try and take a step back -- 
 
SOARES:  And be emeritus -- 
 
STEWART:  And let the next generation lead the way, but honestly, I don't really know. Because I was trying to work out what the difference would be, 
 
 possibly some editorial changes at "Fox" possibly. I think it's actually unlikely given Lachlan being -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes -- 
 
STEWART:  The CEO for some time, and we haven't really seen any changes on air. What about the controlling stake of "Fox", of "News Corp"?  
 
SOARES:  Yes, that will be interesting because it almost seems if any of you actually watch succession, everyone is like, what's going to happen 
 
 next?  
 
STEWART:  What happens next?	
 
SOARES:  With all the siblings. 
 
STEWART:  So I don't think we are seeing season five of succession right now. What will happen when Rupert Murdoch dies, that will be very 
 
 interesting because the family trust is controlled -- 
 
SOARES:  Yes --   
 
STEWART:  By Rupert Murdoch. That does not change. Four of his six children, they all have stakes, but four have voting stakes in that family 
 
 trust. And this controls around 40 percent of the voting shares -- 
 
SOARES:  Well, OK -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
STEWART:  Of the media empire. If Rupert Murdoch were to die, then you have to question, do all the four siblings that have voting shares have equal 
 
 shares? Because if they do, Lachlan will need the support of his siblings - -   
 
SOARES:  Very quickly, does he have the support of his siblings? Have any of them commented on this move as he's transitioning?  
 
STEWART:  I mean, it is not -- rumors and speculation as you get in succession -- no, not always the easiest relationship from what I have 
 
 heard.  
 
SOARES:  Anna, thank you very much. Well, screenwriters and the heads of four major studios are meeting for a second consecutive day as they try to 
 
 hammer out a deal that puts an end to the historic strike that has frozen Hollywood. 
 
The current standoff has now strike for more than 140 days. American actors joined the strike in July as well. 
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
Our Natasha Chen is following the story for us from Los Angeles. So, Natasha, a second straight day of talks. That must be a good sign, surely.  
 
NATASHA CHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It is a good sign that they are back at the table -- and sorry about the noise there, asking for people to honk as 
 
 they go by the picket line here. But there was a disappointing meeting last month. So the fact that they're back at the table is a good thing, and 
 
 people familiar with the negotiations tell CNN's Oliver Darcy that yesterday they left feeling encouraged and that they are still meeting 
 
 today. 
 
The people in the room include the CEOs, the heads of the studios including the head of Netflix that we're standing in front of, the head of Disney, 
 
 the head of Warner Brothers Discovery, NBC Universal as well as representatives from WGA. And keep in mind, these writers have been on 
 
 strike for more than four and a half months with the actors joining them about two months into that. 
 
And so, there has been a very large economic impact thus far across the United States. We are seeing financial damage of more than $5 billion, now 
 
 pushing $6 billion. And that's not just the writers and actors out of work, it's all of the small businesses that support these productions. The people 
 
 who clean the offices, the people who make the food to cater lunch to them. 
 
The people who run prop houses. In fact, we spoke to one prop house owner this week who had to lay off half her staff, and she's worried about what 
 
 the industry looks like when they return.  
 
SOARES:  Yes, and it's not just -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
PAM ELYEA, VICE PRESIDENT, HISTORY FOR HIRE:  I'm the one who, you know, worries at night about what's going to happen because, you know, you don't 
 
 lay somebody off without thinking. I'm not just taking the job, they're going to lose their home, they're going to lose their apartment, because 
 
 nobody makes enough to live in Los Angeles. This is an extremely expensive city to live in. So, you're really impacting someone's life.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHEN:  And again, there is hope with this very crucial window of opportunity here with the two sides still meeting today. But in speaking to 
 
 the rank-and-file WGA members, there is some skepticism about just how much progress is being made. So we'll watch for developments on that, Isa.   
 
SOARES:  Yes, it's a strike that is being felt also here in the U.K., of course, people who work for all those big companies unable also to work. 
 
 I'll be speaking to a set designer on the show tomorrow just about this. Thank you very much, Natasha, appreciate it. And still to come tonight, 
 
 pressing the world to do more to help Palestinians. Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas just took the podium at the United Nations. An 
 
 update on his speech. That's just ahead. 
 
Plus, the latest measures Canada and India are taking as diplomatic spat intensifies. Those stories after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
SOARES:  With the peace process nonexistent Israeli settlement building expanding and daily life a struggle, the future may be bleak for the 
 
 Palestinian people. But Mahmoud Abbas is not giving up on his dream of a Palestinian state. 
 
The Palestinian Authority president is addressing the U.N. General Assembly right now. He is urging the world to step in and help protect the lives of 
 
 Palestinians. Hadas Gold joins me now.
 
He just started speaking. But give us a sense of what you have heard thus far. 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  I think the most interesting thing we have heard so far, he has made many types of these speeches 
 
 before. We have heard many of these lines before. 
 
I think for me what stood out was the very first line. He said those that think peace can prevail in the Middle East without Palestinians enjoying 
 
 their full, legitimate national rights would be mistaken.
 
I see that is a very clear message to what we have been talking about for the last day or so, which is about this Saudi-Israel normalization. So much 
 
 of that has been, what about the Palestinians?
 
What would the Palestinians potentially get out of a deal like this?
 
Saudi Arabia has said the Palestinians have to be a part of this equation. But it was interesting to hear from crown prince Mohammed bin Salman that 
 
 he was to ease the life of the Palestinians but he did not mention an independent Palestinian state. 
 
So where do the Palestinians play into this?
 
That why you are hearing Mahmoud Abbas addressing this. He talked about things he has talked about so many times before, demanding an end to the 
 
 occupation, recognizing the independence of the state of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital,  resolving the issue of Palestinians 
 
 refugee. 
 
He was also calling for Israel to be held responsible for their actions the same way that other countries are being held responsible for their actions. 
 
 This is something we've  heard from a lot of Palestinians, especially since the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 
 
They'll say Russia is being held to a different standard than Israel is being held to. We haven't heard the end of Mahmoud Abbas' speech. But I 
 
 want to hear how he addresses the issue of the Saudi Arabia normalization. 
 
We know that they have made several sorts of demands or what they would expect from all this. 
 
But the big question is that, could any of that actually happen in reality?
 
And what will happen to the Palestinians in the event of a possible normalization deal?
 
SOARES:  We will let you listen to the rest of Mr. Abbas' speech. Hadas, thank you.
 
Israel says normalization is a priority. Prime Minister Netanyahu told CNN he doesn't want to get hung up on the Palestinian issues, suggesting he 
 
 will circle back to it later. The one key state Israel is courting, as Abbas was saying, is Saudi Arabia, saying Palestinian concerns must be 
 
 addressed. 
 
The crown prince says his country and Israel are getting closer. Let's have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MOHAMMED BIN SALMAN, SAUDI CROWN PRINCE:  We have good negotiations to continue until now. 
 <br>[14:35:00]
 
BIN SALMAN:  We got to see what we do. We hope that it will be to a place that will ease the life of the Palestinians and get Israel as a player 
 
 Middle East. 
 
BRET BAIER, FOX NEWS HOST:  So you think, if you were to characterize it, are you close?
 
BIN SALMAN:  Every day we get closer. It seems it's for the first time really one (ph)  serious. We will see how it goes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  The crown prince went on to say that if Iran gets nuclear weapons, Saudi Arabia would have to get them, too. 
 
The diplomatic dispute between India and Canada is deepening. Canada set it's temporarily adjusting its diplomatic staff in India. This comes days 
 
 after the Canadian prime minister accused the Indian government of possibly playing a role in the assassination of a Sikh leader in Canada. 
 
The Indian government denies the accusation, citing a lack of proof. India's foreign ministry spokesperson said Canada should be concerned about 
 
 its reputation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ARINDAM BAGCHI, INDIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON:  The issue that the politician damages one any country that needs to look at this I think is 
 
 Canada and its growing reputation as a place, as a safe haven for terrorists, for extremists and for organized crime. 
 
And I think that's what Canada needs to worry about, its international reputation. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOARES:  Paula Newton joins us now.
 
This is quite the escalation. Give us a sense of what we have heard from Mr. Trudeau. I saw him speaking earlier today. 
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT:  He did actually just a few hours ago. It was in direct response what happened in India a few hours 
 
 before that. I have to tell you the prime minister was quite deliberative, he was quite measured. 
 
But again repeated the accusations to say that the government in India is linked to this murder. Having said that, Mr. Trudeau has been saying for a 
 
 couple of days that he is not looking to provoke India. He's not looking to escalate the situation. Right now, though, the evidence points to, as you 
 
 say, the turmoil here deepening. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON (voice-over):  It was Father's Day this past June, when Hardeep Singh Nijjar left the temple he led, got into his truck and called home to 
 
 say that he would be there soon for a family dinner. 
 
But within minutes Canadian police say Singh Nijjar was shot several times and lay bleeding in his driver's seat. By any measure a, gruesome killing 
 
 carried out on the streets of Surrey, British Columbia, in the heart of the Sikh community.
 
Police say that at least two masked men, describe as heavier set fled on foot and then into a silver Toyota. They were last spotted blocks away from 
 
 the temple. And there hasn't been a trace of them since.
 
Canada has now implicated India in this killing. And that has led to more fear in this community. More questions about police protection here given 
 
 authorities warned Nijjar his life was threatened.
 
His son says the community has a message for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
 
BAIRAJ NIJJAR, HARDEEP SINGH NIJJAR'S SON:  Sikhs around the world believe this is not the end. We expect more.
 
NEWTON:  Many are asking why the crime has yet to be solved. And want more evidence to be made public. Jagmeet Singh is the leader of the new 
 
 democratic opposition party and a member of the Sikh community. He has received an intelligence briefing on the evidence.
 
JAGMEET SINGH, CANADIAN OPPOSITION LEADER:  I received a briefing that outlined some of the information we have. And I trust the work of our 
 
 security forces. These are very, very serious intelligence reports that have come forward. And now requires a serious response.
 
NEWTON:  Despite Canada's allegations it has had little influence on the Indian government. Both countries have traded travel advisories, diplomatic 
 
 expulsions but neither the murder case nor this political issue is any closer to being resolved.
 
UJJAL DOSANJH, FORMER PREMIER, BRITISH COLUMBIA:  My question is this. If you know -- if you know him, he had made it happen, then you must know who 
 
 pulled the trigger. 
 
If you know who pulled the trigger, who are they?
 
Why are they not arrested?
 
NEWTON:  Ujjal Dosanjh is the former premier of British Columbia and former federal cabinet minister. He says Canada needs to disclose more evidence 
 
 because, without it, he says, this incident could set relations back decades.
 
DOSANJH:  The government of India rightly distrusts Mr. Trudeau. And Mr. Trudeau, obviously, you know, talks about freedom of expression. But I 
 
 think that separatists in this country have gone beyond exercising the freedom of expression.
 
NEWTON:  Canada's allies seem to be sticking firmly on the sidelines of this conflict. The Biden administration says that India should fully 
 
 cooperate with the investigation but adds India is a vitally important ally.
 <br>[14:40:00]
 
NEWTON (voice-over):  To that end, India and the United States are sponsoring a military conference in India next week. And an Indian military 
 
 commander says Canada is set to be there, too. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON:  I will tell you, we are still waiting for confirmation from Canada that that military officer will be there or that entire delegation. I have 
 
 to tell you, the fact that there has been a suspension of visas for all Canadian nationals by India has really sent chills through this business 
 
 community. 
 
There is a lot to be learned in this incident still. Many Canadians as well as the Indian government are asking prime minister Trudeau to show more 
 
 evidence but he has declined to do so. 
 
SOARES:  Thanks very much, Paula. 
 
Still to come tonight, we return to the growing rift between Poland and Ukraine. Where Warsaw stands and what can be done to break the impasse.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
SOARES:  Welcome back, everyone. 
 
The decision by Poland to stop sending weapons to Ukraine could impact its counteroffensive against Russia. 
 
The Polish prime minister says the reason is, "We are now arming Poland." 
 
It comes amidst a standoff over grain imports between the two allies. Poland has been one of Ukraine's closest and most vocal allies. It was the 
 
 first NATO country to send fighter jets to Ukraine. 
 
Now I'm going to give you the Polish side. Radek Sikorski is a member of the European Parliament, a former Polish defense minister and former 
 
 marshal of Poland's parliament. 
 
Thank you very much for taking the time to speak with us. I want you to get your assessment, your analysis of how you see the for tit-for-tat here. 
 
Was this the right decision?
 
RADEK SIKORSKI, MEMBER, EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT:  I'm not even sure it is a decision. The government spokesperson has said existing contracts are being 
 
 honored and, of course, Poland will not shut down the American lift for Ukraine. 
 
But everyone is short on stocks in Western Europe and in the United States because we haven't ramped up production. But those words were still 
 
 unhelpful. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SOARES:  So why not say it?
 
So why not say that?
 
SIKORSKI:  Because that may give Putin the impression that the West is about to crack and that, if he persists, he could win. 
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
SOARES:  But the other aspect, which I'm sure you will tell me is that politics, it's clearly at play here. Perhaps a suggestion to Polish 
 
 farmers. But I was under the impression that there was a consensus in Poland over Ukraine and to stay with Ukraine and see it through. 
 
SIKORSKI:  Absolutely. I am the spokesman for foreign affairs of the main opposition party and we support the government in its policy of helping 
 
 Ukraine. 
 
But the government failed in organizing transit corridors for Ukrainian grain to Africa and China. Farmers are angry. And it is putting the blame 
 
 on the European Union and Ukraine when it's -- incompetence is to blame. And it is also vying for votes in our nasty election campaign against the 
 
 right wing fringe, anti-Ukrainian party. 
 
SOARES:  So political tactics is what you are saying here. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SOARES:  -- is the grain, the fact that Ukrainian grain flooded the Polish market. 
 
Explain what that has done to Polish grain, the price of grain, and to the farmers try to sell it?
 
SIKORSKI:  The average landholder in Poland is 10 hectares whereas Ukraine has these Texas-sized farms and some of the best soil in Europe. It's why 
 
 the European Union has had restrictions on the import of Ukrainian grain. 
 
Obviously we want to help Ukraine earn the money to continue to resist. But Ukrainian grain previously was sold in Africa and China. So when Putin put 
 
 the blockade in the Black Sea, the idea was to have these solidarity corridors across Poland and across the European Union. 
 
But unfortunately, the current Polish government failed to organize them. 
 
SOARES:  And we have seen Slovakia. They have lifted its grain restrictions and establish what they are calling a grain trade system with Ukraine. 
 
My other question is, where is the E.U.?
 
Can they help out?
 
SIKORSKI:  You can help upgrade a port and railroad facilities. And Poland should have asked the E.U. for help with that and also with the cost of 
 
 transporting grain over land, which is higher than across the sea. 
 
Here, if Poland had a better relationship with Brussels, it could've all been done a year ago. But the current government has a sort of Cold War 
 
 with the European Union. They failed to do it and now they are blaming Ukraine, which is innocent in this. 
 
SOARES:  So the language from both sides has been quite colorful. But if the prime minister's decision holds past the elections, obviously when it 
 
 comes to arms, do you think that will impact the war in Ukraine and the unity with its allies?
 
SIKORSKI:  I hope we, the opposition, will win the general election. We will have a more competent government and we will resume our close alliance 
 
 with -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SOARES:  And if -- and if you win, what is the solution to this grain dilemma?
 
What do you --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SIKORSKI:  -- Poland's cold war with the European Union and find a good European solution so that Ukraine can send its grain but Polish farmers 
 
 don't bear the brunt of solidarity for all of Europe. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SOARES:  But my question is, what is that solution?
 
Would it --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SIKORSKI:  -- Polish railway and port facilities ad to help with the cost of the transit. 
 
SOARES:  Radek Sikorski, I appreciate you taking the time to speak with us. Thank you very much, sir. 
 
SIKORSKI:  My pleasure.
 
SOARES:  And still to come, Britain's King Charles is in the middle of a state visit to France. Why his visit is being so well-received. That is 
 
 next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
SOARES:  A historic day in France for King Charles III. He became the first British monarch to give a speech from the country's senate chamber. During 
 
 his speech, he praised the indispensable relationship between France and the U.K. Max Foster has more on his visit. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT:  The royal couple heading to Bordeaux after what diplomats have said has been a very successful first leg of this 
 
 state visit. Certainly the French rolled out the red carpet for King Charles. The big highlight was the speech in the Senate, the first time a 
 
 British king or queen has ever spoken from the senate floor.
 
And it ended with a 1.5 minute sending ovation from politicians. Charles, at one point, didn't really know what to do. It went down farther than even 
 
 he expected. He couldn't sit down until the ovation was over.
 
And that is really what both governments wanted to see, a successful speech which really spoke of historical ties between the two nations, which go 
 
 back centuries, very close allies traditionally. 
 
He has reimagined that in a way and tried to reinvigorate that relationship away from all the recent politics which is divided by the two countries. He 
 
 spoke both languages; I'm told by French colleagues, his French was very good. 
 
He did tiptoe into some controversial waters, talking about climate change at a time when the British government is under pressure for the way it is 
 
 pulling back from some of his climate policies but also delving deep into Ukraine war as well. 
 
Charles saying this is a war that Ukraine must win to protect the freedoms that we fought for in the West and in Europe over the centuries. These are 
 
 topics that the queen, his mother, would not have gotten into. She was a much more independent and impartial figure. 
 
But this is the way Charles is slightly changing his monarchy and giving a bit of edge to the soft power that the British government -- the British 
 
 monarchy are famous for. So I think they're quite pleased with the way Charles has picked up the 
 
 crown and used is in a slightly different way from his mother. 
 
There was time for some fun as well. They went to meet some young children who were involved in sports. We saw the queen and first lady trying their 
 
 best to play table tennis. But as you can see, it's not their forte. But it shows that the family can have fun as well. 
 
They had a moment also to see Notre Dame, the cathedral that burned down, to see painstaking work being done to rebuild that. They are now off to 
 
 Bordeaux, where they are going to get to know a bit more about that region. Many Brits live there. Then they're back to the U.K. after this three-day 
 
 visit. 
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
FOSTER:  I think we are getting a sense of how Charles is handling himself right now. The governments on both sides are pretty happy with that, I 
 
 think. 
 
SOARES:  Max, thank you very much. 
 
Several works of art stolen by the Nazis during World War II have been returned to the family of their former owner. The drawings by Egon Schiele 
 
 were looted by a former cabaret owner who died in the Holocaust. Authorities said they were worth more than $9 million. They were 
 
 voluntarily surrendered by museums and collectors.
 
I want to show you some live pictures coming to us from the White House. You are seeing there, the red carpets being rolled out. The president and 
 
 the first lady of Ukraine are due to meet President Biden and Dr. Jill Biden. 
 
The two presidents are expected to hold bilateral talks for the next two hours. Earlier today Zelenskyy had individual meetings, trying critically 
 
 to win over a growing number of skeptical Republicans to keep funding and supporting Ukraine. 
 
Richard Quest is up next. I'm sure he will bring you all of the events -- next. 
 
END