Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Renewable Energy Drives Conversation At IRENA Climate Meeting; German Defense Minister Quits Amid Criticism Over War Response; Kremlin: UK Tanks In Ukraine "Will Burn Like The Rest"; Israel's Anti-Government Protest Movement Gains Momentum; Social Media Video Shows Plane Tilt On Approach To Airport; Saudi Hotels Now Required To Acquire Art From Local Artists. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired January 16, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST: I'm Becky Anderson. Hello and welcome back. This is the second hour of CONNECT THE WORLD. Coming up, we're going to get you 
 
 the very latest on the war in Ukraine and that deadly strike on the Dnipro. I'm going to speak to the Lithuanian Foreign Minister, who is calling on 
 
 the world to supply Ukraine with more military hardware more on that in a moment.
 
First though, I'm going to begin this hour, with a focus on the climate crisis and global efforts this year to tackle it. The top line is simple 
 
 more needs to be done urgently if we as a world community want to get a tangible result. And that is, of course, protecting the planet.
 
Well, that will be the message that business and political leaders will hear this week as they gather at the World Economic Forum in Davos. They 
 
 will actually come face to face with the results of climate crisis as the Swiss resort boasts notably less snow compared to previous years.
 
And that call for immediate action was also loud and clear this weekend here in Abu Dhabi, where the global climate conversation really got 
 
 underway at the annual meeting of the International Renewable Energy Agency.
 
A stark warning from UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres opening the meeting he said we should be investing $4 trillion a year into renewables 
 
 to prevent catastrophic climate change. Well, I was there to see his address and partake in the high level discussions being held, have a 
 
 listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON (on camera): We're here at IRENA's General Assembly surrounded by some of the biggest players in the global energy transition. Now this is 
 
 setting the scene for the United Arab Emirates hosting COP28, which will provide a critical status update on our battle to fight climate change.
 
SULTAN AL JABER, COP28 PRESIDENT: COP28 will be a milestone moment, as the world conducts the first global stock take to assess progress against the 
 
 goals of the Paris Agreement. We don't need to wait until the global stock take to know just how much work there is ahead of us.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): These leaders say they are working towards the same goal, limiting the Earth's warming to 1.5 degrees. But despite some 
 
 progress at last year's COP27 in Egypt, the world is still not on track to meet those goals.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): John Kerry, let me bring you in at this point, you know, collectively, the - is not on track to hold temperature rise at 1.5. 
 
 And have we moved past that target at this point? And what policies and measures is U.S. putting in place to increase your own ambition?
 
JOHN KERRY, U.S. SPECIAL PRESIDENTIAL ENVOY FOR CLIMATE: Well, thank you, Becky. Theoretically, yes, we can. But there's nothing in the current 
 
 activities of countries all around the world, mine included, that indicates that we are prepared to do what we need to do in order to meet the 1.5 even 
 
 if we went to zero, even if China went to zero we don't solve the problem. Every country has to step up and that's the virtue of the stock take.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): the United Nations Chief Antonio Guterres addressed the assembly, emphatically outlining his solution, renewables, which he 
 
 says are the only safeguard to our future, and can ensure energy security.
 
Today he says renewables accounted for about 30 percent of global electricity. Guterres says this was doubled to over 60 percent by 2030 and 
 
 90 percent by 2050. To make a renewable future, a reality, its critical developing nations have the resources and tools to transition. But where 
 
 will the required investment come from?
 
KIRBY: No government in the world has enough money to do what we need to do. We're talking about trillions, who has the trillions? The private 
 
 sector has the trillions.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): The message from this meeting, then renewables where the wind, solar or hydro are key to saving the planet. But unless private 
 
 investment is ramped up, and is universally accessible, it is the most vulnerable nations who will continue to suffer the most, no matter their 
 
 own climate policies.
 
SIAOSI SOVALENI, TONGAN PRIME MINISTER: We are very small economies. But we are trying to do what we can to actually help trying to fight climate 
 
 change. And rightly so I mean, for the Pacific climate change is an existential threat to us, and we will do whatever we can to actually give 
 
 it 1.5 degree Celsius.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
ANDERSON (on camera): We know that we are not on track to meet the goals set out in the Paris Agreement. Frankly, in many instances, we are 
 
 regressing and that is unlikely to change by COP28, which will be held at the end of the year up the road from here in Dubai.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): But that doesn't mean the world can't correct its course before 2030. Ahead of this year's COP event, the panel's message is 
 
 clear, further, private investment in renewables is vital.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Climate change has already started.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): But that takes not just willingness to change, but a real roadmap for action. And that starts right here.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: The IRENA General Assembly, you saw there held on the sidelines of what is known as the Abu Dhabi sustainability week, and it was there 
 
 earlier today that I got a chance to sit down with the President of last year's COP COP27, Egyptian Foreign Affairs Minister Sameh Shoukry.
 
We spoke about the progress that was made at COP27 notably, the creation of a loss and damage fund to help vulnerable countries overcome the effects of 
 
 climate change. And the very real work that needs to be done as we move towards COP 28, which is at the end of the year, right here in the UAE have 
 
 a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SAMEH SHOUKRY, PRESIDENT, COP27: Personally loss and damage was a great success, long overdue 40 years in the making, and thereby to have included 
 
 it on the agenda. But not only done that, but to have created consensus on the establishment of the finance mechanism. The fund itself, I think, was a 
 
 forceful indication of the degree of cohesion and the desire to build trust within the state parties within the developing.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): The loss and damage work went a long way, I think to building or rebuilding the confidence and trust of so many people around 
 
 the world who felt like they didn't have a seat at the table. The file isn't close, though, when it comes to loss and damage, what more needs to 
 
 be done?
 
SHOUKRY: Well, first of all, we have to initiate the process to find the necessary architecture, governance mechanisms, and to be able on time to 
 
 deliver it to COP28 for endorsement. But more importantly is that once it is endorsed that we find the finance arrangements and the contributions 
 
 that can make it a viable mechanism of resilience.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Does that mean a contribution by China and India?
 
SHOUKRY: A contribution from all those who are able to do so. And again, the nature of most of these commitments is voluntary. So it is for each to 
 
 assess their abilities and to rise to the occasion.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Let's be quite clear here, a massive ratcheting up in investment in the decarbonization of the energy sector, and in further 
 
 climate finance. Loss and damage, a good example of where we might go, but we need to see more of that.
 
COP28 is at the end of this year, we are on the road to COP28 at this point, are you confident that we will see some serious action when it comes 
 
 to investment and that the private sector will come off the sidelines?
 
SHOUKRY: We hope so. We see that there's a great deal of interest from the private sector in terms of renewable energy. I think it's demonstrated its 
 
 ability to generate profits and thereby there is a more receptive and determined desire to take advantage of that.
 
And the technology as it is developing also, I think is creating the incentives for the private sector to become more closely associated with 
 
 specific projects whether it's wind or solar or green hydrogen. And the here again, the creation of the green hydrogen forum at our initiative and 
 
 with the support of Belgium is a as a way to create the framework for presenting projects that can have an impact.
 
What - as main shipping and their desire to go to net zero and their support of the production of green hydrogen and of Egypt being a green 
 
 hydrogen hub is an important aspect again, where the private sector is demonstrating its ability to impact the climate agenda.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): The Egyptian economy could do with a good growth story was climate action to be part of that I'm sure you will be delighted 
 
 because the economic picture in Egypt is not a good one? The pound has recently lost 50 percent of its value against the dollar. What is going on?
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
SHOUKRY: The expansion and the economic viability of renewable energy and the profits and the interest that has been demonstrated by the private 
 
 sector in investing in this sector is very personal and is already achievable to a great degree.
 
On the economic situation in general, I think we have to take into account that not only Egypt has been effective, but the whole international 
 
 community has Egypt embarked in 216 on a very aggressive economic reform program with the assistance of the IMF.
 
The IMF hailed Egypt for having finalized that program, and having instituted the necessary reforms in almost exemplary fashion. And then we 
 
 were hit by COVID and subsequently by Ukraine, and this has had an impact on us as it has had an impact on others.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Then I understand. But do you feel the Egyptian Government misjudged the global outlook since the last IMF loan? And the 
 
 Egyptian military has traditionally placed an outsize role in the economy? Will the government make strides to review the military's involvement in 
 
 the private sector and in the economy and if so, how soon?
 
SHOUKRY: I think we can refer to the state owned enterprise and we've just issued a paper that defines the government's policies in managing state 
 
 owned enterprises and what will be provided and sectors that will be sold off to the private sector to encourage further investment.
 
And I think we are in supported in this regard by the IMF program currently. So we as others are necessarily suffering but we, I think, are 
 
 putting in place the regulations, the incentives, and the frameworks in implementing the IMF program. And in dealing with the challenges, while 
 
 also recognizing the social dimension and having to deal with that, as well, because we cannot address these issues, except in a holistic manner.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Egypt's Foreign Minister discussing his nation's economy earlier, as you know, President of COP27, that conversation addressed the very, very 
 
 pressing issues of getting everybody around the table and hashing out how we protect our planet going forward.
 
That was just a taste of the coverage we'll be bringing you in the run up to COP28 later this year happening right here in Dubai in the UAE and all 
 
 this week, we'll be bringing you interviews with key stakeholders in the global energy transition do make sure to tune in to CONNECT THE WORLD with 
 
 me Becky Anderson only on CNN.
 
Right so we're going to have more for you from the Davos Summit later in the show and as key business leaders meeting in Switzerland UK charity, 
 
 Oxfam is calling for action on inequality and demanding new taxes on the world's super rich. Plus more civilian bloodshed in Ukraine and Lithuania's 
 
 Foreign Minister says there is one way to stop it. I talked with him right after this break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, a scene of rescues rubble and feeding the hope. A sickening pattern is repeated yet again in Ukraine. 40 people now confirmed killed 
 
 after a missile just sliced apart this apartment building in Dnipro over the weekend. It was one of the deadliest attacks of this war. The search is 
 
 still going on for dozens of people. But the Mayor admits it's unlikely they will find anyone else alive.
 
Well, in light of the attack, Germany's Foreign Minister is calling for a special panel to try Russian leaders for "Crimes of aggression against 
 
 Ukraine". Germany also under pressure to do more militarily, that will be an issue for the new Defense Minister after Christine - in here resigned 
 
 just a short time ago. Well, CNN's Frederik Pleitgen is on the ground for us from the Dnipro where the anger and the anguish Fred, it seems 
 
 overwhelming.
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, you're absolutely right, Becky. I would say the anger the anger certainly is very 
 
 much overwhelming for a lot of people. And we've been witnessing some really tragic scenes as we've been covering all of this yesterday and 
 
 throughout the day today, with people just breaking down in tears, people cursing Russia, for this attack.
 
Obviously the Russians themselves at this point in time saying they were not behind it the Ukrainians not having any of that though. But right now, 
 
 of course for the authorities here on the ground this remains as you correctly pointed out a race against time.
 
They understand and they acknowledge that it's highly unlikely that they are going to be able to find any more people alive underneath the rubble. 
 
 Nevertheless, the Ukrainian President says that this will remain a rescue operation as long as there's even the slightest hope of finding anyone 
 
 alive here's what we witnessed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): The morning brings to light the full extent of the destruction the residential building home to dozens of families annihilated 
 
 down to the foundation. Even though rescue crews still work the chances of finding survivors now virtually zero.
 
All night residents watched in fear, anger and grief. Nevin Shanaya says she passed by the building only about half an hour before this. There are 
 
 many friends and people close to me here many, many she says. Elena stunned by the scale of the destruction curses the Russians. I simply hate them 
 
 children people die here. We can't speak anymore.
 
Throughout the night, the death toll continued to jump. On top of the many killed Ukrainian authorities say dozens were injured, many of them 
 
 children. In just this location Dnipro one of many sites in Ukraine, Russia targeted with barrages of missiles this weekend.
 
The Ukrainian say the reason why the damage here is so extensive is that this building was hit with a cruise missile called the KH 22 that's 
 
 designed to destroy aircraft carrier strike groups. And obviously, when it hits the building, it completely annihilated burying dozens of people 
 
 underneath. The Ukrainians call the attack state terrorism. And the President says rescuers will continue to try and save anyone trapped here.
 
Let's fight for every person President Zelenskyy says the rescue operation will last as long as there is even the slightest chance to save a life. But 
 
 even the slightest hope has now all but died. And this is essentially a recovery operation the crews searching for bodies where so many lives were 
 
 violently ended in an instant.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
PLEITGEN: And Becky since that the Kremlin has come out and vehemently denies that the Russians were behind this. They say that the Russians don't 
 
 target civilian areas and instead said that they believe that it was a Ukrainian air defense missile that went astray and hit this building the 
 
 Ukrainians of course not having any of that.
 
They say they're absolutely certain that it was a KH 22 cruise missile that crashed into this building and the Ukrainian say they will need a lot more 
 
 and better air defense systems as they are to defend against cruise missiles like that Becky.
 
ANDERSON: How much more is the question?
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
We are going to speak after you to a guest who will talk to us about what they believe are needed next. What is the current messaging from the 
 
 Ukrainians?
 
PLEITGEN: Well, the Ukrainians certainly say that air defense system is something that's really important. I think one of the things that all of 
 
 them are looking forward to next is going to be that meeting and Ramstein for the Ramstein contact group. That's going to happen on Friday, where of 
 
 course a lot of important decisions could be made.
 
One of them, of course, could be main battle tanks for Ukraine, but air defense certainly remains one of the main priorities. And Becky, we do know 
 
 that right now Ukrainian troops are being trained in the United States on the Patriot anti-aircraft system, one is being provided by the United 
 
 States, one will be provided by Germany.
 
That the Ukrainian state is an important first step, because that's a very long range air defense system that could have a chance to knock out one of 
 
 those cruise missiles like for instance, the KH 22 even though that is still very difficult.
 
But the Ukrainians say they will need a lot more help defending their skies, a lot more systems to help defend their skies. It is obviously a 
 
 very difficult task, and certainly one where they hope they say they hope the international community will do a lot more to help them keep their 
 
 citizens safe, and obviously keep their city safe as well Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Fred, thank you. My next guest has got perspective on this tweeting, "The people of Ukraine should have the weapons they need in order 
 
 to fight back. We should look for ways to help faster not find reasons why we should be delaying".
 
Gabrielius Landsbergis is the Foreign Minister of Lithuania. He joins me now from the World Economic Forum in Davos. And I will ask you to just give 
 
 us a sense of what it is that you will be addressing the audience there with what your message is likely to be at this stage? So do you believe 
 
 some countries are trying to stall sending weapons to Ukraine? And if so, what do you mean by that?
 
GABRIELIUS LANDSBERGIS, LITHUANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: Well, first of all, I think that we can clearly see that the events in Ukraine, the most horrible 
 
 events, make us send the weapons that Ukrainians need. So at first it was attack on Kyiv then we sent javelins and stingers, then it was Bucha, and 
 
 Irpin, when we started sending high mars, and now obviously, we are seeing Dnipro.
 
And now the debate about the tanks is finally getting some getting some fuel. I don't think that's right, right attitude. Honestly, I don't think 
 
 that Ukrainian civilians should be paid with their lives in order to get the weapons that they need. I think we have to be way more serious about 
 
 how do we see this war ending.
 
And it has to end in Ukraine, by training us winning the territories that are now currently under Russian occupation. And for that, most of all they 
 
 need, they need weaponry, and all kinds of weaponry. And first and foremost, it's tanks and main battle tanks. Germany has them Britain has 
 
 them, the United States has them. And also long range rockets, rockets that could be used in order to push Russian troops out of the occupied 
 
 territories.
 
ANDERSON: You talk to enough of your sort of colleagues around Europe to know what the current thinking is. Do you believe we're entering a new 
 
 phase in this war? And do others in Europe agree? And if so, do you believe the Ukrainians will get what they want at this point? I know you're 
 
 suggesting they should. But what are they likely to get and what's holding up the delivery of further military hardware?
 
LANDSBERGIS: Well, I think that we - basically the discussion in the West, is still about the end of the war. And there are those who believe that 
 
 maybe a frozen conflict would be suited better, which I completely disagree with that notion. But this notion, this thinking is, I think the main 
 
 obstacle for some countries to sending the weapons that trainees need.
 
And indeed, it took a very long time almost a year now to get to the points where we're actually are discussing sending tanks. And honestly, I would 
 
 not be extremely surprised if the tank debate would be productive in the sense that the Ukrainians would get their hands on the tanks.
 
I think that we need to make sure that every country that supporting Ukraine would get to the point and agree on the final point to how this war 
 
 should end? That we all need to agree on the fact that Ukraine needs to win the war needs to get Russia out of its territories if we want European 
 
 continent to be safe again.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
And if you want the global security order to get back into what it was before, and for that Russia needs to lose. And for that we have to imagine 
 
 and understand that Ukraine is actually still fighting against the superior force. Therefore, there's no way we can leave them with what where they are 
 
 now and with the weapons that they currently have.
 
ANDERSON: The Polish Prime Minister today calling on the Germans to do more too. And I quote him here to supply all sorts of weapons to Ukraine. Do you 
 
 believe that German should be doing more?
 
LANDSBERGIS: Well, honestly, yes. I concur that there are machinery. There are weapons that industrial Western powers such as Germany, France, and 
 
 others, can still deliver to Ukraine. But there's also a second thing in this story is that a lot of countries have already procured German made 
 
 tanks.
 
Among those is Finland, and then some other Nordic countries and South European countries, and they're willing to send the tanks to Ukraine. So 
 
 far, they have not got the green light from Berlin. And I truly, truly hope that this his might change as well. And that would reduce the pressure on 
 
 Germany itself, meaning that maybe they cannot send all the tanks that Ukraine need, currently, but with partners that have German tanks, it would 
 
 be a substantial help to Ukraine.
 
ANDERSON: You're in Davos. You're due to speak at the World Economic Forum. How important do you believe that this audience is? And can you just 
 
 explain further what your message might be or will be?
 
LANDSBERGIS: Well, I think it's very important to speak because this is a mix of not just politicians, but also business people and non-governmental 
 
 organizations. And especially when you're talking to business people, I would believe that they are worried about instability that started in 2020, 
 
 with COVID pandemic, and now the war.
 
And the message would be my message would be of how do you get back to the world that was before the war? And, again, I will just repeat myself that 
 
 in order to get back, we all have to do everything it takes to help Ukraine win. That's the only way to get back to stability.
 
And of course, the world will probably will never be the same as it was before. But if we want to start planning, not just a month in advance, not 
 
 just a year in advance, but start planning like we used to in decades. So for that Ukraine praying needs to win. And that has to be an objective, not 
 
 just for this - and everybody who's attending Davos now.
 
ANDERSON: Briefly, let me ask you, do you believe or fear, war fatigue amongst European countries at present, perhaps not your own. But wolf dig 
 
 amongst leadership and populations, and potentially a war fatigue in the United States? We've seen a change to the sort of makeup of Congress there. 
 
 How concerned are you?
 
LANDSBERGIS: Well, so far, all the allies stood by Ukraine, at least politically. I mean, I've wished that practically we could have, we should 
 
 have done more, we could have done more. But we stood by Ukraine. Unfortunately, and the most horrific fact is that it requires in some 
 
 cases, a very tragic news coming from Ukraine in order to push into action to push us into action, and maybe some sometimes to push us out of this 
 
 fatigue that you're talking about.
 
So Ukraine is truly paying the highest possible price for their independence and for their territorial sovereignty.
 
ANDERSON: With that said, we're going to leave it there. We were having a few technical issues towards the end of that, but I know the viewers will 
 
 have heard the majority of what you said and your insight and analysis is extremely important. Thank you very much indeed.
 
Just ahead, backlash on the streets of Israel against that country's new hard right government more on that after this. Also coming up there's an 
 
 international outcry and growing outrage over another execution in Iran. Take your break back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, there will not be a government with a dictator. That's what some protesters have been chanting during one of the latest anti-government 
 
 demonstrations in Israel. Undaunted by rain more than 80,000 protesters turned out on Saturday night in Tel Aviv to send a message to the new hard 
 
 right administration.
 
Benjamin Netanyahu is on trial on corruption charges his back in power and the Israeli Prime Minister proposed judicial reforms, which are causing 
 
 controversy. Let's bring in CNN's Hadas Gold live from Jerusalem. Just explain what's going on here and the background to these demands.
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Becky was really interesting. We were at this protest, and it was one of the biggest protests in recent memory in 
 
 Israel. But what brought these people out wasn't necessarily the makeup of this new right wing government.
 
We've been talking about how some of the ministers now in power were once considered extreme right wing fringe. These are people who some of them are 
 
 against LGBTQ rights. These are people who are pro settlements; some of them even want to annex the West Bank.
 
It was the possible what they see as the possible destruction of the Israeli judiciary, and what they believe could mark the beginning of the 
 
 end of Israeli democracy if these legal reforms, the Netanyahu and his government want to happen actually take place.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD (voice over): In Tel Aviv's Habima Square, a left wing battle cry for democracy. Israel will not be a dictatorship they chant as more than 80,000 
 
 brief pouring rains to send a message to Benjamin Netanyahu's newly formed right wing government, and its proposed reforms to Israel's judicial 
 
 system.
 
Reforms that would give Israeli parliament the ability to overturn Supreme Court decisions and give politicians control over judicial selection, the 
 
 most drastic changes to Israel's legal system since the country's founding.
 
BERNARD ATTALLI, PROTESTER: The Government and Benjamin Netanyahu try to change the system in such a way that, there will be no control of the 
 
 government decisions. So which is a loss of democracy?
 
GOLD (on camera): Now, the protesters here telling me that they see these changes as threatening their way of life threatening the rule of law 
 
 threatening minorities, and they also see this proposed changes as a way for Benjamin Netanyahu to ultimately get out of his ongoing corruption 
 
 trial.
 
YAEL KATZ, PROTESTER: Our equality and our democracy, are in a really situation that it can be no democracy anymore, and that's why I'm afraid.
 
GOLD (voice over): But Netanyahu denies the judicial reforms are for his benefit. He says these are long needed changes the will of the people who 
 
 voted for his right wing government in the November elections that the parliament will hear all positions before implementing changes.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: We are not weakening the judicial system. We are strengthening all our systems democracy and the 
 
 rule of law that are all dependent on the correct balance between the three institutions.
 
GOLD (voice over): But the President of the Israeli Supreme Court attacked the proposed reforms in an unusually fiery speech.
 
ESTHER HAYUT, PRESIDENT, ISRAELI SUPEME COURT: Unfortunately, as the presented program comes into being Israel's 75th year will be remembered as 
 
 the year the democratic identity of this country was fatally harmed.
 
GOLD (voice over): Opponents of these changes say that without a majority in parliament, and without a written constitution, their best way of 
 
 fighting back is a constant drumbeat of public outcry that they hope will stop what they see as ruin, not reform.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD: Now, backers of the reform have long accused the Supreme Court the Israeli Supreme Court of overreach and elitism, and there have been 
 
 suggestions for reform in the past, but these would be really some of the most drastic changes to the Israeli legal system since its founding.
 
Now, the question will be whether this movement that this protest seems to have started will continue? Whether we will see those same types of numbers 
 
 of more than 80,000 taking to the streets on a regular basis, and whether that will keep the pressure up and in any way possibly affect these 
 
 possible incoming reforms, Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Hadas Gold is in Jerusalem for you. Hadas thank you. Well, American wrongfully detained in Iran is launching a hunger strike to mark a 
 
 milestone. In a letter to the U.S. President Joe Biden - Namazi says he is starting the seven day strike to mark the seven years since he was left out 
 
 of a prisoner swap between Washington and Tehran.
 
Now this comes amid growing international outrage over a string of executions by Tehran. Alireza Akbari, a British Iranian dual citizen was 
 
 executed last week of being accused of spying for Britain. Tehran is also being condemned for death sentences issued for dozens of protesters. 
 
 Several have already been executed. CNN's Salma Abdelaziz joins us now from London with the very latest on what we are seeing in Tehran and - from 
 
 Tehran in Iran and the response to it Salma?
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely Becky, since this protest movement began in Iran last September after the death in custody of Mahsa 
 
 Amini. We've seen almost every single province in Iran rocked by these demonstrations.
 
Now they have slowed in recent days, activists say the snow rising food costs and most critically, Becky that very brutal crackdown has kept people 
 
 scared and at home potentially. And that crackdown very much continues its latest victim rights group says is a dual British National Alireza Akbari; 
 
 take a look at his story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice over): A gruesome execution meant to send a chilling public message to Iranians at home and enemies abroad. Alireza Akbari, 
 
 Iran's Former Deputy Defense Minister and a Dual British Iranian citizen was hanged by Iran on charges of espionage and corruption according to 
 
 state media.
 
Akbari was accused with working as a spy for MI-6 and reportedly provided information about dozens of Iranian figures, including the country's Chief 
 
 Nuclear Scientists, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who was assassinated in 2020 Iran says, but the UK called the execution of Akbari politically motivated and 
 
 it took swift diplomatic action, recalling its ambassador from Tehran and imposing sanctions against Iran's prosecutor general.
 
JAMES CLEVERLY, UK FOREIGN SECRETARY: We are sending today a clear message to the Iranian regime that we are watching closely what they do? We will 
 
 respond robustly to any actions that they take.
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice over): In an earlier tit for tat move, Tehran had summoned Britain's Ambassador over what it called the UK's unconventional 
 
 interventions. Akbari is the latest in a string of executions carried out by the Islamic Republic amid an unprecedented protest movement.
 
Amnesty International has accused Iran's authorities of what it calls a state sanctioned killing spree. Reportedly arrested in 2019 Akbari was seen 
 
 as a reformist figure. Observers say his execution now is meant to send a hard line and uncompromising message. His nephew living in Europe says he 
 
 was shocked to hear of his uncle's death.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
RAMIN FORGHANI, NEPHEW OF ALIREZA AKBARI: It was a surprise. My uncle was on top of the - on top of the regime from the beginning of his foundation 
 
 so that that person would not have wish into any shape or form to jeopardize the regime.
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice over): Escalating tensions further between Iran and the West already exacerbated by its support for the recent protests. But even 
 
 as the international community works to further isolate Iran, hardliners are doubling down.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ABDELAZIZ: Now the UK Foreign Secretary James Cleverly just about an hour ago, Becky, he was in Parliament giving an update on Akbari's case. He went 
 
 on to say and these are his words, describe the execution as shameful he called the Iranian regime, vicious.
 
And he went on to say that the diplomatic actions taken so far by the UK, those could continue. There could be other steps taken. And we're seeing 
 
 that of course, across the West, the U.S., the UK, and the EU all trying to isolate Iran as this protest movement takes hold.
 
Remember the nuclear agreement the JCPOA that's suspended the EU is considering more sanctions the UK considering more steps but as you know, 
 
 Becky, oftentimes a more isolated Iran could be a more dangerous Iran.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, absolutely. Salma thank you! Well, that was some of the world's richest people gather at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 
 
 Switzerland. A new report reveals just how extreme wealth inequality is becoming more on the gap and suggestions about how to close it are just 
 
 ahead?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Nepal is in mourning following the deadliest plane crash there for more than 30 years. The bodies of 69 victims have now been recovered 
 
 after a Yeti flight plummeted to the ground on Sunday in central Nepal.
 
Yeti Airline says 41 of the victims have been identified search operations at the crash site have been suspended for the night and will resume 
 
 tomorrow. With Nepali government is vowing to find out what caused the crash Vedika Sud with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A video on social media appears to show the passenger plane banking suddenly moments before the crash in 
 
 Western Nepal. On Sunday morning a Yeti Airlines operated flight embarked on a roughly 30 minute flight from the capital of Kathmandu to Pokhara the 
 
 country's second most popular city.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We heard a loud thunderous crash and reached our - to see what it had happened? We saw a lot of smoke and realized it was an 
 
 airliner crash and we rushed to the site.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
SUD: The flight was lost in contact with the Pokhara Airport about 18 minutes after takeoff before it came crashing down in the nearby River 
 
 Gorge. It's the deadliest air crash in more than three decades in Nepal.
 
Dozens of bodies have been pulled out of the gorge using cranes; some are yet to be identified by family members. On Monday, rescue teams retrieved 
 
 the black boxes, the flight data and cockpit voice recorder that could help understand the moments leading up to the crash.
 
The Himalayan country has a record of air accidents due to its mountainous topography and sudden changes to the weather. But in this case, officials 
 
 say it was a clear day. The Nepal Government has set up a panel to probe the air accident and will hopefully find answers to what led to the third 
 
 worst aviation accident in Nepal's history. Vedika Sud, CNN, New Delhi
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: What is going on? Apologies I want to get you to what is going on - we also will be at the World Economic Forum Meeting in Davos this week. 
 
 The Annual Summit kicking off this morning with some of the world's wealthiest business and political leaders in attendance.
 
We say that every year don't we? Climate is top of the agenda this year. But for some protesters who have descended on the town where the conference 
 
 is held financial inequality is equally if not more urgent this year.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PHIL WHITE, MEMBER, PATRIOTIC MILLIONAIRES, UK: Were in favor of wealth taxes, we really want to reduce this level of wealth inequality in the 
 
 world. It's so corrosive to society. By betting for those guys meeting would be think to yourselves and talk to your friends. Are you sure you're 
 
 not the problem rather than thinking you're the solution?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDRESON: Well, I'd send him and being echoed by UK Charity Oxfam in a report released ahead of the summit. They are calling for the worlds or new 
 
 taxes, certainly on the world's wealthiest individuals. Report found that the richest 1 percent received nearly get this twice as much money as the 
 
 rest of the world combined in the past two years.
 
Well, the headline may be more startling, I do feel as if it's a little bit like Groundhog Day, because joining us now from London is Anna Stewart. 
 
 Anna, I am pretty confident that we have had this discussion before around Davos as the sort of great in the good.
 
Certainly those who earn the most it seems get to the top of the hill, the content of this report doesn't really seem too different from what we've 
 
 heard before. You've been taking a look at it, what have you pulled out?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Well, I think that's the most depressing fact of it all, really, is that we get this report from Oxfam on the eve of 
 
 Davos every year before the meeting, when the elite all gather in this very swish ski resort in Davos. And every year, we find out that the wealthy 
 
 have got wealthier, and inequality gap just seems to get wider.
 
And it's really no different this year. It's good to see some protesters are out there braving the cold, waving their banners. Now, according to 
 
 this report, you came through some of the facts of how much wealthy the wealthy have got.
 
You can see there, the top 1 percent have gained $26 trillion versus the rest of the world. And actually, in this report, they say every billionaire 
 
 is a policy failure because Oxfam believes that with a change of policy, we could see much bigger wealth redistribution, and that is what they want to 
 
 see.
 
So they do come up with some solutions in this report. For instance, they want to have a onetime wealth tax on the rich. They want windfall taxes on 
 
 companies to end profiteering off things like the war in Ukraine, think about those energy companies and the huge profits they've made. Where does 
 
 that go to the shareholders? And also, I thought this one was interesting, a permanent increase of taxes on the richest 1 percent to at least 60 
 
 percent of their income from labor, and also from capital.
 
And I find this one interesting, because it suggests, of course, that you could actually tax people on their shares that they have like Elon Musk. 
 
 How would they pay for their huge value of the shares they hold? Well, they probably have to sell some.
 
So some real action there to be taken, according to Oxfam but Becky, the question is will anyone actually do anything about it? Given we get this 
 
 report almost every single year I do question whether it will actually move the needle? But it will put pressure on policymakers and these figures are 
 
 useful for lobby groups.
 
ANDERSON: Well, I'm sure Richard Quest and Julia Chatterley will be cross examining those that they interview at Davos this year about this report 
 
 because they are there. They will be covering events do join both of them as we kick off our Davos coverage this year.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
All right, coming up on CONNECT THE WORLD, we are going to connect you with an influential Emirati art collector to see what the Middle East has in 
 
 store for art in 2023? Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back! An essential part of life in France is under threat from the rising cost of energy and other daily necessities as Melissa Bell 
 
 now reports. Some bakers are reacting or resorting to desperate measures to save the baguette?
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN REPORTER (voice over): It is before dawn that France comes to life. In 33,000 Julien - across the country, the baguette 
 
 continuing to rise despite the soaring costs of flour and butter. But Pedussel now starts his day in partial darkness trying to save money. His 
 
 electricity bill tripled in November. December's was simply too high to pay.
 
JULIEN PEDUSSEL, MANAGER, LE FOURNIL DE RIEUX: Can you imagine you lose everything just because there's an energy supplier who's decided to 
 
 multiply your bill by 10? It's outrageous. It's totally outrageous. It's theft, literally theft.
 
BELL (voice over): In January Pedussel did something he never thought he'd have to take into the street to draw attention to the plight of bakers 
 
 across the country. The French Government has ordered modest measures to help baker's deal with a spike in energy costs. But many say it's nowhere 
 
 near enough.
 
DOMINIQUE ANRACT, PRESIDENT, NATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FRENCH BAKERS AND PATISSERIES: What we're talking about are really small businesses. 80 
 
 percent have fewer than 10 employees. They're solid businesses that have never complained, but they are being hit hard.
 
BELL (voice over): A cruel irony that the crisis is struck even as UNESCO is given the biggest culture special stasis.
 
EMMANUEL MACRON, FRENCH PRESIDENT: In these few centimeters of craftsmanship passed from hand to hand, legs, exactly the spirit of French 
 
 know how? That is something inevitable. It seems to be just something material. But it's not.
 
BELL (voice over): It isn't just that the - is the staple of the French diet. But that the bakery is also such an important part of the social 
 
 fabric of life here in France. You'll find one on most Parisians feet corners. But in the countryside in villages, they're often the only 
 
 businesses around. But that ubiquity is also what makes it difficult for bakers to pass on their costs.
 
CHARLES YE, CO-OWNER, UNION BAKERY: We prefer to not do that. And most of the bakeries are not doing that. Just because it's so crucial it's like the 
 
 price of the coffee like gas. Like a rise by two or three it would be like revolution.
 
BELL (voice over): Which leaves French bakers sandwiched between the soaring costs of baking and the bread that is so much more than a symbol, 
 
 but rather the way of French life? Melissa Bell CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, just time for our parting shots tonight. At arts and culture from the Middle East if you check into a hotel in Saudi Arabia this 
 
 year, take a look at the art on the walls. Chances are it will be from Saudi artists the country's Ministry of Culture recently announced that 
 
 hotels in the Kingdom must acquire the artworks of local artists.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
It's a movement to support the country's growing art scene. And a special honor for the Syrian Oud. The musical instrument has been added to UNESCO's 
 
 Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity list. Well, Oud played throughout the Middle East known for their pure notes and unique sound, but in Syria, 
 
 demand for them declined during the war and the materials to make them became too expensive.
 
Well, now enthusiasts are hoping the UNESCO listing will revive interest in the instruments. They are wonderful to listen to. Thanks for joining us. 
 
 CNN continues of course after this short break, we'll see you same time tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END