Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Trump to Be Arrested in Documents Probe; Ukraine and Russia Both Report Intense Front-Line Fighting; Three Dead in Nottingham after "Serious Incident"; Core U.S. Inflation Stays Hot; Chris Christie Hammers Trump on Indictment; JPMorgan Settles with Jeffrey Epstein's Victims; Silvio Berlusconi's Funeral Set for Wednesday. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired June 13, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNNI HOST (voice-over):  I'm Becky Anderson, live from Abu Dhabi where the time is 6:00 in the evening, this is CONNECT THE WORLD, you 
 
 are more than welcome. 
 
Coming up this hour. Donald Trump supporters gather in Florida ahead of his court appearance later today. 
 
At least 11 people are killed in Ukraine in overnight missile strikes. 
 
Nottingham City center in the U.K., in shock after apparently linked attacks killed three. 
 
And global markets awaiting a decision on U.S. interest rates as the Federal Reserve begins a two-day meeting. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Arrested, fingerprinted and read his rights:  all eyes are on Miami, Florida, today, where history will be made about five hours from 
 
 now. That is when former president Donald Trump will appear in court and become the first U.S. president to face federal charges. 
 
In a 37-count indictment, Trump is accused of keeping secret documents after he left office and refusing to give them back. CNN's Carlos Suarez is 
 
 outside the courthouse. 
 
Let's just set out for our viewers, a tick-tock of today's events, if you will. 
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, that's right, Becky. Good morning. 
 
So the former president is expected here at a federal courthouse in Miami in about four hours. We are told that he is going to be brought in through 
 
 an underground parking garage and is going straight to court. 
 
We are told that arraignment, that hearing, is going to be done in a pretty relatively short period of time. It should only take a few minutes. He is 
 
 expected to plead guilty and then he is going to leave this courthouse. We really do not expect to see him, beyond his motorcade, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Donald Trump calling on supporters to turn out in protest. Peacefully, he says. But there are always concerns, of course, that things 
 
 could get out of hand. 
 
How are police in the city preparing?
 
SUAREZ:  Well, Becky, the chief of the Miami Police Department says he has enough resources, he has enough officers, to deal with a crowd of Trump 
 
 supporters as well as Trump protesters. 
 
While close to about 50,000 people, that was the number he put out, it's important to note, we have not seen a whole lot of folks. We are not 
 
 expecting the former president out here until later this afternoon. 
 
Going into today there was some concern about whether law enforcement would be ready to deal with this type of crowd. Here is where things stand right 
 
 now. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SUAREZ (voice-over):  In just hours, former president Donald Trump will surrender at a federal courthouse in Miami. 
 
CHIEF MANUEL MORALES, MIAMI POLICE DEPARTMENT:  Make no mistake about it, we are taking this event very serious. We know that there is a potential of 
 
 things taking a turn for the worse. But that's not the Miami way. 
 
SUAREZ (voice-over):  Federal and local law enforcement officials are ramping up security around the courthouse, expressing mounting concerns 
 
 over potentially large crowds of Trump's supporters gathering outside. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We have unwavered (sic) support for Donald Trump. Like we don't even care if he's going to be in jail. And we have to write 
 
 him in. You know, to a lot of us, it's like Trump or nothing. 
 
SUAREZ (voice-over):  Federal law enforcement is only tasked with securing the actual courthouse. Miami police taped off the area with yellow police 
 
 tape and erected yellow barricades. 
 
SHIMON PROKUPECZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT:  Will that change?
 
Because there is a lot of concern that people may try to storm the building or try to enter some of that area. 
 
Are you going to harden that area?
 
MORALES:  What I can tell you is reach back to the poles out of reach to you (ph) and tell them that there is no reason to fear. 
 
SUAREZ (voice-over):  Former Miami police chief George Kolyma (ph) told CNN that the choice not to establish barriers around the courthouse could be 
 
 intentional by Miami police in order to avoid attracting crowds. 
 
Trump is expected to be driven by Secret Service to an underground garage at the courthouse. He will not be seen by the public. Once he arrives, he 
 
 will be placed under arrest, read his rights and fingerprinted. He will likely not have a mug shot taken. 
 
Trump will then be taken to a courtroom on one of the top floors of the courthouse, where he will hear the charges and enter his initial plea of 
 
 not guilty. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
SUAREZ (voice-over):  Judge Jonathan Goodman, who is presiding over the arraignment, rejected a request from a large group of national media 
 
 outlets to take photographs inside the courthouse before the proceedings. 
 
In a written order, he says, while the proceeding is, quote, "generally historic and of huge importance, allowing photographs would undermine the 
 
 massive security arrangements put in place." 
 
Trump's supporters gathered at Trump's Doral Club greeting him as he pulled up in his motorcade, giving the crowd a thumb's up. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We followed him anywhere. And we will do anything legal to stop this. 
 
SUAREZ (voice-over):  Police had to intervene to break up a few anti-Trump demonstrators after they clashed with supporters. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Lock him up. 
 
SUAREZ (voice-over):  One protester, wearing a striped prison jumpsuit, said this. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I grew up in New York City. I know what a con artist he is. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SUAREZ:  And so the law enforcement presence out here in Miami is expected to grow by the hour. Just a few minutes ago, a street near this courthouse 
 
 has closed. It is part of the courthouse we believe the former president will pull up in his Secret Service detail.
 
And just a few seconds ago we spotted about 2 dozen Miami police officers. All of them on bike patrol. Becky, the big question going into this 
 
 appearance here by the former president, of course, is just going to be the type of crowd that will show up here both in support of the former 
 
 president and those who oppose him. 
 
ANDERSON:  Carlos Suarez is in Miami, in Florida, where the time is just after 5 past 10 in the morning. Expect more to come in the hours to come. 
 
 Thank you, sir. 
 
To the war in Ukraine, now and another deadly attack on civilian infrastructure. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  This is the aftermath of a missile attack on an apartment building in central Ukraine. City officials report 11 people 
 
 killed and more than 2 dozen injured. This latest Russian aerial assault happening as both Russia and Ukraine report intense fighting in the eastern 
 
 Donetsk and southern Zaporizhzhya region. 
 
Ukraine says it has recaptured seven villages in the past week. Meantime, the head of the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog is due to arrive in Ukraine today, 
 
 to meet president Volodymyr Zelenskyy and tour the Zaporizhzhya nuclear plant. 
 
Now Rafael Grossi's visit comes amid concerns over the plants cooling system after the collapse of the critical Nova Kakhovka dam. The breach 
 
 flooded both Russian and Ukrainian-held areas and caused deaths on both sides. Sam Kiley watching these developments for us today out of Kyiv. 
 
We will come to the battleground and what we understand going on there, momentarily. 
 
Firstly, what do we know about these overnight attacks?
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, we know that Kryvyi Rih was hit by a cruise missile, one of many, at least 14, that the 
 
 Ukrainians say were fired against the country. 
 
They said they shot them or almost all of them down. But every now and again, one of them gets through. That is really the policy that we have 
 
 seen emerge or tactic of the Russians, to send in large numbers of cruise missiles, often blended in with cheap Shahed drones, overwhelm the air 
 
 defenses and get these missiles through. 
 
Bear in mind, 11 people killed as a consequence, many more injured, as a residential building has been hit by a high precision missile carrying 
 
 about 400 kilograms in all, close to half a ton or more of high explosives. 
 
It is certain, if they hit a civilian target, that the damage will be catastrophic. That is exactly what we have seen time and again in the 
 
 latest iteration. We see it in the central city of Kryvyi Rih, Becky. Yet another example of the precision targeting of civilians by the Russian 
 
 Federation -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  And you are absolutely right to point out this is about human life being lost in a city center, the result of cruise missiles being 
 
 lobbed at that city. 
 
What do you make -- and you're good at this; you keep a real eye on what's happening on the battlefield -- what do you make of the latest battle 
 
 reports? 
 
KILEY:  I think there are very dramatic developments in the south on that front line, Becky, between Zaporizhzhya, which is controlled by the 
 
 Ukrainians still, and Donetsk, which, of course, was captured by the Russians back in 2014-2015 as part of their initial land grab inside 
 
 Ukraine. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
KILEY:  That is a very, very heavily defended Russian front line position, been relatively quiet over the last few months, possibly as the Ukrainians 
 
 -- well, certainly as the Ukrainians prepared for these assaults that they are now conducting. 
 
Initially they were appearing to be much more probing assaults, looking for weaknesses in the Russian defensive lines, which, we know from satellite 
 
 imagery and from intelligence reports and indeed from the claims made by Russia, to be very substantial defensive lines there. 
 
Because that is the approach for the Ukrainians toward the Crimean Peninsula. Again a region captured by Russia in 2014. But clearly I think 
 
 what we're seeing there in the early stages of the counteroffensive that we have been talking about for so long, beginning in earnest. 
 
Concurrent with that, not necessarily part of the counteroffensive but likely, if the momentum goes with them, have been Ukrainian advances that 
 
 could be developed from a tactical to a strategic asset for the Ukrainians if they can prosecute more of those advances. 
 
They said they captured seven villages; they have advanced into a salient (ph) over the last week or 10 days -- calculating roughly 5 to 7 kilometers 
 
 deep at least into the areas that the Russians captured. 
 
That signals a significant advance on that front, too. 
 
ANDERSON:  Sam, always a pleasure, thank you. 
 
One of NATO's biggest air exercises  is now underway in the skies over Germany. A NATO spokesperson said the two-week exercise sends, quote, "a 
 
 clear message that NATO is ready to defend every inch of allied territory." 
 
Some 10,000 personnel, 250 aircraft from 25 nations are participating in the exercise known as Air Defender. 
 
And U.S. President Joe Biden is in fact meeting the secretary general of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, at the White House today ahead of a NATO summit in 
 
 Lithuania. Stoltenberg is due to step down as SG when his term ends in October. 
 
The NATO chief is traditionally European but needs the support of the U.S. President. Stoltenberg talked about his successor a little earlier on CNN. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL:  I have responsibility for almost all the sections in NATO, except for one, and that is how and -- how to 
 
 select my successor. My main focus (ph), that's for the 31 allies to decide. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Mr. Biden has not endorsed anyone so far. Possible replacements include senior officials from Britain, Denmark, the Netherlands and 
 
 Estonia. 
 
Investigation is underway after three people were found dead in the English northern city of Nottingham this morning. Two people were found dead near 
 
 the city center; another body found a few roads further down, all, witnesses say, a van hit three further people. 
 
One man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. Police say they are keeping an open mind over the possible motives. CNN's Nada Bashir joins us 
 
 now, from London with more details. 
 
What have the police said about this incident?
 
How is the local community reacting?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  You can imagine the shock, of course. We are still waiting for those finer details, from Nottingham police. In their 
 
 latest update, they have said we are keeping an open mind about the potential motive behind this attack. 
 
We do know one man, a 31-year-old male, has been arrested. He is currently in custody but that investigation is still very much ongoing. There 
 
 continues to be a heavy police presence and cordon lines across those three areas where those attacks happened. 
 
As you mentioned there, police have confirmed they were called shortly after 4 am this morning to reports of two individuals who were found dead 
 
 in the street in central Nottingham. After that, they were called to a second incident in which a van attempted to run over three individuals. 
 
As we understand at this stage, at least one of those individuals is currently in a critical condition in hospital, the other two involved in 
 
 that incident are still receiving treatment for minor injuries in hospital. 
 
And, of course, a third incident just a few roads down, in which another individual found dead in the street. Now according to police they believe 
 
 these three incidents were linked. That investigation is still ongoing. But as you can imagine this has really shaken people in the area. Take a listen 
 
 to what one witness had to say this morning. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  He looked in his mirror, saw a police car behind him. He then quickened up. There were two people. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Turning the corner, he went straight in to these two people. The woman went on the curb; the man went up in the air. It was such 
 
 a bang. Look I wish I never saw it because it's really shaken me up. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR:  A number of areas in the central area have been cordoned off. Forensic police have also been deployed as part of that investigation. 
 
 Local counselors have been expressing their shock and condolences and so has the British prime minister. 
 
Rishi Sunak issued a statement earlier today, saying, "I want to thank the police and emergency services for their ongoing response to the shocking 
 
 incident in Nottingham this morning. I am being kept updated on developments. 
 
"The police must be given the time to undertake their work. My thoughts are with those injured and the families of the loved ones, to those who have 
 
 lost their lives." 
 
It is important to underscore the motive is still unclear. That will be a primary focus for police officers as they continue their investigation. 
 
 They are said to be providing updates. As and when they do gather further information around this incident, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Nada, thank you very much indeed. 
 
Nada is on the story out of London for you. 
 
You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson, time here in the UAE 15 minutes past 6. 
 
Still to, come an unprecedented day in the United States, former president Donald Trump is set to be arraigned in a Florida courtroom on federal 
 
 criminal charges. We are live from Miami for you. 
 
Plus, a meeting of the U.S. Federal Reserve at a potential turning point in the fight against inflation. That is coming, up after this. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  In the coming hours, former U.S. President Donald Trump will step into a federal courtroom in Miami to face a 37-charge indictment. 
 
These are images coming to us from just outside that courthouse. The indictment alleges that Donald Trump mishandled classified documents after 
 
 he left office and conspired to obstruct justice. Trump denies any wrongdoing and calls the case a hoax. 
 
CNN's Kaitlan Collins joins us now from Miami. 
 
We are some hours away from expecting to see Donald Trump. He has been meeting with his legal team. Kaitlan, and, as we understand, he is trying 
 
 to add more representation. 
 
What can we expect in the coming hours once he arrives at that courthouse to face these 37 charges?
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, he is trying to add attorneys to his legal team. He has not been successful in doing so 
 
 yet. What you can expect here today are two of the attorneys you have seen previously representing the former president that will be going into the 
 
 court with him. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
COLLINS:  We may not actually see them go in but we are told those two attorneys are Todd Blanche and Chris Kise. Todd Blanche has only been on 
 
 Trump's legal team for two months at this point. Chris Kise was brought, on he is a former solicitor general of the state of Florida. 
 
He was brought on last fall to handle this documents case. But there was a lot of infighting in the legal, team he was pretty quickly sidelined. It's 
 
 not clear if this is going to be a lasting appearance for him on the team. 
 
He is going in, today because Trump failed to add any new attorneys to his team by this 3 pm arraignment that we are just expecting in a matter of 
 
 hours from now. We do know Trump will go in.
 
It will not look like what happened in New York, where you saw him go in. There is maybe a chance we won't see him at all. He is expected to be 
 
 fingerprinted, not actually physically arrested, once he is inside this courthouse. 
 
And then, of course, the proceeding should go rather quickly. We will see what comments the magistrate judge, Judge Goodman, who is overseeing this 
 
 today, what comments he will make. 
 
Of course Trump has been lashing out at the special counsel repeatedly on social media for the last several days, ever since that indictment was 
 
 unsealed, making all of these claims about Jack Smith. 
 
But today, he is not expected to do any talking, in court except, of course, to enter that plea, which we are told will be not guilty. 
 
ANDERSON:  You moderated the CNN town hall, recently, with Donald Trump. 
 
Knowing what you do about him, how much do you think or believe he will try and leverage these proceedings in the runup to next year's election?
 
Of course he is the front-runner for Republican candidate, for president, in 2024.
 
COLLINS:  I think I missed part of your question. But referencing the fact he is running, of course, and he's Republican front-runner, being charged 
 
 does not bar him from running. Being under indictment does not bar him from running, even if federal charges, which we should note, is historic. 
 
The first time a former president, here in the United States, has ever faced federal charges. 
 
The question, of course, will also be, after today, we should learn when the next court date is. That is when the Trump appointed judge, Aileen 
 
 Cannon, we expect will be overseeing that. 
 
So that is the question, when will this all actually happen?
 
Could this trial happen before the presidential election?
 
Would it potentially happen after?
 
We know Jack Smith, the special counsel, wants a speedy trial but it's not totally clear what that will look like. I should note, while we're here on 
 
 the ground in Miami, there have been a few Trump supporters milling about; not really a huge sizeable crowd. 
 
There's a big police presence here of course. Helicopters buzzing overhead, keeping an eye on everything to see what that looks like. If the security 
 
 they put here is enough, by the time the former president shows up here. 
 
ANDERSON:  Kaitlan Collins, fighting the sound of the choppers above, her thank you very much indeed for joining us for an insightful analysis from 
 
 outside the courthouse, in Miami. We will clearly stick with that story. 
 
Stay with CNN for more as the day continues. 
 
Well America's Federal Reserve Board meets on Tuesday, with the key decision to make about interest rates. That will be announced on Wednesday. 
 
 We have now seen 10 consecutive rate hikes as officials have tried to slow down the pace of inflation that took hold in the pandemic.
 
But some investors hope an 11th hour can be -- sorry; an 11th rate rise can be avoided for now with implications not only for the U.S. economy but 
 
 frankly for the rest of the global economy. CNN's Matt Egan following the big meeting from New York. 
 
We have had some data out, today. Let's just start with that. 
 
What does it indicate?
 
MATT EGAN, CNN BUSINESS SENIOR WRITER:  Becky, this is more indication that inflation continues to cool. Off of course, it's a huge relief. This time 
 
 last year, inflation was a wildfire, ready to consume the U.S. and in fact the world economy. It looks increasingly like the wildfire is not put out 
 
 but it does seem more contained. 
 
Today's report that the consumer prices increased by 4 percent, year over year in May. That's not healthy. But as you can see on your chart, that is 
 
 another step in the right direction. This is 11 straight months of cooling. We are miles away from the peak of that line chart, last summer, at 9.1 
 
 percent. That was a four decade high. 
 
So all of that is very good news. I think the bad news is that it does look like underlying inflation pressures are pretty stubborn here. Economists 
 
 look at core inflation. Core inflation was up 0.4 percent month over month. That is the third straight month with that reading. Also 5.3 percent year 
 
 over year. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
EGAN:  That really has not come down very much from the peak. That is well above what is considered healthy. I think, Becky, big picture here, it's 
 
 clear that inflation has gotten better but it's also clear it's nowhere near back to normal yet.
 
And in fact it may need some more inflation fighting medicine from the Fed. 
 
ANDERSON:  Does that mean a hike then this week?
 
Or are we at that point at which they can hold?
 
EGAN:  Well, Becky, it does look like today's inflation report does give the Fed cover to do nothing at tomorrow's meeting. Investors are becoming 
 
 increasingly confident that the Fed is going to keep interest rates steady after, as you can see on your screen, 10 consecutive interest rate hikes. 
 
The Fed is moving more aggressively than it has at any point since the early 1980s but at last check, markets were pricing a 94 percent chance the 
 
 Fed keeps rates steady. Tomorrow that is up from an 80 percent chance yesterday. 
 
As you can see that would be good news from the market perspective. U.S. markets are up as we speak, up modestly. This would also be good news for 
 
 consumers, who are already dealing with high borrowing costs for mortgages and car loans, student debt, credit card debt. 
 
They don't want to see interest rates go any higher. Unfortunately, though, the Fed may not be done, even though markets do think that the Fed is going 
 
 to do nothing tomorrow. There is roughly a two in three chance, as we speak, that the Fed has to do more work in July, raising interest rates by 
 
 another quarter of a point. 
 
And I think the question, Becky, is whether or not they can actually stop all together anytime soon and, of course, that is going to depend on what 
 
 happens next on the inflation and the jobs front. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes, absolutely. It's a critical time keep your eyes on it for us. Matt Egan is in the House. Thank you, Matt. 
 
Moving from monetary to fiscal policy, U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen plans to ask Congress to lend more money to developing countries with the 
 
 aim of countering the growing influence of China, according to a copy of her prepared remarks, which CNN has viewed. 
 
Yellen is expected to call for more investments in organizations like the International Monetary Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank and the 
 
 African Development Bank. 
 
To Yellen's point, Honduran president Xiomara Castro met with the Chinese leader Xi Jinping in Beijing on Monday after Honduras cut ties with Taiwan 
 
 and reestablished relations with Beijing in March. 
 
Earlier president Castro visited Tiananmen Square, where she laid a wreath and monument to China's fallen heroes and she also talked about areas of 
 
 cooperation and trade with Beijing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
XIOMARA CASTRO, HONDURAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  We have the possibility to discuss, plan and execute joint investment and confine 
 
 projects for infrastructure, highways, ports, airports, telecommunications, energy, food, security, research, science and technology, railway 
 
 construction between the Atlantic and the Pacific and a free trade agreement that considers our asymmetrics (ph). 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  The U.S. State Department shares the Treasury's concerns. Secretary of state Antony Blinken speaking out on China's expanding spying 
 
 presence in Cuba. Blinken says Beijing upgraded its intelligence facilities there four years ago but insists the U.S. has slowed its efforts to build 
 
 more bases in other locations. 
 
This comes just days after CNN and "The Wall Street Journal" reported that Cuba had agreed to let China build an electronic eavesdropping facility on 
 
 the island. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  We were briefed on a number of sensitive efforts by Beijing around the world to expand their overseas 
 
 logistics, basing, collection infrastructure, to allow them to project and sustain military power at the greater distance.
 
In fact based on the information we have, PRC conducted an upgrade of its intelligence collection facilities in Cuba in 2019. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Beijing and Havana are denying Cuba hosts Chinese spy bases, with Cuba's foreign minister calling Blinken's comments, "totally false," 
 
 and accusing the U.S. of hypocrisy. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNO RODRIGUEZ PARILLA, CUBAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator):  The United States maintains, against the will of the Cuban people, a military 
 
 base in the territory that it illegally occupies in the province of Guantanamo. 
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
PARILLA (through translator):  We are facing a new operation of disinformation. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  And elsewhere in Latin America, Iranian leadership on a diplomatic tour as well. President Ebrahim Raisi is in Venezuela, part of a 
 
 three nation tour of Latin America, to improve political and economic ties. 
 
There he met Venezuela's president, Nicolas Maduro, in Caracas on Monday. The two leaders announced they signed a series of agreements to broaden 
 
 cooperation. They are also boosting bilateral trade to $20 billion up from $3 billion. President Raisi is set to travel to Nicaragua and then to Cuba 
 
 next.  
 
While Donald Trump appears inside a federal courthouse, supporters will be cheering him on from the outside. Ahead, Trump followers are hitting the 
 
 road to Miami. Just how many, that is coming up.
 
And a little later, we will take you to Italy, where preparations are underway to say goodbye to Silvio Berlusconi, often described as one of his 
 
 country's most influential leaders. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Welcome back, I'm Becky Anderson, it is 6:30 in the evening here in Abu Dhabi. You are watching CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
For those of you who just joined us, you are more than welcome. Your headlines this hour:  officials in the Ukrainian city of Kryvyi Rih say 11 
 
 people were killed when Russian missiles hit civilian infrastructure, including an apartment building. 
 
More than two dozen are injured, a rescue operation to look for survivors has now ended. 
 
And investigation is underway, after three people were found dead in the English city of Nottingham. Two people were found dead near the city 
 
 center. Another body was found a few roads away. 
 
Also, witnesses say a van hit three further people. A man has been arrested on suspicion of murder. 
 
In the coming hours, the world will be watching as former U.S. President Donald Trump steps into a federal courthouse, in Miami, Florida, to face a 
 
 37 charge indictment. That indictment alleges that Donald Trump mishandled classified documents after he left office and conspired to obstruct 
 
 justice. 
 
Donald Trump says he is, quote, "totally innocent." 
 
ANDERSON:  In the meantime, U.S. Republican presidential candidate Chris Christie is slamming Trump over the mishandling of those documents. 
 
During a town hall with CNN, the former Trump ally and ex governor of New Jersey said that Donald Trump's conduct in the case is inexcusable for 
 
 someone who wants to be a President of the United States. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
ANDERSON:  That was just a fraction of his criticism of Trump, CNN's Omar Jimenez joins me now from New York, with more. 
 
Omar, if you wonder what stood out in Christie's town hall? 
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  He talked a lot about policy issues, including abortion access, mass shootings, the future of this country and 
 
 more. But really part of Chris Christie's strategy, campaign wise, is to take on Donald Trump directly. 
 
He leaned heavily into that. For example, when he talked about how Republicans lost the U.S. House of Representatives, the White House and 
 
 Senate under Donald Trump, he could've just said that. Instead, he made sure to call Trump a three-time loser. That's not all he, said either, take 
 
 a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHRIS CHRISTIE (R), FORMER NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR:  I have known him for 22 years. The only thing he understands is force. The only thing he 
 
 understands is coming right at him and making your case. 
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  JIMENEZ (voice-over):  Chris Christie didn't disappoint on his vow to take on Republican front runner, Donald Trump. In 
 
 a 90-minute CNN town hall, Christie took aim at the former president for his alleged mishandling of classified documents.
 
CHRISTIE:  It is a very tight, very detailed, evidence-laden indictment and the conduct in there is awful. Whether you like Donald Trump or you don't 
 
 like Donald Trump, this conduct is inexcusable in my opinion for somebody who wants to be president of the United States.
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  Christie not pulling any punches.
 
CHRISTIE:  Did someone remind him he's not the president anymore?
 
You don't need these things anymore. This is vanity run amok, Anderson, run amok, ego run amok and he is now going to put this country through this, 
 
 when we didn't have to go through it.
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  The former New Jersey governor slamming his other GOP rivals for not criticizing Trump.
 
CHRISTIE:  They are playing political games with you, because they think that if you kind of like Trump a little bit and I don't see anything bad 
 
 about Trump and then Trump kind of implodes and goes away, then you're more likely to vote for me.
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  Christie urging Republicans to think twice about the country. Christie issued this warning to voters.
 
CHRISTIE:  I am convinced that if he goes back to the White House, that the next four years will all be about him just settling scores. And he has 
 
 shown himself and I think most particularly in his post-presidency, to be completely self-centered, completely self-consumed and doesn't give a damn 
 
 about the American people in my view.
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  On policy, Christie took on the question over access to abortion.
 
CHRISTIE:  Leave it to the states. Let's leave it to the states and if the consensus emerges, we'll know and if the federal government feels the need 
 
 to step in that, I'll certainly consider that.
 
QUESTION:  Mr. President, Mr. President --
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  He also leveled plenty of criticism against President Biden.
 
CHRISTIE:  The reason we're struggling to make ends meet is because government spending under Joe Biden has gone completely out of control.
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  And then, took a dig at both Biden and Trump for their age.
 
CHRISTIE:  If those people are the nominees, they're going to be a combined 160 years old on Election Day. I'm sorry, guys, nobody beats Father Time. 
 
 Nobody does.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIMENEZ:  Now look, up to this, point Chris Christie has not polled at the top of GOP leader boards, trailing way behind the former president, Trump, 
 
 at this point. That said, the question is whether this town hall and others, will be able to create some sort of momentum to propel GOP primary 
 
 voters to boost him up on that polling leaderboard.
 
Bottom line, his campaign told, me the Chris Christie we saw in this town hall is the heart of their campaign. And to expect much more of that going 
 
 further. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes, and it's really interesting to hear him point out that the other contenders really are not calling Donald Trump out. It's absolutely 
 
 clear where Chris Christie's focus lies. And this was a man who was very close to Donald Trump, even in the sort of early days of his presidency. 
 
So it's fascinating to hear him in another CNN town hall for you folks. Thank you. 
 
The financial win for victims of convicted sex abuser, Jeffrey Epstein, JPMorgan has agreed to pay them $290 million. That settles a class action 
 
 lawsuit which accused the bank of enabling sex trafficking by the deceased financier when he was a client. CNN's Kara Scannell brings us the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  JPMorgan Chase agreed to pay $290 million to settle a lawsuit brought by victims of Jeffrey Epstein's sex-
 
 trafficking operations. The deal, which was announced on Monday, would resolve a lawsuit brought by a Jane Doe last year.
 
In the lawsuit, the victim alleges that the bank enabled Jeffrey Epstein's sex-trafficking operation by turning a blind eye to a number of red flags. 
 
 Among them, large cash withdrawals, as much as $750,000 in one year.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
SCANNELL:  Authorities allege it was those cash withdrawals that Epstein used to pay the underage girls and the recruiters who found them. David 
 
 Boies, a lawyer for one of the victims, said that it was a great day for survivors of Epstein and for justice. He said he expects more than 100 
 
 survivors to seek compensation under this deal.
 
Now the deal still requires the approval of a federal judge and as part of the settlement, JPMorgan will not admit or deny any wrongdoing -- Kara 
 
 Scannell, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Let's get you up to speed at some of the other stories on our radar right now. 
 
In Colombia, the oldest of four children to survive a plane crash is being hailed for her heroic role in caring for her siblings and keeping them 
 
 alive throughout the whole ordeal. After the crash, the kids survived for 40 days inside the Amazon jungle until rescue teams found them on Friday. 
 
The U.S. military says 22 service members were injured in northeastern Syria, in what is being described as a helicopter mishap. The statement 
 
 says no enemy fire was recorded at the time and the incident is now under investigation. 
 
A cyclone is expected to make landfall along the Pakistan-India border, on Thursday mass evacuations are now underway as the threat of heavy rain, 
 
 damaging, winds and coastal storm surge are expected across the region. 
 
You are watching CONNECT THE WORLD, with me Becky Anderson, live from Abu Dhabi. The time is 20 to 7 in the evening. Just ahead, colorful and 
 
 controversial, Silvio Berlusconi dominated Italy's culture and politics for many years. How he is being remembered is up next. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Italy is preparing to say farewell to the man who once called himself the Jesus Christ of politics. Flags being flown at half mast for 
 
 former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. He will be laid to rest after a state funeral on Wednesday. He died Monday at the age of 86 after 
 
 battling leukemia. 
 
Russian president Vladimir Putin calling him a true patriot and Italy's current leader says the controversial billionaire was one of the country's 
 
 most important public figures. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIORGIA MELONI, ITALIAN PRIME MINISTER (through translator):   Silvio Berlusconi was, most of all, a fighter. He was a man who never feared to 
 
 defend his beliefs. It was that courage, that determination which made him one of the most influential men in Italy's history. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Does the prime minister's words there reflect a sort of will of the people?
 
I wonder. CNN's Ben Wedeman joining us now live from Rome. 
 
What are the preparations for Wednesday and who will be at the funeral?
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, the preparations have been fairly rushed, keeping in mind he died at 9:30 am yesterday. And 
 
 tomorrow at 3 pm his funeral will take place in Milan at the Duomo or main cathedral, in the central piazza there. 
 
As far as the list of guests are concerned, we assume it will be prominent personalities in the realm of politics, business and the media. We 
 
 understand that the prime minister of Hungary, Viktor Orban, will be attending. 
 
But beyond that, it's not altogether clear that those who knew him best on the world stage, like George W. Bush or Tony Blair, whether they will be 
 
 attending or they will not -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Italy's current leader, our viewers heard her talking about a controversial billionaire. She described him as one of the country's most 
 
 important public figures. 
 
Do her words reflect the majority of people in Italy?
 
WEDEMAN:  Well, keep in mind that Giorgia Meloni is a member of the same coalition, leads the coalition of which the Fratelli d'Italia or rather the 
 
 Forza Italia, the party of Berlusconi, was a member. And therefore she certainly speaks perhaps for that tendency in Italian politics. 
 
And really, what you are seeing today is this spectrum of opinion, looking back on the legacy of Berlusconi, who served four times as prime minister, 
 
 longer than any other prime minister since the end of the Second World War. 
 
But here you get an idea of the difference of opinion. This is "Il Giornale," a newspaper affiliated with Berlusconi. The headline is, 
 
 "L'Ultimo Cavaliere," "The Last Knight."
 
And we have an editorial here that says, "self made man who changed world politics." And so obviously they take a very positive view of him. But 
 
 here, "il Fatto Quotidiano" is saying "Banana Republic." That's what they say he left as a legacy of Italy. 
 
Keeping in mind that during the 20 years when Berlusconi dominated Italian politics, the economy, despite all his promises of bringing his business 
 
 genius to running the country, the economy actually shrank. 
 
Italy's debt went through the roof and, basically, until now, the entire economy is suffering from the aftereffects of his rule. So it was a very 
 
 mixed legacy. 
 
But in the aftermath of his death, I think the tendency is, with the exception of this newspaper, is to take a fairly respectful view of the 
 
 departed, the lately departed. And perhaps as the days go by and the funeral is over, perhaps the critique of his legacy will be somewhat more 
 
 pointed -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Ben Wedeman, on the story for you. He is in Rome, where the time is 4:47. Reminding us today of the death of Silvio Berlusconi on Monday 
 
 morning. His state funeral will be held on Wednesday. 
 
And some inside analysis on just how this larger than life character will be remembered by Italy and, indeed, by leaders around the world. 
 
As a viewer of this program and our coverage of the climate crisis, you may be aware of what's known as arctic bottom water. It's considered crucial in 
 
 cooling the planet. 
 
Now researchers say it is fast disappearing. The British Antarctic Survey estimates the volume of this bottom water has shrunk more than 20 percent 
 
 over the last 30 years. And that is a huge problem, because it acts as a buffer against climate change by absorbing excess heat and man-made carbon 
 
 pollution. 
 
We are facing a global crisis with many issues ahead of us. I am here in the UAE, an arid region at grave risk if temperatures get any higher. 
 
 Dubai, just down the road from this studio, will be hosting the U.N.'s climate change conference, COP28, at the end of this year. 
 
And I've been talking to the UAE's ambassador to the U.N. about why the UAE can be a valuable host. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LANA NUSSEIBEH, UAE AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.:  The UAE has always said that climate is the defining challenge of our time. It is an existential 
 
 challenge to so many countries around the world. 
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
NUSSEIBEH:  Including the Middle East, where scarce water resources and food resources and rising temperatures mean that we are at the forefront of 
 
 this fight against climate change. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  And you can watch the full interview with me and Lana Nusseibeh, ambassador for the UAE to the U.N., next hour of CONNECT THE WORLD. We will 
 
 be discussing the UAE's rise as a major climate investor and as a committed force for action, both here in the region and globally. 
 
Coming up, why Seoul is dripping in purple. We will show you what the South Korean capital is celebrating, after this short break. Stay with us.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  The calls and concerns or calls of concerns and what are known as guardrails for artificial intelligence continue to grow, with some 
 
 technology experts now calling for a global body to police the rise of AI, an idea that the U.N. secretary general supports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY-GENERAL:  Alarm bells over the latest form of artificial intelligence, generative AI, are deafening. And 
 
 they are loudest from the developers who designed it. 
 
These scientists and experts have called on the world to act, declaring AI an existential threat to humanity on a par with the risk of nuclear war. We 
 
 must take those warnings seriously. 
 
But I would be favorable to the idea that we could have artificial intelligence, an agency, with, I would say, in -- inspired by what the 
 
 International Agency of Atomic Energy is today. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, Antonio Guterres has proposed an advisory group to review AI regulation and offer recommendations on how AI can be used to support 
 
 human rights and the rule of law. But the idea would need approval from U.N. members. 
 
Well, consensus around how AI should be regulated and is no easy task. It's important to note that AI is not limited to large language models such as 
 
 ChatGPT. In fact, last year, the largest portion of AI investment was in the medical sector, with $6.1 billion. 
 
And the UAE is closely monitoring these developments in recent years. It created the position of minister of state for artificial intelligence back 
 
 in 2017, tasked with investing in and applying the latest technologies that the booming sector has to offer. 
 
I sat down with the country's AI minister, Omar Al Olama, last month, where he told me that a key factor in regulating artificial intelligence is 
 
 dialogue. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OMAR AL OLAMA, AI MINISTER, UAE:  We need to ensure that we have an open dialogue with our adversaries (ph), specifically on the development of 
 
 technology. The use, there are certain uses that everyone agrees about, atomist (ph) weapons, for, example that can take the life of a human being 
 
 are negative. 
 
And that is true. We speak to a Chinese official or (INAUDIBLE) official and making sure (ph) regardless of the nationality, everyone agrees this is 
 
 something that is bad. I think we need to set these guidelines and these guiderails, across the different technologies, as well as ensure that bad 
 
 actors that do not have a state, that don't have any affiliations  or any group of people --
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
OLAMA:  -- that are people trying to create harm do not (INAUDIBLE) and take us by surprise. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  That's the AI minister in the UAE. 
 
A decade of soaring to the top, this week marks the 10th anniversary of the iconic South Korean pop band BTS. And though the group is on a temporary 
 
 break right now, weeklong celebrations have kicked off in the capital, Seoul. 
 
The landmark Namsan Tower lit up in purple, the band's signature color. Many of their global fans have also descended on the city to celebrate. 
 
CONNECT THE WORLD continues after this short break. Stay with us. 
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END