Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Israel-Hamas Hostage Deal Could Come As Soon As Today; WHO Warns Of Epidemic Risks In Gaza; Trauma Survivors Watch Developments In Gaza; Al- Shifa Babies Receiving Treatment In Egypt; Houthi Rebels Hijack Cargo Ship Near Yemen; Mobsters Sentenced In Historic Italian Mafia Trial; Fate Of Ousted OpenAI CEO Remains Uncertain. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired November 21, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:04]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over): This is CNN breaking news.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST (voice-over): Welcome to the second hour of CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Julia Chatterley. It is 10:00 am 
 
 here in New York, it is 5:00 pm in Gaza. 
 
This hour, we are awaiting a potential breakthrough in bringing more hostages home from Gaza. The office of Benjamin Netanyahu says that the 
 
 Israeli war cabinet will meet next hour followed by other high-level meetings, quote, "in light of the developments on the issue of freeing the 
 
 hostages." 
 
Netanyahu said, quote,  they are "making progress" on releasing 50 women and children, from Gaza; Israel, freeing a significant number of 
 
 Palestinian prisoners, too. Also a pause in the fighting, badly needed by civilians in Gaza.
 
The United Nations secretary-general, describing the mounting civilian deaths as, quote, "unparalleled and unprecedented." The WHO says 28 of the 
 
 33 premature babies that were in the Al-Shifa Hospital have been evacuated into Egypt.
 
Three were sent home to their families and two sadly died over the weekend. 
 
Let's get the latest from the region. Oren Liebermann joins us live from Tel Aviv. 
 
Oren, all morning and in the past few hours, there has been increasing cautious optimism about the hope of a breakthrough. We will couch this very 
 
 carefully because we have had optimism for many days. 
 
I was talking with Becky about this last hour. We are seeing the Israelis scheduling government minister meetings, a war cabinet, a security cabinet 
 
 to discuss this deal. It gives us a greater degree of hope perhaps than ever before. 
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: I would go as far, Julia, as to say a very great degree of hope. This is the first public acknowledgment 
 
 that we have seen from the Israelis.
 
And it is done in a very definitive way. One hour from now, the war cabinet will meet to discuss the issue of freeing the hostages. Shortly thereafter, 
 
 the security cabinet will clarify the distinction. The war cabinet is a very small group. 
 
The security cabinet is a broader group of ministers. And then the full cabinet, that would be the process needed to approve or release an exchange 
 
 of Palestinian prisoners. That is all set to happen from 6:00 pm, one hour from now, to 7:00 to 8:00 pm. 
 
Then there is a 24-hour period when anyone to appeal to stop this process. But as you can see, the process is moving forward. It is about to begin 
 
 with the war cabinet meeting. 
 
We have learned from multiple officials from the groups involved in this negotiations, the U.S., the Qataris the Israelis, Hamas even stating openly 
 
 that a deal is perhaps very much imminent. 
 
Benjamin Netanyahu said earlier today, he hopes there will be good news soon on this. In terms of the broader outlook, it would involve 50 
 
 hostages, women and children, being freed in exchange for a four- or five- day pause in the fighting. 
 
If that works out, in addition to that, I should say, there will be 150 Palestinian women and children held and Israeli prisoners released. You can 
 
 see the 3:1 ratio, three Palestinian prisoners for every one Israeli prisoner.
 
If that works out, then perhaps a larger group released, another 50 hostages held in Gaza released. Hamas says they need more time to round up 
 
 hostages they do not hold so they can bring those together. 
 
In terms of who exactly is released, that part is much less clear right now. Whether it is full families, different groups, different 
 
 nationalities, for example, we know there are Nepali and Thai citizens held, that has yet to come into focus.
 
But any progress is critical and, we expect after the votes, we will hear from Benjamin Netanyahu in some fashion as to where this all stands and if 
 
 a deal is moving forward and what the timeline looks like from here. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Assuming everything goes to plan, I wonder when we might get some sense of who the 50 are. There will be a release of the names of the 
 
 Palestinians being released, too. 
 
But any sense of timing on when we will know who from Gaza may be released?
 
LIEBERMANN: We do not know that yet. 
 
Does this move forward as that 24-hour appeal window is open? 
 
Or does the war cabinet, the government and Benjamin Netanyahu try to ram this through and dare anyone to challenge him?
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
LIEBERMANN: We are waiting for any legal challenges to play out down the road as the hostage release plays out over the course of several days. It 
 
 is possible they just simply try to push it through. 
 
In terms of the names, we have been in touch with several family members of hostages being held in Gaza. And they have had no heads-up at this point. 
 
 We do understand that the names and the people to be released are not of the age where they might be serving. They are not soldiers that were taken 
 
 hostage. 
 
That includes both men and women. So that gives you an idea that we are very likely looking at the young and the elderly. But that is not 
 
 definitive, in terms of Palestinian prisoners. 
 
So even as we are seeing this optimism and a potential announcement sometime in the next few hours, there are critical details that we are 
 
 waiting to find out. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Oren Liebermann, for now, thank you. 
 
Now the wait for a deal to bring these hostages home, we are hearing from one family member about the situation. Udi Goren was part a group that met 
 
 with prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday. 
 
He was quoted, "What we've heard is that taking down Hamas and bringing the hostages home are equally important. This is incredibly disappointing 
 
 because we know that taking down Hamas, we keep hearing from them that it is going to take months or years and it is going to take a long time." 
 
Udi Goren joins us now from Israel. 
 
Good to have you on the show. We will talk about your frustration here, I think in your words. I want to get your take on what we are hearing today. 
 
 We have heard optimism in the past. 
 
But the potential for some type of deal, to release at least 50 hostages today, your response?
 
UDI GOREN, HAMAS HOSTAGE'S COUSIN: I think if that comes through, it will be an unbelievable ray of sunshine after 45 days of miserable darkness. 
 
 There are 50 or 60 or 70, we do not know, families, who are going to get their lives back. 
 
And, you know, it cannot be described in words. These people, they do not eat, sleep, they do not really live for the past 45 days, they can go back 
 
 to existence. 
 
It does not really matter if my relative is there or not -- I mean, of course, it matters but in the overall efforts, even if my relative is not 
 
 back this time around, it promotes the possibility of them coming back. So this deal is something to be celebrated, no matter what. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Women and children will be the priority. We want to be very careful about mentioning your relative. But your relative is an adult. I 
 
 guess the concern is that he or she will have to remain in Gaza at this stage. 
 
Does it, though, raise your hopes for the prospect of them being released, too?
 
GOREN: Absolutely. Especially, you know, first and foremost other people's misery does not reduce any of mine. It is great when we can get anyone 
 
 back, especially the most vulnerable. 
 
But aside from that, it was made very clear to us that a deal that will bring everybody home at once is not an option; it has been tried and it is 
 
 just not on the table. There has not been any opportunity to promote this kind of deal. 
 
In that regard then, this is step one. And then we must immediately move to step two or three and get everybody back. But any step is a step further in 
 
 achieving the goal of bringing them home. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, even if it is not one of your family members, you still want them released if a full deal cannot be agreed upon. 
 
Let's talk about yesterday, you were deeply frustrated. I mentioned that in the introduction to this interview. You were concerned that you are not 
 
 hearing any information from the Israeli government about the situation, about the dealmaking. 
 
But I think this is crucial. Destroying Hamas and that the violence and the war had equal priority to rescuing hostages. 
 
Do you still feel that way, in light of, fingers crossed, what we hope will be announced in the coming days, if not today, for releasing hostages? 
 
Do you think the government has their priorities straight?
 
GOREN: Yes, if the deal comes through, then I think finally we are at a point --
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
GOREN: -- where they are showing, for what they have been telling us, because, you know, it has been 45 days. And at the end of the day, they 
 
 cannot give us any information. 
 
And I understand, I am not expecting them to reveal any classified information that we do not get from the news anyway. so in that regard, I 
 
 did not expect it. 
 
But that only leaves me judging their actions according to what they do or do not achieve. If this deal comes through, we will finally have proof that 
 
 they are doing the right thing, not just talking about the right thing. 
 
CHATTERLEY: I think it is difficult because you want as much information as  you can get but the danger is, perhaps, it impacts the negotiations but 
 
 does not lessen the anxiety or the awful horror and sadness that your family is going through as you wait for more news. 
 
Would you like to see a pause in the fighting until all hostages are released, if that is to be part of the negotiation here?
 
In any way, is there a concern about the release of Palestinians in order to get your family members and others back home?
 
GOREN: First of all, I will answer your second question first. I think Israel must do anything to bring the hostages back, anything, because we 
 
 are not Hamas. We are a sovereign democracy, a Western democracy that values human lives. 
 
And we have to show, we have to prove that this is not only what we say we believe in but this is how we act. This is a principle, this is a matter of 
 
 our core values as a country. So absolutely, yes, Israel must do anything. 
 
If that involves a cease-fire, of course, yes. This war with Hamas or in general, this situation and the long-term effects of how Israel and Gaza, 
 
 Gazan civilians, Hamas, whoever controls this part of the land, can coexist. 
 
And we would have to coexist because nobody is going anywhere. This is something that needs to be thought through long-term. This will take time. 
 
 Bringing back the hostages alive cannot take that time. We don't have it.
 
People are chronically ill and some of them are wounded. Some of them are elderly, not to mention the children, who are very vulnerable. So we do not 
 
 have that time, that luxury of waiting. Bringing them back must be the top priority at any cost; of course, at a cost that does not risk Israel 
 
 proper. 
 
Sadly, I do not have this information, what does or does not risk Israel. All I can say is that it's my firm belief, my core value that this must be 
 
 the priority. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, eloquently put. We keep our fingers crossed for you and your family and the soon release of your loved one. Udi Goren, thank you. 
 
As we mentioned, the Israel government will be holding a series of meetings over the coming hours. This will be regarding a deal to release 50 hostages 
 
 held by Hamas. The deal could be released as early as today. 
 
These talks are being mediated by Qatar. And Becky Anderson is in Doha tonight. 
 
I assume you were listening to that conversation. And that was a hostage member's family member. And, he was saying, look, he was concerned 
 
 yesterday that the government was not getting its priorities straight, that it was prioritizing tackling Hamas over getting the hostages back. 
 
But if this deal comes through, it will show him that the government is now prioritizing the right thing -- if.
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST: Exactly. If this deal comes through, this will be the biggest diplomatic result since October 7th. Let me tell you, these 
 
 mediation talks in Doha, they are mediation talks between Israel and Hamas, supported by the U.S.
 
They've been going on for weeks now, to get an agreement on a truce in the Gaza Strip. A call to that agreement would be, as we understand from 
 
 multiple sources, the release of 50 civilian hostages. 
 
Of the 240 hostages, as we understand, are being held in Gaza at present, not only by Hamas but by other groups as well. So again, if this 
 
 announcement does come through tonight -- and a diplomatic source very close to these talks tells me that Qatar is --
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
ANDERSON: -- hoping there will be an answer tonight. And that would align, we can report now, with the Israeli war cabinet and discussing this deal 
 
 that is currently on this table. 
 
And if there is an agreement there, then announcement can be made, as far as we can tell. So if that happens, you will see, as I said, for the first 
 
 time, a real diplomatic breakthrough for the first time since October 7th. 
 
We have seen the release of four hostages to date, two groups of two; an American and her daughter and then two elderly Israeli women. We understand 
 
 this next deal will include women and children and foreigners. That will be in exchange for Palestinian women and teenagers being held in Israeli 
 
 prisons. 
 
And multiple sources have told CNN that the exchange will be on a 3:1 basis. For every hostage that is released from Gaza, there will be three 
 
 Palestinians released from Israeli jails. 
 
The release period, after the announcement, we understand, will be during a four-day pause or truce in the fighting. As we understand it, that means 
 
 that the Israelis would cease their ground operations and what they are doing in the air for periods of time; particularly, flying surveillance 
 
 drones. 
 
As far as multiple sources have told us, this has been a real issue of contention. Hamas wanted to see those drones grounded. And the Israelis, 
 
 not agreeing to that but saying it would be up to six hours per day, over the next four-day period that those surveillance drones are taken out of 
 
 the air. 
 
Why?
 
Hamas, as we understand, needs to get around or needs to be able to get the IDs of all hostages, the names and the IDs of all hostages being held by 
 
 other groups and indeed by other individuals in Gaza. 
 
Remember, when that border was broken, back on October 7th, it was not just Hamas who rushed it. There were other people involved with other groups in 
 
 Gaza and just individuals, who were swept up in what was this atrocious massacre, they swept up individuals and took them back to Gaza. 
 
This is a start. Israel has said for weeks now, that there will be no cease-fire, there will be no end to hostilities until all hostages are 
 
 released. Hamas has said no release of all hostages until there is a cease- fire. We are not at that point, let us be absolutely clear about that. 
 
The point that we are at is the release of some of the civilian hostages at this point. There appears to be no agreement at present as to the release 
 
 of soldiers being held in Gaza or individuals of sort of serving age. 
 
That is an important distinction to make. But in all of this, a big diplomatic breakthrough if it happens, a breakthrough for the families of 
 
 some 50 hostages -- women, children and some foreigners, who have been going through absolute torture with their family members being held, as you 
 
 have heard, in Gaza. 
 
It is the beginning, negotiators hope, of a period of pauses in which others will be released. Again, no deal is a done deal until it is 
 
 announced. Qatar hoping, according to diplomatic sources, that the deal will be announced in the coming hours, i.e. today, tonight Doha time. 
 
CHATTERLEY: In the meantime, we will continue praying for the success of their release. Becky Anderson in Doha for now, thank you.
 
Despite word of movement on those hostage negotiations, Gaza's humanitarian crisis is still escalating and the airstrikes are continuing. The World 
 
 Health Organization is now warning of the risk of an epidemic in the besieged enclave. 
 
It says large numbers are packed into U.N. schools and other centers, seeking rescue. Now add to that recent heavy rains and falling temperatures 
 
 and the WHO says that children could be in danger of getting pneumonia. Nada Bashir joins us from Jerusalem. 
 
Illness, epidemic, lack of nutrition and access to food and now bad weather to boot. It is tough to find words to explain the level of crisis they are 
 
 in now. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, Julia. This is all being compounded by the crisis facing hospitals across Gaza. The vast majority in 
 
 operation in the northern area of the Gaza Strip.
 
Thousands of patients unable to receive care because of the deteriorating humanitarian situation. There are continued calls for civilians to move 
 
 southward. But the situation is dire and it is deteriorating and we are seeing airstrikes. 
 
And there is a huge amount of concern regarding the potential for an epidemic. We need to remind our viewers, the U.N. is saying some 1.7 
 
 million in Gaza displaced. 
 
And as the weather begins to worsen, there are real fears that without these humanitarian pauses, long enough for essential aid to get into the 
 
 Gaza Strip, more and more people are going to die as a result of the deteriorating situation. Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR (voice-over): Darkness and destruction inside northern Gaza's Indonesian hospital. Twelve killed here overnight including patients and a 
 
 member of medical staff when Israeli tank fire hit the hospital, according to health authorities in the Hamas-run strip.
 
The Israeli military says they were responding to gunfire from inside, targeting their troops. But the civilian toll has been condemned by the 
 
 U.N.'s World Health Organization chief, describing the attack as appalling.
 
For civilians in central Gaza, Monday morning brought with it more devastation. Local residents say this building was struck overnight, 
 
 blaming Israel's ongoing aerial bombardment of the region. Locals here say more than a dozen were killed, now buried beneath the rubble.
 
CNN has reached out to the Israeli military for comment and allegations of an overnight airstrike on the neighborhood. Amid the rubble, bodies are 
 
 pulled out one by one carefully wrapped in blankets.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): The building collapsed on top of 30 people. Many were killed and there are still people buried under the rubble 
 
 right now.
 
BASHIR (voice-over): The Israeli military says it is targeting Hamas but with each passing day, more civilians are killed.
 
Among the victims on Monday, a young girl, carried away by a neighbor, killed alongside her father, a doctor at the nearby Al Aqsa Martyrs' 
 
 Hospital.
 
This is not a war anymore. This is genocide, he says.
 
This scene now all too familiar, even for the young. Many here are from northern Gaza, taking shelter in this embattled town, hoping to move 
 
 southwards.
 
The U.N. says hundreds of thousands have already fled northern Gaza. Many seen here over the weekend waving makeshift white flags, the injured 
 
 chaining behind. It is a long and difficult journey. Many are exhausted and distraught.
 
MOHAMED AL-SHAHID, DISPLACED JABALYA RESIDENT: We will die if we stay. One minute we will die. Many rockets fall on our heads.
 
BASHIR (voice-over): Mohamed says his daughter was injured following an airstrike on a school they were sheltering in the northern city of Jabalia. 
 
 Now they are hoping they will find some semblance of peace in the south. 
 
But even here, in the very place Israel is telling civilians to evacuate to, there is no escape. And as the weather begins to turn, the situation is 
 
 growing more dire with each passing day. This family from Jabalia now sheltering in the southern city of Khan Younis, making do with what little 
 
 they have left.
 
RANDA HAMUD, DISPLACED JABALYA RESIDENT (through translator): Yesterday was very difficult. Our tents flew away, the rain came down on us, we were 
 
 drenched. We just want an end to the war.
 
BASHIR (voice-over): But as the war threatens to intensify in southern Gaza and calls for a humanitarian ceasefire continue to go unheeded, there is 
 
 little hope remaining for the people of Gaza.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR: Yesterday, we did hear from the U.N.'s reflect agency, Palestinian refugees, saying they need more fuel to get into the Gaza Strip to keep 
 
 relief operations going, also to support water and sewage systems. There is desperate need for relief for the hospitals across the Gaza Strip. 
 
As you know, there have been attempts to evacuate some patients, including premature babies, were evacuated to Egypt. But of course, there are still 
 
 hundreds and hundreds of patients inside hospitals --
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
BASHIR: -- surrounded by continued bombardment who are in desperate need of medical care. 
 
Specialist medical evacuations, as situations continue to deteriorate. We are hearing calls from the U.N.'s humanitarian office to allow relief teams 
 
 to get into the Gaza Strip safely, in order to provide that relief. 
 
And that call is only expected to grow, as the situation in southern Gaza continues to deteriorate. Millions are still moving southward, attempting 
 
 to find shelter. But Israel's ground incursion could deepen across southern Gaza, raising concerns over the safety of civilians. 
 
The Israeli military says it is targeting Hamas, they say they are focused on Hamas positions across the Gaza Strip, but we are seeing civilian deaths 
 
 mounting with each passing day. And there is rising concern for the situation. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Nada Bashir, thank you. 
 
We have a development concerning the Palestinian poet detained by Israeli forces. The IDF says that Mosab Abu Toha has been released after 
 
 questioning. In a statement, the IDF said that, during operations in Gaza, there was, quote, "intelligence" regarding a number of interactions between 
 
 several civilians and terror organizations inside the Gaza Strip. 
 
The civilians among them, Mosab Abu Toha, were taken in for questioning. After the questioning, he was released. He has been contributing to "The 
 
 New Yorker" with reflections on his life inside Gaza. Just to reiterate, he has now been released, according to the IDF. 
 
News from Gaza hitting close to home for those living in a Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon. Ben Wedeman will joins us live to discuss, next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
Hundreds of miles from Gaza, there is a Palestinian refugee camp in Beirut. Senior correspondent Ben Wedeman spoke with residents there, many of whom 
 
 are survivors of previous wars. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The old in the Shatila Palestinian refugee camp have seen it all. For the young, it is 
 
 just the beginning of a life crammed together with more than 14,000 people into a quarter-mile square. 
 
WEDEMAN: This Palestinian refugee camp in Beirut is hundreds of miles from Gaza. But for the many people here who have lived through previous wars, 
 
 the war in Gaza seems very close. 
 
WEDEMAN (voice-over): This 77-year old, Nadra Joha (ph), came here as a baby --
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
WEDEMAN (voice-over): -- from her home in what was then Palestine. She has seen from near and far war after war but is still shocked by the images 
 
 from Gaza. 
 
"How do they have the heart to do this to children?" she asks?
 
(INAUDIBLE) the pain she feels for all the innocents. 
 
"When I see Israeli children, I think they feel the same way we do when we lose our children," says Nadra (ph). 
 
"In the end, a child is a child, the mother of a child is a mother, whether she is Israeli or Palestinian." 
 
The scars of the past are plain to see. In September 1982, the Israeli military stood by as their Lebanese Christian allies slaughtered over 1,000 
 
 Palestinian and Lebanese civilians, here and in the neighboring Sabra (ph) district. Fading posters plaster the walls with the faces of heroes past, 
 
 who promised much but delivered little to the people here. 
 
Camp residents trace their roots back to Haifa, Jaffa, (INAUDIBLE). Banded up here after what they call the nakba, the catastrophe, where more than 
 
 700,000 Palestinians fled or were driven from their homes when Israel was established. 
 
The scenes from Gaza, painfully reminiscent of the past, a past, storekeeper Mohamed Afifi fears, is repeating itself. 
 
"Doesn't anyone have an iota of humanity?" he asks
 
"Even Iraq, faced with the news from Gaza, would go soft. But the world, confronted with cascades of blood, closes its eyes." 
 
The eyes here are open but they can only watch from afar. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: That was Ben Wedeman there.
 
Now as you have been hearing for the last 1.5 hours, it is not a done deal. But there are signs that an agreement release to release some of those 
 
 hostages from Hamas could be imminent. We will have a report from the White House, next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)	
 <br>[10:35:20]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to CONNECT THE WORLD, with me, Julia Chatterley. 
 
The Israeli war cabinet meets the next hour amid word of a possible deal to free 50 civilian hostages held by Hamas. Israel and Hamas both sound upbeat 
 
 about the agreement, which would also involve a pause in the fighting. 
 
It's believed Hamas took over 200 hostages when it attacked Israel on October 7. Meanwhile, 28 premature babies from the Al-Shifa hospital in 
 
 Gaza are being treated at two hospitals in Egypt. Authorities have still not tracked down most of their parents. 
 
We want to turn to that hostage deal. Sources are telling us that it could be announced as early as today. Let's get more now from MJ Lee at the White 
 
 House. 
 
We have had optimistic moments before but this does feel different this time. There are plenty of elements and contours to this potential deal. 
 
What are we hearing from the U.S. side about what this may look like and when?
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: I think you are absolutely right that it does feel different this time. Sources are telling CNN that 
 
 Israel, Hamas and the U.S. are on the cusp of reaching a deal. 
 
And that deal could be reached as early as today. Part of the deal, what we would see happen, it would be 50 hostages, women and children, released in 
 
 exchange for four to five days' pause in fighting. 
 
In addition, 150 Palestinian prisoners would be released by Israel. And there would be a cease in the flying of Israeli surveillance drones for at 
 
 least six hours per day. The hostages, the 50 that we are talking about right now, are of various nationalities, we are told. 
 
U.S. officials are hoping that one of those hostages released will be 3- year-old Abigail Idan (ph). This, of course, is the 3-year-old American toddler, the youngest American hostage known. Her parents were killed by 
 
 Hamas. 
 
And there is a little bit of hope, after President Biden himself talked about this toddler, that she may again be part of the initial 50 released. 
 
Beyond those initial 50, we are told Hamas would use the time during the pause to gather up additional hostages. If they are successful, the pause 
 
 could be extended for additional days. 
 
Of course, we have been reporting over the last few weeks Hamas' demand for additional aid coming into Gaza. That has focused on fuel. Everyone knows 
 
 it is so critical to Hamas' military operations, like ventilating underground tunnels. So that has been a very contentious part of the 
 
 negotiations. 
 
We do not know where things will end up on that point. But U.S. officials have been  clear that they, too, are pushing for as much humanitarian aid 
 
 to get into Gaza as possible. 
 
Again, what we expect is that a deal could be announced as early as today. But it is worth emphasizing, over and over, as we talk about the 
 
 possibility of the deal, just a caveat, at any moment, the deal could fall through. A deal is not a deal until it is formally announced and the 
 
 hostages are physically out of Gaza. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. Until the hostages are safe, we do not assume anything. Thank you. 
 
That is MJ Lee in Washington. 
 
An update now on the 28 babies that arrived in Egypt yesterday. Eleni Giokos has been following the story from Cairo, Egypt. 
 
First and foremost, what is the latest on how these little babies are doing?
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN ANCHOR: What we heard today, from the Egyptian health ministry, is that they were basically split into two groups. 
 
The first was 16 babies. And then there was a second group at the new administration capital, they tell us there are 12 babies in very critical 
 
 condition when they arrived in Egypt. I have a list of the diagnoses and a list --
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
GIOKOS: -- not of their names but of their parents' names. The document says that all of them have very low blood oxygen concentration. We know 
 
 there was not any oxygen supply at the Al-Shifa Hospital. They were running out of key medical supplies, which is why we saw five babies lose their 
 
 lives. 
 
A few of them, very low birth weight;  other injuries as well like an eye injury. It is very disturbing to read about this, because you get the sense 
 
 of the vulnerability of these patients and they were suffering as they were awaiting the help that they need. 
 
And in terms of who these children are and where their parents are, we know that only four mothers came across the border yesterday with the 28 babies. 
 
 What we are hearing from the Egyptian side is that they do not know anything about their parents right now. 
 
They do not know if they are alive. They do not know about the whereabouts even of extended family. But they are fearing the worst. Some of these 
 
 babies were found under rubble. 
 
Frankly, there are so many stories attached to this. For the Egyptians, the priority is to stabilize these babies. We saw some of the images after they 
 
 were taken to the border, taken into Egyptian hospitals, we have seen some of the interventions from the Egyptian side. 
 
And frankly, they could have been receiving this assistance for over a week now. Last week, when we spoke to the Egyptian health minister, he was 
 
 expecting 36 neonatal babies. They were standing at the border with ambulances and ventilators and other equipment. And many doctors were ready 
 
 to assist. 
 
But the evacuation out of Al-Shifa was far too dangerous. The IDF raid last week made it far too dangerous to create that corridor. There was also a 
 
 lack of communication with Al-Shifa, after a blackout in coms. So no one was communicating from the hospital. 
 
We saw the images of how the babies were shifted from the neonatal ward in Al-Shifa, taken by hand and laid on beds without ventilators. And you got a 
 
 sense of just how dangerous that was. 
 
The U.N. stepping in, helping to evacuate those babies to Rafah. They were in too much of a critical condition to be moved on Sunday. Once they were 
 
 stabilized, we saw them being moved across the border. 
 
It was a race against time; that was really pointed out by the Egyptians. Every single moment that these babies weren't in proper incubators, it was 
 
 a risk. That's why some of the babies did not make it through. 
 
Egypt now feels very confident, if they can get them stabilized, the next point would be to try to find the parents of these babies. There is just 
 
 very little information. But we are hearing more and more they are starting to show signs of recovery. But it is a long road ahead, Julia. 
 
CHATTERLEY: As you have been talking, we have been watching the video we are sharing with viewers and it is breathtaking to see these babies. To 
 
 your point, as well, about the mothers, I think it struck everybody there were only four mothers who went. I guess the hope is that in many cases the 
 
 priority was for the child and not identifying who the family is. 
 
And we pray that it is not going to be the worst case, as you mentioned. Eleni Giokos, thank you. Thank you for that. 
 
GIOKOS: We are wishing for the best, Julia. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Absolutely, absolutely.
 
We will be back in just a few moments' time. Stay with CNN.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:46:02]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
Japan is condemning the hijacking of a cargo ship by Houthi rebels off the coast of Yemen. The ship is leased by a Japanese company but the Israeli 
 
 media outlets report an Israeli businessman is part owner of the British company that owns the ship. 
 
Japan is seeking help to secure the release of the vessel and its 25 crew members. Scott McLean has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is video showing a helicopter belonging to Houthi rebels, approaching a cargo ship in the Red 
 
 Sea. Yemeni and Palestinian flags front and center. 
 
After the aircraft lands on top of the massive vessel, gunmen, dressed in black with beige flak jackets, stand out and find cover, as the helicopter 
 
 takes off. It may look like a high-speed training exercise. 
 
But when the gunmen entered the bridge of the ship, it becomes all too real, as terrified crewmembers begin to surrender. 
 
Later inside the ship, a gunman waving a pistol yells, "Allahu Akbar, death to the Jews, death to Israel." 
 
The Houthis are an Iranian backed Shia political and military group fighting a civil war in Yemen, against forces backed by Saudi Arabia. But 
 
 lately, fighting has slowed to a simmer. 
 
Since the war began in Gaza, the group has repeatedly launched missiles toward Israel. All have been intercepted. The video was shot and released 
 
 by the Houthi militants themselves, clearly intending to send a message to any ships linked to Israel. 
 
YAHYA SAREA, HOUTHI MILITARY SPOKESPERSON (through translator): They will become legitimate targets for the armed forces and urge all countries whose 
 
 nationals operate in the Red Sea to refrain from any work or activity with Israeli ships or ships owned by Israelis. 
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): Multiple Israeli media outlets report that one of Israel's richest people, the billionaire businessman Rami Ungar, is a part 
 
 owner of the British company that owns the ship. Ungar did not respond to a request for comment from CNN. 
 
The ship had been leased by a Japanese firm and the Israeli prime minister's office says none of the crew are Israeli. None of this should 
 
 have been a surprise, after the Houthis telegraphed their plan a week ago. 
 
ABDUL MALIK AL-HOUTHI, HOUTHI LEADER (through translator): Our eyes are open for constant monitoring, searching for any Israeli ship. We will 
 
 search until we identify those ships and we will not hesitate to target them. 
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): Hamas has welcomed the seizure of the ship, while Iran denies it has anything to do with it. The U.S. calls it a violation of 
 
 international law. 
 
JAKE SULLIVAN(?), U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: We demand the immediate release of the ship and its crew.
 
The ship last left port in Turkiye en route to India. There is no word on the safety of the crew. The Houthis have only promised they will be treated 
 
 according to the values of Islam -- Scott McLean, CNN, Istanbul. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
CHATTERLEY (voice-over): Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories on our radar. 
 
In India, efforts are underway to rescue 41 construction workers trapped under a collapsed tunnel for over a week. Officials say a second pipeline 
 
 has been installed to provide much-needed food and included a hot mean and medicines for the workers. 
 
They say that the new pipe for workers to send larger-sized materials, acting as a secondary lifeline. 
 
North Korea claims it's just launched a military spy satellite into orbit. This would mark Pyongyang's third attempt to put a satellite into space 
 
 after two failed launches earlier this year. The U.S. says, quote, these launches are "a brazen violation of multiple U.N. Security Council 
 
 resolutions," and raise tensions in the region and beyond. 
 
One of the largest mafia trials in Italian history has come to an end with dramatic results. A court has sentenced 207 mobsters to a total of 2,200 
 
 years in prison. They were all affiliated with the notorious Ndrangheta crime syndicate. 
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Coming up, the chatbot plot thickens. The latest shockwaves from the upheaval, we will call it that, at OpenAI. That is next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back. 
 
Global investors continue to follow the ongoing drama at the artificial intelligence firm, OpenAI. Talks to get CEO Sam Altman rehired, after his 
 
 sudden ouster, are continuing. A letter was sent to the company board by the employees, threatening to resign unless Sam Altman is brought back. 
 
Anna Stewart joins us.
 
Let's start with a bet on the probability that OpenAI remains OpenAI, just with a different board. I think we would be on the same side of that bet. 
 
 The man of the moment, not the CEO, is the CEO of Microsoft, Satya Nadella. 
 
What does he have to say about the situation?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: On his comments, there were interviews about his position. Microsoft, of course, being the biggest backer of 
 
 OpenAI and they are offering refuge to Sam Altman and the other co-founder, fired at the end of last week, and any employee he wants to move. 
 
They are now totaling over 700, according to the open letter. Some interesting additional information really as to how this unfolded. We do 
 
 have confirmation from Nadella that they had no communication from OpenAI  about Sam Altman being fired. 
 
They would have liked some communication, which is why they want to know if that is going to be a seat on the board. That is to be discussed. They said 
 
 they can work with, quote, "whoever is left at OpenAI at this stage." 
 
And there may not be many people in it, depending on what happens over the next few days, I suppose. And finally, they will work with Sam Altman, 
 
 regardless of whether that be in-house at Microsoft or whether Sam Altman is back at OpenAI. 
 
CHATTERLEY: There are like only 10 employees who want to remain at OpenAI. They maybe did not get around to sending an email yet, including the board 
 
 member who wanted to oust him a few days ago and then decided better of it. 
 
Funny, that, after all of this brouhaha. And the bigger point is about the direction of the future of AI, whether or not OpenAI would remain with 
 
 Microsoft or whether, it remains as a private company or whether it can push, progress and accelerate the development of AI. 
 
If you look at regulators around the world, those parties are also concerned that things are moving too far too fast. 
 
STEWART: We could see a massive reshaping of the AI landscape. Companies that control this space, Google's DeepMind, one is OpenAI, perhaps one of 
 
 them also will now be Microsoft, separate to OpenAI.
 
So this will be interesting. It will change the debate. It will possibly mean more governance for OpenAI employees if they move. And I think that it 
 
 will have a big bearing on safety. Now Satya Nadella says that Sam Altman is very keen on safety. 
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
STEWART: Safety is, of course, important for many of the engineers, entrepreneurs and the tech leaders in this space. 
 
What would be left of OpenAI, if everyone left?
 
As you say, there are a handful of employees. I think one of the messages on X that was going viral from the OpenAI employees and executives, was 
 
 that OpenAI is nothing without its people. And I think that is really showing to be true at the moment. 
 
The value is not just for I.P; it is in the brains of all those engineers that have created OpenAI. 
 
CHATTERLEY: That is such a great point. If there is one thing that everyone will learn from this, the founders especially, I am talking about, is be 
 
 careful about your board and the powers that the board have. 
 
When you're a founder and so intrinsic to the company, you have to perhaps decide, when you create a board like this, you maintain fundamental 
 
 control. That might be a bad thing later on. But it could have prevented this drama. 
 
STEWART: And the board has to evolve with the company. And these companies are changing so fast. 
 
CHATTERLEY: Well done, Anna, I was about to say, we have run out of time. But you wrapped it up. Thank you, your wisdom --
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
CHATTERLEY: We have been known, we have been known to push it. 
 
That is it for CONNECT THE WORLD. Thanks to Anna. Stay with CNN. "STATE OF THE RACE WITH KASIE HUNT" is up next.
 
END