Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Palestinian's Recount Alleged Abuse, Torture by Israeli Forces; Netanyahu Has Not Fully Supported Two-State Solution; G7 Countries to Meet, Israel-Hamas War on Agenda; More Jews in the U.S. Buying Guns, Getting Firearms Training. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired November 07, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Bianca Nobilo. 
 
FOSTER: And I'm Max Foster. Palestinian officials say more than 60 percent of Gaza's hospitals and medical centers are out of service right now. That's either because of fuel and other supply shortages or because of damage from air strikes. The hospitals are still open -- well, the ones that are still open -- have partly turned into refugee center. 
 
NOBILO: The Palestinian Red Crescent Society says 14,000 displaced civilians are sheltering here -- what you're looking at the Al-Quds Hospital. The group warns at the hospital's fuel reserves, will run out in the next 48 hours, meaning that incubators and other life saving equipment will no longer work. 
 
FOSTER: Hundreds of Palestinian workers who have been detained by the Israel Defence Forces after the October 7th attacks are now recounting stories of alleged abuse and torture at the hands of the IDF. 
 
NOBILO: CNN's Nada Bashir has our report and a warning to you that some of the images that you're about to see are disturbing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): Bound, blindfolded, some even stripped. In this video, the jeers of Israeli soldiers, abusing and mocking Palestinian workers from Gaza, detained in Israel just days after the beginning of the war.
 
At the Kerem Shalom Crossing, men wait anxiously, hoping that their brothers, fathers, sons are among the Palestinian workers who have finally been returned to Gaza by the Israeli military.
 
Thousands of Gazan workers, like these men, had their permits to work in Israel revoked after the October 7th Hamas attack. But with no option to return home, many attempted to flee to the occupied West Bank, only to then be detained.
 
They tied our hands behind our backs, blindfolded us and led us onto a bus. I don't know where they took us. There were about 200 to 300 Gazan workers held there.
 
Some of the men here are visibly weak and with each crossing, more stories of abuse and even torture. One man telling CNN, he witnessed the use of electric shocks on detainees.
 
They put us in cages like dogs. They beat us and assaulted us. They didn't care if you were sick or injured. Some men even died on the way here because they were beaten and subjected to electric shocks.
 
Every day felt like death. They would give us a cucumber to share between six people and a small piece of bread.
 
An Israeli security official could not say whether electric shock tactics were used. But told CNN that the IDF is aware of several incidents of abuse against their Gaza workers and Palestinians in the occupied West Bank. Adding that these cases are being treated seriously with disciplinary actions said to have been taken against several soldiers identified in social media video.
 
But NGO workers at the Palestinian Prisoners Society say this is a systemic issue with few legal safeguards in place for Palestinians.
 
We've received horrific firsthand testimonies, Amani Sarahneh tells me. They didn't do anything wrong. They weren't charged with anything. But many of them were interrogated and systematically tortured. They were abused and brutally beaten. They faced all kinds of dehumanization and insults.
 
In the occupied West Bank, there are thousands of Gazan workers still stranded, desperate to be reunited with loved ones, praying every day for their safety.
 
Maher Al-Skeik was working in Israel with his son, Mafiq. But he hasn't seen or heard from him in almost a month.
 
I don't know where he is, whether he is in prison or dead. He is my son. My whole life. He came here to work, to be able to feed his children. He wasn't here to join in any fight. He wasn't here to cause trouble.
 
But just as there are fears for those still missing, at this center sheltering stranded Gazan workers, there was also indescribable anguish of the safety of family members back home in Gaza.
 
My family is now spread out all across Gaza. They've all had to leave the Jabalya Refugee Camp because of the airstrikes. When I am able to reach them, all I hear is misery. Every day is another catastrophe.
 
For weeks, many of these men have had no contact with their families. The Gaza they left behind now changed forever.
 
But for those now across the border, the relief of being freed from detention and reuniting with loved ones is clear. 
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
Though many have not returned with thousands still stuck in the occupied West Bank and others still missing.
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, in Ramallah.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Despite the growing humanitarian crisis in Gaza, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu continues to insist that there will be no ceasefire with Hamas until all of its hostages are released. And in a new interview, he also said that Israel will have what he calls overall security responsibility in Gaza after the war ends. 
 
Our colleague Rosemary Church spoke last hour with H.A. Hellier, a senior associate fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, about what things could look like going forwards. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
H.A. HELLYER, SR. ASSOCIATE FELLOW, CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE: The Prime Minister, of course, Benjamin Netanyahu has said many times on the record that he opposes a Palestinian state. He has many in his government that are openly opposed to a Palestinian state. And on the contrary, I've said on a number of occasions that they see the existence of Palestinians even in their own country, Palestinian-Israelis, Palestinians with Israeli citizenship, to be there by mistake because they weren't all pushed out in 1948 by Ben Gurion, the founder of the State of Israel.
 
Of course, East Jerusalem is annexed. I don't think they're interested in annexing Gaza, but it still remains an occupied territory. But one that they don't want to have to deal with. So your reporter did mention the idea of, you know, indefinite security control, indefinite security control, but without occupation.
 
Of course, that's completely contradictory. They will remain legally speaking in occupation of the territory. The question then becomes who's going to govern? Because they're destroying every semblance of government structure within the Strip right now. Health infrastructure, electricity infrastructure, educational infrastructure.
 
So I'm not sure what's going to be left to govern in that regard. There'll be people but they'll be people who have to, you know, spend years if not decades trying to recover, let alone the human cost, of course. 
 
And again, I'm not sure who's going to want to step in. It's going to be a mammoth effort and one that, again, the international can -- at least the regional part of the international community suspects greatly that part of the policy of the Netanyahu government right now is making so difficult for people in Gaza that they are forced to flee, go to Egypt, and then never be allowed to return by the Israeli forces.
 
And the Jordanians are worried about this, the Egyptians are worried about this, and it's been roundly condemned by regional governments. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Well, representatives from G7 member countries will be meeting in Tokyo today with a full plate of things to discuss and Israel's war on Hamas will no doubt be high on that agenda. 
 
NOBILO:  U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida just a short time ago. And he arrived in Tokyo after a whirlwind trip through the Middle East. Let's go live now to Beijing. And CNN's Marc Stewart for more on this. And Marc, where are the likely cracks in consensus among the G7 going to be when it comes to Israel and Hamas? 
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is very tricky, Bianca, because as you know there is a lot of different opinions within the G7 about how Israel's war with Hamas should be handled. Obviously, the United States is not in favor of a ceasefire. In fact, if we look at language most recently from the Secretary of State, he has been leaning toward more of a humanitarian pause. Yet other G7 nations, such as France, for example, have been very much in favor of a ceasefire. 
 
Well, we have the other remaining nations abstaining from taking a position with the United Nations. So a big part of the Secretary of State's job is to be a consensus builder. To create some common talking points, perhaps a common statement, a common approach toward this conflict that is taking place right now in the Middle East. 
 
The Secretary of State is arriving in Japan fresh off a trip from the Middle East. So he certainly is going to have some unique perspective. He has met with leaders in Israel, Iraq, Turkey, Jordan, as well as the West Bank. It will be interesting to see how those experiences are going to frame the conversation with these G7 leaders in Japan. 
 <br>[04:10:03]
 
This is not the first time the G7 has had to confront hardship, especially when it comes to war. We have seen the G7, really rally around Ukraine after the invasion from Russia. In fact, I'm thinking back to when I was in Hiroshima, Japan, this spring, we saw Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy as a guest, as a speaker to these G7 nations when they met in Japan, as a full body. 
 
It will be interesting to see, Max and Bianca, if the G7 is able to have this kind of unity when it comes to the current conflict in the Middle East, especially with each of these nations having such unique economic and political relationships with many of the players across the Middle Eastern landscape. 
 
NOBILO: Marc Stewart always great to chat to you. Thank you so much. 
 
And still to come with anti-Semitism on the rise, some Jews in the U.S. are living in such fear that they're now buying guns for their own safety. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: As the Israel Hamas war rages on and anti-Semitic threats surge in the U.S., more and more Jewish Americans are buying guns. 
 
NOBILO: Many are getting trained on how to use them, fearing for their own safety, CNN's David Culver reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is not Shani Suissa's usual L.A. hangout.
 
SHANNI SUISSA, ATTENDED FIREARMS TRAINING COURSE: Two months ago, I never would have really thought about owning a gun.
 
CULVER (voice-over): The 31-year-old podcaster organized this group firearms training.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go ahead and pick up your gun in your dominant hand.
 
CULVER (voice-over): Inviting others from her Southern California Jewish community including her childhood schoolmate, Dani. 
 
CULVER: Would your friends say, oh yeah, Dani's the type to always want to carry a gun and go shooting it?
 
DANI, ATTENDED FIREARMS TRAINING COURSE: No, definitely not my vibe, definitely not how I was raised.
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
CULVER (voice-over): This course, as these women see it, a last resort in self- defense.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't think I hit anything.
 
DANI: The reality is, people don't seem to want us around and it's hard.
 
CULVER: And do you feel that now more than ever?
 
DANI: Now more than ever. It's suffocating, actually.
 
CULVER (voice-over): Amidst the ongoing turmoil in Israel and Gaza, law enforcement here in the U.S. warning of increased anti-Semitic incidents targeting Jewish people, homes and businesses.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is a threat that is reaching in some ways sort of historic levels.
 
CULVER (voice-over): And gun shops, along with firearm instructors around the country, reporting a surge in interest, particularly from Jewish groups.
 
RABBI YOSSI EILFORT, MAGEN AM USA: When I'm doing our messaging, it is a message of light and peace.
 
CULVER (voice-over): Rabbi Yossi Eilfort believes that light and peace should be safeguarded through vigilance and preparation. It's why he started Magen Am, a private security firm tasked with keeping the local Jewish community safe.
 
CULVER: Did you ever think that you would end up also teaching people how to carry and fire a gun?
 
EILFORT: It's sad that it's necessary, but it definitely is. It's really important that we start educating our community.
 
CULVER (voice-over): We went to one of his weekday firearm classes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What can I do to protect my family? And what can I do to protect myself?
 
CULVER (voice-over): Roughly two dozen Jewish women here on this night.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I can tell you as a mom and as a teacher --
 
CULVER (voice-over): You can sense anxiety, fear, and unease.
 
EILFORT: We want people to live and be able to practice in peace. That's the whole goal. And so, if they want to pursue the ownership training with a firearm, and that's going to help them feel at peace, then let's do that.
 
CULVER (voice-over): California has some of the toughest gun laws in the U.S. And some here simply do not feel comfortable around guns.
 
EILFORT: It's not for everybody.
 
CULVER (voice-over): Back at the range.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I cannot believe I did that.
 
CULVER (voice-over): Shanni and Dani -- feeling more confident after their four-hour training.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No way!
 
CULVER (voice-over): And in case you didn't recognize their teacher, that's Rabbi Yossi.
 
EILFORT: Those were about three to four shots per second as I accelerated.
 
DANI: What we did here today will make me feel safer in the future as long as I keep practicing.
 
CULVER: Are you going to continue the instruction?
 
DANI: I will come back, a hundred percent.
 
SUISSA: We need to be prepared and the best defense is a good offense and I think that's really important to understand.
 
CULVER (voice-over): David Culver, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NOBILO: More than 500 protesters gathered at the Statue of Liberty Monday calling for a ceasefire in Gaza. 
 
Jewish Voice for Peace, which organized the demonstration, said in a statement from Ellis Island to Gaza. Never again means never again for anyone. 
 
NOBILO: And it said the iconic landmark has a long tradition as a protest site. And hold significance among American Jews whose families fled violence and pogroms. 
 
FOSTER: The Holocaust Museum LA honored actor and former California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger with the award of Courage. 
 
NOBILO: At a Gala on Monday, Schwarzenegger spoke about growing up around anti-Semitism. His message, to go through life with love and not hatred. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER, FORMER CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR: Because what is important right now is because there's all this chatter out there and all this stuff on internet, all this negativity and hatred that we have to speak out and confront that. The more we speak out about that issue, the better it is. Because we cannot let them get away with those lies and with this hatred. We get to talk to them and talk them down and let them know that the only way to go is to go through love with -- go through life with love and not with hatred. Hatred will never, ever win. Love in the end always wins. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Arnold Schwarzenegger there. We'll be back in a moment with the latest from Ukraine. 
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: The Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, says it's irresponsible to hold elections during wartime. His remarks came during his nightly address on Monday. 
 
NOBILO: Presidential elections in Ukraine typically take place every five years but have been suspended under martial law since the Russian invasion. Mr. Zelenskyy took office in May of 2019, meaning that he would be up for reelection this coming spring. But with the war ongoing, he insists it is not the right time for an election. 
 
FOSTER: Also in Ukraine, an aid to the country's top military commander was killed when a grenade inside a birthday gift exploded. The commander seen here, announced the death of his close friend on Monday. NOBILO: A Ukrainian news outlet posted these photos showing what
 
 appeared to be several grenades in the debris left behind by the explosion. Ukraine's Interior minister says the commander had received the birthday gift from a colleague. Police say the aid's 13-year-old son was seriously injured in the blast and the incident is now under criminal investigation. 
 
In Aurora, Colorado, police officer has -- a police officer has been acquitted on all charges in the 2019 death of Elijah McClain. 
 
FOSTER: Nathan Woodyard and other officers were responsible -- responded rather, to a call of a suspicious person wearing a ski mask and wrestled the unarmed Black 23-year-old to the ground. 
 
NOBILO: Woodyard placed him in a choke hold and medics injected McClain with a powerful sedative. He suffered a heart attack and died three days later. McClain's mother spoke out about the verdict. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHENEEN MCCLAIN, MOTHER OF ELIJAH MCCLAIN: My son was murdered by killer cops and their accomplices. And the system, the justice system allows for them to continue with their crimes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
FOSTER: One of the two other officers was indicted -- indicted -- was recently found guilty of lesser charges. The other officer was acquitted and two paramedics are set to go on trial soon. 
 
Two men are facing gun charges after police say they crashed into a barricade near the U.S. Capitol whilst attempting to flee from officers on Sunday. A law enforcement official tells CNN there's no indication at this time that the suspects were targeting the Capitol. 
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
NOBILO: Police say the men were in a stolen car and two pistols were found, including one that had been illegally converted into an automatic firearm. The two men are facing a slew of charges and a preliminary hearing is set for Thursday. 
 
The office sharing company, WeWork, has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The company, which was at one time valued at $47 billion, tried and failed to go public back in 2019. 
 
FOSTER: WeWork eventually went public roughly 2 years later at a much- reduced valuation of about $9 billion after the pandemic and economic slowdown caused many clients to close their doors. Shares of WeWork have plunged 98 percent this year alone. There's so much spare office space now, isn't it? 
 
NOBILO: The Prince of Wales is set to walk the green carpet at tonight's Earth Shop Prize awards in Singapore. 
 
FOSTER: William launched the prize three years ago to find and fund the most innovative solutions to the world's greatest environmental challenges. The 15 finalists will be narrowed down to five winners. They'll each be awarded more than $1.2 million to develop and scale their environmental solutions. 
 
NOBILO: Four months in and still no deal between major Hollywood studios and the striking Screen Actors Guild. SAG AFTRA says it has responded to the last, best and final offer from studios. But the two sides still don't see eye to eye, especially on issues like the use of AI in movies and on TV. 
 
FOSTER: The Actors Union says it's still dedicated to getting the right deal and ending the strike responsibly. The talks have recently become more urgent, with studios hoping to salvage the upcoming winter television season. It's gone on and on now. 
 
Thanks for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster.
 
NOBILO: And I'm Bianca Nobilo. "EARLY START" is up next right here on CNN. 
 <br>[05:00:00]