Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia Launching Attacks Across Ukraine; Polish PM: No Longer Sending Weapons To Ukraine; US Official: White House To Announce New Ukraine Aid; Zelenskyy Decries Russian Veto Power At UN Security Council; Biden Invites Netanyahu To Washington For Visit; Saudi Crown Prince: Closer To Israel Normalisation; UN Chief Admonishes Polluters At World Climate Summit; British PM Announces Delays To Climate Goals; Azerbaijan Claiming Control Of Nagorno-Karabakh; Protestors Call For Non-Libyan Entities To Oversee Rebuild; Mexican Freight Trains Used By Migrants Fleeing To US Halted; 'Unbreakable' Mother of Three Fights on Front Lines in Ukraine; Two Senior Chinese Officials Go Missing. Aired 12-12:45a ET

Aired September 21, 2023 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[00:00:00]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN NEWSROOM ANCHOR: Inaction on climate change, the UK prime minister announced his new policies to get us all there just a little bit faster. And a 24 hour long military offensive ends with Azerbaijan having total control for the first time in decades of an independent enclave, home to more than a hundred thousand ethnic Armenians. Hello everyone, thank you for joining us, we'll have those stories in a moment. 
 
But first the very latest from Ukraine with new Russian strikes on multiple Ukrainian cities. In the northeast, Ukrainian officials in Kharkiv are warning residents to stay in shelters due to heavy Russian shelling. No word on casualties, and officials are still assessing the extent of the damage. And earlier Thursday, air raid sirens sounded in the capital of Kyiv with the Reuters News Agency reporting the sound of explosions a short time ago. 
 
Officials say the city's air defense system intercepted a number of Russian airstrikes with reports of debris falling over central Kyiv and elsewhere. More on that story as details come in. But now, the latest strikes come amid a dramatic downward spiral in relations between Ukraine, and one of its biggest supporters in NATO, that would be Poland. 
 
What began as a dispute over Ukrainian grain import has quickly escalated in recent days with Poland's prime minister announcing late Wednesday, an end to supplying weapons to Ukraine, and a focus instead on arming its own defense forces. 
 
Poland and four other neighboring countries issued a ban on Ukrainian grain imports after farmers complained over a slump in prices caused by the increased grain supply. France has sided with Ukraine, and called the move unjustified. And the European Council President Charles Michel, says EU support for Ukraine remains steadfast. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHARLES MICHEL, EUROPEAN COUNCIL PRESIDENT: The EU intends to support Ukraine for as long as it takes. Ukraine's pricing there is criminal. And it is extremely important to make sure that there will be no impunity.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: But there also appears to be signs of growing divisions within the US congress over continued backing of Ukraine. With opinion polls showing a lack of support for Ukraine among Americans, a growing number of Republican lawmakers are threatening to end funding. A position supported by most Republican presidential hopefuls. The US president, though, has promised Ukrainians they won't face Russia alone and he's called for global unity to end the war. 
 
A White House official tells CNN a significant new aid package for Ukraine, including artillery, anti armor rounds, and air defense capabilities will be announced Thursday during a visit by the Ukrainian president. Volodymyr Zelenskyy made his case for more support in person at the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday, and he called out the elephant in the room, a deadlocked Security Council since the world began because Russia is a permanent member with Veto power.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): In cases of mass atrocities against human rights, Veto power should be voluntarily suspended. But we can also observe that Russia will not give up this stolen privilege voluntarily. Therefore, the UN General Assembly should be given a real power to overcome the Veto. This will be the first necessary step. It is impossible to stop the war, because all efforts are Vetoed by the aggressor.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Barbara Walter is a permanent member of the council on foreign relations, and professor of international relations at the University of California, San Diego. And a world renowned expert on how conflicts begin and how they also end. It has been a while. It's good to see you.
 
BARBARA WALTER, ROHR PROF. OF INTL. AFFAIRS, UNIV. OF CALIF. SAN DIEGO: It's great to be here. Thank you. 
 
VAUSE: Okay, so, one way this war could also end is by division. and that division within NATO. And that brings us to this decision by Poland to end supplying weapons to Ukraine. This comes amid a dispute over Ukrainian grain. You know, farmers in Poland are blaming the imports for a slump in prices. So how significant is this rift right now between Kyiv and Warsaw, not just in the impact on the battlefield which seems minimal, but the overall bigger impact on what appears to be some very serious cracks? WALTER: I think this is actually just a temporary rift, and it's temporary because I think it's purely political. Poland has an election next month. Currently there is a right-wing party in power, a populist party. The farmers are very important for that party to stay in power and to win the elections next month, and populist voters also tend to be kind of us first voters, Poland first, or America first. 
 
And so it's a smart political move on some levels for the prime minister to pull back in this month before the elections. To say that we are going to take care of Poland's defense first. To say that we are not going to buy Ukrainian grain, instead we're going to continue to buy Polish grain and make the farmers happy. So I think this is a political move that is not going to have long-standing consequences.
 <br>[00:05:07]
 
VAUSE: Okay. Well the French foreign minister said this decision by Poland was unjustified, citing an EU study which found the Ukrainian grain did not distort local prices. Here's Catherine Colonna. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CATHERINE COLONNA, FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): There is no market upheaval, and there are perhaps internal political considerations on the part of some of our partners, which unfortunately pushes them to have this position that nothing justifies.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: So the opinion there from the French foreign minister was essentially, you know, this is sort of internal politics and Poland coming out to play. But there are other European countries siding with Poland over this issue. But then this also brings us to division within the United States. 
 
And while the White House plans to provide Ukraine with new aid during Zelenskyy's visit on Thursday, there's a good number of Republicans balking at continued support to Ukraine. And divisions among European nations, growing divisions in the US congress, it may not be in the start of the crack but is this heading in the direction that Putin has been hoping for?
 
WALTER: Of course every day, every month that the West doesn't continue to support Ukraine either by buying grain or sending additional resources and munitions is going to hurt Ukraine. And Ukraine needs all the help that it can get. What's happening here in the United States is in some ways similar to what's happening in Poland. Americans are divided based on party. 71 percent of Republicans do not support continuing to send aid to Ukraine. 
 
About 62 percent of Democrats want to continue to support Ukraine. So there's very much a divide. And again the divide is the result of what different people think about how the US should be spending its money. Republicans increasingly think we should be spending on the United States. America first. Why should we be sending our money to a country that's far away? Whereas Democrats believe that supporting Ukraine and defeating Russian aggression is important not only for US security but for the security of our allies and the world as well.
 
VAUSE: And in part, one of the reasons this war has dragged on for so long is because Russia has used its Veto to block any intent of the UN Security Council to intervene. So with that in mind, here is the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANOTONY BLINKEN, US SECRETARY OF STATE: For over a year and a half, Russia has shredded the major tenants of the United Nations charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Humanitarian Law, and flouted one Security Council resolution after another. It's hard to imagine a country demonstrating more contempt for the United Nations and all that it stands for. This, from a country with a permanent seat on this council.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: And just moments ago we also heard from the Ukrainian president saying that, you know, this war cannot end while Russia has that Veto power on the Security Council. Is he right?
 
WALER: Well the war could end in lots of different ways. The war could end by Russia being defeated, Ukraine being defeated, or both sides agreeing to some sort of negotiated settlement. The UN is not going to really have very much influence in how this war ends. In large part because Russia is not going to agree to any UN action that's going to hurt Russia in any way. And that's just not going to change.
 
People like to think about the United Nations as having independent power. They like to think of it as an organization that can act in the best interest of all countries in the world, and certainly can act against an aggressor and a country that is committing war crimes. But the reality is the UN is just an organization made up of member countries, and most of the power is in the hands of five countries. And one of those countries is Russia. And Russia is not going to give up that power, and the UN is not going to change the system because it benefits those five countries.
 
VAUSE: And Barbara, it's so good to have you with us. Your insights, and your expertise, and your experience. It's great to have you speaking with us. Good to see you.
 
WALTER: My pleasure. Thank you.
 
VAUSE: Take care. The US president is working to improve frosty relations with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, inviting him to Washington later this year. The two leaders met on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, their first face to face talk since Netanyahu was re-elected in December. 
 
Relations between the Biden administration and Netanyahu's extreme far-right coalition have been strained for months. Most recently over the president's public criticism of judicial reforms in Israel which weaken the authority of the supreme court. But on Wednesday, with the cameras rolling, no sign of any disagreements.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: We are going to discuss some of the hard issues. And that is upholding Democratic values that lie at the heart of our partnership. Including the checks and balances in our systems. And preserving a path to negotiate a two-state solution, and ensuring that Iran never, never acquires a nuclear weapon.
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: I believe that working together we can make history, and create a better future for the region and beyond. And also by working together we can confront those forces that threaten that future. None more so than Iran.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: President Biden noted that he worked with Netanyahu as a freshman senator, and gave up counting how long they have been friends. Netanyahu said it's been more than 40 years. The US is not the only country trying to ease tensions with Israel. Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman says the kingdom is moving closer to normalizing relations. Talks are underway over UN security guarantees and civilian nuclear help from Riyadh along with possible Israeli concessions to the Palestinians.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MOHAMMED BIN SALMAN, SAUDI CROWN PRINCE: We have good negotiations continue until now. We've got to see where it will go. We hope it will reach a place that it will ease the life of the Palestinians and as a player in the Middle East.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So you think if you were to characterize it, are you close?
 
SALMAN: Everyday we get closer. It seems it's, for the first time, real one, serious. We're going to see how it goes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The crown prince warned that if Iran gets a nuclear weapon, Saudi Arabia will have no choice but to build their own as well. The UN secretary general sent a clear message during a global climate summit Wednesday. We're headed towards a dangerous and unstable world. Antonio Guterres implored countries to commit to net zero emissions by the year 2050 or earlier. He also scolded some of the world's biggest polluters for going against their commitments by expanding the use of fossil fuels. Here is his stark warning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY GENERAL: Humanity has opened the gates of hell. Horrendous heat is having a horrendous effects. Distraught farmers watching crops carried away by floods. Sweltering temperatures spawning disease. And thousands fleeing in fear as historic fires rage.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The list of speakers at the summit was restricted to a group of member states which the UN believes have clear and effective plans to address climate change. Notably not on that list, the United States, China, and India. The UK did not make the list either, instead Prime Minister Rishi Sunak was in London, announcing a series of delays to key climate targets which critics consider a sharp turn from the UK's former stance. The move has angered some business and allies as well. Details now from CNN's Anna Stewart reporting in from London.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: The prime minister said he wasn't watering down the UK's climate targets, but the UK still planning to reach net zero by 2050. He has, however, watered down some climate policies that were introduced by a previous government. In fact, a government that he was in. He was a finance minister. He says both labor and conservative governments have failed to be honest with the public about the cost of climate policy.
 
RISHI SUNAK, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: No one in Westminster politics has yet had the courage to look people in the eye and explain what's really involved. That's wrong, and it changes now.
 
STEWART: The biggest change is to a ban on buying new petrol or diesel parts that has now been delayed from 2030 to 2035, and that's a change that has angered carmakers in the UK. There were also a number of changes to how Britains can heat their homes in the future, relaxing a plan to phase out new gas boilers, and doubling a grant for households to upgrade their boilers worth more than $9 thousand. 
 
The reason for these changes are dual-fold according to the prime minister. Firstly he says the UK is further ahead of every country in the world when it comes to tackling climate change, saying that the UK has the fastest reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of the G7. So he's essentially arguing here that there is carbon headroom to relax policy. Secondly, he says he is concerned that the British public couldn't afford the policies. 
 
Buying new electric vehicles, new boilers, and insulating homes, all at a time of high inflation and high borrowing costs. Some, of course, question whether there's another reason and that this is the starting gun of Rishi Sunak's election campaign. Whether it was rejecting this list of heavy-handed measures, which weren't even policy, the prime minister mentioned opposing the sorting of trash into seven different bins twice in his statement.
 <br>[00:15:02]
 
Or the use of these three words throughout. Pragmatic, proportionate, realistic. Reinforced in a tweet from the prime minister. A new political slogan perhaps. Not the sexiest but the sentiment may appeal to those struggling with the cost of living and those on the right of the conservative party who want to see less government intervention. Anna Stewart, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Well, for the first time in decades, Azerbaijan says it now controls the independent enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh after Armenian separatists in the breakaway enclave accepted a cease-fire and agreed to lay down their arms. Talks aimed at integrating the territory into Azerbaijan set to begin Thursday. 
 
This was a dramatic turn of events that came after the enclave security forces were overwhelmed Tuesday by an Azerbaijani military offensive. Local authorities report at least 200 deaths and hundreds more injured during that offensive which lasted about 24 hours. Azerbaijan's president later announced the military operation was over.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ILHAM ALIYEV, AZERBAIJANI PRESIDENT (through translator): As a result of the start and successful completion of the anti-terrorist measures, Azerbaijan restored the sovereignty. In just one day, Azerbaijan completed all the tasks set within the framework of local anti- terrorist measures.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Nagorno-Karabakh is culturally tied to Armenia. The enclave has already been at the center of two previous wars between Azerbaijan and Armenia, and its sudden collapse has triggered angry protests in the Armenian capital. For more details, here's CNN's Nic Robertson, reporting from London.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Casualties from Azerbaijan's deadly artillery assault rushed to hospital in the majority Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh. The Armenian death toll growing as their historic foe's fragile piece explodes into dangerous warfare with potentially disastrous consequences.
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: We are concerned and it is important that both parties now de-escalate.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): A cease-fire agreed Wednesday, but they've been here before. Two wars in the past 30 years over the disputed region. But in June, Azerbaijan began blocking the strategic Lachin corridor, the only link between Armenia Proper and the 120 thousand people living in the enclave. Internationally recognized as part of Azerbaijan, humanitarian aid convoys were denied access. 
 
Russian peacekeepers couldn't or wouldn't get them through. Food and fuel in the enclave were in short supply. Respected international lawyer Luis Moreno Ocampo wrote a legal opinion calling the blockade genocide. Azerbaijan disputes his analysis. And in recent weeks Armenians claimed Azerbaijani forces were massing weapons readying for a new offensive. Tuesday, their fears of attack were realized. The enclave's de facto capital Stepanakert echoing to gun and artillery fire. Frightened women and children cowering in the streets.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): You don't know how to live in such a situation, how to raise your children when you constantly live in stress, tension and no one wants to help you.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Civilian homes smashed as Azerbaijani officials claim they've launched an offensive against terrorists, demanded the Armenian army leave, and the Nagorno-Karabakh government disband and depart. Armenia denies it's the aggressor. EU politicians while calling for calm also calling out Russia's peacekeepers in action and Azerbaijan's intransigence.
 
ROBERTSON: The fear for many Armenians is that Azerbaijan's terms for the cease-fire will be so tough, they will feel forced to leave Nagorno-Karabakh. And that, they say, would be ethnic cleansing. Nic Robertson, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: When we come back, survivors of the devastating floods in Libya are in urgent need of aid. Some protesters say they want anyone but government officials and Libyans overseeing the rebuilding efforts on the city of Derna. Details in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:22:01]
 
VAUSE: Recovery teams in Libya say they're concerned about the spread of disease as they find more bodies of victims of the catastrophic flooding last week. Ten days since the disaster, the city of Derna continues to resemble a war zone. Roads and buildings were swept away when storm Daniel collapsed two dams which unleashed floodwaters several stories high. One resident says it all happened suddenly with no warnings from the government. 
 
Families and neighbors continue to search for loved ones who remain missing. The World Health Organization and the United Nations say about 4 thousand deaths have been confirmed by hospitals, including 4 hundred migrants. But the reality is the true toll remains unknown. To New York and joining us now is Jagan Chapagain, the secretary general of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. Mr. Chapagain thank you sir for being with us.
 
JAGAN CHAPAGAIN, CEO, INTL. FEDERATION OF RED CROSS AND RED CRESCENT SOCIETIES: Thank you for having me.
 
VAUSE: Okay, so the relatives of those who did not survive this disaster, there is clearly this urgent need to recover the bodies of the dead. But the reality is there could be thousands of those bodies buried under the mud in the debris in Derna. And there, daytime temperatures are hitting around 30 degrees celsius, they've been there for, what, about ten days now. 
 
And apologies if this sounds quite blunt and maybe cruel, but what are the wider health risks the longer it takes to find and dispose of those bodies? How urgent is this part of the crisis right now?
 
CHAPAGAIN: As time goes by with the very high temperature, the risk of decomposed body causes a problem. So that's why it's a really important issue but more importantly, John, it's also the dignity for the family. You know, in many cultures, actually in all cultures when somebody dies, for them to get identified and giving them a decent, dignified burial is extremely important for the family. 
 
So when the family cannot do that, it adds to the mental health issues, the pressure and anxiety for the family. So it has definitely the health component as time goes longer, but it also has the dignity and you know the mental health issues for the families.
 
VAUSE: And when you talk about the mental health issues here, there was this initial shock and grief among many in Derna. That now seems to be turning in some cases to anger. Earlier this week, hundreds protested demanding an investigation into the collapse of the two dams, as well as any reconstruction in Derna to be carried out by outside groups. They don't want any Libyan companies and Libyan officials involved. Here's one protester, listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): First of all, we pray that all the martyrs will rest in peace and I hope this is the end of our catastrophes. We just ask that if there will be any rebuilding efforts that no Libyan company be ever involved. This is because everyone in Derna from the head of the municipality to all the officials are corrupt. Derna should either be left as it is or a foreign company should be involved. The souls of the martyrs will not be in vain.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[00:25:04]
 
VAUSE: If nothing else, there is anger and clearly not a lot of trust right now among the local population and the officials. But how volatile is the current situation in Derna and are you concerned if this sort of continues unchecked, it could impact your efforts there to help those who are in the greatest need right now?
 
CHAPAGAIN: As you know of course that Libya has been going through instability for many years. So of course before the disaster happened, the situation was not that great.The people had gone through a long period of instability. And in the middle of all that, of course is happening in such a sudden way and loss of so many lives in such a short period of time, of course created the grief and more grief has turned into anger. 
 
And you are absolutely right that if this continues for too long, of course the anger can further flare up. So that's why it's extremely important to get the humanitarian assistance as quickly as possible.
 
VAUSE: What is the gap between what you have, what is being committed, and what assistance is already on its way, and what is needed? CHAPAGAIN: I think, you know, the Libyan authorities have been very helpful and very supportive to get the assistance into the country. Some of our member national societies have managed to get around eight plane loads of goods into the country. Of course if you compare with the needs on the ground this is still pretty small. We know other organizers are getting stuff into the country, but this is nowhere enough to what is needed. 
 
So we are scaling up, we intend to review our appeal in a few days time, depending on how some of the operations go in the country. So in summary, the assistance is coming in. It's not enough, more resources are absolutely needed and they are needed very quickly.
 
VAUSE: Jagan Chapagain, secretary general of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. Thank you sir, we wish you all the very best of luck. Obviously this is a difficult one to deal with, and, you know, it's going to be ongoing for a while, so we wish you the very best, and all those working with you.
 
CHAPAGAIN: Unfortunately it will. Thank you for having me.
 
VAUSE: A pleasure sir, thank you. One of Mexico's biggest train operators has suspended freight services on 60 different lines heading north into the US. Dozens of migrants were either killed or injured trying to hitch a ride across the border. CNN's David Culver reports the suspension comes as the number of migrants trying to cross into the United States has once again spiked. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN SENIOR US NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: With growing concerns over a rising number of migrants trying to cross into the US through the southern border, one of Mexico's largest freight rail operators, Ferromex, has halted several northbound trains. Now these are the freight trains that migrants jump onto and they ride for days amid really treacherous conditions. 
 
It takes them from places in southern Mexico, close to the US border. In May, my team and I went aboard and rode only what is a small portion of what some referred to as la bestia, the beast, given how dangerous and deadly it can be for migrants.
 
CULVER: We have permission to go up. Okay. Yeah. Many of these folks tell me they've been on here not hours but days. It's four days on the train but he's been traveling from Venezuela for six months. He's going to show me the little things he brought with him. This is everything he has, right here. But yesterday this is what he's got -- . He finished his food but he has a little bit of water left. 
 
He says he wants to work in the US when he gets there. He wants a better future. A better life. I asked him, where are they going then? He said they really don't know but as of now they are basically just going with no idea as to what is next. Getting all their belongings out of what they have with them.
 
CULVER: Now the trains were halted to protect the migrants, according to the railroad operator. Mexico's president had said he would assure the routes continue, but it speak to not only the pressures for US border officials but the growing number of migrants flooding into Mexico. It's something we saw firsthand this summer. 500 miles from the US southern border encampment filling Mexico City. 
 
The country's capital struggling to deal with the influx. Shelters overcrowding. We noted at the time, while the number of migrants entering the US was decreasing after Title 42 ended, it by no means has stopped the flow. Those migrants still desperate, still determined to reach their end goal which for most is the United States. David Culvert, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:30:06]
 
VAUSE: Coming up here on CNN, a mother on the front lines in Ukraine. Meet a seasoned Ukrainian soldier who's sacrificing raising her children and her family to fight for her country. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back, everyone. I'm John Vause. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Some of the most fierce battles in Ukraine right now are happening in the South. Among those fighting on the front lines, a battle-hardened soldier who's also a mother of three young children. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen met the woman they call unbreakable.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): As Ukrainian artillery hits Russian troops, one of those scoping out Vladimir Putin's forces and directing the fire is not only a career soldier but also a mom of three. Her call sign, "Nislana" (ph), the unbreakable. 
 
"I've seen so much at this stage that I can't be easily taken by surprise," she says, "but of course, there is a constant risk."
 
Nislana (ph) has two daughters and a 5-year-old son. She hasn't seen them since April. 
 
"Is it tough?" I ask.
 
"Of course. They get offended when I'm not there, when they need me as a parent, but they understand someone needs to do this work for our country," she says. 
 
And that work is often gruesome for those on the front lines here in the South. The 42nd Mechanized Brigade gave us this video say say shows their troops coming under Russian fire, even while collecting the bodies of their fallen comrades. 
 
Their U.S.-supplied Bradley fighting vehicles bearing the scars of relentless combat. 
 
PLEITGEN: This vehicle is really emblematic of just how tough the battle is down here in the South. You can see there's a lot of fire damage. Well, the Ukrainians say that's because this vehicle took hits from Russian artillery, 152-millimeter Russian artillery shells.
 
And they say this is not an outlier. Most vehicles look like this. 
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): The troops say they are making headway, but often still get bogged down in Russian minefields and artillery barrages. Bradley driver nicknamed "Rebel" (ph) recalls his toughest mission. 
 
"The most scary situation was driving behind a demining vehicle while it was creating a path for us," he says. "We were coming under constant shelling. The rounds were landing a few meters away from us." 
 
Ukrainian forces remain badly outgunned, as the country's president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, is in the U.S., pressing the Biden administration for more ammo. 
 <br>[00:35:02]
 
"Nislana" (ph) says she will fight on for the future of her children. 
 
"I want them to live in a flourishing country," she says. "I said many times that our job is small. We only have to win back our borders, but they will have to rebuild the whole country; and that is a much harder job." 
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Iran's Parliament has approved a new law which could see women sentenced up to ten years in prison for dress code violations, including wearing the hijab incorrectly. 
 
Women who refuse to wear head covering also face financial penalties. And if there is proof that the not wearing a hijab was part of an organized boycott, the sentence increases to prison time.
 
According to state media, the bill will have a trial period of three years. Human rights advocates have condemned the bill and are telling it gender apartheid. 
 
Well, the sudden disappearance of two senior Chinese cabinet ministers in recent months has sparked speculation that all is not well within Xi Jinping's hand-picked ruling elite. And CNN's Will Ripley has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Away from the great hall's glaring lights, in the shadows of Xi Jinping's China, a silent storm is brewing. Trouble at the top of the Communist Party. 
 
Two high-profile senior officials, once trusted members of Xi's inner circle, abruptly vanished from public view with little explanation. 
 
First, it was Foreign Minister Qin Gang, China's second most powerful diplomat. On CNN last year. 
 
QIN GANG, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTER: We are fully justified to do what we must. 
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): A close aide of the Chinese leader, winning favor with the help of his wife's homemade moon cakes, "The Washington Post" reports.
 
Just seven months into the job, a dramatic fall. In June, he disappeared. In July, he was dismissed. 
 
The foreign ministry in Beijing refusing to address reporting by "The Wall Street Journal," saying they are "not aware" of claims Qin was ousted for an extramarital affair during his stint as China's U.S. ambassador in Washington. 
 
Citing sources familiar with a Communist Party investigation, "The Journal" claims Qin's affair led to the birth of an American-born child, a potential problem for China's national security. 
 
TERRILL JONES, LECTURER, CLAREMONT MCKENNA COLLEGE: So there is a question as to, well, you know, are there such people in China still whom Xi Jinping can trust and rely upon to be his closest aides and associates? 
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Palace intrigue at a fever pitch. Speculation swirling over another apparent disappearance. 
 
China's defense minister, Li Shangfu, last seen in late August, more than three weeks ago. 
 
Back in June, he briefly shook hands but refused to meet with U.S. defense minister [SIC] Lloyd Austin in Singapore. Now, Li is "under investigation," Reuters said last week. A government probe reportedly over the purchase of military equipment. 
 
Last month, a surprise shake-up in the People's Liberation Army rocket force. Two leaders suddenly replaced without explanation. 
 
Beijing notoriously nebulous when it comes to bad-behaving senior leaders. This latest scandal involving the defense minister setting China's heavily-censored social media on fire. From the foreign ministry -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I'm not aware of the situation. 
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): A familiar response. No answers but plenty of questions about instability at the top, and the potential danger it brings. JONES: But I do think there's more to it. Xi Jinping, he would not
 
 take these measures against such high-level military and diplomatic figures unless he felt some kind of genuine risk. 
 
RIPLEY: What these purges do is they raise a question about President Xi's judgment, because Qin and Li were both considered loyalists. They were handpicked by the president himself. 
 
And their removal from such visible positions so abruptly, it raises questions in the international community about the stability of the Chinese system.
 
And you know, Chinese leaders have long said that their stability makes their system superior to democracies. 
 
President Xi, however, might be sending a message to the world that, no matter who he has put by his side, if they fall out of favor, no one is indispensable. No one is irreplaceable under his one-man rule. 
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Pomp and pageantry on display as Britain's King Charles finally makes a long-delayed visit to France. In a moment, we'll check on the royal agenda and what they're having for dinner. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:41:46]
 
VAUSE: Britain's King Charles waking to his second day in France and with an address to the French Senate later today.
 
President Emmanuel Macron welcomed His Majesty and Queen Camilla on Wednesday with a ceremony at the Arc de Triomphe and a lavish banquet at the Palace of Versailles. 
 
The king's visit was delayed by six months because of violent protests across France over pension reform. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KING CHARLES, UNITED KINGDOM (through translator, from French): I cannot tell you how delighted my wife and I are to be with you this evening at the end of the first day of our first state visit to France, and how touched we are by the magnificent welcome that was given to us. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Enchante. 
 
An Elysee Palace source says talks between Prince Charles and President Macron will focus on the war in Ukraine and climate change, among other pressing issues. I'm John Vause, back at the top of the hour with more CNN NEWSROOM. In
 
 the meantime, WORLD SPORT starts after a very short break. See you right back here in about 17 minutes.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:29]
 
(WORLD SPORT)