Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Biden: Deal should Bring Home Additional American Hostages; Breakthrough Deal Brokered by Qatari, Egyptian Mediation; U.S. Government Awards Musk's SpaceX $1.2B Contract, $70M in Starshield; Israel's Cabinet Approves Hostage Release Deal; U.S. Retaliates after Attack on U.S., Coalition Forces. Aired 9-9:45a ET

Aired November 22, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: It's 9 am here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley, and this is "Connect the World". Hostage exchanges 
 
 could get underway as soon as tomorrow after a breakthrough deal between Israel and Hamas. Forever scarred by war, we'll bring you the stories of 
 
 children in Gaza who lived through Israeli airstrikes, but at what cost? And a turbulent time for OpenAI, the company behind ChatGPT welcomes back 
 
 its Former CEO.
 
And welcome once again to "Connect the World". And we begin with a glimmer of hope from a breakthrough deal in the Israel Hamas war. And now we're 
 
 hearing that a truce is due to begin Thursday morning. This comes after both sides agreed to release of at least 80, sorry 50 hostages held in Gaza 
 
 by Hamas, along with that pause in fighting.
 
The move is bringing hope to families waiting for the return of their loved ones. In exchange Hamas says 150 Palestinian prisoners will be freed from 
 
 Israeli jails. Israel's leader says he talked to the IDF about the deal, take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER: All the security forces supported fully. They made it clear in their full professional assessment, 
 
 that the security of our forces will be guaranteed during the days of the ceasefire, and that the intelligence effort will be maintained during these 
 
 days.
 
They understood that not only will the war effort not be compromised on the contrary; this will allow the IDF to prepare for the continuation of the 
 
 fighting. And I would like to make it clear here again, the war continues.
 
The war will continue until we achieve all of our goals to eliminate Hamas, to return all our hostages, to ensure that the day after Hamas, Gaza will 
 
 no longer be a threat to Israel. There will be no element in it that supports terrorism. That educates its children to terror, and will threaten 
 
 the state of Israel.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: And the truce meanwhile, would allow the entry of what Qatar, a key negotiator calls "A larger number of humanitarian convoys and relief 
 
 aid". In Rome, Pope Francis has been meeting separately with families on both sides of the conflict, urging the world to pray for peace for Israel 
 
 and for Palestinians.
 
And the U.S. Secretary of State also reacting to news of the deal saying in his words, we will not rest as long as Hamas continues to hold hostages. 
 
 Let's bring in MJ Lee in Washington for us. MJ, good to have you with us. President Biden, for his part choosing also to hone in and focus on the 
 
 release of American hostages in particular, which I think you would expect.
 
But everybody is acknowledging that this is an enormous breakthrough. I think now just keeping fingers crossed, that everything goes to plan and we 
 
 start to see that truce and then the release of hostages from Thursday morning.
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, that's right. And as of this morning, we do have new information from U.S. officials, specifically 
 
 about those American hostages being held in Gaza. We of course had already been talking about Abigail Edan. This is the three-year-old toddler who is 
 
 believed to be held hostage in Gaza, the youngest known American hostage.
 
But in addition to Abigail, U.S. officials say that there are also two women, adult women, American citizens. And they are now saying that those 
 
 three Abigail and the two women are strongly expected to be in the mix of those initial 50 hostages that are going to be led out in this initial 
 
 first phase.
 
Of course, as far as the Biden Administration is concerned, they are thinking about the totality of the 10 unaccounted for Americans. And there 
 
 are still questions of course, about the others in that group. We don't know for example, if we might be talking about male adult American citizens 
 
 who are in the mix who of course wouldn't be a part of the women and children only group of the first 50 that are going to be released.
 
And what U.S. officials are saying is that they are hopeful that this deal that has been struck is structured in such a way to incentivize Hamas to 
 
 continue releasing more hostages, even after those first 50. Of course as we've been talking about, the deal is structured in such a way that 10 
 
 additional hostages would get Hamas an additional day of pause in fighting. So we'll end up seeing you know, how many hostages Hamas is willing to and 
 
 able to release.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
But the expectation, again from here in Washington is that as many as three Americans could be released as a part of that first wave of hostages that 
 
 are left out.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, important to know MJ. And as you said, the many questions surrounding whether that truce can continue beyond those four days and 
 
 whether or not Hamas will utilize the opportunity there to hand back 10 on each of those extra days, if indeed, we do see that.
 
For now MJ, you've also got a lot of information on just what it took to get to this point? The pauses, the dark periods of silence in these 
 
 negotiations just walk us through what it took, in terms of negotiations to get to this point.
 
LEE: Yes. We've learned so much more about the weeks and weeks of painstaking negotiations between the U.S. Israel Hamas mediated, of course 
 
 by the Qataris. To get us to this point, what we've learned is that essentially shortly after October 7th, a top secret channel of 
 
 communication was established by a small group of White House officials and Israeli and Qatari officials, in order to negotiate with Hamas about the 
 
 hostage situation.
 
And you'll remember that last month, we saw the release of two American women, American citizens. This is Judith and Natalie Raanan. And when that 
 
 was executed successfully, that basically signaled to U.S. officials that they did feel like they had an effective way of negotiating with Hamas as 
 
 painful and sort of slow moving and touching go, that process was at times and that's when they set out to try to get a larger group of hostages out.
 
But as our reporting has shown the challenges of doing this has been just incredibly immense. We have in our reporting, that for a while Hamas 
 
 actually refused to offer any identifying information about the hostages that they claim to have their gender, their age, their nationalities and 
 
 then, so much so that this ended up being a major sticking point.
 
And at one point U.S. and Israeli officials were discussing even whether Israel should delay its ground invasion because they thought a deal was so 
 
 close. But they ended up not doing that because they didn't buy the fact that Hamas even had these hostages, given that they weren't offering any 
 
 kind of proof.
 
So these details just offer a little glimpse into how tenuous these negotiations were. And why officials all along said, they basically weren't 
 
 even willing to get their hopes up because they did believe that things could break down at any point during these negotiations.
 
CHATTERLEY: Fascinating insights MJ. We'll let you get back to a news gathering. Thank you for now from Washington there. Now new radar satellite 
 
 data shows that up to half of the buildings in Northern Gaza have been damaged since the start of the Israel Hamas war on October 7th that roughly 
 
 accounts for as many as 23,000 buildings researchers obtained satellite radar imagery using a method similar to echolocation to map out the region 
 
 across all of Gaza they say at least 20 percent of buildings have been damaged since the start of the war.
 
And Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is welcoming the agreement which he calls a humanitarian truce. And he's also calling for a 
 
 broad ceasefire. As we mentioned, the deal also includes the release of Palestinian prisoners from Israeli jails. Israel has published the names of 
 
 300 prisoners who could potentially be freed, most are teenage boys.
 
Let's get more from Nana Bashir in Jerusalem. Nada, I've had a look at this list. Some of these individuals are in some way affiliated with known 
 
 terrorist groups like Hamas, but I have to say many aren't. Can you give us a sense of why some of these individuals were detained just to give us a 
 
 sense of who indeed might be being released?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well look Julia, as we know some 150 prisoners are set to be released in that initial phase, but that list details the 
 
 names of 300 detainees potentially set to be released. And of course, as you mentioned the vast majority of those featured in this list are under 
 
 the age of 18 teenage boys.
 
And of course as we know the vast majority in this list had been detained for not serious offenses according to the Israel Defense Forces, including 
 
 throwing stones at the Israeli military. Of course there has been long standing concern around the detention of children under the age of 18 
 
 across Israel and the occupied West Bank.
 
And of course as we know this figure, this 150 figure of prisoners set to be released. It's just a fraction of the more than 8000 Palestinians 
 
 currently in Israeli custody, including more than 3000 currently under administrative detention. And what that means that they are under detention 
 
 without any clear charges without an ongoing legal process.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
And according to Amnesty International that detention, that process could go on for an indefinite period of time. Now of course, this is being seen 
 
 as a welcome step. As you mentioned, this list includes 300 names perhaps a signal that we may well see a second phase of potential releases if indeed 
 
 this deal is seen through indeed the terms of the deal are followed through on both sides fully.
 
And of course a crucial part of that deal can't forget as MJ mentioned, is that four day truce that pause in fighting that will be crucial of course 
 
 for getting aid into the Gaza Strip. And as we have seen over the last few days and weeks the humanitarian situation is deteriorating by the hour.
 
We have been seen that mounting death toll particularly amongst children is many are now facing horrific circumstances not only being displaced from 
 
 their homes, but many of course wounded with life changing injuries. And we got a glimpse of that from reporting on the ground of some of the children 
 
 that have had to deal with some of the worst experiences when it comes to the injuries many are facing, take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR (voice-over): Bandaged and soar still healing from emergency surgery. For 11-year-old Asif Abuhadi (ph), this wound is a constant 
 
 reminder of the trauma he and his friends had faced. They had been playing outside near his home in Gaza City when they see an airstrike hit.
 
I was walking with my friends and then suddenly the metal fell, Asif says. I found myself on the ground lying on my right side. I kept trying to stand 
 
 up but there was rubble on top of my leg. When they removed the rubble I saw that my foot had been ripped off. A huge soccer fan he played at the 
 
 local academy and had dreams of becoming a professional soccer player.
 
I've been watching and playing soccer since I was a little boy. It's still my favorite sport, Asif tells us. Now the Israeli occupation has destroyed 
 
 my dreams. Down the hole is 12-year-old Malik Al-Kufarna (ph) his family fled their home in Beth Hanoun after receiving a warning from the Israeli 
 
 military.
 
They moved from city to city searching for safety followed each time, but yet more airstrikes. I wanted to take photos to become a photo journalist, 
 
 Malik says. How can I hold a camera now with one arm, my whole life has ruined. All of my life, I haven't had a chance to live happily.
 
While some here are now slowly coming to terms with their new reality, more wounded children arrive at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital every day. It is now 
 
 the main working hospital in Gaza. Others left in a state of complete collapse.
 
Just Monday more wounded were rushed to this hospital after a U.N.-run school used to shelter displaced Palestinians at the Bureij Refugee Camp 
 
 (ph) was hit. The resulting death toll still is unknown. It's unclear who was responsible for this specific attack.
 
Hamas claims the Israeli military bombed the school, though CNN cannot independently verify this claim the IDF yet to respond to CNN's request for 
 
 comment. But as airstrikes and shelling intensify in the north, Gaza's children are, as is so often the case, paying the highest price. With 
 
 thousands wounded or killed and hopes for the future lost.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR (on camera): Now of course Julia, as we know after the end of this truce, if it is indeed seen through those four days, we have heard from 
 
 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying that the war will continue. This is by no means a ceasefire.
 
When we speak to people on the ground and when you see some of those who've had some of the worst experiences when it comes to injuries, when it comes 
 
 to being displaced and having their homes completely destroyed.
 
There are real fears that this truce will not mean very much for them. They will continue to see these airstrikes and shelling on the ground. And of 
 
 course as we know, millions of people have been displaced or rather 1.7 million according to the UN's Humanitarian Office.
 
Many of them are now taking shelter in the south as you saw there. But there are fears that what we could see is Israel's ground incursion, moving 
 
 further southwards, and while the IDF says it is focused and targeting Hamas positions. It is focused on eradicating Hamas's military capabilities 
 
 inside the Gaza Strip. We are seeing civilians paying very high prices for this war. Many injured, many killed and of course, for many their lives 
 
 completely changed forever, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Nada, heartbreaking, heart rendering report there. And to your point about this truce holding and the violence stopping at least for a 
 
 period of days, we're looking at live pictures there.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
As you can see from the Israel Gaza border and that activity, the military activity there in Gaza continues and will likely still continue, it seems 
 
 up until tomorrow morning when this truce begins, we hope. Nada for now thank you, Nada Bashir there from Jerusalem.
 
Now to Qatar's lead negotiator says he hopes the deal pushes the international community to step up the diplomatic efforts to end the 
 
 conflict. Now you'll know from watching this program that Qatar has been a key negotiator in the breakthrough agreement. Mohammed Al-Khulaifi has been 
 
 talking to my colleague Becky Anderson stressing his priority now is to ensure the deal works as intended. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MOHAMMED AL-KHULAIFI, QATARI MINISTER OF STATE: Within the four days pause, in each day, there will be an obligation on each side, an obligation on the 
 
 Israelis and an obligation on Hamas, making sure that they're going to fulfill those obligations in each day. So in each day, we aim to have a 
 
 number of releases because the number is big.
 
So we've managed to get the parties to agree on the releases systematically. In other words, there will be an organized schedule 
 
 allowing the releases in each day and each party is quite familiar now with their obligations.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, we're going to take a quick break. But just ahead Altman's return, OpenAI says it will rehire its Former CEO. The latest twist in this 
 
 week's gripping corporate soap opera, yes good phrase next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "Connect the World". The boardroom drama that gripped the tech community this past week has taken a dramatic new turn. 
 
 Artificial Intelligence Firm OpenAI has reached an agreement to rehire CEO Sam Altman, the man it abruptly fired last Friday.
 
Perhaps not that great a surprise given the majority of OpenAI employees have threatened to resign if Altman was not allowed back, this story is far 
 
 from over yet though. And there are tons of unanswered questions. Anna Stewart joins me now.
 
Anna, we should have taken that back except as we said we were both on the same side. Now how concerning is it though that a technology that the 
 
 industry itself had warned could mean future human extinction was being run by a board of children. And I'm insulting children, perhaps their new board 
 
 for now though.
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: A new board, but one familiar face actually which I was surprised by Adam D'Angelo, who is the CEO of Quora. He was one 
 
 of the Board Members who oversaw the ousting of Sam Altman last week. He remains on that board.
 
You see two new ones though. Bret Taylor and also Larry Summers, Bret Taylor, he is the Former CEO of Salesforce and Larry Summers of course, 
 
 Former U.S. Treasury Secretary. Perhaps that will strengthen some of the communication with the board, and governments and regulators, which of 
 
 course is a huge part of business for OpenAI how to regulate the sector. I'm hoping the revolving door has now come to a standstill. What do you 
 
 think?
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Well, I think they could add more board members. So we'll leave that revolving door spreading. But as far as the CEO is concerned, I think 
 
 perhaps, status quo maintained. Do you think though and this is the broader point about the concerns about the speed of development of AI.
 
That if this board were trying to make a point about their concerns that the point was made, even if it wasn't a great expense and a huge 
 
 embarrassment to the -- to the company, you're laughing, Anna, go and disagree with me.
 
STEWART: I mean, and I rarely do. But I think you're being overly generous to the old board members and their decision. Not least because the 
 
 statement they gave as to why they were firing their CEO with pretty much no communication with any kind of investor.
 
Or at all really was that there was less than candid communication between Sam Altman and the Board IE is a thinly veiled way of saying that the man 
 
 was lying, which certainly gave no detail to what the lies were. It certainly didn't have any support or backup, given almost the entire 
 
 workforce of OpenAI backed him.
 
So unfortunately I don't think it really does help at all. Perhaps on the safety debate though, it's just reinforced the idea that Sam Altman needs 
 
 to be very focused on this. He has been though both sort of governments fair on the public stage, he will have to continue to talk about safety.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I agree. And maybe I was just being cheeky by suggesting that question. Good luck getting on another board. Those guys quite 
 
 frankly, at least for a while. Very quickly, what about Microsoft, though? Because we did see, the Microsoft share price hit a record high on the back 
 
 of this.
 
And you can tell me if you disagree or agree on this one, but I do think it's easier for them to have this whopping rate. What is it $13 billion 
 
 investment that has OpenAI as a private company, rather than under their umbrella as a public company which arguably requires far more scrutiny?
 
STEWART: Yes, the partnership has less headaches to it, certainly for Microsoft. But Microsoft has won in all of this. In all of this mess 
 
 Microsoft has won. It has strengthened the partnership particularly of course with Sam Altman but also the whole workforce who were prepared to 
 
 move to Microsoft at one stage.
 
And also Julia Satya Nadella in the last few days and many interviews said that whatever happens he wants more of a governance role at OpenAI say they 
 
 are never blindsided again. So I look forward to seeing whether they might have a seat on that board but we'll have to keep an eye on it.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, three members for now. Anna Stewart, thank you for that. Now the National Football League is sticking with Elon Musk. The NFL 
 
 condemned hate speech in his statement on Tuesday, but says it won't stop advertising on the X even after Musk agreed with a message that accused 
 
 Jewish communities of hatred against Whites.
 
This comes as major companies like IBM, Apple, Disney and Warner Brothers Discovery, which owns CNN all pulled adverts from X. But as Kristin Fisher 
 
 reports, one client that has not stopped working hand-in-hand with Elon Musk is the U.S. government.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE AND DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The Pentagon is getting in deeper with Elon Musk. Giving Musk's private space 
 
 company SpaceX a contract for up to $1.2 billion to send secretive spy satellites into space. But that's not all.
 
The Pentagon is also investing up to $70 million in Star Shield a more secure version of SpaceX's massive constellation of Starlink satellites, 
 
 which are vital to the Ukraine military success against Russia on the battlefield.
 
BRIG.GEN. PAT RYDER, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: I can confirm that we do contract for Starlink for services and support to Ukraine, with the 
 
 ultimate objective to be ensuring that Ukraine has the satellite communication infrastructure that it needs.
 
FISHER (voice-over): And NASA couldn't send another astronaut to the moon without Elon Musk's company. Musk starship is the most powerful rocket ever 
 
 built and it launched on its second test flight on Saturday. NASA will spend about $4 billion on it, because it will be the lunar lander of the 
 
 Space Agency's flagship Artemis program.
 
It's likely America's only chance to beat China to the moon in this second space race. NASA is also reliant on SpaceX to launch astronauts to the 
 
 International Space Station. For now, no other launch provider other than the Russian government can do it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: SpaceX is on top because they have done the best.
 
FISHER (voice-over): Doug Lavera (ph) was one of the few people who have been a top official at the two government agencies most dependent on Elon 
 
 Musk's companies. And he describes NASA as being much more reliant on SpaceX than the Pentagon.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: SpaceX is predominant right now, but they're by no means the monopoly that we all will depend upon.
 
FISHER (voice-over): Well, the U.S. does have other partners SpaceX has been dependable in a dangerous business which could explain why they 
 
 continue to work with Musk. But the White House has condemned for spreading anti-Semitic messages.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
Last year the United States conducted 78 successful launches and SpaceX was responsible for 61 of them. That's the same number of launches as the 
 
 Chinese government. And nearly eight times the amount of SpaceX's closest U.S. competitor, the United Launch Alliance, a joint venture between Boeing 
 
 and Lockheed Martin.
 
This year SpaceX has already surpassed that record with 85 orbital launches and counting. For now and for the near future the U.S. government's access 
 
 to space is overwhelmingly tide to SpaceX. And a White House Spokesman said Monday that he's "Not aware of any efforts to change that".
 
JOHN KIRBY, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS: There's innovation out there in the private sector that 
 
 will be foolish to walk away from. I'm not aware of any specific efforts to address -- to address our concerns over his rhetoric. But that doesn't mean 
 
 that we accept or agree with or condone in any way that anti-Semitic rhetoric that he pushed.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FISHER (on camera): CNN has reached out to SpaceX so far no comment. As for NASA, it has had plans in place for years to try to reduce its dependency 
 
 on one company. Boeing's long delayed Starliner spacecraft is now expected to take astronauts to the International Space Station sometime next year.
 
And Blue Origin is now developing an alternative lunar lander for the Artemis program. But the problem is neither of them is ready yet. Kristin 
 
 Fisher, CNN, Washington.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, let's get you up to speed with some of the other stories on our radar. A stunning fall from grace; one of the world's most powerful 
 
 Cryptocurrency executives, Changpeng Zhao, the Head of Crypto Exchange Binance is pleading guilty to violating U.S. money laundering laws.
 
He's agreed to step down from the firm and also faces jail time. Binance is also pleading guilty and has agreed to pay more than $4 billion in fines. 
 
 North Korea says its spy satellite will start its mission December 1st. State media there reports the satellite has entered orbit until the first, 
 
 the satellite will undergo what the North Pole's detailed adjustments. "The state media reportedly quotes Leader Kim Jong-Un saying his country now has 
 
 the eyes to go with the fist".
 
And moments ago, Russian President Vladimir Putin addressed the virtual G- 20 Summit hosted by India. This comes after President Putin was absent from the September Summit in Delhi and has not attended any G-20 meetings since 
 
 the onset of the war in Ukraine. He called the war shocking and said it was necessary to think about how to stop the "Tragedy in Ukraine".
 
OK, still to come, Palestinian families waiting for word on the potential release of their loved ones held in Israeli jails. We'll meet one mother 
 
 who's hoping to see her imprisoned daughter at last. Plus a live report from Italy where a capsized migrant boat has ended in tragedy for the 
 
 family of one little girl, that's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: And welcome back to "Connect the World" with me, Julia Chatterley. After nearly seven weeks of war, Israel and Hamas have agreed 
 
 to a temporary truce starting Thursday. But the IDF says it's continuing to target Hamas infrastructure until then.
 
Meanwhile, Israel has published the names of 300 Palestinian prisoners who are eligible for release in exchange for hostages held by Hamas. Legal 
 
 petitions against the release of specific prisoners can be filed to Israel Supreme Court, up to 24 hours from the lists release.
 
In the meantime, Pope Francis met with Palestinian relatives of those held in Israeli prisons, as well as meeting separately with Israeli relatives of 
 
 hostages still held by Hamas. After, he said he heard how both sides are suffering, staying, "We have gone beyond wars. This is not war. This is 
 
 terrorism".
 
Oren Liebermann has been on the ground covering all developments for us. And Oren, I believe you've been tracking news from the IDF. What are they 
 
 saying at this moment?
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, shortly after we've been covering all of this, we got notification that there was a red alert near Eilat, 
 
 which is the southern tip of Israel. And that notification just a moment ago that an IDF fighter jet intercepted a cruise missile, headed towards 
 
 the city of Eilat that likely fired from the Houthis in Yemen, who have claimed responsibility for other missile attacks, headed for southern 
 
 Israel and have said they will continue to do so.
 
And the reason this is interesting is, because they're not a party to this truce agreement and this pause in the fighting. So we'll see. And it'll be 
 
 very interesting to see if after 10 o'clock tomorrow morning, when the pause and fighting goes into effect, the Houthis in Yemen abide by that?
 
Or do they continue to fire missiles at southern Israel? What about on the northern border, where we have seen a tremendous amount of continued 
 
 fighting between Hezbollah in Lebanon and Israel, they're also not a party to this agreement.
 
So it'll be very interesting to follow the other fronts of Israel and see whether the pause in Gaza for four days affects the northern border, the 
 
 southern border, and even frankly, Syria. That's another dynamic to all of this unfolding here.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and as you said, we have no details on how that will be handled during that truce period. So it's very important to continue to 
 
 watch this. Oren, in the meantime, I want to ask you about the list of 300 names that the Israelis have produced of Palestinian prisoners that are 
 
 eligible for release.
 
And that consultation period of 24 hours where if people want to say, look, I don't want that person released, for whatever reason, they can raise 
 
 their hand. Are we expecting any objections with the Supreme Court for any of those potential releases? Or no one likely to step up and complain given 
 
 how important it is to see the subsequent release of the 50 hostages that Hamas still hold?
 
LIEBERMANN: There are some reports coming out now in Israeli media that there has been the first report filed against the deal itself, we'll see if 
 
 that holds, frankly, we'll see if the Supreme Court even agrees to consider it. And if they simply kick this down the road or if they simply kick this 
 
 down the road to the point where it's no longer relevant, the deal moves through.
 
And then they're considering this petition in the days and weeks that follow here so not a surprise that there is somebody filing a petition 
 
 against the deal here. We also expect it, for example, in the full cabinet meeting last night, that there will be some far right members of the 
 
 government who voted against it, and they did.
 
But in the end that didn't stop this deal from moving forward. And that's exactly what we expect it to happen. On the list of 300 Palestinian 
 
 prisoners, women and children that Israel released earlier today. We went through that list. It's worth noting that there are 33 women on that list.
 
The vast majority are men between the ages of 16 and 18. There are some as young as 14. The list also says what they're being held for. And many of 
 
 them are held for what are considered relatively minor offenses throwing stones, transfer of weapons, illegally crossing the border, harming 
 
 regional security and other charges like that.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
We did see a couple charges of attempted murder there. But the vast majority is these sort of smaller charges. So it's not too much of a 
 
 surprise that Israel put this out there and said, look, this is who we're willing to release in terms of how they're picked off of that list.
 
That part remains unclear, just as it does on the flip side, which picks the 50 Israeli hostages that are released, that will have to become clear 
 
 here sometime in the next few hours as this plays out rather quickly.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, we're going to talk all about this under the contours of this deal with the Human Rights Watch in the next hour. But for now, Oren 
 
 Liebermann in Tel Aviv, thank you for that. You're watching "Connect the World". There's more news ahead, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back. The Pentagon is giving more details about an attack by Iran backed militants on an airbase in Iraq on Monday. The U.S. 
 
 Defense Department says a close range ballistic missile was used against U.S. and coalition forces. It's the first time such a missile has been used 
 
 against U.S. forces since the recent unrest broke out more than a month ago. Natasha Bertrand has more.
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Iran-backed militias fired a close range ballistic missile at U.S. and coalition forces at Al-
 
 Asad Airbase in Iraq on Monday according to the Pentagon, marking a significant escalation in the ongoing attacks on U.S. forces across the 
 
 region.
 
In response, a U.S. military aircraft killed several of the militants that the U.S. says were responsible for that attack by firing on a vehicle that 
 
 the militants were traveling in near that airbase. The U.S. for this attack used a U.S. AC-130 gunship, which is capable of firing artillery at ground 
 
 based targets. And officials say that the strike was done in self-defense.
 
But the attack on Al-Asad brings the total number of Iran-backed strikes on U.S. and coalition forces in Iraq and Syria to over 60 since October 17th. 
 
 The attacks have injured dozens of service members, leaving over two dozen of them with traumatic brain injuries. The U.S. meanwhile, they have 
 
 responded to these attacks three separate times before including by launching airstrikes on Iranian weapons and training facilities inside 
 
 Syria.
 
And the U.S. has urged Iran directly to rein in the militias. But the group's they still have not been deterred and the attacks have continued 
 
 almost daily since last month. Even so, the Pentagon sees its approach as working for now, because they say the war between Israel and Hamas has not 
 
 spilled over into a wider regional conflict, particularly one that involves the Iran-backed militant group Hezbollah.
 
But the ballistic missile attack on Al-Assad, it really marked a clear escalation this week. And one, the U.S. has been working very hard to 
 
 avoid. Natasha Bertrand, CNN, Washington.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Now crammed capsized boat off the coast of Italy has ended in tragedy. The Italian coast guard says they recovered the body of a two-
 
 year-old girl near Lampedusa late Monday night. They're still searching for several others who are reportedly missing.
 
Now while the Coast Guard was in the area, they rescued a large migrant boat carrying more than 570 people. According to the migrant U.N. agency, 
 
 more than 2000 people have died or went missing in the year to date while attempting this journey.
 
And let's bring in Barbie Nadeau who's good and following the story from Rome. Barbie, good to have you with us, what more do we know about those 
 
 that are missing and of course the family of this young girl?
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN REPORTER: Yes, you know, it is just one more tragedy and a never ending tragedy. Now these people were rescued from the rocks off 
 
 the tiny island of Lampedusa. Well, we understand as they were on a boat not from Tunisia, as we've seen all summer but from Libya, which is a much 
 
 longer journey.
 
And they're still searching for anyone who might still be out there in the water likely not survivors at this point, because the seas are very, very 
 
 rough. We know that the little two-year-old girl, the body that they found lifeless body that they pulled on to the rescue vessel, they worked and 
 
 worked -- to try to revive her, but they had no luck.
 
Her parent's condition or whereabouts yet unknown they were able to take a lot of people off the rocks off this tiny island and bring them into a 
 
 safer shelter. Meantime, while this rescue was going on, another boat with 570 people were found listing off Lampedusa in the Italian search and 
 
 rescue waters.
 
They were able to help that boat into the harbor of Lampedusa. They were not able to move the people off that listing boat onto their coast guard 
 
 vessels or the Navy vessels because the sea was just too rough. You know, it's late November here.
 
This is the Mediterranean Sea people who always think of as docile. It's really much more like an ocean this time of year, the waves are very high. 
 
 It's a very deep body of water and it's very dangerous as we see one more time. Now Italy has received more than 150,000 people by boat this year so 
 
 far. That's a record for this time of the year. And it's likely to be a record when the -- comes to end, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: And Barbie Nadeau in Rome there. Thank you so much for that report. Now we'll be back at the top of the next hour with more "Connect 
 
 the World". But for now, "World Sport" is up next. So stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END