Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: 40 Million People Under Winter Weather Alerts in U.S.; Blinken Calls for Calm Between Palestinians and Israelis; New Details in Tyre Nichols' Death; Pakistan Mosque Blast Killed 92 People, Injured Dozens More. Aired 4:00-4:30a ET

Aired January 31, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Bianca Nobilo. 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Max Foster joining you live from London. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Frigid temperatures are blasting their way across the nation's midsection. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have a feeling, flights might get canceled and low and behold, flights got canceled. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was a police lynching. And we have to call out the severity. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Every individual who showed up on the scene should be immediately terminated. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Somehow this attack getting through multiple lines of security to hit a mosque that is typically attended by members of law enforcement. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is particularly abhorrent that such an attack occurred at a place of worship.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo. 
 
FOSTER: It is Tuesday January 31st, 9 a.m. here in London, 3 a.m. in the central U.S.
 
Where about 40 million people from Texas to West Virginia will see dangerous winter conditions. It's already causing havoc for travelers across the country. 
 
NOBILO: The multi-state winter storm stretches about 1500 miles. It's going to bring snow, ice and below freezing temperatures and will come in multiple waves today into Wednesday. 
 
FOSTER: Arkansas has already declared a state of emergency and activated the Arkansas National Guard in anticipation of hazardous road conditions. Nearly 1000 flights have are ready been canceled today -- according to FlightAware. And an equal number were canceled on Monday. 
 
NOBILO: Once again, Southwest Airlines saw a majority of the cancellations as Texas is forecasting to get hit hard by the severe weather. The state has opened shelters for anyone stuck outside during the storm. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANIEL ROBY, CEO, AUSTIN STREET CENTER: Now so often what we see is there are people who are outside that have died on the streets due to freezing temperatures. And you know, we're not willing to let that happen. 
 
And we're just going to make sure that people know that they have access to this. And we typically find people take us up on our offer. Nobody wants to be outside in freezing temperatures. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Meanwhile, AAA warning those who planned to drive, to be cautious on the roads. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANIEL ARMBRUSTER, AAA TEXAS SPOKESPERSON: Give yourself enough time and enough space between you and the vehicle in front of you. Often what we see when we see a car in the ditch in these winter weather situations, it's a driver who was into much of a hurry. They were going too fast and did not give themselves enough time to react. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: And if you have to hit the road today or tomorrow, here is what AAA says you should do before driving. Check the car battery, check the tire pressure. Make sure you have at least half a tank of gas. And make sure to charge you cell phone. 
 
The family of Tyre Nichols will hold a news conference tonight in Memphis Tennessee. It's scheduled to take place at the church where the Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. gave his famous, I've been to the mountaintop speech. 
 
FOSTER: Nichols, who's been to death by police earlier this month will be laid to rest on Wednesday. Two emergency medical technicians and the fire department determined had been fired for failing to conduct an adequate assessment on Nichols. And the prosecutor saying criminal charges may be coming. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) STEVE MULROY, SHELBY COUNTY, TENNESSEE DISTRICT ATTORNEY: We are in fact looking at everybody. You're looking at the officer that was at the first scene that did not go to the second scene. We are looking at the fire department personnel who arrived afterwards. We're looking even at people who were doing the paperwork later on. We are looking at everything. Nothing is being ruled out. But we need to ask for patients you know, the three weeks is an extraordinary short time to do any kind of investigation into charges. But for these more and direct persons, I think it's going to take a little bit longer. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: We've learned two more Memphis police officers were removed from duty after the beating death of Nichols. It's unclear why their punishments weren't announced soon. 
 
FOSTER: Only one of them. Preston Hemphill, has been publicly identified. CNN's Nick Valencia has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Seven Memphis police officers have now been relieved of duty in the Tyre Nichols investigation. Including the officer wearing this body camera, identified by Memphis police as Officer Preston Hemphill. Hemphill can be seen firing his Taser at Nichols following the initial traffic stop on January 7th.
 
After Nichols takes off running with other officers chasing him, Hemphill is heard on his body camera saying --
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
PRESTON HEMPHILL, MEMPHIS POLICE OFFICER: I hope they stop his ass.
 
VALENCIA: A source confirms, Hemphill seen here, receiving a certificate for 40 hours of skill training from the Memphis Crisis Intervention team was also a member of the now disbanded SCORPION unit, but he is not been charged like the five former officers now facing second degree murder. Hemphill's lawyer says his client never went to the second scene where the beating occurred and that he is cooperating with the investigation.
 
Attorneys for Nichols family released a statement today saying in part: The news today from Memphis officials that Officer Preston Hemphill was reportedly relieved of duty weeks ago, but not yet terminated or charged, is extremely disappointing. Why is his identity, and the role he played in Tyre's death, just now coming to light?
 
According to a spokeswoman for the Shelby County D.A.'s office, all officers and first responders who were at the scene of Nichols's arrest are being looked at for possible charges.
 
STEVE MULROY, SHELBY COUNTY, TENNESSEE DISTRICT ATTORNEY: We're extraordinarily quick, within less than three weeks we went from the incident to a filing charges of against the five officers who are primarily responsible for the death of Tyre Nichols and who were on the scene. Now as to everybody else, it's going to take some time as we do that investigation. But I assure you, the investigation is ongoing.
 
VALENCIA (voice-over): And the disturbing footage released Friday by the police, you can see Nichols being beaten with a baton. He is also punched and kicked, all the while, his hands remain restrained behind his back. In the video, you can see other officers standing around after the beating.
 
TYRE NICHOLS, 29-YEAR-OLD: Mom!
 
VALENCIA (voice-over): His mother also reacting to the moment in the video were Nichols can be heard yelling for her.
 
ROWVAUGH WELLS, TYRE NICHOLS' MOTHER: As the mother, you want to be there protect your child. And for me to hear he was calling my name, and I didn't hear him, or I wasn't there to protect him. It just hurts me to my core.
 
VALENCIA: We reached out to the Memphis Police Department to ask why we are just now hearing about the sixth and seventh officer, if they were put on administrative leave weeks ago, along with the others who were charged. 
 
The Memphis Police Department did not directly respond to that question but did send us a statement which read in part that they are committed to transparency. And that we should expect more personnel actions in the coming days. 
 
Meanwhile, the funeral for Tyre Nichols is planned for Wednesday morning. The Reverend Al Sharpton is expected to give the eulogy in what will no doubt be an emotional day for the Nichols family. 
 
Nick Valencia, CNN, Atlanta.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FOSTER: One Memphis city council members saying that just because an officer is relieved of duty does not mean he has been fired. He and the Nichols family attorney agree that more needs to be done to send a message and prevent a repeat of this tragedy. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
J.B. SMILEY JR., MEMPHIS CITY COUNCIL: I think every officer, every law enforcement officer, every EMT and every individual who showed up on the scene should be immediately terminated. But just because they violated the policy, that does not necessarily mean criminal culpability. And that's up to the prosecutor, the district attorney to decide. But as it relates to changing in the sense of culture, I think it's necessary in order to move forward as a community. That every individual who showed up to this event. Mr. Hempfield especially. 
 
ANTONIO ROMANUCCI, ATTORNEY FOR TYRE NICHOLS' FAMILY: Everybody on the scene was complicit in this man's death. In one way, shape or form or another somebody failed Tyre Nichols. They either failed him by using excessive force. They failed him by severely beating him. They failed him by not intervening. They failed him by not rendering aid. 
 
I think charges are warranted and here's why. We know what his words where that they wanted to stop him. I won't say the whole phrase for the benefit of the viewers. But he said, I hope somebody stops him. Clearly, I looked at that as an ignition source. He was somebody, if he has any command position at all. Which we do not know yet that if he does. But if he has an command position at all on that scene, that would be considered in order. And if that somebody is ordering a stop, we really have a problem with the whole system. We really see what's called ratification here. 
 
This unit thought that it could work with impunity. And that they would operate under a code of silence amongst all of them. So there is no doubt that criminal charges would be warranted against this individual. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Meanwhile, on Capitol Hill, prospects for bipartisan talks on overhauling police laws remain low. The Congressional black caucus and the NAACP are calling for action. Senate negotiators were close to deal back in 2021 but hopes have faded with the divided Congress and presidential election on the horizon. The issue of changing qualified immunity for police officers, making it easier to sue them in civil court, remains a key sticking point. 
 
FOSTER: Police meanwhile are advertising a reward of up to $5,000 for anyone with information that would lead to the arrest of the suspects responsible for a mass shooting in Lincoln, Florida. 
 
NOBILO: Ten people were shot and two were in critical condition on Monday. 
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
And officials say it was a targeted attack. The police chief described the shooting to reporters. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF SAM TAYLOR, LAKELAND POLICE DEPARTMENT: It is a four door, dark blue, Nissan with dark tinted windows and a temporary tag. 
 
The vehicle slowed. It did not stop. And the four windows went down. It appears it was occupied by four shooters in the vehicle. And they started firing from all four windows of the vehicle. And shooting males on both sides of the street. This is something that doesn't happen in Lakeland. I've been 34 years I can tell you I have never worked an event where this many people have been shot at one time. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: There is a another case of escaped animals at the Dallas Zoo. Once again, zoo officials think that humans have had a hand in it. 
 
FOSTER: Yes, two emperor tamarin monkeys are missing. Experts say, they normally stick close to home but they haven't been located. Police believe the monkeys were indeed stolen. 
 
NOBILO: It's Dumbledore for the monkeys, they would look like that. 
 
Earlier this month, the clouded leopard escape from her enclosure at the same zoo. And she was eventually found unharmed on zoo property. The zoo is working with Dallas police to increase security. It seems worrying based on these escapes. 
 
FOSTER: Absolutely. 
 
The White House says President Joe Biden plans to end the national and public health emergencies COVID-19 on the 11th of May. Officials say the deadline is being extended one last time to give states health care providers and patients enough not time for an orderly transition. 
 
NOBILO: The announcement came in response to a pair of bills from Republican lawmakers seeking to end the emergencies. They have given Americans access to free COVID tests, treatments and vaccines, as well as other benefits. 
 
And the CDC says that 2021 was an important year for new births in the United States with about 50,000 more babies born than the year before. And it is part of a new report claiming 2021 was the first year that U.S. births showed a positive spike since 2008. But it was also a record year for preterm births. 
 
FOSTER: Because everyone was at home? 
 
NOBILO: I mean, you'd think so, yes. 
 
FOSTER: The report noted the average age of a new mother in the U.S. was 27 years old -- a record high. But pregnant women were also nearly four times more likely to be admitted to an ICU if they had become infected with COVID-19. 
 
Now in the next hour, the U.S. Secretary of State will meet with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to try to help defuse tensions between Israelis and Palestinians. 
 
NOBILO: A short time ago, Antony Blinken held talks with Israel's defense minister and its opposition leader. And on Monday, he also met with the country's Prime Minister. Benjamin Netanyahu. At a joint news conference, Secretary Blinken urged all sides to restore calm. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: We continue to believe the best way to achieve it through preserving and then realize the vision of two states. As I've said to the Prime Minister, anything that moves us away from that vision is in our judgment, detrimental to Israel's longtime security and its long-term identity as a Jewish and democratic state. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Blinken's trip comes as the region faces a new wave of deadly violence. On Monday, the funeral was held for a Palestinian man who was reportedly shot by Israeli troops in the West Bank. The Palestinian Health Ministry says that so far in January, at least 35 Palestinians in the area have been killed by Israeli military and settler fire. Making this the deadliest month in the West Bank since 2015. 
 
NOBILO: And last week, seven people were killed near a Jerusalem synagogue in what Israel called one of the worst terror attacks in recent years. 
 
CNN's Nic Robertson joins us now from the West Bank. Nic, so Anthony Blinken urging both sides to take urgent steps to restore calm. What kind of steps is he suggesting and what is the likelihood that will help ease this volatile situation? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, I think I was able to catch a question there. Look, Secretary Blinken is coming here. Hopes in Ramallah -- where we are in the West Bank -- are not particular high at the moment. They aren't high that Secretary of State Antony Blinken can make a difference. Not particularly high that their own leadership. President of the Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas can make a difference. 
 
Very likely Secretary Blinken will be asking him to restart the security cooperation with Israel. That's an important step. The United States believes, because that will help to ease tensions. They believe it works and is helpful for both sides. 
 
But equally, Antony Blinken is likely to hear from the Palestinian Authority that they would like pressure on Israel to not go ahead with settlement expansion and to curtail their incursions into the cities here in the West Bank. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
These are issues that are live issues here for people. But when you talk to people here, although they do not have a great expectation that Antony Blinken can make a difference with this visit, they do hope and believe that there is still a possibility of what he was talking about their, the importance of a two state solution. And they really believe that the only way that that can come about is through the international communities legitimization and legitimizing what Palestinians want. That means international pressure on Israel and support for Palestinians. That's I would say the principled view from here. 
 
But I have to say, the weather today, it is cold, it is wet, it is miserable and that really is a metaphor for expectations nobody expects very much here. 
 
NOBILO: Nic Robertson, thank you. And still ahead, Pakistan is grappling with the aftermath of a deadly
 
 bombing at a mosque. As the death toll continues to rise -- we'll have a live update for you. 
 
And there are new indication that the special counsel could be taking an aggressive approach, in the classified documents investigation involving a former President, Donald Trump. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
FOSTER: Well, one of the biggest TV stars in the late 1970s and 80s has died. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CINDY WILLIAMS AND PENNY MARSHALL, LAVERNE AND SHIRLEY: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Schlemiel! Schlimazel! Hasenpfeffer Incorporated!
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Cindy Williams played Shirley Feeney in the sitcom "Laverne &amp; Shirley," the Happy Days spin-off ran for 8 season. 
 
NOBILO: Her children say that she passed away after a short illness. Williams career spanned 6 decades on stage and screen including role in the critically acclaimed, 1973, film "American Graffiti." Cindy Williams was 75. 
 
In Pakistan, the death toll is climbing after a deadly bombing in the northwestern city of Peshawar. Officials say that it least 92 people were killed after a bomb ripped through a mosque located inside a police compound on Monday. 
 
FOSTER: Still unclear who's behind the blast. But Pakistan's Prime Minister says terrorists wanted to create fear. Now let's go to CNN's Sophia Saifi live in Islamabad. And there's concern that the figure can go up because so many were injured too. 
 
SOPHIA SAIFI, CNN PRODUCER: Yes, Max, I mean it's been a very, very long 24 hours here in Pakistan. Many families spent the entire night bearing their loved ones because the state of the bodies recovered from the rubble of the mosque was in such a bad state that they had to be buried immediately. And those funerals are still underway here in Pakistan. 
 
I mean, this is a horrific such a deja vu for the people of Peshawar specifically who have seen very many militant attacks over the past couple years. But hadn't in the past 5-6 years. There have been a decrease in militant attacks in Peshawar and in the north of Pakistan. That has increased since the fall of Kabul in 2021. 
 
The Pakistani government has accused the Afghan Taliban for harboring the Pakistani Taliban, the Tehreek-e-Taliban, some of whom have claimed responsibility for this attack that took place in Peshawar yesterday. 
 
This horrific suicide blasts, which we're hearing is probable from authorities. We were told that from the eyewitnesses that we spoke to that, as soon as the call to prayer started, there was a loud blast, a huge burst of flames and then the ceiling caved in. So, there were rescue efforts underway, amongst that rubble throughout the night and into the morning today. 
 
But we've spoken to the rescue officials in Peshawar, we are being told that, unfortunately, they're only recovering dead bodies now. So, there's a high number of dead, a high number of people injured, and a real sense of fear has returned in Pakistan in the first time in Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif saying that terrorism is again, the biggest threat to Pakistan's national security at the moment -- Max. 
 
FOSTER: Sofia Saifi there, thank you so much. Horrific numbers there, going up all the time. 
 
NOBILO: Residents of Auckland, New Zealand are being warned about more heavy rain, this days after the highest daily rainfall ever reported in the city. At least four people are reported dead in the country amid dangerous floods and landslides on the north island. The state of emergency has been initiated for Auckland. Beaches are off-limits, several main roads are closed and all Auckland schools will remain shut until February 7.
 
The new Prime Minister Chris Hipkins, called the floods a 1-100-year event and said that helping Auckland recover is the government's focus. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS HIPKINS, NEW ZEALAND PRIME MINISTER: My focus and the focus of central government is supporting Auckland through, what is still, you know, a bit challenging ahead of them. There's a big cleanup to go. And, of course, and we know through the forecast, that there's more bad weather ahead.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Hipkins first big test as Prime Minister as well, just very recently taking over from Jacinda Ardern. 
 
FOSTER: He was the guy that oversaw the pandemic, COVID response. 
 
NOBILO: Yes, so he was health minister and COVID response. 
 
FOSTER: So, he seen as a savior of hands in crisis. 
 
NOBILO: Yes, and he's a familiar face. And the polls of have actually gone up already since Ardern's departure. 
 
FOSTER: OK, a new study using artificial intelligence, found the planet could cross critical global warming threshold sooner than current models are predicting. Under the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement, countries have pledged to limit global warning below 2 degrees. NOBILO: But the study shows that earth could reach 1.5 degrees
 
 Celsius, of warning above preindustrial levels within a decade. They also found an 80 percent probability that global temperatures could cross the 2 degrees threshold before 2065. 
 
Letting infants watch tablets, phones or television maybe impairing their academic achievement and emotional wall being later in life. 
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
That is according to a new study, published in the journal JAMA Pediatrics. Researchers found that the increased use of screen time during infancy was associated with poor and mental processes like planning, focusing, attention and remembering instructions once the child was 9 years old. Doctors at John Hopkins University says that there's no substitute for adult interaction, modeling and teaching. 
 
FOSTER: Anything a good measure there surely. 
 
NOBILO: Perhaps, but although they do seem to indicate that the more a child can use imagination growing up. So, simpler toys that are less distracting and immersive. 
 
FOSTER: And it is just so engrossing, isn't it? It's so stimulating than other sort of traditional ways of playing become boring. 
 
NOBILO: Also, impairing eyesight. As my optician was telling on the weekend. Now they have all the stats. So it's making it much more heightened.
 
FOSTER: Yes. U.S. Congress, getting up close and personal with TikTok. The company's CEO is set to testify before the House Energy and Emergency Committee in March. He's expected to talk about TikTok's privacy and data practices as well as address its current relationship to the Chinese Communist Party. That's according to the committee website. Some U.S. officials have raised concerns about Beijing using the social media app for its own intelligence purposes. A spokesperson for TikTok says, they look forward to setting the record straight. 
 
The debate over America's national debt, meanwhile the top House Republicans getting ready to meet with the U.S. president. But it could be quite a while before they actually reach a deal. 
 
NOBILO: Plus, in France, anger is building over plans to raise the retirement age. And nationwide strike are likely to cause quite a few headaches, when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM, I'm Max Foster. If you are just joining us, let me bring you up to date with our top stories this hour. 
 <br>[04:30:00]