Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Lisa Marie Presley, Daughter Of Elvis Presley, Dead At 54. Aired 4-5a ET

Aired January 13, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN HOST: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and everywhere around the world. I'm Bianca Nobilo.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN HOST: I'm Max Foster joining you live from London just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: CNN has learned that Lisa Marie Presley, the only daughter of Elvis Presley has died.
 
MERRICK GARLAND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: I'm here today to announce the appointment of Robert Hur as a special counsel for President Biden the dramatic escalation of a perilous moment. It was in the public interest to appoint a special counsel.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We had to run. Everybody jumped on top of each other close, you all hear me? Loud when I say we bless, we are blessed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: It's Friday, January 13 9 AM here in London, where many people around the world are mourning the loss of Lisa Marie Presley. Elvis's only child.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
NOBILO: Here she is singing I love you because in a duet with the recording of her father, the King of Rock and Roll. Lisa Marie followed in his footsteps becoming a musician, singer and songwriter in her own right.
 
FOSTER: She released three albums in her career, one of which reached gold on the charts. CNN's John Lawrence has more now on the life of Lisa Marie Presley.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOHN LAURENCE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Lisa Marie Presley seen here at the Golden Globes Tuesday passed away Thursday. She was rushed to the hospital after suffering cardiac arrest. Her mother Priscilla Presley issued a statement saying that she and her family are shocked and devastated and are asking for privacy at this time.
 
Elvis Presley's only child, Lisa Marie was nine-years-old when the king died in 1977.
 
LISA MARIE PRESLEY, DAUGHTER OF ELVIS PRESLEY: The casket was there, they were coming through when they were - there was a line. And I just remember sitting on the stairwell not knowing what to do with that, because it was so massive that I couldn't do it on my own yet.
 
LAURENCE: But Lisa Marie later followed in her father's famous footsteps and released her debut album, to whom it may concern in 2003.
 
PRESLEY: I'm not happy with myself unless I'm contributing to mankind people. So, I'm not a self-centered. I'm not a self-absorbed person who's trying to be sexy, cute, naked and running around dancing. And you know, being top of the charts. That's not my deal.
 
LAURENCE: Presley released two more records in 2005 and 2012.
 
PRESLEY: I have been a huge music lover. It's always had a huge impact on me. I want to write. I want to sing; I want to do the same thing for others. Have my music hopefully do that for others one day.
 
LAURENCE: Lisa Marie Presley was 54-years-old. I'm John Lawrence reporting.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Film and entertainment journalist Sandro Monetti joins us now from Los Angeles. Sandro, thank you so much for joining us. Given that Lisa Marie's father was one of the most if not the most iconic musician of all time, she did chart her own course, she became a musician and that can't have been easy for her knowing that this gigantic legacy was looming over her throughout her entire life.
 
SANDRO MONETTI, FILM AND ENTERTAINMENT JOURNALIST: Talk about big shoes to fill, but also talking of legacy I think Lisa Marie did so much to keep her father's memory alive and make him an icon. She inherited Graceland. She ran Elvis Presley Enterprises for a number of years before divesting herself of that in 2005. And right up to the end, she was celebrating the life of her father last Sunday on what would have been Elvis's birthday. She was at Graceland surrounded by adoring fans.
 
Just on Tuesday, I saw her at the Golden Globe Awards where she was celebrating the award-winning movie, Elvis. And those of us who love this family know that we can take some comfort from the fact that she was happy in her final days, celebrating her dad her legacy and being around so many loved ones.
 
FOSTER: And that's one of the saddest parts of stories that her mother had to announce her daughter's death. So, it's Priscilla Presley now is it - is custodian of the brand as it were in keeping Elvis's memory alive?
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
MONETTI: The public custodian of the brand, yes, certainly. Even though the rights and images have been sold off years ago, but Priscilla, you know, I've met several times, and she's done a wonderful job at this. And yes, no mother should go through this. I mean, the prayers and thoughts will be with her around the world, one of the nicest people I've ever met, in ever, I would say, and yes, my heartbreaks for her.
 
NOBILO: And Hollywood and the industry are reeling because her death has come as a shock, what tributes are pouring in?
 
MONETTI: Well, among the tributes are one from her third husband, actor Nicolas Cage, and I think he got it right when he said, of Lisa Marie, she lit up every room she walked into, she really did. John Travolta among other stars paying tribute. Here in Hollywood, it's hit us with so much surprise, not least because so many of us saw her just this week at the Golden Globe Awards. And you know that movie Elvis is just fantastic. And she was so pleased to see Austin Butler win the Golden Globe for Best Actor, because she was saying when she saw that film, it took her five days to get over it because even though she's seen every Elvis impersonation, you can imagine. She said that nobody had got her father's spirit, essence and voice quite as right as Austin Butler did.
 
And she was so proud and so happy to be at his side representing that movie the other night. And, yes, it really keeps Elvis's memory alive. But just days later, we have more heartbreak and tragedy for this iconic family.
 
FOSTER: People that follow her story be aware of her son committing suicide, which is something that she did speak about, didn't she - tell us about her children and who she survived by?
 
MONETTI: Well, you're referring to her son, Benjamin, who took his own life at age 27 in 2020. Absolutely devastating. How does any mother get over, over that? She also has three daughters, who she doted on, including Riley Keough, very much a rising star actress as well. I reflect that so many of these people who are born to fame, wealth, and privilege, life doesn't always turn out to be sunshine and rainbows for them. And such is the case with Lisa Marie, who was well as highlights had her fair share of heartbreak as well, four divorces.
 
But you know, her fans always sustained her. Her family sustained her. She loved her kids. She was a great person, and this is a devastating loss.
 
NOBILO: And Sandro, you said that you had seen her at the Golden Globes so recently, and she was a lovely person. Are there any stories about her that you think typify who she was?
 
MONETTI: You know, I remember sort of mentioning once the first time I ever met her, saying that I've been to Graceland. And I'd actually stayed at the Heartbreak Hotel, which is actually down at the end of Lonely Street. It's not there anymore. But I remember sort of laughing with her about how bizarre this was to be that this lyric had inspired this actual hotel, and this special place.
 
And I told her, even though Elvis never played in England, how much he was loved there, and she knew it. And she's heard all these stories before. And so, as her mother Priscilla, but it was great to sort of enforce always, every time I saw them, how much a father was loved how much a family has loved and I think as the family sort of deals with this, if it's any comfort at all, she and the rest of his family are very adored all around the world, and there'll be a lot of people with broken hearts today.
 
FOSTER: Sandro Monetti, thank you so much for your insight on this tragedy. Thank you.
 
MONETTI: Privilege.
 
NOBILO: The death toll has risen to seven in the southeastern United States after a series of ferocious storms swept through the region Thursday, this morning about 35 possible tornadoes in Alabama, Georgia and Kentucky.
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
FOSTER: At least six of the deaths were in Alabama and several up, 20 homes were damaged or destroyed in one--
 
NOBILO: Weather service says one Twister was likely on the ground for at least 50 miles. The strong winds and rain knocked down powerlines, sent debris flying and ripped off rooftops. Listen to what some residents in Alabama had to say about the storm.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEBORAH BROWN, TORNADO SURVIVOR: We had to (inaudible) office, looking at vehicle, we worried about them. It didn't go for destruction and the lord for blessing all in us (inaudible) lord, we could have been gone. We had to run. Everybody jumped on top of each other (inaudible), you all hear me? Lord when I say we're blessed, we are blessed. Lord, have mercy. Oh, my god (inaudible). Oh my god.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Well, over in Georgia, a five-year-old boy was killed south of Atlanta when a tree fell on the car that he was in. West of Atlanta, a wall was torn off, a warehouse complex and we have some good news though. To report about 15 students who have been stranded in schools because the storm has made the streets impossible, they have now been reunited with their parents (Technical Difficulty) [00:00:48] has more on the tornado outbreak.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, my God. ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The National Weather Service confirming a large and extremely dangerous tornado tore through the Selma, Alabama area Thursday afternoon, leaving behind a trail of destruction. Homes and businesses have been torn apart and roads completely cut off by piles of debris. Selma's Mayor's Office posting on Facebook that the city has suffered significant damage.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Structural damage, trees down, power lines down and the area is very difficult to access due to debris. They are working house-to-house and area-to-area looking for people who might be entrapped and those who are injured.
 
ROSALES: Tornado reports are growing across the South. In Mississippi, Georgia and Central Kentucky, more devastation left behind.
 
JOHN GORDON, NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY: We had a horrible line of storms early this morning. Right here, it's 100 miles an hour. You see debris going to the north, east and southeasterly direction. There were a few two by fours embedded in the ground, lot of glass and roof citing.
 
ROSALES: Weather experts surveying the damage say winter tornado outbreaks are especially worrisome for them.
 
GORDON: I worry more about storms in November through February than I do in the spring. Every time it's warm in the cool season is the worst time.
 
ROSALES: I'm Isabel Rosales reporting.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Officials are now blaming the human factor for Wednesday's meltdown of the U.S. air travels.
 
FOSTER: Computer database that provides pre-flight information to pilots and according to a preliminary FAA analysis, it was damaged because some personnel failed to follow procedure.
 
NOBILO: The incident delayed more than 10,000 flights and cause a nationwide grounds drop for all departing flights for about 90 minutes. A government source told CNN the computer system in question is 30-years-old, and it's at least six years away from an upgrade.
 
FOSTER: More classified documents are being found this time in the U.S. President's private home in Delaware. And now the U.S. Attorney General has appointed a special counsel to investigate the circumstances.
 
NOBILO: Robert Hur will head up the investigation. He's a former U.S. attorney who worked in the Trump Administration. The Biden legal team says this was all just a mistake and that all but one of the newly discovered materials were stored in the president's garage with one document in an adjacent room.
 
FOSTER: The public was told nothing about any of this until this week, even though most of the documents were found in November and December. CNN's Phil Mattingly lays out the timeline of the investigation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GARLAND: I'm here today to announce the appointment of Robert Hur as a special counsel.
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: For President Biden, the dramatic escalation of a perilous moment.
 
GARLAND: It was in the public interest to appoint a special counsel.
 
MATTINGLY: Attorney General Merrick Garland appointing former U.S. Attorney Robert Hur as special counsel to investigate the possible mishandling of classified documents and revealing a lot more detail about an issue, Biden and his lawyers kept quiet for weeks and have desperately tried to manage since the story broke four days ago.
 
JOE BIDEN (D), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: People know I take classified documents and classified material seriously
 
MATTINGLY: A special counsel announcement coming after Biden second public statement about a second set of classified documents found at a second location.
 
BIDEN: As part of that process, my lawyers reviewed other places where documents in my - from my time as vice president were stored and they finished the review last night. They discovered a small number of documents of classified markings in storage areas and file cabinets in my home, in my personal library.
 
MATTINGLY: But Garland's detailed timeline underscore that at the time of Biden's first statement on the issue earlier this week.
 
BIDEN: We're cooperating fully, cooperating fully with the review and which I hope will be finished soon.
 
MATTINGLY: His lawyers had been aware of the second set of documents discovered at his Wilmington home for nearly a month. It's a timeline that started with the November 2nd discovery of 10 classified documents in a former think-tank office, which led Garland to appoint U.S. Attorney John Lausch to investigate the matter less than two weeks later, on December 20th, more documents discovered.
 
GARLAND: President Biden's personal counsel informed Mr. Lausch that additional documents bearing classification markings are identified in the garage or the president's private residence in Wilmington, Delaware.
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
MATTINGLY: All key factors for what Lausch would recommend to Garland last week.
 
GARLAND: On January 5, 2023. Mr. Lausch briefed me on the results of his initial investigation, and advise me that further investigation by a special counsel was warranted. MATTINGLY: A recommendation that came four days before the initial discovery of classified documents leaked. And before days of White House statements that intentionally avoided key details or obfuscated key matters all together, in part out of an effort to avoid this very moment sources said and to follow strict limits set by his lawyers.
 
BIDEN: I'm going to get a chance to speak on all of this god willing soon.
 
MATTINGLY: As a due diligence search for any more documents was still ongoing.
 
GARLAND: This morning, President Biden's personal counsel called Mr. Lausch and stated that an additional document bearing classification markings was identified at the president's personal residence in Wilmington, Delaware.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTINGLY: And while this investigation has clearly moved into a very new, very potentially dangerous phase, at least based on historical precedent and special counsels, the White House counsel is stressing they will continue to cooperate, say they have cooperated and worked closely with the Justice Department up to this point, something that they don't think is going to change. And they said at least in a statement, after the special counsel was appointed that they believe that when this is all said and done, they will be discovered that this was an inadvertent issue, something that was clearly a mistake that they believe should exonerate the president, but very clearly a problem for a president that he was entering his third year in office with a fairly clear path after good midterms and a very, very different economic situation. Phil Mattingly, CNN, the White House.
 
NOBILO: There's much more to come on CNN. We'll have the latest on the controversy surrounding a New York Republican representative who admits to lying about parts of his resume.
 
FOSTER: Plus, the suspect in the murders of four Idaho college students appears in court. Details when returned.
 
NOBILO: Plus, a new Russian general takes charge of operations in Ukraine, why Kyiv believes that's a sign that the war is not going well for Moscow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
NOBILO: Recently elected New York representative George Santos is facing an escalating backlash from his own party over fabrications that he made about his past. Santos is admitted lying about parts of his resume.
 
FOSTER: At least six of his fellow Republicans are calling for him to step down. Others say there's no way he can govern effectively. But so far, House Speaker Kevin McCarthy is standing by him. CNN Chief Congressional Correspondent Manu Raju has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Freshman Congressman George Santos defiant.
 
REP. GEORGE SANTOS (R-NY): I will be continuing to hold my office elected by the people.
 
RAJU: Facing growing GOP calls for his resignation over his web of lies, but saying he is not going anywhere. After winning 142,000 votes last fall.
 
SANTOS: 142 people asked for me to resign, I'll resign.
 
RAJU: Refusing to answer CNN's questions about why he fabricated major portions of his life story. Mr. Santos, why did you lie to your voters about your qualifications, your past, being Jewish? Why did you lie to them? Voters deserve an explanation about the widespread lies about your past? How can you be trusted with sensitive security information, Mr. Santos?
 
Telling the fellow Republican that he has been honest.
 
SANTOS: Look, I've worked my entire life. I've lived an honest life. I've never been accused of any bad doing.
 
RAJU: Yet Santos has admitted to lying, including by saying he's Jewish and that his family survived the Holocaust, that he owned the 13 properties, that he worked for Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, even saying he graduated from the top of his class at Baruch College and was a star volleyball player, none of which is true.
 
REP. MIKE LAWLER (R-NY): He's lost the confidence of people in his own community. So, you know, I think he needs to seriously consider whether or not he can actually do his job effectively. And right now, it's pretty clear he can't.
 
RAJU: So, are you saying that he should resign?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's no way I believe he can fully fulfill his responsibilities.
 
REP. ANTHONY D'ESPOSITO (R-NY): The fact that he claimed that he was Jewish, that he had family who escaped the Holocaust. That's just not something that I can tolerate.
 
RAJU: Yet. He has critical support from Speaker Kevin McCarthy, who will not call on him to resign.
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA): The voters of his district have elected him. He is seated. He is part of the Republican conference.
 
RAJU: Some raising national security concerns. Given Santos is potentially facing fraud charges in Brazil. MCCARTHY: He's got a long way to go to earn trust, there are concerns about it. So, he will go before ethics. If anything is found to be have wrong. He will be held accountable exactly as anybody else in this body would be.
 
RAJU: If Santos resign, he'd vacated district President Biden won by eight points giving Democrats a chance to cut into McCarthy's razor thin House majority. Is this someone who you trust to have access to the nation's secrets?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, I think we'll still keep looking at those and get the facts.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAJU: There's one New York Republican who has not yet called on George Santos to resign. That's Elise Stefanik. She's a member of the Republican leadership. She was asked by our colleague, Melanie Zanona whether or not Santos should resign and she said it will play itself out. She called him a duly elected member of Congress. She noted that Democrats have faced investigations before but she would not say whether she still supports him. Stefanik raised lots of money for Santos, helped him win that race so critical to the Republican majority. Manu Raju, CNN, Capitol Hill.
 
FOSTER: The fate of this Ukrainian town of Soledar hangs in the balance today amid an all-out Russian offensive to put under Moscow - to put under Moscow's control.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
FOSTER: Ukraine's deputy defense minister says the fighting over the past several hours has been in her words, hot. Ukrainian officials earlier said that the situation is critical, but that they're still pushing back against Russian attacks. However, Russian Vagner mercenaries released this video showing them inside Soledar The group claims it has captured the entire town which the Kremlin is not confirming and the satellite images show you the sheer devastation left by just one week of fighting in that part of Ukraine.
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
The pictures on the left are from the beginning of the month, obviously. And on the right, you can see that more than smoldering buildings which is all this left in the same areas now.
 
NOBILO: Kyiv is also reacting to the revolving door of Russian military commanders in Ukraine, saying it shows that the war isn't going according to Moscow's plans. The Kremlin named General Valery Gerasimov to the job on Wednesday after his predecessor was in that role for just three months.
 
Nada Bashir has been following these developments in Ukraine, and she joins us now. Nadir, it's not as simple as (inaudible) being fired, and then Gerasimov being brought in, there's actually more of a restructuring going on. So, what can we interpret about Putin's feelings about the war and how they perceive it to be going from these changes.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Certainly, is a restructuring. And it is around the timing of this that is quite significant. And what's known as he laid out just three months after his predecessor was appointed to the post, and according to Ukrainian officials, as well as officials in the U.S., this could be a suggestion that Russia is still facing those significant setbacks and challenges that we've seen them facing on the ground in Ukraine over the last 11 months now.
 
In Ukraine, a top military official speaking just yesterday said this appointment shows that Russia's war efforts in Ukraine simply aren't going to plan that if everything goes in order, we wouldn't be seeing personnel changes this rank at this frequency. And that was the message we heard echoed in the U.S., the message from the Pentagon spokesperson there saying that this move could suggest that Russia is still facing significant obstacles on the ground. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIG. GEN. PAT RYDER, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: I'm not going to speculate, per se on how this might affect things on the battlefield in Ukraine other than to say that it likely does reflect some of the systemic challenges that the Russian military has faced since the beginning of this invasion.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR: Now that we've heard from Ukrainian Military officials, as well as Western intelligence and military officials about those challenges over the last 11 months from logistics and supply challenges to sustainment problems. We even heard from President Putin speaking yesterday, he acknowledged one of the many challenges that the Russian Armed Forces are currently facing right now quite clear, and frank acknowledgement has to be said speaking during a virtual meeting with his ministers, he publicly berated the minister for Industry and trade for failing to promptly complete orders for military and civilian aircrafts.
 
He was audibly frustrated, and he gave a one-month deadline for these contracts to be complete. But this is just one of the many challenges that they are facing. And one of the other clear signs that Gerasimov's appointment actually points to is that this could very well be an indication that President Putin, the Kremlin is planning to escalate and step up the war in Ukraine. That has been the warning we've heard from Ukrainian military officials over the last few weeks. And that was hinted at actually by the Russian Defense Ministry in the announcement of Gerasimov's appointment with a nod to an expansion of the scale of the tasks ahead, as well as an effort to refocus on improving the leadership of the Russian military and placing responsibility wholly on the General Command.
 
NOBILO: And we have been hearing all these reports suggesting an increased offensive next month, which would coincide with the one-year anniversary and we know how important those dates can be to Russia. Nada Bashir, thank you so much for joining us.
 
FOSTER: Senior government minister in Peru has resigned, deepening the country's political turmoil.
 
NOBILO: The South American nation has been gripped by weeks of protests following the impeachment and arrest of former President Pedro Castillo in December. Since then, at least 49 people have died in clashes between police and protesters.
 
FOSTER: Of the now former labor minister has called on the president to apologize for the deaths of protesters and to hold elections before April next year. On Thursday, Peru's Prime Minister insisted the country's president will not resign.
 
NOBILO: Days after an anti-government mob ransacked government buildings in Brazil.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
NOBILO: The country's president is vowing to remove diehard supporters of his predecessor from power. President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva accuses some members of Brazil's military police and armed forces of colluding with protesters as they rioted on Sunday.
 
FOSTER: And in the U.S. pressure is growing on President Biden to expel Brazil's former president Jair Bolsonaro has been in Florida since leaving Brazil just before Lula's inauguration. Now House Democrats have sent a letter urging Mr. Biden to revoke any diplomatic Visa, Bolsonaro may have.
 
Now the coming hours U.S. President Joe Biden will welcome the Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida to the White House. They'll hold a bilateral meeting and a working lunch, security and expanded cooperation amongst the topics up for discussion.
 
NOBILO: On the way to Washington, Mr. Kishida stopped in Ottawa for talks with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau
 <br>[04:30:00]
 
Security concerns including worries about North Korea will also on the agenda in Canada.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FUMIO KISHIDA, JAPAN PRIME MINISTER: We share the serious concerns about North Korea's increasing nuclear and missile activities. We confirm that we will continue to work closely together towards the complete denuclearization of North Korea in accordance with the UN Security Council resolutions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Mr. Biden will welcome the Dutch Prime Minister to the White House next week. And U.S. consumers see new signs that the Federal Reserve is turning the tide on inflation. You will see the reaction in the markets when we return.
 
FOSTER: Plus, the murder of four Idaho college students rocked the community, now a suspect is behind bars and facing felony murder charges. The latest on that after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster. If you're just joining us, let me bring you up to date with our top stories this hour. Across the U.S. there are 35 preliminary tornado reports yesterday across Alabama, Georgia, and Kentucky according to the Storm Prediction Center. Six people died in hard hit areas of Central Alabama where search efforts will continue today.
 
Plus, the only daughter of the late Elvis Presley and Priscilla Presley. Singer Lisa Marie died on Thursday after an apparent cardiac arrest. She was the sole heir to her father's estate. She followed in the footsteps of the king of rock'n'roll by releasing three albums as a singer and a songwriter.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
NOBILO: And we're getting reaction to Presley's death. Her ex-husband actor Nicolas Cage released this statement. He says, this is devastating news. Lisa had the greatest laugh of anyone I ever met. She lit up every room and I'm heartbroken, find some solace, believing that she is reuniting with her son, Benjamin.
 
In 2005. Presley spoke with Larry King on CNN about the media's coverage of her life and music.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LARRY KING, TELEVISION HOST: The mainstream media, the tabloids, they've been rough on you, the tabloids have been rough on you.
 
PRESLEY: They're rough. They're really rough. I have to say that - I don't know if they liked that the last that the record was successful because they went on a campaign. As soon as I got on my first tour, they're pretty quiet through all that last media and then when I got on my first tour, they started doing this whole slander campaign came out to try to make me look like I guess ultimately, like my father in the end.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: CNN's Chloe Melas has the story.
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: CNN has learned that Lisa Marie Presley, the only daughter of Elvis Presley has died. In a statement to CNN, the family wrote, Priscilla Presley and the Presley family are shocked and devastated by the tragic death of their beloved Lisa Marie. They are profoundly grateful for the support, love and prayers of everyone and ask for privacy during this very difficult time. Early Thursday morning, CNN learned that EMTs responded to Lisa Marie's home in Calabasas, California for a possible cardiac arrest. Now this came just two days after Lisa Marie attended the Golden Globes at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles alongside her mother Priscilla to support Austin Butler who portrayed her father in Baz Luhrmann film Elvis. He actually won a Golden Globe Award that evening. We saw cameras pan over to Lisa Marie and her mother in the audience. At one point it looked like she was wiping away tears. When Elvis died in August 1977, Lisa Marie was just nine-years-old and she is the only heir to his estate. Lisa Marie went on to have several children, one of which his name was Benjamin, he died by suicide in 2020. And Lisa has been open about the grief that she experienced in the wake of her son's death. Even writing in an essay this summer in July about what that was like and how difficult it was at one point - at one point writing my heart and soul went with you. The depth of the pain is suffocating and bottomless without you every moment of every day. Back to you.
 
FOSTER: U.S. markets on a roll amid signs that inflation is starting to cool off.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
NOBILO: The DOW and the S&amp;P 500 were in the black for third straight day yesterday while the NASDAQ is on a five-day winning streak. It came on the news that the increase in consumer prices slowed down again in December, which is giving Investors hope that the Federal Reserve will dial down its interest rate hikes.
 
FOSTER: The DOW and the NASDAQ gained six-tenths of a percentage points on Thursday; the S&amp;P was up about a third of a percent. This is the first time in the three years inflation has fallen on a monthly basis. New figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows consumer prices dropped by 0.1 percent In December.
 
NOBILO: But Americans are still feeling the pinch at the grocery store, especially when it comes to eggs. Rising feed costs in an outbreak of Avian flu have sent prices skyrocketing. Shoppers are paying nearly 60 percent more than they were this time last year.
 
FOSTER: And if you want to make an omelet in Hawaii, brace yourself. I know you were thinking of that just this morning.
 
NOBILO: I was. I was.
 
FOSTER: In some places there are going for more than $10, would you believe, for just a dozen.
 
NOBILO: I think I'd get my own chicken.
 
FOSTER: That would be a solution. How much would a chicken be?
 
NOBILO: Well, we'll have to check if they've had inflation--
 
FOSTER: It could be gone up as well.
 
NOBILO: The new trading day gets underway in about five hours and here's where U.S. Futures stand right now. They're not looking too happy.
 
FOSTER: No, they're all down but it's only slight and they were up we were told just a few minutes ago, so whiplash session. NOBILO: Volatile.
 
FOSTER: The European markets are up and running though and here's look at how they are - they are all up as well and markets across Asia fared like this, similarly it's a positive Friday.
 
NOBILO: Yes, looking good, over one percentage point. Now the man suspected of killing four University of Idaho students appeared in court Thursday. Bryan Kohberger attended a status conference. The judge scheduled a preliminary probable cause hearing for this summer.
 
FOSTER: The suspect faces four counts of first-degree murder. He's been held without bond in an Idaho jail since his extradition from Pennsylvania last week. Josh Campbell has more from Moscow, Idaho.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: the suspect in the murders of former University of Idaho students almost two months ago escorted by a police caravan to his court appearance Thursday.
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
28-year-old Brian Kohberger walked into the courtroom for a status conference with his feet shackled, his hands free, dressed in prison orange, appearing with cuts from shaving his face, according to the sheriff.
 
MEGAN MARSHALL, JUDGE, LATAH COUNTY DISTRICT COURT: Are you waiving your right to a speedy preliminary hearing and agreeing that that hearing can be held outside the 14-day period?
 
BRYAN KOHBERGER, SUSPECT OF FOUR IDAHO STUDENTS MURDER: Yes.
 
ANNE TAYLOR, KOOTENAI COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER: He's willing to waive the timeliness to allow us time to obtain discovery in this case.
 
CAMPBELL: It was Kohberger second appearance and his many weeks after he waived extradition and was returned to Idaho to face charges of four counts of first-degree murder and one count of burglary. He has not yet entered a plea. Kohberger is a sole suspect of the brutal stabbings of Kaylee Goncalves, Madison Mogen, Xana Kernodle and Ethan Chapin. Police still have not released any indication they have a murder weapon or a motive connecting the suspect to the victims.
 
Kohberger's Pennsylvania attorney said the suspect told him he believes he will be exonerated. The nearly seven-week manhunt ended last month in rural Pennsylvania where authorities arrested Kohberger at his family home. The horrific cases captivated the country and rocked the small college town of Moscow, Idaho, where students returned to campus this week after the winter break. Many students say the suspects arrest now makes the community feel safer.
 
RYDER PASLAY, UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO STUDENT: They got somebody who they think did it. And I've breathed a sigh of relief. I'm pretty sure that my mom did the same thing. CAMPBELL: Others say they remain vigilant.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm hanging out with some more people, definitely staying in groups.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAMPBELL: Now the next hearing in this case is set for June 26th. That will be the so-called preliminary probable cause hearing where we could get new details from prosecutors about their investigation. Until that time, the judge here has ordered the defendant remain in state custody without bond. Josh Campbell, CNN, Moscow, Idaho.
 
NOBILO: The death rate from cancer has fallen 33 percent in the U.S. since 1991. That's an estimated 3.8 million deaths averted.
 
FOSTER: A new report from the American Cancer Society credits better cancer treatment increase in early detection and less smoking. For all of that good news see, here's the CEO of the American Cancer Society.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAREN KNUDSEN, AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY CEO: So, there's new revelations for prevention, for early detection and for treatment have resulted in true meaningful gains in many of the 200 diseases that we call cancer.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: The report says there was a 65 percent drop-in cervical cancer rates among women in their early 20s from 2012 through 2019. But it says that there are still some areas of concern because new cases of breast, uterine and prostate cancer are rising in the U.S.
 
A five-year-old boy swept from his mother's arms by raging floodwaters. The latest on a desperate search when we return.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
NOBILO: As you've been hearing from us, there's been no letup in the series of extreme weather systems causing epic flooding in California. The rainfall has significantly reduced the state's drought problems though according to the U.S. Drought monitors latest report, but officials are saying that the state will need even more rain and years of drought.
 
FOSTER: Heavy rains turn neighborhoods into lakes and destroyed countless homes and businesses and more rain is expected on Friday and Saturday. Despite the rain and snow more than 95 percent of California remains in moderate to severe drought would you believe.
 
NOBILO: Back in November. parts of the state were in exceptional drought but only two weeks ago around a third was in the extreme drought category. FOSTER: Californian authorities are still searching for five-year-old who was ripped from his mother's arms by raging floodwaters on Monday. More than 200 rescue personnel are involved in the effort, CNN's Camila Bernal has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A relentless search. More than 200 rescue personnel meticulously searching every inch of this creek where five-year-old Kyle was swept away on Monday morning.
 
NATE PAUL, CHIEF DEPUTY SHERIFF, SAN LUIS OBISPO CO.: I can't say for sure whether we'll find him or not. What I can say is, we are doing everything we can to find Kyle using every resource available to us because that is ultimately our number one goal.
 
BERNAL: With every passing day, more desperation.
 
BRIAN DOAN, KYLE DOAN'S FATHER: I just want him back.
 
BERNAL: When the water rose, Kyle sounded calm. His father now recounting the boy's last words to his mother.
 
DOAN: He was telling her mommy don't panic. It's OK. Everything is going to be OK.
 
BERNAL: But the father says the water ripped Kyle away from his mother's arms.
 
DOAN: As she was getting him out and trying to hold him, the current was there and it took him.
 
BERNAL: Her screams heard by nearby residents who did everything they could to help.
 
DOAN: I was able to get a rope to her and get her over to the side but they couldn't get to my son.
 
BERNAL: Now shock denial and heartbreak.
 
DOAN: My wife really, it's hard because she survived the event and he's not here. And she feels really guilty that she wasn't the one to go down, not him.
 
BERNAL: A grainy home video from a Christmas past now a treasured memory.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERNAL: And those parents were out here today because they wanted to see those search efforts for themselves. The divers, the firefighters, the search teams, the members of the National Guard. After seeing all of that the father telling me that he's going through waves of emotions. They're still in shock. And the Chief Deputy telling me that he rarely does this, but he hugged those parents today promising to do everything he could to bring that child back home.
 
Unfortunately, though, there is rain in the forecast on Friday making the search even more difficult. Camila Bernal, CNN, San Luis Obispo County, California.
 
NOBILO: A new report published in the Journal Science reveals shocking details about how the energy industry spent years ignoring and even suppressing key climate research. It shows that scientists at oil giant Exxon were predicting global warming as early as the 1970s. The report found that the company scientists not only predicted long-term temperature rise, but also accurately predicted when human caused climate change would become noticeable. Still, the company spent decades lobbying against taking action.
 
FOSTER: More troubling news scientists say 2022 was the warmest La Nina year on record, and this year will be even warmer. Scientists say that is particularly alarming because the La Nina weather hadn't tends to lower temperatures. Experts say the rising temperatures were responsible for some of last year's biggest natural disasters including the heatwave in Europe, disastrous floods in Pakistan and a devastating hurricane in Florida.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
NOBILO: After the break, the Australian Open has revealed the matchups for the first round when the tournament begins on Monday and defending champ Rafael Nadal is looking to extend his grand slam tally.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: The Australian Open has revealed the first round of the matchups ahead of play beginning on Monday, defending champion Rafael Nadal will take on English youngster Jack Draper, but with a return of Novak Djokovic to the competition, Nadal can be hard pushed to retain that title.
 
NOBILO: Meanwhile, for the women's side, American Coco golf is heading into the tournament riding high after having won the ASB Classic without dropping single set. The 18-year-old superstar is looking to build on her excellent 2022 season.
 
FOSTER: The Super Bowl just a month away now and the official trailer has just been released for Rihanna's big performance.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
NOBILO: The pop icon and entrepreneur will headline the newly rebranded Apple Music Super Bowl halftime show. The Barbados native has not performed live since 2016. So, the suspense behind the 57 Super Bowl will take place on February 12th in Glendale, Arizona is going to be good.
 
FOSTER: And before we go, even though it's Friday the 13th today could be a lucky day for someone or some people in the United States. NOBILO: The Mega Millions jackpot really is mega, one and a third billion dollars. The drawing will be held at 11 PM Eastern time that's in 18 hours so there's still time to get in.
 
FOSTER: We can't buy tickets, it's very unfair. This is the second biggest Mega Millions jackpot ever the lump sum cash payout, also not that shabby $708 million with a tax man of course, taking his cut, he didn't end up with nearly enough.
 
NOBILO: No. you don't. Do you want to know facts about the lottery?
 
FOSTER: Go on.
 
NOBILO: When do you think the first lottery was?
 
FOSTER: 1936.
 
NOBILO: No, it was over 2000 years ago, China Han Dynasty. Interesting little factoid for you.
 
FOSTER: I'm going to miss those facts next week because you're away.
 
NOBILO: I will be away. Yes. Missing all of you very much.
 
FOSTER: Thank you for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster.
 
NOBILO: And I'm Bianca Nobilo. Early Start is up next right here on CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)