Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Final Preps Underway For King Charles' Coronation Tomorrow; World Health Organization: COVID Global Health Emergency Over; "The 2010s" Premieres Sunday At 9:00 PM ET/PT. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired May 05, 2023 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00]
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN NEWS CENTRAL ANCHOR: Stand to the Queen when she first had to wear that crown. It was really heavy and she had to really struggle to make sure her head stayed up straight. About 250,000 Britons turned out to pay their respects to Queen Elizabeth II when she was lying in state. Are we expecting to see that kind of huge crowd again for this much happier ceremony?
 
EMILY NASH, CNN ROYAL COMMENTATOR: I think we will see something comparable to that. Obviously, you know, the crowds that lined up to see the Queen lying in state did so over several days. I think people will get behind this tomorrow as a moment in history, whatever their views are of the monarchy, you know.
 
This is only the 14th time this will have happened in thousand years. And people want to say they were there. Whether or not they're on the streets or watching it on TV or from their local pub or at street parties. It's kind of something that is talked about for decades to come.
 
SIDNER: I do want to ask you because it has been 70 years and this is a very different world that we're living in. You know, the UK is far more diverse now. How will this ceremony reflect the new times that we're in?
 
NASH: Well, we're going to see a much broader variety of people in the abbey than we did in 1953. For example, for the late Queen, it was largely peers, lords, and ladies of the realm, everyone wearing their coronets and Tiaras. And we're going to see far more ordinary people and people who've been recognized for their contribution to society.
 
Of course, there'll be heads of states and foreign Royals there. You'd expect them to be on such a big state occasion. But I think the king has made sure that this ceremony is as modern and as inclusive as it possibly can be given that it's following in a thousand years of ritual tradition.
 
SIDNER: Thank you so much for joining us from Buckingham Palace. What a scene we are seeing live now. All of the motorcade is all backed up there and you see people waiting. Kate?
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN CENTRAL NEWS ANCHOR: That is a motorcade. OK. So, for the massive crowds that you're just talking about gearing up to catch a glimpse of the new king on the streets of London, it's also looking like they need to prepare for the weather at the very same time. Tomorrow's coronation could be a washout.
 
Meteorologist Allison Chinchar, she's taking a look at this, tracking the weather and the rain that could be moving in. What's it looking like?
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST (on camera): I did the full meaning of rain on your parade may come to fruition tomorrow, unfortunately for a lot of those people that are standing outside, hoping to catch a glimpse. Now, when we look at today, we've already had some showers kind of move across the area. We're not talking a washout per se, but we have had several scattered showers move across areas of England also Ireland, and Scotland as the system continues to make its way off to the east.
 
Here's a look at the radar. Again, the good news is we're not talking incredibly heavy rain. It hasn't been a washout. But you've had some patches here and there of some light to moderate showers.
 
The problem is going forward. Now, in the morning. For a lot of those folks hoping to catch a glimpse before a lot of the festivities take place, you may get lucky. Things are expected to be much drier tomorrow morning.
 
Once we get into the afternoon, though, look at that surge of moisture really starts to come in right around lunchtime locally there, and then continues through the afternoon hours. Unfortunately, that's when so many things are happening is really that key time between noon and say four to 5:00 p.m. tomorrow, a lot of people outside and unfortunately not really going to line up with a lot of the nicer weather.
 
And then additional heavy rain pushes in on Monday. Overall, however, temperatures will be mild but really you're likely on the warmer end of some of the more recent coronations. You're just going to need the umbrella handy to go along with it.
 
BOLDUAN: All right, Allison, thank you so much. John, I asked the mayor of London about the weather and his response was Lionel Richie is going to be there.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL ANCHOR: Yes, Lionel Richie makes everything better. They do say it's good luck when it rains in your coronation. That's what I've always been told.
 
BOLDUAN: Oh, it's so true.
 
BERMAN: Always. It's played (INAUDIBLE)
 
BOLDUAN: Oh, it's fantastic.
 
BERMAN: All right. Mark your calendars for what could be a key date in Republican presidential primary posturing. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis closing one door as he perhaps readies to open another.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:38:28]
 
SIDNER: On the radar this morning. President Biden is expected to pick the current lead general of the Air Force to be the next chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. A source tells CNN, General Charles Q. Brown Jr. is Biden's choice to replace General Mark Milley. Milley's four-year term ends this September. If approved by the Senate, it would be the first time in United States history that the defense secretary and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs are both African American.
 
Also, a big legal victory for singer Ed Sheeran. He won a copyright infringement lawsuit against him. The jury found he did not rip off Marvin Gaye's Let's Get It On when Sheeran wrote his 2014 hit Thinking Out Loud.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ED SHEERAN, MUSICIAN: I'm obviously very happy with the outcome of the case. And it looks like I'm not having to retire from my day job after. But at the same time, I'm unbelievably frustrated that baseless claims like this are allowed to go to court at all.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: Sheeran and one of the plaintiffs who had sued him, hugged and spoke at length in court after the verdict. That plaintiff said she respected the jury's decision, John.
 
BERMAN: All right. New this morning, the World Health Organization says that COVID is no longer a global health emergency. This is three years into the pandemic now.
 
CNN's Senior Medical Correspondent Elizabeth Cohen is with us. How did the WHO come to this conclusion? What does it mean?
 
ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): So, the WHO looked at the epidemiology how much it's spreading, how severe it is, and they came up with you know, we think this public health emergency is over.
 <br>[11:40:01]
 
And let's take a look at this moment. January 30, 2020, that's when it began, and now it ends today, May 5, 2023. So, that's from the World Health Organization. Here is the WHO's Dr. Maria Kerkhove.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. MARIA VAN KERKHOVE, COVID-19 TECHNICAL LEAD, WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION: Epidemiologically, this virus will continue to cause waves. What we are hopeful of is that we have the tools in place to ensure that the future waves do not result in more severe diseases don't result in waves of death, and we can do that with the tools we have at hand. We just need to make sure that we are tracking the virus because it will continue to evolve.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COHEN: So, Dr. Kerkhove also said, look, we need to look at other viruses too. We have learned from this experience that new viruses happen, and the world needs to learn how to deal with it so that millions don't die, John.
 
BERMAN: And, Elizabeth, the U.S. is on its own timeline in terms of emergency declarations, and this is running out too.
 
COHEN: It is. So, on May 11 is when the public health emergency in the U.S. ends. It has ended before and was renewed. The thinking now is that it won't be renewed and that this really is going to end on May 11 given what the WHO has just done.
 
It will affect some things. You won't be able to get a COVID test for free in many cases, other kinds of treatments. The hope is that it won't impact too many people because the -- you know the numbers of COVID cases have come down over time.
 
BERMAN: Elizabeth Cohen, a welcome day, I think coming up for all of us. Thank you very much. Kate?
 
BOLDUAN: The countdown is on right now for a possible presidential campaign announcement from Florida Governor Ron DeSantis. Now, the governor has been hinting that his future plans would be decided or maybe just announced after the Florida State Legislature wrapped up their session. That session wraps up today.
 
CNN'S Steve Contorno is in Florida for us. He's joining us now. Steve, what about the state legislature, their agenda really could be teeing up DeSantis for a presidential announcement.
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER (on camera): Kate, DeSantis handed off a long list of priorities that he wanted to see through -- get through this legislative session before he made an announcement for governor. And this legislature which is controlled in both chambers by Republicans largely delivers for him. Let me go through some of the priorities that have made its way to his desk. There are -- many of them are very contentious.
 
It includes universities can no longer spend money on diversity programs. K-12 schools will restrict transgender teachers from using pronouns and -- you know their preferred choice and generally discouraged pronoun discussions in general. Abortion in Florida will be banned after six weeks with limited exceptions for rape, incest, and the life of the mother. It also allows people to carry -- they will also allow now people to carry a concealed weapon in Florida without training or a permit.
 
The legislature also saved some of their most contentious items for the end, including a number of bills that will change the way -- change lives for transgender people in the state of Florida. There is a prohibition on children receiving gender-affirming treatments in Florida going forward. And it also prohibits transgender people from using the bathroom that matches their gender identity.
 
And DeSantis has -- is actually holding a press conference right now where he is taking sort of a victory lap for everything he was able to get accomplished. And he wants to take these legislative accomplishments and basically turn them into a platform that can -- that he can run on against the Republican field.
 
You know there are -- Kate, there are a lot of formers currently running for president. Former President Donald Trump, former Governor Nikki Haley, former Governor Hutchinson, but DeSantis as a current governor has had this ability to set the agenda, to get a lot of stuff done, and he is going to use that to his advantage as much as possible if and when he jumps into this race.
 
BOLDUAN: It's a good point. Good to see you, Steve. Thank you so much. Sara?
 
SIDNER: All right. Do you want to be happy? Do you want to feel good? See a little happiness on the news? You got to wait for this segment.
 
It's just one of the TV shows, Schitt's Creek, that help defined the 2010s. Ahead, we speak with two of the actresses who made Schitt's Creek, the sitcom of the pandemic. That's ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:48:49]
 
BERMAN: So, the 2010s, it was some decade I'm still sore, marked by political and social unrest, the rise of social media, and capped off by the year that changed everything, 2020.
 
SIDNER: On Sunday, CNN's acclaim decade series is back with the 2010s. In its first episode, we take a look at the rise of peak TV and its impact on pop culture here in America.
 
BOLDUAN: Here is a preview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The 2010s have ushered in a new era called Peak TV.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Peak TV.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The like button was a market genius.
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It can be frustrating in this business of democracy.
 
HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: I am running for President.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: President of the United States. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It was a moment that said we have to tell our stories.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If we could drop.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I may be the voice of my generation or at least a voice.
 
BERMAN: With us now, two actresses who made an indelible mark on audiences in the 2010s. Emily Hampshire who played Stevie and Sarah Levy, who played Twyla on the award-winning show, Schitt's Creek. I am so happy to see both of you.
 
I was a big fan -- a big fan of the show. And I have to say that there was one episode that ranks as literally one of my top television episodes of all time, and it concerns you, especially it was the show where you guys did cabaret.
 <br>[11:50:09]
 
EMILY HAMPSHIRE, PORTRAYED STEVIE BUDD ON SCHITT'S CREEK: That's my (INAUDIBLE)
 
BERMAN: And you sang Maybe. And let's play a little bit of that.
 
HAMPSHIRE: That's my favorite part of this when he says that's my friend. Oh, I got goosebumps.
 
BERMAN: It may be getting dusty in here again. And it was dusty the first time I saw it. And the reason I love it so much is just because of what you said. You're watching this show that makes you laugh so much for so long. And then there's this moment of just incredible decency.
 
HAMPSHIRE: Yes. Oh my god. He's like, that's my friend. It's my absolute friend.
 
SARAH LEVY, PORTRAYED TWYLA SANDS ON SCHITT'S CREEK: That's one of my favorite moments.
 
HAMPSHIRE: Yes. It's -- Sarah, can you see me?
 
LEVY: Hi, Em. I can and you look fabulous my dad.
 
SIDNER: Oh, there you are.
 
HAMPSHIRE: You can see me. OK, good.
 
BERMAN: My question surrounding that adulation that was stacked over you.
 
BOLDUAN: That do it.
 
BERMAN: How important do you think -- that decency, that fundamental kindness was to the show, and maybe a newer type of show that we can all enjoy that came about in that decade. HAMPSHIRE: Yes. I think it was kind of specifically because of where we were in that decade. I do think that the world was kind of wanting kind of comedy that there wasn't that before. It was really, at least from my perspective, the first of its kind to be funny, but not sacrifices humor for its heart. It was just genuine but really funny.
 
BOLDUAN: Sarah, what did you think -- what do you think it was about the show that just connected with so many people?
 
LEVY: I think that's exactly it. It's a humor and its warmth and its intelligence. And like Em said, it came at a very specific time where people were looking for that. And I think especially during the pandemic, which is when a lot of people seem to discover the show, it was -- it was a time when we all hunker down and like needing good.
 
HAMPSHIRE: I think especially during quarantine like everybody was either with their family that maybe they didn't want to be with or alone. And so, Schitt's Creek -- I may be mistaken to say Schitt's.
 
BOLDUAN: No. You can just call it Schitt's all over the place.
 
BERMAN: We're all good.
 
HAMPSHIRE: OK. It really --it was a lot of people's chosen family during that time, so.
 
SIDNER: Did you ever either of you ever go and watch it yourself? Because you know, we're standing back and we used it as almost like a blanket because it made you laugh. You know what I mean? And it gave you some heart. Did you go back and watch it? I know it's hard to watch things that you -- 
 
HAMPSHIRE: I didn't -- it was especially hard to watch it I think because most people don't know that it was over. We were done when it got popular.
 
LEVY: Yes.
 
HAMPSHIRE: So, we were just depressed.
 
LEVY: Yes.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
HAMPSHIRE: So, watching it, it made us happy. It made us sad.
 
SIDNER: No. Oh, so you made us happy but you paid for it.
 
HAMPSHIRE: Yes. That's the ultimate sacrifice, yes.
 
LEVY: I found it -- I found it so nice to be able to see my friends. Like I would put it on because I missed these guys so much and it was a way for me to be in touch with them and be all together without actually, you know being together.
 
BERMAN: So, but you sound like it's over. Any -- isn't necessarily over, more, movies, single, does that have to be?
 
BOLDUAN: Does that have to be over?
 
HAMPSHIRE: I mean we didn't want it to be over.
 
SIDNER: Who do we need to call?
 
HAMPSHIRE: Sorry.
 
SIDNER: Who do we need to call to make this happen again?
 
HAMPSHIRE: Her dad. Her dad.
 
SIDNER: The Levy family trust.
 
HAMPSHIRE: Yes.
 
SIDNER: OK, go ahead.
 
HAMPSHIRE: But I would be surprised if we didn't do something else together. Like we know we're not going to do the show again but I think we like each other too much to not, at least to maybe Christmas thing. Your dad's really cute on Christmas.
 
LEVY: I think there's -- a -- yes. Right. There's -- I think -- I think it's somewhere down the line, something is going to happen. We all love each other too much. And we're desperate to work together again.
 
So, to get that group back together, I think it's something that everybody is really wanting. But I don't know if it's anytime soon or what it is, but I'm sure that it -- 
 
HAMPSHIRE: Work harder that it -- there will be something. Work harder.
 
LEVY: I know. I know. Listen, I'm on the phone with Daniel once a week asking. People need to know.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BOLDUAN: And the new original series, The 2010s, premieres Sunday at 9:00 p.m. right here on CNN.
 
BERMAN: I think we got a commitment for a new show right there.
 
BOLDUAN: I -- well, now it's out there so if they don't, then they're up Schitt's Creek.
 <br>[11:55:02]
 
BERMAN: Oh, wow.
 
SIDNER: Oh, wow. I think it's time to go.
 
BERMAN: Yes. I feel like we could do more chatter but you just ended everything right there.
 
SIDNER: I feel like you just ended it but that's OK. It's the Friday.
 
BOLDUAN: I did just have the opportunity to say it.
 
SIDNER: It's all good. We have the coronation tomorrow. I'm sure you'll be up and watching the whole thing. Thank you so much for joining us. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. INSIDE POLITICS is up in just a bit.
 
BERMAN: When you have a coronation, I go straight for it.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)