Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Earthquake Death Toll Nears 38,000; Red Cross calls for Access in Northern Syria; Poland Starts Training Ukraine on Leopard 2 Tanks; Purpose and Origin of UFOS Shot Down Remain Unexplained; BBC Offices Raided after Documentary Critical of Modi; A look at Valentine's Day by the Numbers. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired February 14, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: I'm Becky Anderson. Hello and welcome back to "Connect the World" live from the World Government Summit 
 
 in Dubai this hour. An annual conference where leaders across the business and political world gathered to discuss future trends in technology and in 
 
 global finance more on that in a moment.
 
First, our top story for you, new aid routes, new rescues, and sadly, a death toll climbing horrifically higher. That is the scene in Turkey and in 
 
 Syria some eight days after what was a devastating earthquake. Remarkably, several people have been pulled out of the rubble alive today, including 
 
 two women in Turkey and Hatay.
 
Well in Syria, the UN says that President Bashar Al Assad has agreed to open two more aid lanes from Turkey into the opposition held northwest that 
 
 is in addition to the - crossing and should help supplies reach just some of the millions who are in desperate need.
 
Meantime, the number of dead now pass 37,000 and that is likely not a realistic number. It is likely that number could be significantly higher. 
 
 CNN's Nada Bashir joins us now from Istanbul Nada?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Look Becky, that death toll is certainly expected to continue rising just had a statement from UNICEF saying that 
 
 they fear the number of children killed in the earthquake. It's also expected to continue rising.
 
But it is remarkable to see that we are still finding people alive beneath the rubble. Rescue groups have been working around the clock for the last 
 
 eight days. And today, miraculous rescues it has to be said people been pulled out of the rubble more than 200 hours after the earthquake.
 
So it is a significant feat. But those rescues the discovery of survivors is becoming few and far between. And of course the window for finding 
 
 survivors is closing very, very quickly. And the focus now is now shifting from rescue effort to a recovery effort. And there is immediate emphasis 
 
 and a sense of urgency when it comes to providing support for those survivors.
 
We have seen a huge groundswell of support here in Turkey and indeed from the international community. When it comes to providing that vital 
 
 humanitarian assistance here in Istanbul two aid centers have been set up. They've been sending those donations that humanitarian assistance onwards 
 
 to Southeast Turkey.
 
And of course, as you mentioned there, there is a real question of what aid is heading to Northwest Syria. The aid program here in Turkey is certainly 
 
 far more robust than we've seen in Northwest Syria. The White Helmets there have been leading on the rescue effort.
 
They gave up hope on finding survivors days ago. They have called on the UN for further support. The UN itself conceding that it has failed the people 
 
 of Northwestern Syria without aid taking days to get across the border. But it does appear now that there are further two crossings in addition to the 
 
 first - crossing from Turkey into Northwest Syria are now operational.
 
Aid is getting through we have seen a UN mission visiting the affected region of Northwest Syria. And there are discussions ongoing, of course, to 
 
 ensure that cross line transfer of aid from government territory from Damascus onwards to rebel-held territory does in fact happen. But of 
 
 course, it does seem too little too late for those in Northwest Syria.
 
And there is a real sense of abandonment, as we've heard described by the White Helmets. Here in Turkey of course, there is a sense of frustration, 
 
 as well. There are growing calls for accountability over the earthquake. The government itself has now established an investigation more than 200 
 
 public prosecutors across 10 provinces in Southeastern Turkey now overseeing that investigation.
 
More than a hundred people identified as potential suspects in relation to construction negligence over those now destroyed buildings in Southeast 
 
 Turkey. We've already seen a number of arrests carried out as well. But there are questions as to whether the government could have done enough to 
 
 prepare for a catastrophe of the scale? Whether the aid has been transferred quickly enough, but the real focus here in Turkey continues to 
 
 be getting that aid to those in need as quickly as possible, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, absolutely. Nada Bashir is in Istanbul for you. As we mentioned, aid organizations desperately trying to get vital supplies to 
 
 Syria in particular, to the northwest area near to the epicenter of that earthquake.
 
One of those is the International Committee of The Red Cross. The footage you see here showing international workers in Aleppo a city under 
 
 government control that was hit hard by the quake.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
ANDERSON: The ICRC has been on the ground providing some of the most basic services to sustain life, clean water, health care items as simple as 
 
 blankets to simply keep out the freezing cold. While visiting herself the ICRC President has made a plea to de-politicize aid.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIRIANA SPOLJARIC, PRESIDENT, INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS: Well, what is most important now is that we gain access to all parts of 
 
 Northern Syria to help people who need our urgent support. Impartial humanitarian assistance should never be hindered, no politicized, we have 
 
 to get access, and we have to be able to reach the affected population.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, the Vice President of the ICRC is Gilles Carbonnier joins me now. And the president there on the ground, suggesting and I want to 
 
 quote here; it is difficult to find the words to describe the level of loss, suffering and destruction I've seen and heard about. My heart goes 
 
 out to all of those who have lost loved ones, both in Syria and of course, in Turkey.
 
She said isn't the time to politicize aid but the UN Chief Antonio Guterres remarking today that life-saving aid has not been getting in at the speed 
 
 and scale that is needed. At this point, it will be too little too late, won't it when that aid does eventually get to those who need it most? 
 
 What's going on?
 
GILLES CARBONNIER, VICE PRESIDENT, INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS Well, we have been able on the spot on day one to provide assistance 
 
 directly because we were present already in the north of Syria, of course, trying to protect and assist those suffering from years of armed conflict.
 
And essential services provision of water was already on the brink of collapse. We were trying to maintain up and running these important vital 
 
 systems. And we had got an outbreak in December. So on top of that, you have the earthquake in a situation which is you know, just a humanitarian 
 
 catastrophe. And we have to mobilize all of us, you know, or what we can in order to be able to provide assistance to all those in need, wherever they 
 
 are.
 
ANDERSON: The White Helmets, who are working in the opposition held areas of Syria, and have been working off times on their own in areas to try and 
 
 rescue and now sadly, recover bodies say they feel abandoned, your response?
 
CARBONNIER: Well, as a humanitarian organization, we have been trying to work and do our utmost together in Syria with the Syrian Arab, Red 
 
 Crescent. Of course, you see also the Turkish Red Crescent in Turkey, to reach everyone. Now we are humanitarian organization.
 
And we need acceptance from all the parties concerned in order to access people. And this is where we engage tirelessly, in dialogue in 
 
 conversations in order to reach all those in needs. And that's our priority. And we are just in it now, to be able to do this.
 
ANDERSON: There's been so much talk about this is just a catastrophe piled on top of a catastrophe that was, you know, the story of the Northwest of 
 
 Syria over the last decade and the politicization of the victims of that last decade of conflict and now those who are suffering as a result of this 
 
 quake.
 
The sense of not being able to get aid across these cross lines, this is between government-held and rebel-held areas. It's so important at this 
 
 point, isn't it that people stand back and consider the victims that surely what you're saying at the ICRC take politics out of this?
 
CARBONNIER: We are strictly humanitarian, and we try to preserve, you know, the core of humanity in all situations of armed conflict and where people 
 
 need aid. And it is key that we can, you know, continue the conversations with all the parties concerned in order to be able to do just that.
 
ANDERSON: Are you having those conversations with all the parties concerned?
 
CARBONNIER: We are having a conversation you have seen our president, she just completed a six day visit and work in Syria, which was by the way 
 
 foreseen before the earthquake and of course was maintained for all good reasons with the earthquake.
 
ANDERSON: So she is talking to both sides?
 
CARBONNIER: And we are talking as ICRC, our modus operandi is to engage in confidential dialogue with all those who can facilitate the provision of 
 
 essential life-saving aid. So this is how we go about in all armed conflicts, and this is what we are doing now.
 
ANDERSON: Do you genuinely believe you're making progress at this point, when I say both sides; it's more than two sides here?
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
CARBONNIER: Well, we tirelessly engage, I think with the level of needs, and the catastrophe that we are seeing, there is an additional urgency to 
 
 engage with most force in these conversations. These conversations are confidential, we are engaged in it. And we hope very much to be able to do 
 
 more, so that all the people that needing and requiring urgent assistance do get access to this impartial to my attorney.
 
ANDERSON: Assessing the situation on the ground as it stands at present. What do people need most at this point?
 
CARBONNIER: While at present, as you mentioned, search and rescue was the number one priority. And it's miraculous that after eight days, still, some 
 
 of them can be saved, and these must go on. But unfortunately, I think we will soon move to the next phase, which is emergency aid in terms of 
 
 shelter, in terms of food, in terms of water and in terms of medical assistance.
 
Shelter will be key, because of course, it's very cold at night, and people who have been already displaced, sometimes several times because of the 
 
 conflict, have lost again, everything. So they will need again to restart and find shelter. But we have at the same time to think medium term.
 
And as I mentioned that we see that vital infrastructure, especially water systems, and hospitals and health systems, was on the brink of collapse 
 
 after years of conflict. And then we have to see from day one, how we can maintain these systems up and running and upscale them in order to be able 
 
 to provide safe drinking assistance, wastewater treatment, especially in urban areas.
 
ANDERSON: Antonio Guterres has announced tonight, an emergency appeal for nearly $400 million. And that is just for the next three months. And that 
 
 is just for Syria alone, they are working on through the process of the emergency appeal for Turkey, at present. Those sorts of numbers are not 
 
 going to be enough, are they?
 
CARBONNIER: Well, the needs are huge, ourselves the international movement of the Red Cross and Red Crescent, working with the nationalist societies, 
 
 which are the Red Crescent in Turkey and Syria. We are also appealing for more support, because I think that no one can alone address the sheer level 
 
 of needs that we see. And you have needs short term, which is life saving and immediate response.
 
But medium term response in terms of temporary shelters, and then relocation rebuilding will be key as well, so needs are huge. And I think 
 
 as we discuss here at the World Government Summit, beyond humanitarian aid, it will be important to have development finance involved to have private 
 
 sector involved. And I think that this crisis is such that it's also must be seen as an opportunity for offering better conditions for people.
 
ANDERSON: And you bring up that private sector financing. And I know, here at the World Government Summit, there's been much talk of development, 
 
 finance and UN aid. Most of that was geared around as this event was being organized around climate finance, quite frankly, I mean, COP28 is here this 
 
 year, the UAE is hosting COP28.
 
And there has been a real sense of urgency about getting money and catalyzing financing for people who need most in the emerging and 
 
 developing world in small, small islands. It's fascinating now that you bring that up, because that conversation is very quickly at pivoting 
 
 towards what can be done, is it for what is going on in Syria.
 
CARBONNIER: Very much so, but I'm glad you mentioned climate change, because actually, we are working across the Horn of Africa, the Lake Chad 
 
 region, the Sahel, in their needs are also extremely dire. And what we see is that climate change is hitting especially vulnerable people across those 
 
 places where you have protracted armed conflict and climate change.
 
And what we are seeing here is that it's also necessary that climate finance especially for adaptation, is also channeled to neglected bases, 
 
 which are places which are fragile, which are conflict prone and where people actually cannot cope anymore with the waves or cycles of flooding 
 
 drought that we are seeing.
 
So we really think that it's necessary to mobilize these in catalytic funds, in order also to take care of how we can accompany and provide more 
 
 resilient systems and options to those people in fragile contexts.
 
ANDERSON: And I have to say because I've been in many of these discussions, there is a lot of creative thought going on about how you do mobilize that 
 
 cash. How you catalyze the money that is available and ensure that you can get this kind of support from the private because it's not going to come 
 
 from governments alone not in this kind of with these current economic headwinds, is fascinating. Thank you very much indeed for having us on.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
ANDERSON: And thank you for the work that you do with the ICRC and all of those who are working with your organization, in not just Syria and Turkey, 
 
 of course, but in conflict areas around the world. Thank you.
 
CARBONNIER: Thank you very much.
 
ANDERSON: For information on how to help the earthquake victims go to cnn.com/impact you'll find a list of organizations working on rescue and 
 
 relief efforts. Well, shock and grief after another deadly mass shoot in the United States. This time on a university campus in Michigan, at least 
 
 three students are dead.
 
Also, ahead Russia miscalculated when it invaded Ukraine. That is the word from top U.S. defense officials, as NATO meets in Brussels to boost support 
 
 for Ukraine. A live report on that is just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: NATO Secretary General says Russia's war on Ukraine has become a grinding war of attrition and therefore a battle of logistics. In 
 
 Stoltenberg who's asking for the delivery of more ammunition in spare parts as NATO Defence Ministers meet in Brussels today.
 
Well, the talks come at a critical time but the first anniversary of Russia's invasion just days away. Top U.S. military officials are also in 
 
 Brussels. The U.S. Defense Secretary says Russia's president seriously underestimated Ukraine.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: A year ago, Putin assume that Ukraine was an easy target. Putin assume that Kyiv would easily fall and Putin 
 
 assume that the world would stand by, but the Kremlin was wrong on every count.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson is monitoring developments for you tonight. He is in Warsaw in Poland. We'll talk about 
 
 why you're there, Nic, in a moment. We just heard from the U.S. Secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin. He spoke at a press conference and took questions 
 
 from the media last hour. What do you make of what you heard?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: I think one very big takeaway is the pressure that he and the other defense chiefs are under to 
 
 what his describing there as integrate all these forces get an integrated air defense system and integrated training system because so much is being 
 
 committed to Ukraine right now.
 
You know, he said 11 nations are committing tanks, 22 nations committing infantry fighting vehicles. 16 different nations are committing artillery 
 
 and ammunition; nine different nations are committing air offense. And he said at this moment the real effort is to get this into, get the equipment 
 
 into Ukraine's hands.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
ROBERTSON: Get it in their hands in such a way that they can use it effectively. In part, he said, because Ukraine wants an offensive in the 
 
 spring, but it's also very mindful. He said that while Russia has had its ground forces depleted, its Air Force is still relatively untouched. And it 
 
 does seem to appear that, that is a pressing and emerging concern.
 
And hence the importance of getting Ukraine's air defense is integrated. But we heard as well, you know, he spoke about Norway giving 7.5 billion 
 
 Euros in civilian and military aid, huge Italy and France committing air defense systems, France and Australia, committing to up ammunition 
 
 production ammunition has been a key thing here.
 
And we heard that come up in the press conference that the Ukrainians are short of ammunition that NATO effectively is slipping behind in being able 
 
 to produce enough ammunition in this war of attrition that's very heavily contested on the frontlines in the east.
 
So I think these were the big takeaways. But this integration, eight battalions, eight brigades rather, is what Lloyd Austin spoke about trying 
 
 to create is a big force, a complex forces a lot of different equipment from different nations. And it's tough to put it together and make it work 
 
 effectively.
 
ANDERSON: And this and this ahead of what we heard from Lloyd Austin today, as he described it, a new offensive by the Russians were just shy of a year 
 
 into this war of attrition as described by Jens Stoltenberg. CNN got access to polish training of Ukrainian soldiers on those Leopard 2 tanks that 
 
 we've been reporting on. Can you just tell us a little more about what's going on with those and what you found?
 
ROBERTSON: Yes, and it took so long to get Ukraine's NATO friends to commit to providing tanks. But of course, the next step is the training. Poland 
 
 has been at the vanguard of pushing to get the tanks and it's also at the forefront of training up Ukrainians.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): After just a week of training, Ukrainian tank crew show off their new skills on a Polish gun range. The first time their 
 
 Leopard 2 training has been put on display. The crews pulled direct from Ukraine's eastern battlefront. Too soon to say what's best about the 
 
 Leopard 2 Ukraine's tank, trainer says, but the machine is good quality.
 
And what is most important issue my soldiers like it a lot. Their training fast tracked 12 hours a day, six days a week, compared to the Polish 
 
 standard, eight hours a day five days a week. Polish instructors say the Ukrainians will be ready in a month. Most of them have some tank skills 
 
 already. The Polish Brigadier in charge says they're so keen to learn, we have to hold them back.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): In peacetime, it's rare if ever, that tank crews a race through their training like this. It's a sign of how much they needed 
 
 at the front lines that they're being accelerated through their level two apprenticeships.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): Poland's president who has been at the vanguard of pushing NATO allies to give Ukraine modern battle tanks and he's sending 14 
 
 of Poland came to meet the Ukrainian crews and see their progress. His visit providing big publicity for Poland's commitment to Ukraine and a 
 
 flavor of what U.S. President Joe Biden will hear when he visits next week, a pitch for joint Tank Brigade.
 
ANDRZEJ DUDA, POLISH PRESIDENT: I hope that soon the brigades will be ready for Ukraine and also includes American Abrams tanks so that Ukraine can 
 
 counter the Russian offensive.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): The tanks and the training, only part of readying this new force for war.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The biggest challenge now is spare parts for these tanks. We are setting this task to the German defense industry.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): For the Ukrainian tank crews patiently parked up and waiting through most of the Polish President's visit, priority is 
 
 getting back to the war, even if that means the training is sped up. I think that the training time will be enough for us to get to grips with the 
 
 technology he says; we are lacking a lot of heavy armor like this. If we get it, it will be much better.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): On this training ground, perhaps more profound and tank skills honed history in the making, the foundations of a fully 
 
 modernized NATO compatible Ukrainian army being laid.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON: But the scale of creating that army and just the tank force alone remember President Zelenskyy said he wanted about 300 to 400 tanks 
 
 that are what he thinks he needs for the fight right now. Well, right now they're training 21 tank crews here in Poland; Germany started its 
 
 training, as well, of course.
 
But to get all those tank crews up to 400, really that's, that's to the end of the year job maybe even longer. And I think that really gives us a sense 
 
 of just what it's going to take. That's the tanks alone before you begin the integration with all the other elements the infantry fighting vehicle, 
 
 because of course you have to put those together in the battlefield to make them effective to do what Ukraine wants. Take that territory and hold in, 
 
 Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Nic is on the ground. He is in Warsaw in Poland reporting on what we heard out of Brussels earlier on today as well, Nic, thank you. Well to 
 
 the deadly University shooting in the United States. Now Police say a gunman killed three students and critically wounded five others on Monday 
 
 at Michigan State University before apparently taking his own life.
 
He's been identified as a 43 year old man with no known ties to the school. Well, the motive stills a mystery as Americans deal with another mass 
 
 shooting. CNN's Adrienne Broaddus reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This truly has been a nightmare that we are living tonight.
 
ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Chaos and carnage at Michigan State University after police say a 43 year old shooter opened 
 
 fire at two separate locations on campus. Investigators say there was a confrontation and then the 43 year old and in his own life.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We were there locked in the rooms and the guys are telling us to run out the back door as quick as we can and run for our 
 
 lives. And I sprinted out there as fast as I can into the woods.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And we all thought we were safe on the second floor in the cafeteria, but obviously we weren't, we were told to evacuate we all 
 
 ran out was terrifying. It's pretty scary.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh my god.
 
BROADDUS (voice over): Students captured on this cell phone video running for their lives. Some students say they sheltered in place in the 
 
 cafeteria, listening to police reports. Once they realized the shots were getting closer, they started barricading themselves in the room.
 
GABE TREUTLE, STUDENT WITNESS (voice over): The SWAT and the cops came in and they all told us to get out of the cafeteria. So we all started on the 
 
 stairs.
 
BROADDUS (voice over): About a mile and a half from the university, East Lansing high schools district board meeting was interrupted and the 
 
 building also on lockdown.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We felt advised by LPD to remain here and go into lockdown right now.
 
BROADDUS (voice over): Can the police were on scene within minutes?
 
CHRIS ROZMAN, INTERIM DEPUTY CHIEF, MSU DEPARTMENT OF POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY: We had officers in the building following their active shooter 
 
 protocol and going towards the threat, while officers were in Bercy Hall. The suspect moved over to the union. And when the incident took place their 
 
 officers quickly redeployed to the union.
 
BROADDUS (voice over): Students and faculty were left sheltering for hours. Many students were evacuated but say they left confused and shaken.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was looking for my friends is like when everyone was running down the stairs like everyone got lost all over the place and it's 
 
 just like people are crying and scared, it's just a really bad experience. You don't take it seriously until it's happening to you.
 
BROADDUS (voice over): This shooting is the 67th mass shooting in the U.S. so far this year.
 
TERESA K. WOODRUFF, PRESIDENT, MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY: Our campus grieves we will all grieve, and we will change over time, we cannot allow 
 
 this to continue to happen again.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, CNN's Adrienne Broaddus reporting from East Lansing in Michigan. There is growing curiosity and concern over what is now a series 
 
 of objects shot down in North American skies. U.S. services just got a briefing behind closed doors and we are getting a few new clues that is up 
 
 next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SULTAN AL-JABER, CEO, ABU DHABI NATIONAL OIL COMPANY: Artificial intelligence is reinventing the relationship between people and machines. 
 
 It is making industrial processes faster and smarter. And it is making energy much more efficient and much cleaner. We have an unprecedented 
 
 opportunity to engage the energy industry and a technological revolution that gets us to a climate positive future.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back to "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson live from the World Government Summit here in Dubai. And that was just one of 
 
 the keynote speeches we heard today. That was Sultan Al-Jaber, President of the upcoming COP28 conference that will be hosted right here in Dubai at 
 
 the end of this year.
 
We've been listening to many fascinating conversations here particularly those about AI technology and education. One Lowe's together and you really 
 
 do have some fascinating narratives. And we're going to get you some of that in the coming days.
 
Well, now though on our top story is the death toll in the devastating quake in Turkey and Syria. Balloons once again hope is calling out from the 
 
 ruins. Rescue teams in southern Turkey say that they are still hearing voices from under the rubble. That's more than a week after the disaster 
 
 began killing nearly 38,000 people.
 
Well, just over the border in what northwest Syria, you are looking at footage of the first UN team since the quake to cross into the country's 
 
 rebel held territory. President Bashar Al Assad has agreed to open the second crossing. We're learning a bit more about the three unidentified 
 
 objects shot down over North America over the weekend.
 
Last hour the U.S. Joint Chief of Staff confirmed a missile that was certified and one of the objects missed at first, but he says it landed 
 
 harmlessly in Lake Huron. General Mark Milley also said recovery efforts are still underway, but those three objects have not yet been retrieved.
 
Well, this comes a little more than a week after a suspected Chinese spy balloon was shot down and after a classified briefing just a short time 
 
 ago. Several U.S. senators are saying they believe there's no public threat. Natasha Bertrand has more on what all these mysterious sightings.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER (voice over): U.S. officials struggling to explain what exactly the U.S. military has been shooting out 
 
 of the sky.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to confirm what they are once we have collected the debris.
 
BERTRAND (voice over): Appearing to know more about what the so called objects are not.
 
JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS: We assessed whether they posed any kinetic threat to people 
 
 on the ground. They did not. We assessed whether they were sending any communication signals. We detected none. We looked to see whether they were 
 
 maneuvering or had any propulsion capabilities. We saw no signs of that.
 
BERTRAND (voice over): The Pentagon confirming for the first time in a memo to lawmakers on Monday that the object shot down over northern Canada was a 
 
 small metallic balloon with a tethered payload below it.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
BERTRAND (voice over): But its purpose and origin, and that of the two other objects shot down over Alaska and Michigan, still unexplained.
 
JUSTIN TRUDEAU, CANADIAN PRIME MINISTER: Obviously, there is some sort of pattern in there. The fact that we are seeing this, in a significant degree 
 
 over the past week, is a cause for interest and close attention.
 
BERTRAND (voice over): The mystery deepening so much by the day, that the White House felt compelled to announce that the objects are not 
 
 extraterrestrial.
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I just wanted to make sure we address this from the White House. I know there's been questions and 
 
 concerns about this, but there is no again, no indication of aliens or extra-terrestrial activity with these recent takedowns.
 
BERTRAND (voice over): That explanation not satisfying lawmakers who are demanding more information on where these objects came from and more 
 
 communication from the Commander in Chief.
 
REP. RAJA KRISHNAMOORTHI (D-IL): What we need to figure out and what they're going to answer for us is whether these are nefarious objects in 
 
 the sky from adversaries, or whether they might even be drones that are flown by research institutions or private companies for non-nefarious 
 
 purposes, or something else.
 
BERTRAND (voice over): For now, the White House reassuring the public that President Biden, while tight lipped is on the case.
 
KIRBY: We have been I think as transparent as we can be. We are laser focused on confirming their nature and purpose, including through intensive 
 
 efforts to collect debris in the remote locations where they have fallen.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Natasha Bertrand reporting there. CNN's National Security Analyst Beth Sanner is no stranger to what it takes to keep Americans safe. She's 
 
 former Deputy Director of National Intelligence. Thanks for joining us. You know--
 
BETH SANNER, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Thanks for having me.
 
ANDERSON: Our viewers will be somewhat fascinated by and perhaps confused by what is going on in the skies above North America at present. So tell me 
 
 what's your understanding if these objects don't aren't a threat to national security? Why are they shooting them down? And what are they?
 
SANNER: Well, I think there are multiple reasons why they're shooting them down. You know, one is that they're, they're coming into U.S. airspace, and 
 
 places were at an elevation where airplanes may fly. But I think that there's an underlying purpose here. And that is to deflect criticism, as 
 
 these objects are being seen.
 
And I do want to take just a second to explain that these objects probably unlike one of the commentators earlier in the show indicated that there's a 
 
 pattern here. I do not think that there's a pattern here. What has happened is that the way that the radars work, they've opened up the aperture, 
 
 they've taken off filters. And now we're just seeing a lot more of what is a very, very crowded sky over the United States and over many countries in 
 
 the world.
 
ANDERSON: So you would expect there are more objects similar to those that have been shot down or potentially more objects up it, thousands of them?
 
SANNER: Absolutely. You know, the intelligence community has to issue a report now, it's the second one they've done an Annual Report to Congress 
 
 on these unexplained aerial phenomena. They issued the last report in January. And in there, it said that U.S. military pilots had seen 250, 
 
 about 250 objects that were unidentified, in basically an 18 month period leading up to the end of last year.
 
And so those are in addition to balloons that they recognize. And so there's a lot in our skies right now. And we are going to see these things. 
 
 And we do need to decide in a much more concrete way, what poses a threat and make a more considered decision about what to shoot down. Every missile 
 
 costs almost half a million dollars.
 
ANDERSON: Wow, that's remarkable. You think this was a knee jerk reaction, do you under pressure?
 
SANNER: Well, we will see. I mean, I think that is my initial gut feeling is that maybe, maybe one of these or two of these did pose a hazard to air 
 
 traffic. But I think that we're trigger happy right now. And a lot of that has to do with domestic political pressure on President Biden to look 
 
 tough, and I don't think that's helpful. So we need to take a breath and be more considered now as we move forward.
 
ANDERSON: Fascinating. Beth, you describe these unexplained aerial phenomena. Our viewers might be less familiar with that term and more 
 
 familiar with the acronym UFO. Are we talking about the same thing here?
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
SANNER: We are. It's interesting that a couple years ago, we switched the lexicon from UFO to UAP, Unexplained Aerial Phenomena, I think in a way to 
 
 kind of lower the temperature a little bit and not think about every object we see as being from Little Green Men.
 
And part of that was we wanted at the community to lower the stigma about reporting these incidents, because they could be things that pose a threat, 
 
 even though they're not about what crazy people are seeing. And so it's a way of kind of professionalizing and taking that stigma away.
 
ANDERSON: What do you make of the Chinese accusations at present, that the U.S. itself is flying a spy balloon over Chinese airspace?
 
SANNER: Well, I do not think that is true. Two reasons, one is that the immediate response from the White House from the Military Spokesman John 
 
 Kirby, who's at the NSC was quite clear and precise. There was no wiggle room there it was, we do not do this.
 
And I think if we did, number one, I would probably know about it, and I don't. And number two, that clarity of the response indicates to me that we 
 
 do not. You know, we've we used to do this in the 50s and 60s. And I don't think anybody wants an international incident to shoot these things down. 
 
 We find planes close to the Chinese territorial waters and airspace, but we do not penetrate those. And there's a reason we don't want to have an 
 
 international incident.
 
ANDERSON: Beth, it's good to have you on, thank you very much indeed. Beth Sanner is in the house.
 
SANNER: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Well, next on "Connect the World" cries of censorship after Indian authorities rate the offices of the BBC, when his ruling party is 
 
 angry at the newscaster that is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Was it a simple search for tax documents or an attempt to intimidate and censor journalists? Well, that is the question being asked 
 
 today after Indian authorities burst into the New Delhi and Mumbai offices of the BBC. The raids were conducted by Indian tax authorities and provided 
 
 little explanation and what they were looking for.
 
The search came a month after the BBC aired a documentary critical of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Indian government has banned the 
 
 documentary from being shown in the country. CNN's Vedika Sud is tracking this story from New Delhi and she joins us now live.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
ANDERSON: Remind us what the documentary was about and why it is that Modi and his party are so angry about it.
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: Becky, I'm standing outside the BBC office in New Delhi. It's about 10.15. Before I tell you more about the controversy, I 
 
 just want you to know, that there still officials out there from the Income Tax department inside the BBC office in New Delhi. We don't know about 
 
 what's happening, really at the Mumbai office as I speak to you, but he is talking about the controversy.
 
A few weeks back there was a BBC documentary that aired, it was critical of the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was also blocked in terms of 
 
 public access to Indians here in the country. And it was called propaganda by the Indian government. They condemned the documentary they call it 
 
 propaganda.
 
Now, weeks later, we see these rates taking place. Now according to critics, their concern is that this is a crackdown on press freedom in 
 
 India under the Modi leadership. This is not what just one person is saying but the opposition political parties here in India saying other local 
 
 journalists and independent journalists are also saying.
 
But today, earlier in the day, you had the BJP spokesperson, the BJP is the ruling National Party here in India, the spokesperson came out and he 
 
 warned media houses to abide by the laws of the country. Here's what Gaurav Bhatia had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GAURAV BHATIA, BHARATIYA JANATA PARTY SPOKESMAN: No individual, no agency could be about the law of the country and in an ongoing action that is 
 
 being taken by the Income Tax department. Why is it that there is a tearing hurry by the opposition parties, especially the Congress Party to give a 
 
 clean chit to the agency concerned?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD: A lot of reactions coming in Becky, I want to take you through some of them. The Editors Guild of India has condemned the searches that are taking 
 
 place both in the offices in New Delhi and Mumbai. You have Amnesty International, that's come out. And it's called the raids and I'm going to 
 
 quote them here a blatant affront to freedom of expression.
 
Now the BBC earlier today had put out a press statement. They said that they had authorities of the tax authorities in both their offices in New 
 
 Delhi and Mumbai that they are fully cooperating Becky, and they are hoping that this issue will be resolved soon. But like I said, it's about 10.17 
 
 here in New Delhi.
 
And those officials are still inside the New Delhi office of the BBC. We'll have to wait and see how this pans out over the next few days and if there 
 
 is a comment that comes in an official comment from the Income Tax department on the searches that they're carrying out, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Vedika Sud is in New Delhi for you. Thank you. Well, the Israeli government's plans for new settlements have drawn condemnation from Western 
 
 eyes. Israel announced it will permit nearly 10,000 new settlement units. Officials from the U.S. from France, the UK, Germany and Italy say they 
 
 strongly oppose the plans calling them unilateral actions that will make existing tensions between Israelis and Palestinians even worse.
 
Meantime the Israel Defense Forces or the IDF say an Israeli soldier who was filmed assaulting a Palestinian activist in Hebron has now been 
 
 sentenced to 10 days in a military jail. This video taken by journalists Lawrence Wright, who writes for The New Yorker magazine, went viral after 
 
 Wright posted on Twitter. It shows two IDF soldiers manhandling activist - pushing him to the ground and one soldier kicking him before that soldier 
 
 is pushed away by other troops.
 
Well, in a statement the IDF said the soldier had asked a Palestinian or approached a military post to step away. And that the Palestinian started 
 
 cursing him right rejected that version of events saying the soldier initiated the encounter. Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi was greeted by 
 
 Chinese President Xi Jinping as he began a three day visit to China.
 
It's the first state visit by the Iranian leader to China in more than 20 years. Chinese state television reports the two leaders have already signed 
 
 documents promoting tourism and trade between their countries. Well, still to come Valentine's Day by the numbers from top gifts to dating app usage. 
 
 We have got the stats on what romance looks like in 2023.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
ANDERSON: Love is in the air today, as many people in parts of the world celebrate Valentine's Day thought to be named for one of several Christian 
 
 martyrs named Valentine. And since nothing says romance like senior data reporter, we've decided to bring in CNN's Harry Enten for more on this 
 
 holiday of love; he joins me from New York.
 
Look at Valentine's Day by the numbers, good to have you sir. We think of Valentine's Day as a day to get cozy together. But how many couples 
 
 actually sleep in the same room together at night these days? Is it clear?
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: You know, it's so funny, there's a poll for basically anything. And so it was a poll that recently came out 
 
 from the New York Times essentially, as you know, if you're living with someone, are you in fact, sleeping with them? And it turns out that 20 
 
 percent of couples are actually sleeping in different bedrooms at this point, although that is about the same share as it was 20 years ago.
 
But this isn't, you know, I Love Lucy it's not, you know, literally separate beds within the same bedroom. It's literally you're sleeping in a 
 
 different part of the house 20 percent of couples do so right now.
 
ANDERSON: OK, what's the trend these days on being part of a couple are more people or less people likely to be with someone than in years past?
 
ENTEN: Yes, it turns out at least here in the states. Again, we ask polls about basically anything. What you see is that a higher percentage of 25 to 
 
 54 year old, such as myself sort of in that prime age right before you reach all elderly.
 
And when you're not a kid, you might be living at home with your parents. Turns out that 38 percent of 25 to 54 year olds are living without a 
 
 partner that is way up from where we were in 1990, where it was just 29 percent. So it seems that at least more of prime age adults here in the 
 
 states are willing or are living alone at this point.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. I wonder what the figures are around the world. We'll have to look at these if indeed there's polling done on this stuff. What about 
 
 apps like hinge or e-harmony? OK, keep it I know, these, these are popular in the states. Have those changed the dating landscape or using them?
 
ENTEN: Yes, you know, young folks, people like myself are using them, you know, they're picking up their phone, like right over here. And U.S. adults 
 
 who have ever used a dating app, you know, you look, if you look at senior citizens, those 65 and older, just 13 percent have.
 
But if you look at those under the age of 30, look at that a majority 53 percent have in fact use a dating app. I can say I have in fact met a date 
 
 or two on a dating website or a dating app. But folks who are in the older subsets such as my mother, they met the old fashioned way through friends 
 
 and family.
 
ANDERSON: You making me feel old, you keep refining kids, that was youngsters like me, and I know I know you're a lot younger than I am. And 
 
 then your poor mum in the eldest of--
 
ENTEN: She is 76. She's just not that young.
 
ANDERSON: She's young at heart and the number is only a number one of the top love songs.
 
ENTEN: Yes.
 
ANDERSON: What did you go?
 
ENTEN: You know I was hoping that my uncle's song love will keep us together as on the list. But as it turns out, in fact, he is not one of the 
 
 top five love songs. Endless Love by Diana Ross and Lionel Richie is number one. I'll Make Love to You, Boyz II Men. How deep is Your Love by the Bee 
 
 Gees at number three, We Found Love by Rihanna and Silly Love Songs by Wings?
 
Those are the top love songs of all time at least according to Billboard. But "I will say Love Will Keep us Together" as my favorite. And when I'm 
 
 really feeling down, "Breaking Up Is Hard to Do" is another one of my favorites.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
ANDERSON: "Love Will Keep Us Together", I'll take that one. Good, good --. Thank you, sir, Harry Enten in the house for you folks.
 
ENTEN: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: That young Harry Enten. Catching attacks is pretty much the same across the world. Here in Dubai however, they plan on taking that to the 
 
 next level quite literally. The Ruler of Dubai Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum approved designs for air taxi stations. Yes, that means flying 
 
 taxis these aerial vehicles will see full passengers a pilot and will have a whopping top speed of 300 kilometers per hour.
 
Initial plans aimed connect four different areas in Dubai and allow passengers to avoid not only congested roads, but roads all together. So 
 
 come 2026, the promise is birds and planes may not be the only thing that you see in Dubai's skies. I am Becky Anderson. "One World" with Zain Asher 
 
 is up next. From the team working with me here, it's a very good evening.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
END