Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Nine People Shot, Including a One-Year-Old Baby, Near Beach in Florida; Russia Blames Ukraine for Alleged Drone Attack on Moscow; Today, Debt Limit Deal Faces Crucial House Rules Committee Vote. Aired 7-7:30a ET

Aired May 30, 2023 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The number one seed Denver Nuggets.
 <br>[07:00:01]
 
They said they had their bags packed for Denver and not to return to Miami and they're capitalizing on that planning ahead. Poppy?
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR:  Okay. Omar, thank you, friend.
 
Game 1, Heat versus the Nuggets, that is Thursday night, 8:30 P.M.
 
CNN THIS MORNING continues right now.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  At least nine people were wounded including three children after shooting broke out in Hollywood Beach, Florida.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Employees and customers tried to run toward the bathrooms and just waited.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  An altercation with guns with thousands of people around them is beyond reckless.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Thieves that were involved will be held accountable.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he has decided a date for the long-awaited counteroffensive by Ukrainian forces.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And from the Moscow (INAUDIBLE), several buildings sustained insignificant damage as a result of what he says were drone attacks.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Russia wants to follow the path of evil to the end. The world must see that terror is losing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  President Biden saying bipartisan deal to raise the debt ceiling and avoid the nation's first ever default will make it across the finish line.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I have serious concerns about the deal. My team and I are still reviewing it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We're a divided government right now and we had to compromise.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  House lawmakers have now delivered articles of impeachment against Attorney General Ken Paxton to the state Senate.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Every politician who supports this will inflict lasting damage.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is going to be the beginning of the end of his criminal reign or God help us.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The Vegas Golden Knights to the Stanley Cup Final for the second time in their six-year history.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Now, they will play the Florida Panthers.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It's a lot of fun coming. They're inconvenient with them every day.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They have to enjoy the moment, stay in the moment. They've earned it. And if they don't, the coaches will.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARLOW:  Well, good morning, everyone. It is the top of the hour, 7:00 A.M. Eastern here with my friend, Erica Hill. Good morning.
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR:  Good morning.
 
HARLOW:  You know all this stuff about basketball. You've been telling me all morning. Did you watch?
 
HILL:  No, I didn't watch, girl. I was in bed at 7:30, and it was amazing.
 
HARLOW:  That is amazing. I will take that over an NBA playoff game any night. But we'll get to the NBA Finals ahead in a little bit. But this morning, we do begin with very disturbing news. Nine people this morning are recovering after a mass shooting sent them running for their lives. This happened near the beach in Hollywood, Florida. New surveillance video shows the crowds on the boardwalk running as the gunfire rang out. The victims range in age from just 1 to 65. Police say one person has been detained. A manhunt is currently under way for a second suspect.
 
Let's begin with our Carlos Suarez. He is live in Hollywood, Florida, with more. I mean, one of the victims, a one-year-old.
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That's exactly right, Poppy and Erica. Good morning. So, Hollywood Police out here are not saying a whole lot about their investigation. They have said that they've identified two people believed to be tied to the shooting.
 
They said that this entire incident was a result of an argument between two groups of people when someone pulled out a gun and opened fire. The broad walk out here is lined with restaurants, hotels and bars. It is where thousands of folks gathered to celebrate the Memorial Day holiday and it is where cameras captured that shooting a little before 7:00 yesterday.
 
In the video, you can see these crowds of folks just running for safety after they heard the gunshots. Videos that were posted on social media showed some of the injured being treated on the sand.
 
Now, according to Hollywood Police, they had a number of officers in the area, in anticipation of these large crowds. And so they were able to get a lot of these folks that were hurt to a hospital. Here now is the mayor of Hollywood talking about what happened.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR JOSH LEVY, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA:  People come to enjoy a holiday weekend on the beach with their families. And to have people in complete reckless disregard of the safety of the public and to have an altercation with guns in a public setting with thousands of people around them is beyond reckless.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUAREZ:  So, authorities say that one person has been detained. It is still unclear at this hour exactly what these two groups of people were fighting over. Of the nine people that were shot, we're told that four of them are minors, including that one-year-old baby. The good news, Poppy and Erica, is that all nine of these people that were shot are recovering in a hospital and they're expected to be okay.
 
HARLOW:  We certainly hope they make a fast recovery. Carlos, thank you.
 
HILL:  Overnight, the Russian capital getting a first-hand sense of war after an alleged drone attack. So, you can see a plume of smoke rising. There you go. As you watch this, you can also see, if you look carefully, you can see a drone actually flying, there it is, over the city. You hear a man, see him there with his finger pointing at it out of his window. And then hear what appears to be a fragment of a drowned drone.
 <br>[07:05:04]
 
Russian state media says two people were injured in Moscow. Three residential buildings were damaged in that attack. Russian military officials are blaming Ukraine. It is something, though, that Ukraine denies.
 
The attack, of course, though comes just hours after yet another aerial assault on Kyiv. One woman was killed, 13 others injured.
 
CNN's Frederik Pleitgen is live in Kyiv this morning for us with more. So, Fred, we're going to get to what happened overnight in Kyiv, but can you just bring us up to speed a little bit on what you're hearing about the attack in Moscow? FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. I'm hearing actually that the folks in Moscow certainly are pretty concerned about what happened there. And those residential buildings that apparently were hit, they are actually in the sort of southern end of the Russian capital.
 
And what the Russians are saying is that, in total, there were eight UAVs or eight drones that were involved in this, and they say that three of them were taken down by electronic countermeasures. Essentially, they stopped the drones electronically. They went off course and then they crashed into open areas, most of them. And they also said they had to shoot five of them down with their air defense system. And, of course, as you can imagine, that's definitely not something that the Russians are used to, certainly something that it's a first time for them.
 
You guys have mentioned the Russians are blaming Kyiv for this. The Ukrainians are saying it wasn't them but they also say they believe incidents like this will happen again in the future.
 
HILL:  So, that's the reality there in Moscow. Meantime, you're at the scene of yet another drone strike there in Kyiv. What more do we know about that strike and what's the damage there on the ground?
 
PLEITGEN:  Yes. Well, you know what, it was quite a night here in Kyiv, I have to say, throughout hours of this night. There were these Shahed drones, which are Iranian-made drones that the Russians use, flying over the Ukrainian capital, with the Ukrainians trying to shoot them down. In fact, the building that you see behind me is substantially damaged. This is the area where one woman was actually killed inside that building by debris falling from a drone that was actually shot down.
 
And this is not the first time. In the past couple days, there have been several of these kinds of attacks, obviously terrifying the local population here. Here is what happened.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PLEITGEN (voice over):  Terrified children running for their lives as Russia unleashed another massive aerial attack on Ukrainian cities. But Ukraine says its air defense managed to shoot down all the ballistic missiles fired at the capital, Kyiv. And now, Ukraine's forces seem nearly ready for their own much-anticipated counteroffensive.
 
This weekend, Ukraine's top general, Valery Zaluzhny, releasing this video showing troops gearing up for battle and showcasing modern western weapons with a clear message, it's time to take back what's ours. And that's what these guys are training for.
 
This is a unit of the offensive guard of Ukraine's Interior Ministry. We have a clear motivation, the commander says. We defend our lands. This is our nation, our homeland. The offensive guard is mustering tens of thousands troops, they say, training to storm trenches and evacuate casualties, which they know they're bound to have in the tough battles ahead.
 
What these guys are practicing here no doubt will become a reality for the Ukrainian Armed Forces very soon, as Kyiv says it will start a massive counteroffensive to take back all of their territory, including Crimea.
 
The Ukrainians already seem to be stepping up strikes on possible Russian supply lines in occupied areas, Russian-installed officials claiming Ukrainian missile attacks against targets around Berdiansk and Mariupol in Southeastern Ukraine in the past days.
 
It's just the beginning, a top adviser to Ukraine's presidency tells me. Everything that is happening now is a precursor for a counterattack, a necessary precursor where the intensity of fire increases. And he lays out bold aims for the counteroffensive. It will end undoubtedly on the borders of Ukraine as they were in 1991 with the de-occupation of Crimea and with the beginning of a massive process of transformation of Russia's political system.
 
But for now, resilience remains the key for the people in Ukraine cities. These newlyweds had just tied their knot and were on the way to their celebration when the air raid sirens went off. So, they just continued to celebrate in the bomb shelter, vowing not to let Russian rockets ruin the best day of their lives.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
PLEITGEN (on camera):  So, as you guys can see, a lot of resilience here on the part of the local population. Of course, nevertheless, these strikes do frighten a lot of people. I was able to speak to the mayor of Kyiv just a couple minutes ago, and he called the strikes that happened here nothing more than terrorism. Erica?
 
HILL:  It is really something. And a reminder, too, with that wedding of how life is continuing despite all of these horrors. Fred, I really appreciate it, thank you.
 <br>[07:10:00]
 
HARLOW:  Meantime, back here at home, the debt limit deal about to face a crucial hurdle on Capitol Hill today. The powerful House Rules Committee is set to decide if the bill will even make it to the House floor. Some of the deal's fiercest Republican opponents are on this committee, Congressman Ralph Norman and Chip Roy. These are the same hardliners that Speaker Kevin McCarthy agreed to put on the Rules Committee in a deal to win the speakership back in January. Listen to what Congressman Roy told Fox News ahead of today's meeting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. CHIP ROY (R-TX):  I'm going to be making that loud and clear to my Republican colleagues that this is not a deal we should be taking. The whole point of the rules committee was to say we were going to have a power sharing, where we had a representation of the entire conference, and I'm not thrilled with this bill right now. So, I'm not going into the Rules Committee with a very positive view towards this bill.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  CNN Congressional Correspondent Lauren Fox is tracking the latest on Capitol Hill. Lauren, good morning to you.
 
So, McCarthy wants this vote tomorrow. They have got a sort of deadline from Treasury of June 5th. This all has to be wrapped up. Where does this go?
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. This Rules Committee meeting today is really crucial, Poppy. The makeup of this committee is nine Republicans, four Democrats. And, typically, the way it works is that conservatives are the ones who get these rules out of the committee and put them on the House floor. That's how it's been happening all year.
 
That's the tradition of this committee that the majority party is responsible for the rule to get it to the floor. But in this case, we are watching very closely some of those key conservatives because what you're hearing from Chip Roy is that he's very upset about this legislation. You're hearing the same from Representative Ralph Norman.
 
And we're going to be keeping a close eye on another conservative on that committee, Thomas Massie, and whether or not he becomes the critical tie breaking vote in this committee today when it comes to getting it out of the rules.
 
So, one thing to keep in mind, earlier this year, when Thomas Massie was asked how he was going to use his position on the rules committee, this was back in January, he told my colleague, Melanie Zanona, quote, I would be reluctant to try to use the Rules Committee to achieve a legislative outcome, particularly if it doesn't represent a large majority of our caucus. I don't ever intend to use my position on there to hold somebody hostage, to hold legislation hostage.
 
Now, his office is not saying how he is going to vote today in this committee, but, obviously, that comment back in January, giving some insight into how at least Thomas Massie is viewing his role on this Rules Committee today. If it makes it out of the Rules Committee, we expect it will have the votes it needs to pass on the House floor with multiple sources telling me that Republicans are confident they could get or are at least locking down about 150 or more Republicans. Poppy?
 
HARLOW:  Okay. Lauren, thank you very much.
 
HILL:  Joining us now, Congressman Brendan Boyle, he's a Democrat from Pennsylvania, the ranking member of the House Budget Committee, and he's also been in close contact with White House negotiators throughout this debt ceiling fight, throughout this process. Good to have you with us this morning.
 
Just picking up there where my colleague, Lauren Fox, left off, are you concerned at all about the House Rules Committee meeting today? Chip Roy was very clear this is, in his words, not a deal he should be making. REP. BRENDAN BOYLE (D-PA):  Well, I will be testifying in front of the Rules Committee given that I'm the ranking member in the budget committee. I fully expect that those two ultra right members, Chip Roy and Ralph Norman, will be voting no. Even if a third Republican votes no, there is always the possibility that a Democratic member votes yes. So, certainly, I will be very interested, as I'll be testifying for hours and hours, but I am confident that one way or the other, the math will add up and that this bill will be sent to the entire House floor for us to vote on, and I believe pass tomorrow.
 
HILL:  So, you believe it will pass. But getting there, let's say, gets to the House floor, you're confident it's going to happen. As you know, fellow members of the progressive caucus, the House Progressive Caucus, are not feeling great about it. Congresswoman Jayapal was very clear with my colleague, Jake Tapper, on Sunday, saying, yes, Democrats should be worried here. Congressman Bowman yesterday telling Wolf he has serious concerns, and as of 12 hours ago, he was still undecided. President Biden yesterday said he doesn't know if he can get progressives on board. Where do things stand this morning?
 
BOYLE:  Well, look, if I had the unilateral ability to write a budget, it wouldn't look exactly like this. There are some provisions in there that I don't agree with. But when we look in totality at the entire bill, when we look at the number of things extreme, things that Speaker McCarthy and freedom caucus or far right members were pushing, when we look at the prospect of a first-ever default in American history that would truly be a catastrophic event, I think taken in totality, you will see enough Democratic support to make sure this bill passes.
 <br>[07:15:00]
 
HILL:  So, is that your message to progressives that there's enough in here you can deal with, vote for it?
 
BOYLE:  Well, first, I don't tell my colleagues on the Democratic side or Republican side for that matter how to vote. I respect each one of my Colleagues that come with their decision. The toughest vote in Congress is not necessarily on a controversial issue. The toughest vote is on something that you agree with some parts of the bill and you disagree with others.
 
Those are always for me the toughest votes. I have spoken to a number of my Democratic colleagues, whether they're moderate or progressive or somewhere in between. And I think each of us are wrestling with a piece of legislation that is neither perfect nor awful but somewhere in between and attempting to arrive at the best decision that reflects our districts as well as our values.
 
HILL:  So, in those conversations, again, I know you said you're not telling people thousand vote, but you are having these conversations. I would imagine that your colleagues are expressing some of their concerns, as you point out, some of their frustrations. As you're having those conversations, is it your sense that despite some of those reservations they will, in fact, be voting for this? BOYLE:  It depends on -- it depends entirely on the individual. There certainly is no way to kind of with one broad brush paint the entire caucus' view.
 
I will say if there is unanimity, it's on the fact that we're even stuck in this position that just literally a few days before what would be a catastrophic default that we still have not raised the nation's debt ceiling. There is also a frustration on my part and others that we did not take care of this when Democrats had the power to do so for a couple years. I think there's a great resolve, a number of my Democratic colleagues, to make sure we are never again stuck in this awful situation.
 
HILL:  Are you confident that that will happen, that you will never again be stuck in that situation?
 
BOYLE:  Yes. I do believe that we're going to learn this lesson. Remember, just how dangerous this has been, the most dangerous moment in the debt ceiling since 2011. There's a real possibility that this all had gone south had this deal not come together at the very last second. There's no question that the debt ceiling serves no purpose. It needs to be dramatically reformed. This is an incredibly dysfunctional process that in the end achieves nothing other than avoiding disaster.
 
HILL:  And I know you've proposed to get rid of it all together in the past. As we look at where we stand, though, this morning, I found it interesting, your former colleague, Congressman Max Rose of New York, was with us yesterday morning talking about this deal and the fact that you have people upset on both sides, that in some ways, and I'm paraphrasing here, this shows that it was actually perhaps a healthy negotiation, that this is a true bipartisan deal in many respects because you don't have one side, you know, winning, if you will, much more than the other. Is that how you look at it as well?
 
BOYLE:  I would say that -- and it's very unfortunate that Speaker McCarthy conflated the debt ceiling issue, which we absolutely have to raise, we've raised 78 times since 1960. There is no question we have to raise it. He conflated that with what is a normal budget negotiation that would have been taking place in August and September any way.
 
The reality is, with a narrowly Republican house and narrowly Democratic Senate and Democratic White House, the budget was never going to be exactly what I would want and exactly what Speaker McCarthy and MAGA Republicans would want. This budget probably reflects that it is somewhere between those two options.
 
HILL:  Congressman Brendan Boyle, I appreciate your time this morning. Thank you.
 
BOYLE:  Thank you.
 
HARLOW:  Erica, that's really interesting to hear him say, just like we heard Pramila Jayapal tell Jake on Sunday, the Democrats should have done this when they could have, right? And maybe next time. Great interview.
 
Ahead, Ron DeSantis about to make his debut on the campaign trail as a presidential candidate after a bit of a glitchy start. He goes to Iowa.
 
HILL:  Plus, the desperate search for survivors still under way in Iowa after an apartment building partially collapsed. And there's a new report this morning, rescue teams found a woman alive in that wreckage after she had been trapped for more than a day. We have those details.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:20:00]
 
HILL:  New this morning, a ninth person, we're learning, has been rescued from that partially collapsed apartment building in Davenport, Iowa. We have some new video in here to show you. The Guad City Times says the woman had called her daughter from the fourth floor of the building. She was ultimately rescued by the fire department more than 24 hours after that collapse.
 
Owners of the building are facing demolition orders on the property today. Officials though say there are still people who remain unaccounted for and so now they may reassess that timeline. Residents also describing the terror they felt as parts of the building just caved in on Sunday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I was sleeping and then I heard a great, big noise. I opened up the door to my apartment and it was like daylight, daylight.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  What was going through my mind was the other people that's trapped in there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HILL:  So scary. That collapse led to a large natural gas leak, water also flooding into the building. So, fire officials right now are still trying to determine the cause.
 
HARLOW:  So, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis is going to sort of launch again, this time in Iowa. He will be there on his campaign tour tonight. DeSantis set to take the stage in Des Moines before he crisscrosses the state over the next two days. It's his second trip to Iowa this month, but his first since officially launching last week.
 
And just days from now, the governor plans to hit two more early primary states, New Hampshire and South Carolina.
 
Steve Contorno on the trail, you're in Clive, Iowa, this morning, right? What can you tell us about the plans DeSantis has for today?
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER:  Well, Poppy, as you said, this will be a much more traditional campaign kickoff than the digital launch we saw last week. And it will be our first glimpse into how DeSantis frames his message on the campaign trail.
 
Over the weekend and in the days since his launch, he has taken a much more aggressive posture toward Donald Trump than really we have ever seen from him in the past.
 <br>[07:25:06]
 
He accused the former president of being bad on the economy, of raising the national debts, of his COVID policies hurting businesses, of passing up criminal justice reform bill he said is soft on crime. We have never really seen him go after the former president in these kinds of terms before, but this is the message that he brought to conservative media in all the interviews he has done over the weekend. Whether or not that is the same message that he brings to the campaign trail, that's what we're going to find out tonight, Poppy.
 
HARLOW:  Talk about what he's going to do in New Hampshire, South Carolina. Obviously, the early states is what he's hitting. But, again, this is really an introduction to voters who weren't on that Twitter Spaces announce last week about who he is and how he governs.
 
CONTORNO:  Yes. And a lot of these voters already heard of Governor DeSantis. He has great name recognition for a first-time candidate, but they haven't had a chance yet to really see him in person. And that's so critical to these early voting states, especially a state like New Hampshire, which really expects the candidates to come there and talk to people, kiss babies, go into living rooms, talk to as many voters as possible.
 
So, he is going to spend Thursday crisscrossing through New Hampshire. That is a state that is so critical in these early contests. It's a state that launched Donald Trump in 2016. And then from there, he'll go to South Carolina, another key early voting state.
 
That state, though, has two Republicans who are already in the race, former Governor of South Carolina Nikki Haley, current Senator Tim Scott. So, whether and how DeSantis is able to navigate this growing field, defining a lane for himself in these early primary states, we're going to get a first look at that this week.
 
HARLOW:  Thank you, Steve. I appreciate it. Enjoy Iowa.
 
Well, the Texas house is delivering articles of impeachment against Attorney General Ken Paxton to the Texas Senate and a timeline for the trial has been set. We'll get the latest from Texas.
 
HILL:  Plus, happening today, an emergency veterinary summit at Churchill Downs, the home, of course, of the Kentucky Derby, this after a dozen horses were euthanized at the track over a one-month span. Those new details just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:30:00]