Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: China Tops Expectations with 4.5 Percent Annualized Growth in Q1; Sudanese Armed Forces Issue Conflicting Statements about 24-Hour Ceasefire; FOX News Defamation Trial Kicks Off with Jury Selection; Global Guardian CEO: Medical Support is Evaporating; U.N. Document: Gunmen in Khartoum Storm Homes of People Working International Organization; U.S. Stocks Mostly Higher: China GDP and Earnings in Focus. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired April 18, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST, FIRST MOVE: A warm welcome to "First Move", fantastic to have you with us for a special Animal Kingdom start of the 
 
 program today on the "First Move" farm. This Tuesday, FOX or systems go for the start of the FOX News Dominion defamation trial in the U.S. state of 
 
 Delaware jury selection set to begin today as talks of a last minute settlement recede.
 
Lion Chinese GDP roaring back in the first quarter up a better than expected 4.5 percent amid strong consumer spending but a bit of weakness 
 
 behind the main number we'll explain. Also bees, consumers making a beeline for Apple's first physical store in India, the tech world buzzing over 
 
 Apple's new high yield savings account too.
 
Will it be a sting at the bottom line of some of the bigger banks? Dan Ives of Wedbush Securities will be here to discuss it all. And of course, dog in 
 
 bank earnings today a rough Q1 for Goldman Sachs but fetching results from Bank of America. Yes, --.
 
Goldman Sachs set to fall some 3 percent after missing on revenues deal making actually and bond trading was sore spots. Bank of America meanwhile, 
 
 higher pre market after posting a strong set of results, even as it announced $20 billion in deposit outflows and they're not the only one.
 
According to the FT Charles Schwab, State Street and M&amp;T Bank have seen customers pull a total of $68 billion in deposits tempted by higher 
 
 interest rates from money market funds and other financial products. That's probably OK for the bigger banks less so of course, for the smaller ones, 
 
 as we've long been discussing, because of course lending and profits will be squeezed at some of those smaller banks as a result.
 
So that's something certainly we'll continue to watch. All this plus, slow growth bears and sticky inflation suggests a continued battle between Wall 
 
 Street bulls and bears, but it is as you can see a mostly higher U.S. open on tap after Monday's leopard leap forward. Europe high too, after a spotty 
 
 Asian handover, I'm stopping now.
 
But the lion's share of our attention today does begin in China with China posting growth, as I mentioned, a 4.5 percent in the first quarter that's 
 
 compared to data from a year ago driven by strong consumer spending. The solid rebound, comes after Beijing ended its zero COVID policy back in 
 
 December.
 
And Ivan Watson joins us now. Ivan, plenty of speculation that China could if they continue in this manner, exceed their 5 percent growth target for 
 
 this year. The question is, is it sustainable? What do you make of the numbers?
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I mean, they are being welcomed, I think, the 4.5 percent GDP growth rate in the first 
 
 quarter of this year better than what many analysts had predicted. And what happens in the world's second largest economy affects the rest of us around 
 
 the world.
 
So this is welcome news to many, but I think there are a number of statistics that were published today by the Chinese government that 
 
 indicate that this is kind of an unequal recovery that China is experiencing after the end of its COVID restrictions, for example, the 
 
 growth was driven very much by what experts are describing as a spending spree consumer spending, which shot up in March some 10.6 percent retail 
 
 sales.
 
I mean, that's big. And it just shows that there was probably a lot of pent up demand and a fair amount of consumer confidence as well. But then look 
 
 at this final figure here of the youth unemployment for March 19.6 percent, the second highest number ever recorded, which suggests some big problems 
 
 on the horizon there.
 
So the International Monetary Fund, it is saying that China is rebounding strongly, it is predicting 5.2 percent growth for China for this year. And 
 
 certainly what we're seeing so far is an improvement from last year, where I think the GDP grew at only about 3 percent for the entire year.
 
And just to give you some context, think back to April of last year at the height of the COVID lockdown. The City of Shanghai with a population of 25 
 
 million people sold zero cars, according to automobile sales associations there.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
So that you have a tremendous amount of pent up demand that is now being unleashed the statisticians from the Chinese government. They are some of 
 
 the ones that are warning, however, that there are some problems in the economy. Take a listen to what the spokesman had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FU LINGHUI, SPOKESPERSON OF CHINA'S NATIONAL BUREAU OF STATISTICS: But we must also see that the international environment is still complex. There 
 
 are uncertainties in the growth of external demand, constraints brought by the lack of domestic market demand still exist, and the price industrial 
 
 product is still falling.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WATSON: So what are these complexities again, youth unemployment at a very high level 19.6 percent come June, estimates that you'll have close to 12 
 
 million new graduates from universities who are going to be out in the job market looking for jobs. And another indicator of what the challenges are.
 
You've got a state government run investment up more than 10 percent this month, from last year. And then private investment up and anemic 0.6 
 
 percent suggesting there is some real confidence problems in the entrepreneurial class, possibly driven by the government's crackdowns on 
 
 the financial and tech industries over the course of the last year.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, so many great points in there. Ivan, thank you. The beauty and the challenge of a controlled economy and we're always a little bit 
 
 cautious of how far we can perhaps trust and focus on some of this data. But when the Chinese government themselves are admitting one in five young 
 
 people are unemployed, you know, you have a challenge.
 
Ivan, great to have you with us! Thank you so much for that. OK, here in the United States, the FBI has arrested two Chinese Americans for allegedly 
 
 running a secret Police station in New York's Chinatown. U.S. Prosecutors have also charged dozens of others with working to silence Chinese 
 
 dissidents. Paula Reid joins us on this. So Paula, the movie script on this one writes itself. What more do we know? And how is this discovered?
 
PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: It does. It's something right out of a spy novel and the Justice Department says these cases are 
 
 indicative of China's expanded espionage efforts here on the U.S. soil. There are three separate cases here. The first, as you mentioned, two men 
 
 U.S. citizens were charged with running a secret Police station here in the U.S. in Chinatown, where they tried to identify, track and harass 
 
 dissidents.
 
In a separate case, the U.S. government charged dozens of officials connected to China's National Security Operations. With also harassing 
 
 dissidents in this case, they alleged that they were building social media profiles in some cases, posing as average Americans weighing in on anything 
 
 from foreign policy to George Floyd.
 
But these accounts would not only promote the People's Republic of China, but also attack adversaries in some circumstances, issuing death threats 
 
 that successfully dissuaded some people from attending pro-democracy demonstrations.
 
And then there's yet another example where the Justice Department has charged several people, including CNN has learned an Executive at Zoom for 
 
 interrupting and disrupting calls, trying to be arranged by dissidents, including one meeting to discuss commemorating the massacre at Tiananmen 
 
 Square.
 
Now that Zoom Executive was previously charged, but in this latest round, they charge nine additional people. And the Justice Department says all of 
 
 this just goes beyond the bounds of the standard nation state conduct.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's taking place here, of course, I mean, for some balance here, the Chinese Foreign Ministry is dismissed the reports as a 
 
 political manipulation, which I think perhaps you would expect on this point, what happens now, Paula?
 
REID: It'll be really interesting to see if they're able to bring anyone who's not already here and hasn't been arrested to justice. And the Justice 
 
 Department has often faced questions about whether when they charge people connected to a state sponsored organization in China or other countries.
 
What it all means is it just symbolic will they ever see the inside of a courtroom and the Justice Department says look, they're playing the long 
 
 game here. And this is meant to deter this kind of behavior in the future. They believe that people here should enjoy the freedoms that they enjoy and 
 
 not be subjected to this kind of harassment and again some threats.
 
CHATTERLEY: Paula, great to have you with us. Paula Reid there, thank you. OK to sit down now, why days of violence between two warring generals have 
 
 left at least 180 people dead and 1800 injured. One explosion captured live on TV since smoke billowing into the sky over Khartoum.
 
The Sudanese army forces survey issued conflicting statements about a possible 24-hour ceasefire to go into effect later on Tuesday. The 
 
 bombardment has destroyed civilian planes at the International Airport. Nima Elbagir is following events for us once again.
 
Nima, great to have you with us conflicting reports about whether or not the armed forces will adhere to this hoped for ceasefire. What more can you 
 
 tell us?
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Julia, after we began to get those conflicting statements from the armed 
 
 forces the fighting intensified. It absolutely ramped up those we were speaking to. It was so strong that I could hear the thoughts coming through 
 
 those walls. It's just absolutely appalling and these people are trapped inside their homes.
 
If they were to leave, there would be no way for them to get any kind of medical care. And we were able to speak to doctors on the ground in Sudan 
 
 to give a picture of what it's like to be targeted for attempting to save lives. Take a look at this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELBAGIR (voice over): Sudan's military with a show of strength over the Capital Khartoum. As birdsong and artillery fire -- this country roiled in 
 
 recent years by conflict and coups is once again the plaything of strongmen and what the military is calling an attempted coup.
 
Abdel Fattah al-Burhan Sudan's Military's leader is fighting for dominance with Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known as Hemedti, who leads the paramilitary 
 
 rapid support forces, which gained notoriety in the Western Darfur region, and it is the most vulnerable who are paying --.
 
Two doctor's organizations say that in Khartoum both sides have head hospitals in the fighting. At least half a dozen, though both sides denied 
 
 CNN obtained eyewitness accounts from doctors on the ground, who told CNN that the paramilitary rapid support force directly targeted a hospital 
 
 where wounded Armed Forces soldiers and their families were being treated, including one doctor who says she witnessed the RSF approach -- in hospital 
 
 in Central Khartoum.
 
ELBAGIR (voice over): I have to be strong enough to speak to you; you're the one that's going to tell the world what's happening to us. The 
 
 evacuation was chaos. We were running a soldiers were shouting run and then someone else would yell stop it's not safe but what choice did we have?
 
Three separate doctors that describe to us coming under intense bombardment the country's central committee of doctors tells CNN that with no doctors 
 
 to tell them the dead and injured are left to rot in their beds. And the Sudan doctor's trade union called the targeting of hospitals and the 
 
 housing of military personnel there.
 
A clear breach of International Humanitarian Law, a charge both sides denied. Both military leaders now fighting for control were key allies in 
 
 subverting the country's Nascent Democracy after the popular uprising in 2019, which deposed Sudan's longtime dictator, Omar Al-Bashir, who now 
 
 languishes in prison.
 
The memories of those protests and the symbolic photo that became its emblem, I slowly fading as has the promised transition from military to 
 
 democratic civilian rule.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hello Assalamu Alaikum--
 
ELBAGIR (voice over): But in an interview with CNN from inside army HQ, the leader of Sudan's Military tells me that the RSF militia is staging and 
 
 attempted coup.
 
ABDEL FATTAH AL-BURHAN, LEADER OF SUDAN'S MILITARY: Yesterday and today a humanitarian ceasefire proposal was put forward and agreed upon. Sadly, he 
 
 did not abide by it. You can hear right now the attempts to storm the Army headquarters, and indiscriminate mortar attacks. He's using the 
 
 humanitarian pause to continue the fight.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I asked him why the Sudanese people should trust him, given his previous partnership with Commander --.
 
AL-BURHAN: The Sudanese Army is the people's army. It is not owned by specific people or specific organizations.
 
ELBAGIR (voice over): General Burhan also committed to a return to civilian. The leader of the rapid support forces also told CNN this weekend 
 
 that he wanted to ensure democratic.
 
GENERAL MOHAMED HAMDAN DAGALO, LEADER OF PARAMILITARY RAPID SUPPORT FORCES: I don't want to be the leader of the army. There's a framework agreement 
 
 between all the Sudanese stakeholders that should be adhered to. I don't want to lead anything.
 
ELBAGIR (voice over): Neither general could tell us when the people of Sudan could expect this deadly fight to end while many -- without water, 
 
 food, electricity and no way to bury their dead.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELBAGIR: You can hear Julia the way that that doctors voice was cracking the fear in her voice and that is the fear that is gripping people across 
 
 Sudan's capital and across much of the country as news emerges via this the Sudanese Armed Forces statements that they are seeking reinforcements from 
 
 Garrison's outside the Capitol, so this is only going to get worse in the coming days, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I think you're asking the right question there. You really fight for the people and for peace or for power. Nima, great to have you 
 
 with us! Thank you so much for that.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
OK, to Russia now, a court has rejected American Journalist Evan Gershkovich's appeal against his pre-trial detention the U.S. Ambassador to 
 
 Russia strongly criticizing the decision.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LYNNE TRACY, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA: I was able to meet Evan yesterday at afford of a prison. It was the first time we were granted consular 
 
 access since his wrongful detention more than two weeks ago. I can report that he is in good health and remain strong despite his circumstances. The 
 
 charges against Evan are baseless. And we call on the Russian Federation to immediately release him.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Matthew Chance joins us now. Matthew, I guess no surprise that this appeal was rejected given where he is and what he's accused of. What 
 
 did you make of the first glimpse of him? He looked tired, but he seemed to be positive smiling for reporters and what next?
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I mean, you're right. It's the first glimpse that we've heard of Evan Gershkovich in 
 
 several weeks, certainly the first proper glimpse since he was detained at the end of March and charged with espionage. He really did look very 
 
 relaxed in the there but obviously, he faces an enormous ordeal in front of him.
 
The espionage charges, if he's found guilty, carry a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. And he's currently being held at Lefortovo complex in 
 
 central Moscow, which is notorious holding facility. And that's what this appeal was about. It was about trying to get him out of Lefortovo.
 
And so what his defense team offered is bail of 50 million rubles, which is about 600 or so 1000 U.S. dollars, or possibly having his detention reduced 
 
 to house arrest. Both of those options were rejected by the Russian courts, the courts in Moscow. And so Evan Gershkovich, this U.S. reporter will 
 
 continue to wait things out in the force about prison in Moscow, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: And how long is that, in terms of waiting it out? How long before actually we could perhaps see this come to trial? Or of course, the 
 
 negotiations, I'm sure behind the scenes to try and free him progress.
 
CHANCE: Well, you're right. He's been designated as unlawfully detained, wrongfully detained in the United States, which opens up a whole channel of 
 
 negotiations with the Russian authorities from the U.S. point of view, to try and secure his release. Now, he's been remanded until the end of May.
 
And that's when it's expected his trial may begin, although it can be pushed back further, if the prosecutors feel that they need more time to 
 
 assemble the evidence against him evidenced by the way that that hasn't been made public. And the Russians have made it quite clear that they will 
 
 not even countenance the idea of a prisoner swap.
 
For instance, or of having ghost which being released until the trial process has reached an end. You know, that they're basically not going to 
 
 trade him until he's been found guilty or it isn't, of the espionage charges against him.
 
CHATTERLEY: Matthew, great to have you with us. Thank you so much for that. Matthew Chance there meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin making a 
 
 rare visit to Southern Ukraine. The Kremlin saying, he met with Russian troops at a military base in the Kherson region.
 
His trip comes at a critical stage in the war with Ukraine expected to launch a spring offensive. OK, still to come here on "First Move", court is 
 
 finally in session for the historic Fox News defamation trial. We'll discuss what will happen and who we might see, after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move", after a one-day delay Fox News is defamation trial began just a few moments ago. Opening statements were 
 
 originally due to be heard Monday but at the weekend, the judge pushed back the start without giving an explanation.
 
Dominion voting systems accuses Fox of knowingly airing false claims about Dominions voting machines after Donald Trump lost the 2020 election. Fox, 
 
 for their part is denying any wrongdoing saying the U.S. Constitution protects the right to free speech. Dominion is suing for $1.6 billion in 
 
 damages.
 
Danny Freeman joins us now. Danny, -- they might eventually and yesterday on the show we were discussing, perhaps the prospect of a settlement 
 
 preventing this trial from going ahead. It does look like it is now though. I read this morning that dominion is dropping claims of lost profit 
 
 damages, but still is asking for $1.6 billion. Can you help us understand what's going on because this number is big?
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, my pleasure, Julia, good morning. What I'll say is that remember that $1.6 billion, that was always the 
 
 figure that dominion was asking for. That was always the big battle they were hoping to seek in this defamation case, but part of that has been $600 
 
 million dollars in lost contracts or lost profits.
 
And the billion dollars was always for loss of reputational damage. Well, we were able to confirm over the weekend through court filings that 
 
 dominion is actually dropping the argument that it lost $600 million due to lost profits and contracts. But they're still maintaining at this point 
 
 that they are seeking $1.6 million in damages.
 
So we're hopefully going to get a preview this today rather, I should say in opening statements as to how exactly they plan on justifying that if 
 
 they're going to stick with the reputational damage claim basically, for that entire sum of money. But I should say, Fox, still says that all of 
 
 that sum of money that dominion is proposing, that is inflated.
 
They don't agree with, you know, even getting to a billion, let alone 1.6. So that's going to be one of the interesting parts of this case is that we 
 
 hope to see unfold, not only today in opening statements that should happen after jury selection, which just began, as you said, a few moments ago.
 
And of course, as this trial goes, remember, we should be expecting this trial to last maybe as long as six weeks. So there's plenty of time to get 
 
 into the specifics of that damages. I should say, jury selection, of course this morning, so important because the jury will ultimately be responsible 
 
 for determining if those damages of $1.6 billion is appropriate in this case, Julia?
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's such a great point. I mean, $1.6 billion is a lot of money. But you've got to win first before we even were for even get to that 
 
 point. Do we have any sense of timing on when we'll likely hear from some of the anchors, perhaps from Rupert Murdoch himself because I think this is 
 
 when it's really going to get interesting?
 
FREEMAN: Yes, that's a good question, Julia. Listen, at this point, all we know is that opening statements should be beginning today. And our sources 
 
 tell us that that should take up the bulk of the day. So you probably wouldn't expect to see any of these high profile witnesses that you're 
 
 talking about today.
 
But again, Dominion is put on their list of potential witnesses. Rupert Murdoch, the Chairman of the Fox Corporation, Suzanne Scott, President, CEO 
 
 of FOX, as well! And then some of the high profile television personalities that we all know Sean Hannity, Tucker Carlson, Lauren Ingram.
 
They are all on the list to potentially be called, but I should say, Julia, it's interesting we saw yesterday. So I should say we're standing right now 
 
 outside of the Wilmington courthouse. This is the front and there's a lot of media here. You can't enter this courthouse without the entire media 
 
 eyes of the world seeing you walk in.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
However, we saw yesterday in the back of the courthouse for some high profile are sensitive witnesses sometimes they set up a tent specifically 
 
 where these type of witnesses can come in and enter into the court basically out of the public guy.
 
Well, that is out there. So the question now is will we actually see some of those high profile folks, if they're called to the witness stand 
 
 actually walk through these front doors behind me, Julia?
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, perhaps not. Danny, great to have you with us! Thank you, Danny Freeman there. Got it right second time. OK, and onto another mega 
 
 media battle with political implications. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, a potential U.S. presidential candidate still fuming over Disney's move to 
 
 protect its economic autonomy at Walt Disney World.
 
Well, DeSantis says Disney is taking his state for a ride on a Monday discussed an array of possible ways to get back at the company. Take a 
 
 listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RON DESANTIS, FLORIDA GOVERNOR: Come to think of it now people are like, well, there's what should we do with this land? And so you know, it's like, 
 
 OK, kids. I mean, people have said, you know, maybe create a state park and maybe try to do more amusement parks. Somebody even said, like, maybe you 
 
 need another state prison. Who knows? I mean, I just think that the possibilities are endless.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Steve Contorno joins us now from St. Petersburg, Florida. Steve, good to have you with us! Was he joking? Let's be clear, or do you 
 
 think that was a veiled threat?
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: You know, it's hard to tell with Governor DeSantis, Julia, because when you go, he's constantly throwing out these 
 
 ideas that seem like they're like he's just floating them as trial balloons. And then suddenly, they happen. He did that with those flights 
 
 that took immigrants from the border to Martha's Vineyard that became an international story.
 
That started as a joke line in some of his speeches, and then suddenly down the road. He was taking those actions. So while clearly it was sort of seen 
 
 as a veiled threat. The Governor did lay out a number of concrete things he intends to do in the coming weeks to hurt Disney and get them to cave in 
 
 this battle that has been going on for a year.
 
He has threatening to pass a bill that would revoke the bill, the agreements that Disney has passed in recent weeks to try to protect its 
 
 autonomy. He is suggesting that they might go after Disney's utilities in the area as well and potentially sell them off to other private companies.
 
He's threatening to tax Disney's vast properties around its theme parks. So he has laid out a whole host of more concrete ideas in addition to the sort 
 
 of these trial balloons on the ones that are getting a lot of attention in the last 24 hours.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and you do raise a good point what starts is seemingly a joke and a traveling has, on occasion turned into a policy or a push at 
 
 least. Michael Steele, who has a podcast on MSNBC, and a Former Republican National Committee Chairman tweeted something that I thought was important.
 
He said, so you want to analyze putting a state prison next to Disney? When family stopped visiting and Disney's $75 billion impact $5.8 billion tax 
 
 revenue drop. It's 75,000 employees face layoffs and 463,000 jobs are also imperiled what would your analytics say caused that to happen? WTF, Dumbo. 
 
 Steve, that's sort of punchy because there are economic costs to upsetting Disney? It's why they're so powerful.
 
CONTORNO: Absolutely, and they are the largest employer in Florida. There has been a sort of a symbiotic relationship between Florida and Disney that 
 
 goes back since they first opened their theme parks here. And really Florida's economy has grown with Disney. But Governor DeSantis has won a 
 
 lot of political capital with this fight is made him one of the most popular Republicans in the country.
 
And now we are starting to see potential rivals starting to criticize DeSantis over this as he grows in the Republican fields. We saw Chris 
 
 Christie just today said he doesn't think this sounds very conservative. Former Vice President Mike Pence has criticized this.
 
So all these Republicans who are a little gun shy to attack Trump are now pivoting to DeSantis. And they have found Disney to be a very fertile 
 
 ground to raise questions about his leadership going forward.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, this is a Trump campaign ad somewhere in that tweet, I think. Steve, great to have you with us, thank you so much. Steve Contorno 
 
 there in St. Petersburg, Florida! OK, after the break more on the crisis in Sudan, we'll get on the ground assessment from security firm, global 
 
 guardian. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". Returning to Sudan now and a smoking gun fire fill the air over the capital Khartoum. We're hearing that 
 
 Germany is preparing for a possible evacuation operation. A spokesman telling CNN Special Forces are on standby for emergency situations. Also 
 
 watching closely is the international security firm Global Guardian.
 
It provides -- emergency services to clients in Sudan's largest cities and tourist destinations. The company which has on the ground intelligence 
 
 provides personal security, emergency evacuations and medical aid. Global Guardian operates in over 140 nations including Ukraine and in Afghanistan. 
 
 And Dale Buckner is the CEO and joins us now.
 
Dale, great to have you with us! I remember our conversations with Ukraine and Afghanistan and how vital it was to have your eyes on the ground. 
 
 What's your assessment first and foremost of the security situation in Sudan today?
 
DALE BUCKNER, CEO, GLOBAL GUARDIAN: Well, Julia as you described, one, it's deteriorating, we're going towards day four. The airport is closed, 
 
 electricity in major cities is out, the water construction site where they purify water has been struck so clean water is now not available.
 
Hospitals are closing, medical support is evaporating. Ultimately, you have what you have in all these scenarios. You have the transportation grid is 
 
 now frozen. You have fighting on the streets and ultimately the civilians and all these cases are now stuck in between two warring factions.
 
CHATTERLEY: I was going to ask you about that. In particular, because we are talking about conflict between two well-armed military factions, but 
 
 getting information on who's doing what, who controls what, who's where, it's very difficult. Can you give us any sense of that at this stage, 
 
 particularly when we're talking about perhaps airports, disabled roadblocks, I'm assuming and road checks? What can you tell us and I 
 
 appreciate it's difficult to get clarity at this stage.
 
BUCKNER: Yes, even with the teams in the ground that are reporting what's happening to us every few hours to your point, the airports are closed, the 
 
 airspace is closed. There's no commercial, private charter air capability whatsoever. To your point both the SAF and the RSF have both stood up 
 
 checkpoints depending on what terrain they hold. Ultimately there will be a standstill if you will on the transportation grid.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
We're in going into day four, we do believe and this was just announced we might see the second of two attempts at a ceasefire. We're hoping that this 
 
 evening at 6 p.m. local, that we will see a ceasefire, there will be an opportunity to move civilians out in the city centers at scale.
 
Now, the first attempt at this failed, you saw this in Ukraine, you saw it and Kabul, Afghanistan, typically the first few attempts at this fail 
 
 because the people at the lowest level do not actually get that message.
 
And you can imagine that is the risk here is that as you have forces on both sides deployed across the country, that at the lowest level that 
 
 communicates is not get to them, and hence the fighting continues. So, there's real risk here, even with a formalized ceasefire with that window 
 
 of opportunity coming, that we could still see fighting.
 
CHATTERLEY: Do you know who is in control of at this, guys? Because to your point, if there is, and we pray that this ceasefire does hold, if you're 
 
 trying to extricate people is land the only option.
 
BUCKNER: So right now, we do believe land is the option, the only option. We have executed three successful evacuations to Egypt to the north, one 
 
 successful evacuation to Eritrea to the southeast. Ultimately, right now, the Sudanese army does have an air capability, if you will. They do have 
 
 aircraft up.
 
The RSF does not have a capability, although they have recently secured some military and air force assets. The question is can they fly them? Can 
 
 they maintain them, and that's still TBD. No one really knows if the RSF has that capability.
 
And as we look at it today, that truly the only option you have for freedom of movement is ground. But that is as you can imagine, there have been 
 
 bridges blown up, there are checkpoints on both sides, there are borders closing, this becomes very difficult.
 
We're now going into day four, the first 48 hours, much as just as I spoke to you, during the fall of Kabul and in the Ukraine, the first 48 hours is 
 
 your greatest opportunity for freedom maneuver. And then every day after that it gets tighter and tighter and tighter and more difficult.
 
CHATTERLEY: I mean, you mentioned the successful operations that you already carried out. And I'm assuming that was in the early hours of when 
 
 this conflict erupted. Are you in a situation now where you're preparing, waiting to remove further individuals? And who's there?
 
Who are the clients that we're talking about? Is it corporations, members of NGOs? It's sort of difficult to see who remains or who would want to 
 
 remain at this stage and who is still desperate to leave?
 
BUCKNER: Yes, so there are four categories of clients that Global Guardian is currently serving, oil and gas consulting, non-profits, and recently 
 
 we've been approached by multiple governments. In each case, if they're not Global Guardian clients, we kind of reserve all of our assets to that 
 
 client base, so that cohort first and foremost.
 
And then as we have capacity as much like when I talk to you about the Ukraine, we then open it up to other agencies, if you will. You can imagine 
 
 those discussions in the fourth 48 hours are, we need to move now, we need to move fast. This is the window opportunity. Now those things are more 
 
 difficult.
 
Again, as I've talked to you about other crises, I might not get be able to get to your people in the next three, four or five days or three weeks. It 
 
 doesn't mean we can't get to them. It's just all about the conditions on the ground. And where's the opportunity?
 
So, to your point, there are places outside of the major urban areas that we still can move. As you can imagine, where the fighting is that this is 
 
 now either closed up, and or we're waiting for an opportunity to see what changes over the next days, to weeks, to months.
 
CHATTERLEY: I mean -- the damage and sort of awful stories that we're hearing from doctors, and that's directly to -- into CNN that hospitals are 
 
 being targeted. Do you have any sort of evidence knowledge or Intel about that specifically, and what you're hearing?
 
BUCKNER: Yes, so our teams in the ground have validated that open-source intelligence that's being reported in the open-source news. Again, 
 
 airports, the water source hospitals, if you think about this, both the SAF and the RSF are fighting over this opportunity.
 
They're fighting over what is the infrastructure of the country, that if they "win" now they can control the population. So, when you think about it 
 
 that's why they're going after government buildings, that's why they're going after military bases, that's why they're targeting transportation 
 
 infrastructure.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
And that's ultimately why they're targeting food, water. And ultimately, even medical care is a target because it becomes a control lever for 
 
 whoever comes out on top of this conflict.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's appalling. Dale, I'm going to post this interview on social media later if people are there, and they actually get to see this. 
 
 What's your best advice to Sudanese citizens that may be close by or involved in this?
 
BUCKNER: No question whether you're a citizen or you're tied to a firm, that number one, you have to be paying attention if you have connectivity 
 
 to a radio, to the internet to a phone, if that's still working, wherever that is that you can get information. As I stated, we're targeting 6 p.m. 
 
 local this evening.
 
We are very hopeful that in the city centers where there is conflict, there will be a ceasefire, this will be the first of hopefully several successful 
 
 ceasefires that allow the civilian population to be very direct to get out of the way. Those windows of opportunity are very important; they have been 
 
 successful in other conflict regions.
 
And then if you're outside of those centers, where there's not a lot of fighting, you either can have the, if you have the mobility, if you will, 
 
 you have to make that move early in this conflict, move to another area that's out of the fighting zone, go to family members and or coordinate 
 
 with your employer to see what they're recommending, and to see if they can bring firms in like Global Guardian, or they're coordinating with 
 
 government forces, as you described, German forces might be on call.
 
I would tell you that bringing in a foreign military at this point will be a very difficult call for the Germans. And even if they do deploy, they're 
 
 going to face the exact same infrastructure challenges and roadblocks that we have today. And frankly, this timing of this will be really, really 
 
 important.
 
CHATTERLEY: Dale tied to this and we're just getting news into CNN the armed personnel, we don't know who, what side has stormed the homes of NGO 
 
 workers, we believe U.N. workers involved in particular, would you expect this kind of thing. And again, it goes back to the conversation that we 
 
 were saying about who specifically is being targeted, and how they best protect themselves?
 
BUCKNER: Yes, I think when you look at the two forces, the Sudanese army, the SAF, as it's called, they do have logistical capability, and they can 
 
 resupply themselves at some level, at least today. When you look at the RSF, they're "better trained", but they don't have a logistical train or 
 
 support.
 
So, we've already seen at scale, the RSF, primarily, they had been going after institutions and hubs, whether its food, water, money, weapons 
 
 assets, because they just don't have the logistical train behind them, if you will. So, when you look at the open-source reporting, we've already 
 
 seen a Gibson advisors taken, we've seen an assault of a Japanese diplomat, the Kuwaiti Embassy has been approached.
 
Diplomats from the U.S. the European Union and the Japanese have all been either assaulted or approached. And then of course, when you look at the 
 
 forces on the ground from the U.N., typically these compounds the U.N. have set up are well funded, they have a lot of resources.
 
And that's why the U.N. is going to be targeted primarily by the SAF, the RSF. But the Sudanese army at some point, if they become desperate, that 
 
 also could be a target for them. So, this just we would expect more of this, especially the longer it goes. If this goes for months to years, then 
 
 all of those assets are going to be targeted by both sides throughout the conflict.
 
CHATTERLEY: Dale, I have about 30 seconds. Very quickly if, again, individuals that work for these international organizations are watching, 
 
 what's the advice do you hand over those assets, the wealth and money, whatever it is that they're looking for?
 
BUCKNER: 100 percent. Look, food, grain, radios, homes, infrastructure, much like a natural --, it can all be replaced, lives cannot be replaced. 
 
 When you're approached, if it is overwhelming force, there really is not an option here. I would not advise those personnel or those organizations to 
 
 fight. If there is a way to peacefully transition those assets and to peacefully get out of the way which in many cases that will occur.
 
Those are the discussions you want to have as a leader. And again, I'll reiterate watching for those ceasefire opportunities are your best 
 
 opportunities to safely exit, if you don't have either a military or an organization like a Global Guardian that's going to come in and be able to 
 
 have the opportunity to move those people to a safe zone.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Dale, great to have you on, as always great advice. And thank you for your insight.
 
BUCKNER: Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Dale Buckner there, the CEO of Global Guardian. Thank you. We're back after this, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Hey Siri, say hello to India. Apple CEO Tim Cook was on hand in Mumbai to celebrate the opening of its first physical store in the nation. 
 
 It's a major milestone for Apple in the world's second largest smartphone market. Vedika Sud has more on the importance of the tech giant's 
 
 expansion.
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: Amateur and Chancellor Apple CEO Tim Cook opened the doors of the company's first physical store in India, in Mumbai 
 
 Tuesday. The tech giant which is the world's second biggest smartphone maker currently holds just 6 percent market share in India. Until now, it 
 
 had been selling its products through third party sellers and through its online retail stores.
 
Apple which is the world's most valuable company is looking to expand its operations and increase its retail share in India which is seen as an 
 
 emerging market with huge potential. After recent supply chain snags in mainland China, which accounts for a bulk of iPhone manufacturing, Apple 
 
 has been looking to expand its phone production operations here in India.
 
The company has significantly increased its Indian exports; iPhone shipments grew 65 percent over the previous year. Apple store presence in 
 
 India is a part of a larger trend that we are now seeing of companies diversifying their manufacturing away from China.
 
According to Apple, the company's mobile apps, businesses supporting more than 1 million developer jobs in India. Apple will be opening its second 
 
 retail store in the capital of New Delhi on Thursday. Vedika Sud, CNN, New Delhi.
 
CHATTERLEY: And let's talk more about this. Dan Ives is Managing Director and Senior Equity Analyst at Wedbush Securities. And he joins us now. Dan, 
 
 you know what's remarkable to me, and I know this story is huge is that they already have what a $6 billion business in India without having any 
 
 retail presence at all, how quickly do you think these scales?
 
DAN IVES, MANAGING DIRECTOR &amp; SENIOR EQUITY ANALYST, WEDBUSH SECURITIES: I think it's going to scale quickly. I mean, we think this could be up to 20 
 
 billion by 2025. And this is really Apple; it's a strategic poker move. And they're doubling down on the Indian market.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
And this is something where I think it's the smart move at the right time, especially where they are not just from the demand perspective, but 
 
 production is more moves to India.
 
CHATTERLEY: I mean they've got what, in terms of competition, Samsung, Vivo, Huawei, where do they fit in terms of segment price point, because 
 
 it's an expensive device.
 
IVES: Yes, and I think that's been the historical issue in India. But I think more and more, there's a groundswell that we're seeing around Apple's 
 
 products. And I think going into the iPhone 15, we could see significant share from Samsung, and some of the lower cost Chinese competitors. That's 
 
 what Apple's going after.
 
And for Cook, being there, I think more and more trying to -- you know, in terms of government officials and others, they're taking a page at the 
 
 China playbook in terms of laying the groundwork. I think India could be a massive market for Apple going forward.
 
CHATTERLEY: And it's super digital. I was just on a panel at the IMF talking about the sort of India stack, which are layers of digitization 
 
 across the sphere. So, it's quite fascinating to see this come at the same time. But it's also an opportunity on production to your point about the 
 
 similar path that we saw them taking China.
 
IVES: Its skin in the game and I think ultimately, if you look what happened with that got punched in December holiday season, the zero COVID 
 
 shutdown in China. That was the straw that broke the camel's back, more and more Apple looking at India looking to Vietnam to diversify. And right now, 
 
 on both sides demand and supply, looking Indian. And I think this is going to be a key piece of that Apple puzzle going forward.
 
CHATTERLEY: Price target on Apple at this moment, Dan?
 
IVES: 205 and -- in my opinion, this will yet again be a $3 trillion market cap this year, spy many yelling fire in a crowded theater. It's a rock, 
 
 Gibraltar tech stock.
 
CHATTERLEY: A Rock of Gibraltar great to have you on!
 
IVES: Thanks for having me.
 
CHATTERLEY: Dan, you'll be back later on this week because we're going to talk Netflix and Twitter too, fun and games as always.
 
IVES: Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Thank you, Dan. For now, we're back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". U.S. stocks are up and running this Tuesday. Let's take a look. The major averages are mostly higher; 
 
 let's call it that in early Trade Tech, of course in a dominant position up six tenths of 1 percent. A positive investor reaction perhaps to China's 
 
 stronger than expected GDP number showing consumers they're back in action well and truly at post lock downs.
 
The S&amp;P 500 is up more than 1 percent over the past month despite an array of economic uncertainties. Investors almost fully pricing into another Fed 
 
 rate hike next month even as economists worry about an upcoming recession and a pullback in bank lending. And bank earnings certainly front and 
 
 center today, disappointment for Goldman Sachs investors, it shares down some 2.7 percent of that revenue miss.
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
In the meantime, Bank of America topping estimates on both the top and bottom lines relatively unchanged in early trade. And finally, they say a 
 
 picture tells thousand words. But this one tells a story of just two letters, A and I. You're looking at an image that won the Sony world 
 
 photography awards.
 
The only problem is it was made using artificial intelligence. The artists behind it say, -- won't accept the prize money and entered the photo as an 
 
 experiment to spark debate. Ouch. I can't wait till an AI version of me replaces me and I just watched from the beach. That's it for the show. I'm 
 
 kidding.
 
If you've missed any of our interviews today, they will be on my Twitter and Instagram pages, search for @jchatterleycnn. "Connect the World" is up 
 
 next and the real me, we'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END