Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Police Release Video of Shocking Attack on Florida Deputies; IRS Announced New Income Tax Brackets for 2024; Vaccine Exemptions for U.S. Kindergartners at Record High; "Antisemitism in America" Airs Sunday at 9 p.m. ET/PT. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired November 10, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Finally, I'll point out that looking at this, it does not appear to be a particularly sophisticated operation here. I mean, all of these letters being received around the same time seems to indicate they were likely sent around the same time. So I think it's only a matter of time before this person is in custody. But certainly a very serious situation when you're talking about threats against election workers -- Boris. 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Josh Campbell, thank you so much -- Brianna. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: A terrifying attack on 2 Florida deputies, the Hillsborough County Sheriff says a man deliberately ambushed the deputies with his car and was determined to kill them. And it was all caught on video that is now being released. CNN's Isabel Rosales is joining us on this. Isabel walk us through what happened here and how these deputies are doing. 
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Brianna, we've got a positive update from the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office saying that both of these deputies are out of surgery with serious leg injuries and are now recovering at Tampa General Hospital. 
 
In fact, HSO gave us a picture of the sheriff. He snapped a shot inside of the hospital with one of these injured deputies, Deputy Manuel Santos right there. That's his wife on the right. Now, before we heard that his other deputy, Corporal Carlos Brito, he was the one that was worse hurt from this incident. And the Sheriff, Chad Chronister, had said that it was possible that he might lose his leg. HSO was not able to give me a condition as to how that deputy is doing and the condition of his life. 
 
So let me walk you back to yesterday morning. What happened here? This all started with a 911 call. A mother saying that she was in fear for her life. Her son was behaving erratically and violently. So deputies arrived to the Brandon home and tried speaking with Ralph Bouzy, who was in his car. But he refused to speak to the deputies. Backed off out of the driveway and left. But then he came back. 
 
I want to show you now the surveillance footage. It is very graphic. You can see a deputy right there jumping out of the way. Then he speeds up right into those two deputies. Horrible situation. Horrible to look at right there. Just a violent collision. Here's what the deputy. Excuse me, the sheriff, Chad Chronister, had to say about the situation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHERIFF CHAD CHRONISTER, HILLSBORO COUNTY, FLORIDA: These deputies never had a chance. They didn't have a chance to get out of the way. Our agency has been rocked today. Fortunately, we won't be planning a funeral regardless of how intended and determined this suspect was to take a deputy's life. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: And we also have the footage of what happens after that collision. We can see Bouzy getting out of the car and then walking toward two other deputies. You can see them, and we could hear it in the video giving him commands. And he refused to comply with them. Right here, they choose to tase him. And then shortly after that, they arrested him. Bouzy is now facing three counts of attempted murder on a law enforcement officer. 
 
We did also hear from Governor Ron DeSantis, who put out this post on X saying, quote: We don't tolerate attacks on our law enforcement officers in Florida. The coward who brutally attacked these deputies will be punished -- Brianna. 
 
KEILAR: All right, Isabel, thank you. That is horrible. We appreciate the report. 
 
Up next, vaccine exemptions for children reached the highest level ever reported in the U.S. So why aren't some parents vaccinating their kids? We'll have that ahead. 
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: So here's something you can thank inflation for. The IRS just announced a new income tax bracket for 2024. And that means that your income will likely be taxed at lower rates next year. CNN's Matt Egan is here to take us through all of this. All right, Matt, how do these new tax brackets work? 
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Well, Brianna, this is some good news from an unlikely place, of course, the IRS. Put it simply, it just means that they're going to have more money staying in your pocket, less money going to the IRS. 
 
Now, normally, this is pretty boring these changes. The adjustments are usually pretty small, but because inflation is so high right now, the IRS has been forced to make bigger changes. 
 
So let me just give you one example. In 2023, income above $95,000 was taxed at 24 percent in 2024, it would have to be above $100,500 before you get to that 24 percent limit. So that is a significant change here. The IRS is not trying to lower anyone's tax burden per say, but they are trying to adjust for inflation. And we're also seeing some changes to its deductions. 
 
So let's look at the standard deduction. That's the most common one that people take. That's going up by 5 percent. So if you are a single taxpayer that is going up by $750 for 2024. For married couples it's also going higher -- the standard deduction is going up by $1,500. So these are changes, again, that the IRS is making for tax year 2224. 
 
KEILAR: All right, I think people will be looking forward to that. All right, Matt Egan. Thank you so much -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: Now to some of the other headlines we're watching this hour. Three former men's basketball players at New Mexico State University who were accused of hazing have been indicted. 
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
The state's attorney general says the charges stemmed from incidents last year with the young men allegedly held younger players and student staff against their will while they sexually violated them. They face multiple counts of sexual misconduct and false imprisonment. 
 
Also, the hunt for a New Jersey man wanted in the January 6th Capital Riot is over. Suspect Gregory Yetman surrendered to authorities without incident early this morning. Multiple law enforcement agencies began searching for him yesterday -- or rather on Wednesday, after they say he fled into the woods near his home when police tried to arrest him. He now faces multiple charges connected to the Capitol insurrection. He's set to appear in federal court on Monday. 
 
And its home sweet homes for three giant pandas who left the United States and returned to China. The animals landed there early this morning, local time. They were originally scheduled to return in 2020, but their stay was extended because of a three-year agreement between the National Zoo here in DC and the China Wildlife and Conservation Association -- Brianna. 
 
KEILAR: It is an alarming report from the CDC stating vaccination rates for diseases like measles and chicken pox among kindergarteners are below pre-pandemic levels. And the rate of children with exemptions for state mandated vaccines is at an all-time high. CNN medical correspondent Meg Tirrell is here with more for us. Meg, what do these numbers mean when it comes to a risk of an outbreak and the health of kids? 
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Brianna, it raises the risk that we could see outbreaks of these infections that we really hoped we've been putting behind us. You know, before the pandemic, the national vaccination rates for a lot of these vaccines was 95 percent. And that's the goal, really, to reach sort of herd immunity where you can protect the folks who aren't vaccinated or don't get enough benefit, by having everybody else be protected. So during the pandemic we saw that slowly inched down to 94 percent and then over the past two years it's held at 93 percent. What we have also seen now in this new CDC data is that exemptions to
 
 getting these vaccines has risen to the highest level ever recorded three percent. That's up from 2.6 percent in the prior year. And so that's folks who are not intending to catch up. And so that is really alarming to public health officials and people who work in this space. 
 
They say that specifically for measles, for example, where the national vaccination rate is about 93 percent that puts about 250,000 kindergarteners at risk of a measles infection. And so they're really encouraging schools and providers to try to focus on getting kids caught up here. 
 
KEILAR: Do we know exactly how much of this is due to increasing vaccine hesitancy? 
 
TIRRELL: You know that was something that the researchers in the CDC report talked about, and they said it wasn't clear exactly how much of it was that and how much of it was just barriers to getting vaccinated leftover from COVID or convenience factors. And so, what they're really encouraging with this report is to not let folks slip into getting exemptions because it's just easier to say, hey, we're not going to finish the vaccine schedule. But really to try to work with folks where if they're in a lag trying to get them caught up, provide school-based clinics and really do everything to make sure kids aren't falling through the cracks to try to get those levels back up to 95 percent or higher. 
 
KEILAR: All right, Meg Tirrell, thank you so much for that. 
 
And still to come, anti-Semitism on the rise across the U.S. and around the world, we're going to take a look at how Jewish communities are facing the new threats. 
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: As the Israel Hamas war rages on, anti-Semitism is rising sharply in the United States and around the world. This Sunday, on CNN's "THE WHOLE STORY" with Anderson Cooper, our Dana Bash takes an in-depth look at this disturbing trend. Here's part of her report where she spoke with the special envoy to monitor and combat anti- Semitism. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
AMB. DEBORAH LIPSTADT, U.S. SPECIAL ENVOY TO MONITOR AND COMBAT ANTISEMITISM: Jew hatred, anti-Semitism is deeply baked into not just Western society, but much of the world. It's very hard to eradicate. The anti-Semitism has been called the longest or the oldest hatred, with good reason. So this sort of let the lid off for many antisemites for quite a few decades. It hasn't been taken seriously. 
 
People have said, well, it's not as serious as racism. It's not as serious as homophobia. It's not as serious as misogyny, et cetera. Or what you'll often find is amongst the university administrators, oh, these Jewish kids, they come from well healed families. It's almost falling into the anti-Semitic trope. Jews are powerful, so why are they complaining? Jews are successful, so why are they complaining? So it's using the anti-Semitism against them. 
 
When you encounter an act of prejudice, call it out for what it is. When George Floyd was murdered, it would have been so inappropriate to say we condemn the racism that was behind this and the homophobia and the anti-Semitism. But somehow when it comes to anti-Semitism, it couldn't be called out on its own. It couldn't stand on its own.
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR: What is the whataboutism do? 
 
LIPSTADT: It dilutes it and it's so to a certain degree rationalizes and or justifies. I want to also be exactly clear. Criticism of Israeli policy is not anti-Semitism. But when you question the right of a Jews to a national identity, when you question the existence of a Jewish state, you've moved beyond the political. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANCHEZ: CNN's Dana Bash joins us now. 
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
And Dana, it strikes me that you have covered this topic now for four years and you've done this story, but this is a different climate. The anti-Semitism, not just in this country, but as we said around the world and it, is much more federal. It's much more angry and dangerous than it's been in a long time. 
 
BASH (on camera): Since -- well, before October 7th, the number or the percentage of hate crimes against Jews 60 percent when it comes to religious groups in America, even though Jews make up a little more than 2 percent of the population that was before October 7th. Since then it has exploded. It's almost hard for people who track these things to get a handle of what it is. I mean hundreds of percentages up just in the past month. And there are lots of reasons for this. One of them is that the hate crimes that we saw in the past -- I don't know, 10 years -- largely came from events that started in the hard right, white supremacists. That was for Jews, for Blacks and beyond. 
 
But what has been going on beneath the surface, Boris, particularly at college campuses, is a latent anti-Semitism. And a lot of universities didn't want to talk about it because they say no, no, it's not anti- Semitism, it's political speech when you speak out against Israel. Which is you heard for the ambassador, that's fine. I mean, if you talk a lot of Jews, they will probably be the most critical of whatever given government is in Israel. But this is different because it's about an existential right to exist. Not just in Israel, but it is being fomented in a very aggressive and violent way here in the U.S. and a lot of it is because it hasn't been addressed properly. It's been swept under the rug at college campuses in particular. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, I mean there are disagreements about policy, but you can't really disagree with someone's human right to just be. Some of the language that's used around these issues often gets very coded, and we've seen that play out specifically this week on Capitol Hill. 
 
BASH: We did, and you're talking about Rashida Tlaib and she was censured. 22 of her fellow Democrats voted to censure her, and it was not because of her political speech. Obviously, she is a politician. She has a right to do that. And she is very passionate about the Palestinian issue in particular. She is the first Palestinian woman to be elected to Congress. Her grandmother lives in Gaza. But it's because she used the term in a video, "From the River to the Sea." But she claims it's about hope for peace. That's not what it is from the perspective of almost all Jews who understand from "The River to the Sea" is the Jordan River to the Mediterranean. 
 
SANCHEZ: Not just Jews, but Hamas --
 
BASH: But Hamas, thank you. 
 
SANCHEZ: -- and their doctrine. They describe it as their cause. 
 
BASH: Thank you for adding that. That's such an important point. It isn't. It's the Jews -- I mean, excuse me -- Hamas uses that phrase as a way to say we want to annihilate the Jewish state and the Jewish people, that is at its core -- Jew hate. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, it is -- it's really fascinating, especially the point about college campuses. You spoke with Ambassador Deborah Lipstadt. What did she share with you? Anything about the way that universities are handling this? 
 
BASH: Yes, she did. It's -- she and others say -- well, first of all, it's interesting cause Lipstadt is now the ambassador. She's a tenured professor at Emory University, and she is maybe the one of the world's most foremost experts on Holocaust and anti-Semitism studies. 
 
And what she said is that corporations, universities, as society, we have been much better about DEI, you know, about dealing with making groups that feel other heard. And when it comes to prejudice against Jews, that has not been included at all. And it is because it falls into the same tropes. Jews are white. Jews are privileged Jews are, you know, run the world. The conspiracies that have been around, Boris --
 
SANCHEZ: Thousands of years. 
 
BASH: -- for literally thousands of years, and so the hope is that this opens the door to just if not DEI, but just acknowledging that prejudice against Jews is still prejudice and needs to be addressed by people in leadership, whether it's at the university level or the corporate level or in government. 
 
SANCHEZ: And addressing, as you noted before, the distinction between a conversation about policy, about diplomacy, and about just a human right to exist. Dana Bash. I'll look forward to this. Thanks for joining us.
 
BASH: Thanks for having me on. Good to see you, Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: Of course, of course. 
 
Don't forget the all-new episode of "THE WHOLE STORY" with Anderson Cooper, a whole hour, one whole story airs Sunday at 9:00 p.m. Eastern and Pacific only on CNN. We'll be right back.
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
KEILAR: All right, meet CNN hero Dr. Kwane Stewart, who is helping pets of those who are homeless. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DR. KWANE STEWART, PROJECT STREET VET: I can treat about 80 percent of the cases I see out of a really small bag. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Will you do vaccines too? Oh, that's really cool. 
 
It's antibiotics, it's anti-inflammatories, flea and tick, heartworm prevention. It's all there. It's at no cost them it's free. 
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
STEWART (voice-over): I'm building a network of trusted volunteers, technicians, but hospitals and clinics, we can go to, we can call on. 
 
STEWART: Let me take a listen here. 
 
STEWART (voice-over): it doesn't matter what your situation is or what your background or past is. I see a pet in need and I see a person who cares for them dearly who just needs some help. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KEILAR: That is so wonderful. You can vote for your CNN hero, of course, on cnnheroes.com. And "THE LEAD" starts right now.