Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Former U.S. Marine Killed In Ukraine; Hollywood Writers' Strike Begins; 250+ Officers Searching For Suspect, $80K Reward Offered. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired May 02, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:30]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. Hollywood writers are headed to the picket line. Thousands set to go on strike. A move that will bring productions to a grinding halt and send shockwaves through the industry. 
 
A dire warning from America's Treasury Secretary saying the country only has about a month to pay its bills or risk and economic catastrophe.
 
Plus, a former U.S. Marine killed on the frontlines of the war in Ukraine. Fighting in one of the war's bloodiest battles. We will hear from his mother about what compelled him to join the fight.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: And we begin with the breaking news from Hollywood where television and film writers are now on strike. A move that will very likely shut down most T.V. and film productions in the U.S. for the foreseeable future. The strike was announced hours ago after the Writers Guild and studios failed to reach an agreement hours before a midnight deadline. About 11,000 writers are affected.
 
They say their contracts need to be reworked in the era of streaming to make up for a loss of income due to a dramatic decrease in residuals from reruns. They also want limits on the use of artificial intelligence in the industry.
 
At the Met Gala in New York tonight, show host Jimmy Fallon said he stands with his writers.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMMY FALLON, HOST. THE TONIGHT SHOW STATTING JIMMY FALLON: There's a strike. Yes. I think we will. Yes. I think we'll get -- we'll go do whatever I can do to support the guild. I am actually in the Writers Guild as well. So yes, I couldn't do the show without them. And I support my whole staff.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: The studio's say they're hurting too. And then falling stock prices are forcing deep cost cutting and layoffs. The last Writers strike in 2007 lasted 100 days, causing an estimated $2 billion in economic damage.
 
And CNN Media Critic Brian Lowry joins me now from Los Angeles. Brian, good to see you. So, leaders of the Writers Guild of America have now called for this strike. Hollywood's first in 15 years. They were unable to reach an agreement with T.V. and film production companies over compensation in this streaming era. So, what happens now? And what will this strike mean for viewers?
 
BRIAN LOWRY, SENIOR WRITER, CNN MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT: Well, viewers won't see a lot that changes in the immediate -- in this immediate span. You will see the late night shows go dark. Saturday Night Live will also probably go dark. But there is an enormous amount of content and most content has a long lead time to it. But if the strike drags on for any length of time, then you start to get into a situation where it will start to slow that pipeline of shows.
 
The difference now, of course, from 15 years ago, being that there is such an abundance of choices and streaming services, and available content that viewers may not feel that pinch quite as much as they did that.
 
CHURCH: And these studios say they're hurting but they do make hundreds of millions of dollars from the content that these writers provide. So, why are they not willing to ensure that these same writers get a livable wage, protected jobs and residuals for the content that they create? And what is the main stumbling block in finding common ground here?
 
LOWRY: Well, a lot has happened. I mean, for starters, we had the pandemic which had a dramatic impact on the industry, which was already undergoing fairly wrenching changes, but it really depressed the theatrical box office which hurt these companies bottom line. We've seen that start to come back, but it's come back slowly. And in the meantime, the studios have migrated much of their content to streaming services, which for a while, were great growth engines for these companies.
 
But they're not particularly profitable because they're spending so much to try to buy those subscribers. Plus, you've got the added competition of Amazon, Apple, Netflix. 
 
[02:05;02]
 
These very deep pocketed tech companies that have squeezed into the business who of course for them the entertainment industry is -- and the -- and the television content that they produce is just such a small part of their business. But they still want that to be profitable like any other division of their company. CHURCH: And as we mentioned, the Writers' strike in 2007 and 2008 lasted about 100 days, and cost billions of dollars, while also of course, preventing fans from seeing some of their favorite shows. What will be the likely impact of this Writers' strike given there's now so much streaming content out there that's already available. I mean, except for those late night shows. You mentioned our viewers going to feel this anytime soon. So, could this be more than 100 days this strike perhaps?
 
LOWRY: Well, I don't think anybody involved is hoping that's the case. But they are pretty dug in. And to answer your earlier question, Writers are really going to need to see, I think, some band on some of these issues related to residuals and transparency. You know, one of the things in the streaming age is these companies. Unlike the network's -- the major television networks, they don't provide regular viewership data.
 
And it's been a nettlesome issue for the Writers as well as frankly, for the media that covers these companies, that we don't really know exactly how many people are watching these shows. And for the Writers who are accustomed sharing in the success of their shows, basically being told, here's a flat residual, you're doing fine, trust us is not what they want to hear. So, that's a real sticking point on this.
 
And I think they're going to push very, very hard that if they give a successful show or involved with a successful show for one of these companies that they share in that success.
 
CHURCH: Yes, indeed. And of course, you know, as we were discussing the studio say they're hurting. Clearly the Writers are or they wouldn't take this sort of action. And I would suspect the Writers are hurting a lot more than the studios are. So, what is the solution here or what are the solutions perhaps?
 
LOWRY: Well, invariably, you find some common ground and some compromise. The issue is going to be who is going to start hurting first. The Writers have been preparing this -- for this for a long time and in fact, you know, their last negotiation was in 2020. It was -- it happened during the early onset of the pandemic. So, in a way, some of these issues have been festering even longer than since the last contract was negotiated.
 
And I think they've been -- they've been gearing up realizing that at some point, they have to take a stand. On the flip side, these are enormous companies with tremendous amounts of resources and revenue. But they are seeing their business change in dramatic ways, and they can't tell what's around the corner. So, I don't think that it behooves anyone to be in this for the long haul because anything you lose during the strike, you're never certain you're going to get it back -- all of it back when the strike is over.
 
CHURCH: All right. So, we'll see how long this strike lasts. Brian Lowry, thank you so much for joining us. Appreciate it.
 
LOWRY: Thank you. CHURCH: Harsh on yielding rhetoric and a disturbing new prediction. That is the atmosphere in Washington at this hour amid the partisan standoff over raising the nation's borrowing limit. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned Monday that if Congress does not make a deal, the U.S. could default on its debt as soon as June 1st. That's a full month earlier than previously estimated. And it could set off economic calamity worldwide.
 
But the two sides are not budging, Republicans are insisting President Biden negotiate spending cuts along with the debt limit. While Democrats say GOP leaders are trying to hold the economy hostage. President Biden has just invited Congress's top four officials to discuss the standoff on May 9th but the White House says it's not budging on demanding a clean debt ceiling raised without conditions.
 
All of this has one top Senate Republican warning times are wasted. And CNN's Manu Raju has been up on Capitol Hill talking to lawmakers and as more details on what's holding up a deal and what's at stake.
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: In a stark warning to Capitol Hill, the Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen sending a letter saying that the debt ceiling must be raised immediately. Warning that up tend to default, the first ever default in U.S. history could occur as early as June 1st if the debt ceiling is not raised.
 
This, of course, has been an issue that the two sides have been squabbling about for the better part of this year. The House Republicans insists that there must be some spending cuts attached to it given that the debt is north of $31 trillion. And they've already passed a bill. They did last week along straight party lines to include a slew of spending cuts and tied to raising the debt ceiling up through next March.
 
But the Senate Democrats in the White House say that is an absolute nonstarter. They say that there should be no negotiation of raising the debt ceiling, given the potential calamitous impact of not raising the debt ceiling. Saying that it must be raised. No, no conditions whatsoever, but as a position rejected by House Republicans and it's a sign of how far apart the two sides are, two senators today indicated what -- how they believe that should be resolved.
 
One Democrat up for reelection, saying that there should not be spending cuts attached.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What they're saying is they're going to default on the debt.
 
RAJU: So, should you guys just find a middle ground between the two?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What is the middle ground?
 
RAJU: A deal with some spending cause tied to a debt ceiling increase.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think that's -- I think it's a big mistake. I think it's a big mistake.
 
SEN. JOHN THUNE (R-SD): These deals got to be between Biden and McCarthy or their respective teams because it's just -- there's no other way that something gets 60 votes in the Senate. The pressure is mounting and intensifying and it should.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: And that second senator, Senator John Thune, he's the number two Republican saying that the Senate GOP is simply not going to swoop in at the last moment here and try to cut a deal with Democrats saying that simply will not work. Saying there must be explicit blessing from Kevin McCarthy in order to move ahead here. Saying that without that, that it just would not be 60 votes, which is what is would be needed in the U.S. Senate.
 
Meaning 51 Democrats, at least nine Republicans. He said there is no formula in which that would happen without McCarthy's blessing, which is why it is such a grim picture, perhaps the worst scenario of a potential default since 2011. At that point, the U.S. credit rating was downgraded as the -- Washington move closer and closer to that deadline. Ultimately, a deal was reached raise the debt ceiling. Will that happen here? That is anyone's guess.
 
Manu Raju, CNN, Capitol Hill.
 
CHURCH: Four days after a shooting in Cleveland, Texas left five people did. The shooting suspects still remains at large. A source in U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement tells CNN the suspect Francisco Oropeza had entered the U.S. illegally and been deported by immigration officials at least four times in the past. His current immigration status is unclear. More than 250 law enforcement officers are involved in the manhunt.
 
And an $80,000 reward has been offered for any information. For more on this story, here's Josh Campbell.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JAMES SMITH, FBI SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: He is a threat to the community. And we need the community's help.
 
JOSH CAMPELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A massive man hunt in Southeast Texas for a man law enforcement says gunned down five of his neighbors including a nine-year-old boy. Now more than two days since the slayings authorities acknowledged they have zero leads.
 
SMITH: We do not know where he is. We don't have any tips right now to where he may be. CAMPBELL: According to the San Jacinto County Sheriff, the suspect
 
 identified his 38-year-old Francisco Oropeza order paisa was shooting a rifle in his yard Friday when neighbors asked him to stop because a baby was trying to sleep.
 
Video later captured Oropeza approaching the neighbor's house with the sheriff says he opened fire with 15 people inside. Killing the victims "almost execution style."
 
One of the survivors Wilson Garcia lost his wife and son in the horrific shooting. He says he miraculously escaped after a woman in the house helped them jump from a window.
 
WILSON GARCIA, WIFE AND SON KILLED IN SHOOTING (through translator): We lost my nine-year-old son and my wife as well. And two people who died were protecting my two-and-a-half-year-old daughter and my one- month-old son. They protected him with a bunch of clothing. So, the murderer wouldn't kill him too. So just imagine what we're feeling now. It was horrible.
 
CAMPBELL: Authorities tract Oropeza's cell phone but found it abandoned along with articles of clothing. Despite his unknown whereabouts, we are learning more about his background. A neighbor tells CNN, Oropeza had a history of erratic behavior with firearms and like the show them off. A Mexican national, he was also deported four times between 2009 and 2016 and serve jail time in 2012 for a DUI conviction, a law enforcement source tells CNN.
 
An $80,000 reward is now being offered for any information leading to Oropeza's capture.
 
SHERIFF GREG CAPERS, SAN JACINTO COUNTY, TEXAS: Five people died in my county and that is where my heart is in my county. Protecting my people to the best of our ability.
 
CAMPBELL: Garcia says he's staying strong for his two surviving children as his family endures unspeakable tragedy.
 <br>[02:15:03]
 
GARCIA: My daughter who more or less understands it's really difficult when she comes and starts asking for her mama and then for her brother.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CAMPBELL: And as hundreds of law enforcement officers continue their search for this suspect northeast of Houston. I'm also told from sources that the U.S.-Mexico border has also become a key focal point. The concern is that this suspect, a Mexican national may try to flee back into Mexico. Border patrol officers on both sides of the border had been briefed on the suspect. They have his photo. They are certainly on the lookout tonight.
 
I'm also told that the U.S. government is actively messaging to media outlets in Mexico about this $80,000 reward. Hoping that if someone knows the whereabouts of the suspect, they'll pick up the phone and help bring them to justice.
 
Josh Campbell, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
CHURCH: In Sudan, another ceasefire is in tatters as the fighting forces tens of thousands of people to flee. We'll have the latest on evacuation efforts.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: We are getting new reports of explosions around the Sudanese presidential palace in the capital as rival military factions once again violate the sixth attempt at a ceasefire. Heavy smoke rose north of Khartoum on Monday. The head of the rapid support forces told a Saudi news outlet that he sees no reason to negotiate with army leaders.
 <br>[02:20:03]
 
Meanwhile, Sudan's health ministry says more than 500 people have been killed since the fighting began more than two weeks ago. And the Sudanese Doctors Union says 94 people were killed in a city in West Darfur. They say health facilities and displaced persons camps were attacked and looted, forcing humanitarian organizations to evacuate. So far, some 73,000 people have left Sudan for neighboring countries according to the U.N. Refugee Agency which warns that figure could ballooned to more than 800,000.
 
The U.S. Secretary of State says the U.S. will keep organizing convoys to get Americans out of Sudan for as long as that assistance is needed. The State Department says the U.S. has helped more than 1000 American citizens leave Sudan since the start of the violence. A third overland convoy delivered Americans to Port Sudan on Monday, and a navy vessel has been bringing those evacuees across the Red Sea to Jeddah in Saudi Arabia.
 
And CNN's Senior Africa editor Stephanie Busari is tracking all of this live from Lagos. She joins us now. Good to see you, Stephanie. So, what more are you learning about these evacuations? And, of course, the ongoing fighting across the country?
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR AFRICA EDITOR: Yes, good morning, Rosemary. And so that the evacuations continued. The U.K. got some 2000 citizens out with the Royal Air Force, just overnight, and -- but the U.N. focus is really turning on to the humanitarian efforts, which are desperately needed. And the U.N. is warning of a catastrophe if these fighting does not stop to allow aid to get in.
 
And that's what the focus is really on. The U.N. Relief chief set to visit Sudan today to try to get these urgent talks going and to get humanitarian aid in. And they're saying that the aid that is currently in the country has also been massively looted. So, putting even more pressure on the very little aid that is available for assistance to the Sudanese people and we've heard reports of fighting -- heavy fighting around the presidential palace in Khartoum.
 
The capital leaving little hope that this another ceasefire will happen to allow this urgent assistance to go in. And the fighting is now in its third week and doesn't really look like it's going to abate anytime soon, but it's the Sudanese people that are being left to bear the brunt of this in West Darfur in El Geneina, health system has totally collapsed. Eyewitnesses are telling CNN. So, it's just really a very desperate situation all around, Rosemary. CHURCH: It definitely is. Stephanie Busari joining us live from Lagos. Many thanks. A Palestinian man with the military group Islamic Jihad has died in an Israeli prison after an 87-day hunger strike. Israel says Khader Adnan refused medical treatment and was found dead in his cell just a few hours ago. In response, a general strike has been announced in the West Bank Tuesday to mourn his death.
 
Israel says several rockets have also been fired from Gaza landing in open areas with no casualties. Adnan was accused of supporting terror, and had been detained nearly a dozen times by Israel, staging five hunger strikes over the years. The Palestinian Prisoners Society says Adnan was assassinated.
 
And still to come. A sobering assessment of Russian casualties in Ukraine.
 
Plus, a look at what life is like fighting a war in the trenches near the frontlines in Bakhmut. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:28:09]
 
CHURCH: The urgency couldn't be clearer and the politics more intense. Democrats and Republicans are in a standoff on raising the nation's borrowing limit. The Republican-controlled House has passed a debt ceiling increase, but with budget cuts and other conditions that Democrats say are "dead on arrival." President Biden has called a White House meeting with top congressional leaders on May 9th. 
 
The Treasury Secretary now says the government may default on its debt as soon as June 1st if the impasse is not resolved.
 
U.S. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy is pushing back on criticism from the Department of Veterans Affairs that the debt ceiling bill could cut veterans or would cut veterans benefits. McCarthy spoke with CNN's Hadas Gold during his visit to Jerusalem.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Do you have any regrets about how the bill was written considering we're hearing some critics criticism from the V.A. and those that might threaten veterans' health care?
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA): Can you tell me where in the bill it cuts the VA? It doesn't. See? This is the damage that when people do not tell the truth about the bill. It's actually goes to the funding where we were four months ago. If you look at back to the Obama-Biden budget that they passed for the next 10 years, it's actually spends more than what they proposed at this time.
 
And the work of Congress gets to decide we're spending is just like every family household. I'm very sad that the Democrats would think about cutting the veterans because we would not. GOLD: And then also, on your meetings with the Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, do you feel as though he's in control of this government considering some of the statements we've heard from some of his ministers?
 
MCCARTHY: Yes. He's the -- he's the Prime Minister, he's in control.
 
GOLD: Now, do you think though that he will bring this judicial overhaul plan back on the table?
 
MCCARHY: Look, it's -- there's work but I think what's happening now what he told me is they're working with both sides to come together to a compromise to try to solve the problem. 
 <br>[02:30:06]
 
I've heard from both sides and both sides says, there need to have some reform.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Earlier Monday, McCarthy addressed the Knesset, praising Israel as the greatest ally of the United States. He also said if President Biden won't invite Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to the White House, he would invite him to address Congress instead. Russia appears to be increasing its long-range missile strikes on Ukraine. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy reports an attack on the city of Pavlohrad, has killed two people and wounded 40 others. The missiles hit residential buildings and six schools in the Eastern rail hub a hundred kilometers from the frontline.
 
Russia says it was targeting ammunition and weapons facilities. Meanwhile, the Governor of the Bryansk region in Russia, blames an explosive device for a train derailment and fire, no one was killed in that incident. When newly declassified U.S. Intelligence shows more than 100,000 Russian soldiers have been killed in the war on Ukraine since December. 20,000 of those in the fight from Bakhmut. CNN's Chief International Security Correspondent Nick Paton Walsh reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): It was hard to get much uglier, but each dawn still the battle for Bakhmut grinds on. Ukraine Monday said it had pushed Russian forces back who would abandon positions. Months of agonizing fighting, for about a football field every day say analysts. Leaving little standing and Russian injured, the soldiers here said abandoned. There was a guy laying there in the reeds, he said, yelling guys come and help me for three days, only a hundred yards from the Russians. Also, emerging to on this, the road of life the last weigh in and out of the city. News of the death of Cooper Harris Andrews, age 26, a former U.S. Marine and firefighter from Cleveland, Ohio, who felt compelled to join Ukraine's fight.
 
WILLOW ANDREWS, MOTHER OF COOPER HARRIS ANDREWS: Cooper, wanted to correct things. We had a lot of conversations about fashion, I said Cooper. So, that means you're just going over there to drive an ambulance. And as you know, you just don't believe in stuff, he like to do something about it.
 
COOPER HARRIS ANDREWS (voiceover): Let's make a picture for our history.
 
WALSH (voiceover): Here, he is near the front line in January as part of the foreign Legion described as ideological to the core and anti- authoritarian. His body has yet to be recovered from Bakhmut, as the fighting is too intense. His mother recalled the last time they spoke.
 
W. ANDREWS: I asked Cooper because I'm like Cooper mom, like is there anything I can try and get to you or send it? And Cooper said yes. Can you send me hot sauce and chopsticks. So, I kept like a thousand chopsticks in my house because I was trying to get chopsticks for everyone. I figured Cooper loves chopsticks. And I have all these little packages of hot sauce that I was going to send to Cooper.
 
WALSH (voiceover): Over the past weeks graphic battle footage has emerged, showing what it's like when Russians get into Ukrainian trench network. Here, a soldier races into cover. But soon a shell hits. They are all miraculously OK, but the attack has started. Watch and you see a Russian approach and throw a grenade. He misses, and they go on to shoot down Russians advancing meters from them. Shells continue to land. The attack persists for over 10 minutes. But the brutal fight for Bakhmut goes on and on. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And we'll be right back.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Well, May Day protests in France have left more than a hundred police officers wounded and nearly 300 demonstrators in custody. CNN's Paris Correspondent Melissa Bell has more on Monday's violent demonstrations.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Even after months of protests, it was a day of remarkable violence. Anger not just at pension reform, but at the government itself. Clashes erupted within the first half hour of demonstrations in Paris. May day is a traditional day of Marches for worker's rights in France. But this year with the raising of the retirement age from 62 to 64 protesters were out in droves. In Marseille, Rouen, Toulouse and in the capital.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): We just have to look at the processions behind. You can see that today is a historic May Day. And we can see that this day of mobilization is a stinging denial of all the bids made by the government. BELL (voiceover): From September the French will start working longer than they had after the government pushed through the reform without a vote in Parliament. But the unions have vowed to fight on, nonetheless.
 <br>[02:40:02]
 
(on camera) This May the first, was always expected to be an important barometer of the popular anger there is out there. But it's likely also an important measure of how difficult the next four years or governing are likely to be for the French president.
 
(voiceover) All the more so, because despite the many months of strikes and sporadic violence, more than 62 percent of the French are sympathetic to the movement, according to polling from April.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We're going to show Mr. Macron, that the country we are not happy with this reform, and it will not do.
 
BELL (voiceover): The government says the current pension system is simply not affordable, its deficit at risk of spiraling out of control. But that line hasn't dampened the popular anger so far. With frustration against Emmanuel Macron and his manner of governing, showing no signs of letting up. Melissa Bell CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: I'm Rosemary Church, for our international viewers "WORLD SPORT" is next. For those of you here in North America I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment.
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: There's a looming crisis at America's Southern border with thousands of migrants are gathering across at least four northern cities in Mexico. Officials and advocates say more than 36,000 migrants are now sleeping in shelters and on streets. They're waiting for May 11, when the pandemic era restrictions known as Title 42 expire in the U.S. Thousands more migrants are continuing to make their way to border cities. It's prompted the mayor of El Paso, Texas to declare a state of emergency as the city braces for an influx of migrants. And CNN's Jeremy Diamond is following developments and has more now from Washington.
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITEHOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, in just over a week Title 42, that pandemic era border restriction, that allowed U.S. border officials to rapidly expel migrants crossing into the United States is set to expire. And U.S. officials as well as local officials along the U.S.-Mexico border. They are already bracing for what is expected to be a surge in migrants of following the expiration of that authority. And already, you are seeing some cities along that U.S.- Mexico border beginning to prepare for that surge. The city of El Paso, Texas as well as the city of Brownsville, Texas. Both of them, issuing states of emergency in El Paso that will allow them to set up temporary shelters to deal with that expected influx of migrants. And that's because we know that there are already thousands of migrants in northern Mexico that are waiting for Title 42 to expire, in order to cross into or to attempt to cross into the United States. 9,000 it believed to be in Tijuana, 10 to 12,000 in the city of Juarez, Reynosa 16,000 and one and half thousand in Matamoros. A DHS official told CNN that several border detention facilities along the U.S.-Mexico border are already over capacity. And in recent weeks, we have seen 7,000 daily encounters of migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border. And again, all of that with the expectation that those numbers are going to go up. Once Title 42 expires.
 
Now, U.S. officials here in Washington, they have been preparing for months for the expiration of that pandemic era policy. They are preparing a new asylum rule that they are expected to roll out in the coming week or so, that would bar migrants who travel through other countries from applying for asylum in the United States. They are also looking at expediting the asylum screening program and adding resources to the border. But those additional resources, including some that the Department of Homeland Security, reprogrammed for other programs to dedicate it to the border. The Secretary of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas says even that won't be enough.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEJANDRO MAYORKAS, U.S. HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY: While the department is prudently utilizing the limited funding Congress has provided to prepare for the post Title 42 environment. This notification of repurposing existing funds is only a fraction of what we will ultimately need. But we cannot do everything that we need to do until Congress provides the needed resources and reforms. We call on Congress to provide the resources we need to continue our work.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DIAMOND: And what you hear there from the Secretary of Homeland Security is not only a call on Congress to issue new funding to the department to help with the surge of migrants that's expected at the southern border. And also, of course, a call to reform the immigration system, a decade's old system that officials say makes the problems at the border that much worse. but what you're also hearing is an acknowledgment that those first few weeks following the expiration of Title 42, could potentially seriously strain the U.S. immigration system. Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Washington.
 
CHURCH: And joining me now from California, Ariel Ruiz Soto is a Policy Analyst at the Migration Policy Institute. Appreciate you being with us.
 
ARIEL RUIZ SOTO, POLICY ANALYST, MIGRATION POLICY INSTITUTE: Thank you for having me.
 
CHURCH: So, how bad is the situation at the U.S.-Mexico border right now? And how much worse will it likely get once Title 42 comes to an end? SOTO: The situation of the U.S.-Mexico border right now is seen about between 5,400 to 8000 migrants arrive daily across the border. Which has placed significant restrictions at the for the different agencies of the U.S. government, but also for the communities on the U.S. and the Mexican side.
 <br>[02:50:16] 
 
This led to only, not only a need for more assistance for humanitarian reasons, but also for better and considering plans for policies coming forward. Specifically, as we approach the May 11, deadline when Title 42, a pandemic or a rule could be ended. And more migrants may be expected to arrive.
 
CHURCH: Now, El Paso and Texas has declared a state of emergency as a result of the imminent and to Title 42. What's your reaction to that response by the man?
 
SOTO: The response of El Paso city really exemplifies what we think is likely to continue in other places across the U.S.-Mexico border. It's really a response to try to prepare for potential increases on migrants arriving to the border, and really an ask for assistance from the federal government, but also NGOs to try to prepare additional shelter and services that may be needed once the Title 42 rule ends here in about a week.
 
CHURCH: So, what exactly should Texan cities be doing right now to prepare for the the imminent end of Title 42?
 
SOTO: Well, doesn't say it should begin to think to reconsider some of the capacity that they have, to align coordination plans with different states as well. Not just in Texas but for example, considering coordination to for transportation to other cities. We know that this happened before, with, for example, folks from El Paso going to Chicago, New York or other places, that's one place that can happen. But at the same time, El Paso should or other cities on the board, not just in Texas, should also work with Mexican cities to try to understand, what could be the potential expected increase. And, of course, the different layers of government try to provide additional resources, not just initially, but continuously. Because we know that even if the numbers begin to change next week. The real progress in the -- in the system is going to happen for at least a month or so.
 
CHURCH: And what do you think needs to be done to update immigration laws in this country so they can better respond --
 
SOTO: Right.
 
CHURCH: -- to the influx of people at the southern border?
 
SOTO: Well, clearly, there's a significant -- there's significant policy change that is needed at the U.S.-Mexico border. One that actually starts with increasing and providing better assistance for U.S. asylum claims. One that is more fair, and transparent about, who can come to the country in and seek asylum in which ways. And I think the Biden administration is beginning to work on that. At the same time, we do need to consider how to improve services and collaboration between NGOs and local and state officials.
 
We have heard a lot about funding, for example, the Federal government is providing to cities, memorials to happen to funding can be more contained -- consistent and sustainable, not just for the cities for the poor, but for the NGOs as well that are really doing some of the legwork on the ground. And then finally, regardless of what happens after May 11, we're expected to see continuing collaboration with the region to try to better address the issues of migration before they come to the U.S.-Mexico border, which is really here at the essence of what's needed in the long term.
 
CHURCH: So, what do you say to those critics who claim that America can take in all of these immigrants that that it's all full, and there's no more room? What do you say to those people? 
 
SOTO: Well, a couple of things. First, is that just because migrants are arriving at the U.S.-Mexico border doesn't mean that they'll get to stay in the country. And in fact, that's Biden administration plan that when May 11, comes to the (INAUDIBLE) comes to end. Then, more migrants will be expelled and returned to their countries under Title eight proceedings that actually pull it plays consequences of migrants who are returning. Essentially, barring them from the entry to United States in the future.
 
At the same time, one of the things that we have to assume in this type of scenario is that even when migrants do stay here for a period of months afterwards, many of them will have to follow through immigration proceedings. And at some point, the majority of them will have to be returned because they will not qualify for asylum. We also need to work at the -- with regional partners to actually set the right incentives and transparency about what U.S. policy is, given that hasn't been the case for the last few years.
 
CHURCH: Ariel Ruiz Soto, thank you so much for talking with us, appreciate it.
 
SOTO: Thank you.
 
CHURCH: And now, to New York, where the stars were shining bright for the 2023 Met Gala. This year's event paid tribute to the late designer Karl Lagerfeld. The fundraiser benefits the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute. WNBA star Brittney Griner and her wife Cherelle with her. Griner has just began speaking publicly about spending nearly 10 months in a Russian prison. And tennis legend Serena Williams announced just before the Gala that she is expecting her second child. Williams and her husband have a five-year-old daughter, Olympia. 
 <br>[02:55:01]
 
And finally, this hour an announcements shorter course and bittersweet emotions from Aerosmith fans. The legendary rockers have announced their farewell tour. After spending 50 years walking this way, Steven Tyler and company are ready to strut off into the sunset. 40 dates have been announced for their final North American tour with special guests The Black Crowes. Aerosmith says it's not goodbye, it's peace out. And that wraps up this hour of CNN NEWSROOM, I'm Rosemary Church. Do stay with us. I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[03:00:00]