Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Expelled Tennessee Democrats to Reinstate Through a Council Vote; Imam Injured at a New Jersey Mosque, Worshippers Pin Down Attacker; President Biden visits Northern Ireland to Mark Good Friday agreement's 25th Year; Thousands of Worshippers Gathered in Israel to mark Three Different Religious Occasions; Seoul Expected to Hold Discussions with U.S. on National Security; Recent Russian strikes partially destroying a building leave two casualties; Beijing Puts Taiwan on Alert; China Accuses U.S. Navy of Illegally Intruding into South China Sea; Dalai Lama's Comment To a Boy Goes Viral. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired April 10, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States, and all around the world. You're watching "CNN Newsroom", and I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead, expelled and then reinstated, two democratic lawmakers in Tennessee are pushing to get their seats back this week.
 
President Biden getting ready to visit Northern Ireland, this as we mark the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday agreement that brought peace. 
 
And the fallout from leaked Pentagon documents, how it could make Ukraine's fight against Russia that much harder.
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): Live from CNN Center, this is "CNN Newsroom" with Rosemary Church. 
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us. And we begin here in the United States, where officials in Nashville, Tennessee are said to determine the fate of expelled Democratic state lawmaker Justin Jones. 
 
In the coming hours, the Nashville Metro Council will vote on whether to reinstate him back into the states' House of Representatives. Jones was one of two black lawmakers expelled by a Republican supermajority last week for taking part in a gun reform protest on the House floor. A third member, who is white, was spared. 
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Monday evening, the Metropolitan Council here right behind me in Nashville will decide the political future of ousted lawmaker, Former Representative Justin Jones. They are set to not only vote to appoint him but also a vote to suspend a council rule that prohibits an appointment and a nomination from happening during the same meeting. 
 
If they're successful with that, then they will go ahead and appoint him to his former seat as an interim successor. They will need a supermajority for that, that's 27 council members to vote for that. 
 
We've also heard from Councilman Jeff Syracuse that they have not received any threats here of any sort of political retribution for reappointing Justin Jones back to his seat. 
 
Meanwhile, when it comes to Justin Pearson, the other ousted lawmaker, he delivered a powerful sermon on Easter Sunday. Take a listen.
 
REP. JUSTIN PEARSON (D-TN), EXPELLED STATE LAWMAKER:  Resurrection is always promised, let them beat, let them lead you, let them expel, let them kick out, let them do what they must. There's a promise that Sunday's resurrection is on the way. 
 
ROSALES: And when it comes to Pearson's vacancy that is entirely up to the Shelby County Board of Commissioners will -- we're told by the Chairman that they are not planning to discuss Pearson situation up until the regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, and even then it's unclear when they will schedule a special meeting to address that open seat. 
 
We are also seeing on social media, organizers, Nashvillians right here, organizing a day of action. So they will meet here before city council, to rally, and then after that city council meeting, they will go over and march to the state capital. 
 
Isabel Rosales, CNN, Nashville, Tennessee. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: A member of the Nashville Metro Council who will hold that special meeting says thousands of her constituents are demanding that both the ousted lawmakers be reinstated. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KYONZTE TOOMBS, METRO NASHVILLE CITY COUNCIL: We've heard from, at this point, thousands of constituents, most of whom are in the district representative -- represented by Representative Jones, and they want him back in the seat. They elected him, essentially the voice of an entire district was silenced last week and that's undemocratic, and I feel like most of my colleagues believe that that is undemocratic, and this is really the right thing to do to restore him to the seat that he was elected to. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: In Iowa, there's criticism and anger from victim advocate groups after the Des Moines Register reported that the state has halted its practice of paying for emergency contraception and, in some cases, abortions for sexual assault victims. 
 
A spokesperson for the newly elected Republican Attorney General said the payments are on hold as part of a review of victim services and as she evaluates whether this is an appropriate use of public funds. In a statement to the Des Moines Register, the CEO of Planned Parenthood North-Central States called the move deplorable and reprehensible. 
 <br>[03:05:02]
 
The U.S. Health and Human Services secretary says the Biden administration is considering all options after a Texas judge ruled to suspend the Food and Drug Administration's approval of a medication abortion pill. That ruling drawing strong reaction across the U.S., including on Capitol Hill. 
 
CNN's Alayna Treene has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER The reaction from lawmakers has been pretty disparate. After the court's decision was announced, Democrats immediately started railing against the ruling. They held press conferences and spend the airwaves, and some have even heaped pressure on President Biden to ignore the judge's decision altogether. 
 
Now, Republican lawmakers, meanwhile, have been far less outspoken, though we did hear from a few who are pressed on the issue during the Sunday shows that includes Congressman Tony Gonzales. He's a Republican from Texas, who had pretty harsh words for the Biden administration. Here's what he had to say.
 
REP. TONY GONZALES (R-TX): If the administration wants to not lead this ruling -- not live up to this ruling, then we're going to have a problem. And it may be a come a point where House Republicans on the appropriation side have to defund FDA programs that don't make sense. 
 
TREENE: Now, not all Republicans are taking the same position. Others like Senator Lindsey Graham are urging the party to tamp down the divisive rhetoric and frame their positions as reasonable. Here's Lindsey Graham. 
 
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): I want to protect as many babies as possible. I want exceptions for pregnancies as result of rape, incest, if the life of the mothers in jeopardy, then the family can decide. I do believe in common sense restrictions on abortion. That's where America is at. We can win this issue at the ballot box, if we show up with reasonable positions. If we have our head in the sand, we're gonna lose. 
 
TREENE: So, I argue that Graham's comments on this are pretty indicative of the broader political environment that Republicans face when it comes to this issue. This is a very tricky territory for the party to navigate abortion in the wake of the Dobbs decision last year has not been a winning issue for Republicans, and we saw that during the 2022 Midterm elections. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Our thanks to CNN's Alayna Treene for that report. 
 
And earlier I spoke with Jessica Levinson, a professor at Loyola Law School, about the judge's ruling in Texas. I asked her what she expects the outcome will be if this case ends up at the Supreme Court. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JESSICA LEVINSON, PROFESSOR, LOYOLA LAW SCHOOL: This is a very conservative Supreme Court, and of course, it is the same court that overturned Roe v. Wade, and said that there is no constitutionally protected right to obtain an abortion. 
 
Having said that, this is a slightly different legal question, and I think that there are a couple of -- kind of escape hatches for the Supreme Court if they don't want to get to the big merits issue here.
 
For instance, the people who sued in the Texas case, the doctors who sued and the medical associations who sued, I think there's a real legal question as to whether or not they have something called standing to walk into federal courthouse doors. I don't think that they proved that they have enough of an injury in order to be the plaintiffs, and that could provide the Supreme Court, again, with kind of a safety valve. 
 
The other thing for people to remember is that, yes, this is a very conservative court. But if this Texas ruling stands, it also means that a single judge can essentially undermine approval by the FDA for other drugs as well, and that's a precedent that even this court might not want to set. So, I think there's some reason to kind of pause before we say, oh, it's a conservative ruling, and it's a conservative court, so they'll uphold it. 
 
CHURCH: And Jessica, while all of this plays out, the Iowa Attorney General's office has just halted its long-term practice of paying for emergency contraception, and, in some cases, abortions for sexual assault victims. What's going on here? 
 
LEVINSON: I think that what we're seeing in the wake of the Dobbs decision, that June decision that overturned Roe v. Wade, is that states really are taking steps to make it very, very difficult to obtain abortions, sometimes outright banning them. 
 
But this is really a political decision that they want to try and make it very difficult for some women, including victims of sexual assault and rape, to obtain an abortion. And it's a political decision that they have made, I think, that they have the legal right to do so at this point, unless there's something under the State Constitution that would prevent them. 
 
But I think what we're also seeing in a few elections, the -- for instance, the Wisconsin Supreme Court election, some other state elections leading up to 2024, is that these types of policy changes may not be popular with a lot of not just Democrats, but Independents and Moderates. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Our thanks to Jessica Levinson for her perspective there.
 
Well, a shocking attack in New Jersey during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. An imam was stabbed while leading prayers Sunday morning at a mosque in the city of Paterson.
 <br>[03:10:03]
 
The attacker then tried to run away, but worshippers caught him and held him down until police arrived. 
 
Gloria Pazmino has more now from the scene. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: And Ramadan is the holiest month in the Muslim calendar, a time that is supposed to be for peace and unity that was marked by violence early here on Sunday morning at the Omar Mosque here behind me, that's when police say a man who had joined into the early morning prayers pulled out a knife and attacked Imam Sayed El-Nakib, who is now at an area hospital, recovering from wounds sustained to his lungs. 
 
Now, people here told us that it was the congregants who responded right away at the time of that attack, who basically helped to make sure that the attack was not much worse. They helped to subdue the subs -- the suspect until police arrived at the scene. 
 
Now, we know, as I said, Imam Sayed El-Nakib is recovering at the hospital. And right now, police telling us, the investigation is ongoing into exactly what the motive was, and the identity of the person behind this attack. 
 
We spoke with the spokesperson for the mosque who told us that the imam is recovering in the hospital and encouraged the Muslim community here in the area to still come out and participate in prayers during this holy month. 
 
ABDUL HAMDAN, OMAR MOSQUE SPOKESPERSON: When this first happened, the congregation, we had over 200 congregants at the mosque, and we consider them to be heroes. Notwithstanding that the attacker was yielding a knife, they followed him as he attempted to exit the mosque, and they were able to bring him down and apprehend him and hold him until Paterson Police and Passaic County Sheriff's Department arrived and the rest of him.
 
I expect him to, you know, come out of this and be forgiving of the attacker and continue to deliver a message of peace and love. 
 
PAZMINO: Now, prayers have continued here throughout the day, and they will continue for the remainder of the Ramadan celebration. But police here in the area have increase security here at this mosque as well as other mosques here in Paterson, New Jersey, which is home to one of the largest Muslim communities here in the state. So this community really shocked and shaken by that violent attack but
 
 trying to come together in response to what happened this morning and trying to continue to carry on with their celebration. 
 
Also just speaking about the fact that it's not just Ramadan but also Easter and Passover, and it's a time where so many different communities are trying to come together to celebrate and a time of peace and unity. People here said that they were shocked by the event but relieved that it wasn't worse. 
 
Reporting in Paterson, New Jersey, Gloria Pazmino, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And still to come. Israeli police boost forces amid tensions in Jerusalem and as thousands of worshippers come to pray. We'll have the latest. 
 
And U.S. President Joe Biden heads to Northern Ireland this week to mark the 25th anniversary of the landmark peace accord. I'll speak with the Provost of a Belfast University campus about why Mr. Biden's speech there will be historic in itself. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Well, fresh off the Easter holiday, U.S. President Joe Biden is gearing up for an overseas trip on Tuesday, including a stop in Northern Ireland to celebrate an historic agreement.
 
CNN's Arlett Saenz has details from the White House. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ARLETT SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: President Biden is preparing to travel to Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland this week as he seeks to highlight not only the United States ties to the region but also highlight his own personal history. 
 
The President will depart the White House on Tuesday as he first travels to Belfast, where he will be honoring the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement, that agreement that helped end decades of sectarian violence in Northern Ireland. 
 
After his visit to Belfast, the president will then travel to the Republic of Ireland, where he is expected to hone in on some of his own personal ancestry. President Biden often talks with pride about his Irish ancestry, and he will be visiting some of the areas of personal significance to him and his family. 
 
The White House saying he will visit areas that were home to the Finnegans of County Louth and the Blewitts of County Mayo. President Biden so often points back to the Irish poets that he learned from his youth, and really wears his Irish ancestry as a big piece of pride, that when he talks about his family. 
 
Now, the president will also be traveling abroad as there are hosts of domestic issues facing him in his administration right here back home, including that recent ruling when it comes to medication abortion, which the White House has vowed to fight every step of the way. 
 
Arlett Saenz, CNN, the White House.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHURCH: Again. Mr. Biden's first stop will be Belfast to commemorate a quarter century of peace in Northern Ireland, and here's how it unfolded. 
 
In 1993, key leaders from Ireland's nationalist movement began talks aimed at ending decades of sectarian violence. An IRA Ceasefire in 1994 allowed for peace talks to begin. The next year, representatives from Ireland's Republican Sinn Fein party, met with a British government minister for the first time in 23 years.
 
The IRA ended its ceasefire for a time, but it was reinstated in 1997, paving the way for Sinn Fein to take part in multi-party talks at Stormont. And finally, one year later, the Good Friday agreement was signed and endorsed through an historic referendum. 
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
Well, President Biden is said to mark the anniversary with a speech at Ulster University's New Belfast campus. And joining me now via Skype from Belfast is the University Provost, Cathy Gormley-Heenan. Thank you so much for being with us. 
 
CATHY GORMLEY-HEENAN, UNIV. PROVOST, ULSTER UNIVERSITY: Thank you for inviting me.
 
CHURCH: So, President Biden will be the fourth serving U.S. President to visit Northern Ireland. How significant has the role of the U.S. and its various administrations been in this peace process, do you think? 
 
GORMLEY-HEENAN: Hugely significant. It really can't be underestimated. If the relationship between Britain and the U.S. has been referred to as the special relationship, for Northern Ireland, it has always been a very special relationship, certainly accelerated very much from that period of time when the Clintons became involved during the early years of the peace process, right through to the Bush administration and their work on decommissioning and demilitarization, Obama's work on helping encourage people to remove the peaceful, and now Biden's visit to Northern Ireland, which were really very excited about and which will be a very special day in the university's history. 
 
CHURCH: And so, how symbolic is this particular U.S. presidential visit to Ulster University's new Belfast campus? GORMLEY-HEENAN: It's hugely significant for us. Ulster University's
 
 new Belfast campus really is a perfect symbol of the progress that has been made in Northern Ireland over the last 25 years. 
 
And let me explain why that is. During the conflict, the central area of business, Belfast City Center, was effectively isolated and protected by security fencing, and the areas that surrounded the city center where largely left derelict and the neighborhoods were very physically separated from the city center. 
 
So, the relocation of our university campus right into the heart of the city center has dramatically altered this picture. We've brought 15,000 staff and students, which is the equivalent size of a small time, to work and study in the city center. 
 
The increased number of international students has really very visibly changed the face of Belfast, and most importantly of all, the erection of a landmark building that's constructed in both local stone and a million square feet of glass is a huge expression of the confidence in a city that has been infamous for destruction of lives and property and the sound of breaking glass. 
 
So, the visit really symbolically couldn't be more important for us as a demonstration of just how far we've come over the last 25 years. 
 
CHURCH: Yeah. And talk to us about how difficult and tortured that journey has been defined peace in Northern Ireland, and why do you think it took 10 years for this fourth U.S. presidential visit? 
 
GORMLEY-HEENAN: Well, I think, you know, peace is a process. It's not an event. So, 25 years ago was a momentous occasion for us in terms of the peace process. It was the moment at which we decided as a -- as a place to work in a different way together. But as I say, it's a process and it's not an event. It's a marathon, and it's not a sprint. And most importantly, it's a relay race, and it's not a single person track event. 
 
So, over the period of time, since then, until now, the baton has had to be passed on to successive U.S. presidents who have retained that interest in Northern Ireland and on two successive leaders in Northern Ireland, who have taken us inch by inch further towards peace and prosperity, and a brighter future for everyone that that lives here. 
 
But I think the reason why it takes a length of time is really that there's no moment where people just suddenly change how they feel, how they think, how they perceive the future to be. It's certainly something that is built piece by piece and brick by brick, and that's what we've done in building our new campus in the city center. 
 
CHURCH: And just very quickly, are they still tensions?  
 
GORMLEY-HEENAN: Certainly, in terms of peace and reconciliation, the places transformed. It is so completely different to anyone who visits from what it looked like 25 or 30 years ago.
 
The post-Brexit landscape has created some tensions, but the whole principles that underpin the Good Friday agreement, which were very much about inclusion, consent, equality and the rethinking of the totality of relationships, are right at the heart of how we work our way through the current political impasse, that we find ourselves in the in the midst of now. All sides really want to protect the integrity of the Good Friday agreement, and stay true to the principles that underpinned it.
 <br>[03:25:00]
 
CHURCH: Cathy Gormley-Heenan, thank you so much for joining us, appreciate it. 
 
GORMLEY-HEENAN: Thank you. 
 
CHURCH: A tense calm has fallen over Jerusalem where worshippers from three different faiths converged for one of the holiest times of the year just days after violence erupted. 
 
Jewish worshippers gathered at the western wall, where the traditional priestly blessing for Passover proceeded peacefully. Israeli police boosted forces ahead of the prayers and other religious events, including man -- Easter Mass, and Ramadan prayers at the Al-Aqsa mosque. 
 
So, let's go live now to Jerusalem, where CNN's Salma Abdelaziz is standing by. So Salma, what is the latest? 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely. We had over the last several days, of course, these escalating tensions, this latest spat of violence that really all begin with Israeli police raid on Wednesday on Al-Aqsa mosque, but what it resulted in was hit for tap, very measured responses if you will, between Israeli military forces and other Palestinian militant groups in Gaza, in Southern Lebanon, Syria as well entering the fray yesterday.
 
But really, these incidents seem to escalate, with the Israeli police announcing a terror attack in Tel Aviv. One person killed there late into the hours. And then, there was a couple of days, of course ago, in the occupied West Bank, two sisters that were killed in a shooting attack, all of this just factored in to again that tense calm that you're speaking of. It has been quiet for the last 24 hours. 
 
But there was a standoff, if you will, yesterday in that flashpoint place, of course, the Old City of Jerusalem, where three different faiths were celebrating simultaneously three different religious events, you had Easter Sunday Mass happening, as well as prayers at the Western Wall, as well as of course, that important flashpoint complex, the Al-Aqsa complex known as Temple Mount to Jews. 
 
There seemed to be a tense standoff there, Rosemary, at one point with Muslim worshippers still there for prayers, it's the holy month of Ramadan, so prayers go through the night. They're extremely important to Muslims during that month. Meanwhile, under heavy Israeli police presence, there were Jewish worshippers passing through that complex.
 
Now, again, all of that did pass peacefully, but you still have all of these factors in place, all of these ingredients, if you will, that could potentially add to a volatile situation, escalating rhetoric from Palestinian militant groups., You also have, of course, the Israeli military on high alert and just across this country, just a sense of fear of worry and concern. 
 
CHURCH: Salma Abdelaziz, joining us live from Jerusalem. Many thanks for that report. 
 
And still to come, The U.S. is doing damage control after highly classified intelligence documents were leaked on social media. We're looking at the growing fallout. Back with that in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  Welcome back, everyone. Well, we are seeing more fallout from highly classified Pentagon documents leaked online in recent weeks. The documents appeared last month on the social media platform, Discord, according to screenshots of the post reviewed by CNN. Taken together, they are providing a rare window into how Washington spies on allies and foes alike.
 
One of those allies, South Korea, says discussions will be held with counterparts in the United States after some of the documents revealed a detailed conversation between South Korean National Security officials regarding Ukraine.
 
As a whole, the topics exposed in the lake range from U.S. support for Ukraine to information on other key allies like Israel. They appear to have been produced between mid-February and early March. U.S. officials say they feel all of this could jeopardize intelligence sources and methods and compromise foreign relationships. The Justice Department confirmed to CNN that it has launched an investigation into the source of the leak.
 
CNN Military Analyst Lieutenant General Mark Hertling explained why leaks like these are problematic, especially in the middle of a war. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RET. LT. GEN. MARK HERTLING, CNN MILITARY ANALYST:  Every country knows every other country conduct -- conducts intelligence operations against everyone, friend and foes alike. But when it's leaked to an open press, it's really problematic because it really generates a lack of trust between nations, both friends and foes, particularly friends. 
 
When you're also talking about a situation like we are in a shooting war between Ukraine and Russia and some of the information about our intelligence assessment gets out, it can be troubling. And as we've seen as reported in these documents, it could affect the operations which is not a good thing. You know, Ukraine is conducting operations hanging on tenuously. These intelligence leaks could affect that operation and that campaign. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  A source close to Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy told CNN, Ukraine has altered some of its military plans because of the leak. There are also concerns that sources who provided information about Russian troops might be in danger.
 
At least two people are dead in Ukraine after Russian strikes hit the city of Zaporizhzhia. Officials say the rockets ripped through this residential building early on Sunday, killing a 50-year-old man and his 11-year-old daughter. Crews managed to rescue a third person from the rubble. In his nightly address, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy again accused Russia of terrorism for carrying out the attack on Orthodox Palm Sunday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  This is how the terrorists' state is spending this Palm Sunday. This is how Russia is further isolating itself from the world from humanity. Every holy Christian holiday teaches us that although we may not know how, we can be sure that evil will lose. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And for more on both of these stories, I'm joined by Nada Bashir, who is in London. Good to see you, Nada. So, how is Ukraine responding to these leaked classified pentagon documents?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER:  Well, Rosemary, we've heard from a source close to President Zelenskyy who has described the revelation that the U.S. may have been spying on the Ukrainian President as unsurprising. But Ukrainian officials are said to be frustrated by the information leaked in these documents, particularly when it comes to the situation in the U.S. assessments of the situation on the ground in Ukraine.
 <br>[03:35:02]
 
One document from late February describing the battle for the Donbas region as likely heading towards a stalemate throughout 2023. And as you said there, we are learning from that one source that the Ukrainian armed forces of the Ukrainian government may now have altered their military plans as a result of the information revealed in these leaked documents.
 
So, it is important to note that a senior adviser to Ukraine's presidential office has said on Friday that this is inauthentic. In his view, he believes that the information in these documents is inauthentic and has no relation to the real plans of the Ukrainian armed forces on the ground. 
 
And then, of course, when it comes to Moscow, we are also learning more details from these documents about the U.S. government and the full extent of the U.S. government's penetration of the Russian Ministry Of Defense, as well as the notorious private military contractor group, the Wagner Organization, with clear documentation there, which suggest that the U.S. government has gained and intercepted details with regards to Russian targeting to a significant degree of detail when it comes to the location and timing of these in attacks. 
 
And of course, as you said that there is concern because a lot of this information that has been revealed in these documents is coming through intercepted communications. So, there is concern now the Russian armed forces may alter and change the way they are communicating in order to better conceal those plans from the likes of the U.S. government. Of course, there is real concern from the U.S. government's confidential human sources who could now be at risk as a result of this leak. 
 
CHURCH:  And Nada, what is the latest than you're hearing on Russian attacks in Zaporizhzhia?
 
BASHIR:  Well, look, we saw a barrage of attacks over the weekend as you mentioned there that strike in the early hours of Sunday morning, killing at least two people, a 50-year-old man and his 11-year old daughter, according to the Ukrainian authorities. And authorities say that we saw a barrage of attacks shelling and air strikes, as well as drone attacks across Ukraine's eastern region over the weekend, a significant amount of concern, of course, as we continue to see the strikes by the Russian armed forces intensify. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH: All right, Nada Bashir joining us live from London. Many thanks.
 
Well, since the outset of the war, Russia has been sending Ukrainians caught in the crossfire to its far east, in remote villages much closer to Alaska than the frontlines. Ukraine claims many of these cases are forced deportations, while Russia says it's a humanitarian effort. 
 
Over the course of several months, CNN has made contact with Ukrainians who ended up in a town by the Sea of Japan, also known as the East Sea. They described to CNN how they got there, how they're settling in and why many say they're unlikely to go home.
 
Scott McLean reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN REPORTER (voice-over):  In the chaos of battle in Mariupol in eastern Ukraine, the civilians caught in the crossfire had few good options. They could either escape to Russia or take their chances as the war intensified. Many of those who fled toward Russia were encouraged to live and work in the Far East, from Rostov, a 4,000-mile train journey to the edge of Siberia and a town just a stone's throw from North Korea. 
 
These are some of the first arrival, stepping off government-chartered trains a year ago. 
 
(on-camera): Why does Russia want those people there? NATHANIEL RAYMOND, YALE UNIVERSITY HUMANITARIAN RESEARCH LAB:  That's
 
 a great question. One is a propaganda benefit, positioning these people as somehow willingly seeking citizenship in Russia. The second benefit is that Russia simply needs bodies. In many parts of the country, they don't have enough citizens to make those municipalities function.
 
MCLEAN (voice-over):  This hotel in the coastal town of Wrangel was where new arrivals were put up at first. CNN reached several of them through a telegram group chat run by local volunteers, keeping a log of resident requests from baby food and toys to medicine. Anyone dissatisfied with their stay is told, sarcastically, to take their complaints to Moscow, the Kremlin, Putin.
 
The Russian government has long been eager to populate its resource rich far east and the state has tried several experiments to attract settlers, including those from ex-Soviet states. It now promises fleeing Ukrainians cash, housing assistance, citizenship and even free land. Though two people told CNN they were struggling to get the rent reimbursement they say the government had promised.
 
Natalia was struggling to find any housing at all, hardly enthused by her new reality. 
 
NATALIA, UKRAINIAN REFUGEE (through translator):  Nothing's changed except the place, but I no longer have a job that I love and a home that I love. 
 <br>[03:40:01]
 
MCLEAN (voice-over):  New arrivals quickly had their Ukrainian passport swapped for Russian ones. Natalia figures she can't go back.
 <br>[03:40:07]
 
NATALIA:  Because we are criminals there, because those who left for Russia are immediately considered criminals by the Ukrainian authorities, so I'm forbidden to go there. 
 
RAYMOND:  At this point, the absence of clarity is the biggest problem. There is, understandably within Ukraine, a absolute outrage against those who are perceived as collaborators. But the fact of the matter is that we are dealing here with the civilian population that was seeking refuge in a time of war. 
 
MCLEAN (voice-over):  Under the terms of Russia's relocation program, the Ukrainians are required to stay for at least three years. One woman, Marina (ph), told CNN that after that we will see. It depends on the job and material well-being. So far, it's not very easy. Another, Valeria (ph), said, plainly that her family will stay in Russia, and I don't even wanna think about Ukraine.
 
In a statement, the Ukrainian prosecutor general's office told CNN that safety and security of Ukrainian citizens is a major priority and that for many, the only safe passage was through Russia. Of course, they are not considered collaborators. They need to get to a third country and address a local Ukrainian consulate. It will issue them Ukrainian documents to return to Ukraine.
 
But for those who remain in Russia long-term, the future is less clear. By Ukrainian law, people who publicly deny occupation or who call for support for Russian actions are considered collaborators.
 
International law prohibits forcible transfers of people. Russia says more than five million Ukrainians have arrived in Russia since the full-scale war began. And while Ukraine says many were forcibly deported, some, like Oksana, said they went willingly.
 
OKSANA, UKRAINIAN REFUGEE (through translator):  We were saving our own lives.
 
MCLEAN (voice-over):  Though they had few other options.
 
Scott McLean, CNN London. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And still to come. Beijing puts Taiwan on alert. Three days of military drills are coming to a close, sending a warning about the islands growing ties with U.S. officials. Back with that in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  China is accusing the U.S. Navy of illegally intruding into the South China Sea. The U.S. says one of its guided missile destroyers was on a mission consistent with international law when it entered the area near what it calls Mischief Reef and China calls Meiji Reef. It comes on the final day of drills by the Chinese military in the waters and skies around Taiwan. Those exercises beginning after Taiwan's president returned from a trip to visit officials in the U.S. and Central America.
 
CNN's Beijing Bureau Chief Steven Jiang joins me now with the latest. Good to see you, Steven. So, what more are you learning about China's military drills around Taiwan and what's being said about any concerns of a miscalculation? 
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF:  Yeah, Rosemary, that is a great and very timely question because of what you just mentioned in terms of the Chinese reaction to the U.S. Naval warships latest freedom of navigation operation in the South China Sea.
 
Because even though the scale and intensity of China's latest war games around Taiwan, not reaching the level of what we saw last year after a then U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's visit to the island, remember after that trip, they launched their biggest war games around Taiwan in decades including firing missiles directly across the island. We have now seen that but the fact that they are now in a way
 
 normalizing these exercises and refining them and even increasing technical complexity in these exercises according to experts we talked to, that is really injecting a new element of instability, even potential danger, especially with Chinese assets, continuing to cross the medium line in the Taiwan strait, something both sides had observed for four decades until recently.
 
That is where the potential miscalculation may come in, because as you just said, it's not just the Taiwanese, but also Americans and their allies sending their warships and warplanes to this region. And that, of course, could potentially lead to not just confrontation but even conflict between the superpower -- two superpowers of the world.
 
But of course, the Chinese were found, so far, more restrained than last time for several reasons according to experts, one, out of consideration on the impact on domestic Taiwanese politics, because they do have a presidential election coming in early 2024. But also, of course, China's increasingly trying to present itself as a global peacemaker with a lot of foreign leaders coming and with a lot of expectations on what they could do to end the war in Ukraine, as well. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH:  All right. Steven Jiang joining us from Beijing. Many thanks.
 
And coming up, a big rally on a rain-soaked weekend at Augusta, we will have highlights from the Masters and a look at who captured their first-ever green jacket. Back in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  Some news just coming into CNN. The Dalai Lama is apologizing after a video emerged showing the spiritual leader kissing a child on the lips and then asking him to, quote, "suck my tongue." This occurred at an event in Northern India in February.
 
In a statement Monday, the office for the Dalai Lama said he wishes to apologize to the boy and his family as well as his many friends across the world for the hurt his words may have caused, adding he regrets the incident. His apology comes hours after video of the exchange went viral, sparking outrage on social media. And we will have more on this in a live report from Delhi, just ahead. 
 
When King Charles III is crowned next month at Westminster Abbey, the monarch will travel in style. Buckingham Palace says two carriages will take him to his coronation and back. First, the diamond jubilee state coach seen here will be used when he and Queen Camilla leave for the coronation in the morning. After the service, the 260-year-old Gold State Coach will be used for much larger procession back to Buckingham Palace. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SALLY GOODSIR, CURATOR OF DECORATIVE ARTS, ROYAL COLLECTION TRUST: The coach is huge. You might be able to tell that from how I'm standing beside it. It's nearly four meters tall. It's over seven meters long. It weighs four tons. Because of that, it can only be used at a walking pace, which really adds to the majesty and the stateliness of this great royal procession. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  The coronation will take place on May 6th. It will be the first time a new British sovereign is crowned in 70 years.
 
Spanish Golfer Jon Rahm now has his first green jacket after winning the 87th Masters Tournament at Augusta on Sunday. But it certainly didn't come easy. After a weekend of weather delays, the final day of competition became a marathon with Rahm rallying from several strokes down before taking the lead for good.
 
World Sports Don Riddell, has more now from Augusta.
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  Jon Rahm began the week here at Augusta with a double bogey. He has ended it as a double major winner, his first Masters title coming at the end of a grueling week and a very, very long day. He and all the other players had to come out early and finish their third rounds. And he began the day four strokes behind his playing partner, Brooks Koepka, but by the end of it, Rahm was four strokes clear at the top of the leaderboard.
 <br>[03:54:54]
 
It was an emotional scene as he celebrated on the 18th green with his wife and his two young kids. And this continues an extraordinary run of form. It's a just reward for the work he's been putting in lately. His sixth global victory since October, and it sends him back to the top of the world rankings. 
 
JON RAHM, WINNER OF 87th MASTERS TOURNAMENT:  We all dream of things like this as players and you try to visualize what it's gonna be like and what it's gonna to feel like. And when I hit that third shot on the green, it's just the wave of emotion of so many things has overtook me.
 
I never thought I was going to cry by winning a golf tournament, but I got very close on -- on that 18th hole. And a lot of it because of what it means to me and to Spanish Golf, right? It's Spain's 10th major for a player to win the Masters fourth and my second win, right, my second major win. It's pretty incredible. And I know this one was for Seve. I know he was up there helping and help he did. 
 
RIDDELL:  At Augusta this week, we have also witnessed the great Tiger Woods taking another step into the twilight of his career and it was more of a limp than a step. But after another fragile departure, we can only wonder how many more major tournaments he has in him.
 
However, the age of 52, his greatest rival, Phil Mickelson has roared back into the spotlight. Who could ever have imagined that lefty, he was mired in controversy this time last year, and who didn't even play here at Augusta, could shoot a 65 to finish in a tie for second. It's the lowest round by a 50-something player ever at the Masters.
 
And with three live golfers, finishing in the top six with Mickelson and Koepka contending for the green jacket, there is renewed focus on the strength and validity of the Saudi-backed rebel tour. Perhaps, it's not the golfing graveyard that some establishment figures had come to believe.
 
We leave Augusta with more questions than answers, but this compelling tournament has only served to heighten the excitement for the rest of the golf season. Back to you. 
 
CHURCH:  And thanks for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. Have yourselves a wonderful day. "CNN Newsroom" continues with Bianca Nobilo, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)