Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Miami Beefs up Security for Trump Court Appearance; NATO's Biggest Air Defense Exercise Kicks Off; 3 Dead after "Serious Incident" in England; Trump to be Arrested in Documents Probe; CNN Talks to UAE Ambassador to U.N.; BTS Fans Celebrate K-Pop Group's 10th Anniversary. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired June 13, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, hello and welcome to what is the second hour of "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson live 
 
 from Abu Dhabi. Coming up this hour an unprecedented day in America Former President Donald Trump and Republican candidate to the 2024 races set to be 
 
 arraigned in a Miami courtroom just hours from now.
 
And he will be arraigned on federal charges 37 felony charges in relation to his handling of classified documents after he left office. Well, a wave 
 
 of Russian missiles hit Central Ukraine overnight. Local officials say five civilian sites were hit including a residential building in which 11 people 
 
 were killed and dozens more were wounded.
 
Police in Britain are investigating what they are now calling a city attack on the streets of Nottingham in England. Three people were found dead at 
 
 two different sites three others were hurt in a car ramming attack. These incidents are believed to be linked and one man has been arrested. K-Pop 
 
 sensation BTS turns 10 and South Korea, showing its appreciation with a show of lights. Those are your headlines.
 
Well, we are just a few hours now from what will be an historic moment in America and indeed one that is being watched around the world. Donald Trump 
 
 will be become the first U.S. President to be arrested on federal charges. This has to do with classified documents he allegedly took after he left 
 
 office stashed at his Mar-a-Lago estate and refuse to give back.
 
Trump will be processed at the federal courthouse in Miami and he is expected to plead not guilty. Let's get you back to CNN's Carlos Suarez who 
 
 is outside the courthouse in Miami. And Carlos brings up to date. Tell us what are we expecting today?
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Becky, we are expecting the Former President here in downtown Miami at around two o'clock this afternoon. And 
 
 in the last couple of hours, the security perimeter outside of the federal courthouse really has expanded several streets that surround this 
 
 courthouse and have been closed.
 
We're starting to see a lot more members of the U.S. Secret Service as well as the Miami Police Department, the Miami Dade Police Department and other 
 
 state agencies here in South Florida. Again, the President the Former President is expected here at around two this afternoon.
 
His appearance in court we're told will be brief, after he has pleaded not guilty. He is expected to leave the courthouse here. We do not expect to 
 
 see him beyond being inside of that motorcade that will pull up to this courthouse here. And now this is where the rest of the story stands.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SUAREZ (voice over): In just hours, Former President Donald Trump will surrender at a Federal Courthouse in Miami.
 
MANUEL MORALES, MIAMI POLICE CHIEF: Make no mistake about it we're taking this this event extremely serious. We know that there's a potential of 
 
 things taking a turn for the worst but that's not the Miami way.
 
SUAREZ (voice over): Federal and local law enforcement officials are ramping up security around the courthouse expressing mounting concerns over 
 
 potentially large crowds of Trump's supporters gathering outside.
 
LINDA CATALINA, TRUMP SUPPORTER: We have unwavering support for Donald Trump, like we don't even care if he's going to be in jail. And we have to 
 
 write him in you know, a lot of us it's like Trump or nothing.
 
SUAREZ (voice over): Federal law enforcement is only tasked with securing the actual courthouse. Miami Police taped off the area with yellow police 
 
 tape and erected yellow barricades.
 
SUAREZ (on camera): Will that change because there is a lot of concern that people may try to storm the building or try to enter some of that area. I 
 
 mean, are you going to harden that area?
 
MORALES: Well, what I can tell you is reach back to the phones that have reached to you and tell them that there's no reason of fear.
 
SUAREZ (voice over): Former Miami Police Chief George told CNN that the choice not to establish barriers around the courthouse could be intentional 
 
 by Miami Police in order to avoid attracting crowds.
 
Trump is expected to be driven by Secret Service to an underground garage at the courthouse. He will not be seen by the public. Once he arrives he 
 
 will be placed under arrest read his rights and fingerprinted he will likely not have a mug shot taken.
 
Trump will then be taken to a courtroom on one of the top floors of the courthouse where he will hear the charges and enter his initial plea of not 
 
 guilty. Judge Jonathan Goodman, who is presiding over the arraignment, rejected a request from a large group of national media outlets to take 
 
 photographs inside the courthouse before the proceedings.
 
In a written order he says while the proceeding is "Genuinely historic" and of huge importance, allowing photographs would undermine the massive 
 
 security arrangements put in place. Trump's supporters gathered at Trump's Club, greeting him as he pulled up in his motorcade, giving the crowd 
 
 thumbs up.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We follow him anywhere.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And we'll do anything legal to stop this.
 
SUAREZ (voice over): Police had to intervene to break up a few anti-Trump demonstrators after they clashed with supporters. One protester wearing a 
 
 stripe the prison jumpsuit said this.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I grew up in New York City. I know what a con artist he is.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SUAREZ: And you are taking a look at one of the underground parking garages where we believe the Former President will be brought in by the United 
 
 States Secret Service. Again, the security perimeter outside of this courthouse really is growing by the hour.
 
We're told that once the Former President makes his way into the courthouse, the Secret Service is going to turn him over to the FBI from 
 
 there he is going to be processed, he'll be fingerprinted. But again, we're told a mug -- a photo of him is will not be taken. We're told Becky all of 
 
 this, again is only going to take a few minutes. And we do not expect to see the President beyond his arrival and then departure from the federal 
 
 courthouse here in Miami.
 
ANDERSON: And Carlos, we know that he called on his supporters to demonstrate on his behalf in New York last month or month and a half ago. 
 
 Is there any evidence that his supporters will actually turn up in numbers today?
 
SUAREZ: Yes, Becky. So that is the big question at this hour is just how many supporters of the Former President are going to make their way to this 
 
 part of South Florida? Having walked around the courthouse earlier today I can tell you, there is a good amount of Donald Trump's supporters here.
 
I put the number at a couple of 100 right now. The Miami Police Department says that they have enough resources. They have enough police officers to 
 
 deal with a crowd of up to 50,000 people. But right now, it doesn't seem like there's a whole lot of Donald Trump supporters here.
 
That however, could still change again he's not expected here in downtown Miami for at least the next three hours. And so it's conceivable that we 
 
 will see more people show up throughout the day.
 
ANDERSON: And just to be quite clear, these proceedings start, of course, with this arraignment this case to go on for months, if not years, correct?
 
SUAREZ: That's exactly right. So the indictment itself says that the trial could last at least 21 days. Now exactly when they'll go to trial is a 
 
 different story. Again, today really is just about his arraignment. He's going to be told the charges against him. He's going to enter that not 
 
 guilty plea.
 
And then from there, we've got to decide exactly when the next court hearing will be when discovery will take place, which is when all of the 
 
 evidence is made available to both the defense as well as the prosecution. So we are still a good amount of time between when this trial might get 
 
 underway, anywhere between weeks months, if not well into next year.
 
ANDERSON: Carlos thank you! And our special coverage of the arrest and arraignment of Donald Trump begins just a few hours from now. We'll be 
 
 reporting from Washington to Florida keep you informed throughout this pivotal moment in U.S. politics.
 
Well, more terrorist missiles that is how Ukraine's President is describing an attack on residential buildings in a city in Central Ukraine. Officials 
 
 there report 11 people killed and more than two dozen injured this latest Russian aerial assaults happening in both Russia and Ukraine or as both 
 
 Russia and Ukraine report intense fighting in the Eastern Donetsk and Southern Zaporizhzhia regions.
 
Sam Kiley, back with us this hour from the Ukrainian Capital! It's very unclear at this point as to whether this and much anticipated counter 
 
 offensive has become? You've been on the ground for weeks now in this stint and mumps over this over this conflict. In your assessment what exactly is 
 
 going on at this point and what's what the tactics here are?
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think in terms of the counter offensive, Becky, you're absolutely right. It's deliberately 
 
 unclear that a lack of clarity in terms of the public domain is exactly what the Ukrainian government is trying to achieve. They've even got a 
 
 campaign here, telling people to keep it quiet.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
But at the same time, if you look at -- if we take a look at what is actually going on? We've seen the destabilizing raids by Ukrainian backed 
 
 Russian dissidents into Russia itself. We've seen the long range attacks against the Russian logistics chain here inside Ukraine and more widely 
 
 inside Russian territory.
 
And now we're seeing an increased tempo of attacks in that southern front between Zaporizhzhia which is Ukrainian held and the Russian held City of 
 
 Donetsk in particular, that Southern Front very, very heavily guarded and defended by Russia.
 
The Ukrainians had left it alone now for many months, but they are now attacking it with some ferocity not on a massive scale still sort of one 
 
 level up from the probing attacks that we'd seen before. But I think definitely they are now intent on trying to break through and indeed, have 
 
 claimed some limited success in doing that.
 
I think that's the sort of broader picture when it comes to the counter offensive. Concurrent with that and likely to be wrapped into it, if it 
 
 develops further in the favor of Ukraine is the increasing advances that they're making to the Southeast of Bakhmut.
 
For example, if the troops in in that region can join up with advancing Russian troops, they may be able to start to approach the very heavily 
 
 defended City of Donetsk very much a prize over the I think much longer term as far as the Ukrainians are concerned.
 
But I think that -- and Vladimir Putin just come out with a statement saying that the destruction of the Kakhovka Dam had he said, unfortunately, 
 
 he said perhaps ironically, slowed the Ukrainian offensive plans because the flooding of that the Dnieper River valley below the dam has meant that 
 
 that can't be used.
 
Whether or not it was going to be part of the Ukrainian plan? We don't know. But it definitely is an impossible natural obstacle that is very much 
 
 to the advantage of the Russians in terms of their defensive posture at the moment, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Rafael Grossi the Head of the UN Security and Nuclear Agency is in Ukraine. What's he doing? And what is he hoping to achieve?
 
KILEY: Well, he has a number of monitors that are based permanently. They have rotated but they are -- there is a permanent presence of the U.N.'s 
 
 IAEA at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Station, which is when it's at full capacity, the largest nuclear power station on the whole in the whole of 
 
 Europe.
 
It's only got one reactor which is in a warm shutdown. All the others have been shut down. There isn't at the moment, a concern that there is a clear 
 
 and present danger to the nuclear power station in terms of access to the cooling waters from that dam above the now defunct or now burst Nova 
 
 Kakhovka dam.
 
Because they have a cooling pond that is lasting -- capable of lasting several months, but they will have to refill it the water costs below it is 
 
 dropping rapidly. And there are concerns that it won't be possible to refill it. That is the sort of effect of the dam but at the same time, this 
 
 is a frontline position Becky.
 
I think he'll be receiving reassurances too from the Ukrainians, and no doubt from the Russians, that they're not going to get into a fight inside 
 
 a nuclear power station. Now the Russians fought their way in to that nuclear power station, which was abandoned by the Ukrainian forces, rather 
 
 than have a serious battle over a nuclear installation that was running at a much higher capacity back in March last year.
 
There are having been assurances given by both sides that they would demilitarize this area ultimately, perhaps, but it is still a Russian base. 
 
 It is still used by the Russians to attack civilian targets in particular, but military too on the other side of the Dnieper River.
 
And as the Ukrainians push south if they're capable of doing that from Zaporizhzhia City, and there's every indication that that's what they would 
 
 like to do. Clearly, the presence of a nuclear power station basically on the front line is going to be absolutely top of the IAEA agenda. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes. Sam Kiley is on the ground. Sam your reporting is so important thank you very much indeed for joining us this hour here on CNN 
 
 "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson.
 
NATO's biggest ever air exercises underway in the skies over Germany. 10,000 personnel 250 aircraft from 25 nations participating in what is a 
 
 two week exercise known as Air Defender. A NATO Spokespersons says it sends a clear message that NATO is ready to defend every inch of allied territory 
 
 and that is a quote.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
Well, the NATO Secretary General meantime is meeting U.S. President Joe Biden at the White House today. Jens Stoltenberg is in his final months as 
 
 NATO Chief but before he steps down in October, President Biden is required to endorse a successor.
 
Now, as of now, Mr. Biden is said to be considering candidates from Britain, Denmark, the Netherlands, and Estonia. Well, earlier on CNN, 
 
 Stoltenberg talks about NATO's future and the war in Ukraine here is some of that interview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: What Ukraine does is to defend their own territory and the right of self-defense is enshrined in the UN 
 
 Charter, and they had the right to liberate their own land and NATO allies are not party to the conflict, but we help them with upholding the right of 
 
 self-defense.
 
And I think that this offensive, which is difficult and abroad, and it's still early days, but of course, the more land they gain, the more likely 
 
 it is that President Putin will understand that he has to sit down at the negotiating table, and agree to just enduring peace in Ukraine.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (on camera): So there's plenty of it on your agenda with President Biden today. But I think one of the most pressing items in 
 
 talking to U.S. officials, European diplomats, as well is trying to figure out who will take your position when you depart? You have been extended, do 
 
 you believe that that decision will be made and it's a collective decision sometime in the very near future?
 
STOLTENBERG: I have responsibility of almost all decisions in NATO except for one and that is, how to select my successor. My main focus -- that's 
 
 for the 31 allies to decide. I'm absolutely confident that they will find excellent succession.
 
My focus now is to lead this alliance and to my tenure ends, because we are the middle of -- we're in the middle of our war in Europe and we need to 
 
 support Ukraine and we need to also ensure that the war does escalate beyond the Ukraine and becomes a full-fledged war in Europe. And that's 
 
 also why it is so important to have military persons, especially eastern part of alliance.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (on camera): We mentioned before bringing you in these really huge drills and NATO exercises that are going on today. Notably 
 
 Sweden is involved in those but Sweden's ascension to NATO has consistently been blocked by Turkey.
 
But you have consistently said that you believe that some of the changes that they've made in their laws to sort of assuage the concerns of Turkey 
 
 will mean those they will be admitted. Have you had any indication from President Erdogan since being reelected, that his position and posture on 
 
 Sweden has changed?
 
STOLTENBERG: I'm absolutely confident that Sweden will become a full member of the alliance. And there will come a long way because last year all 
 
 allies also President Erdogan decided to invite Sweden to become a member and by giving them their we call the invitees status.
 
Sweden is now always sitting at the NATO table, integrating more and more into NATO military and civilian structures. What remains is the last bit 
 
 the formal ratification by all allies of Sweden. I met with Erdogan a few days ago, we agreed to convene what we call the permanent mechanism their 
 
 meeting actually this week in Ankara, to address the outstanding issues and to do what we can to have Sweden as a full member as soon as possible.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (on camera): So is it your view that Turkey is what needs to give here or Turkish government not -- Sweden doesn't need to do 
 
 anything more than they've already done. This is something that President Erdogan and his team needs to shift on?
 
STOLTENBERG: So my message has been for several months, also in Ankara, that Sweden has delivered on the commitments they made at the NATO Summit 
 
 last year in Madrid. They have lifted all restrictions on arms exports to Turkey, and they have stepped up their efforts to work together with Turkey 
 
 to fight terrorism.
 
And they have amended their constitutions -- constitutionally also strengthen the anti-counterbalance laws. But of course, we welcome that we 
 
 see more activities based on these changes. So we just had this weekend a new decision to extradite a person connected to PKK and that proves that 
 
 Sweden is delivering and it also shows that that Sweden is ready to be fully ratified as a member.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Jen Stoltenberg speaking to my colleagues earlier. Well still ahead this evening here on "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson, 
 
 police in England, investigating a serious incident as they describe it after three people have found dead in the City of Nottingham. A live report 
 
 on the very latest from there is after this.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
And little later, the UAE has always said climate is the defining challenge of all time. Those are the words of the UAE's Ambassador to the United 
 
 Nations. I've been talking to her about climate and conflict, especially in this region, that is coming up later in the show.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: An investigation is now underway after three people were found dead in the English city of Nottingham this morning. Police have called it 
 
 a serious incident. Two people were found dead near the city center and another body was found a few roads away.
 
Also witnesses say a van hit three other people, while man's been arrested on suspicion of murder and police say they are keeping an open mind as to 
 
 motive. Well, CNN's Nada Bashir joins us now from London. What more do we know at this point?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, we are still waiting for further updates from Nottinghamshire Police were just in the last few minutes at the 
 
 University of Nottingham has issued a statement confirming that two of their students were killed in the attack as part of this major incident 
 
 that was declared by Nottinghamshire police.
 
But of course, the investigation and around the suspect is still very much ongoing. Police say they are keeping an open mind the motive of this attack 
 
 is still unclear. They have arrested a 31 year old man who is currently being remanded in custody. But these were three separate attacks which the 
 
 police say they believe were connected.
 
We've heard from the police earlier this morning confirming they were called to a street in central Nottingham just after 4 a.m. where two 
 
 individuals were found dead in the streets, a third individual found dead in a nearby street and then of course, as you mentioned there a caravan 
 
 attempting to run three individuals over nearby in central Nottingham.
 
Now according to police, one of those involved in that attack is still in hospital in a critical condition further two victims were treated in 
 
 hospital for minor injuries. But this is an incident which has really left the city of Nottingham in a state of total shock. Take a listen to what one 
 
 eyewitness had to say earlier today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LYNN HUGGART, EYEWITNESS: You don't choose mirror so a police car behind him. He then quickened up those two people turning the corner, he went 
 
 straight in to the 30 people. The woman went on the curb. The man went up in the air. It's such a bang. I wish to also never saw it, it's really 
 
 shake mill.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR: Now as you can imagine the government is keeping a close eye on the situation in Nottingham. Prime Minister Rishi Sunak issued this statement 
 
 earlier today. So I want to thank the police and emergency services for their ongoing response to the shocking incident in Nottingham this morning. 
 
 I'm being kept updated on developments.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
The police must be given the time to undertake their work. My thoughts are with those injured and the family and loved ones of those who have lost 
 
 their lives. And there is still a police coordinate in place across those three key areas. Forensic police have also been deployed as part of this 
 
 investigation. And we are of course waiting for further updates from Nottinghamshire police with regard to the motive behind this attack, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Thank you. Still to come, former U.S. President Donald Trump is set to be arraigned in a Florida courtroom on federal criminal charges 
 
 later today. I'm going to get you live to Miami, plus blistering criticism from one of Trump's Republican competitors. What Chris Christie had to say 
 
 in a Town Hall with CNN last night?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. You're watching "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson. Time here just before half past seven in the UAE. Wherever you 
 
 are watching, you're more than welcome. Later today former U.S. President Donald Trump will step into a federal courtroom in Miami in Florida to 
 
 place a 37 charge indictment.
 
It alleges that Donald Trump mishandled classified documents after he left office and conspired to obstruct justice. He denies any wrongdoing and many 
 
 of his supporters accept his claim that he is the victim of unfair treatment.
 
Meanwhile, one of Trumps contenders for the Republican nomination for president and erstwhile friend of Donald Trump is lashing out at him. At a 
 
 CNN Town Hall on Monday, former Trump ally and ex-governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie slammed Trump's conduct in the mishandling of these 
 
 documents, calling it awful.
 
He also said Trump is angry, vengeful and completely self as consumed. With an ego, he said that as a run amok. CNN's Omar Jimenez is in New York with 
 
 more of what Christie said last night. And Eric differs from other Republican candidates. Let's be quite clear. This is not a man who is has a 
 
 reputation for setting on the fence, but he came out absolutely swinging last night Omar.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Becky. And that's really been the key difference between him and some of the other candidates that 
 
 are running. Christie has been much more direct in his criticisms of Trump and much more specific and even just saying his name.
 
Now, after news of the Trump indictment has come out some candidates have at least criticized the alleged behavior there from the former president, 
 
 but again none to the degree that we've seen from Christie. For example, when he talked about Republicans losing the House of Representatives, the 
 
 Senate and the White House under Trump, he could have just left it there.
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
But instead, he made clear that Trump was a three time loser. And that's not all he said either.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRIS CHRISTIE, U.S. REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I've known him for 22 years. The only thing he understands is force. The only thing he 
 
 understands is coming right at him and making your case.
 
JIMENEZ (voice over): Chris Christie didn't disappoint on his vow to take on Republican front runner Donald Trump. In a 90 minute CNN Town Hall, 
 
 Christie took aim at the former president for his alleged mishandling of classified documents.
 
CHRISTIE: It is a very tight, very detailed, evidence laden indictment and the conduct in theirs is awful. Whether you like Donald Trump or you don't 
 
 like Donald Trump. This contract is inexcusable, in my opinion, for somebody who wants to be president of the United States.
 
JIMENEZ (voice over): Christie not pulling any punches.
 
CHRISTIE: Did someone remind him, he's not the president anymore. You don't need these things anymore. This is vanity run amok, Anderson, run amok, ego 
 
 run amok, and he is now going to put this country through this when we didn't have to go through it.
 
JIMENEZ (voice over): The former New Jersey governor slamming many of his other GOP rivals for not criticizing Trump.
 
CHRISTIE: They're playing political games with you. Because they think you kind of like Trump a little bit. And I don't say anything bad about Trump. 
 
 And then Trump kind of implodes and goes away, then you're more likely to vote for me.
 
JIMENEZ (voice over): Christie urging Republicans to think twice about the country. Christie issued this warning to voters.
 
CHRISTIE: I am convinced that if he goes back to the White House, that the next four years will all be about him just settling scores. And he has 
 
 shown himself and I think most of us, particularly in his post presidency, to be completely self-centered, completely self-consumed, and doesn't give 
 
 a damn about the American people in my view.
 
JIMENEZ (voice over): On policy, Christie took on the question over access to abortion.
 
CHRISTIE: Leave it to the States. Let's leave it to the States. And if a consensus emerges, we'll know it and if the federal government feels they 
 
 need to step in, and then I'd certainly consider that.
 
JIMENEZ (voice over): He also leveled plenty of criticism against President Biden.
 
CHRISTIE: The reason we're struggling to make ends meet is because government spending under Joe Biden has gone completely out of control.
 
JIMENEZ (voice over): And then took a dig at both Biden and Trump for their age.
 
CHRISTIE: If those two people are the nominees, they are going to be a combined 160 years old on Election Day. I'm sorry, guys. Nobody beats 
 
 Father Time. Nobody does.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIMENEZ: Now up to this point, Chris Christie has not been at the top of GOP polling. So the question is, while his message may be resonating with 
 
 some Republicans and even some Independents, who will it, be enough to sway GOP primary voters, which is, of course, the first major hurdle here.
 
But bottom line, his campaign told me that Chris Christie we saw in this Town Hall is the centerpiece of this campaign, and it's what we should 
 
 expect more of moving forward, especially as of course, Trump's legal troubles take a major step forward today.
 
ANDERSON: Omar, thank you, Omar Jimenez on the story. Well, meantime, Donald Trump fighting charges as he fights for his political life and a 
 
 second term. I want to bring in CNN Legal Affairs Correspondent, Paula Reid, who is today in Miami and all eyes on that state.
 
Of course, we expect the arraignment of Donald Trump just a couple of hours from now. Just set up this case for us, if you will. We've talked about 
 
 what we expect to happen in court today. But through your sort of legal lens, what should we expect?
 
PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: What's interesting is down here at court, there are now dozens of protesters some in favor of the 
 
 former president, some opposing. We have people dressed up as Uncle Sam. We have people impersonating Trump, selling Trump merchandise. There are 
 
 animals walking through the crowd. It is increasingly a carnival like atmosphere on a day that is actually quite serious and quite similar.
 
This is the first time that a leader, former leader of the free world will be arraigned on federal criminal charges. Just a few hours Trump will 
 
 arrive here by car, he will come into a garage below this building. So we will not likely see him and he will have the charges that have been filed 
 
 against him red.
 
These are very serious charges. This has to do with national security. Special Counsel Jack Smith described this as potentially a matter of life 
 
 and death, something that could potentially put lives at risk, the alleged mishandling of classified documents. He is expected to plead not guilty. We 
 
 know he's still looking for a legal team.
 
This is certainly the case of a lifetime for any attorneys who are willing to join the team. But at this point he has not fully decided on his final 
 
 defense team. Today's case will be before a magistrate judge, but going forward it will be before a Trump appointed federal judge who will oversee 
 
 the rest of the trial.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
So again, this is an incredibly significant day in this country and an incredibly significant case.
 
ANDERSON: Paula, it's a pleasure having you on, thank you. CNN's Shimon Prokupecz is outside that courthouse in a different position. Paula there 
 
 is talking about the crowd of supporters. Shimon, amongst a crowd of both Trump supporters and detractors, that crowd, well, it's growing by the 
 
 minute, as is the police presence in the area.
 
Moments ago, Shimon witnessed the tight security around the area and was in conversation at the time with my colleague, Wolf Blitzer. Have a look at 
 
 this.
 
SHIMON PROKUPECZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME &amp; JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: We were all gathered over there for a little while. And then all of a sudden, the 
 
 police came in and said everyone had to clear the area, there was media gathered over there, as well. And so what they're doing, we're told is that 
 
 they are doing a sweep something caught the eye of law enforcement, something suspicious.
 
And so now they are doing this sweep, as you can imagine, well, everyone here is on high alert. And generally, in this area, they've been allowing 
 
 the Trump supporters and protesters and the media all to gather here or they've not separated any of the crowds. We've not seen any barricades.
 
We've seen officers out here, but this is the first time that we're seeing any kind of pushback from them. They're concerned that there's something 
 
 that they have discovered there, that they are investigating. This is the area where the media has begun, Wolf, but also many of the Trump 
 
 supporters.
 
I want to show you some of them who are gathered out here on the street now because the police have closed the street as they investigate what's going 
 
 on here. And so some of them are now gathered here. I think on the other side as you could see Wolf that is where the media has gathered.
 
As this is general -- come, the scene out here, right now, I think what we have a drone shot over the courthouse where you could see some of the 
 
 security police instead of placing barriers, those metal barriers that we've been talking about. They have decided to use vehicles, their cars as 
 
 a way to harden the perimeter of the courthouse. It's probably --
 
ANDERSON: It's Shimon Prokupecz speaking to my colleague, Wolf Blitzer earlier. Well, you're watching "Connect the World". I'm Becky Anderson. The 
 
 time here in Abu Dhabi is 37 minutes past seven.
 
Up next, I want to get you an insightful interview about this region, the climate crisis and conflict. The UAE's Ambassador to the UN tells me about 
 
 some big plans to tackle some major challenges that is coming up after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, it's all about cooperation, and that played a big partner meeting between the UAE's Climate Change Minister and Ukrainian President 
 
 Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Mariam Almheiri was in Kyiv on Monday tweeting, and I'm paraphrasing.
 
She says they discuss ways of strengthening the cooperation between the two countries as well as the humanitarian situation in the wake of the Ukraine 
 
 crisis and its fallout, especially on kids. And that was in line with UAE's efforts to alleviate the suffering of affected Ukrainians.
 
Well, Almheiri is now in New York to chair a UN Security Council meeting on the critical issue of climate change, peace and security. The UAE holds the 
 
 revolving presidency of the UNSC this month, and of course, it's hosting the annual UN climate conference COP28 later this year in Dubai.
 
Well, earlier I spoke to the UAE's Ambassador to the United Nations Lana Nusseibeh, started by asking why she believes this briefing in this setting 
 
 the UNSC is so important right now.
 
LANA NUSSEIBEH, UAE AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.: The UAE has always said that climate is the defining challenge of our time. It is an existential 
 
 challenge to so many countries around the world, including the Middle East, where scarce water resources and food resources and rising temperatures 
 
 mean that we are at the forefront of this fight against climate change.
 
We're at the forefront of renewable, the renewable energy revolution that needs to happen. But at the same time, we're also global responsible energy 
 
 players.
 
ANDERSON: Ambassador, the UAE will host the next round of climate talks at the end of the year in Bonn. Last week, the President designate of COP28, 
 
 Dr. Sultan Al Jaber warned, and I quote him here that, "The world is way off track in its efforts to limit global warming". And that, quote, 
 
 "Transformational progress is needed this decade to bring about that meaningful change".
 
He also said importantly, that the phase down of fossil fuels is inevitable. Is this a message to those who continue to argue that Dr. 
 
 Sultan is conflicted in his role with COP28 given he is also the head of the national oil company?
 
NUSSEIBEH: Not going to be easy, but we need to channel all of our energy towards that outcome today, Becky, because the question is too big for the 
 
 future of our planet for us to get distracted by arguments. Let's channel that energy into getting the outcome we want. Dr. Sultan has been on a 
 
 great listening tour.
 
I was with him in Brussels last week; we met with the senior leadership of the EU President Ursula von der Leyen, President Shawn Michelle, Joseph 
 
 Burrell. The message was clear the joint communique out of Brussels is clear. People have high expectations of the UAE being able to play this 
 
 bridge building role between the global north and the global south.
 
The world is facing a global food crisis that the UAE is at the forefront of trying to help alleviate. The Sultan is saying what our president 
 
 himself Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan has said many times, the UAE will celebrate when the last barrel of oil is drawn out of our territory, 
 
 because that will mean we are looking at the future of a global economy that is dependent on a clean energy mix.
 
But phase up means phase up Becky, and we've got to do the two simultaneously. And that's what we're trying to corral energy around a 
 
 COP28. In addition to the really important piece, which is adaptation, finance for the countries that also need to develop.
 
It's not fair to put the burden on them when other countries have already industrialized. And this is the big injustice to the climate debated. How 
 
 do we get other countries on board and explain to them that, you know, the 100 billion will be met. The finance for loss and damage will be met, that 
 
 financing for adaptation and mitigation will be available and affordable and accessible.
 
These are the messages that our COP28 presidency team across the board are relaying as we meet with world leaders on this issue. And this is what 
 
 we're going to be saying here in New York at the Security Council where we brought this topic to the agenda today.
 
ANDERSON: The nexus of climate and conflict could not be starker than in Sudan after multiple ceasefires have been made and broken. The UNSC has 
 
 been criticized by many for its inaction and it's being urged to become more involved in these talks. Ambassador, what can we expect from the UN 
 
 Security Council with regard a position on Sudan? What is it prepared to do at this point?
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
NUSSEIBEH: Very crucially, we renewed as a council along with the penholder, the United Kingdom. We renewed the UN operational Mission in 
 
 Sudan on the ground unit times that is providing essential coordination for all the humanitarian aid agencies that are helping the millions of people 
 
 that need that aid on the ground today in Sudan.
 
So the Security Council has really coalesced under the UAE presidency around this issue. We've had both closed door and open discussions on 
 
 Sudan. We had a closed door briefing with the Secretary General where he really clearly laid out to us the stark challenges not only for Sudan, but 
 
 the destabilizing effect on already fragile situations in neighboring countries, from Chad to Libya to elsewhere.
 
There is no military solution to this conflict. We've been saying that from the outset. And we're doing all we can both in the region but also here in 
 
 New York in the Security Council, to try and keep a consensus in the council around that and to keep focused on the will of the Sudanese people 
 
 and their right to peace and stability to live the way we all do normally.
 
ANDERSON: The Sudanese government is indicated the Volker Perthes, who is the UN special envoy to Sudan, is persona non grata. The UN have said 
 
 that's not how it works. And that's certainly the position of the UN Secretary General. Can he really be effective on the ground at this point?
 
NUSSEIBEH: I think we shouldn't personalize UN operations. So this is the choice of which the SRSG is always the choice of the Secretary General. And 
 
 it remains the choice of a Secretary General. The UN Security Council has expressed itself that it fully backs the work of the Secretary General and 
 
 his leadership in Sudan and in managing the UN system there.
 
ANDERSON: De-escalation of conflict, wherever it might be, is a real focus for the UAE, at present. And human fraternity and its role in peace and 
 
 security is a major focus area, you've got a significant high level signature event this week. Just explain what that is about, and how you 
 
 believe it could be significant in promoting peace and security going forward?
 
NUSSEIBEH: We are highlighting the issues such as hate speech, racism, xenophobia, Islamophobia, Christianophobia, anti-Semitism, extremism, are 
 
 root causes in many contexts around the world, and drivers of conflict.
 
And that's what we're trying to address in a cross cutting and holistic way in the Council for the first time tomorrow through this debate, that we 
 
 cannot ignore these manifestations of extremism in our societies. We have to address them in the peace continuum, through a positive response from 
 
 governments, through education, through the empowerment of women and youth in society, through dialogue through coexistence.
 
ANDERSON: The UN is fresh out of ideas on Afghanistan, and you led an effort to get a resolution through on an independent assessment of how the 
 
 international strategy might be affected going forward. What do you want to see on Afghanistan, personally, at this point?
 
NUSSEIBEH: Well, I think it's a perfect segue from the subject of extremist ideology to talking about women in Afghanistan and around the world. But 
 
 extremist views and fanatical views of women will only lead to their exclusion from society, and therefore unstable societies.
 
That is the core message of the UAE around the world and our foreign policy. And we've issued a really important resolution unanimously from 
 
 this council that condemned the edicts that exclude women from work and education. There is a clear consensus that the situation in Afghanistan is 
 
 a priority. But the women and girls must be must be a part of a stable future in Afghanistan.
 
ANDERSON: You should be absolutely applauded on the work that's been done on Afghanistan, because this was a rare show of unity. In an organization, 
 
 which, frankly, at present does feel rather polarized and to get that consensus is really difficult. What are your reflections on how this 
 
 multilateral system aims to achieve its purpose on peace, security and cooperation around the globe? And, frankly, is it fit for purpose at this 
 
 point?
 
NUSSEIBEH: When you ask me my reflections, I think it's been an incredible privilege and an honor and a humbling responsibility to be a member of the 
 
 Security Council. Because there's so much that is so important on the Security Council agenda to so many people around the world where they look 
 
 at the conflict in their country, or they look at the humanitarian famine in their country, or what is happening and say, what is the UN going to do? 
 
 What is the Security Council going to do?
 
We do our level best if we use our contacts, if we use our bridge building relationships with many countries to try and help ultimately people on the 
 
 ground, that I feel as the UAE we will have fulfilled our mission here at the Security Council. That's the best I can hope for.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
ANDERSON: That's Lana Nusseibeh speaking to me just a little earlier today from New York. Well, coming up the music group with the most followers on 
 
 TikTok, Instagram and Twitter celebrates its 10th year anniversary. We take you to Seoul where the week long festivities and celebrations are kicking 
 
 off with a purple glow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well from green hair to purple to red to brown, they are most. One of the most successful boy groups in music history iconic South Korean 
 
 pop group BTS celebrate their 10th anniversary this week. I know the guys are on a temporary break right now nothing could stop their fan base from 
 
 kicking off celebrations in the capital of Seoul on Monday.
 
The landmark Nam Santana was lit up in purple, the band's signature color meanwhile; global fans have descended on the city from all over the world 
 
 to share in the celebrations. Paula Hancocks has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): This is the first the world saw of BTS, no more dream released 10 years ago this week. Alongside the 
 
 backstage footage of seven young men who could sing and dance, but few could have imagined the global stardom that would follow, for being the 
 
 first k-pop group to debut at number one on the Billboard album chart.
 
They're securing the most weeks at the top spot of any artist eating out Taylor Swift with 46 weeks at number one. International fans have been 
 
 arriving in Seoul over recent weeks for 10th anniversary BTS tours, visiting anywhere the band has made famous.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're waiting for this moment for years and now it's finally happening.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): A group of fans from the United States are flying in from different states for their pilgrimage, a trip seven months in the 
 
 planning.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We want to just you know eat the food that they've eaten. They must have really good taste and just be in places where they've 
 
 been, you know music video shooting, just to breathe the same air that they breathe.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Top of the tallest a bus stop on the east coast where the band shot its album cover, "You'll Never Walk Alone, irregular 
 
 stop for fans, who refer to themselves as the army, as well as the band's old home that's turned into a cafe and this building where the band's 
 
 agency used to be.
 
We caught up with two fans in Seoul who traveled all the way from Scotland, undergraduate students who consider this to be the first of many BTS 
 
 related trips to South Korea.
 
ROWAN JOSS, BTS FAN FROM SCOTLAND: It is emotional. You're happy, but it's very like, oh my God, like this is real.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): They attribute the band's longevity to the serious messages they portray in their lyrics, topics they can relate to.
 
JOSS: Their mental health talk is like is unique to them. Honestly, I know new bands are trying to do that, but BTS have done it in a way that they 
 
 haven't before.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Was two of the seven members currently serving mandatory military service here in South Korea and the remainder to follow 
 
 soon. The group's record label big hit reportedly says they could reconvene by 2025. Every member has also had success with a solo career so far.
 
BANG SI-HYUK, CHAIRMAN, HYBE: We've been prepared to turn this into a turning point in their career. It's obviously true that they needed this 
 
 time of rest after such an intense period of hard work.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): BTS is marking its 10 years with a new single a new book and a festival by the river. Some fans are celebrating with a 
 
 pilgrimage of anything that idols visited or touched or even ate. Paula Hancocks, CNN Seoul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: And a reminder that our special coverage of the arrest and arraignment of Donald Trump begins just a few hours from now. We'll be 
 
 reporting from the eastern seaboard, Washington to Florida to keep you informed throughout what is a very pivotal moment in U.S. politics.
 
Do tune in for that, until then, thank you for joining us. From the team working with me here and those working with us around the world that was 
 
 "Connect the World". Have a very good evening.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
END