Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Sources: Hostage Release Timing Delayed In Part By Dispute Over Slowness Of Aid Trucks Entering Gaza; United States Official: Americans Not Expected To Be Part Of Today's Release; Family Members Of Released Hostages React To Return Of Loved Ones; Hamas Says It Is Delaying Release Of Hostages In Dispute Over Aid Delivery And Palestinian Prisoners. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired November 25, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:45]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Hello, everyone, thank you so much for joining us. I'm Fredricka Whitfield in Atlanta alongside my colleague Wolf Blitzer in Tel Aviv. Wolf, we'll get to you in a moment.
 
We have this breaking news right now. We're standing by for the release of a second group of hostages held by Hamas. Sources tell CNN that release is being delayed, in part over a dispute about the number of aid trucks entering Gaza.
 
These are live pictures right now from the Rafah border crossing in Gaza where the hostages could be transported at any moment. We're also told today's group is likely to include 13 Israeli citizens, several of which are expected to be children, adding to the 24 hostages released yesterday.
 
And this exchange comes a full seven weeks after the hostages were abducted from their homes. A U.S. official says American citizens are not expected to be among those released today.
 
39 Palestinian prisoners are set to be released as well today, following the release of the Israeli hostages from Gaza. These exchanges are part of a four-day truce set to expire on Tuesday.
 
Wolf in Tel Aviv.
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST: Thank you very much, Fred.
 
We have team coverage here in the Middle East, tracking all the latest developments on the ground. Let's go first to CNN's Jeremy Diamond. He is over at the Kerem Shalom border crossing into Israel.
 
Jeremy, give us an update on today's expected release.
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Wolf, by this time yesterday, those hostages had not only already been handed over to the Red Cross inside Gaza, but they had also gone into Egypt via that Rafah crossing, and they were making their way to the Kerem Shalom crossing, which is right behind me here.
 
The light that you see, in the distance there is the turn or -- the turn where the convoy yesterday of ambulances carrying those hostages, drove down this road, turning at that point, and driving down this road on their way to the Hatzerim Airbase. As of now, though, Wolf, that has not happened.
 
The -- our understanding is that there has been a delay -- a delay, at least of a few hours clearly, of this deal going through, because, in part, of the movement of aid vehicles into Gaza. With Hamas, claiming that Israel has not provided the number of aid vehicles that should be going into Gaza as part of this overall deal, because it's important to remember that beyond the release of civilian hostages, 50 over the next four days, and the Palestinian prisoners, three Palestinian prisoners for every one Israeli civilian hostage, there is also this aid component to the deal.
 
And it appears that there has been a delay in those vehicles getting across into Gaza, and that may be part of the delay of these hostages, finally, being able to -- able to cross back into Israel.
 
That is why Israeli officials have really been taking this process, day by day. They recognize early on that there were going to be speed bumps in this process. That there were going to be potential delays and issues that would arise.
 
Even as late as this morning, our understanding is that there were still discussions mediated by the Qatari government between Israel and Hamas over the exact number, whether it would be 13 or 14 hostages to be handed over today. And so, this is a very delicate situation.
 
And even though yesterday went relatively smoothly, and offers some hope, some opportunity for additional releases of hostages going forward, clearly, this is still a very tenuous situation.
 
But Wolf, clearly the Israeli military has been preparing for these hostages to arrive at this Kerem Shalom crossing. They have closed down this road to regular traffic. We have Israeli military vehicles right next to our position.
 
So, all the preparations are in place to receive these hostages. The question now is when will that happen? Wolf?
 
BLITZER: We shall find out fairly soon, I suspect. All right. Jeremy Diamond at the Kerem Shalom border crossing. We'll get back to you.
 
I want to go to CNN's Nada Bashir right now. She is over in the West Bank. So, what are you seeing where you are, Nada?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER: Well, look, Wolf. We are seeing a bit of confusion actually in over in the West Bank. We're in near the Al-Bireh municipality, which is near Ramallah.
 <br>[12:05:03]
 
Some families have now gathered here, hoping that this will be the location in which those 39 Palestinian detainees and prisoners will be released too.
 
Now, as you heard from Jeremy, this is a very fluid situation. And yesterday, on Friday, things seem to be moving a lot more smoothly. We had a list released earlier in the day, telling us the names and the details of the 39 prisoners and detainees set to be released.
 
Today, we have not had that list. We haven't had confirmation exactly who is set to be released. Earlier in the day we were nearby the Ofer Prison, where we did see three buses coming in carrying some of those detainees and prisoners. Is at this prison location where they are set to be held, until there is final confirmation that all of the agreed upon hostages are released from Hamas captivity in Gaza.
 
They will then undergo Red Cross trucks and should be then carried via a Red Cross convoy into -- via the Beituniya crossing, and into their hometowns and villages where they will be released.
 
Now, this stage. We've been speaking to many families who've said they haven't had confirmation yet whether or not their loved ones are on today's list.
 
We've been speaking to many families here who have come, hopeful that they may see their loved ones released. But still unsure whether or not that will be the case. We don't have details just yet over those names.
 
Yesterday, we did see 25 women and 15 children released. The majority of those released yesterday were under administrative detention. Meaning, no charges were laid against them. No ongoing legal process.
 
And, of course, as we saw earlier in the week, that initial list of 300 detainees and prisoners who would be eligible to be considered for the 150 set to be released over the course of this truce.
 
Again, the majority of them, children, many of them teenagers between the ages of 16 and 18, some as young as 14, many of them charged with offenses, such as throwing stones at Israeli soldiers or fighting and risking regional security, according to that list.
 
Again, unclear who is set to be released today. We did see yesterday, thousands gathering around the Beituniya municipality where some of those detainees and prisoners were released to families, locals, all celebrating that release.
 
But, of course, today, the feeling is a lot more somber. It has been a bit more muted, and there has been some confusion around what exactly is happening, where exactly these detainees and prisoners are going. We have tried to speak to Israeli authorities who have said that a final decision has not yet been made.
 
We have, in fact, over the course of this evening seen some clashes as well. Just in the last hour, we were at the Beituniya crossing, at a hill overlooking that crossing point, where again, a number of locals have gathered to witness that release point.
 
But what we have seen this evening as we did see yesterday were three individuals being shot and injured by live fire. And now, we saw that ourselves. This has been again reported by the Palestinian Red Crescent Society, all three of them, teenagers, again, have seen tear gas used to -- 
 
BLITZER: I think we've just lost our connection with Nada Bashir, but we will, of course get back to her. Nada, thank you very much.
 
I want to get to CNN's Clarissa Ward. She is over at Sheba hospital right here in Tel Aviv. Clarissa, what are you seeing there right now? I assume they're preparing to receive some of the Israeli hostages.
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Wolf.
 
So, this is a different hospital that we are at now tonight. Yesterday, the focus had been on the Schneider Children's Medical Center. Today, it's -- there is three different hospitals. But the one that we're at is the Sheba Hospital, it's the largest hospital in Israel.
 
And we are here in the sort of children's ward or the children's wing, if you will. And you can probably see if we pan off slightly here, a lot of preparations are now underway for potential arrivals later tonight. There is quite a few security personnel around, and you can see over the entrance there that they've put up a kind of makeshift screen, if you will.
 
The assumption that we have at this stages that the ambulance would come through here, and the -- would be sort of freed hostages would then pass through into the building behind that screen for added privacy. And you probably remember last night, Wolf, we saw as well, when we were looking at the helipads that they put up a screen.
 
Obviously, this is a very sensitive moment. You're dealing with minors, and just like the Schneider Medical Center, one definitely has the sense here at Sheba that they are doing everything that they can to prepare for these arrivals. They are also trying to manage an understandably large interest from the press in this, keep people corralled into one area.
 
We were at the Schneider Medical Center just an hour or so ago for a few hours.
 <br>[12:10:03]
 
And the reports there from medical staff were very positive about the progress of the arrivals yesterday. They said they are in good physical condition.
 
Of course, Wolf, we saw those very moving videos and images shared of families being reunited, hugging, tearful reunions. And we spoke to the representative working with hostage families, who said that they are hopeful that either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, that they would be able to be released and be able to go back home, because they are in good physical condition. Of course, the psychological scars are much more complex and potentially, obviously will take a much longer time to assess, and to deal with, Wolf.
 
But tonight, the focus here now on Sheba hospital, as we await or as they hope that they will soon be greeting or in the coming hours greeting another batch of children hostages, potentially with some family members too, Wolf.
 
BLITZER: Clarissa Ward over at Sheba hospital. Let's hope well, that happens and happens soon. We'll check in with you often for sure. Thank you very much.
 
I want to go to CNN's Oren Liebermann. He's also with all of us here in Tel Aviv.
 
Oren, you're in what's become known as hostages square. What's the mood there right now as we await the second group of Israeli hostages that we hope are about to be released.
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, there is a tremendous amount of anticipation here for news -- any news, frankly, of the release of the second group of hostages. They are very much in tune to what's going on. They have heard there has been a delay, that, of course, has upset many of those here. They want to see this process moving forward. They want to see that second batch coming out, even as they celebrate the release of the first batch.
 
You can see here, this is a major event they have scheduled here, calling it essentially 50 for 50.
 
50,000 people they're trying to bring back and bring here to mark 50 days in captivity for the hostages. They've had this clock going pretty much since then ticking down the hours, 49 days, 12 hours, 13 minutes, and the seconds ticking down until the 50-day mark.
 
Many of those who have arrived here have held up signs, I think as you just saw in the shot there, and taking pictures of the clock as it goes. There are 1000s here to mark this event.
 
We've had a chance to speak to the families of some of the hostages here, including 10-month-old Kfir Bibas, the youngest hostage in Hamas captivity. He actually turned 10-months-old in captivity. When he went in, he was nine months.
 
And his cousin said, look, it's been incredibly difficult as we wait for any sorts of news. We don't even know the first 50 to come out. Hamas simply releases the names in each batch day by day, and that makes it even more difficult.
 
They had been hopeful that because Kfir Bibas is so young, he would be one of the first to come out. And that simply has not at least as of right now been the case. So, simply becomes a matter of hoping for another day and hoping for another day that the list includes their family members. Still, here in this square, all of the families of the hostages have come together and formed their own family, a new family as they call it. And that's a lot of what this is about.
 
Strengthening those families and making sure the pressure remains on the government to do everything it can to bring everybody home. One of the difficult aspects of this is that so far, it's women and children.
 
So, those who have men who are in captivity, have to keep waiting for some sort of news and hoping that the initial deal for four days is extended, can be expanded to include their loved ones. They demand here that everyone will be brought home without exception. Wolf.
 
BLITZER: Let's hope that happens. All right. Oren Liebermann, thank you very much.
 
I want to thank Clarissa Ward, Nada Bashir, Jeremy Diamond as well for their reports.
 
A second group of hostages is set to be released by Hamas today. Several of them are expected to be children, including very young children, but no Americans are expected to be released today.
 
We're going to get reaction from the White House and a lot more of all the breaking developments when we come back. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:18:20]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Welcome back. No American citizens are expected to be part of the second wave of hostages released today, according to a U.S. official. But the White House says it's still hopeful that three Americans will be freed in the coming days.
 
CNN Arlette Saenz is Nantucket where President Biden is spending the Thanksgiving weekend. So, Arlette, what else are you hearing from the White House about this?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fred, The White House says they are continuing to work on getting those American hostages out. But as of today, those three Americans are not expected to be part of this next wave of hostages that are expected to be released in the coming hours.
 
Now, White House officials are hopeful that there will be three Americans who are released as a part of this larger deal to release, at least, 50 women and children. Those three Americans include two women, and also that young girl, four-year-old Abigail Idan, whose parents were killed by Hamas in the October 7th attack.
 
And the White House has said that they are working around the clock, trying to get all these hostage's home. But President Biden has refrained on putting the exact date or time that he believes that these hostages will get out, simply saying that he believes it'll happen in the coming days. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We don't know when that will occur, but we're going to be expect it to occur. And we don't know what the list of all the hostages are and when they'll be released, but we know the numbers that were going to be released. So, it is my hope and expectation it will be soon.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And of the 10 Americans that are unaccounted for, do you know all of their conditions? Are they all alive?
 
BIDEN: We don't know all their conditions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAENZ: Now, I'm told President Biden was briefed at least twice this morning by his National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, as rest of others and members of the national security team.
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
The White House has been watching this anticipated release of a second wave of hostages very closely. There is been a lot of focus on keeping tabs on the implementation of this plan.
 
President Biden said, he, himself, wants to assure he is in touch with counterparts in the region to make sure that this deal gets on track. But as of today, it's not expected that any Americans are -- is set to be released and reunited with their families, at least not today.
 
WHITFIELD: And Arlette, the president also said yesterday that the pause could extend beyond the original four days. What more do we know about this?
 
SAENZ: Yes, that's something that U.S. and Israeli officials are have hinted at over the course of the past few days as this negotiation was coming together. President Biden, yesterday, told reporters that he thinks that there's a real chance that this four-day truce, this four- day pause could potentially get extended in order to get more than 50 women and children released from Hamas.
 
Now, the president, for some time has been pushing for these longer pauses to get humanitarian aid in, and the hostages out. Right now, it's unclear whether there are any real discussions underway about extending the pause. But the president did open the door to that being a possibility in the coming days.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Arlette Saenz in Nantucket, traveling with the president. Thank you so much.
 
All right. Our special coverage of the events in Israel and Gaza continues right after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:25:31]
 
BLITZER: Welcome back to CNN's special coverage of today's developments in Israel and Gaza. We continue to wait for the release of 13 Israeli hostages in exchange for 39 Palestinian prisoners.
 
I'm joined now by Gershon Baskin. He's a former hostage negotiator and peace activist here in Israel. He's also the Middle East director of the international community's organization.
 
Gershon, thanks so much for joining us. First of all, what's your reaction -- what's your understanding, should I say, of the reason for today's delay in releasing the second group of Israeli hostages?
 
GERSHON BASKIN, FORMER HOSTAGE NEGOTIATOR: Hamas is claiming Israeli violations to the agreement. Not entirely sure what it is, because they are claiming that humanitarian aid didn't get to the north of the -- of the Gaza Strip. Israel is claiming that 50 trucks did make it to the north today, there might be a technical problem of not having the logistics to unload the trucks or to receive the fuel that was supposed to be sent. It's not 100 percent clear.
 
What is clear, is that Israel is helpless to do anything about it. The Qatari and Egyptian mediators are trying to work out the problem. The families who were notified that their loved ones would be coming back tonight are being tortured by this unending wait for their loved ones to get home. It's a tragic situation.
 
BLITZER: It certainly is. What do you learn in Gershon, about what has taken place behind the scenes in all these very, very delicate negotiations to make these exchanges even possible?
 
BASKIN: I understood that following the success of last night's exchange, with a few delays, that the Qataris had come to Israel and to Gaza to try and talk to the sides about extending it beyond the four days and enabling more hostages to come home.
 
But now, apparently, they are trying to figure out what went wrong with today's (INAUDIBLE) and trying to fix it. It's very difficult because we all know there is zero trust between the two parties. There is no direct communication between them. And the communication with the Hamas leadership in Gaza is problematic, because they're under the ground and they're not using digital communication.
 
So, it all has to be done by passing messages to people, can deliver the messages underground to the Hamas command centers, it's a very cumbersome and time -- it takes a lot of time to get done.
 
And there is a misunderstanding here clearly, unless this is simply, Yahya Sinwar of torturing the Israeli public even more.
 
BLITZER: It is a form of torture to be sure. These Israelis and I've been speaking to them all day today. They are so, so nervous, and they're -- so many of them are waiting to just grab hold of their loved ones and give them a big hug.
 
When this hostage for prisoner exchange ends in just a few days, Gershon, Hamas will still hold, and correct me if I'm wrong, about 200 hostages in Gaza. Do you think there could be more deals down the road in the near future to help bring those folks back to Israel? BASKIN: Yes, as I understand it from talking to people in Hamas, in -- they are interested in releasing all the civilian hostages. They only want to hold on to the army, the soldiers, the women and men soldiers in order to negotiate them for the release of 7,200 Palestinian prisoners, something which is unimaginable.
 
Keeping the civilian hostages is a burden to them in a logistical nightmare.
 
And they don't need them to force Israel into a deal that Israel definitely doesn't want to make.
 
BLITZER: So far, Hamas is only releasing women, especially elderly women and little children and not releasing men. At least not yet. Let's hope that changes as well. What would you say Gershon to the many Israeli families who are still waiting to hear about their loved ones, who are still stuck as hostages in Gaza.
 
BASKIN: Well, all the hostage families I've spoken to since day one of the war, I've tried to be very realistic with them, and to tell them to expect almost the worst and hope for the best. We knew this was going to take a long time. I know that I, personally put up the idea of a hostage exchange of all the women children, wounded, elderly, and sick prisoners -- hostages, excuse me, in exchange for the women and teenage prisoners in Israel.
 
I found the numbers, I found out where they were from -- the prisoners, and what they had done. And I thought this was a deal that could be done quite early.
 <br>[12:30:03]
 
I spoke to members of the Israeli government and found support for the idea, and still it's taken -- we're in the seventh week of the war now. This should have been done in the second week of the war.
 
But this just takes time before the parties ready to do it. There were Israeli delays. Now there's a Hamas delay. It's -- it has to be done. Israel has to get these hostages out as soon as possible. The war effort will continue sometime soon. And we need to get those civilian hostages out at least before that happens.
 
BLITZER: In meantime that that temporary pause in the fighting continues, which is significant, to be sure, as well. What do you think, Gershon, what do you think drove the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to this initial deal to begin with?
 
BASKIN: I think that the army and the security folks told him that we can have a pause in the war without ending the war effort, that it's more important to get the hostages home. I think there was a lot of public pressure from the families and wider society, who understand that Israel has a moral responsibility to bring them home because Israel failed to protect them.
 
Well, this is the first responsibility of any countries to protect their civilians, their citizens. And Israel on October 7th failed to do that. And these people were taken from their homes. And Israel has a responsibility to bring them back. And I think that's weighing heavily on the members of the Israeli government. Certainly the new members of the Cabinet from a party, they pushed Netanyahu and other people in the liquid (ph) to agree to this deal.
 
I don't think they had a choice. There would be no -- in the mind if Netanyahu decided to sacrifice the hostages in order to succeed in the overall war effort of dismantling Hamas's ability to govern. The first thing that needs to be done is to get the hostages home.
 
BLITZER: Let's hope that happens and happens soon. Gershon Baskin, thank you so much for joining us. We really appreciate it.
 
BASKIN: Thank you.
 
BLITZER: Among the 13 Israeli hostages released yesterday, was 85- year-old, Yaffa Adar. Adar is a founder of the Nir Oz kibbutz and is among the oldest people to be taken hostage by Hamas back on October 7th. A video of her being taken into Gaza on a golf cart driven by Hamas terrorists went viral shortly after her abduction.
 
The grandmother's calm, brave and very dignified reaction to being kidnapped by these terrorists served as an inspiration to so many Israelis. Earlier today, I had a chance to speak with her overjoyed granddaughter, Adva Adar about her grandmother's return home, watch this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLITZER: So you're here because your grandmother is finally back, right?
 
ADVA ADAR, GRANDDAUGHTER OF FREED ISRAELI HOSTAGE: Finally, yes.
 
BLITZER: Tell us how you feel.
 
ADAR: Wow. Really, it's overwhelming. But we're very excited. And we're very grateful that we got the chance to see her. And we're also, you know, it's mixed feelings because we're also very concerned and worried about the other 211 people that are still being held hostage, including my cousin, Tamir.
 
BLITZER: What was it like giving your grandma a hug?
 
ADAR: It's like a dream coming true. I was thinking about this moment for the past 50 days, just you know about this single moment of me looking at her in her eyes saying she's okay, letting her know that we are okay that we are with her. It was like my dream. And my mission those days to do whatever we can to bring her back home. So finally be able to see that, it happened. It was everything for me.
 
BLITZER: Was it a big surprise? Or were you expecting this?
 
ADAR: It was a big surprise. You know, always the Hamas, they are terror organization. It's not like you can understand their actions. And it's not some, like a country that you can discuss or explain the needs of the elders and the eel to be out. So we couldn't know what will happen. And just the day before, we got a notice that she was probably coming. But until she was here in Israel with the IDF we weren't sure that it will really happen.
 
BLITZER: What were the first words you said to her? And what were her first words to you?
 
ADAR: I was crying, no words, just crying. And I'm a pastry chef. So she asked me if I make the cake, if I gave her -- if I brought a cake.
 <br>[12:35:02]
 
BLITZER: Did you?
 
ADAR: No.
 
BLITZER: You better. You better.
 
ADAR: I have to. I will.
 
BLITZER: You better bring her a cake.
 
ADAR: I will. Like as many cakes as she will ever want.
 
BLITZER: Yeah.
 
ADAR: But, yes.
 
BLITZER: But there's still other members of your family who are being held hostage. So tell us about that.
 
ADAR: My cousin, Tamir, he's 38 years old. He's a father of two young, amazing children that are waiting so much for their father to return. And it was from the. He was in the kibbutz that morning, and he left his kids in the shelter, and went to try to protect the community. And he was taken from the kibbutz. We don't know anything about his condition. So of course, we are very worried. We don't know if he's injured, if what -- how he's being held.
 
And, you know, with him, there's still 210 people, children, like the youngest is 10 month, and the oldest is almost 85. So there's a lot of people in between. And we need to fight for each and every one of them. And for us, for my family. It's not over until all of them will be back. We're just hoping that we can close this chapter of our lives by bringing them and everyone back home and, you know, make sure we can build in this country as safe and quiet place to raise our children.
 
BLITZER: When you and I spoke a few weeks ago, did you ever think we'd be meeting again like this at this time?
 
ADAR: To tell you the truth? No. Even if you would talk to me three days ago, I wouldn't believe that it's going to be the reality right now. We weren't. We try to stay optimistic. But it's a roller coaster. I mean, one day you feel that for sure it will happen and the other day, you feel that it's going to be the end of the story. So I was shocked until I saw her in my eyes. I couldn't believe it because if you wouldn't be here, then it would break my heart, so.
 
BLITZER: So what do you want all of our viewers who are watching us right now? What do you want them to know?
 
ADAR: I want them to know that the fight is not over. The fight is not over until each and every one of the 211 hostages that are being held will be back. And we can't let it get out of the news. And we can let it get -- we just need to continue to speak for them. We need to continue to fight for them. We need to shout their shout because they can't do it. And every day, it's lifetime for them and for their families.
 
So you know, we're very, very happy for us and for the other families. But also, we're asking the government, we're asking the international community, don't let the other ones get -- we need to bring them home, all of them home to their families. And to make sure we can get better from this horrible event that happened here. She told us that when it was tough for her when she at the night or when she felt not good to think about great grandkids they call her Tata.
 
BLITZER: Tata.
 
ADAR: Tata.
 
BLITZER: Not savta?
 
ADAR: Not. And we are -- she's savta for us, but for their great grandkids, she's Tata.
 
BLITZER: Tata.
 
ADAR: So she said she could hear them calling her and then she told herself I have to get really -- I have to be back home for them, so proud to be her grandkids really? She's my hero.
 
BLITZER: You're lucky girl.
 
ADAR: Oh, definitely. Definitely.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLITZER: My special thanks to Adva Adar, a really special woman. I'm so happy she's with her Tata, her grandma right now and the grand -- great grandchildren are with their Tata.
 <br>[12:39:08]
 
And this just coming into CNN right now. Hamas says it is delaying the handover of additional hostages on this the second day of its truce with Israel as it disputes the amount of aid being delivered and the selection of Palestinian prisoners being released. We're getting more information. We'll share that with you when we come back. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) BLITZER: We're following breaking news, Hamas now saying and this delaying, repeat, delaying the handover of hostages on this the second day of its truce with Israel as it disputes the amount of aid being delivered on the selection of Palestinian prisoners being released. Joining us now CNN international correspondent Larry Madowo joining us live from Cairo. So Larry, what are you learning? What are you hearing?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, we now know that Hamas is dissatisfied with how many -- how much aid is getting into Gaza. The last update we got was at 133 trucks had made it across the Rafah crossing into Gaza. They're bringing in badly needed food, fuel, medical supplies, water. But the quota that was agreed upon as part of this deal was up to 200 trucks coming in every day. Yesterday 137 trucks came in, which was the highest and the largest convoy of aid to come into the Gaza Strip since October 7th. Today that's not happened.
 
This might have changed since then, but still not up to the 200 quota that Hamas needs. But part of the problem here and I'm going to read a statement for you from the military wing of Hamas, which says that the al-Qassam brigades decided to delay the release of the second batch of prisoners until the occupation ideas to the terms of the agreement related to the entry of relief trucks into the northern Gaza Strip and due to the failure to adhere to the agreed upon standards of releasing prisoners.
 <br>[12:45:09]
 
So getting aid to Gaza is one thing. But getting up to know that Gaza appears to be at the heart of this dispute here, because there's concerns about dehydration and diseases breaking out in northern Gaza, because of people consuming water from unsafe sources. And Hamas wants to get aid all the way up to northern Gaza. But here's the difficulty listen to one contracted driver talking about the difficulty of getting up north.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NAHED SHUHAIBER, CONTRACTED DRIVER (through translator): We're working in these conditions. It's like a Mission Impossible. We're working 12 hours or maybe more, but we're facing difficulties with the road conditions. We want to deliver the aid to Gaza City, but all the roads there are closed and filled with rubble. That's our main problem right now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO: So that's how hard it is to try and get this aid coming across the Rafah crossing into northern Gaza. But Hamas appears to be saying at least according to this delay, Wolf, that unless more aid can come in and make it to northern Gaza, no hostages will be released.
 
BLITZER: Larry Madowo reporting from Cairo for us, we'll get back to you. Thank you very much, Larry, for that report. We'll have much more on all the breaking news, that's coming up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:50:42]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, right now we're awaiting the release of the second group of hostages by Hamas. And we're told it includes 13 Israeli citizens, adding to the 24 hostages released yesterday. Let's bring in Trita Parsi. He is executive vice president at the Quincy Institute for Responsible statecraft and former president of the National Iranian American Council. He is also the author of the book "Losing an Enemy "on U.S.-Iran relations. Trita, good to see you.
 
So as we await for these hostages, thank you so much, to be released. Hamas says there is a delay because Israel is slow on allowing humanitarian aid to enter. So what does this say about which side is wielding power here?
 
TRITA PARSI, AUTHOR, "LOSING AN ENEMY": Well, both sides definitely have leverage in this situation without a doubt. And this is one of the concerns that always exists with prisoner exchanges of this kind. It is dragged out over several different days, which means that there's plenty of unfortunate risks that something may potentially go wrong.
 
In this specific case, the number of trucks has been below the 200 that has been part of the agreement whether that is because of the mistake, logistical reasons, et cetera. We do not know. But I think this just makes the ordeal for prisoners and hostages on both sides all the more devastating and excruciating when a delay like this takes place.
 
WHITFIELD: And Trita as far as this deal struck, you know, between Israel and Hamas, one Israeli hostage release for every three Palestinian prisoners released, has the balance of legitimacy or even influence just been recalibrated in that region?
 
PARSI: Well, I think what has happened, and it hasn't happened in the United States, to the same extent, but it certainly has happened around the world, is that the initial sympathy that obviously was pouring out in favor of Israel, mindful of what Hamas did on October 7th, has dramatically shifted towards the Palestinians, because of the fact that we now have more than 20,000 civilians killed in Gaza, according to the latest numbers.
 
And the longer this continues, the more damaging that will be, not only to Israel's global standing, but also to that of the United States, because of the fact that the Biden administration has not pushed or in fact, in reality, has blocked a ceasefire. Hopefully, after this prisoner swap, we will not go back to the war as it was before, but rather it will be used to create momentum, or a more enduring ceasefire that puts an end to the killing, and then slowly but surely paves the way for a diplomatic path towards actually resolving this issue.
 
WHITFIELD: And there continue, of course, to be questions about after what about after this pause or truce, or the deal making for the release of the other some 200 hostages? And what about the issue of the Prime Minister, Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, talking about an occupation of Gaza, you know, who controls Gaza as this conflict wanes?
 
PARSI: Well, first of all, Gaza has been under de facto occupation, even prior to this because of Israel's control of the borders, according to international law. What Netanyahu is talking about now is to go back in with military troops occupying parts of it. This is something that Biden administration has said as a red line for them that they will not accept, expanding Israel's territory into Gaza.
 
So it will be a test for the Biden administration as to whether they will cave to this or whether they will stand firm and make sure that this is not going back to a fuller occupation of Gaza, which will only, only make this conflict more deadly and more intractable.
 
WHITFIELD: Qatar has been a vital in these negotiations for the hostages to be released. How do you see a Qatar working on any next phase of deal making and why?
 
PARSI: Well, Qatar is uniquely positioned because of its ability to talk to all sides. It's very much trusted by the United States. And it's not just the Democrats or Republicans. Remember, it was the Qataris that mediated the end to the U.S. occupation of Afghanistan during the Trump years when the Doha agreement was signed. So the Qataris that mediated and end -- the end to the U.S. occupation of Afghanistan during the Trump years when the Doha agreement was signed.
 <br>[12:55:08]
 
So the Qataris have made it a niche for themselves to be that impartial actor that is mediating conflicts of this kind. It is doing so in many different places for the United States, frankly, it did so between the U.S. and Iran, it is doing so between the U.S. and Venezuela as well. Part of the reason why the United States needs Qatar so much is because the U.S. itself has lost the ability to talk to most of the parties in these different conflicts, and that's a very significant weakness of the U.S. positioning.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, we'll leave it there for now. Trita Parsi, always a pleasure talking to you. Thank you so much.
 
PARSI: Thank you for having me.
 
WHITFIELD: Our breaking news coverage of the Israel-Hamas truce continues next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)