Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: New Mission To Sub Debris Site Underway; GOP Candidates Speak At Evangelical Summit; U.S. Median Age Rose To A Record-High 39 Years; Spurs Use Number One Pick On Phenom Victor Wembanyama. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired June 23, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: A new recovery mission is under way in the North Atlantic for debris from the Titan submersible lost in a catastrophic implosion. Canada's Transportation Safety Board has now launched an investigation. The titan sub was headed to more than two miles below the surface to view the wreckage of the Titanic. 
 
And now condolences coming in for the families of the five people lost aboard the submersible. Flowers line a memorial set up in St. Johns, Newfoundland -- the closest land to the site. Hamish Harding, Shahzada Dawood, his son Suleman Dawood, Paul-Henri Nargeolet and Stockton Rush, all died.
 
CNN's Paula Newton, she's in Halifax, Nova Scotia. And Paula, a submarine going down, a submersible going down -- unmanned we should note -- is the intention to bring up some of that debris for a further investigation?
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, Jim. And so, what's going to happen now is the Transportation Safety Board here in Canada has already sent the team on the way. Two important things to note. One is that those remote vehicles are now again on the sea bed. They will map the area and then discuss how to actually bring as many pieces of debris to the surface as they can. 
 
The Transportation Safety Board are having a lot of high profile investigations, obviously. But a crucial one I just want to mention quickly is the Swissair disaster -- Swissair 111 25 years ago just about 60 miles off of this coast here, Jim. And what was so crucial there is that in bringing up the debris, they were able to pinpointed the fact that it was the entertainment system that caused that very tragic air crash. 
 
Similar circumstances here. We he talking about the carbon fiber and the titanium, and how all these materials came together. Important that they bring up those pieces of debris. 
 
Of course, Jim, this will bring a measure of comfort to the families who also want to know why. And you know, as you highlighted there at the beginning, five souls, right, that are being remembered by their families. I wanted you the listen now to, you know, heartfelt tribute from PH's -- PH Nargeolet -- his stepson. Listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
JOHN PASCHALL, PAUL-HENRI NARGEOLET'S STEPSON: Yes, I mean, it's so easy to look online and read about all of the dives that he did, the exhibitions he was on. He was so much more than that in my opinion. He was this big lovable guy. He's a prankster. But he cared so much about his family and everything he did, you know, in life. I guess I was so fortunate to have him for so many years as stepdad.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Yes, and we have heard tributes from all of the five passengers that were there, Jim. And of course, as much as everyone wants answers -- and they do want them, and the family wants that measure of comfort. It's also to know whether or not they knew what was going to happen or if it was immediately that catastrophic failure. Regardless, they will have comfort in knowing that that team will be on the scene very shortly and will be there when that mothership the Polar Prince arrives either later tonight or tomorrow morning and will begin their investigation -- Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, and to your point, the part of the goal here, right, is to learn what you can to help prevent something like this from happening again. Paula Newton in Halifax. Thanks so much -- Brianna. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Coming up, we have learned the FBI is now investigating threatening letters with suspicious substances sent to lawmakers in Tennessee. We'll have the latest on that case. 
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SCIUTTO: Now to some of the other headlines we are following this hour. Bud Light hoping for good times again. The beer company just launched a new marketing campaign aimed at reviving its brand and improving sale. Which tanked amid right wing backlash over the company's decision to spotlighting a transgendered influencer. The new at shows people enjoying it's beer to the tune of the 1979 disco hit "Good Times" by the band Chic. The company says it's also giving away $10,000 to Bud Light fans every week. 
 
Also, the FBI is investigating threatening letters containing a suspicious substance sent to state lawmakers in Tennessee. Officials say the envelopes arrived at the Nashville capital on Tuesday. Firefighters used protective suits and air tanks to test the substance -- which we don't know -- no one was injured. No arrests have been made. 
 
And make sure to check your freezer. A food recall over possible listeria contamination is affecting frozen fruit products sold at chain stores nationwide. The FDA says the fruit is linked to pineapple from a third-party supplier Sunrise Growers. You can find a full list of recalled brands and package codes on the FDA website. Worth checking -- Brianna. 
 
KEILAR: I will check. 
 
All right, Republican presidential candidates are flocking to Washington, D.C. for the influential Evangelical Faith and Freedom Summit. But not all of them are getting a warm receptions, like this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS CHRISTIE, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: He is unwilling to take responsibility for any of the mistakes that were made. Any of the faults that he has. And any of the things that he's done. And that is not leadership, everybody. That is a failure of leadership. And I -- you can boo all you want.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
COOPER: All right. CNN's Jeff Zeleny is here with more on this. We can talk about Trump's hold on the party, but first, this summit is coming here after the Dobbs Supreme Court decision ended constitutional protections for abortions. Is that the issue that's still a driving force? Or is it more personality like you see with that Chris Christie moment? 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: I think it's a bit of both. I mean, what Chris Christie going is really going to the belly of the beast there. And he does not mind being criticized and booed by the former president. Of course, that is the whole basis of his campaign. 
 
But definitely abortion is still really the driving force in this Republican primary campaign. Former Vice President Mike Pence absolutely knows that. And he was speaking today really drawing a marker and a line for his fellow Republican candidates. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE PENCE, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The fact is today, abortion law in the United States is more aligned with China and North Korea than with Western nations in Europe. So I want to say from my heart, every Republican candidate for president should support a ban on abortion before 15 weeks as a minimum nationwide standard. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENY: And that is not something that all of his fellow Republican candidates have embrace -- particularly Donald Trump. He'll be speaking at this forum tomorrow. 
 
So look, this is going to be one of the defining issues, and really the differentiators in the Republican primary campaign over the next several months here. 
 
KEILAR: It's not necessarily going to be working in the Republicans' favors, right? I was just speaking to former Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson about this very issue. How it impacted the last midterm elections and contributed to the fact that Republicans did not takeover both chambers of Congress. 
 
ZELENY: Exactly and he's sort of hesitated on that. Mike Pence said that is not why they lost. But former President Donald Trump isn't and so sure. It's one of the reasons we're told he's really resonant to speak about abortion. He talks more about his Supreme Court Justices -- as he calls them. Of course, he appointed them but they belong to the Supreme Court and not to him. But look for him to focus more on that. 
 
But abortion is still a driving line on both sides of the aisle, Republicans and Democrats alike. 
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
President Biden at the White House, of course, the other candidate in the race here was talking about abortion as well. So for the next year, year and a half, this is still one of the central focal points of American politics. 
 
KEILAR: Republicans will have to figure out how they talk about it. Democrats are definitely going to definitely going to be talking about it. Jeff Zeleny thank you very much -- Boris. 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: The U.S. population is getting older. The median age is hitting a record high. Dr. Sanjay Gupta going is with us next to break down the pros and cons.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SANCHEZ: The U.S. population has been aging for decades. 
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
And now it's older than it has ever been. According to the census bureau, the median age in the United States is now a record high of 39 years old. That's an increase of almost 3 1/2 years since 2000 and a jump of 0.2 years in just the past year alone. CNN's chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta joins us now live. Sanjay, what should we make of these numbers? 
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, I love looking at this sort of data. Because it gives you a real sort of overview of what's happening in the country as a whole. We know the population is expanding. We know life expectancy has dropped for many years. Even before the pandemic. And as you point out, we're getting older overall as well. 
 
So if you take a look here, as you point out, close to 39 years, that is the median age. Boris, I found out you that were born in 1985. So we did sort of comparison. If you go back to when you were born, to give you some context, it was 31.5. So we've gotten quite a bit older over that period of time -- over last nearly 40 years. 
 
If you look at life expectancy as well, I think it is really important. The United States like my other countries, there's been a steady increase overall in life expectancy, again, since around the time you were born. But even before the pandemic, you started to see drops in life expectancy. One of the only countries -- developed countries -- where that was happening here in the United States. During the pandemic, a significant plunge as you could see there. It started to recover some of the numbers. But you could sort of see what happened. We spent $4 trillion a year on health care and life expectancy going down. 
 
That median age number, Boris, we're getting old in part because birthrates still outpace death rates but not as much as it used to. So we're not having as many babies and women are often having babies older in life as well. 
 
SANCHEZ: So fascinating. And Sanjay, you're dedicating the new season of your podcast, exploring how we should approach aging and how we define it and what it means both physically and mentally as well. I guess what I'm trying to figure out is age just a number? 
 
GUPTA: That's how most people would refer to it. But I think there is a chronological age and a biological age. There is also your perceptions of aging. I interviewed my own mom for this podcast and asked her about this. Listen to what she said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANJAY GUPTA: I think that that is the perception, that as you get older, three things happen. Well, a lot of things happen, but it's harder to sleep. The mood is maybe not as good and you have more aches and pains. How about you, mom? So aches and pains, first of all. 
 
DAMYANTI GUPTA, SANJAY'S MOM: None. 
 
SANJAY GUPTA: I guess I always just assumed people had more aches and pains. 
 
DAMYANTI GUPTA: No aches and pains and I don't take any prescription medication. 
 
SANJAY GUPTA: How is your sleep? 
 
DAMYANTI GUPTA: You know what? That's funny. I sleep really, really good. One day somebody says when people, they get old, they sleep less When people they get old, they sleep less. I say maybe I'm getting younger because I sleep nine hours straight without anything. 
 
SANJAY GUPTA: Mood? 
 
DAMYANTI GUPTA: Always in good mood, too. 
 
SANJAY GUPTA: And, and that, I mean, dad's shaking his head.
 
DAMYANTI GUPTA: I'm in a good mood unless somebody gives me a hard time. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GUPTA (on camera): I could tell you, it's fun doing these podcasts because I get to have conversations like that with all sorts people including my parents. 
 
Age is a number, but your perceptions of aging, Boris, so important. There's this an anti-aging movement. People embracing aging though on the other hand more than ever before. And according to my mom, it's not that bad. As much as we dread the idea of getting all, maybe it's not that bad. 
 
SANCHEZ: She sounds lovely. You could listen to Sanjay's podcast, "CHASING LIFE" anywhere you get your podcasts. Always a fascinating listen. Dr. Sanjay Gupta, thanks so much. 
 
GUPTA: You got it, thank you.
 
SANCHEZ: Jim. 
 
SCIUTTO: Experts say he could be a once in a lifetime talent. We're not talking about Boris Sanchez here. More on where the mystery man is taking his talents, next. 
 
But first, a unique heroes union last month in Miami Beach. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are out here in Virginia Key Beach, Miami, Florida, and we are cleaning up. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let's do it. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're clearing the way for hatchlings, how cool is that. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're reintroducing native plants back into this ecosystem as a way to combat a lot of the invasive species that have come in. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My day-to-day is working marine mammals and rehabilitating. So it's important to do this type of work. 
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over): Also important is the nonprofit training that helps the organizations grow stronger and their missions go even further. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We have learned about social media, financial planning, nonprofit management, it's all been extremely helpful. 
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
Have the opportunity to learn how to do more so that we could grow what we're doing and we could expand and serve more people. It's just an opportunity that I'm so grateful for. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: It's official, the big man from France who basketball experts say could become a once in a generation talent is taking that talent so San Antonio. SANCHEZ: Yes, the Spurs using their they're number one overall pick in
 
 the NBA draft has selected Victor Wembanyama. 
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
He's just 19 years old, seven foot four inches tall, with an eight foot wingspan. He could hit the three pretty nicely too. He just led the French basketball league in average points, rebounds and blocks per game and named the league's MVP. 
 
SCIUTTO: The Spurs say they've been watching since him since he was 15 years old. He's 7'4", taller than Shaq, Lebron, even Boris but I'm not sure if he has a better shot than Boris. We have to establish that. 
 
SANCHEZ: He most definitely has a better shot than me but I am not scared of him. I'll go right to the hole. 
 
KEILAR: "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now.