Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Search for Missing Titan Sub in Critical Stage; Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's U.S. Visit. Aired 10-10:40a ET

Aired June 22, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over):  I'm Julia Chatterley, live from New York, in for Becky Anderson. This is CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
Coming up this hour, desperate hours of the search for the missing Titanic sub, still no sign of the craft, as oxygen runs low. 
 
A big morning at the White House, President Joe Biden rolling out the red carpet for India's prime minister in a move that some say is controversial. 
 
And a firsthand look at Ukraine's slow counteroffensive. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Firing these rounds at Russian lines, which are four kilometers or two (INAUDIBLE) the way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHATTERLEY (voice-over):  Plus, a CNN exclusive, former U.S. President Barack Obama is in Athens, speaking with Christiane Amanpour. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
CHATTERLEY:  A warm welcome once again to CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
It is critical now. Officials fear there are only hours of oxygen left on board the Titanic submersible that went missing on Sunday. A massive North 
 
 Atlantic search operation is growing yet more intense. 
 
Officials there say a specialized vehicle has now made it to the bottom of the ocean, joining the hunt for the sub, with five people on board. 
 
 Rescuers are also scouring an area twice the size of Connecticut, off the coast of Newfoundland, Canada. CNN's Paula Newton has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAPT. JAMES FREDERICK, U.S. COAST GUARD:  When you're in the middle of a search and rescue case, you always have hope.
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Hope is running out against a dwindling oxygen supply --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I'm very confident that these banging noises come from the submersible.
 
NEWTON:  -- it also rests on the indistinct banging noise detected by sonar.
 
FREDERICK:  The noises were heard by a Canadian P-3.
 
NEWTON:  U.S. Coast Guard has disclosed that noises were picked up by sonar Tuesday and Wednesday during the search following the deployment of a sonar 
 
 buoy by a Canadian aircraft.
 
FREDERICK:  I can't tell you what the noises are. But what I can tell you is -- and I think this is the most important point -- we're searching where 
 
 the noises are and that's all we can do at this point.
 
NEWTON:  Acoustic information sent to the U.S. Navy has so far been inconclusive.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We are very aware of the time sensitivity around this mission.
 
NEWTON:  The search area has expanded to twice the size of Connecticut and up to two.5 miles deep with more ships and aircraft arriving today to join 
 
 the around-the-clock aerial and below the surface search. 
 
DAVID GALLO, SENIOR ADVISER FOR STRATEGIC INITIATIVES, RMS TITANIC INC:  We need to go full speed, regardless of what that time is and find that 
 
 submarine.
 
NEWTON:  The sub was en route to explore the Titanic wreckage on Sunday but lost communication about 1 hour and 45 minutes into its descent. Five 
 
 passengers were onboard including OceanGate founder and CEO Stockton Rush, who is now facing criticism for the engineering of the sub.
 
STOCKTON RUSH, CEO, OCEANGATE:  I've broken some rules to make this. I think I've broken them with logic and good engineering behind me. The 
 
 carbon fiber and titanium, there's a rule you don't do that. Well, I did.
 
NEWTON:  Two former employees raised safety concerns about the thickness and integrity of the submersible's hull. One employee was fired. He sued 
 
 for wrongful termination. The other resigned. The lawsuit was settled out of court and OceanGate says it conducted further testing on the sub.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Paula Newton is now live with us from Halifax, Nova Scotia. 
 
Paula, you get a sense that rescuers are doing as much as they can. And this has scaled up over the past few days. But it truly is time now and 
 
 oxygen supplies are perhaps a limiting factor. 
 
NEWTON:  Yes and, dare I say, Julia, a little bit of luck. This is, as you rightly point out, a critical day, an unprecedented day, given all the 
 
 assets in the, air the sea surface. What you said earlier, on that sea floor bottom, now all searching for the Titan. 
 
At issue now, as you say, are the oxygen supplies. I think many experts will tell you to not prejudge that. They were saying, four days, which 
 
 would take us to basically this afternoon. 
 
But there are many different ways, especially given the expertise on board, that they could conserve that oxygen. So officials that I speak to here in 
 
 Canada are saying, look we're concentrating on rescue right now, not worrying about whether or not to pinpoint when they may run out of oxygen. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
NEWTON:  The good news here is that if they are able to basically correlate those noises that they are hearing, with the actual water columns -- so 
 
 remember, this submersible was launched from a ship but then it had to basically go straight down, more than two miles into what they call a water 
 
 column, to get where it wanted to go to see that Titanic wreck. 
 
If it is in that area and if they can coordinate with the sounds that they are hearing, perhaps, they have a shot in the next few hours on actually 
 
 locating that submersible. 
 
And the other good news maybe, this Titan has many different ways for itself to basically raise to the surface, to get to the surface if it needs 
 
 to in emergency situations. Perhaps if that didn't happen earlier days, perhaps it happened yesterday or happened today. 
 
And for that reason they will continue as well the water, surface water search. Julia. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  We pray for that luck that you began by talking about. Some kind of miracle in the search. Paula Newton there, for now, thank you, 
 
 reporting from Halifax, Nova Scotia. 
 
And on to the Indian prime minister's high-profile state visit to Washington. Narendra Modi is expected to arrive at the White House. We're 
 
 showing you live pictures, the music there is playing. 
 
The leader of the world's most populous nation and U.S. President Joe Biden will announce a defense partnership, including India's approaches (ph) of 
 
 American drones. 
 
Modi's visit comes with both countries wary over China's growing global influence, along with some questions over President Biden's decision to 
 
 invite a leader once shunned by the United States, whose critics say increasingly clamps down on human rights at home. CNN's Vedika Sud is in 
 
 New Delhi for us. 
 
Much discussion here about what President Biden wants to get out of the state visit. 
 
How is the visit being perceived back home in India?
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  I'm going to break that into two, Julia. First I'll talk about how the Indian media and the people here are 
 
 perceiving this. And then we will very quickly talk about what this means for India and U.S. relations. 
 
For Modi per se, like "The New York Times" put it, it is a big diplomatic win for him because this is one man who was denied a visa, you know, more 
 
 than a decade ago, to enter the U.S., because of his alleged role in (INAUDIBLE) in his home state. The Supreme Court later gave him a clean 
 
 chit. 
 
But today, look at the state visit that he is getting to witness in the U.S., in Washington, D.C. 
 
Now let's go to the bigger picture here, which is, what does this mean for India, for the Narendra Modi government and for India-U.S. relations. This 
 
 clearly means that India is advising as an economic and diplomatic nation. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
SUD (voice-over):  The powers that it really has and that is something that the U.S. President, of course, he knows. It has been a trade-off of many 
 
 sorts here. Like you said, back home, internationally, there is criticism. 
 
There are alleged human rights violations that Narendra Modi's government has been accused of. Of course, there is democratic backsliding that people 
 
 talk of, shrinking press freedom. 
 
The criticism, of course, also being of some of the controversial laws that could impact more than 200 million Muslims here in India. 
 
Biden knows all of that. But the bigger picture for him really is that India is the only counterbalance to China in Asia. That is the reason the 
 
 trade-off is really happening. He might just give the geopolitical powers reasonings and significance more priority. 
 
Then talking about human rights while Modi is there. That's what we're going to see today. We'll wait for the joint statement. Very quickly, 
 
 another very rare moment that we will see in less than three hours from now. 
 
Indian prime minister Narendra Modi taking a question from the media. It's very rare for me, as an Indian journalist, who has seen that in the last 
 
 nine years while he's been in power. We do know from (INAUDIBLE) team in D.C. that it took lengthy and delicate negotiations to get the Indian side 
 
 to agree to have the prime minister take a question after the joint statement with the U.S. President. 
 
So all eyes will be on that and I think that is potentially one of the headlines that you will see back here in India after the prime minister 
 
 speaks to whichever channel or media outlet he does. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Certainly and the choreography surrounding that is going to be fascinating to watch, too. Speaking of choreography, we have literally just 
 
 witnessed President Biden and the first lady walking out to the red carpet, greeting the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi. 
 
He's now meeting Antony Blinken, shaking hands with prime minister Modi, kisses between the first lady there and the vice president as well, warm 
 
 handshakes and smiles and, clearly, a huge ceremony to greet the Indian prime minister.
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  To your point, Vedika, about the elevation of this man and the symbolism of this moment, the poignancy of this moment and the relationship 
 
 I think between the two nations. 
 
To your point, too, the success of India as a large, thriving, liberal democracy and a counterbalance to the rise of China, not just in Asia but 
 
 beyond the two gentlemen who are now walking up to the podium, as you can see there. President Biden guiding prime minister Narendra Modi for the 
 
 cameras. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Distinguished guests, the national anthem of the Republic -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Oh, we're going to witnessing the national anthem, too. Just wondering if either gentleman was going to say something. We will pause for 
 
 a moment just to listen to the national anthem as they stand by. 
 
It's actually difficult to hear. 
 
Vedika, I want to bring it back in, as you said, this is an important moment as we watch, to go back to your point about the delicacy surrounding 
 
 the negotiations of that press conference amid and at a time, where the government in India is known to suppress the views and comments and 
 
 questions from media. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
CHANCE (voice-over):  How closely will that be watched?
 
SUD (voice-over):  Very closely. It will be watched very closely simply for one reason, that is that we rarely hear from the Indian prime minister, 
 
 Narendra Modi, especially back home in India. 
 
Like I said, in the last nine years, we have barely heard him speak to the media when there's been a press conference set up. What you can hear in the 
 
 backdrop right now is the Indian national anthem. That is being -- yes that's what you hear in the background. 
 
Coming back to your question now, I think this is a relationship of giving as much as you want to get from India. That is what even Joe Biden sees in 
 
 terms of India for the simple reason that India is not an ally of the U.S.; it is a partner. And they have made that (INAUDIBLE) over and over again, 
 
 Julia. 
 
And Biden wants them as an ally, not just as a partner. But that is something that India has very strongly denied to do at this point in time. 
 
 They are very close to Russia, as you know. And the adversary is China in the region. 
 
For India, another worry, Julia, is that if they do upset Russia, it would bring Russia and China closer. So they are very (INAUDIBLE) these factors, 
 
 these geopolitical factors. But they do also realize at this point in time, that the imports and dependence on Russia for weapons is extremely high. 
 
And Joe Biden is aware of that. So he has got to take this opportunity today during the bilateral talks with Narendra Modi to try and push that 
 
 agenda, to say, hey, you know what, we can give you the weapons you're not getting from Russia right now because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. 
 
We can provide you with the weapons you need and perhaps we try and draw India (INAUDIBLE) to the U.S. at this point in time. So that is going to be 
 
 one of the top priorities of the U.S. President while he has that bilat with Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, defense being on the agenda.
 
Cooperation in terms of economic talks is on the agenda. Of course the other reasons also for him to be here today, which is cultural ties between 
 
 the two. Both nations have always and constantly said that they have a deep partnership, which they want to take forward. 
 
Space exploration is another. Investments of course. You have seen Modi talk to Musk yesterday and other top CEOs and industrialists. He wants to 
 
 bring in more investment into India. And he wants core production of goods in India along with the U.S. 
 
So he is there with his agenda. Like I said, Biden has his. Biden's eyes clearly are on (INAUDIBLE) really well that China, that the only 
 
 counterbalance to China in the region is India. 
 
And of course, in the last few decades -- rather, the recent years, the only country in Asia that has militarily taken on China is India. And the 
 
 White House is absolutely aware of that. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  We are now hearing and seeing the military band moving from the right of your screen, over to the left there, as the president, 
 
 President Biden, and prime minister Narendra Modi look on and watch this. 
 
The pomp and ceremony of this moment, we can't reiterate this enough, I think to the point that you first made about the status, the elevation, the 
 
 importance upon which they are placing this relationship with India. I think you did a brilliant assessment actually of breaking down the 
 
 strategic nature of this partnership for so many reasons. 
 
The expected deal over the purchase of American made drones, in particular, the diversification of the source for that kind of military and defense 
 
 equipment, providing an alternative source to Russia to your point particularly. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  But also other aspects of this, the supply chains, technology of all forms, particularly at a time when the United States continues to 
 
 look to decouple from Chinese made supplies, too. 
 
There are a whole host beyond the importance of the size of this democracy in India  for strategic relationships. There is a strategic relationship 
 
 for these two nations to deepen further. Vedika. 
 
SUD:  Absolutely. I want to go back to your point on the drones deal. That is one deal that India has really, really been looking forward to. And it 
 
 might just achieve that deal today, while Modi and Biden talk. 
 
That deal is very significant in India, militarily, because it could help India on the border with China. Ever since the (INAUDIBLE) clash where 
 
 India lost about 20 soldiers and China four, the tensions have been very high. 
 
And the tensions between the U.S. and China have been high as well. So this is a time when they can talk about their common adversary. But the White 
 
 House has said that this visit is not about China. Yes, it could be related to China's economy and other factors. But this isn't about China. 
 
Russia is another issue that will be on the agenda. But like I said, the non-alignment that India has always been very firm about, it could be a 
 
 challenge for the Biden administration. He will try to draw India closer. 
 
But Modi is aware of their ties, the traditional tries, the ties that go back decades with Russia. And that will be something that will be very 
 
 difficult for Biden to navigate at this point in time. 
 
But India does need the weapons, Julia, and it is aware of that. Like I said, the bilateral talk today is going to be high on defense deals, on 
 
 economy, on tech and on -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SUD:  -- and different levels and -- 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Vedika, have to interrupt you, because President Biden is speaking. We are just going to listen into what he has to say. 
 
JOE BIDEN (D), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  This will be one of the defining relationships of the 21st century. Two proud nations, two proud 
 
 nations, whose love of freedom secured our independence. 
 
Bound by the same words and our Constitution, the first three words, "We, the people." 
 
The enduring ties and shared values between our people and the shared responsibilities of global leaders to tackle the great issues of our time 
 
 together. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  I'm honored to be the first to have you here in 15 years. The United States is honoring and hosting official visit for the Republic of 
 
 India. Prime minister Modi, welcome back to the White House. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  We spent a lot of time -- we spent a lot of time together, going back to when I was vice president and you had just become prime minister 
 
 and since -- and since have become president, you've continued the relationship built on mutual trust, candor and respect. 
 
The challenges and opportunities facing the world in this century require that India in the United States work and lead together and we are. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  With your partnership, we've invigorated the Quad between United States, India, Australia and Japan. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
BIDEN:  To advance our vision of a free, open, secure and prosperous and Indo-Pacific. Decades from now, decades from now, people will look back and 
 
 say, the Quad bent the arc of history toward global good, as the prime minister describes it. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  Together, India and the United States are working closely on everything from ending poverty and expanding access to health care, to 
 
 addressing climate change, to tackling food and energy and security, stoked by Russia's unprovoked war in Ukraine. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  We've made critical and emerging technologies the pillar of our next generation partnership, to ensure these technologies promote and 
 
 protect our values remain open, accessible, trusted and secure. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  All this matters for America, for India and for the world. We face an inflection point, one of those moments that only come around every 
 
 several generations, when so much is changing technologically, politically, socially and environmentally, that the decisions we make today are going to 
 
 determine our future for decades to come. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  As democracies, we can better tap into the full talent of all of our people and attract investment as true and trusted partners, as leading 
 
 nations with our great British export being the power of our example. 
 
Equity under the law, freedom of expression, religious pluralism and diversity of our people, these core principles have endured and evolved, 
 
 even as they have faced challenges throughout each of our nation's histories and will fuel our strength, depth and future. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  They form a special bond among our nations, forged by the special bond among our people, based on values that are universal, a duty to family 
 
 and elders, treating all people with respect and dignity, the premium on education and creativity, self discipline, hard work, entrepreneurship, 
 
 faith and service to community, courage and resilience and tolerance and opportunity for all. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
BIDEN:  I've seen this in my visits to India. I see it in the Indian- American diaspora that reflects every part of American life and remains a bridge between our nations and only grows stronger with each generation. 
 
We see it with record numbers of Indian Americans serving in the United States Congress. We see it here at the White House, where proud Americans 
 
 with Indian heritage serve our country every day, including our Vice President of the United States, Kamala Harris. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  The granddaughter, the proud granddaughter of Indian civil servants, daughter of an Indian student, turned American scientist, who 
 
 came to the United States when she was only 19 years old to pursue her dream of curing cancer. 
 
A family like so many of ours in our nation that  speaks to the thousand stories of determination, courage and hope. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
BIDEN:  Stories that define the relationship and the limitless possibilities between the United States and India, two great nations, two 
 
 great friends, two great powers that can define the course of the 21st century. 
 
Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for your partnership. And I will turn it over to you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(OFF MIKE COMMENTS)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Distinguished guests, the prime minister of the Republic of India. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
NARENDRA MODI, INDIAN PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  President Biden, first lady Dr. Jill Biden, distinguished guests, Indian Americans, 
 
 thank you, President Biden, for your friendship. 
 
President Biden, first lady Dr. Jill Biden, distinguished guests, friends from the Indian American community, filled with energy and excitement, a 
 
 very good morning to all of you. 
 
First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to President Biden for his warm welcome and his farsighted speech. Thank you, President Biden, for 
 
 your friendship. 
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
MODI (through translator):  Friends, this grand welcome ceremony at the White House today is an honor and pride for 1.4 billion people of India. 
 
 This is also an honor for the more than 4 million people of Indian origin living in the U.S. For this honor I express my heartfelt gratitude to 
 
 President Biden and Dr. Jill Biden. 
 
Friends, about three decades ago I came over to visit to America as a common man. At that time, I had seen the White House from outside. After 
 
 becoming the prime minister, I have come here many times. But today for the first time, the doors of the White House have been opened for the Indian 
 
 American community in such large numbers. 
 
The people of the Indian community are enhancing India's glory in the U.S. through their talent, hard work and dedication. You are the real strength 
 
 of our relationship. I thank President Biden and Dr. Jill Biden for the honor you have been given today. I think I cannot thank him enough for 
 
 this. 
 
The societies and institutions of both India and the U.S. are based on democratic values. The constitutions of both countries begin with the 
 
 following three words, "We, the people," as President Biden just mentioned. 
 
Both of our countries take pride in their diversity. Both of us believe in the fundamental principle of the interest of all and the welfare of all. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
MODI (through translator):  In the post COVID era, the world order is taking a new shape. In this time period, the friendship between India and 
 
 the U.S. will be instrumental in enhancing the strength of the whole world. 
 
The two countries are committed to work together for the global good and for global peace, stability and prosperity. Our strong, strategic 
 
 partnership is a clear proof of the power of democracy. 
 
Friends, in a short while from now, President Biden and I will discuss India-U.S. relations and (INAUDIBLE) and global issues. I'm sure that, as 
 
 always, our conversation today will be very positive and useful. This afternoon, I will also have an opportunity to address the U.S. Congress for 
 
 a second time. I am deeply grateful for this honor.
 
I wish for -- and for the 1.4 billion people of India wish with me -- for India's tricolor and America's Stars and Stripes to always keep flying 
 
 higher and higher. 
 
President Biden, Dr. Jill Biden, once again I thank you for your kind invitation, for your warm welcome and hospitality. Also, on behalf of the 
 
 1.4 billion people of India, (Speaking foreign language). God bless America. Thank you very much. 
 
(OFF MIKE COMMENTS)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK, that was President Joe Biden and the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, ahead of those talks that will take place in the 
 
 coming hours. The prime minister will then address the U.S. Congress. There will be a state banquet tonight and plenty of comments. 
 
"A defining relationship for the 21st century." Those are the words of President Biden, talking about U.S.-India relations going forward. He 
 
 talked about the special bond based on universal values, faith, service, resilience and tolerance -- an interesting word to choose at this moment -- 
 
 the importance of the two democracies. 
 
We also heard prime minister Narendra Modi talking about the honor and the pride of 1.4 billion people back home in India and those who are now living 
 
 in the United States, as well. 
 
He has been to America many times but this is the first time the doors of the White House were open. You definitely got a sense of the relationship 
 
 between these two individuals. A hug and a handshake between the two men. 
 
Vedika, I know you have been watching and listening to this closely. 
 
What stood out to you in the words from the gentlemen?
 
There was definitely an emphasis on how they could strategically combine and work together going forward. I think it was very clear that that 
 
 overrides any perhaps broader concerns about things like human rights in both countries, let's be clear. 
 
SUD:  Absolutely. I think Beijing will be watching this closely as well, Julia, because it is the rhetoric that they were expecting. It was the 
 
 words they were expecting. 
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
SUD:  And both leaders have delivered and expected before the cameras, at the White House, at the South Lawn, where they have praised each other, 
 
 praised the countries, praised the democracies. 
 
But for me, the key takeaway would be whether the U.S. President spoke about shared democratic values. He spoke of feudalism as you pointed out. 
 
 It is just this week that you had 70 congressional Democrats writing to Joe Biden, asking him to bring up human rights issues and concerns with 
 
 Narendra Modi. 
 
The White House had said that they are not here to lecture Narendra Modi and the Indian government on this but the president would be talking about 
 
 this both in public spaces and privately as well. 
 
I would call that my reference to it. But we will have to wait and watch what comes out of the joint statement. That is where we will get to know 
 
 what really happens. Like Modi said, he is looking forward to the U.S. Congress address. This is going to be a moment that will be watched 
 
 closely. 
 
You had three members of the Congress that will be boycotting this event because they claim there has been persecution of Muslims back home here in 
 
 New Delhi by the Modi government. 
 
So high on optics, high on promises. Now it's down to business, Julia, down to business at the Oval Office, where they will talk defense. They will 
 
 talk technology. They are going to talk culture and H-1B visas. 
 
Importantly, like you also mentioned, a part of the defense talks will be the drones that India is eagerly waiting for at this point in time. Back to 
 
 you. 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, vitally important strategic partnership for the future. We reiterate that point. But I could not agree with you more. High on the 
 
 optics, pomp, ceremony, the congratulatory atmosphere and the joy of being at the White House. 
 
But as we always know, actions speak louder than words. There may be some tough words. There may also be some tough words when we get that press 
 
 conference later on today, after the two men and their teams talk as well. We should be looking ahead to that. 
 
For now, Vedika, thank you so much for that. 
 
Plenty more to come, as I mentioned. We will be covering both the events, the statement to the U.S. Congress by the prime minister, Narendra Modi. 
 
 And that state banquet later tonight. As you can see there, smiles, waves from the balcony. Strong relationship on the surface, certainly, between 
 
 these two gentlemen. 
 
Two powerhouses. We're talking with the equivalent of 1.7 billion citizens represented between the two of. Them important democracies for the strength 
 
 of the global economy and world order going forward. These talks, today, clearly pivotal. 
 
We will leave it there. Thank you so much for watching. This is CONNECT THE WORLD. "WORLD SPORT" with Amanda Davies is after this. I will leave you 
 
 with those waves and those smiles. 
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END