Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: U.S. and South Korean Presidents to Meet at White House; Race to Free Sudan amid Fragile Cease-Fire; Alexei Navalny Facing "Two Big Trials" in Russia. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired April 26, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over):  Hello. I'm Lynda Kinkade, live from Atlanta, in for my colleague, Becky Anderson. It's good to have you 
 
 with us. Welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
Coming up South Korean president Yoon Suk-yeol to arrive at the White House for an important meeting with the U.S. president. 
 
Chinese leader Xi Jinping holding a phone call with Ukraine's president. We will explain. 
 
And the World Health Organization warns of a bio risk at a lab in Sudan. 
 
Plus, the U.S. Republican Party rolls out an attack ad made entirely by artificial intelligence. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KINKADE:  This hour, a high stakes meeting at the White House. President Joe Biden is set to hold talks with his South Korean counterpart, Yoon Suk-
 
 yeol, on this second day of Mr. Yoon's state visit. It comes amid ongoing provocations from North Korea and a leak of Pentagon documents. 
 
Their discussions will be followed by a joint news conference and a formal dinner later tonight. I want to go to Jeremy Diamond, who joins us now at 
 
 the White House. 
 
It's good to have you with us. From what we have seen, quite a spectacle today. I understand the Marine band has just wrapped up. The Korean choir 
 
 is singing. There is a lot of pomp and ceremony. 
 
What does this signal about the relationship right now?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, no doubt about it. That pomp and circumstance that you are going to see unfold today is the 
 
 difference effectively between a regular visit by a foreign leader to the White House and all of the trappings that come along with a formal state 
 
 visit. 
 
It is important to note, as you look at the symbolism and the meaning of this state visit by the South Korean president, is the fact that this is 
 
 only the second state visit that the United States has hosted under President Biden. The first visit was with French president Emmanuel Macron. 
 
And now you see the South Korean alliance being put up on a pedestal. Obviously, that is important for a few reasons. First of all, it 
 
 demonstrates the increasing importance that the U.S. places on the Indo- Pacific region. 
 
Secondly, of course, choosing South Korea among several other allies in the Indo-Pacific demonstrates the concern about the nuclear threat from North 
 
 Korea and the important role that South Korea can play in the regional dynamics there, including with China as well. 
 
You know, this visit, on the heels of North Korea test firing a record number of nuclear missiles over the last year, North Korea rejecting U.S. 
 
 efforts to outreach and try to conduct diplomacy with North Korea, to get them to give up their nuclear weapons. 
 
I think you are going to see an emphasis on the deterrence aspect. South Koreans have grown concerned by those increasingly nuclear tests. As you 
 
 have seen in South Korea, there is a growing call for the country to develop its own nuclear arsenal or to host U.S. nuclear weapons there.
 
So it's interesting and a spotlight on the region that President Biden has made very clear is critical to the U.S.' future and present as well. 
 
KINKADE:  Jeremy, we are waiting to see the two leaders there on the White House lawn after they meet there and have a ceremony. They will go via the 
 
 Rose Garden into the Oval Office. Later tonight, they will have that state dinner. 
 
How far will the U.S. go to support South Korea?
 
What is on the table?
 
DIAMOND:  What is on the table is that these two leaders will be signing what is being called the Washington Declaration. It gives new U.S. 
 
 commitments to defending South Korea and trying to deter a potential North Korea nuclear attack. 
 
One of those key components is that you are going to see a nuclear ballistic missile submarine from the United States visiting South Korea. 
 
 There are going to be increased military exercises between the two countries. 
 
Again, what is notable here is the focus on deterrence over trying to disarm North Korea, which tells you where we are at this moment in time. 
 
KINKADE:  Exactly. Jeremy Diamond in Washington, D.C., for us, good to have you on the story. We will speak again this hour, no doubt. Thank you. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
KINKADE:  We will come back to the White House when we see the two leaders at the front. 
 
China's president says he will send an envoy to Ukraine and other countries. The goal is to facilitate a political settlement of the Russian 
 
 war. Words of this come after Xi Jinping spoke with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy for the first time since the war began. 
 
Mr. Zelenskyy described their call as "long and meaningful." Russia says negotiations are unlikely. I want to get more on the significance of this 
 
 from our international diplomatic editor, Nic Robertson. 
 
It's good to see you. Zelenskyy's first call with China was significant, given China's relationship with Russia. China was saying that we will 
 
 always stand on the side of peace. 
 
What did we learn from the readouts on the call?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN SENIOR DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  I think both sides are sort of putting this in a positive light, "long and meaningful." And President 
 
 Zelenskyy says it's an indication of the possibility of adding impetus to improving relations between the two countries. 
 
Remembering that they have long and historic and very deep trade relations. But on the issue of the war in Ukraine, they have been on very different 
 
 positions and sides. President Xi has a long and deep relationship with President Putin. He was in Moscow about a month or so ago, putting forward 
 
 his peace proposal for the war in Ukraine. 
 
But nowhere did it mention that Russia had illegally invaded Ukraine. Ukraine's position on peace is that Russia must completely pull all of its 
 
 troops out of Ukraine, back to 1991 borders. So the two positions are different. 
 
But President Xi tried to position himself as a potential peacemaker. The message from Kyiv was, if that is the case, you need to speak to Ukraine. 
 
 It would be great if you visited here. 
 
So this seems to be a diplomatic breakthrough, that China is sending an envoy to Kyiv and to other countries in the region. Ukraine will send its 
 
 envoy to Beijing as well. They will send an ambassador there. 
 
So it is an important diplomatic step. But "long and meaningful," we don't know how long and we don't really know how meaningful. But this, in the 
 
 language of diplomacy, it indicates they have started something here and both sides see a possibility. 
 
Xi says, look, as far as the war Ukraine is going to go, we are not going to stand on the other side of the fire, meaning ignore the situation. We're 
 
 not going to throw fuel on the fire. Neither are we going to try to profit by it. So president Xi is still pushing their position as a potential 
 
 negotiator here. 
 
But have the two sides narrowed positions on it?
 
It seems hugely unlikely. 
 
KINKADE:  It certainly is interesting given that this is indeed the first time that China has spoken with Ukraine's leader since the war began. That 
 
 is in contrast to the many calls between China and Russia, including the in-person visit last month, when the Chinese president went to Moscow. 
 
You mentioned that China agreed to send an envoy to Ukraine. 
 
If you were to read the tea leaves on this, I mean, where to from here?
 
How much influence, how much sway does China have on how the war plays out?
 
ROBERTSON:  They could have huge influence. They have strong economic ties with Russia. That could give Russia an ability to finance the war. The 
 
 concern is that China will support Russia materially with military aid and equipment in the war. They seem to have indicated that they won't do that. 
 
But there are questions about dual use equipment. There are questions about ammunition that has been supplied rather than complex pieces of military 
 
 equipment, such as highly complex roads (ph) and these sorts of things. 
 
But I think the fact that the envoy was an ambassador in Moscow for China for 10 years tells you about President Xi's position, that he is solidly 
 
 behind Russia, it appears. 
 
KINKADE:  Nic Robertson for us in Kyiv, Ukraine, good to have you on the story. 
 
A fragile 72-hour cease-fire in Sudan is still in effect amid renewed outbreaks of scattered violence. A U.N. official who has spoken to the 
 
 generals commanding rival forces says neither has shown a willingness to begin serious peace talks. 
 
People are racing to flee the country during this period of reduced fighting. Those who remain face rapidly worsening conditions, with food, 
 
 water and electricity running out or already gone. Hospitals in and around Khartoum remain shut. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
KINKADE:  Adding to this, warnings of a huge biological risk after fighters from one faction seized a health lab in the capital. Senior medical 
 
 correspondent Elizabeth Cohen joins me now to talk more about that. 
 
It's good to have you with us. The World Health Organization says polio, measles, cholera are stored in this lab. 
 
How concerning is this development?
 
ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SR. MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Lynda, if the faction that it appears has taken control of this lab makes a mistake and these germs 
 
 get out or intentionally does it, it's obviously not good. 
 
I want to talk about the three diseases that you just mentioned, measles, polio and cholera. These are not new diseases. There is actually quite a 
 
 bit of measles and cholera already in the world. 
 
Whatever might come out of this lab is not really that much of an addition. There is also polio out there in the world. I'm not saying it's good if 
 
 something happens with this lab but these are not some kind of new diseases or something unusual that we don't -- that people are not vaccinated for. 
 
So the part of the world that is vaccinated is heavily vaccinated against polio and measles. Really the concern is more for the immediate area, the 
 
 concern for the people who live in this immediate area, where vaccination rates might not be so high. That is the immediate concern. 
 
Let's take a look at what a medical source in Sudan told CNN. 
 
"The danger lies in the outbreak of any armed confrontation in the laboratory because that will turn the laboratory into a germ bomb and 
 
 urgent and rapid international invention is required to restore electricity and secure the laboratory from any armed confrontation because we are 
 
 facing a real biological danger." 
 
So to be clear, it is not exactly clear how much of a danger there is. Obviously, it is not good if this lab has been taken control of by a group 
 
 that wants to do harm -- Lynda. 
 
KINKADE:  We will speak to you very soon about the story to get another update. It's good to have you with us. We appreciate it. 
 
We are going to take you back to the White House, where we are seeing live pictures of a welcome ceremony underway right now on the South Lawn. U.S. 
 
 President Joe Biden and the first lady, as well as vice president and the second gentleman, officially received Mr. Biden's South Korean counterpart, 
 
 Yoon Suk-yeol and his wife. 
 
This is the second day of their state visit. And it has kicked off a pretty busy morning. The two leaders are set to hold bilateral meetings with their 
 
 staff, as later this hour the head of the joint news conference, which we will bring to you in the coming hours. 
 
There, of course, will be full pageantry and glamor in the evening as the Bidens roll out the red carpet for the president and Ms. Yoon as well as 
 
 other key dignitaries at a black tie state dinner. We have our Paula Hancocks covering this from Seoul. 
 
This is a pretty crucial meeting. It's good to have you with us. It comes less than two weeks after North Korea tested a solid fuel intercontinental 
 
 ballistic missile. We understand the president is expected to sign this new agreement, a Washington declaration, which will see the U.S. send nuclear 
 
 subs to South Korea. Tell us more. 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Lynda, this is one of the main things that President Yoon Suk-yeol wanted when he went to visit with 
 
 President Biden. He wanted to strengthen the extended deterrence. 
 
He has consistently said for many months now that South Korea needs more guarantees, more reassurance from the United States in the face of this 
 
 increased threat from North Korea. 
 
The fact that Kim Jong-un is now saying he wants an exponential increase in his country's nuclear weapons arsenal, the fact he is saying that he is 
 
 developing and deploying tactical nuclear weapons around the country, what we are hearing in Seoul is that they feel that they need something extra. 
 
They are already protected by the nuclear umbrella, which is what many of America's allies are protected by. In case it is needed, the U.S. would 
 
 come to South Korea's aid with all of its military and nuclear capabilities. 
 
But what this declaration does is really gives more of a visible deterrent for North Korea, against North Korea. Whether it actually changes anything 
 
 in practical terms, it is more visible and something that President Yoon can come back to South Korea with and say, this is the extra guarantee that 
 
 we have from the United States. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
HANCOCKS:  So what it basically means is they are going to boost their cooperation and coordination on military training, which we have seen over 
 
 the past several months significantly increase in these joint military drills between the U.S. and South Korea. 
 
There will be information sharing at strategic asset movements. This U.S. will send a nuclear ballistic submarine into Korean waters. That is the 
 
 first time since the early 1980s that that has happened. 
 
What we are seeing is a very visible guarantee that the United States will be there for South Korea, should it need that kind of assistance. Of 
 
 course, what Washington will be hoping for is that this might quieten some of the voices here in South Korea which are calling for South Korea to have 
 
 its own nuclear program, nuclear weapons program. 
 
It was a fringe argument about 10 years ago; it has significantly gained in power. All the polls have a majority of South Koreans polled saying that 
 
 they believe that, as the North Koreans have a nuclear weapons program, then so the South Koreans should as well. 
 
So this is Washington's way of trying to placate and quieten some of those voices as the U.S. and many countries around the world would not want to 
 
 see South Korea go nuclear -- Lynda. 
 
KINKADE:  We are looking at live pictures of the U.S. President and South Korean president meeting on the lawn of the White House. We have seen a lot 
 
 of pomp and ceremony so far today, Paula. We saw the Marine band playing earlier, a Korean choir singing. 
 
The red carpet was rolled out for the meeting today. Tell us a little bit more about the relationship between the U.S. and South Korea. 
 
HANCOCKS:  Part of this state visit is the fact that this is the 70 year anniversary of the alliance between the United States and South Korea. 
 
 There are a number of events that will be happening throughout this year to show just how close and how long-standing that alliance is. 
 
That would have played into the decision for Washington to make this a state visit for President Yoon, just the second state visit that President 
 
 Biden has actually held. We have been hearing from U.S. officials as well that this is a personal relationship between the two presidents that is 
 
 being nurtured as well. 
 
President Biden came here to South Korea in May of last year. And President Yoon was about 11 days into the job. So he came right at the beginning of 
 
 President Yoon's presidency. And they have met three more times on the sidelines of different summits and different groupings. 
 
So this is the fifth time; they have had four meetings and U.S. officials are pointing out that this is a close relationship between the two 
 
 countries. But they are also pushing forward the fact that it is not just a military relationship but an economic relationship. That is something that 
 
 both sides want to nurture -- Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  We will come back to the White House once they speak. It looks like President Biden might be about to take to the podium to speak. 
 
Thanks for standing by with us, Paula. We're going to listen in. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The national anthem of the Republic of Korea followed by the national anthem of the United States. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  The lawn -- on the lawn of the White House, you can hear they're going to play the national anthems for both the U.S. and South 
 
 Korea. We are going to leave this just for a moment and come back when the two leaders make their remarks. 
 
Paula Hancocks, thank you for standing by. We will come back to you in just a moment. 
 
Russian president Vladimir Putin's most famous critic could spend the rest of his life in a Russian prison. A spokesperson for jailed opposition 
 
 leader Alexey Navalny said that he faces two new trials in Russia on charges of extremism, the other terrorism. If convicted of both, he could 
 
 end up with a combined sentence of 65 years behind bars. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
KINKADE:  His daughter told CNN that her father is suffering from extreme weight loss because of limits on his food. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DARIA NAVALNAYA, ALEXEI NAVALNY'S DAUGHTER:  The situation has gotten so ridiculous. He buys the food, which, as you know -- it's nothing. It's not 
 
 luxurious. He buys the oats. The oats are brought to him, shown to him and then are just destroyed. So he can't eat. 
 
And it's -- you know, something so basic is stripped away from a human being. It's outrageous. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  CNN's Scott McLean is following the story. He joins us live from London. 
 
Thank you for being with us. We saw him briefly. He is facing these new charges of terrorism. He was already in court for this existing charge. 
 
 That could mean decades behind bars for him. 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  So 35 years for the new terrorism charge and 30 years for the existing extremism charge, which I will get to a just 
 
 a moment. His team said that this is related primarily to two things. 
 
One, comments made not by him but by his chief of staff about President Putin and secondly about the death of a Russian journalist in a St. 
 
 Petersburg cafe earlier this month. 
 
The investigators in that case are pointing the finger at Ukrainian agents working in collaboration with Navalny's office mission group, the Anti-
 
 Corruption Foundation. They deny any involvement in this. 
 
The reason he was in court today was for a hearing on that extremism case. The judge was asked to rule on the prosecutor's motion to limit the amount 
 
 of time that Navalny had to review the files in the case, the materials in the case. The judge ruled in favor of that. 
 
So Navalny will have only 10 days to review the material. We're talking about 196 volumes. His daughter says each volume has 250 pages, double 
 
 spaced. By my math, Navalny would need to read more than five pages per minute for 16 hours a day for the next 10 days to get through all of that. 
 
This may all be a moot point, frankly, because Navalny's team also said that, inside the penal colony that he is being housed in, he doesn't have 
 
 access to any of these documents or any of these court filings. 
 
We also briefly heard from Navalny himself at the hearing. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEXEI NAVALNY, RUSSIAN OPPOSITION LEADER (through translator):  I just wanted to say that I got a little bit lonely in solitary confinement. And 
 
 it is just amazing for me to see so many people. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (from captions):  We are happy to see you as well.
 
NAVALNY (through translator):  The only people who I am in contact with are the ones who hand me the food and of course my favorite head of unit, who 
 
 sits next to me (INAUDIBLE). 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCLEAN:  So Navalny's team, Lynda, says he is going back into solitary confinement for another 15 days. They said about two weeks ago that he had 
 
 lost some eight kilograms, about 17 or 18 pounds, in the course of just two weeks. 
 
So there are concerns about his health. His team suggests this might be related to him being the poisoned, albeit very slowly. His lawyer said this 
 
 might sound like nonsense. This might sound like paranoia. But not to a guy like Alexei Navalny, who has been poisoned before. 
 
KINKADE:  It is devastating seeing how this case is playing out. Scott McLean for us in London, thank you for staying on the story. We will come 
 
 back to you again soon. 
 
I want to go back to the White House now. You are seeing live pictures of the U.S. President meeting with the South Korean leader, walking through 
 
 the guard of honor there. 
 
They are going to have bilateral talks in the coming hours about plans to boost military ties in the region and work together on more military 
 
 training drills, sharing intelligence. They are going to sign what they are calling the Washington declaration that will see U.S. send nuclear 
 
 submarines to South Korea for the first time in decades, the first time since the 1980s. 
 
Paula Hancocks is standing by. 
 
If you can hear me right now -- 
 
We've lost Paula. 
 
This visit comes less than two weeks after North Korea tested a solid fuel intercontinental ballistic missile. The president is expected to sign this 
 
 very significant agreement. We will be following what takes place in North Korea over the coming days and weeks. 
 
When we see any sort of new agreement, we can see some sort of reaction from North Korea. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
KINKADE:  It has been quite a spectacle on the White House lawn today. The U.S. President is just about to speak. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (INAUDIBLE).
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  You are looking right now at live pictures from the lawn of the White House, a great spectacle today. We have seen the Marine 
 
 band playing. Earlier we saw a Korean choir singing. We have our Kevin Liptak standing by in Washington, D.C. watching this official state visit 
 
 playing out. 
 
Kevin, if you can hear me, certainly a lot of pomp and ceremony. 
 
What does this all signify about the relationship between South Korea and the United States?
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  I think when we look at these images, they are full of ceremony -- red carpets, fifes and drums. What 
 
 that really does symbolize is this critical relationship between the United States and South Korea. 
 
This is not something that the White House rolls out for just any country. In fact, this is only the second time that President Biden has extended an 
 
 invitation for this sort of state visit to one of their allies. It is symbolic. 
 
But it also really does underscore the importance that Washington is placing on its relationship with Seoul. In fact, this is the 70th 
 
 anniversary of the alliance between the United States and South Korea. Certainly President Biden wants to reinforce that. 
 
But this visit is not just about what you see here, the drumming, the trumpets and the band. This is about North Korea, this is about nuclear 
 
 deterrence. They are expected to arrive at a quite significant agreement when they sit down in the Oval Office later today. 
 
They are planning to sign an agreement that would say the U.S. will help boost nuclear deterrence in the region. In fact, the U.S. has agreed to 
 
 send a ballistic nuclear submarine to the Korean Peninsula. That is a significant step, the first time, I think, in 40 years that the U.S. is 
 
 taking that step. It does reflect this heightened tension in the area. 
 
I'm not sure --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KINKADE:  Kevin, just going to interrupt you. The U.S. President is speaking. Let's listen in. 
 
JOE BIDEN (D), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  -- that unites the Republic of Korea and the United States. 
 
President Yoon, Ms. Kim, you were kind enough to host me in Seoul last year, just 10 days after your inauguration. And Jill and I were honored to 
 
 be able to return some of your hospitality with your second state visit to this administration. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking Korean).
 
BIDEN:  This year marks the 70th anniversary of the alliance between our two nations. It is an unbreakable bond, forged in bravery and the sacrifice 
 
 of our people, sanctified by the blood of American and Korean troops, who fought and defended liberty. And I am proud of that we are joined today by 
 
 veterans of the Korean War. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking Korean).
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
BIDEN:  Those veterans are the reason we can stand here today --
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
BIDEN:  -- two vibrant and innovative democracies. We stand as strong, proud and free because of them. And so many of whom, Mr. president, have 
 
 visited the Korean War Veterans Memorial with you last night, to lay a wreath of remembrance, to fulfill a sacred obligation. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking Korean).
 
BIDEN:  On September 1, 1950, Corporal Luther Story (ph) performed acts of bravery above and beyond all measure, defending his brothers in arms on the 
 
 Pusan (ph) perimeter in the Korean War. 
 
The last anyone saw of the corporal, he was wounded, fighting off a hostile assault to protect his company's withdrawal. In 1951, his heroism was 
 
 recognized with the Medal of Honor. But Corporal Story's (ph) body was never accounted for until now. 
 
The Republic of Korea and the United States worked together to identify Corporal Story's (ph) remains among those buried as the Korean War -- as a 
 
 Korean War unknown in the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific. Today, we can return him to his family, to  his rest with all the honors he 
 
 deserves because we never forget our heroes. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking Korean).
 
BIDEN:  Mr. President, over the past seven decades, our alliance has grown stronger and more capable. And the cooperation between our people, our 
 
 commitment to one another has grown deeper across every aspect of our partnership. 
 
Today, our economies are on the vanguard of technological development. Our nations are powerhouses of innovation. And our people united, still by our 
 
 democratic values, are taking on the challenges of the world. And we are taking them on together.
 
We're standing strong against Russia's brutal aggression against Ukraine, advancing an Indo Pacific region that is free and open, building secure and 
 
 resilient supply chains and pioneering a clean energy economy, investing together to ensure our future will be grounded in the values that we share, 
 
 which have always, always made us strong. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking Korean).
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking Korean).
 
BIDEN:  Mr. President, ours is a future filled with unimaginable opportunity and endless possibility. Nothing, nothing is beyond our ability 
 
 to reach when our nations and our people stand united. We have proven that time and again over the last 70 years. 
 
As our troops say, who still proudly serve together in the ROK to this day, we go together. May we continue that refrain of the Republic of Korea and 
 
 the United States for all of the days ahead, we go together. God bless our nations and God protect our troops. Thank you. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking Korean).
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Distinguished guests, the president of the Republic of Korea.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
YOON SUK-YEOL, PRESIDENT OF SOUTH KOREA (through translator):  Mr. President, Dr. Biden, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, last 
 
 evening, my wife and I visited the Korean War Memorial on the National Mall with President Biden and Dr. Biden. 
 
There I saw the epitaph that reads, "Our nation honors her sons and daughters who answered the call to defend a country they never knew and a 
 
 people they never met." 
 
Why did they sacrifice their lives for this, for a country and the people they never met?
 
That was for one noble cause, to defend freedom. 
 
The ROK-U.S. alliance was forged in blood as a result of our fight for freedom. It is not a transactional relationship. It does not operate for 
 
 the sake of mere interests. The ROK-U.S. alliance is an alliance of values, standing together to safeguard the universal value of freedom. 
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
YOON (through translator):  The ROK-U.S. alliance is a just alliance. It is a global alliance for freedom, peace and prosperity around the world. The 
 
 ROK-U.S. alliance is an alliance in action, moving toward the future. 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to look back to the 70-year history of our alliance and, with President Biden, to design the vision for our shared 
 
 future. I came here to celebrate and congratulations on the 17th anniversary of the alliance with pride, with joy and with the American 
 
 people. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
YOON (through translator):  Mr. President, Dr. Biden. I once again thank you for your kind invitation for my state visit. And I also thank the 
 
 American people for your warm welcome and hospitality. Thank you. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
KINKADE:  You have been listening to the United States president, Joe Biden, and the South Korean, President Yoon, speaking outside of the White 
 
 House on what is the 70th anniversary of the U.S.-South Korean alliance. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden spoke about the two vibrant independent democracies, spoke about how the alliance has grown stronger, how their 
 
 commitment has grown deeper and how they are both nations, powerhouses of innovation. 
 
Together they are taking on the challenges of the world. The South Korean President Yoon reiterated that message about the strength of the alliance, 
 
 saying that the alliance aims to safeguard the universal value of freedom. 
 
The two leaders will soon walk past the Rose Garden and later head to a state dinner tonight. 
 
Our Kevin Liptak is in Washington, D.C., following the ceremony, following the speeches. 
 
Certainly a lot spoken there about the strength, the relationship between these two countries. 
 
The biggest question is, how far will the U.S. go to support and protect South Korea?
 
LIPTAK:  That is a question that a lot of South Koreans will have and that President Yoon certainly has, as well. I think that President Biden's 
 
 message in delivering the state visit, extending the visit for this highest form of American diplomacy, is that the United States will stand by South 
 
 Korea. 
 
It takes this treaty alliance very seriously. You saw that as well, when President Biden visited Seoul last year, really underscoring the commitment 
 
 of the United States to defend South Korea from its neighbor in the North and also from this broader growing threat in the region. 
 
When you see them sit down today, this was the symbolic part of this visit. They will go down and meet in the Oval Office in a few minutes from now. 
 
 That is where the business of this visit will really get underway. 
 
They are expected to talk about this idea of nuclear deterrence and the United States upping its commitment in that area, including sending a 
 
 ballistic nuclear submarine to the region, laying the groundwork for what could be, potentially, a much deeper military alliance going forward. 
 
It really tells you these efforts at diplomacy with North Korea that had been pursued by the former president, Donald Trump -- and in fact, the 
 
 Biden administration had hoped to pursue some level of diplomacy with Pyongyang as well. That has stalled. That has not been successful. 
 
Every American effort to get Kim Jong-un and his staff to the table, to the negotiating table, has failed. They have not gotten much of a response. 
 
 This is an indication that they may have to go in another direction to really show to South Korea that they take its defense seriously. Of course, 
 
 the other major area they want to discuss is China. 
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
LIPTAK:  The United States really does see South Korea as a key component of its strategy in the region, as it works to counter military aggressions, 
 
 economic aggressions from Beijing. So they will want to talk about that, as well. 
 
This is the key to President Biden's strategy and Asia is developing this alliance bloc that could prove counter to Beijing as those tensions 
 
 escalate as well. 
 
KINKADE:  And that nuclear deterrence is key. Kevin Liptak for us in Washington, D.C., those bilateral talks soon to get underway between the 
 
 president of South Korea and the U.S. Much more on that in the next hour. 
 
I am Lynda Kinkade. For now we will go over to "WORLD SPORT" in just a moment. Stay with us. You are watching CNN. 
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END