Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: French Unions Call For Nationwide Strikes, Demonstrations; Federal Reserve Raises Interest Rates By A Quarter-Point; TikTok CEO To Testify Before U.S. Congress; Russia's War on Ukraine; Prince William Visits Troops Near Ukrainian-Polish Border; Russia Denies Receiving Requests over Deported Children; New York Grand Jury to Reconvene Thursday; Uganda Anti-LGBTQ+ Bill; Lebanon's Economic Crisis; Wall Street Looks to Profit from U.S. West's Vanishing Water; Gisele Bundchen on Divorce; Judge May Force Rupert Murdoch, Fox Executives to Testify. Aired. 1-2a ET

Aired March 23, 2023 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:21]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Ahead this hour, more than 10,000 please deployed across France, as unions call for another day of protests and strikes have a plan to increase the retirement age.
 
Stay the course, the U.S. fed increases interest rates again to fight inflation despite turmoil within the banking sector and deadly Russian airstrikes resume on Ukrainian civilians. A deliberate campaign of terror by Russia says Ukraine's President.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from CNN Center. This is CNN Newsroom with John Vause.
 
VAUSE: It seems battle lines have been drawn in France with union leaders calling for another nationwide strike Thursday while the government pushes ahead with plans to raise the retirement age from 62 to 64. 12,000 police officers will be deployed across the country, including 5,000 in Paris alone. But despite the growing unrest, President Emmanuel Macron is defending the age increase as the only way to fund France's pension system into the future.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EMMANUEL MACRON, FRENCH PRESIDENT (through translator): As I speak to you today, do you think I enjoyed doing this reform? No. Do you think I could have done the same as many others before me and sweep this dust under the rug? Yes, maybe. But the reality is today there is one thing I regret is that we weren't able to inform the constraints and more specifically, the need to undergo this reform.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Macron wants the retirement age to take effect by year's end. Even though weeks of protests and industrial rest is now traffic, slow fuel deliveries for schools to close, the tons of garbage rotting in the streets. On Wednesday, the far right opposition leader Marine Le Pen accused Macron of turning his back on the people of France. Here she is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIL)
 
MARINE LE PEN, LEADER, NATIONAL RALLY PARTY (through translator): He says that he respects the protesters but he insults them and he insults all French people in general. All those who in virtue of respect of the Constitution are protesting, including those who are protesting peacefully are those who are respecting the Constitution and are going on strike.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: CNN's Melissa Bell has the latest report again from Paris.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISS BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): The protests have been unplanned. The scuffles almost nightly, ever since the French government announced it would push its pension reform through Parliament without a vote.
 
French lawmakers in uproar as well last Thursday as the announcement was made. The government narrowly surviving two no-confidence votes on Monday with the retirement age in France, now one step closer to being raised from 62 to 64.
 
MACRON (through translator): We will not tolerate any flare ups. We will make sure that life is as normal as possible in spite of those who are blocking normal life.
 
BELL: But since the start of the year, there have been demonstrations and strikes across the public and private sector. 10,000 tons of garbage now piled high on the streets of Paris.
 
MAHER TEKAYA, SENIOR OFFICIAL, CFDT UNION: What is sure that it was the biggest social movement we had since the beginning of the 80s. And sure it's quite complicated. A lot of people went into strike even if it was hard in the current condition to go on strike to lose a day of wage, but probably this is pointing out other problems (INAUDIBLE).
 
BELL: Unions and protesters now looking beyond parliament to the streets, with the lack of a vote only likely to have further fueled their determination. Melissa Bell, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: And live now to Los Angeles, CNN European Affairs commentator, Dominic Thomas. Good to see you. Don. 
 
DOMINIC THOMAS, CNN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS COMMENATOR: Good to be with you, John.
 
VAUSE: So if anyone thought that Macron would try and calm and angry and outraged nation for the TV interview on Wednesday, and many thought he would they were wrong. He's part of that interview with a defiant French president. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACRON (through translator): Though yes, there are 100 solutions if we want the pension system to be balanced, it no longer is and the more we wait, the more it will get worse. And so this reform is necessary. And I say this to the French people I do not enjoy doing it. I would have preferred not to do this. But it is also because of my sense of responsibility that I expressed my commitment to do this in front of you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
VAUSE: OK, so yes, planning the French pension system faces some long term challenges, long term, but there doesn't seem to be any attempt to involve workers or unions in finding a way to fix the problems and rarely is it only one solution to a problem. Many made the point this is not an imminent crisis. There is time here. There's no need to barrel this through so quickly. So why?
 
THOMAS: Yes, it's fascinating. I think that, first of all, Emmanuel Macron, will argue that this is something that he wanted to do during his first term, but that ultimately, the process was delayed because of the response for the global pandemic, the situation in Ukraine and so on. So he's absolutely determined to legislate on this.
 
Now, of course, there's historic precedent, you know, all the way back to 1995. So almost 30 years ago, now he's actually have tried to do this and eventually have to back down because of the kind of turmoil we're seeing on the streets today.
 
Now, Emmanuel Macron finds himself also in a rather unique situation, because all the way back to the early 2000s. This is the first president that does not have a parliamentary majority. In other words, not only can he not legislate, but he needs to find ways to legislate differently. And he has not been good at consulting and listening to others. He simply argues that he was reelected and that he has a mandate.
 
And what folks are pointing out to him is that really only 28 percent of those people who actually bothered voting in round one supported Emmanuel Macron. And the rest of them essentially voted against Le Pen in the run off stages. And so you have a president here occupying this kind of centrist position in which you have a far left and a far right but are not interested ultimately, in working with him on these policies. And he hasn't done the adequate job of essentially trying to reach across these different aisles to try to find ways to get this legislation through, John.
 
VAUSE: And the way he's done this ramming this through Parliament without a vote. One opinion writer in the Washington Post says this, it amounts to nothing less than the dismantling of our entire social model, first because it worsens the lives of the poorest among us without any apparent sympathy from our leaders and also because our president somehow feels entitled to force a deeply controversial policy without parliamentary support. What kind of democracy are we in?
 
It's a fair question. One thing is pretty clear here using this constitutional measure 49.3. It's made a volatile situation a whole lot worse, and Macron continues to defend not just the bill, but the way he passed it.
 
THOMAS: Yes, and this is why that thing, that article you're referring to is so interesting, and so important, because of course, the author, Rokhaya Diallo, who's a filmmaker, journalist in France has written a lot about these kinds of competing social models. And I think what's interesting about that writing are the ways in which you translate for an international audience, the situation that's happening.
 
Now Emmanuel Macron enjoys a very robust, favorably -- favorability ratings on an international scale. But it's domestically that he's has trouble communicating these policies speaking at people rather than to people. And so given the fact that we just pointed out that he lost that parliamentary majority.
 
And secondly, that he hasn't consulted for us and have recourse in this particular case, to Article 49.3 the push legislation through without the support of the representatives of the -- in the lower house was, of course, the catalyst that was needed for the social movements.
 
And what we see on the streets, which is interesting is not so much banners that are talking about an opposition to the pension reform, but actually banners that are anti-Macron. And I think that tells you a lot about this particular situation and his communicative tools.
 
VAUSE: And with that in mind, you will see these violent clashes with police this nationwide fury, maybe anti-Macron banners. And during that interview, he kind of made a concession in a way saying, you know, he'll address his sense of injustice part by so many across the country, this what he said, listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACRON (through translator): There is a bit of cynicism at play. When you have big companies that make such exceptional income and end up using this money to buy back their own shares on this, I'm going to ask the government to be able to work on an exceptional contribution so that this money when they're an exceptional profits, companies that are ready to buy back their own shares that their workers can benefit from it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: It's kind of a fair point, but a total sort of non sequitur in a way and it's not as severe he doesn't get it.
 
THOMAS: It doesn't and I think when it comes to that economic question, we look at the tax reductions for the wealthy, for corporations, and so on that argument has been widely challenge. What Emmanuel Macron I think has failed to really grasp here is that these grievances he says he wishes to address go all the way back to the very early days of his presidency, when the yellow vests movement got going movement that was essentially interrupted because of the global COVID pandemic that where people were already speaking to those kinds of grievances.
 
And what we see here is an Emmanuel Macron, who is absolutely determined through his process of renewal, his party has remained Renaissance and to move forward on this legislation, that he is not adequately listening to what the unions are saying, to what the streets are saying, to what public opinion saying.
 <br>[01:10:15]
 
And I think that this is a problem now, but also a problem for him moving forward over the next three or four years on any kind of legislation that he seeks to pass through Parliament without that majority, and unless he can deal with that, right now, we're looking at another few years of social, economic and ultimately political paralysis in France, and that, unfortunately, is neither good for that country for the people or for Europe in a broader context, John.
 
VAUSE: Don, thank you. We're done. But I'm out of time, but it does raise the question who is listening to? But maybe next time, thanks. Good to see you.
 
THOMAS: Thank you.
 
VAUSE: Take care. Well, for the ninth time in just over a year, the U.S. central bank has raised official interest rates are now at their highest levels since late 2007. But this increase comes with turmoil within the banking sector. It's seen as a clear sign Fed Chairman Jerome Powell is determined to stay the course and a never ending quest to bring down inflation.
 
The Fed increased the key rate by a quarter point on Wednesday. Well, that came as no surprise to most. U.S. financial markets did not respond well. The Dow down more than 500 points and NASDAQ and S&amp;P each lost more than one and a half percent.
 
Let's take a look at markets in the Asia Pacific region right now. And you can see the Nikkei down by almost a quarter of 1 percent. The Hong Kong up by almost 1 percent. Shanghai flat and also the Seoul KOSPI flat so kind of mixed across the board there, not much reaction at all.
 
The Fed Chairman Powell though said the banking system is sound and resilient. He rejected calls for a pause in rate hikes. Notably, a statement by the Fed did not explicitly refer to future rate hikes, instead saying further increases may, may be needed. More now from CNN's Richard Quest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) RICHARD QUEST, CNN BUSINESS EDITOR-AT-LARGE (on camera): Trust the Fed to walk this narrow tightrope, and perhaps have it both ways. The Fed has admitted that the banking crisis is likely to restrict credit, it will be harder to borrow money. And that will help slow down the economy and ultimately bring down inflation. Therefore, they didn't need to do as much and could only raise rates by a quarter point. The banking crisis was doing that work for them.
 
But the Feds taken a Get Out of Jail Free card by saying that if for some reason, this is all so uncertain, and it doesn't pan out that way. Then they will go back to raising rates. You see inflation in the eyes of the Fed is still public enemy number one. Richard Quest, CNN, Tokyo.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Joining us now is Catherine Rampell, policy and economics and political commentator, as well as a Washington Post opinion writer, a good to have you with us.
 
CATHERINE RAMPELL, CNN ECONOMICS AND POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Great to be here.
 
VAUSE: OK. So this one quarter of 1 percent increase in rates by Jerome Powell, essentially the best outcome because any higher, because that increased fears over inflation, and he lower, vindicated problems at the banking center may have been even more serious trouble than were being told.
 
RAMPELL: I think that was the strategy for Fed officials certainly that they were worried that if they paused rates outright, which a lot of people were calling for because of fragility in the banking system, that might signal concern over fragility in the banking system. And maybe that signal would swamp whatever the, you know, more gentle effect they intended to have would have, if they raised rates more, say a half a percentage point, which is what the expectation had been before all of this bank turmoil that could be tightening too much and actually put stress on the financial system.
 
So this was their way of splitting the baby. In some ways, nobody's happy. But in some ways, I think this might have been the only option available.
 
VAUSE: Maybe the Goldilocks increase, perhaps not too hot.
 
RAMPELL: Goldilocks. Sure. Sure. Much more positive.
 
VAUSE: That's leading the baby. Yes. I want to listen, Jerome Powell on what might actually be. It sounds like good news. You tell me. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEROME POWELL, U.S. FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIR: We no longer state that we anticipate that ongoing rate increases will be appropriate to quell inflation. Instead, we now anticipate that some additional policy firming may be appropriate.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Is he saying what I think he's saying?
 
RAMPELL: I don't think he is. In fact, I think what he I think what he's saying is that they are monitored -- they're monitoring economic and financial conditions to decide which way to err. Right? Do they err on the side of more tightening to tackle inflation, meaning that they raise interest rates more because they're worried about price growth still being out of control? Or do they raise rates a little bit less aggressively than they might have otherwise because they're worried about a recession?
 
So I think that's what he's communicating there. He's saying we're going to watch what the data does as it comes in. He keeps on using this term data dependent, the Fed is data dependent, and they are going to try to calibrate policy depending on which risks they think is more dire at any given moment is the risk inflation? Is the risk recession slash financial turmoil?
 <br>[01:15:07]
 
So I think actually, this is not a great situation to be in, where they have to maintain so much uncertainty about what their outlook is and about what their likely trajectory is because they don't know where the economy the economy is going to end up.
 
VAUSE: Well, thanks for the clarification, because I know what he's going to say here is not really good news. Here's Jerome Powell one more time. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POWELL: We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keep longer term inflation expectations well anchored. Reducing inflation is likely to require a period of below trend growth, and some softening in labor market conditions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Those be like a red flag football for Democrats, Senator Elizabeth Warren. And this is what she had to say in response to that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: Do you think the United States is headed for a recession?
 
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (R-MA): I think that that is where Jerome Powell is trying to drive it. And he's got two different ways.
 
TAPPER: He's purposely trying to drive it to a recession/
 
WARREN: Well, when he's trying to do is get 2 million people laid off.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: He's really trying to do that, or is he trying to have a soft landing and have it both ways?
 
RAMPELL: No. No. He is trying to have a soft landing by which is usually meant not a recession, getting inflation wrung out of the economy without putting a lot of people out of work. Now, it would be really nice if we could get that outcome. But that outcome is not guaranteed. There may be pain that results from that, but the Fed is certainly not seeking out that pain. They are trying to sort of manage the best of a bunch of bad options.
 
VAUSE: Catherine so much, really appreciate the explanation and your insights and analysis with us.
 
RAMPELL: Thank you. Thank you.
 
VAUSE: Just a day after Vladimir Putin claimed he was ready for peace talks. Russian airstrikes across Ukraine have targeted residential areas, killing at least nine people. Ukrainian officials say this missile strike on a residential building in the city of Zaporizhzhia was one of six fight of the city deliberately targeted civilians, leaving at one dead and 34 hood.
 
For others in this apartment complex, it was a terrifyingly close call.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): This is what just happened to my home. Look. This is where we were sitting with my mom just now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: CNN senior international correspondent Ivan Watson has more now reporting in from his Zaporizhzhia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Even now at nighttime, you can see the destruction caused by what Ukrainian officials say was a Russian missile that hit these two nine-storey apartment buildings around midday here in Zaporizhzhia killing Ukrainian authorities say at least one person and wounding at least 32 more.
 
Now this city is located just about a half hour's drive from active front lines. And it has been pummeled in the past by Russian missiles and rockets that have hit apartment buildings here with deadly results. These buildings kind of face towards the southwest and that is in the direction of Russian occupied Ukrainian territory.
 
So, you can kind of come to the conclusion that this deadly projectile would have flown from that direction. We can hear at night now under cover of darkness. Some residents in some of the neighboring apartments that have been badly damaged, working in the dark, cleaning up rubble and shards of glass in what's left of their homes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We still keep this here. And my apartment is this kitchen, my parent's room and my room. When it happened I heard a loud explosion. I saw a fire and I covered my head.
 
WATSON: Pavel (ph) and Schorner (ph) taking me up to their apartment. They're right next to, I mean, they're part of the same building that was hit today. 
 
There's a crater right next door in the side of the building. Pavel (ph) says this does not scare him. Please give us more weapons. Imagine how terrifying how absolutely shocking it would have been if you were at home when this massive explosion took place blowing in all the windows of the kitchen. And then to see just less than a stone's throw away a huge crater in the side of your neighbor's building. And it leaves me with this question. What possible strategic military goal could there be to fight hire deadly long range missiles at people's homes. Ivan Watson, CNN, Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[01:20:10]
 
VAUSE: Sweden's parliament has approved a bill which would end 200 years of military neutrality and pave the way to join NATO. Both Sweden and Finland requested NATO membership last year after Russia invaded Ukraine, but applications must be approved by all 30 Member States. Turkey and Hungary have been the holdout so far, but they say they are ready to move forward on Finland's bid, but the Turkish president says Sweden has to expel what he calls terrorists from the Western being harbored by Sweden in charge Sweden tonight.
 
Just ahead, Boris Johnson still trying to shake off the party gate hangover.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BORIS JOHNSON, FORMER BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: I'm here to say to you hand on heart that I did not lie to the house.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: British embattled former Prime Minister facing a grilling in Parliament, that his political future hanging in the balance. Also ahead, TikTok CEO prepares to defend his business practices in the US. We'll break down the company's argument when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: The CEO TikTok expected to testify to U.S. lawmakers Thursday, growing push for a total ban on the app across the United States. His main argument is that TikTok or its parent company ByteDance are agent so the Chinese government, is good thing. Live at Hong Kong ,CNN's Anna Coren.
 
A lot of like 12-year olds around the United States will be disappointed if TikTok is banned. But mean the reality is that there is a law on the books in China that they had to turn over information should the Chinese government what? They have no choice.
 
ANNA COREN, CORRESNPONDENT: Well, the CEO of TikTok John will have to answer all those questions come 10:00 A Eastern, that's when he's expecting a harsh grilling from U.S. lawmakers as he faces his first congressional hearing over the video app potential national security risks.
 
The short form video app that is owned as you say by a Beijing based parent company ByteDance has recently been banned by various governments around the world on official government devices the U.S., U.K. European Parliament, various E.U. nations and New Zealand have enforced this ban.
 
But the CEO Shou Zi Chew, who has spent millions of dollars lobbying Capitol Hill says that poses no threat whatsoever and denying allegations that it colludes or has an improper relationship with the Chinese government. Let's take a listen to what he had to say a few days ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO LCIP)
 
SHOU ZI CHEW, TIKTOK CEO: Hi everyone, its Shou here. I'm the CEO of TikTok. I'm here in Washington DC today, some politicians has started talking about banning TikTok. Now this could take TikTok away from all 150 million of you. I'll be testifying before Congress later this week to share all that we're doing to protect Americans using the app and deliver on a mission to inspire creativity and to bring joy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP0
 <br>[01:25:04]
 
COREN: Now, John, TikTok collects roughly the same amount of data as Facebook or Twitter. But it's links with the Chinese government that has everyone worried at the FBI director as well as the head of the U.S. National Security Agency. They both said TikTok could be a valuable tool for China to shape public opinion in regards to elections, policymaking, even in the event of a potential war over Taiwan.
 
Now, the Biden administration says the only way for TikTok to continue operating in the U.S. is if its Chinese owners sell their stake in the company that is highly unlikely, according to analysts that we've spoken to, because the Chinese government views TikTok's technology as sensitive and critical to Chinese national interests.
 
Now since 2020, the Chinese government has taken steps to ensure that it can veto any sale by ByteDance.
 
In response to this potential U.S. ban, China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs last week said, quote, let me read it to you. The U.S. should stop spreading misinformation about data security, stop suppressing irrelevant companies, and provide an open fair, just a non- discriminatory environment for foreign business to invest and operate in the US.
 
Two dates, and I think we should mention this, there is no evidence that Beijing has used TikTok's data for intelligence or other purposes. But as we know, a deep mistrust between China and the U.S. and the awareness of Chinese espionage and those balloons has certainly heightened fears of what TikTok represents, John.
 
VAUSE: Riddle me this Batman. So the argument coming from, you know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in China is they want free and open access for companies like TikTok, then how do they justify banning Facebook, Twitter Pornhub, The Washington Post, New York Times, I mean this list just goes on and on and on and on. I mean, come on.
 
COREN: We'll put that question to my -- in today's briefing.
 
VAUSE: Please do. OK. Anna, thank you.
 
COREN: Thank you, John.
 
VAUSE: Anna Coren there.
 
VAUSE: Live in Hong Kong. Called the party gate hangover, which has now put Boris Johnson's political future in peril. For three hours Wednesday, British lawmakers grill the former prime minister over multiple alcohol fueled visits during COVID lockdowns under his watch. One of many scandals that led to disaster last year. And at Wednesday's hearing, Johnson tried his best head on heart to defend his actions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHNSON: I am here to say to you hand on heart that I did not lie to the house. When those statements were made, they were made in good faith and on the basis of what I honestly knew and believed. At the time, I apologize. I apologize for inadvertently misleading this house. But to say that I did it recklessly or deliberately is completely untrue, as the evidence shows.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: If the committee finds he in fact did lie about that partygate, it could mean a suspension for parliament, and most likely the end of his political career. Families who lost loved ones to COVID-19 say Johnson's testimony was a new low, he blamed everyone but himself.
 
Still to come here on CNN, Britain's Prince William making an unannounced trip to Poland, meeting British soldiers stationed near the Ukrainian border. Also, a vessel famous for finding shipwrecks tipped over in a Scottish shipyard coming up with some say cause a slip from its moorings.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:30:59]
 
VAUSE: Welcome back, everyone. I'm John Vause. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM.
 
The Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made a dangerous journey to the front lines in the war in eastern Ukraine meeting with troops in the Donbas area including those fighting in the crucial battle for Bakhmut.
 
He said it was distressing to see the extent of the destruction from Russia's relentless attacks. In Kharkiv, he handed out awards to soldiers, and said it was an honor to support those closest to the front lines.
 
This visit coming the same day Russia launched a wave of air strikes targeting civilians. Zelenskyy made clear, Ukraine would respond to what he calls Russian savagery (ph). 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): We will certainly respond to every blow of the occupiers on our cities. Today's Russian strikes in Zaporizhzhia, the nightly attack on the Kyiv region -- all Russian strikes -- will receive a military, political and legal response.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: At least nine people were killed, dozens wounded in the Russian strikes on the Kyiv region and Zaporizhzhia where residential buildings were targeted.
 
Meantime Britain's Prince William made a rare, unannounced trip to Poland. There he met with troops stationed (ph) in the Ukrainian- Polish border as well as refugees. 
 
CNN's Max Foster reports now from Warsaw. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: When you walk through Warsaw, you're almost as likely to hear a Ukrainian conversation as you are a Polish one. More than 10 million Ukrainians have crossed over the border to Poland with at least 1.5 million refugees still remaining here.
 
They've been fully integrated including access to public services such as hospitals and schools. If they can't find accommodation, local people take them in or they're given beds in centers like this one in a converted office block visited by the Prince of Wales. He said he wanted to come here to pay tribute to the inspiring humanity of the Polish people.
 
Under a media blackout, he also went to thank Polish and British troops working together in the southeast of the country. He recognized how they were supporting the people of the Ukraine and their freedom which he noted were also our freedoms.
 
WILLIAM, PRINCE OF WALES: They have a really job out here. And defending our freedoms is really important and over back home, everybody supports you. 
 
FOSTER: Words verging on the political but the royal family have been unequivocal in their support for Ukraine throughout.
 
On Thursday, Prince William lays a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier here in Warsaw and he meets with President Duda who in his words underline his continued support and gratitude to the Polish people.
 
Max Foster, CNN -- Warsaw, Poland.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: While the International Criminal Court has recently issued an arrest warrant for the Russian President Vladimir Putin, Washington is not saying if hypothetically they had the chance to do so, the Russian president will actually be arrested. 
 
Secretary of State Antony Blinken was asked that question point blank at a Senate hearing on Wednesday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): There's an arrest warrant for Putin by the ICC for kidnapping children in Ukraine and taken to Russia. That's pretty much it, right. 
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: That's right.
 
Yes.
 
GRAHAM: If Putin came to the United States for whatever reason, would we turn him over to the ICC.
 
BLINKEN: Well, I can't get ahead of that because, for example, look at the laws and (INAUDIBLE) you know we're not actually a party to the ICC so I don't want to engage in that hypothetical. 
 
GRAHAM: I would encourage you that if you -- if he came here, we should turn him over.
 
BLINKEN: I don't think he has any plans to travel here soon.
 
GRAHAM: Yes. Well, would you encourage our European allies to turn him over.
 
BLINKEN: I think that anyone who is a party to the court and has obligations should fulfill their obligations.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The Kremlin dismissed this first warrant which was issued by the ICC saying Russia does not recognize the court's jurisdiction but the court's top prosecutor believes Putin can still stand trial if he could ever be brought before the court.
 <br>[01:34:54]
 
VAUSE: Meantime the Russian Children's Rights commissioner says the court's accusations were baseless because according to her Russia is yet to receive a single request about any child forcibly deported from Ukraine. And she says if there are any such cases Russia will consider what's in the best interest of those children.
 
The commissioner herself is listed on the same arrest warrant as Putin as she says Moscow has placed 380 minors with Russian families. She says those children lived in institutions for a long time, don't have any close relatives and who actually want to be reunited with them, so she says.
 
Donald Trump's attorney Evan Corcoran is scheduled to testify Friday before a grand jury for they say classified found at Mar-a-Lago. The Justice Department contends Trump's interactions with Corcoran were part of a possible crime and Corcoran won't be covered by any attorney-client privilege.
 
Meantime a source tells CNN, the New York grand jury investigating alleged hush money which was paid to the adult film star Stormy Daniels will meet in the day ahead. 
 
CNN's Paula Reid filed this report on Wednesday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President.
 
PAULA REID, CNN CORRESPONDENT: As the legal drama surrounding former President Trump reaches a fever pitch, the waiting game continues in New York for a possible indictment. 
 
The Manhattan grand jury investigating a hush money scheme is not expected to reconvene until at least tomorrow, after they didn't meet today as was expected.
 
But preparations continue for any possible protests.
 
MAYOR ERIC ADAMS (D), NEW YORK CITY: There's a lot of speculation of the NYPD. They have deployment plans under all circumstances.
 
REID: Sources tell CNN that the behind the scene, the district attorney is taking a moment to regroup. One source telling CNN that the DA's office has suggested to an attorney for at least one witness that they might need to provide additional testimony.
 
And as the investigation nears its final stages, prosecutors are considering the historic nature of indicting a former president, an unprecedented move in U.S. history. 
 
Sources also tell CNN, Trump has celebrated a potential indictment as a boost for his 2024 White House campaign and also complained about how unfair it would be.
 
Trump has long denied any role in payments to silence the porn star about an alleged affair which he denied. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Mr. President, did you know about the $130,000 payment to Stormy Daniels?
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: No. No.
 
ROBERT COSTELLO, ATTORNEY: If they want to go after Donald Trump and they have solid evidence, so be it. But Michael Cohen is far from solid evidence.
 
REID: Attorney Robert Costello, attacking the credibility of Michael Cohen, a key witness for the prosecution whom Costello advised in the past.
 
MICHAEL COHEN, FORMER ATTORNEY FOR DONALD TRUMP: If in fact that I waived attorney-client privilege, I'd like to know when, how, where. I don't recall waiving anything.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: CNN's Paula Reid reporting there from New York.
 
We'll take a short break. But when we come back, as Lebanon's tanking economy hits a new low, hundreds protest outside parliament. That story and more when we return. 
 <br>[01:37:54]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: No word yet on how long it might take to right a ship that tipped over at a port in Edinburgh, Scotland. Officials say gale force winds dislodged the research vessel Petrel from dry dock on Wednesday leaving it at a 45 degree angle.
 
33 people were hurt in the incident. The 76 meters, 3,000-ton ship famous in recent years after discovering a number of long lost shipwrecks, see the irony. Petrel has been in long-term (INAUDIBLE) in 2020. 
 
The U.S. is warning a possible economic blowback should Uganda's anti- LGBTQ+ Bill becomes law. It now just needs the signature of the president. International human rights organizations are calling the bill draconian, appalling, oppressive. The European Union is quote, "deeply concerned", and they quoted the White House "this legislation goes against basic human rights".
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARINE JEAN PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The bill is one of the most extreme anti-LGBTQI+ laws in the world. Human rights are universal. No one should be attacked, imprisoned or killed simply because of who they are or whom they love.
 
VOLKER TURK, U.N. HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS: The passing of this discriminatory bill probably among the worst of its kind in the world is a deeply troubling development. If signed into law, it will render lesbian, gay and bisexual people in Uganda criminals simply for being who they are and for existing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The U.N. is warning the legislature will also undermine efforts to stop the spread of HIV. We have more details now from CNN's Larry Madowo. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Joyous singing in Uganda's parliament on Tuesday after lawmakers pass the sweeping anti-LGBTQ BILL.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our country will only have -- 
 
MADOWO: Same sex relations were already illegal in the conservative east African country would convict, risking a life sentence. Now, legislators have taken it one step further.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) 
 
MADOWO: Anyone who identifies as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or queer now faces up to 20 years in jail and the death penalty for quote aggravated homosexuality, a broad term used in the legislation to define same-sex intercourse with children or disabled people, rape or incest.
 
Supporting lawmakers saying the sim is to quote, "Protect our Christian, culture, and traditional family values".
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What we have done really is for the people of Uganda. It is beyond us as individuals. 
 
MADOWO: And some have tried to (INAUDIBLE) attitude towards the issue.
 
RACHER MAGOOLA, UGANDAN LAWMAKER: There is nothing so sweet and so good for a man more than a woman.
 
MADOWO: Only a few lawmakers disagreed.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I do not agreed with homosexuality in principle but I don't agree with criminalizing it. 
 
MADOWO: The United Nations called the law among the worst of its kind in the world. And it's a deeply troubling developments.
 
Human rights campaigners in Uganda have condemned the move calling it barbaric and unconstitutional. 
 
Ugandan rights activist vowing to fight back a human rights lawyer in comparison told CNN that quote, "This aggressive and draconian law, the most hatred and discrimination and institutionalized as a homophobia.
 
Homosexuality is illegal in more than 30 of Africa's 55 nations and Uganda's move is just the latest in a series of setbacks for LGBTQ+ right here in the continent. 
 
The legislation now waits for the Ugandan president's signature. 
 
YOWEN MUSEVERI, UGANDAN PRESIDENT: The homosexual are deviation from all the normal. 
 
MADOWO: And no one es expecting a surprise form him.
 
Larry Madowo, CNN,
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Lebanon's long running economic crisis reached a new low Wednesday.
 
The protesters gathered outside parliament in Beirut, furious over the deteriorating economic and political situation. (INAUDIBLE) by tear gas to try and clear the crowd. Customers at the (INAUDIBLE) bank police say was helped saving. 
 
The military personnel livid over the dwindling value of their pensions. Lebanon's national currency hit a record low Tuesday. Crowds set in place as the central bank Governor, now under investigation in Lebanon and Europe for allegedly embezzling millions of dollars in public funds.
 
And the Arab countries around the world have declared Thursday the start of the holy month of Ramadan. A month of fasting for observing Muslims from sun up to sun down.
 
The start of Ramadan is determined by the moon's movement beginning the day after a new crescent moon is spotted. Saudi Arabia and the UAE were the first to mark the occasion followed by other countries.
 <br>[01:44:51]
 
VAUSE: This year's preparations come as inflation and crippling economic slowdowns will affect some nations, some of those unsure of how they can afford to celebrate.
 
An urgent warning from the U.N. about an imminent global water crisis. Water access is already a very big problem because the U.N. report we saw Wednesday, water consumption has increased 1 percent every year, the last 40 years.
 
Two billion people do not currently have access to safe drinking. 3.6 billion has access to safely managed sanitation. Population growth, pollution, prolonged drought -- all fueled by climate change making this problem worst.
 
Here's the U.N. Secretary General.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL: Water is a human right and the common development denomination to shape a better future. But water is in deep trouble. 
 
You have reigning humanity's life blood (INAUDIBLE) over consumption and unsustainable use and evaporating gets through global issues. We have broken the water cycle, destroyed ecosystems and contaminated ground water.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The report says by 2050, the number of people in cities facing water scarcity predicted to nearly double up to 2.4 billion.
 
With Wall Street investment firms buying up remote farm land in the western United States, many are becoming increasingly concerned that banks will take advantage of coveted water rights, cashing in when drought forces water prices through the roof. 
 
CNN's Lucy Kafanov has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LUCY KAFANOV, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Cibola, Arizona is a place few are likely to have heard of. Home to some 300 people, this wind-swept community is a tiny oasis in the Sonoran Desert sustained by water from the Colorado River.
 
But this rural corner of the American West has caught the eye of East Coast investors. Much of this farm land now belongs to Greenstone, a subsidiary of the financial services conglomerate MassMutual.
 
So what does an investment firm want with farm land like this?
 
HOLLY IRWIN, LA PAZ COUNTY SUPERVISOR: They want it for the water. They wanted to make money, you know, off the water rights that are attached to the land.
 
KAFANOV: La Paz County supervisor Holly Irwin is fighting Greenstone's recent sale of Cibola water to a growing Phoenix suburb, more than 200 miles away. 
 
IRWIN: They make millions off of it, you know at the expense of what it's going to do to our communities in the future and the precedent is going to set. It's opening Pandora's Box and who is going to be the next one in line to roll the dice.
 
KAFANOV: A lawyer for Greenstone told CNN it's plan was subject to public review, approved and that they will have no impact on the potential of cities along the river to grow.
 
But it's not just happening in Arizona. Wall Street firms have been snapping up properties up and down the Colorado River, not so much for the land but rather for its precious water rights. With the growing interest in an increasingly scare natural resource, with investors betting big on a major pay off.
 
MATTHEW DISERIO, PRESIDENT, WATER ASSET MANAGEMENT: It's a trillion dollar market opportunity. 
 
KAFANOV: Matt Diserio is president of Water Asset Management, an investment firm headquartered in this New York City building which has also been buying water rights real estate along the Colorado River.
 
Diserio described its strategy in 2020 interview with institutional real estate and fintech (INAUDIBLE). 
 
DISERIO: Water we believe is the resource that is defining the 21st century much like oil defined the last century.
 
KAFANOV: The company did not respond to CNN's specific inquiries issuing a statement that said it was proud of its investments and will manage assets in a matter that contributes to solutions to water scarcity.
 
TRAVIS LNGENFELTER, MOHAVE COUNTY COMMISSIONER: They come out West, they purchase and pick up cheap rural, agricultural lands. They sit on it for a little while and then they're trying to sell the water.
 
KAFANOV: Mohave County commissioner Travis Lingenfelter says a number of large East Coast investment firms are trying to get in on the action. His is one of three Arizona counties that sued the federal government to block the Cibola water transfer.
 
LINGENFELTER: If they're coming after a portion of our only water supply on the river (INAUDIBLE) near our communities we have to fight it.
 
ANDY MUELLER, GENERAL MANAGER, COLORADO RIVER DISTRICT: They're drought profiteers. They're trying to suck the very life blood out of these communities for their own financial benefit.
 
KAFANOV: Andy Mueller is tasked with helping to protect Colorado's share of the river and says the full scale of the land purchases is difficult to track because investment firms use different names to disguise ownership.
 
MUELLER: It's a very unpopular move to come from New York and invest in real estate and irrigated agriculture with the intent to dry it up and watch this flow away. It's all about making money.
 
KAFANOV: Under a pilot program, the federal government had dedicated $125 million in drought relief funds to pay Colorado River farmers and ranchers to conserve water by not growing crops on their land, something former state senator Kerry Donovan worries investment firms will take advantage of.
 
KERRY DONOVAN, FORMER STATE SENATOR: That's right. Since you start to see this investment speculation needs outside land holders, get good dollars to grow nothing. And that's when we start to see farmland ranchers go away.
 <br>[01:49:50]
 
KAFANOV: Her efforts to strengthen the state's anti-speculation law failed leaving her and other ranchers worried about how Wall Street will influence their future.
 
DONOVAN: It's not their land. It's not their legacy. It's their bottom line. And by law they're responsible to make money for their clients.
 
My family brand is on the barn behind me. This is my family brand. It's our legacy. We work to keep it this way. That's a totally different mentality than a New York investment firm.
 
KAFANOV: Lucy Kafanov, CNN -- western Colorado.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: A rare tornado has been spotted near Los Angeles. The National Weather Service says it touched down Wednesday in the city of Marbello (ph). 
 
One person was hurt, more than a dozen buildings were damaged, some losing their roof and according to some the buildings at the time were shaking so badly because of the intense winds, it felt like an earthquake.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It tore the roof off. Holy -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: It's the strongest tornado to hit the city in 40 years. This is so rare in California (INAUDIBLE) the second one in the state in as many days. 
 
Still ahead, a death and a rebirth, model Gisele Bundchen opens up about her divorce from football star Tom Brady.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: That is believed to be the world's first launch of a 3D printed rocket. Terra 1 (ph) blasted off from Cape Canaveral, in Florida Wednesday night. Engine failure though shortly after launch meant the vehicle failed to reach orbit. The rocket was powered by super chilled methane and oxygen. And the company behind the launch says, there is a mark (INAUDIBLE).
 
Gisele Bundchen is opening about the end of her marriage to American football star Tom Brady, comparing it to a death and rebirth. Appearing in "Vanity Fair" magazine, the fashion model says media reports she wanted the divorce because Brady back out of retirement to play football again just are not true.
 
Bundchen says, "When I was 26 years old and he was 29 years old, we met, we wanted a family, we wanted things together. As time goes by, we realized that we just wanted different things. Now we have a choice to make. That doesn't mean you don't love the person. To be authentic and truly live the life the you want to live, you have to have some thing who can meet you in the middle. 
 
Somebody (ph) announced last year, they are divorcing after 13 years of marriage.
 
The judge in a defamation case brought by Dominion voting systems against Fox News may force Fox chairman Rupert Murdoch to testify. 
 
The judge signaled Wednesday that he's interested to hear more about the duty that Fox (INAUDIBLE) like Murdoch might have to stop known lies from going on air. That's an interesting one.
 
CNN's Jessica Schneider has more now reporting in from Washington.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A Delaware judge now weighing whether the $1.6 billion defamation case against Fox News could go to a jury trial
 
RUPERT MURDOCH, CHAIRMAN, FOXCORP: It's my distinct honor to introduce the commander in chief and the President of the United States, my friend Donald J. Trump.
 
SCHNEIDER: And that Fox Corporation chairman Rupert Murdoch to be called to testify. Delaware's superior court judge Eric Davis told lawyers Wednesday, "He holds a special role at Fox Corporation that he may be able to be compelled to be here." 
 <br>[01:54:51]
 
SCHNEIDER: Lawyers for Dominion Voting Systems have already asked the court to let them call Rupert Murdoch and his CEO son Lachlan if the case goes to trial next month. Fox is resisting the effort saying the Murdochs have limited knowledge of how Fox News made editorial decisions and wouldn't be burdened by having to appear in person.
 
The judge said it is possible they could appear over video conferencing if called. Both have already given depositions in the case with Rupert Murdoch acknowledging some Fox News host endorsed election conspiracy theories and then saying I would have liked us to be stronger in denouncing it in hind sight.
 
In the days after the 2020 election, Fox News repeatedly featured guests like Sidney Powell.
 
SIDNEY POWELL, FORMER TRUMP ATTORNEY: It is one huge, huge criminal conspiracy. 
 
SCHNEIDER: She and others accused Dominion of using its machines and software to rig the 2020 election. Fox News says it can't be liable for airing inherently newsworthy allegations from public figures like Powell and Trump's former attorney Rudy Giuliani.
 
Judge Eric Davis questioned the Fox lawyer asking if top executives have the power to block the network's hosts from booking pro-Trump attorneys that they knew would promote false claims about Dominion.
 
Fox's lawyer said that even if the Murdochs or other executives were aware of the bookings, they can't be held liable because they weren't directly involved in the decision making to put the guests on shows.
 
It's not enough to show that these executives had the ability to step in, Fox lawyer Erin Murphy argued. She also said the Murdochs and other top executives don't control what goes on the air.
 
But Rupert Murdoch in his deposition, acknowledged that he could have stopped Trump's legal team which peddled election lies from appearing on the network's air but didn't.
 
It's now in the judge's hands to decide if this case goes to trial or if the facts are so clear cut that he can automatically rule for either Dominion or Fox News without going to a trial.
 
Jessica Schneider, CNN -- Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Speaking of giant Australian spiders, a rare species of another one has been found living in Queensland, Australia. Researches say it needs protection. They named it Euplos dignitas, meaning dignity or greatness in Latin.
 
It's not the golden trapdoor spider that was first discovered in the early 20th century but it was never fully described or named, like a research. Much of its natural habitat is being cleared for agriculture and it's unclear how many of these species there actually are.
 
I'm John Vause. Thank you for watching CNN NEWSROOM.
 
Stay with us Kristie Lu Stout takes over in Hong Kong in just a moment.
 
Hope to see you right back here tomorrow.
 <br>[01:57:23]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)