Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Experts Say Missing Sub May Lose Breathable Air Soon; Tensions Soar Between Israelis And Palestinians; Zelenskyy Says Ukraine Needs Action, Not Just Pledges; Biden Makes Comments Comparing Chinese Leader Xi Jinping To Dictators; Large Fire Breaks Out In Central Paris. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired June 21, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello everyone, I'm Zain Asher and this is ONE WORLD. There's cautious hope today after sonar equipment picked 
 
 up banging sounds from the remote waters of the North Atlantic Ocean. International crews are scouring the area for missing tourist submersible 
 
 with five people on board. Stockton Rush, the CEO of the expedition company OceanGate is among the missing. French diver Paul-Henry Nargeolet, British 
 
 businessman Hamish Harding and Pakistani billionaire Shahzada Dawood and his son Suleman Dawood are also on the vessel, as well. 
 
Time is running out to find them. Experts say the sub may have less than a day's worth of breathable air left. It's not entirely clear if the sounds 
 
 picked up on Tuesday are coming from the submersible and obviously that is the hope. But the U.S., Canada and France have relocated resources to 
 
 determine the source of the noise. 
 
Let's get the very latest for our Miguel Marquez in St. John's in Newfoundland, Canada. Miguel, thank you so much for being with us. So, just 
 
 in terms of the sounds that were heard here, just explain to us how that is allowing rescue crews to really try to narrow the search area? 
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so Poseidon plane is the sub-hunting plane, dropped buoys into the water yesterday. 
 
 They picked up for it for about a period of four hours or so. They picked up every half hour, that banging sound. So, it's a regular sound, it caught 
 
 their attention. They hoped that they were on to something. 
 
Another plane dropped buoys in a different location, also picked up sounds. Eventually the banging stopped, they heard other sounds, they couldn't tell 
 
 quite what they were. But, that gave them enough information to move surface ships over to the area where they were hearing those sounds. They 
 
 put a remote operated vehicle down to where they thought the sounds were coming from and they came up with nothing, sadly. 
 
But they are, they have done a couple of things. They have given the U.S. Navy that data, the sonar data, so that they can study it and try to figure 
 
 out perhaps what exactly it was. There are -- there is a lot of shipping and other things happening in that area. And then they have moved even more 
 
 ships into the area. There are three ships now doing side sonar. 
 
So, sending sonar signals down to the bottom of the ocean, and trying to get a visual sense of what is down there, so they can see whether or not 
 
 that capsule, the sub, the Titan, is on the bottom there and they can get a better fix on its location. 
 
Meanwhile there is just a ton of gear, both in the air, and by the sea. There's eight ships either on the way or already in the area. So, if they 
 
 can find that capsule, they can get, hopefully, rescue gear down to it and pull it up. Hopefully, hopefully, save the people who are on it. Zain. 
 
ASHER: I mean that is the hope. Miguel Marquez, live for us there. Thank you so much. All right, safety concerns that were raised years ago about 
 
 Titan, that's the submersible, are resurfacing. According to "The New York Times", back in 2018, the Marine Technology Society expressed concerns 
 
 about what they called OceanGate experimental approach. Meantime, CBS' David Pogue toured the vessel last year, and had this to say about his 
 
 experience. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID POGUE, SCIENCE WRITER AND CBS "SUNDAY MORNING" CORRESPONDENT: Before we went, we had never seen the sub. We didn't know anything about it, 
 
 there's very little information on the website, just that it's a state-of- the-art, one-of-a-kind, carbon-fiber submersible. I did know at that point that you drive the thing with an Xbox game controller. I did know that the 
 
 balance was, you know, used construction pipes. 
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
You just -- you get there, and then you start seeing the stuff. And now your -- your roof crashes, you get a little worried, like, is this the 
 
 level of polish and sophistication that we're talking about? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Let's bring in Tom Foreman, standing by for us in Washington, D.C. So, Tom, OceanGate expeditions have only been offering tour of the titanic 
 
 wreckage since 2021. In that short timeframe, right, we're talking a year, a year and a half, how many concerns and complaints have there been about 
 
 safety? 
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think the real key here has been the concerns that were raised before that time. And that other people have 
 
 echoed through that time and then the answer is, several. I don't have an exact count on it, but numerous people, and particular people who know 
 
 about this business have raised concerns. 
 
The fundamental question being raised by these industry groups out there, and from some people who work for this company, was that they felt the 
 
 company might be bypassing a lot of the basic standards and testing for safety. Here's an example of what we're talking about. 
 
For engineering, there are standards for the qualification of a vessel that would go this low in the water. And those standards are going to not say, 
 
 you need to test it to withstand that pressure. You would most likely have to test it, I don't know the exact specs for this, but probably three to 
 
 four, to five, to six times as much pressure as it's going to encounter. You don't just test it for where it's going, you test it for much, much 
 
 more. 
 
And after you have done that, you then have to really, strongly refurbish the tested vessel to make sure there was not damage from all of that. Or, 
 
 you have to entirely rebuild it, following the same specs, and then test it to your regular pressure, to make sure everything is working. 
 
These concerns, raised by the industry suggest that some version of that was not happening or may not have been happening, or was not being 
 
 publicized to people outside. The result is, I think, these are gonna be some of the really key questions that are asked, whether this is found or 
 
 not. How did this go wrong? Was there something fundamentally wrong with the operation or the construction of this submersible? And did that lead us 
 
 to where we are right now? Zain. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, lot of people have concerns and obviously our thoughts and prayers are that this submersible vessel is found --
 
FOREMAN: Absolutely.
 
ASHER: -- within the next few hours. Tom Foreman, live for us there. Thank you so much. 
 
FOREMAN: Thank you.
 
ASHER: All right, coming up later this hour, we're gonna take a closer look at those who are on board the missing submersible, as well. A new cycle of 
 
 deadly violence is erupting in the occupied West Bank as tensions soar between Israelis and the Palestinians. The Palestinian Health Ministry says 
 
 one man was killed today, and hundreds of Israeli settlers set fire to cars and homes. The village mayor says that many were masked, and carried guns. 
 
Overnight, Israeli settlers attacked several Palestinian towns, burning farm fields and vehicles, injuring dozens of villages. The violence was 
 
 sparked by West Bank attack that left four Israeli settlers dead on Tuesday. Two gunman later claimed by the militant group Hamas carried out 
 
 the attack. It came one day after Israeli forces raided Jenin in search of two wanted suspects. Several Palestinians were killed. 
 
Hadas Gold joins us live now from Jerusalem. So, Hadas, of course, we had the Jenin raid earlier this week. We then had the four Israelis that were 
 
 killed, and now settlers who are setting fire to cars, and homes. It's been quite a week. Just set the scene for us in terms of what is happening now. 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, it has been a very worrying week, it doesn't appear to be evading anytime soon. Just as you noted, this 
 
 started Monday. With that raid in Jenin, where we saw new use of weaponry, both from the militants using roadside, very powerful IED bombs. And then 
 
 the Israeli military using an Apache helicopter for the first time in decades to provide gun cover for their soldiers while they're being 
 
 extracted from disabled army vehicles. 
 
And the attack that left those four Israelis dead, and four others injured outside of an Israeli settlement in the occupied West Bank, at a gas 
 
 station sort of restaurant, that was claimed by Hamas militants, who said that was in direct response to what happened in Jenin. And then we had 
 
 hundreds of settlers going through Palestinian villages, which is again being seen as sort of revenge attacks to what happened at the restaurant, 
 
 and at the gas station. 
 
We are hearing from police, just in the last few minutes, that actually that man that was killed today, the Israeli Police say that it was one of 
 
 their officers who shot and killed that man. They claim that the man was with a group who were shooting things like fireworks towards police, and 
 
 firefighters who were working in the area as the settlers were rampaging through these villages. 
 
We actually visited the site today of the attack where those four Israelis were killed. And just up the road, from just a minute or two up the road, 
 
 we went and saw just dozens of vehicles that had been completely burned to a crisp, as well as Palestinian villagers' homes that had been attacked by 
 
 settlers. 
 <br>[12:10:00] And we spoke to some locals there about what's been happening. Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD: The attack started here at this hummus restaurant that's part of a gas station complex just outside the borders of the Eli settlement in the 
 
 occupied West Bank. The attackers came to this restaurant, shooting through to the restaurant, killing the first of the three victims including two 
 
 teenagers. The fourth victim was killed at the gas station that's just in front of us. 
 
Israeli officials saying that another four people were injured and saying it was the work of two Hamas operatives who came here in a car. The first 
 
 of the gunman was shot and killed by an armed civilian, who happen to be onsite, and the second gunman managed to get away, steal a car. That 
 
 triggered an hours-long manhunt by Israeli forces before he was cornered, and shot and killed, as well, just north of here. 
 
But here at the scene, we are still seeing evidence of the bloody scene from the night before. We are seeing bullet casings on the ground, medical 
 
 gloves, medical equipment, as well as bloodstains. And here on the restaurant itself, you can still see it is riddled with bullet holes, 
 
 including this one bullet hole that managed to make its way through and smashed this window. The mayor of the settlement, Ari Elmaliach, said they 
 
 want the Israeli government and army to take greater action now. 
 
ARI ELMALIACH, MAYOR OF ELI: In the last 15, 20 years, nothing happened here, nothing, nothing. This gas station, Arabs, Jewish, everyone come to 
 
 buy here, to buy from the Sogu, to buy from the Hummus. Everybody is here. 
 
GOLD: Just up the road, villager Naza Awaiz (ph) says she also hasn't seen violence like this in decades. Her house was damaged during the ensuing 
 
 Israeli settler attacks. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): We felt last night danger, which we couldn't describe, terrified like during the days of the second Intifada, which was 
 
 the last time our house was attacked. 
 
GOLD: Hours after those attacks on the gas station and restaurant that killed those four Israelis, Israeli settlers rampaged through Palestinian 
 
 villages like this one of Luban Ashakria (ph) burning as you can see dozens of cars, parts of these cars just come completely melting off. In fact, 
 
 right here at the morning after, and there is still smoke smoldering from the fires. 
 
We've been speaking to villagers here that say their homes were damaged. Palestinian officials say that at least 37 Palestinians were injured, 
 
 mostly as a result of stone-throwing. Villagers were talking to here saying they haven't seen violence like this against their property, against their 
 
 homes since the days of the Second Intifada and that they now live in fear of what can come. 
 
There's now a big push, especially on the right wing of the Israeli political spectrum and the right wing of this current government for a much 
 
 bigger and broader military operation in the occupied West Bank than what we've seen in the past. That could lead people here fear to even more 
 
 violence. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD (on-camera): Now, excuse me, in a statement, the IDF said that they condemn the serious incidents of violence and destruction of property. 
 
 Benjamin Netanyahu, the Prime Minister, also saying that all citizens of Israel are obligated to obey the law and that they will not allow 
 
 disturbances. But the big question now is whether the pressure from the right flank of this government and whether the pressure from some in this 
 
 security establishment for a much broader and bigger Israeli military operation, whether that will be carried out. 
 
Because right now, although we are seeing pretty daily Israeli military raid, they are pretty confined usually to one sort of area. But now, there 
 
 are calls from people like National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Ghivir for something much bigger and much broader. Zain.
 
ASHER: All right, Hadas Gold, live for us there, thank you. A teenage girl is among the latest victims caught in the crossfire amid the escalating 
 
 violence in the West Bank. The 15-year-old was shot Monday in an Israeli incursion into Jenin. The Palestinian Ministry of Health says that she died 
 
 from her injuries. A moving video of the funeral procession shows her classmates, her classmates carrying her body draped in a Palestinian flag 
 
 and the school uniform, as well. They passed by her school in Jenin.
 
Ukraine says the main strike of its counteroffensive is still ahead. But Western allies in London today are turning their attention to what comes 
 
 after Russia's war, which of course, by the way, now is in its second year. 
 
At the Ukraine Recovery Conference, Britain pledged to provide guarantees for $3 billion worth of World Bank loans to help rebuild Ukraine's 
 
 shattered economy. And the U.S. Secretary of State promised more than $1 billion in financial assistance, vowing that America will stand by Kyiv for 
 
 as long as it takes. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: As Russia continues to destroy, we are here to help Ukraine rebuild. 
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
Rebuild lives. Rebuild its country. Rebuild its future. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: But Volodymyr Zelenskyy who addressed the delegates by video, says that his country needs action, not just pledges. Separately, in an 
 
 interview with the BBC, the Ukrainian President acknowledged that his forces are facing difficulties on the battlefield. And he said Kyiv hopes 
 
 to, quote, make bigger steps into its counteroffensive. But he also warned that Ukraine won't be pressured into speeding it up because lives are at 
 
 stake. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen joins us live now from Kyiv. So, Fred, we always knew that that this counteroffensive was going to be slow, it was going to be 
 
 incremental. But were the Ukrainians prepared for the level of fierce resistance that we are seeing from the Russians right now? 
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think that the Ukrainians were prepared to face some pretty stiff resistance from 
 
 the Russians, but they do acknowledge that the resistance that they are facing is one that's making it very tough for them to move forward. And I 
 
 think that there are certain elements about it that really make it hard for the Ukrainians to make good on some of that ground. 
 
One of the things they've been trying to do, Zain, over the past couple of weeks really, but especially over the past couple of days, is punch holes 
 
 into those rich, big Russian defense lines, especially in the south of the country. And that's something that's proven to be very difficult. 
 
So, one of the things that you're seeing there right now is the Ukrainians making less progress at the moment than they had for instance, it's been a 
 
 couple of days ago. Nevertheless, the Ukrainians are saying that they are having partial success. They say that they are entrenching the positions 
 
 that they have won back because, of course, some of the places that the Ukrainians took from the Russians, the Russians would then blanket with 
 
 artillery and try to move back in there. 
 
So, the Ukrainians are trained saying that they're trying to solidify some of those gains as they're also trying to move forward and trying to move 
 
 forward towards the South, towards the Sea of Azov which is their ultimate goal to be able to cut the Russians off from their land corridor to Crimea. 
 
One of the things that we've learned, Zain, that is extremely difficult for the Ukrainians and which we hear on the battlefield, but we hear also when 
 
 we're here in Kyiv, as well, is Russian air power. They say that Russian air power around the frontlines is very strong. It's often keeping the jets 
 
 of the Ukrainians, which are much older than the ones from the Russians, from actually operating in those areas because the Russians have 
 
 interceptor planes that can shoot very far. 
 
They have very powerful missiles, very powerful radars, as well, but also on the front lines. The Russians are using attack helicopters right now 
 
 fairly efficiently and then also using drones to spot Ukrainian formations and then trying to take those out with artillery. So, all of that is making 
 
 it extremely difficult for the Ukrainians. 
 
But what we've seen on the front lines is the Ukrainians still in very good spirits. The Ukrainians still saying they believe that this counter-
 
 offensive is something that can be a success and that they are going to continue to take ground. 
 
And so, one of the things that we also looked at, which you just mentioned, I think is very important is Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the President of this 
 
 country, coming out today in that same interview with the BBC and saying, look, these are people at work here. This is not some sort of Hollywood 
 
 movie and therefore, the Ukrainians are saying they are not going to be pressured into moving any faster. 
 
And certainly by the looks of it, if you look at some of the comments that have been coming in from the U.S. but of other countries, as well, it 
 
 certainly doesn't look like the international partners are trying to pressure the Ukrainians. The Russians, for their part, however, are saying 
 
 that they've been successfully repelling the counteroffensive by the Ukrainians. In fact, the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, he came out 
 
 earlier today, and he said that he sees a sort of lull, if you will, in the offensive operations from the Ukrainians because they've been taking such 
 
 high losses. 
 
So, certainly different perspectives, depending on where people stand in this war. But right now, the Ukrainians, while they're going, is pretty 
 
 tough. They still seem to be in pretty good spirits. Zain.
 
ASHER: All right, Fred Pleitgen, live for us there. Thank you. Joe Biden may have just undone the work of his top diplomat. At a fundraiser Tuesday 
 
 night, the U.S. President compared Chinese President Xi Jinping to a dictator. China's foreign ministry fired back with angry words of 
 
 condemnation. And Russia even jumped into the fray, saying the comment shows the unpredictability of U.S. foreign policy. Our Kristie Lu Stout has 
 
 more. 
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN ANCHOR: On the back of a high-level visit aimed at easing tensions with China, U.S. President Joe Biden made comments 
 
 comparing Chinese leader Xi Jinping to dictators. And those comments did not go down well in Beijing. China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs called 
 
 him, quote, extremely absurd and irresponsible. 
 
Biden made the remarks at a fundraiser in California on Tuesday. He said Xi was embarrassed when the U.S. shot down a Chinese spy balloon earlier this 
 
 year, an observation he also made on Friday ahead of U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken's trip to China. But Biden added this, quote, that's 
 
 what's a great embarrassment for dictators when they didn't know what happened. 
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
At a regular press conference on Wednesday, China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Mao Ning said this, quote, the remarks are seriously 
 
 contradicted with basic facts, seriously violating diplomatic etiquette and seriously infringing on China's political dignity. 
 
On Monday, Blinken and Xi agreed to stabilize the fraught U.S.-China relationship. Xi welcomed, quote, progress during Blinken's two-day visit 
 
 to China, and Blinken raised the need to reestablish direct military-to- military communications to reduce the risk of miscalculation, but China refused to do so, citing U.S. sanctions. 
 
Blinken also said he did not receive a commitment from China to push back against North Korean weapons testing. The two powers also remain at odds 
 
 over a full slate of issues from trade to Taiwan. 
 
Now, Blinken's visit appeared to lay the groundwork for more high-level meetings. On Tuesday, the White House said it's too early to speculate on a 
 
 Biden-Xi meeting on the sidelines at the G20 in New Delhi later this year. The White House says a potential meeting, quote, will happen, and it will 
 
 happen at the appropriate time, unquote. But in light of recent comments, that appropriate time is even more unclear. Kristie Lu Stout, CNN, Hong 
 
 Kong. 
 
ASHER: All right, some news just coming in to CNN. We're hearing about a large fire in central Paris following a gas explosion. Sixteen people have 
 
 been injured, several of them, critically. A CNN producer in Paris says over five teams of firefighters are on the scene right now. Police are 
 
 urging people to avoid the 5th arrondissement close to Rue Saint-Jacques. 
 
All right, coming up, self-proclaimed misogynist Andrew Tate and his brother appear in a Romanian court on charges of human trafficking and 
 
 rape. What he told reporters, next. I
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: Welcome back. As we mentioned before the break, it appears that a very large fire, large fire has broken out in central Paris. This is the 
 
 5th arrondissement. It appears to be the result of a gas explosion. We know that more than a dozen people are injured, at least seven people with 
 
 critical injuries. Witnesses say that over five teams of firefighters are on the scene right now. 
 
Once again, a large fire has broken out in central Paris in the 5th arrondissement, the result of a likely gas explosion. I want to bring in 
 
 Melissa Bell, joining us from Paris via phone. 
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
Melissa, at this point, what more do we know? 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (via phone): Just those very dramatic pictures that you can see, Zain, coming from Paris' left bank. It's the 
 
 fifth arrondissement and of course, a music festival here in Paris. There have been lots of people milling around. It's very quiet. It's the Latin 
 
 Quarter. And those pictures that you see of the smoke, what we understand has happened is that very large explosion with people, eyewitnesses saying 
 
 they heard a huge explosion like nothing they'd heard before. 
 
And then, according to the mayor of that particular part of Paris, several buildings caught fire. And as we understand it continued to burn seven 
 
 people in critical condition, but others wounded, as well. As I say, it's really hot in Paris, there will have been a lot of people milling about 
 
 very dramatic pictures there from the center of Paris. 
 
At the time being, we have no confirmation, Zain, of what caused the initial explosion and that building to collapse as we understand that its 
 
 entire facade at the building right next to a major hospital in Paris demolished. For now, the speculation is that it may have been a gas 
 
 explosion, although we have yet to hear officially whether that is the case. 
 
ASHER: All right, so there has been a building that has collapsed as a result of this large fire. As you point out, we don't necessarily know the 
 
 exact cause. There's been no confirmation as of yet, but we suspect that it is a gas explosion and that once again, sixteen people or so injured as a 
 
 result of this large fire in the 5th arrondissement in central Paris. Melissa Bell, live for us there. Thank you so much. 
 
A Romanian judge has adjourned the case of online influencer Andrew Tate and his brother. The men appeared in court earlier, charged with human 
 
 trafficking and rape. The judge was expected to set a trial date. The pair, along with two Romanian women, have been charged with human trafficking, 
 
 rape and setting up a criminal gang. Here's what Andrew Tate said to reporters after his hearing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDREW TATE, SOCIAL MEDIA INFLUENCER: I would like to say a massive thank you to all the supporters we have around the world, regardless of what the 
 
 mainstream media keeps saying and the lies they try and report. We get tens of thousands of messages from people every single day supporting us and 
 
 they understand that we're not the first affluent, wealthy men who have been unfairly attacked in our situation. Unfortunately, it happens quite 
 
 often. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: The Tate brothers are no strangers to controversy. CNN's Salma Abdelaziz has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TATE: I do believe, if I had to predict the future, that they will charge me. 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN REPORTER (voice-over): Another chapter in the saga of devisive social media influencer, Andrew Tate. Now, he, his brother and two 
 
 female Romanian citizens have been indicted in Romania. Prosecutors say the charges are human trafficking, rape and setting up a criminal gang. The 
 
 Tate brothers and the women have under house arrest during the criminal investigation for alleged abuses against seven women. Accusations, they 
 
 have denied. But who is this self-proclaimed misogynist? 
 
Back in 2016, Andre Tate found his first claim to notoriety when he was removed from the British reality TV Show "Big Brother" with no public 
 
 reason given.
 
TATE: You learn a lot more by being quiet. 
 
ABDELAZIZ: In the year since, Tate turned his attention to online creation where he shot to internet fame, racking up to at least 11.6 billion in 
 
 views on TikTok, mostly for his views on masculinity, gender roles and wealth.
 
TATE: I don't think the world has ever been equal. I'm saying That the modern society we live in has been built by men. All the roads you see, all 
 
 the buildings you see, everything around you, men built. 
 
ABDELAZIZ: Like this video, where the former kickboxer speaks about his version of so-called equality. 
 
TATE: You had a completely different role. 
 
ABDELAZIZ: Tate's rhetoric prompted concern from critics about his influence on teenage boys, before being suspended by most major social 
 
 media networks last August for violating their policies. Controversies around Tate and his brother slowly became a legal issue, as Romanian 
 
 prosecutors pursued claims of human trafficking and rape. Just before his December arrest, Tate became embroiled in a Twitter spat with Swedish 
 
 climate activist Greta Thunberg over his car's emission.
 
TATE: I'm not actually mad at Greta. Please bring me pizza and make sure that these boxes are not recycled.
 
 ABDULAZIZ: Now, as the brothers await trial, Tate's Twitter has since been reinstated with more than 6.9 million followers reading his every word. 
 
 Commentators wonder whether it may take more than a clever tweet to change tide. Salma Abdelaziz, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Not only is the search for the missing submersible far out in the Atlantic, it's also far down beneath the surface of the ocean. Coming up, 
 
 just how deep the search area is and how difficult it is to navigate. And later he's known for eating the strangest foods, but one celebrity chef is 
 
 now turning his attention to protecting vulnerable crops from climate change. He tells his story, coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: Hello and welcome back to ONE WORLD. Let's catch up on the headlines. Banging sounds picked up by sonar devices are offering new hope 
 
 as rescue crews scour the North Atlantic for the missing Titanic submersible. Time of course is running out. The U.S. Coast Guard says the 
 
 five people aboard the Titan could have only a day's worth of oxygen left inside the vessel. Here's a look at just how far down the Titanic wreckage 
 
 actually is. It's basically the same distance down as it is to the top of Mount Fuji and twice as deep as the Grand Canyon. And on the way down, it 
 
 is cold and of course, very, very dark. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AARON NEWMAN, FORMER SUBMERSIBLE PASSENGER: And as you start to descend through the water column, it is an amazing journey to see the light very 
 
 quickly disappear and within five, ten minutes, you're in pitch dark, complete dark, you know, and you have the lights from the sub, right? You 
 
 have the lights from the submersible that you can see outside and internally, but without those your light is gone at any depth below a 
 
 couple hundred meters. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: The Titanic submersible is small, only five people can fit inside and the price for those spots, certainly not cheap. Melissa Bell takes a 
 
 look at the five men trapped on the sub. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAUL-HENRI NARGEOLET, FRENCH DIVER (through translator): The 24th of July 1987 was my first dive to the Titanic with two team members and it was an 
 
 unforgettable moment. We had been waiting a long time. 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): That's Paul-Henri Nargeolet. The 77-year-old Frenchman has made more than 30 dives to the Titanic, 
 
 earning him the nickname, Mr. Titanic. David Gallo is Nargeolet's close friend, colleague and an oceanographer himself. 
 
DAVID GALLO, DEEP SEA EXPLORER: I'm sure he did everything he could or would do everything he could do to make sure that they had every chance of 
 
 surviving whatever it was. 
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
BELL: It's difficult to imagine what it must be like inside that tiny craft. What kind of leadership, calm character would he bring to that 
 
 situation?
 
GALLO: He thinks outside the box all the time. That's the kind of guy you want on the scene when things like this happen. The wisdom that guy has is 
 
 pretty amazing. It's just now sinking in that this is not something that will be gone tomorrow. It's something that could be forever. 
 
BELL: For Stockton Rush, the Chief Executive of the firm behind the dive, who's also on board the experience of those involved has always been 
 
 crucial. 
 
STOCKTON RUSH, CEO AND FOUNDER, OCEANGATE: There are five individuals can go on each dive. Three of those are what we call mission specialists. So 
 
 those are the folks who help finance the mission. But they are also active participants. So, why we are not a fan of the tourist term is because these 
 
 are crew members.
 
BELL: One of those crew members is the British billionaire and explorer Hamish Harding. He was part of two record-breaking trips to the South Pole 
 
 and achieved a world record for the fastest circumnavigation of the globe via boat polls. Last year, he went into space with Jeff Bezos' Blue Origin 
 
 company. 
 
HAMISH HARDING, BRITISH BILLIONAIRE AND EXPLORER: I've always wanted to do this and the sheer experience of looking out of the window is something I'm 
 
 looking forward to. 
 
BELL: In a post on social media over the weekend, he described feeling proud to be part of the Titans expedition. Also on board, Shazada Dawood 
 
 who comes from one of Pakistan's richest family and lives in the United Kingdom with his wife and two children. He'd taken his son Suleman, 
 
 reportedly just 19 years old, along with him. 
 
The family now asking for prayers for their safety and privacy for the family, as the race to find the men enters a critical phase. Melissa Bell, 
 
 CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Let's bring in Deep Sea Explorer David Gallo who we just saw in Melissa Bell's piece there. David, obviously, your friend, Paul-Henri 
 
 Nargeolet is on this sub. I mean, how are you doing as you hear all the news out of this?
 
DAVID GALLO, DEEP SEA EXPLORER: Oh, well, it's difficult, of course, because first of all, this is the kind of thing that I am interested in is 
 
 helping to find things like this. And normally, I would be here with PH, largely Mr. Titanic on this side of the computer, trying to understand what 
 
 we could do to help the other families of the -- and help find this submarine safely. 
 
At this time, he's on the other side and it's just to come to grips with that. But I have to say he's a very loved person, you know, and I'm not the 
 
 only person that just loved the guy, but he has a whole family of people in the company, RMS Titanic Inc. that are very attached to PH and this is very 
 
 tough for all of them. 
 
ASHER: And what was your reaction when you heard about the banging sounds? I mean, it gave me so much hope. I mean, this is a story I don't even know 
 
 any of the members who are on board that submarine personally, but it gave me so much hope to hear about the banging sounds because, of course, anyone 
 
 who has any experience, as Paul-Henri Nargeolet does, knows that you're supposed to bang every 30 minutes for three minutes on the half hour 
 
 intervals. 
 
And that is a sign for, you know, sonar technology to pick up that there's activity in the vessel. Your reaction to hearing the banging sounds, I mean 
 
 how hopeful are you at this point? 
 
GALLO: I was hoping rapidly before I left early late yesterday and just thinking this was fate and then I heard about the -- someone called me up 
 
 and said they're banging and my hopes went right through the roof, skyrocketed. Then I remembered that on Air France 447, Malaysian Air 370, 
 
 we had similar situations where we thought we heard sounds of the plane, the pinger on the plane or in the case the Malaysian Air, same thing. And 
 
 it turned out to be not true, but so then I thought I would poke into this and find out how credible this report was and it's very credible. 
 
So, I'm hoping that they've already located the rough area where the sounds are coming from. And then they probably can't analyze what they are, but 
 
 where they are to begin with, and then start moving equipment in that direction, assuming that is, in fact, the sub because there's no time right 
 
 now to sit back and think about is it or isn't it. They've got to assume that it is. 
 
ASHER: So, what is the strategy here in terms of narrowing down? I mean, from what I read, they have searched an area, the size of Massachusetts. 
 
 Now, that you've heard the banging sounds and you've heard them in the intervals that you would imagine would be coming from the sub, what's the 
 
 strategy in terms of narrowing down the area where this sub could be at this point? And does the banging sound tell us about anything about whether 
 
 it's close to the ocean surface at this point or not? 
 <br>[12:40:00]
 
GALLO: It could. The banging sounds, well, if they're -- the space, like we say, they are probably not natural sound. The question is, where are they 
 
 coming from? You know, we hear them. So, where are they coming from? And they know how to do that with the hydrophones about how to triangulate. So, 
 
 every instrument points at a certain direction where they intersect. That's roughly where it is. Right now, it's all we need at the moment is, roughly, 
 
 what are we talking about. 
 
And then the second part is to get instruments over there that can get into the water and get down there and start looking for the origin of the -- of 
 
 the sounds. Again, assuming that it is the submarine. Because again, there's no time to bring other things to bear from Newfoundland. You've got 
 
 to go with what's there on the spot right now. 
 
My hopes are still high, so --
 
ASHER: Yeah.
 
GALLO: -- we'll see how this plays out. 
 
ASHER: Mine too, mine too. When you -- when you hear, you know, that technically, it's so hard to put a number on this, but technically they do 
 
 have about 96 hours of oxygen total, is it possible, just explain to our audience whether or not it's possible to really stretch that amount of time 
 
 if they keep their activity to a minimal inside the sub. Is it possible to stretch that? 
 
GALLO: Oh sure, and I'm not the kind of person that would know that, medically speaking. But yeah, I mean, that makes sense. You certainly don't 
 
 -- can't do -- jumping jacks and all sorts of other exercises. But yeah. But I think this situation is so stressed and by now, hypothermia is 
 
 probably a real issue. It's awfully cold inside that sub. So, I think that things will have slowed down quite a bit already. 
 
And, you know, I don't think, we don't really know exactly how accurate that is, the 96 hours or whatever. And nor do we know exactly how much 
 
 time. But I'm hoping that we know within a few hours, but it could be more. It could be a lot less. So again, we won't know that until -- we may never 
 
 know exactly how much there was. But as the ocean --
 
ASHER: I'm so sorry for what you're going through with your friend. Obviously, you know Paul-Henri very well. But all of us watching are really 
 
 hoping and praying that we wake up tomorrow to very, very good news. David, we have to leave it there. But thank you, thank so, so much for coming on 
 
 the show. And I'm hoping and praying that we get good news in the next few hours. Thank you, David. 
 
GALLO: Thank you.
 
ASHER: In about 20 minutes, we will get actually an update from the U.S. Coast Guard on the status of the mission to save the five explorers, as 
 
 David and I were just talking about there. When that happens, we'll bring you it live. Stay with CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: It's a basic fact that as it gets hotter, water evaporates more quickly. And that simple statement explains one of the major impacts of 
 
 climate change. Take a country like Zambia. A warming planet has left that nation of 17 million people desperate for water. Zambia has experienced 
 
 drought after drought over the past few years, leading to parched fields, dying livestocks, and food shortages, as well. 
 
The World Food Programme has been promoting water conservation and more sustainable. farming methods in Zambia by turning to celebrities. For 
 
 example, Chef and TV Personality Andrew Zimmern recently went on a tour of some of Zambia's most fragile areas to see how the WFP is helping ordinary 
 
 farmers deal with climate change. Zimmern is a well-known veteran of, well, creative food solutions. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VOICE-OVER: To 80 percent of the world, entomophagy or eating insects is nothing new. For centuries, people have been consuming giraffe beetles in 
 
 Madagascar. Wow. That's good. Stink bugs in Mexico. You can't tell me that doesn't taste like shrimp or lobster. Flying white ants in Uganda. So, it 
 
 tastes like almonds. They really do. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Time now for The Exchange. I'm delighted to be joined by Chef, TV Personality, and World Food Program Goodwill Ambassador Andrew Zimmern. 
 
 Andrew, thank you so much for being with us. I mean, when you think about the impacts of climate change on food security, especially in a continent 
 
 like Africa, I mean, the impacts are vast. 
 
I mean, I listed a few of them there, but it's everything from the depletion of fish, for example, to poor agricultural production, people's 
 
 livestocks are impacted. Obviously, the access to adequate nutrition is affected, too. You just got back from a trip to Zambia. Just walk us 
 
 through what you've been, what you saw and what you witnessed there. 
 
ANDREW ZIMMERN, CHEF AND TV PERSONALITY: I witnessed a ton of success and a ton of hope. You know, I've been going to Africa now for over 20 years and 
 
 spent a lot of time on the continent and obviously spending a lot of time both as the United Nations World Food Program, Goodwill Ambassador, but 
 
 also as a keen observer of how the crises multiplies itself. You know, you mentioned a bunch of them, but you know, if you're having problems in a 
 
 country like Zambia where 95 percent of the families are smallholder farmers, you know, kids have to stay at home to help their parents and 
 
 don't go to school. 
 
So, I went over there, especially focused on raising awareness and galvanizing support for the UNWFP, but also its mission to end global 
 
 hunger, but to see our systems that we actually put into place, like crop diversity, like aggregator systems, where once you've diversified crops and 
 
 people have some excess, they can sell them. Like financial literacy and skills training and opportunities for entrepreneurship. 
 
So, the women in the Savings for Change Program, like my friend Imelda, who I met over there, have an opportunity to save money. In fact, she built her 
 
 house with this. You know, one of the most amazing programs, because you keep mentioning water, which of course is a huge part of our climate crisis 
 
 problem and the droughts that have hit Zambia especially hard beginning in 2018, are the sack farming and hydroponic systems that we put in at schools 
 
 as a pilot program. 
 
And I went and visited the elementary school in Guembe, where we are teaching children to go with fresh healthy vegetables and sacks. And 
 
 they're giving that wisdom back to their parents who were resistant to these ideas. So, if we're conserving water, if we're diversifying crops and 
 
 we're able to change the diet, so, away from just the corn mush that is traditionally eaten in cow peas and adding greens and tomatoes and other 
 
 vegetables in there, we're creating a healthier Zambia. 
 
It's incredibly important these days because you also left out the international security and domestic security issues. You know, Zambia is 
 
 twice the size of Germany and it sits at the middle of a giant clock with eight countries around it. Stabilizing Zambia and solving their problems 
 
 through food would allow them then to trade with other countries and become a provider for the region and thereby stabilizing it. 
 <br>[12:50:00]
 
The ripple effects of development programs and not economic aid can be deeply felt throughout the region. And if it's working in Zambia, it can 
 
 work in other parts of the world. And we documented all of this in my "Paving the Way to Zero Hunger" Series that's on my YouTube channel. We 
 
 drop a new episode every week through mid-July. 
 
And if people want to support the WFP or more about their work in Zambia, my work in Zambia, just go to wfpusa.org. and you could also backslash 
 
 Zambia if you wanted to. Raising awareness is very important. It's about letting everyone know that we're having successes in a country that's 
 
 really struggling. And that gives me hope for the rest of the world. 
 
ASHER: But as you point out, you know, obviously economic aid is one part of the equation, but also agricultural diversity, climate resilience 
 
 programs, moving away from monocropping as you touch on that, all of these things can have such a dramatically positive ripple effect throughout 
 
 Zambia and actually other parts of Africa, too. But Andrew Zimmern, we have to leave it there. Thank you so much. Thank you for all you're doing in 
 
 terms of what you're doing with the World Food Program. We appreciate it. 
 
Zimmern: Thank you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: And here comes the sun. It is a celebration that goes back centuries. Thousands of people cheered, played cymbals, and clapped as they 
 
 rang in summer solstice at Britain's Stonehenge. Today, they watch the sunrise behind the ancient stone circle built over 4,500 years ago. It 
 
 marks the longest day of the year and the start of summer in the Northern Hemisphere.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: All right, still to come. A musical superstar tries his hand at a whole new business. What Pharrell Williams is doing to make a fashion icon 
 
 happy, when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: The French Interior Minister is cutting short his visit to Eastern France to return to Paris after a large fire broke out in the center of the 
 
 city following a suspected gas explosion. These are live pictures of one of the buildings that partially may have collapsed. One woman says that the 
 
 explosion felt like an earthquake. 
 
We know that 16 people have been injured, seven of those injuries are critical, 200 firefighters plus have been deployed to the area in central 
 
 Paris, that's according to our CNN affiliate. 
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
This is the 5th arrondissement. Police have urged people to avoid this area, it's close to Rue Saint-Jacques and it's on the edge of the popular 
 
 Latin Quarter. This is of course a developing story. We'll bring you more information as and when we have it. And finally --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Music Star Pharrell Williams is proving he is more than just a hitmaker. On Tuesday, Williams debuted his first collection as Louis 
 
 Vuitton's Men's Creative Director. The Fashion House shut down Paris' famous Pont Neuf bridge for the occasion. 
 
There were no shortages of A-list celebrities at the show. Jay-Z and Beyonce and Zendaya and Megan Thee Stallion were all there, some of the top 
 
 talent in attendance. Though Williams has no formal training in the fashion industry, his debut is being hailed as a huge success, and Vuitton is being 
 
 praised for taking a risk by hiring him. 
 
All right, thank you so much for watching ONE WORLD. I'm Zain Asher. Coming up next, the U.S. Coast Guard is set to give the latest update on the 
 
 ongoing search for the missing submersible near the wreck of the Titanic. Stay with CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END