Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Ukraine Launches Missile Attack on Russia's Naval Headquarters; Eight Thousand-Plus Migrants Cross U.S. Border in 24 Hours As Surge Continues to Grow; Right-Wing Republicans Defy McCarthy and Block Defense Bill; How Often does the House Fail to Pass a Rule; Biden Leads Trump by 12 Points in New Hampshire. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired September 22, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00] 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CO-ANCHOR, CNN THIS MORNING:  Commented on the incident, it has been an area in a specific, strategic target. The Ukrainians have spoken about, talked about over the course of this entire conflict. CNN's Katie Polglase has more. What do we know at this moment? I know this is breaking and moving quickly. What's your understanding of things on the ground? 
 
KATIE POLGLASE, CNN INVESTIGATIVE PRODUCER:  Well, clearly, as you can see from that video there, this is a quite major attack on Russia's Naval headquarters in that region. That is highly significant and a clear success from the Ukrainian side. And let's not forget this has happened in just a week of several other major attacks in the Crimea area as well. 
 
This is clearly part of a pattern that Ukraine is conducting with increasing frequency. Just yesterday, we were talking about the Saky Airbase as well, 12 military aircrafts targeted there. Last week, we were also talking about Sevastopol, again, a port there, a ship-repair facility that was targeted. Again, all of this is targeting Russia's infrastructure. 
 
The areas that Russia is using to build the war effort that it is conducting in this area. And clearly, the headquarters of its Naval fleet is the biggest target of all. You can see in this video here, huge smoke erupting from some of these areas. This is clearly a very alarming sight, and for Sevastopol, governor of the -- Russian- appointed governor in that area has told people to stay in shelter, stay inside, not go into the city center. 
 
That is clearly an indication that they still see it as quite dangerous. There's also indications that the debris has scattered quite wide as well, about a 100 meters around the area. So, clearly, quite a major attack that we're seeing happening right now. 
 
SARA SIDNER, CO-ANCHOR, CNN THIS MORNING:  Thank you so much for that reporting. We are watching some of the video there, where you see those huge plumes of smoke, I'm sure we will get more, so we can see the scene where you talk about, there's a 100 meters of debris spread all over the place. Let me go now to retired Colonel and CNN Military analyst Cedric
 
 Leighton who is joining us now. Talk about the significance of Sevastopol, the headquarters of the Russia's Black Sea fleet. It has now been attacked. This is the same place that's been really involved in the blockade of keeping Ukrainian ships from being able to do their job and take their routes. 
 
CEDRIC LEIGHTON, CNN MILITARY ANALYST:  That's exactly right, Sara. One of the key things about Sevastopol is the headquarters of that Black Sea fleet, and it's in that perfect position, as you mentioned, to keep those grain shipments occurring. So, the fact that the Ukrainians are going after this indicates not only are they going after what would normally be called controlled nodes, such as headquarters like this. 
 
But it's also a statement to the Russians that if they move forward with blocking grain shipments from the Ukrainians, they can actually have some consequences. And the consequences in this case are that their headquarters, their installations are going to be attacked. So this is really upping the ante as far as the Ukrainians are concerned. 
 
What they're doing is, they're in essence trying to decapitate the Black Sea fleet. They had back at the beginning of the war, we may remember the sinking of the Moskva; the flagship of the Russian Black Sea fleet. Well, this is the headquarters of that flagship and they were able to attack it, so fairly much with impunity, I would say.  
 
MATTINGLY:  Colonel Leighton to that point, this has long been, I think a strategic focus of the Ukrainian forces. We are now learning from the Russian government, the Russian side that, at least one Russian soldier was killed in this attack. The strategic value of it from a -- the broader conflict perspective. What does this do for Ukraine?
 
Is this to make people nervous, scared, we can reach you anywhere you are, or does this have a bigger picture effort tied to it? 
 
LEIGHTON:  Well, it actually has both implications, Phil. And so, yes, we can reach you anywhere is one aspect of what the Ukrainians are doing. The other thing is that it's a warning to the Russians that every single thing that they do will meet with a response from the Ukrainians. And from a strategic perspective, if you knock out something like the Black Sea fleet, their headquarters, then what you're doing is, you're making it really difficult for them to exercise command and control over those Naval assets. 
 
And when they do that, it makes it really difficult for the Russians to employ those forces. So we're seeing the Ukrainians, the strategy that in essence involves going after the top echelons of the Russian military, and the Russian military echelons that are really impacting them. A lot of those missile strikes that are affecting southern Ukrainian come from the Black Sea fleet, from the Black Sea, and there's installations there and the ships that are in that sea. 
 
And so, with those installations and those ships aren't being controlled properly, then that limits the Russians' effectiveness in this war.  
 
SIDNER:  Cedric Leighton, thank you so much for giving us that insight. And just again, to sort of rewrap, there has been an attack, it's the Naval headquarters in Crimea for Russia.
 <br>[08:05:00] 
 
Ukraine likely the person that did this. They were able to attack Russia's Black Sea fleet, and we're seeing images from that huge plumes of smoke, and we're hearing that there is debris spread across a 100 meters. We will be giving you updates as soon as we get them from there.  
 
MATTINGLY:  And we also know at least one Russian soldier was killed in that attack. We are going to keep our eyes on this and stay on this story throughout the course of the next hour. This is a major strategic target for Ukraine, and clearly, a continuation of what has been an escalating tempo of attacks in Crimea and on the Crimean Peninsula which was illegally annexed by Russia several years ago.
 
We are also this morning, want to focus on what is becoming an escalating crisis at the southern border. Nearly 9,000 migrants crossing the border in just 24 hours as the surge continues to grow. They're overwhelming border towns like Eagle Pass, Texas, and the White House now sending hundreds of additional troops to help.  
 
SIDNER:  We are seeing desperate scenes like the one you're seeing here, families pulling toddlers, small children under razor wire there. The mayor of Eagle Pass has declared a state of emergency. He tells CNN, he pretty much feels abandoned by the federal government. And we want to show you some drone video of all the migrants detained. 
 
You see them standing in groups there at the border in Eagle Pass just yesterday. Our Ed Lavandera is there with his team live on the ground. What are you seeing at this hour? I know it is still quite dark there in Eagle Pass. 
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  It is still, the sun has not quite come up yet. But it is very quiet. By this time yesterday, we had already seen the beginning of what was going to be hundreds and hundreds of migrants crossing the river here in Eagle Pass. The mayor told us last night that he was told by federal authorities that they are watching what could be more migrants coming into southern Mexico, numbers as high as 50 to 60,000. 
 
And where exactly all of those migrants might end up is not clear, and that's what many officials along the U.S. southern border are concerned about right now. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
LAVANDERA (voice-over):  Dozens of migrants stand in the Rio Grande moments after forming a human chain to cross the river and through layers of razor wire, trying to reach Eagle Pass, Texas. They tell me they're from Venezuela. Among them a woman and a toddler, the danger for them is real. Two people including a 3-year-old boy have drowned this week after being swept away in the river current. But after a nearly 3,000-mile journey, they accept the risk. 
 
(on camera):  (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE). How long are you going to wait here? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
LAVANDERA:  Who said they're going to wait here until they let them in. 
 
(voice-over):  The migrants tell us they've been robbed and attacked on the Mexican side of the river. After hours of waiting, the migrants figure out a way to crawl under the razor wire. In a surreal scene, one man instantly apologized. 
 
(on camera):  They wanted to apologize for crossing illegally into the U.S. and they're begging and asking for mercy, and to understand that they're coming from a country where they're persecuted, and they feel like if they were to be returned home, they would be killed. 
 
(voice-over):  The mass influx of migrants is causing tension between federal and state authorities. Texas Governor Greg Abbott posted this video, accusing border agents of cutting razor wire at an undisclosed location in Eagle Pass, allowing trapped migrants to turn themselves in. 
 
DHS officials refused to comment on the governor's allegation. On Wednesday, about 3,000 migrants crossed into Eagle Pass alone.  
 
TOM SCHMERBER, SHERIFF, MAVERICK COUNTY, TEXAS:  It's something very strange, never thought I was going to see something like this in Eagle Pass, Texas. 
 
LAVANDERA:  The local sheriff tells us smugglers are preying on the hopes of these migrants, offering to move them to other cities if they can get into the U.S.  
 
SCHMERBER:  I know this because we have smugglers from -- coming from Houston, Florida, Austin, everywhere to pick up these immigrants. There's a connection there.   
 
LAVANDERA:  Reasons for the surge vary, but migrants we spoke to say they've grown frustrated with the CBP 1 app that processes formal applications, many waiting months on the Mexican side for an appointment. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
LAVANDERA:  These two men from Venezuela say they crossed illegally because they're desperate and have been waiting three months for the appointment to request asylum. "It's a risk we had to take", he tells me. We know there's a chance we get deported, but it's in God's hands. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
LAVANDERA:  And Sara and Phil, here this morning, we are not seeing so far, anyway, large numbers of migrants crossing the river. And what many authorities and officials along the U.S. southern border are trying to figure out is whether or not, this is a momentary surge, something that will pass, or is this a sign of a more sustained issue that they're going to have to deal with for the weeks and months ahead. Sara and Phil.  
 
MATTINGLY:  Yes, no near-term fix regardless of what happens next. Ed Lavandera, we appreciate your reporting. Thank you. Also this morning, a government shutdown, it is looking more likely than ever. There's the clock, you have the clock. Speaker Kevin McCarthy has sent Congress home for a long weekend, even though there's only eight days, 8 days, 15 hours, 50 minutes, 27 seconds left until the funding runs out. 
 <br>[08:10:00] 
 
It comes after McCarthy suffered yet another major defeat on the house floor. Yet again, hard line conservatives killed the GOP's defense spending bill as McCarthy struggles to contain a Republican rebellion. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA):  It's frustrating in the sense that I don't understand why anybody votes against bringing the idea and having the debate. And then you've got all the amendments if you don't like the bill. This is a whole new concept of individuals that just want to burn the whole place down. It doesn't work.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SIDNER:  And that's the speaker there saying that some of the members of his own party want to burn the place down. All right. It is a sign that Speaker McCarthy does not have enough votes -- GOP votes, that is, to avoid the looming shutdown. Here is what we're hearing from Republicans on the opposite sides of that divide. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
REP. MATT  GAETZ (R-FL):  There will not be sufficient Republican votes for a continuing resolution. Now, if we've got some of these moderate Republicans who want to go and join up with the Democrats, they will be signing their own political death warrant, and they will be handing it to their executioner. 
 
REP. MIKE LAWLER (R-NY):  I am not going to be party to a shutdown. It does not serve a purpose. At the end of the day, any final bill is going to be bipartisan. And if somebody doesn't realize that, they're truly clueless.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SIDNER:  The Representative Lawler making very clear that he is going to work with the Democrats, just get this done because that is what's needed. CNN congressional correspondent Lauren Fox is live for us on Capitol Hill. Lauren, McCarthy's current plan to avoid a shutdown doesn't look like it is going to be put through. LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, yesterday, leaders
 
 ditched their plan to try to pass a short-term spending bill with just Republican votes, and that plan was always going to be dead on arrival in the Senate. Now, their effort and their pursuit, which is going to be a very long shot effort, is that they are basically trying to pass 11 spending bills in eight days before a government shutdown. 
 
And these are bills that have imperiled the conference before. One of them is that DOD bill that you pointed to that failed on a procedure vote just yesterday. That was leadership's second attempt to try to move that legislation. They're going to try to make some changes to that, and the House Rules Committee is going to vote today to try to get this process started, trying to work through four spending bills, four individual one-year spending bills, that they then hope to put on the floor next week. 
 
But lawmakers aren't expected back until Tuesday. That means that there is so much work left to do, that they have to rally Republicans around bills that they have yet to have rallied them around to this point. And that is why this is such a long shot strategy. It also serves as a reminder that the Senate is not going to accept anything that they pass. 
 
So, at this point, a government shutdown is not only likely, it is really unavoidable unless Republicans change course or unless there are enough Republicans to try to force this on the floor to try to work with Democrats. But again, there may not even be time for that effort. So right now, you have two options. Both of them look like they couldn't avoid a shutdown. 
 
The only option at this point that could work is if Kevin McCarthy just put a bill on the floor that the Senate had already passed. And we know, of course, that he is imperiled and he is facing a lot of pressure on his right flank. So doing so could likely mean he could lose his job. Sara.  
 
SIDNER:  Things are not hooking up for them or for the American people, frankly. Lauren Fox, thank you so much for your reporting. 
 
MATTINGLY:  So, I think it's important to step back here. At this moment, the Office of Management and Budget is once again sending out their guidance to the agencies in preparation for a shutdown. And why I say once again is because this is a process in place, about seven days out from a shutdown, we now know exactly when it's going to happen, how it's going to cap and the guidance that's going to go out. 
 
But this is different. And here's why? Lauren mentioned the procedural vote that went down, and I don't want to get into arcane congressional procedure as much as I know Sara Sidner would love for me to do -- 
 
SIDNER:  Well -- 
 
MATTINGLY:  For the next three hours, but it underscores why this moment is different from past shutdowns, from past deadlocks, from past inter-party warfare for Republicans. A rule essentially is what guides the floor debate. The party that's in power holds the majority always passes the rule. That's how you get to the floor to even talk about a bill.
 
If you want to debate something, you have to go to the house floor with a rule, everyone does it. Even if you oppose the bill, you support the rule. So what's happening right now for Speaker Kevin McCarthy and how imperiled is he in terms of his power? Well, let's take a look through history with a big shout-out to Kristin Wilson, our Capitol Hill producer who pulled all of this data together as we were all watching yesterday in awe to some degree as Kevin McCarthy lost his third vote on a rule. 
 
Again, the majority party almost always votes for the rule. How much do I mean? Almost always? Well, look through the past, Newt Gingrich when he was speaker, he lost six rule votes. All right, that's three more than McCarthy. Maybe McCarthy is in a great place. Dennis Hastert, he lost two. Then look at the next 15 to 16 years. 
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
Over the course of 15 to 16 years. Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Speaker John Boehner, Speaker Paul Ryan, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi, lost zero rule votes. Again, it is almost pro forma that the party in power in the House of Representatives. Their members vote for the rule and move them forward. That is what's different about right now. Now you say, "All right, well, Gingrich lost six." Yes, Gingrich lost six over the course of his speakership Kevin McCarthy, Kevin McCarthy has been in the speaker role since 2023.
 
That's this year. He's been in power for less than a year. He's already lost three votes and the last two he's lost on a rule have been on a defense spending bill which in prior times was the lowest of low-hanging fruit for House Republicans. That's why this is a different moment, Sara. 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN NEWS ANCHOR: Phil, can we just remind people that this is overfunding the government for 31 days? We are not talking about a huge bill that's going to fund the government for the next year or so. We're talking about a tiny amount of time just to keep the government open and they can't even pass a rule. We are in a mess. 
 
MATTINGLY: Everything's great. Say that's Friday. 
 
SIDNER: Thanks. All right. Ron DeSantis telling voters under 65 that they should not get the COVID booster as he continues to attack the CDC. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RON DESANTIS, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: How good has the CDC done? With all due respect, over the last few years, how many people trust CDC at this point? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: Dr. Mandy Cohen is the newest CDC director. We will have her respond to his allegations and talk about the CDC and what it plans to-do to deal with the COVID issues. Coming up next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
SIDNER: All right, a brand-new CNN poll for you this morning is out on President Biden's reelection chances in the state of New Hampshire. It shows Biden with a twelve-point average over Donald Trump in a hypothetical rematch. The numbers break down to 52% to 40%. 
 
That's a much wider margin than the national polls, which have shown the two are neck and neck in the race. Let's get straight to CNN political director David Chalian, who has more on this new poll. Where does Biden's approval rating stand with this particular latest poll?
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Yes, and remember, this is our first state-specific poll of the cycle. We are looking at the state of New Hampshire, a state that Donald Trump lost twice narrowly to Hillary Clinton in 16, and more widely he lost to Biden three years ago. Joe Biden's approval rating in the state of New Hampshire, according to our new poll with the University of New Hampshire, is at 46%. 
 
54% Disapprove of this too, just like you were saying about the horse race, is a better number than Joe Biden gets nationally. He hovers around 39 or 40%. So, this is welcome news and may take this battleground state and tilt it a touch blue. 
 
MATTINGLY: David, as we've looked at the national polls, you talk about how that's different than the 46% is higher than where he's kind of on average been at the head-to-head with Trump is significantly better than what we've seen on average nationally. What does that mean for the age question? 
 
Because that has contributed so heavily to kind of the national unease.
 
CHALIAN: Yeah, and listen, this is a factor, as you know, Phil, talking to your White House sources. This is not going away. They understand that and we see it here in our New Hampshire poll. This is among likely Democratic primary voters. So just talking about Democratic primary voters here, what is your biggest concern about Biden as a candidate? Open-ended questions, not giving them options. 57% come back with his age. 
 
I mean, nothing else even comes close.4% say health. You can add that in. You've got six in ten likely Democratic voters who express that as a concern. 
 
SIDNER: Donald Trump has the outsized lead among the Republican candidates, but how is Biden stacking up against a GOP field that is also trying to get a foothold in the race? 
 
CHALIAN: Yeah, so despite the concerns that Democrats may have about Joe Biden's age, as you noted at the top in this head-to-head hypothetical matchup, Joe Biden is winning over Donald Trump. He's beating him 52% to 40%.8% unsure. Now, guys, even if the bulk of this 8% are unsure, let's say they are more 
 
Republican-leaning and come home to Trump. That's still a significant victory here for Biden. And I'm going to tick through the other candidates and show you something very interesting. 
 
Biden beats all of them outside the margin of error. But take a look here.50% told us about Joe Biden when we tested him against Ron DeSantis. 33% for DeSantis. We didn't offer Donald Trump as an option, but 10% of respondents came back with Donald Trump. 
 
We see this time and again in the matchup against Ramaswami.49% Biden 32%. Ramaswamy again. Trump was not offered as an option, 9% of respondents came back with Trump. When you get even a less popular Republican, Trump's numbers go up. Pence only at 20%, and Trump at 15%. Again, Biden winning. Same here with Tim Scott and Nikki Haley at 29%, Joe Biden at 45%, and Trump at 13%. Here's what's key to understand only against Donald Trump is Joe Biden north of 50%. That's one important detail.
 
But we don't talk enough about this. There are Republicans and then there are Trump-specific Republicans. And if indeed someone other than Trump does emerge with the nomination, I think this is starting to show us the work they would need to do to bring those Trump-specific Republicans into the fold that could present a challenge to a nominee not named Trump if they were successful at defeating him.
 
MATTINGLY: My happiness is when Chalian gets numbers back that demonstrate a theory of the case that he's had and he has new ways to show it. And you can just feel the palpable enthusiasm because it's such a great point and you want totry and figure out ways to do it. You just did, David Chalian. Appreciate it, my friend, thank you.
 
CHALIAN: Thank you.
 
MATTINGLY: Join us now to discuss the political analyst Natasha Alfred and Axios National Political Reporter Alex Thompson. Alex, I want to start with you because you have written so much about the President, about his reelection campaign, and you had a story, I think it was earlier this week, it might have been late last week you're fairly prolific, but about how poll after poll after poll has come out. 
 
Biden stop advisors have tried to communicate to donors and others, look, man, this is a contrast race. This is a we have the issues of race. And at some point, it'll settle down. Ignore the polls that show bad approval ratings or show major concern about his age. 
 
And what I think is interesting about New Hampshire, particularly if you pair it with the special election and the state legislature that just happened, where Dems overperformed in a major way is you put them head-to-head and on a state level, maybe you got good numbers after all. 
 
ALEX THOMPSON, NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER, AXIOS: Absolutely. This poll shows Biden's theory of the case or his inner circle. A lot of nervous Democrats are communicating to the White House, hey, we're seeing these numbers on age. We're seeing these things and the White House's message. And people have been struck by the quiet confidence.
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
In some cases, dismissiveness over these worries. Now, there were two numbers in this poll specifically that I want to point to that really show this. 52% of people in New Hampshire think that Joe Biden is not physically or mentally capable of doing the job right. Now, 60% said that they don't think he's physically or mentally capable of doing the job in the second term, and yet he is ahead by twelve points. 
 
And that sort of shows maybe a dissatisfaction with the options. But the fact of the matter is, once Joe Biden is up against Donald Trump, those concerns go away. If there's a lesser of two evils at the moment in New Hampshire, they choose Joe Biden. 
 
SIDNER: And I guess that is why you 'rehearing the messaging from them. It's like, chill out, it's going to be fine. Because when it comes head-to-head, they see Biden as the clear winner. I want to ask you about that as a whole. You see what's happening in New Hampshire with this new polling. What big difference does that make in the national scheme of things? Because the national numbers look very different, right?
 
NATASHA ALFORD, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: I mean, New Hampshire is a sign of things to come. So, it is important that if a candidate gains momentum in New Hampshire, that can affect other states. But I think it's pretty consistent with national polls still. 
 
The point is that there is a divide, right? And Americans are saying we don't want this race, we don't want this head to head, but if you force us to choose, these are some of the factors that emerge. And for Democratic-leaning candidates or even moderates, it's this idea now, 
 
Biden may not be the age that we want, but we trust the policies, we trust the character. If you look at that poll, the number about anger towards Donald Trump, right, there's a higher percentage of anger towards Donald Trump and what his Presidency would mean for democracy at large. 
 
So, I think those are the factors that are playing into it.
 
MATTINGLY: That was the number that jumped for me in this version of we've already done the Republican New Hampshire poll that we rolled out earlier this week. But the negatives and the anger, I mean, it's above 60% for Trump, and New Hampshire is a state that Biden won, but it's always one of those states on the periphery for Republicans. They think maybe they can have a shot at it. That's a disqualifying number of people when it comes to Trump. 
 
And I think that's what you head into the next debate and everybody's trying to figure out, all right, can somebody rise? Can somebody break out? And you can't help but look at that. Even when you contrast the amazing numbers that Shine was showing at the end there. 
 
ALFORD: It's interesting because I think when you look at the numbers of GOP supporters who still are leaning towards Donald Trump, some of them for them, they want the anger that he represents, right? They see this as retribution. They see this as another chance to sort of make things right for this election that they believe was stolen, which we know it wasn't. 
 
But I think it's very interesting that DeSantis has actually dropped, right? Because his version of anger, his version of trying to be a Donald Trump 2.0, actually isn't resonating with that GOP audience. And I think that speaks volumes. That's really interesting. I want to talk about the debate going forward. 
 
We know Donald Trump is going to skip the second debate again and try to do that thing where he does some counter-programming. But Chris Christie, who has gone after him, probably is the GOP candidate who's the strongest against Trump when he comes out and talks about it. He's been on the attack. Let's listen to what he had to say about Donald Trump not taking part in yet another of these debates. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS CHRISTIE, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: If he had any guts, he'd get on the debate stage and he's got things to say about me. Stop hiding behind your social media site, your failed social media site, Donald, and start taking me on directly. Show up stop being a coward. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: All righty, then. Is that going to help him? Like this kind of direct attack? 
 
THOMPSON: Is it going to help Chris Christie? 
 
SIDNER: Yes. 
 
THOMPSON: Well, you've seen his numbers. His negative numbers go up as a result of attacking Donald Trump. The fact of the matter is, this is still Donald Trump's party. And Chris Christie was saying some of these same things before the first debate. Donald Trump didn't show up. Donald Trump has already said that he is not showing up to the third debate at this point in this race unless somebody emerges. 
 
I would be shocked if Trump gets on a debate stage with his GOP rivals. You're also seeing that he is already pivoting his messaging to a general election message. He is already pivoting to the center. That's why he was fine sort of upsetting some of these anti-abortion groups. 
 
This last week is because he's already saying a six-week abortion ban is bad. He's already going to the middle. You also notice his counter- programming for the debate. Last time, it was Tucker Carlson, a right- wing media figure. This time, he's trying to take on Joe Biden over the UAW strike. He is
 
 trying to make this Trump versus Biden already. 
 
ALFORD: A debate is good for democracy, right? It's not necessarily good for Donald Trump at this moment. He has a lead. No need to break it or have to be held accountable by pretty much everyone on that stage who's going to want to take shots at him. 
 
SIDNER: All right. Thank you. Natasha Alford and Alex Thompson. I appreciate you both. 
 
MATTINGLY: Well, Deion Sanders and the Colorado Buffaloes have stampeded their way through the college football world. They have a big test against Oregon this weekend. I think FC is next weekend. Can Coach Prime pull off the upset?
 <br>[08:30:00]