Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: London Jury Acquits Actor Kevin Spacey of All Sexual Assault Charges; Niger President Mohamed Bazoum Seized By Guards, State TV Captured By Military; Israel Supreme Court Says It Will Not Temporarily Block A New Law That Limits Its Own Power; Kyiv's Forces Advancing In The East But Encountering Fierce Resistance Near Bakhmut; Italy Battles Two Weather Extremes; Lawmakers Press Three Witnesses On Their Encounters With Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena; Hunter Biden Expected To Plead Guilty To Two Misdemeanors Over Late Tax Payments; Haitians Say They Are Terrorized By A Brutal Network Of Gangs. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired July 26, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: I'm Zain Asher from New York and this is One World. Not Guilty. A jury in London has acquitted actor Kevin Spacey 
 
 of all sexual assault charges against him. Four different men made accusations against Spacey dating back to incidents between the years 2004 
 
 and 2013. But at the end of a nearly month-long trial, jurors cleared him of all nine charges. Spacey thanked the jury upon exiting the courtroom. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEVIN SPACEY, ACTOR: I'm enormously grateful to the jury for having taken the time to examine all of the evidence and all of the facts carefully 
 
 before they reached their decision. And I am humbled by the outcome today. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: CNN's Salma Abdelaziz joins us live now from London. Salma, Kevin Spacey has been very outspoken, at times teary-eyed in the past, talking 
 
 about what the last six years has meant for his career, how he's gone without work. What does this mean for his career going forward? Also worth-
 
 noting that some of the complainants, I believe, are still pursuing Spacey in the civil court, so this is not exactly over for him just yet. 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, but for Kevin Spacey in his mind today and for his lawyers, they absolutely see this as a victory. 
 
 Spacey has said since the outset over and over again that he really looked forward to the opportunity to be in a courtroom in London to, as he says, 
 
 prove his innocence to a jury. And in his mind, that is exactly what he was able to do, found not guilty on all nine sexual offense charges. 
 
As that was read out, the not guilty one by one by one. Kevin Spacey was brought to tears. He later stepped out to the reporters, including 
 
 ourselves, that were standing outside the courtroom, gave about a one- minute statement in which he said he was humbled by the decision, thanked the courtroom staff, thanked the jury, but also said that he has a lot to 
 
 process. And as you mentioned, there is, of course, the possibility still of civil cases against him. 
 
Look, these were very serious allegations, very serious accusations against this award-winning actor. Again, nine offenses, including seven counts of 
 
 sexual assault, and one the most serious of causing a person to engage in penetrative sexual activity without consent. That, on its own, could have 
 
 carried decades in prison. Again, he's been found not guilty of all of these offenses. Kevin Spacey will see this as an opportunity to revive his 
 
 career, but what played out in court was truly riveting, Zain. 
 
And as you can only imagine, will have an impact of course, on Kevin Spacey's reputation. The prosecutor who brought forward the incidences, the 
 
 accusations of these four men, described Kevin Spacey in this period between the early 2000s and 2010s, a time when he was the artistic director 
 
 of the old Vic Theater, he described, or she described rather --the prosecutor -- as -- Kevin Spacey as a sexual bully, as, and I quote, "at 
 
 one point, telling the courtroom he delights in making others feel powerless and uncomfortable". 
 
Kevin Spacey, of course, hit back at this in court saying, yes, I am a big flirt, telling the jurors that he is sexually promiscuous, but of course 
 
 going on to say that doesn't make him a bad person, that he was throughout many of these incidences describing them as romantic and, of course, 
 
 describing them as consensual. It's important to note that these all surfaced, these accusations surface in the wake of the "Me Too" movement, 
 
 so this is potentially a blow to that movement. But for today, for Kevin Spacey, he'll see this as a victory and as you said, as a chance to reclaim 
 
 that award-winning acting career. 
 
ASHER: All right, Salma Abdelaziz, live for us there. Thank you so much. All right, we are keeping an eye on a potential political situation 
 
 unfolding in Niger right now, in terms of what appears to be a possible coup attempt. 
 
So, witnesses tell CNN the presidential palace in Niamey is surrounded by military vehicles. And reports say the President has been seized by his 
 
 guards. Right now, the streets of the capital are calm. 
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
And a statement on the presidency's social media channels claims that Mohamed Bazoum is, quote, doing well. CNN cannot verify the statement. 
 
 Let's turn now to CNN's Larry Madowo who joins us live now from Nairobi. I mean, this is, of course, a country, Niger, that has had coups and 
 
 attempted coups in the past. Just walk us through what we know about how President Bazoum is doing, just in terms of his fate. And also, we're 
 
 hearing reports that the military has captured state TV. What more do we know? 
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Zain, I need to preface this by saying there's a lot we do not know, but here's what we know, that President 
 
 Mohamed Bazoum is being held at the presidential palace, according to multiple sources. We also learned a short while ago, CNN, according to a 
 
 source close to the president, that the presidential guard and the government are involved in discussions. This source is not telling us what 
 
 these discussions are about, but we also know that the roads around the presidential palace are blocked. 
 
Some government ministries have been closed for most of today. The city appeared calm. But something suddenly has been afoot, a heavy military 
 
 presence around the presidential palace, and now we understand that the military appears to have taken control of state television. It's still 
 
 broadcasting, at least according to feed on their website, but the military is understood to be in control of state television in Niger. 
 
This is a situation that has earned condemnation from the regional body, the economic community of West African states, ECOWAS, the African Union, 
 
 and the European Union. In fact, the ECOWAS, that regional body, West Africa, warning anybody involved in this that the ECOWAS and international 
 
 community will hold them responsible for the safety and security of President Bazoum, of his family, and of senior government officials, 
 
 anybody, citizens involved in this situation. 
 
He was elected in 2021. Niger is a relatively more stable part of an unstable neighborhood. There's a big jihadist crisis in the Sahel, 
 
 especially in Mali and Burkina Faso. And with French troops leaving Mali, Niger has become the linchpin of France's strategy in the region, so a key 
 
 ally for both France and the United States there. The United States Embassy said that it had received reports of political instability in the country 
 
 and said that even though the situation appeared to be calm, it advised people to limit unnecessary movements and especially avoid all travel along 
 
 Avenue Rue de la Republique until further notice. 
 
We have seen a statement from the presidency's official accounts on Facebook and on Twitter, though that statement disappeared from these 
 
 official accounts, except this one section that I want to read for you that remains on the Twitter account of the presidency of Niger. "The President 
 
 of the Republic and his family are doing well. The army and the national guard are ready to attack the elements of the presidential guard involved 
 
 in this fit of anger if they do not return to their better senses." 
 
So, this statement initially said that there were members of the presidential guard who were involved in anti-Republican status in vain and 
 
 that they were being dealt with. So, the disappearance of that is something that is odd. There's a lot still we don't know there in here, but suddenly 
 
 a worrying situation in Niger. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, definitely keep us posted in terms of what happens in Niamey. As we just saw in the video there, thestreets.com, but people are being 
 
 warned to stay away from Avenue de la Republique, as you point out. Larry Madowo, live for us there. Thank you so much. 
 
Right now, to Israel, where the Supreme Court says it will not temporarily block a new law that limits its own power, at least for now, but it will 
 
 hear challenges from seven petitioners trying to get the so-called reasonableness -- reasonableness law thrown out. In a ruling, the High 
 
 Court said it will hold a debate in September. 
 
One group petitioning against the law celebrated the court's decision, vowing to quote, demonstrate and fight everywhere and on every platform 
 
 until the threat is removed. The law passed by Israel's Knesset on Monday blocks the High Court's ability to declare government decisions 
 
 unreasonable. The Knesset said Wednesday, the law has officially been published in records and entered into force. 
 
Turning now to Russia's war on Ukraine, where Kyiv says its forces are advancing in the east but encountering fierce resistance near Bakhmut. This 
 
 video appears to show Ukrainian forces taking over Russian positions south of the besieged city. CNN is unable to independently confirm the details. 
 
 Meantime, Russian-installed officials and military bloggers claim Ukrainian troops have launched a major offensive in the southern region building on 
 
 modest gains in the past couple of days.
 
Russian President Vladimir Putin is preparing to host a high-stakes meeting with African leaders this week at St. Petersburg. Some of those leaders 
 
 have arrived at the main summit that starts on Thursday. They're set to discuss everything from war in Ukraine to food security and trade. 
 
A number of African countries are feeling the impact. On Thursday, they're set to discuss everything from war in Ukraine to food security and trade. A 
 
 number of African countries are feeling the impact of Russia having withdrawn from the Black Sea grain deal with Ukraine. A lot of African 
 
 countries, especially in the eastern part of Africa, are experiencing food insecurity as a result of Russia pulling out of that deal. 
 
Let me bring in David McKenzie, joining us live now from Johannesburg. Here's the thing. When Russia had an Africa summit back in 2019, you had 
 
 pretty much about 43 African leaders attend that summit. This time, the number is much smaller. It's closer to roughly around 20. What should we 
 
 make of the lower turnout, David? 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Zain, the latest numbers, in fact, from the Kremlin is around 17. So, it is a 
 
 significant drop in the number of heads of state going to the second Russia-Africa summit. And you can't help but think this is in part due to 
 
 the war in Ukraine and the vilification on the world stage of President Vladimir Putin and, of course, several months ago, those international 
 
 criminal court charges placed against him for alleged war crimes. 
 
But the Russians have hit back saying that it is a crucially important summit. They have blamed the West for smearing them, but have said on a 
 
 diplomatic front that it's the scheduling of some African leaders, but still a very significant summit, and it will be the first major conference 
 
 of its kind since the beginning of the war in Ukraine. Zain.
 
ASHER: There are a key number of African leaders who are not attending. President Tinubu of Nigeria not going. President Ruto of Kenya, also not 
 
 going. In fact, President Ruto basically said, look, I don't see the point of having 54 leaders from Africa going to visit one man. It doesn't make 
 
 sense to us. Just walk us through the optics of this summit. 
 
MCKENZIE: Well, President Ruto in Kenya, of course, is leader of a nation that has been staunchly supporting the U.S. stance on the war in Ukraine, 
 
 very different here in South Africa, where the president, the foreign minister, the minister in the presidency are all going to that summit. Now, 
 
 the optics will be still powerful for President Putin, because the Western powers have tried to show through sanctions over these many months and 
 
 through isolating Putin and further, the International Criminal Court indictment, which could see Putin arrested if he sets foot in a country 
 
 that is part of that treaty. 
 
This will be a moment where Vladimir Putin is standing on the stage with multiple, powerful African leaders for a summit, in which shows in a very 
 
 visual sense that he's not completely isolated from world affairs, and Russia is taking an even more active role in African affairs even since the 
 
 war began, Zain. 
 
ASHER: And of course, the major topic, the major concern for a lot of African countries, especially the East African countries, is going to be 
 
 Russia pulling out of the grain deal and of course what that has meant for several African nations in terms of food inflation, rising prices, food 
 
 insecurity, as well. David McKenzie, we do have to leave it there. Thank you so much. 
 
All right, turning now to Italy, which is battling two weather extremes. You've got severe storms in the north and wildfires in the south. 
 
 Firefighters are battling at least 10 fires which have claimed at least four lives. You can actually see here in this video, one driver actually 
 
 found himself in the middle of the flames. 
 
Crews in Northern Italy are cleaning up after storms. They're knocked down trees and damaged buildings with golf ball-sized hail. One teenager was 
 
 killed when a tree fell on her tent while she was camping. CNN Meteorologist Derek Van Dam takes a look at weather. There's some relief in 
 
 sight for Europe. 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST DEREK: Yeah, that's right, saying we are battling two different weather extremes across Italy to the north, severe 
 
 weather to the south, extreme heat and wildfires. Let's begin with the severe storms across northern Italy. This is incredible. You saw some of 
 
 the footage of the storms that brought down trees and power lines in Milan, 110 kilometer per hour wind gusts with this line of storms that move 
 
 through. That's equivalent to near Category 1 Atlantic Hurricane strength. 
 
Of course, it wasn't a hurricane that brought down the trees in Milan, but a severe line of storms with wind gusts there exceeding 110 kilometers per 
 
 hour. The other big story was the hailstones that fell from the sky, 10 centimeters with this particular report. But there was one uncooperative 
 
 report that said a 19-centimeter hailstone fell from the sky in northern Italy that rivals some of the largest hailstones that fall across the plain 
 
 states here within the United States. 
 
This is some of the imagery of the hail that fell across northern Italy, and it really started to accumulate quickly across the streets there. We've 
 
 got cool weather to the north and the record heat to the south. That's the battleground we start to see take place between those two different air 
 
 masses, and that's why we get the severe to accumulate quickly across the streets there. 
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
We've got cool weather to the north and the record heat to the south. That's the battleground we start to see take place between those two 
 
 different air masses, and that's why we get the severe storms. Now, we talk about fires because we've got Corfu, the island just off the coast of 
 
 Greece. Here's Sicily. Look at all the wildfire hot spots. And then, there's the island of Rhodes in Greece that is continuing to see the 
 
 wildfires burn out of control. 
 
This is the Copernicus wildfire imagery that you can see. Some of the wildfires just streaming towards the coastline and the island of Corfu in 
 
 Greece. And this is all under the backdrop of record-setting temperatures throughout the Mediterranean. We do have a bit of a reprieve in the daytime 
 
 highs for Athens, for instance, 37 on Thursday, but 32 degrees on Friday, so a bit more normal in terms of temperatures, but still hot and still dry 
 
 across that region. 
 
We mentioned the potential for more severe storms today. That's because of the battleground of air masses, cooler weather to the north, warmer to the 
 
 south, and this is setting up our chance of severe wind, large hail, excessive precipitation. Can't even rule out an isolated tornado today for 
 
 portions of the Balkan states, and that extends into southern Russia, as well. So, very active weather pattern to say the least across Europe as it 
 
 stands. Zain, back to you. 
 
ASHER: All right, Derek Van Dam there. Thank you. In the world of Washington, lawmakers are pressing three witnesses on their encounters with 
 
 what are known as UAPs, Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena. A slight upgrade from the UFO acronym of old. In the last few years, genuine questions have 
 
 emerged about what exactly is out there, such that even Congress is taking them seriously. CNN's Tom Foreman has been following what has been 
 
 certainly a very interesting day on the Hill. Tom, what more can you tell us? 
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, if you are a conspiracy theorist or you believe there's something out there, this has been an absolute fountain 
 
 of new material that you'll be delighted with. Throughout the day, these three witnesses, former military people, have testified that not only are 
 
 there many, many more sightings than we know of that go unreported, but that the government is keeping it all under wraps and keeping it all 
 
 secretive and not letting us know about these vessels that they say are appearing in airspace around the world and doing absolutely astonishing 
 
 things. Listen to this one exchange. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN: Do you believe UAPs pose a potential threat to our national security? 
 
DAVID FRAVOR, RETIRED U.S. NAVY COMMANDER: Yes, and here's why. The technology that we faced was far superior than anything that we had, and 
 
 you could put that anywhere. If you had one, you captured one, you reverse engineered it, you got it to work, you're talking something that can go 
 
 into space, go someplace, drop down in a matter of seconds, do whatever it wants, and leave, and there's nothing we can do about it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOREMAN: So, that retired commander, he's one of the people who saw one of these things, which has been recorded, and says, look, what I saw defied 
 
 the laws of physics, it defied the laws of material science. This is a very, very big deal out there. Now, on the other hand, if you're one of the 
 
 skeptics, some of the information we're hearing today is secondhand, thirdhand. 
 
One of the witnesses saying, oh, yeah, they recovered essentially bodies of some kind of pilots that were not human. But then when somebody said, have 
 
 you seen them, he's like, well, no, I haven't seen them. I've just heard about them, and I believe we're keeping them, and I believe we're keeping 
 
 spacecraft. But then they say, well, you want to be more open? Tell us about them. And he's like, well, I can't tell you in open meetings like 
 
 this. It's all very intriguing if you're a believer and very much raising the skepticism if you're not a believer, making you want to say, yeah, 
 
 maybe advanced weapons systems, maybe all sorts of things, but not what you think it is. 
 
ASHER: Okay. Right. Certainly, an eyebrow-raising day. 
 
FORMAN: Wow.
 
ASHER: Regardless of what side of the fence you're on, Tom Foreman, live for us there. Thank you so much. Let's turn now to a true expert on the 
 
 night sky above. David Kipping is an Assistant Professor of Astronomy at Columbia University. He joins us live now from New York. You know, David, 
 
 there have been so many conspiracy theories when it comes to UFOs or UAPs as they're now known. 
 
And a lot of people hearing this will say, look, the idea of UFOs sounds absurd. I mean, it sounds very much out there, very much in the sort of 
 
 fantasy realm. Certainly unbelievable. That's what a lot of people would say. What are the right questions we should be asking as we listen to this 
 
 testimony on Capitol Hill today? 
 
DAVID KIPPING, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ASTRONOMY, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY: I think as a scientist, someone who looks up at the sky and tries to look for 
 
 life out there, the thing I really want is something that's a bit more credible than just personal testimony. We want some hard, physical 
 
 evidence. 
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
There are claimed to be these spacecrafts, which are in U.S. possession, right? So, the government has these. So, I would love personally, as a 
 
 scientist to actually see proof of that technology or even proof of biological sample, if there are bodies. But so far, all we have are 
 
 personal testimonies and some grainy videos, and it's just ambiguous. I think the problem for me is what is the error rate of these pilots? Yes, 
 
 they are seeing something, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's aliens. There could be some mundane or natural phenomenon that they're simply 
 
 misidentifying. 
 
ASHER: You know what I find interesting? I find two things quite interesting. One is the fact that, you know, we've got sort of Navy pilots 
 
 testifying. These are sort of senior level people, people who at face value seem credible, at least on paper, just in terms of their title. But I also 
 
 think that, you know, the fact that Congress is even entertaining this, the fact that Congress is willing to have a hearing and have these people 
 
 testify publicly and that it's a bipartisan effort. Do you find that aspect of it somewhat interesting? Does that sort of change the conversation in 
 
 any way? 
 
KIPPING: It's kind of interesting. It moves what we call the Overton window. So, it means that UFOs, which were once considered this kind of 
 
 very fringe topic, is now being considered kind of almost mainstream at this point. And, you know, in my line of work, we are also looking for life 
 
 on exoplanets out there in the universe. And that, too, was considered kind of fringe. And so, if UFOs are now mainstream, it means that what we do is 
 
 completely mainstream at this point. 
 
So, in a sense, it's kind of nice that needle has moved so far over that no one's really pointing things at us anymore. At the same time, I think 
 
 there's the alien issue and there's just the UFO issue. I think we should almost keep those separate. It totally makes sense to me that the U.S. 
 
 government would care about objects which are in their airspace, which pilots are seeing and cannot identify. So, that doesn't mean it's aliens. 
 
 It means there's perhaps something going on. And of course, it makes total sense to me that the U.S. government would have a high priority in trying 
 
 to figure out what that is. 
 
ASHER: So, just in terms of for the ordinary person who's sitting at home in their living room listening to part of this testimony, I mean, some 
 
 people are fascinated by this. Some people are obviously very skeptical. You know, what do we do with this information? 
 
KIPPING: You know, it's like Jerry Maguire says, show me the money, that's what I really want to see here. I want to see some real hard evidence. Like 
 
 I said, the U.S. pilots, they are flying so often, you actually count up how many hours U.S. military pilots fly, it's something like five to six 
 
 million hours per year. So, even if their error rate of misidentifying things was one in 10,000, let's say one of every 10,000 hours flown, you 
 
 would still expect 500 or more spurious reports of things they just couldn't identify. But that doesn't mean it's alien just because they're 
 
 seeing something strange. 
 
So, it's that kind of thing. I really want to get to the bottom of what is the error rate of these pilots? That's an entire new experiment. I don't 
 
 think anyone's actually attempted that experiment. And is there something more? Could we actually have some serious physical evidence that would 
 
 probably convince us all. But right, now it's all ambiguous. It's personal testimony. It's -- it's not enough skeptics or even I'd say I'm kind of in 
 
 the middle of those two worlds to be moved significantly by this. 
 
ASHER: Absolutely. I mean, it's fascinating nonetheless, but as you point out, I mean, at times first-hand accounts, sure, but, you know, we're also 
 
 hearing second, third-hand accounts, as well. So, that certainly does raise eyebrows. David, we have to leave it there. Thank you so much. 
 
KIPPING: Thank you.
 
ASHER: David Kipping of Columbia University. We appreciate you joining us. All right. A dramatic scene here in New York City earlier today. A crane 
 
 caught fire and collapsed in Midtown Manhattan. And it happened --there it goes. You see it sort of crashing into the side of an adjacent building 
 
 there. The crane's arm basically became detached and crashed down into the street. The fire department says that six people had minor injuries, but it 
 
 was certainly a close call for a lot of people who are on the street. I mean, this is a very, very busy part of Manhattan, and this happened in the 
 
 middle of the day, in the morning. 
 
All right, still to come here, a nation in chaos. That's, quote, "dangling over an abyss". Ahead, we'll look at Haiti's gang violence crisis and why 
 
 it matters. And later, there's a lot going wrong with climate change, but there's also actually a lot going right. Is it possible to be a climate 
 
 optimist? We'll take a look. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: A widely-reported plea deal for Hunter Biden, U.S. President Joe Biden's son, has fallen apart at a federal court in Delaware today. You can 
 
 actually see him entering the courthouse. There he is, highlighted there. That's in Wilmington. He was expected to plead guilty to two misdemeanors 
 
 over late tax payments as part of a deal with prosecutors to resolve a separate felony gun charge. Now, that deal is apparently in jeopardy, 
 
 casting new questions over Biden's legal troubles.
 
Evan Perez is joining us live now from Washington with more. So, Evan, this plea agreement appears to be in jeopardy, but I'm also hearing that there's 
 
 a lot of movement, things are changing. What more do we know? 
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR U.S. JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Things are changing. High drama at this courthouse in Wilmington, Delaware. Here's where we are 
 
 at this moment. The judge is asking questions of Hunter Biden, what he's willing to agree to. She had raised some concerns as to whether the 
 
 agreement that had been published, the one that had been made public whereby Hunter Biden agreed to plead guilty to two misdemeanor counts for 
 
 not paying his taxes on time in 2017 and 2018, and in a separate gun charge, whether all of this was connected, whether it meant that Hunter 
 
 Biden was protected from prosecution on anything else. And that's where things sort of fell apart. 
 
And at this hour, right now, it appears that the two sides, the Hunter Biden's lawyers and the prosecution have come to terms that there is a much 
 
 more limited scope, that Biden is protected under this deal, that he cannot be prosecuted for any of his taxes from 2014 to 2019, as well as his 
 
 possession of a gun at a time when he was addicted to drugs, which is a federal violation, a big, a major violation here in the United States. And 
 
 so, he can't be prosecuted for those things. But there is an ongoing investigation and there are other things that he could face some legal 
 
 jeopardy over. 
 
So, it appears for now that the agreement is back on. It's much more limited in scope than certainly we thought earlier in the day, but it does 
 
 come at the end of a lot of drama within this courtroom where the judge had to recess the proceedings to let the two sides try to figure out whether 
 
 they actually understood what Hunter Biden was agreeing to. Zain. 
 
ASHER: I mean, Hunter Biden has faced scrutiny for many years. Just walk us through what this means for the president and just what this means 
 
 politically as the president faces reelection. 
 
PEREZ: Well, this means that this is far from over. Certainly from a political standpoint, this investigation has been going on for five years. 
 
 It's an unusual amount of time for an investigation of this nature. Of course, as you pointed out, you know, it's not every day. Certainly, it's 
 
 not -- it's never happened before the son or the child of a sitting president has been brought into court and is pleading guilty to criminal 
 
 charges. That doesn't happen in U.S. history. So, the sitting president has been brought into court and is pleading guilty to criminal charges. 
 <br>[12:30:00]
 
That doesn't happen in U.S. history. So, on that end, we know that Republicans in Congress say that they have a lot of questions. They want to 
 
 hold hearings. They are even raising the prospect of doing an impeachment inquiry to look into whether Joe Biden benefited from any of his son's 
 
 overseas business dealings. And so that, we can anticipate, will continue. 
 
Of course, so far, Republicans have not really provided any proof that Joe Biden did benefit in any way from Hunter Biden's business dealings. But, 
 
 you know, sometimes that's not the point. It is politics. We are entering into an election year. And so, you can bet we will be hearing a lot more 
 
 about this in the months to come. Zain.
 
ASHER: Oh, yes, we will. That is for sure. Evan Perez, live for us there. Thank you so much. 
 
PEREZ: Thanks. 
 
ASHER: All right. Let's turn now to Haiti, which is, of course, a deeply impoverished nation paralyzed by rampant gang violence and corruption. And 
 
 what the U.N. warns is, "quote, dangling over an abyss". A series of natural disasters, of course, the COVID-19 pandemic and then the 
 
 assassination a couple of years ago of President Jovenel Moise have plunged the country into chaos. And with each passing month, political and security 
 
 situation continues to deteriorate. 
 
On Tuesday, crowds were dispersed from around the U.S. embassy, driven out by what appears to be tear gas. Inside the compound, staff were instructed 
 
 to stay put because of gunfire and gang activity. Ordinary Haitians, many of them afraid to leave their homes, say they are terrorized by a brutal 
 
 network of gangs that control pretty much nearly every aspect of life there. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): I don't know the reason for gang violence. Gangs just shoot and they ask for control of the area. They took our house 
 
 and we are in the street. We want help to go back home. To the Haitian government, we send this message because we want to come back home.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: For more, let's turn to CNN's Rafael Romo, who joins us live now from Atlanta. I mean, let's talk about what's happening in and around the 
 
 U.S. embassy there in Haiti. I mean, obviously, the U.S. has known about the situation in Haiti for quite some time. Just walk us through what 
 
 efforts have been made to keep embassy staff safe leading up to this point. 
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It seems like very few efforts, so far, Zain, and it all seems to have started with gang activity. Specifically, 
 
 gangs are laying siege to the Tabarre neighborhood of Port-au-Prince, the Haitian capital. Tabarre is also the neighborhood where the U.S. embassy is 
 
 located and that is an area that has been struck by violence in recent weeks. 
 
Just to give you an idea about how bad the situation has been Zain, in early July, the medical humanitarian charity Doctors Without Borders, also 
 
 known as Medecins Sans Frontieres, had stop their work at one of their hospitals in Tabarre precisely there, that same neighborhood. And they said 
 
 because around 20 armed men forcibly enter the hospital to remove a patient being treated for gunshot wounds from the operating room. Imagine that. 
 
The U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince called Tuesday for embassy personnel to remain inside the compound after three days of gang activity and gunfire 
 
 near the building. Haitian security forces are struggling to contain the gangs, especially after the assassination of President Jovenel Moise a 
 
 little over two years ago. Those criminal groups have assumed control of vast swaths of the country. 
 
And U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres appealed for the world to pay attention to the crisis in Haiti as he visited the country earlier in July 
 
 saying the following quote, the Haitian people are trapped in a living nightmare. Humanitarian conditions are beyond appalling. Brutal gangs have 
 
 a stranglehold on the people of Haiti. That's what Gutierrez said. 
 
He also made a plea, Zain, for what he called a robust security force deployed by member states to work together with Haitian police to defeat 
 
 and dismantle the gang. So far, no movement at the U.N. from member countries. So, it remains to be seen what the international community is 
 
 going to do about this. Zain, back to you. 
 
ASHER: All right. Rafael Romo, live for us there. Thank you so much. Kenya's opposition leader Raila Odinga suspended anti-government protests 
 
 on Wednesday because of what he's calling unprecedented police brutality. Instead, regional leaders held nationwide vigils to honor those who have 
 
 been killed in recent demonstrations against tax hikes and the rising cost of living. The government meanwhile is refuting claims of excessive use of 
 
 force calling them malicious and false. We'll be right back with more. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: Hello and welcome back to One World. Let's catch up on the headlines. Former U.S. Marine Trevor Reed is expected to make a full 
 
 recovery after he was wounded while serving alongside the Ukrainian forces fighting Russia. As sources tell CNN, Reed was injured by shrapnel about 
 
 two weeks ago after his unit was able to push back Russians and recapture two kilometers of land near Bakhmut. Reed is currently getting medical care 
 
 in Germany. 
 
At least one person was killed and two others injured when a powerful typhoon hit the Philippines earlier Wednesday. The storm caused flooding 
 
 and at least 16 landslides were reported throughout the country. The typhoon is expected to weaken as it heads towards South China. Algeria says 
 
 it has managed to contain all of the wildfires raging in its forests, state TV reported Monday. The death toll from the fires had risen to 34, 
 
 including soldiers. A fire comes as North Africa and the Mediterranean experience temperatures above 40 degrees Celsius amid a heat wave.
 
All right. There are two words that you rarely see together. Climate and optimism. But there's a growing movement that says, yes, of course, things 
 
 are bad, but we can fix it. Part of the problem is that the messaging around climate change needs to be more solution-oriented. Repeated images 
 
 of the new normal, including heat waves and wildfires, have an emotional effect. A 2021 Lancet study found climate change needs to be more solution-
 
 oriented. 
 <br>[12:40:00]
 
Repeated images of the new normal, including heat waves and wildfires, have an emotional effect. A 2021 Lancet study found nearly 60 percent of young 
 
 people, they surveyed, were very or extremely worried about climate change. Climate optimists say that action, or rather that anxiety, can lead to 
 
 inaction. 
 
In a "Vox" article, our World and Data Researcher, Hannah Ritchie, noted some positives in the climate fight, including the prices of solar and wind 
 
 power and low-carbon batteries have all plunged, and that global deforestation is slowly declining. She says coal is falling out of favor in 
 
 many countries, but she stresses optimism alone is not enough. She says that things will only improve if we fight for change. 
 
Time now for The Exchange. Our next guest says we can win this battle and in fact, we are making progress. Marcy Franck is the Author of the 
 
 newsletter called "The Climate Optimist" in addition to being the Senior Communication Strategist at Harvard's at Chan School of Public Health. 
 
 Marcy, thank you so much for being with us. I'm so keen to talk to you about this because I have been terrified by some of the things we're seeing 
 
 of course in Western Europe, for example, when it comes to the wildfires in North Africa, as well. Vermont -- parts of Vermont have been underwater, as 
 
 you well know. 
 
You know, I just read an article where Al Gore described some of the extreme weather events we're going to be seeing in the future as something 
 
 out of the book of revelations. When you think about Iran having temperatures of 150 degrees Fahrenheit, tell me why we should be optimistic 
 
 at this point. 
 
MARCY FRANCK, "THE CLIMATE OPTIMIST": Oh, well, first of all, thank you so much for having me, Zain. I love talking about climate optimism exactly for 
 
 the reasons that you're talking about, which is we're inundated with bad news stories, mostly about climate disasters that are unfolding around the 
 
 world. As we should, we should stay informed about these things. They're impacting lives on an incalculable scale. But the reason we can stay 
 
 optimistic is because we know how to prevent things from getting worse. We already have the solutions and technologies we need to be successful. 
 
One of the things that I find the most calming and that a lot of people are surprised to know is that actions we've already taken have already averted 
 
 some of the worst case scenarios that we thought were possible even just a few years ago. And within the last couple years alone, we've seen massive 
 
 progress rolling out climate solutions around the world. We are transitioning entire economies off of fossil fuels and changing the way we 
 
 produce energy, transport people and things, grow food and build buildings. 
 
And these are all the things that scientists say that we're supposed to be doing in order to prevent things from getting worse and creating a thriving 
 
 future, which is within our grasp. And one of the things that I think is really exciting is that we have evidence now that the efforts that we're 
 
 taking are actually working. For example, in 2022, emissions from the power sector rose less than one percent which was way less than we originally 
 
 feared. And that's because the efforts that we're doing are actually working. 
 
ASHER: So, Marcy, here's the thing though. So, the efforts, I mean, listen, there are so many global initiatives. I mean, California, for example, is 
 
 banning the sale of new gas-powered cars from 2035 onwards. I have no doubt that that's gonna make an impact. I think my question to you and I think my 
 
 real concern is that the pace of the effects of climate change are really troubling. 
 
So, if you look at some of the weather events we're seeing this summer, compared to last summer, compared to the previous summer, it seems to be 
 
 getting way worse, far quicker than I anticipated. And so, even though, you know, a lot of these global initiatives are working and we're reducing 
 
 carbon emissions, are we doing it quickly enough, Marcy? 
 
FRANCK: Well, we can always go faster. We actually do need to go faster. And one of the things I think a climate optimist needs to do is use all of 
 
 these impacts that we see that are very scary and use them as motivation to get involved, to be part of the fight, and to seek out actions that are 
 
 happening around us where we can get involved and make a difference. 
 
ASHER: You know, and I love that point, that we can all do something. I think that I'm just gonna be completely transparent. 
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
One of the things that I struggle with is, personally, I sort of think to myself, well, you know, if we're gonna reverse what's happening to the 
 
 climate, that is really any change, any positive change is going to be led by governments. It's going to be led by corporations. It's going to be 
 
 about the U.S. and China, the two largest polluters working together. I worry about whether or not I, as one person, one individual, can really 
 
 make a difference. Is me recycling, you know, my Evian bottle really actually going to have an impact? 
 
So, what do you say to people who are, you know, like me, who think that, you know, it's really about corporations and nations and it's, you know, 
 
 we're past the point where individuals can really make a difference. What do you say to people who think that way? 
 
FRANCK: I don't think we're past that point at all. In fact, there are everyday people like you and me getting involved in larger efforts already 
 
 underway that are making huge differences in their local area. So, this is an instance where we should look local and look around to see what's 
 
 available for opportunities to get involved. So, some of the most impactful work that you can do is advocate for policies in your local area that will 
 
 make it easy to bring green energy and energy efficiency initiatives to your area. 
 
So, things like easing the way for wind and solar farms to get built in your town or making it easier for people to install rooftop solar or build 
 
 community solar programs or installing more EV cheap, EV chargers around your neighborhood. Oftentimes, these initiatives require champions on the 
 
 ground pushing for policies that are going to make these things successful and that's where we come in, that's where we can make the most impact. 
 
ASHER: Thank you for making me feel so much better. You know, I actually interviewed a climate author just last week whose book was titled, "The 
 
 Heat Will Kill You First". So, I haven't actually been able to sleep for the last few days. But Marcy, I'm really happy that we spoke and you know, 
 
 I'm glad that you're offering some reassurance in this conversation, but it is up to all of us to actually chip in and do more, as you point out. 
 
 Marcy, thank you so much. Thank you so much for joining us. 
 
FRANCK: Thank you for having me.
 
ASHER: All right, coming up. The late Hip Hop Artist, Tupac Shakur, has had gold records. Now, another one of his gold possessions is setting records, 
 
 as well. Details after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: The CEO of one of the UK's biggest banks has resigned after admitting to leaking financial details of Brexit campaigner Nigel Farage to 
 
 BBC News. Alison Rose, boss of NatWest, apologized to Farage Tuesday and called it a serious error of judgement. Last month, Farage, who is now a TV 
 
 host, said that he had been dropped as a customer by a prestigious private British bank that's owned by NatWest. 
 <br>[12:50:00]
 
Farage said he believed the decision to close his account was actually due to his political views. That appeared to be later confirmed by a copy of 
 
 the bank's records. The growing field of fintech is truly a global sector and it has a significant footprint in Africa where companies across the 
 
 continent are innovating on how to do business. On this edition of Africa Insider, we head to Zimbabwe to visit one such firm, Cashlinq. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TENDAI ELVIS MUGOVI, CEO AND CO-FOUNDER OF CASHLINQ: FinTech is very important for the future of the continent because in a continent where 
 
 majority of the people are living under poverty. FinTech offers one easy way to transform the lives of people in the shortest period of time. My 
 
 name is Tendai Elvis Mugovi. I am the CEO and Co-Founder of Cashlinq. 
 
Cashlinq platform is used to power a variety of fintech services such as digital only banks, TOKO wallets and fintechs in various spaces such as 
 
 peer-to-peer payments, savings, lendings and remittances. Cashlinq is different from other companies and the market because it's a system that 
 
 was developed from the ground up with African realities in mind. 
 
The African market is different to the rest of the banking sectors across the world in two main areas. One, the majority of our population have low 
 
 disposable income. So, the banking products that they should be given is very different to the rest of the world. Second, it's a very volatile 
 
 market, both regulatory and in terms of consumer market. KEVIN KALUWA, IT MANAGER, TELECASH, CASHLINQ CLIENT: We had reservations using Cashlinq, speaking to a young team who are just starting off, it 
 
 really takes a bit of courage from us to sort of entrust them with such a big task. There are certain distinct advantages of having a vendor who is 
 
 very close to the market that you're operating in because obviously they understand the market and they understand the changes that you would 
 
 require. 
 
UNKNOWN: How can we bank those people who are struggling to get $2 --$3? So, you can't do these traditional same thing where you charge them $5 a 
 
 month to just open a code. So, I think Cashlinq enables people to really think not in a conventional way. In living in a continent where majority of 
 
 the people live under serious poverty, I'm motivated to do what I do. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: The late Rapper Tupac Shakur set a lot of records in his career. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: And now the California love artist has set one more. This gold ruby and diamond crown ring is the most valuable hip hop artifact ever sold at 
 
 auction. That's according to Sotheby's, which auctioned off the ring for $1 million. Tuba commissioned the ring in 1996, which is the year he died. He 
 
 wore it at his final public appearance at the 1996 MTV Video Music Awards. All right. Thank you so much for watching One World. I'm Zain Asher. 
 
 Amanpour is up next. You're watching CNN.
 
END