Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Erdogan, Putin to Meet for Talks in Coming Hours; Ramaphosa: No Evidence South Africa Supplied Arms to Russia; Gabon Junta Leader to be Sworn in as Transitional President; Pope Visits Mongolia. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired September 04, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Africa in particular and Russia is making a great point out of that. When President Putin met in St. Petersburg recently with those African leaders, his point was, it's not my fault that our grain is not getting through. So what TASS, the Russian news agency is saying that Putin and Erdogan will discuss will be the UN Grain Deal -- the original Black Sea Grain Deal. Possibly the use of Turkey as a midpoint for Russian to Europe, gas, natural gas. 
 
And the other thing that Putin is going to put forward apparently, according to TASS, according to their sources, is the Russian idea of a new Black Sea Grain Deal for them, whereby their grain goes to, goes to Turkey and then is on shipped from there. This is something that they say is supported by Qatar. 
 
Obviously, that's something of a red line for the Ukrainians who are saying you need to thwart -- you need to thwart any efforts by Russia to sort of circumvent the Black Sea Grain Deal, the UN Secretary General wrote to Sergey Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister, last week and said here we have a concrete plan for you. These are the proposals. These are the steps. The Russian pushback on that is we're given promises, not guarantees. 
 
But I think it's worth resetting and remembering here that Russia's war of choice led to its inability to get its grain and fertilizer at a global market. The war it started is the cause of its pain. But it does appear as if Russia wants more out of the deal. They pulled out a month ago. Ukraine wants to keep going with it. 
 
NOBILO: And let's turn now to our senior international correspondent, David McKenzie, who's in Johannesburg. David, so South Africa was accused of shipping arms to Russia. They've said that there's no evidence of that, but how thorough and transparent was this investigation? 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bianca, some of that evidence they are going to keep under wraps because the President of South Africa says it is information that is private or rather is classified. Because they do admit and they do confirm that they were arms brought by that vessel ordered in 2018 to South Africa for the South African military. Now you'll remember this intriguing story and these images of this
 
 sanctioned Russian vessel arriving in South Africa in December. 
 
And now the very unusual move from the U.S. government through their ambassador criticizing South Africa, saying they had evidence that weapons and ammunitions was loaded back onto that vessel bound for Russia. 
 
And for his part, the ambassador saying, we are confident that weapons were loaded onto that vessel and I would bet my life on the accuracy of that assertion. 
 
Well, now the President of South Africa saying this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CYRIL RAMAPHOSA, SOUTH AFRICAN PRESIDENT: When all matters are considered, none of the allegations made about the supply of weapons to Russia have been proven to be true. And none of the persons who made these allegations, could provide any evidence to support the claims that had been leveled against our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MCKENZIE: Now the question is where that information by the U.S. government came from. I think both sides are looking to put this matter to bed. But certainly, I don't think necessarily it's going away anytime soon -- Bianca, Max. 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR:  Yes. So where do you think then, David, this does leave the relations between South Africa and the U.S.? Because there's been so many tensions, haven't there? Since the Russian invasion in particular. 
 
MCKENZIE: That's right. The South Africa has long stated has a non- aligned outlook on the war in Ukraine and taking sides is not something they've wanted to do. But it has been criticized for taking sides in some way with Russia, by mostly Western powers. So this latest wrinkle may ease tensions somewhat. 
 
You did go through a period of the most tense, I think diplomatic relations between the U.S. and South Africa for some years. There is a sense that that is easing. You have a major economic summit here in Johannesburg in the coming months that will be attended by senior. U.S. officials, I'm sure. 
 
But the question remains is, are the efforts of the U.S. and Europe to isolate Putin working when you have countries like South Africa and all over the African continent and Asia that seem much more willing to do business with Russia. But for this case specifically, the South Africans saying, nothing untoward happened -- Max. 
 
FOSTER: OK, David McKenzie in Johannesburg. Thank you so much. Also, Nic here in London. 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: A look now at some of the severe weather happening across the globe. Typhoon Haikui is headed toward China's Fujian province and is expected to weaken to a tropical storm by Tuesday. 
 
FOSTER: More than 40 people were injured when the typhoon hit Taiwan, but no fatalities were reported. As the storm approached the island, some 7,000 people rushed to flee their homes. Taiwan's electricity provider is still working to restore power to 10s of thousands of customs. More than 200 flights have been delayed or canceled, offices were closed and schools suspended in several counties and cities. 
 
Now in Spain storm warnings are in effect through Monday for cities from Madrid to Barcelona. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
NOBILO: It's all on the heels of massive flooding from the storm, known as Dana. One visitor said he and other travelers had to act quickly to stay safe as torrential rain swept across the country. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JUAN CARLOS PENAFIEL, VISITING FROM BARCELONA (through translator): We organized amongst ourselves to make ropes with towels and bed sheets and use them to pull two young men who were grabbing onto columns. We pulled them to the top floor and saved them. It was terrifying, very, very scary, with small children, women, nobody showed up. We were left alone to save ourselves. It was terrifying.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NOBILO: Officials are warning against unnecessary travel in the Madrid area today and Atletico Madrid's match with Sevilla has been postponed. 
 
FOSTER: And in northeastern Greece, firefighters are dealing with Europe's deadliest blaze this summer. The wildfire has been blamed for the deaths of at least 20 people. It's destroyed homes and businesses and burned through forests. Though wildfires are common in Greece during the northern summer, the government says climate change has made them much more intense this year. 
 
NOBILO: Scientists are racing to understand a highly mutated coronavirus variant. BA286 has made an evolutionary leap similar to the one the original Omicron variant made almost two years ago. 
 
FOSTER: If you remember, the Omicron wave was caused -- well, it caused infections and hospitalizations to spike to their highest point in the pandemic in the U.S. 
 
NOBILO: But early lab tests are easing fears. One scientist saying that the new variant is not, quote, the second coming of Omicron. 
 
FOSTER: Preliminary results in China find that the variant appears less infectious than previous viruses. And the Swedish study is finding our antibodies do not appear to be powerless against this. NOBILO: Still to come, Gabon's military is set to swear in a
 
 transitional president after seizing power from the previous leader last week. We'll have the latest for you. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
FOSTER: World leaders, scientists and environmental activists are convening in Nairobi to address the urgent consequences of climate change. The three-day Africa summit -- the Africa Climate Summit 23 will explore solutions to the particular impacts climate change is having and will have on the continent. 
 
NOBILO: Participants are putting particular focus on drought and other weather-related developments, the changing climate escalating impact on migration and ways to fund climate mitigation initiatives in countries saddled with debt. 
 
In the day ahead, the leader of Gabon's military coup is set to be sworn in as the country's transitional president. It comes almost a week after Gen. Brice Oligui Nguema and members of Gabon's presidential guard seized power from President Ali Bongo. 
 
FOSTER: The coup ended the political dynasty of the Bongo family, which has been in power for more than 50 years. It also marked the 8th military takeover in West and Central Africa in three years. 
 
CNN's Stephanie Busari joins us live from Lagos. Steph, it appears then they got away with it. 
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR, AFRICA: Well, Max, yes, in effect later on in about an hour and a half, Gen. Brice Oligui Nguema will be sworn in as transitional president. We don't quite know what that means. And he has said that he will give democratic -- give way to democratic rule, but it hasn't quite outlined a specific timeline for that to happen. And we know that opposition leaders in Gabon who claim to have won the election in which President Ali Bongo Ondimba was declared the winner and which kind of triggered the events that led to this coup. 
 
They are in talks with Oligui and his counterparts to say that actually the power belongs to us. We won the elections. We were rigged out. We're not quite sure where we are with those negotiations. But with the swearing Nguema appears to be solidifying his grip on power. He's been talking about what that transition looks like. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEN. BRICE OLIGUI NGUEMA, GABON COUP LEADER (through translator): The dissolution of the institutions of the Republic is temporary. The aim is to reorganize them to make them more democratic tools. More in line with international standards in terms of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, but also in the fight against corruption, which has become commonplace in our country, money laundering and above all, the preservation of the environment. Which is a battle dear to our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BUSARI: So Nguema is under some pressure to say when exactly he will give way to this democratic transition and not all countries have recognized his rule or his leadership. Because quite frankly, military coups are not the way forward and kind of ousting even unpopular leaders like Ali Bongo, who had been in power for 14 years and was about to start another term, and his father before him, remember was in power for nearly 42 years. So even in those circumstances and with the people of Gabon very happy that they've been deposed, military coups have not been typically the way forward to bring the kind of leadership that people want in these instances -- Max. 
 
NOBILO: And Stephanie, France has deep historic colonial ties to Gabon and has been very critical of the coup and rejected it. Although previously people have criticized France for not using its influence to try and buttress democratic principles and institutions in the countries that it's tied to in Africa. Where did they stand now on this swearing in? 
 
BUSARI: Yes, so France says they're watching this situation very closely and they have many vested interests in the country with billions of trades in dollars in every year. And the French troops stationed there. But you're right, France has come under criticism for turning a blind eye to leaders like Ali Bongo and his father before him. 
 
Next door neighboring Cameroon is a 90-year-old President, Paul Biya, who has been in power since 1982. A close ally of France, and who doesn't even spend much time in Cameroon, a country he's supposed to govern. He goes between Geneva and France. And there are many leaders like this who are accused of running democratic dictatorships. 
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
And whom France has very close ties with and doesn't really kind of intervene to say actually this is not right. 
 
FOSTER: OK, Steph, thank you so much. 
 
Now the Mexican Senator Xochitl Galvez is the new opposition candidate for that nation's presidential election. Next year, she'll face off against the party of incumbent President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who is required to step down at the end of his six-year term. 
 
NOBILO: Galvez is a 60-year-old computer engineer with a straightforward and sometimes, some might say, salty way of speaking. She's hoping to become Mexico's first female president and her most likely opponent is another woman, former Mexico City Mayor Claudia Sheinbaum. 
 
FOSTER: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, vowing to take strong steps following the riots Saturday amongst Eritrean migrants in Tel Aviv. He called a special ministers meeting on Sunday to create a plan to deal with the migrants involved and said he wants to deport them. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): This is rioting. It is bloodshed. It is savageness that we cannot accept. Therefore, the first thing that I'm going to do is to wish a recovery to the policemen who were injured in the effort to restore order. We are seeking strong steps against the rioters, including the immediate expulsion of those who took part.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
FOSTER: That riot erupted during an Eritrean Independence Day celebration near the embassy on Saturday, when Eritrean government supporters clashed with opponents. Israeli authorities say at least 114 people were hurt, including 49 police officers. 
 
NOBILO: Pope Francis is on his way home from Mongolia a day after celebrating mass in a country where the Catholic community of only about 1,500 people. It was the first ever trip there by a pontiff. And during Mass the Pope urged Catholics in neighboring China to be good citizens and good Christians. A rare instance of the Holy Father publicly addressing the issue of religion in China. CNN's Michael Holmes has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A gathering of the faithful, in one of the smallest and most remote communities of Catholics in the world.
 
On Sunday, Pope Francis celebrated mass in Mongolia, a country with a population of around 3 million people, but only about 1,500 are Catholics. And nearly all of them came to see the pontiff.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I'm so happy that Pope Francis visited Mongolia. I got emotional when I attended mass. I think it furthered my spirit. I'm very, very thankful.
 
HOLMES (voice-over): But Vatican watchers say this trip to Mongolia wasn't just about spreading the church's message to a country where no Pope has visited before. It was also strategic and a chance to ease tension with two of Mongolia's neighbors, China and Russia.
 
Relations between the Vatican and Moscow have deteriorated since the invasion of Ukraine. And there have been tensions with Beijing over its treatment of religious minorities and a controversial agreement to jointly appoint bishops in China.
 
But on Saturday, in words thought to be directed at China and Russia, the Pope said the Church is not a threat to governments and secular institutions.
 
And during mass, he made yet another overturned by sending greetings to his Chinese followers. POPE FRANCIS, LEADER OF CATHOLIC CHURCH (through translator): To the people, I wish the best and to go ahead. Always make progress. To Chinese Catholics, I ask you to be good Christians and good citizens.
 
HOLMES (voice-over): Some small groups of worshippers traveled from China for the service, which was more of a low-key affair than other papal trips that can draw over a million people.
 
But this woman, who came from Hong Kong, said it was worth the journey.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How did it feel?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Very amazing. Yes, because he is my Papa. And then when they had the -- I joined -- today I joined the mass. I feel very amazing.
 
HOLMES (voice-over): The pope leaves Mongolia, no doubt encouraging the Catholic base there. Whether he made any headway with Mongolia's neighbors remains to be seen. 
 
Michael Holmes, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FOSTER: Tennis star Novak Djokovic is inching closer to his 24th Grand Slam title. Unbelievable, isn't it? Details of his resounding victory at the U.S. Open up next.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
FOSTER: Four crew members who undocked from the International Space Station on Sunday are back on dry land. Well, sort of. They splashed down off the coast of Jacksonville, Florida shortly after midnight. You can see one of them being helped out of the capsule here. Two NASA astronauts and astronaut from the United Arab Emirates and the Russian cosmonaut have been aboard the space station since March. They are placed on stretchers because their bodies have yet to adjust to the gravity after all that weightlessness. 
 
NOBILO: Racing driver Max Verstappen has won the Italian Grand Prix. The Dutchman has broken the record for consecutive Formula One wins with 10 in a row. 
 
FOSTER: The 25-year-old star has now won 47 races in total. That puts him 5th on the list of all time Formula One greats. His next race is the Singapore Grand Prix, which is on September the 17th. 
 
NOBILO: Novak Djokovic swept past Croatia's Borna Gojo in straight sets on Sunday to book his place in the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open. The 23-time Grand Slam singles champion will face 9th seeded American Taylor Fritz on Tuesday. Djokovic is chasing a record extending 24th Grand Slam title. And some stories in the spotlight this hour for you. A young Ukrainian
 
 girl is showing the world her resilience and strength. 12-year-old Yana, wearing the pink shirt. If you look closely there, she's just left of center. Lost both her legs last year when Russian forces shelled the Kramatorsk railway station. 
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
As you can see, she's not only walking, she's now running in races. 
 
FOSTER: Yana ran 70 meters of the Lviv Unbroken Half Marathon on Sunday. She told the Lviv City Council that her goal was to encourage other children who have lost limbs in the war to show them that they can run again too. It's a sign of defiance, isn't it? It's brilliant. 
 
NOBILO: and that fortitude is just something else. It's so incredible. 
 
And switching gears to Broadway. 
 
FOSTER: Lea Michele's closing night performance as Fanny Bryce in Funny Girl earned her seven standing ovations. Can you believe it? She starred on the Broadway revival of the musical for a full year, until her farewell, which was on Sunday night. 
 
NOBILO: Michele treated the audience to a bonus song of "My Man", which Barbra Streisand sang during her closing night in the role. The revival under Michele broke box office records and was a dream come true for the Glee star. 
 
FOSTER: Glee. That was it. 
 
NOBILO: Yes, that's where you know --. 
 
FOSTER: It was ringing a bell. 
 
NOBILO: As fans mourn the death of music legend Jimmy Buffett, we're learning more about the health battles that he faced in his final years. 
 
FOSTER: Yes, Buffett died on Friday after a four-year battle with Merkel cell cancer, a rare and aggressive form of skin cancer. On Sunday, hundreds of fans gathered in his former hometown of Key West, Florida to honor his life and his career. 
 
The crowd marched down the city's main drag in a parade with roots in another city Buffett had deep ties to, and that was New Orleans. All that color as well, it really reflected him. 
 
Thanks for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster. 
 
NOBILO: And I'm Bianca Nobilo. "EARLY START" is up next right here on CNN. 
 <br>[05:00:00]