Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Zelenskyy Fires Defense Minister; Africa's First-Ever Climate Summit gets Underway in Kenya; European Stocks Higher as New Week Kicks Off; IEA Head: Africa has Huge Solar Potential; Bonis: Printing Buildings Saves Times; Some Vehicles Leave Burning Man Site. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired September 04, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST, FIRST MOVE: A warm welcome to "First Move", great to have you with us for another action packed Monday and just ahead 
 
 this hour Sochi Summit, Russian President Putin and Turkish Leader Erdogan holding talks in the Russian port city.
 
Vladimir Putin saying he is open to renegotiating the Black Sea Grain Export Deal, despite continued attacks on Ukraine's grain infrastructure. 
 
 Plus, defense deliberations Ukrainian President Zelenskyy nominates a new Defense Minister at a critical juncture in the country's war effort.
 
He cited the need for "new approaches in the conflict". And climate crunch African leaders and more gathering in Nairobi, Kenya today for the first 
 
 ever Africa summit to address the climate crisis and find financial solutions to help mitigate the impact. We'll discuss Africa's energy 
 
 challenge and its renewable potential with Fatih Birol, the Head of the International Energy Agency that's coming up on the show.
 
Also garden grows shares of Chinese property developer Country Garden rising 20 percent on Monday after the firm's biggest creditor allowed to 
 
 delay in bond repayments. The news also helping as you can well imagine a relief rally in Asia stocks with the HANG SENG up 2.5 percent in Monday's 
 
 trade.
 
All this after Beijing announced a wide array of economic support measures last week that continued to provide a lift. Europe also in the green though 
 
 with lighter trade due to the U.S. Labor Day holiday, markets has shut the Wall Street bulls chalking up solid gains though last week helped along by 
 
 market friendly jobs numbers and in line inflation data.
 
So it's a day of rest on Wall Street but no rest here for the team on "First Move", and we do begin today's show in Ukraine. Overnight, Russia 
 
 launched a sizable attack on civilian infrastructure in Ukraine's Odessa region, and a drone attack in the east, officials reporting destruction to 
 
 warehouses, industrial buildings and agricultural equipment.
 
Meanwhile, President Zelenskyy announcing a major military shakeup, as I mentioned, replacing his Defense Minister as his country enters the 19th 
 
 month of all.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: Oleksiy Reznikov has been through more than 550 days of full scale war. I believe that the ministry 
 
 needs new approaches and other formats of interaction with both the military and society as a whole.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Melissa Bell joins us now. I think one can only imagine the demands that being a Defense Minister in this kind of environment, that 
 
 toll it takes on you and we should point out that the Defense Minister already said he planned to resign. What can we say about his replacement, 
 
 Melissa? He's got an interesting CV and obviously grew up in Crimea.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right, Julia. He's a Crimean Tatar and he's widely seen as a fairly safe pair of hands. He's got a business 
 
 background, but he has been involved in political and administrative roles before and specifically involved in this war being involved in some of the 
 
 prisoner of war exchanges that have taken place since the Russian invasion began.
 
He was also by the way, a part of the negotiation of the Black Sea Grain initiative that is once again being discussed again, in Sochi killed as it 
 
 was by Vladimir Putin a while back. And it was Rustem Umerov himself who at the time that the first grain deal had been struck, had warned that Russia 
 
 might not stick the landing and stay with it.
 
So he is seen as a widely competent man who can take over at a very critical time, which we're talking about, is taking over a Defense Ministry 
 
 that has been plagued by corruption allegations. There have been allegations concerning procurement contracts to do that had to do largely 
 
 with Ukrainian weapon contracts and Ukrainian taxpayer money.
 
But nonetheless, these kinds of incidents and corruption allegations have overshadowed so much over the last 18 months and of course, although 
 
 Oleksiy Reznikov also widely credited with having done an extremely good job at it extremely difficult post, leaves at his own request.
 
And amid a great deal of praise, it is also a way for Kyiv to put behind them these 18 months where that ministry was dogged by those allegations. 
 
 We've seen a number of resignations, a number of sackings, and a number of arrests as a result and there are a clear determination on the part of Kyiv 
 
 to say look that is behind us.
 
We are now sorting things out. And this is of course not just about pursuing the war effort as difficult as that is, Julia.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
But it is also about reassuring NATO allies that they can continue to give their weapons to Kyiv but also looking ahead to Kyiv's hoped for membership 
 
 of NATO at some point and the European Union beyond that of course Mr. Umerov takes over at an extremely critical juncture in that.
 
This is the point, Julia, 19 months into the war, when Kyiv was not only trying to extend its own weaponry ability, its ability of its weapons to 
 
 reach Russia and to take this war to Russian soil, as it's been doing in a more and more determined and clear manner, but also to convince NATO 
 
 members of the need to keep supplying some of the weaponry.
 
That is now needed on the frontlines where Ukraine believes they're making a difference. They're looking of course at increasing ramping up interest 
 
 to trading but the procurement of F-16s, but there are other pieces of equipment that are Kyiv is going to be looking to its partners to supply.
 
As it feels now that it finally has some momentum behind it as it seeks to push through the Zaporizhzhia front lines and make consolidate rather the 
 
 very limited yet significant gains that it's been making these last few days, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. Melissa Bell, thank you so much for that. And Vladimir Putin says he's open to negotiations on the Black Sea Grain Deal. After 
 
 withdrawing from the U.N. brokered initiative in July, the Russian President is hosting his Turkish counterpart in talks in Sochi.
 
President Erdogan looking to convince the Russian Leader to re-enter the deal, restart global grain exports and help contain food price inflation. 
 
 Nic Robertson joins us now on this. Nic, the Kremlin has indicated all the way along that they were willing to re-negotiate this. The problem is what 
 
 they want in return? What does that look like?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: We don't know precisely. And I suspect President Erdogan is finding out something about 
 
 that right now. What we know is that Russia is frustrated that it's not getting enough of its agricultural products and fertilizer to the 
 
 international market.
 
So it's also frustrated that it's sort of cut off from some international financial institutions. And this does appear to be at the root of why 
 
 Russia pulled out of that deal, remembering that this was a deal, of course, that was in two parts, the Black Sea Grain Deal, there was the 
 
 U.N.-Turkey, Ukraine part and the parallel U.N.-Turkey, Russia part.
 
They weren't one in the same deal. But they had to go together. And when Russia pulled out, it sank the whole deal in its totality. Now, Ukraine has 
 
 been trying to get the Black Sea grain corridor up and running. It's moved five ships successfully over the past month.
 
But not this is not by any means the grain deal in itself. So how does Putin intend to get to the point where he gets what he wants, and as they 
 
 say, we don't know what he wants behind the scenes. We do know from the Foreign Minister, that they're blaming the situation on the West that 
 
 they're saying, look, promises have been made, that things will go faster.
 
We'll get what we want. He said their promises, we need guarantees. And what Putin has been talking about lately as an alternate grain corridor, or 
 
 an alternate grain deal just for Russia, where Russia would ship its grain to Turkey and Turkey would ship it onwards to the world to Africa in 
 
 principle.
 
So that's perhaps the leverage that Putin thinks he goes into this meeting with. But the U.N. says specifically, there are concrete offers. And this 
 
 does seem to be what President Erdogan will be trying to push forward here, this going back to the original grain deal, of course, Ukrainians have been 
 
 very clear to the international community.
 
And particularly to Turkey, that there's no way that Putin should be allowed to sort of do an end run around that original grain deal. And of 
 
 course, Ukraine points out that since Russia pulled out of that grain deal. It has targeted multiple times, grain storage, and port facilities, which 
 
 they would say gives light to the fact that Russia wants to maintain food supplies to the world.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, including overnight and in the hours before this meeting, too. We'll see what comes of it. Nic Robertson, thank you so much for that 
 
 there. Now in the world's, top 20 economies meet later this week in New Delhi. They will likely be doing so without Chinese President Xi Jinping.
 
It will be the first time President Xi has skipped the gathering with Chinese Premier Li Qiang taking his place. U.S. President Joe Biden says 
 
 he's "disappointed" and expects to see President Xi in the future. As Kristie Lu stout, reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Will Chinese Leader Xi Jinping, attend the G 20 Summit in India later this week? Well, according to China's 
 
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Premier Li Qiang will be at the gathering in New Delhi and this is the clearest sign yet that Xi is not attending the 
 
 summit amid speculation that he would be a no show.
 
Today Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning said this "At the invitation of the government of the Republic of India, Premier of the State Council Li 
 
 Qiang will attend the 18th G20 Summit to be held in New Delhi, India on September 9 and 10."
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
There was no mention of Xi in this statement. Now Xi has attended all other in person G 20 meetings since becoming President in 2013. In 2021, during 
 
 the COVID 19 pandemic, he joined via video link. At this year's G 20, Xi would be missing out on key conversations on climate in Ukraine.
 
And his expected no show New Delhi comes is China and India clash over a border dispute. It also comes as China battles a number of economic 
 
 challenges with one of the country's largest homebuilders warning of default. On Sunday, the U.S. President Joe Biden told reporters that he was 
 
 disappointed that Xi was not attending the summit, but suggested that he will be meeting with him in the future.
 
And Biden did not elaborate U.S. tensions and tensions with China have flared over Taiwan trade and territorial disputes in the South China Sea 
 
 and in a bid to stabilize the relationship. A number of senior Biden officials have visited China in recent months, including the U.S. Commerce 
 
 Secretary.
 
President Biden previously told CNN that he would be meeting with Xi Jinping in the fall, and they may still have an opportunity to speak on the 
 
 sidelines of the APEC summit in San Francisco in November. Biden and Xi last spoke on the sidelines of the G 20 in Bali last November.
 
And that has been the only in person encounter between the two leaders since Biden took office in 2021. Kristie Lu Stout CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Now the General who staged a coup in Gabon last week has formally taken the title of Interim President of the nation. General Nguema 
 
 was sworn in by Gabon's Constitutional Court judges just a short time ago. According to AFP, Nguema pledged to stage free and transparent elections 
 
 but did not specify when.
 
And also on the continent heads of more than a dozen African nations, U.S. Climate Envoy John Kerry and the U.N. Secretary General are among those 
 
 convening in Nairobi, Kenya for a three day summit to discuss the region's worsening climate change emergency.
 
The continent is home to some of the most climate vulnerable nations in the world and is among the least responsible too, for the emissions leading to 
 
 manmade climate change. Opening the event, Kenya's President William Ruto emphasized that Africa can adapt and also thrive in the still nascent 
 
 alternative energy marketplace.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILLIAM RUTO, KENYAN PRESIDENT: For a very long time, we have looked at this as a problem. It is time we flipped and looked at it from the other 
 
 side. There are opportunities, immense opportunities as well.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Leaders at the summit hope to agree on a common environmental platform ahead of the COP 28 Climate Summit in Dubai later this year. Larry 
 
 Madowo joins us now from Nairobi. Larry, clearly, the first of its kind looking to galvanize greater investment interest, I think can help aid the 
 
 transition to more renewable energies, what concrete is expected to come from this summit?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: What President Ruto, talks about there is that there needs to be this stop to this division between the global north 
 
 and global south about how to best respond to the climate crisis. And he pointed out that Africa's carbon footprint is limited.
 
But the human toll of climate change is felt most greatly here. I want to talk to Dr. Dahiru Muhammad, who is from Nigeria from Kano state. You're 
 
 here at the Africa Climate Summit. What do you think is the most important outcome this -- ?
 
DR. DAHIRU MUHAMMAD HASHIM, NIGERIAN DELEGATE: When I think they should be a wakeup call to the global notes, so that they can fulfill the pledge of 
 
 100 billion climate funds, it will support African countries and other developing countries in addressing these climate issues because we have 
 
 been at the receiving end and coming from a continent that contributes less than 4 percent of the emission level.
 
I think this is an excellent start for us, because that shows our seriousness and how Africa is willing to address the issues of climate 
 
 crisis globally.
 
MADOWO: You come from Northern Nigeria you're very close to Sahel, where some of the direst impacts of the climate crisis can be seen. What do you 
 
 hope for going into COP 28?
 
HASHIM: What I hope that issues, particularly surrounding this climate finances will be along gone history so that we don't have to be debating on 
 
 them last year in -- . We had the same discussion on climate finance in Glasgow. We had the same discussion on climate finance.
 
It should be a high time that we address all these issues and countries I will as opposed to keep on to their place the nationally determined 
 
 contributions from both the developed countries and the developing ones.
 
MADOWO: Do you feel as an African there's a lot of promises from the global north but no commitments to them?
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
HASHIM: Absolutely, there is, the climate finance is a pointer to that.
 
MADOWO: OK there are the things, Dr. Mohammed, thank you so much. And I think you hear that at every meeting in Glasgow in Sharm el-Sheikh, Julia. 
 
 These issues have come up again and again and again. And everybody agrees there should be some discussion of loss and damage, but the actual 
 
 contribution is just not coming.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. The follow through on that required. Larry Madowo, thank you so much for that. Straight ahead, we'll be continuing the conversation 
 
 speaking to the Head of the International Energy Agency who says there are immense opportunities that await the continent. If it can harness its 
 
 renewable energy potential, perhaps it could use some of that money too -- . We'll back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move", China is considering placing limits on screen time for children and teenagers in a bid to curb internet 
 
 addiction and cultivate "good morality". All devices would be required to have a built in minor mode which would restrict screen time based on age. 
 
 We've got too. Ivan Watson has more on the proposals and the reaction to them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It's an all too familiar seeing a child begs his mom for one more, minute on her phone, a 
 
 daily battle over devices. China's answer minor mode, a proposed law to order tech giants to limit children's screen time and shut off apps. For 
 
 one tired parent the proposed rules would be a relief.
 
CRYSTAL GUO, MOTHER: This would be wonderful. If it were true, there would be less anger between us mother and son. He just can't keep his phone out 
 
 of his hands.
 
WATSON (voice-over): Under the new mode children under 18, will get a maximum of two hours on smartphones per day and will be locked out 
 
 overnight. But Beijing's top down approach has its critics.
 
ANDREW COLLIER, MANAGING DIRECTOR OF ORIENT CAPITAL RESEARCH: The broader worry I have is that China under the current leadership is imposing a very 
 
 strict cultural moralism on their citizens, which is not going to be necessarily helpful for their personal growth or for the future of the 
 
 Chinese economy.
 
WATSON (voice-over): As part of China's broader digital crackdown, minors are already banned from gaming on weekdays.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
Social media apps have time limits and some parents ship their children off to boot camps to kick internet addiction. Mengtai Zhang, who was sent to 
 
 one of these camps at 16, says Beijing's latest rules won't work.
 
MENGTAI ZHANG, ATTENDED INTERNET ADDICTION CAMP: Without those structural changes, limiting children's time on video games won't change anything for 
 
 the addiction. If they find a way to create a more meaningful space for children to spend their time together and have their parents relax from the 
 
 work, the situation would be much better.
 
WATSON (voice-over): Children are also finding ways around Beijing's rules. This 10 year old explains. Some kids use their parents ID to log in. They 
 
 never put their phones down. They'll look at it until the battery runs out. The new guidelines order internet providers to highlight socialist and 
 
 patriotic content and promote family values. This mom hopes the rules will also mean more outdoor play.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It takes away from your time to play exercise and read. It takes away from your time to do more interesting things.
 
WATSON (voice-over): But her son says parents need to lead by example.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's not easy to control myself but adults can either.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Don't speak about us adults speak about yourself.
 
WATSON (voice-over): A battle over screen time. That's far from over. Ivan Watson CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: A couple of 10 year olds said they're telling their parents what they think certainly it's quite fun. All right, investors in the 
 
 embattled Chinese property giant Country Garden is breathing a collective, if maybe temporary sigh of relief.
 
That's after the developer reportedly want approval from local creditors to extend a debt payment deadline. Company shares in Hong Kong soared on the 
 
 news, although they're still down more than 60 percent year to date. Anna Stewart joins us now on this. I call it temporary just to emphasize because 
 
 even though this bond repayment now is in some degree delayed.
 
They still have to make interest payments on time and they've got other dollar bond payments that have to be made. I think they're in the 30 day 
 
 grace period on those. Anna, how are they doing as a result of this, because investors seem to like it, at least for now?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Yes, I was fascinating looking at the share price reaction because it was pretty extreme 15 percent higher today. But 
 
 year to date, Country Garden is still down around 60 percent. It's a temporary measure it is a sizeable and just given how big this bond was, 
 
 over half a billion dollars where they didn't have to repay that until 2026, or be at the interest payments.
 
But as you say they missed two payments now on U.S. denominated bonds. The grace period ends next week, they have $200 billion worth of liabilities, 
 
 and around $4.3 billion in bonds maturing between now and the end of next year according to Moody's, perhaps actually now we can take half a billion 
 
 dollars off of that, according to today's news.
 
What Country Garden really needs at this stage, though, is a recovery in the Chinese property market. And that's the one thing that I don't think 
 
 it's coming anytime soon.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, talk to me about what the government and the authorities are trying to do to at least support this market now from the bottom. We've 
 
 talked endlessly, I think about the measures that they took to try and take down some of the leverage and some of the exuberance in the sector. What 
 
 are they doing now to try and ease the fall and the decline that we've seen?
 
STEWART: It's been over two years now of default. It's almost extraordinary that Country Garden one of the largest private property developers hasn't 
 
 yet defaulted frankly, looking at some of the sales figures that we've had in China new home sales, for the biggest developers plunged 33 percent in 
 
 July compared to a year ago.
 
That just goes to show how much work needs to be done. So there have been some new policy measures unveiled by Beijing in recent days, easing 
 
 mortgage requirements, more attractive loans for first time buyers. That may help a little but you got to remember the backdrop of economic data in 
 
 China right now unemployment rising, particularly from younger generations.
 
They've got a long way to go to try and stimulate this economy. So all being said, I would say it doesn't look all that exciting for anyone that 
 
 looks at Chinese property stories and wonders why we care so much, you know, the property market in China directly and indirectly accounts for 
 
 almost a third of China's economy. And this is the second biggest economy in the world. So stories like this do send shudders down our spines.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, they certainly do. And we will continue to talk about them as a result. Anna Stewart, thank you for that, more "First Move" after 
 
 this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move", the U.S. stock markets are closed for trade today due to the Labor Day holiday, but investors certainly hard 
 
 at work in Europe, where the major indexes are trading higher as you can see all this after a rally in Asia too.
 
European stocks in fact, hitting three week highs helped along by hopes that new Chinese stimulus will help revive the world's second largest 
 
 economy. Actually market friendly U.S. data, I would say is also helping sentiment and as you heard earlier in the show, it's a day for harnessing 
 
 hope amid the hardship as Africa confronts its future in a world of rising temperatures.
 
African leaders, climate scientists and global climate ambassadors are gathered in Nairobi, Kenya, to discuss the continents path forward in a 
 
 warmer world. The President of Kenya today urging the global community to invest further in Africa's green future, stressing the continents vast 
 
 energy potential.
 
Africa currently receiving only 3 percent of total global energy investment, despite the massive opportunities on the continent to further 
 
 develop solar, wind, hydro and geothermal power. Now, the International Energy Agency believes green investment needs to double on the continent by 
 
 2030.
 
The IEA also, however, warning that the cost of financing these projects remains prohibitive, and needs to be reduced significantly going forward. 
 
 And Fatih Birol, the Director of the International Energy Agency is in Nairobi and he joins us now. Sir, welcome to the show, as always, the first 
 
 time that Africa has held a summit of this kind.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
I know you're promoting a new energy packed coming out of these talks. What will that contain and what is the significance of this meeting at this 
 
 moment?
 
FATIH BIROL, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY: Many things, yes, you are at this historic meeting, the very first meeting taking place 
 
 in Africa, and Africa's energy and climate future, organized by President Ruto of Kenya. Several heads of states from Africa, but also across the 
 
 world are here, business leaders, investors, civil society.
 
And President Ruta and I wrote a joint article, Africa's energy future, and challenges and opportunities to put the things in a context for the climate 
 
 change. Africa is responsible, only 3 percent of the global emissions, which is almost nothing. Yet Africa is the continent, which be the most 
 
 affected from the impact of the changing climate in terms of gross, sick loans and other, so this is a major, major problem for Africa.
 
And in my view, also for the rest of the world, the social issues taking place in Africa as a result of the climate change the imbalances, resulting 
 
 in many issues; including immigration is a key, key, key challenge for the rest of the world.
 
And at the same time, Africa is -- huge amount of solar potential, wind potential, a geothermal hydropower potential, but not making the most out 
 
 of it, because of lack of investments, as you're safe. Africa is getting 3 percent of global energy investment, while Africa has about 20 percent of 
 
 the global population.
 
So the issues have to bring the capital investment for this lucrative a clean energy investment in Africa and mobilize that financing. I think this 
 
 is the key issue, which is being discussed today in Nairobi, between the financial institutions, governments and others.
 
CHATTERLEY: Executive Director, I don't even need to ask you the questions because you're asking them yourselves, yourself. I think that that how here 
 
 is the important question we just had my colleague, Larry Madowo on talking about the loss fund that was agreed at the last cop. And he said, look, it 
 
 does actually come down to money, but that money is not forthcoming. How do you circle that square, which is the fact that we can recognize that 
 
 investment needs to rise?
 
The problem is the cost of investing the risk of investing in these regions, other concerns, like governments and labor concerns, sort of 
 
 outweighs the willingness, I think of people to give that money and to invest that money. How do we, how do we make people understand that this is 
 
 a good investment, and ensure actually that there is a good return for all?
 
BIROL: This is a very, very good point. So first of all, let me share with you one of the in my view, the biggest injustice in diversity when it comes 
 
 to energy. In the entire Sub Saharan Africa, we hit the 60 percent of the global solar potential, the best solar potential, yet, every second person 
 
 doesn't have access to electricity.
 
And the amount of electricity generated produced from solar in the entire Sub Saharan Africa is half of it, which is produced in Netherlands. Think 
 
 about the world map. How big is the Sub Saharan Africa, the size of Netherlands, how sunny is the Netherlands and Sub Saharan Africa. This is 
 
 really a big injustice, and it is changing people's lives.
 
So what needs to happen? Two things one, the government's here, try to minimize the risks of investment coming here because investors will not 
 
 come here, because they have very good hearts to have the people, most of them at least. The second, there is a need for the intention of financial 
 
 institutions, such as the World Bank region development bank's playing a facilitator role and provide some concessional funding, funding some de-
 
 risking mechanisms.
 
And if we leave everything to the markets, the market rates, we will not be able to see that Africa will have access to electricity, which is a major 
 
 issue, energy, economic and social terms.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's such an important point. And abundance of sunshine, which ultimately you don't have to pay for, but you need infrastructure in 
 
 order to be able to harness it. And there's still 600 million Africans that don't have access to any form of electricity. There's so much work to do. 
 
 Something else that you mentioned in that op-ed that you mentioned as well and it caught my attention that the continent is already the major 
 
 producer.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
And we've talked about this in the past of the raw materials required in clean energy, like hydrogen fuel cells and batteries. It's 40 percent of 
 
 the world reserves of cobalt, magnesium, and platinum. There is a balance to be found, as we see the world pushing forward with technologies like 
 
 electric vehicles.
 
And I know you've looked at transport infrastructure, specifically in Africa. They have the resources that the world needs, we just have to 
 
 ensure that there's an equitable balance between who receives them and who benefits from them. How do we do that to?
 
BIROL: Exactly your competitor, when we look at the numbers in the energy world, which is very, there is a very clear trend, clean energy is moving 
 
 fast and faster than many people believe it is the solar panels, which means electric cars, hydrogen, everything, and all of them need critical 
 
 minerals, as we call it, in order to be built.
 
And as it happens, Africa is the home of most of these critical minerals. And there's a lot of interests of the mining companies. Most of the former 
 
 coal companies are not transforming mining companies for critical minerals, and they're coming to Africa.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes.
 
BIROL: In my view, Africa has two, at least two major jobs to do here; the government's having good equitable contracts with those companies so that 
 
 they make the real benefit from having them hosting them here. And the second may, it may not be a better idea not to sell those cobalt or copper 
 
 as such, but refine them, manufacture them here and having a value edit and multiply the value by a factor of x and sell it directly.
 
So it may not be a better idea, not to mine, get it out of the grant out the Earth, but also refine that manufacture here and then sell it to the 
 
 global markets in which Africans can make much more money and make more of their precious resources.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I like that idea. I know you've been working with the African Development Bank too. And you have a report coming out this week, 
 
 which I certainly will be reading and we can get you back on to discuss but for now, I'm going to let you go. I know you've got a busy three days ahead 
 
 of you, sir. Thank you for your time, as always today.
 
BIROL: Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Fatih Birol, the Executive Director of the International Energy Agency there. Now typhoon Haikui is now headed towards China after injuring 
 
 more than 40 people in Taiwan, no lives have been lost. But the damage is clear to see some 7000 people have been evacuated from their homes as the 
 
 typhoon approached.
 
Power is now being restored to those who lost it, but it left a trail of flight cancellations and post the closures of both offices and schools. OK, 
 
 still to come here on "First Move" talking 3D-Printing to a whole new level. I'm talking to the founder of the team using technology to build a 
 
 school in Ukraine. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". You've probably heard on this show about 3d printed rockets or prosthetics or even toys but what about a 
 
 3D-printed building? Well, one foundation is doing just that. Team4UA is a building a primary school in Lviv, Ukraine using the latest 3D-printing 
 
 technology.
 
The project is part of its hive initiative helping to rebuild essential infrastructure. Tens of thousands of children across the war torn nation 
 
 have been left without a place to learn. And according to Ukraine's Ministry of Education and Science, more than 2000 schools have been damaged 
 
 and 330 destroyed since the war began.
 
Team4UA plans to open the schools doors for students in January of 2024. Jean-Christophe Bonis is Founder of Team4UA and he joins us now. Jean-
 
 Christophe, fantastic to have you on the show, just explain Team4UA for us and how you found yourself rebuilding schools in Ukraine?
 
JEAN-CHRISTOPHE BONIS, FOUNDER, TEAM4UA: Julia, good morning and good morning, America. Thank you for your invitation. Look, I got in like many 
 
 humanitarian at the beginning of the invasion last March. And one of the main problems in training is of course, the construction of the constraint. 
 
 So we decided to introduce in Ukraine's is 3D-printing technology with concrete reinforced concrete.
 
And that's how the project began. I had a first meeting with the mayor of Lviv, he was explaining me the big problem of having 75,000 refugees inside 
 
 Lviv and I asked him, why are you not drinking? And that's how it began.
 
CHATTERLEY: I mean, for most of us, the question why you not printing is sort of mind boggling, quite frankly, why print? Why use a 3d printer to 
 
 print these versus just traditional forms of construction prefabricated buildings, for example?
 
BONIS: Look, it's mostly a question of time. What you see around me is a school 503, four square meters, it was printing in 40 hours.
 
CHATTERLEY: Wow.
 
BONIS: What we need in train is structural for very, very long time and not so for a couple of years. And secondly, it's just the question; of course, 
 
 we need to be at the same cost than the market. It's a question of timing, out -- for children are being screwed out to print fast, for people having 
 
 home how to print bridges, infrastructure, because we need to be able to build and sell -- .
 
CHATTERLEY: I love your enthusiasm. OK, so we can print all of this in 40 hours, how long does it take to construct?
 
BONIS: Yes --
 
CHATTERLEY: Of course, if you do something like this, you need someone like you on the job, I can see. But then construction is going to take you to 
 
 Jan 2024. So it does take some time, even once you've 3d printed what you need to put everything together.
 
BONIS: Of course, when you are building, when you are building a building, any type of building, you have the foundation, you have the walls. If 
 
 you're a history building, by definition, you have histories, and you have also the roof or the structure can be printed.
 
Everything else, of course, you need a man to be able to get on site for doors for eating system, electricity, and so on. And all of that will be 
 
 done in this project in the next couple of months to open first of January.
 
CHATTERLEY: Can you compare the cost for me Jean-Christophe, because it's not actually just about the time as is important as it is to rebuild fast? 
 
 What about the relative cost?
 
BONIS: Julia, it's a question of country. If you are taking UK, United States by definition, the term by our combined with the fact that you don't 
 
 have so many men to work on project is -- a price of manpower very high. In Ukraine the cost for men for people is down. But we don't ask people 
 
 because most of the people are abroad are fighting.
 
So it's at the end of the day, of course the question of twice, for manpower and also a question of price for materials. Because when you print 
 
 most of the time depending on the type of printing you are not spending too much material.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
So you can economize between 30 and 50 percent on the concrete. So, at the end of the day, it's to me, it's between time, materials and manpower.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, who's paying for this, Jean-Christophe, because I can imagine that actually, one of the biggest challenges here is raising money 
 
 and financing.
 
BONIS: Of course, of course, the dam is flooding, unfortunately. But the solution we are funding, we were funding last year, is having a first big 
 
 donation from Ted, the foundation data. And we build the first part with Ted Foundation. And now we are keeping -- money to be able to finish the 
 
 school, we have also a project of printing a bridge in case scenario.
 
And the goal is, is to show to people we can do it to be able to raise more and to duplicate this model everywhere it's needed in Ukraine. So we raise 
 
 money, people, we need money, we need donation, of course.
 
CHATTERLEY: What difference did partnering with the United Nations make? Because I think, again, there's going to be, as there are always, in these 
 
 situations where you're trying to raise money in a war zone, for rebuilding concerns about regulation, about transparency. Has the United Nations 
 
 helped you deal with some of that and encourage more investments?
 
BONIS: Of course, our solution is really two programs, local section of the country and multi sector also. We are already working with WFP, with 
 
 UNICEF, with United Nations agency on the humanitarian side delivering food and non-food items all over the frontline.
 
But we are very interested as well in long term range to be able to participate in to use technology like that, to accelerate the process of 
 
 building for shelter of helping people as well as participating with the private sector, to hosting the country and to build the next phase.
 
CHATTERLEY: Jean-Christophe, I wonder if you've seen the story about the schools in the United Kingdom because you mentioned the UK earlier in the 
 
 conversation and concerns over the deterioration of concrete. Could they be building, rebuilding schools in this similar manner? And why don't we see 
 
 more 3d printing of buildings? Is it just early?
 
BONIS: It's a tricky question. Let me answer that on a different way. In Europe, if you see UK, if you see Ireland, the price of metric of square 
 
 meter is very high, the price of mobile is high, the price of materials is getting any rising.
 
But at the same time, all European countries as well as in states and other are -- of construction. In -- , we need to be able to make the 3d printing 
 
 accepted in size of -- construction, as safe as a normal building, as safe a normal concrete. And that's a long process of allocating. In a train, we 
 
 were able to pass around that because the Victorian Government now is very, very fast in decision.
 
And we are working with academic universities and the government to also make this type of construction on the history building accepted. It's all a 
 
 question of advocating, but I can bet you, you will have in all the country already you have in state a lot, 3D-printing for school infrastructure and 
 
 everything. It's just the beginning of construction of the new way of construction.
 
CHATTERLEY: Jean-Christophe, I would never dare to bet against you and your enthusiasm. Have you, have you been surprised by the Ukrainian people that 
 
 you've met by their resilience by sort of what they've been through and their efforts to rebuild?
 
BONIS: Julia, I was part of this crazy people getting inside the country in March last year, when everyone evacuated the country. I'm fully in love 
 
 with Ukraine. I mean, love is the resilience of these people. I mean, love is the way they are able to adapt to just you know, there is a problem. You 
 
 can't get inside the door.
 
So you go by the window, and you are there permanently, their people, this country is in need of help. And I'm so proud to be accepted in this country 
 
 with what we are doing and to give this country whatever we can with this foundation Team4UA.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I spent a lot of time there during the invasion of Crimea in 2014. And I, I felt exactly the same. Thank you to you and your team for 
 
 the work that you're doing. Jean-Christophe, we will talk again.
 
BONIS: Thanks a lot. Thanks a lot.
 
CHATTERLEY: Thank you.
 
BONIS: Bye.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, still to come, thousands remain trapped at the Burning Man festival after heavy rains struck this weekend. We have the latest from the 
 
 Black Rock Desert.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". Heavy rain and deep mud have trapped thousands of people at the Burning Man festival in the U.S. state 
 
 of Nevada. Two to three months' worth of rainfall douse the event over the weekend turning the Black Rock Desert into a muddy bog leaving thousands of 
 
 visitors well stuck in the mud.
 
It's even forcing the event to push back it's big finale, the burning of a wooden man. And Camila Bernal is there for us. Camila, I have some friends, 
 
 we'll call them ex friends now that for the last couple of years have been saying to me, you have to go this thing is so amazing. Walk us through what 
 
 I missed/ avoided?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, like before I tell you the bad stuff, I will say that everyone that I've talked to has still told me that 
 
 it is amazing that it is fun.
 
CHATTERLEY: They're lying.
 
BERNAL: They've made the best out of a very difficult situation. That's what all of them keep telling me. But it is still very messy. It's still 
 
 very muddy. It's been difficult over the last couple of days because I also talked to a lot of people who told me look, I walked this behind me here is 
 
 the playa right. And so that's where it gets muddy and cakey.
 
And people had to walk this whole area here behind me. Now what you're seeing is a lot of the cars are actually able to make their way out. So 
 
 this is the main entrance and exit out of the festival. And so, you're seeing these RVs finally making their way out, it is not officially clear, 
 
 they're not lifting the shelter in place.
 
At least we have not heard from the organizers. We're waiting for word on that. And so, we'll wait to see how many people decide to leave today. But 
 
 over the last couple of days, they've been told to shelter in place to be very careful conserving water, fuel, food, because when people come here, 
 
 they bring just the right amount of food and water for the days that they're going to be staying.
 
So when they're told Shelter in Place, stay for one, two extra days. There were some that told me it's concerning because maybe we don't have enough 
 
 for two more days or three more days, but again, very positive. Everybody just very happy and telling me that they've had a great time.
 
The burn is supposed to happen tonight, we'll see if that actually ends up happening. They're now telling people to keep on going because they want 
 
 the flow of cars to just remain open for people that want to come out. So we're waiting to hear from organizers to see what's going to happen 
 
 throughout the day.
 
But look, I thought people who had to put plastic bags on their shoes, wrap them with duct tape in order to come out. They told me it took them about 
 
 three hours. I talked to people whose RVs were stuck. They were using shovels to try to get those RVs up and running again.
 
So it just has been a difficult last couple of days. Just because even though people here expected harsh conditions, they just did not expect this 
 
 amount of rain and dealing with that very cakey mud Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, next time you want to mud bath, go to a spa, this all I can say, Camila Bernal, thank you so much for braving that for us and good 
 
 luck, escaping yourself.
 
BERNAL: Thank you.
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: And finally on "First Move" how do you fancy a liquor latte, yes, no? Well, it's taking China by storm. Luckin Coffee and beverage giant 
 
 Kweichow Moutai are coming together to make an alcoholic latte. They're using the fiery Chinese spirit Baijiu, the collaboration has set social 
 
 media ablaze and triggered a rush apparently in stores.
 
Now for those looking for a major buzz in the early hours, well, you may be a little disappointed. The company says the alcohol content of the latte is 
 
 below 0.5 percent. You've got what if you drink three or four like me? What a way to start the day.
 
And that's it for the show. If you've missed any of our interviews today, they will be on my ex and Instagram pages. You can search for 
 
 @jchatterleycnn. "Connect the World" is up next, I'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END