Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Time Running Out To Find Survivors After Turkey And Syria Earthquake; Zelenskyy Visits Brussels To Garner For More Support; U.S. Says China's Suspected Surveillance Balloon Contained Technology To Monitor American Communication; More Dramatic Rescues Days After Quake Struck; N. Korea Unveils Advanced Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles; CNN Learns New Details On Balloon's Surveillance technology; Multiple Agencies Coordinating Massively Security Operation; Composer Burt Bacharach Dies At 94. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired February 09, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
LYNDA KINKADE, HOST:  A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Lynda Kinkade in for Isa Soares. Tonight, almost 90 hours on from the devastating 
 
 earthquake in Turkey and Syria, time is running out. We'll have the latest on the intensive search for survivors.   
 
Then, Ukraine's President Zelenskyy is in Brussels, rallying support for his country. But will the bloc budge on his request for fighter jets? Plus, 
 
 the U.S. says China's suspected surveillance balloon contained technology to monitor American communication. More on those findings next.  
 
Well, they're holding on to hope, but as the hours go by, families gathered around collapsed buildings in Syria and Turkey are fearing the worst as 
 
 rescuers search through the rubble. The death toll from Monday's devastating earthquake has now soared past 20,000 people. And while we are 
 
 still seeing some incredible rescues, they are now few and far between.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
KINKADE:  Those are shouts of joy as a mother and her six-year-old daughter were pulled from a home today in Turkey. Elsewhere in Turkey, a crowd 
 
 cheering as this 21-year-old was rescued 84 hours after the quake. Well, every minute counts in trying to pull people out alive.   
 
Not only are those trapped lacking food and water, freezing temperatures also threaten their survival. One rescuer broke down and cried from relief 
 
 after his team saved a little girl. There's also an urgent effort underway to help the hundreds of thousands of people left homeless.   
 
Many are now spending a fourth night sleeping outside or in cars or makeshift tents vulnerable to the bitter cold. Well, the World Health 
 
 Organization warns that earthquake survivors could face a secondary disaster in the days and weeks ahead. As our Salma Abdelaziz reports, the 
 
 earthquake is only deepening the suffering of Syrians who have endured years of civil war.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A rescue worker sings to little Mina(ph), talks and shares stories with her. He goes on and on, 
 
 chatting about anything to distract her from the horrifying reality that she is being extracted from the ruins of her home.  
 
Mina(ph) is eventually pulled out safely, her family has also survived, rescued by members of the White Helmets, a group of first responders seen 
 
 as heroes in this rebel-held enclave of Syria. Nearly 12 years of war has made the group experts on the grim task of retrieving people from collapsed 
 
 buildings.   
 
Syrians living in opposition-controlled areas, battered by the government of President Bashar al-Assad and feeling neglected by the world, have come 
 
 to depend on only themselves, even in the aftermath of a devastating earthquake. The result is catastrophic. Here, there is a shortage of 
 
 everything, even body bags.   
 
This man has arrived with just one bag to hold all four of his dead relatives. "We hope that countries would come to our rescue", he says. "But 
 
 there was only our community that came to help us. Nobody else, we have no one to help us." And for the thousands of wounded pulled out of the rubble, 
 
 Nehaza(ph) health care system on the brink.   
 
Another volunteer group here is the Syrian-American Medical Society, doing its best to provide care on the ground. But equipment and supplies are 
 
 scarce, and countless deaths, they warn, could be prevented if they could just get the basics. And for those survivors unharmed, but made homeless, 
 
 vehicles are now shelter, sidewalks are beds, shivering in all of groves is all that's left.   
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
A crisis within a crisis, that's left those with nothing somehow with even less. Salma Abdelaziz, CNN, Istanbul. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  Well, desperately-needed aid has now reached some of those survivors. A U.N. convoy crossed into northwestern Syria earlier Thursday, 
 
 bringing the first humanitarian aid to the region since the earthquake struck days ago. We're joined now by Laila Tomeh; she is a senior Cross-
 
 border Program Coordinator with the U.N.'s International Organization for Migration. Thanks so much for joining us.   
 
LAILA TOMEH, CROSS-BORDER PROGRAM COORDINATOR, U.N. INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR MIGRATION:  Thank you.  
 
KINKADE:  So you have had operations to help Syria, and have done so even before this massive disaster. Talk to us about how you got aid to the 
 
 people there before this earthquake and now.   
 
TOMEH:  Usually, we organize the convoys, trucks loaded with humanitarian assistance, together with our sister agencies. And these convoys cross into 
 
 through Bab al-Hawa, a border crossing point into northwest Syria. And on the ground, we have implementing partners, mainly Syrian NGOs who help in 
 
 the distribution and verification.   
 
And this is a normal operation that has been going on for years. It was going normal until Monday, when the crisis hit. So it was devastating for 
 
 us to see that we couldn't even send our convoy on Monday.   
 
KINKADE:  Yes, certainly devastating for the 11 million people that the U.N. say are impacted by the earthquake in Syria. Can you describe for us, 
 
 Laila, the type of aid on those six trucks, that first convoy that arrived today?   
 
TOMEH:  We mainly sent hygiene kits and shelter kits, and kitchen sets. And these items are very much needed at the moment, because people have -- as 
 
 you have seen, have lost everything. At least, if they can find some kind of like temporary shelter, until more aid can go into Syria, into northwest 
 
 Syria, they wouldn't -- I mean, they would still suffer, but they wouldn't suffer as much without this kind of assistance that we luckily managed to 
 
 send today. 
 
And thankfully, I mean, the Turkish government opened the border crossing for us to send the convoy despite all the huge impact that you can see in 
 
 Turkey nowadays, and the efforts put into rescuing people also in several (INAUDIBLE) in Turkey.  
 
KINKADE:  So, there are not only political roadblocks, but logistical challenges. We heard from the White Helmets rescue group, who say they were 
 
 disappointed by the aid that arrived, saying it was routine, and it was expected to be delivered before this earthquake. What's your response?   
 
TOMEH:  I would say that everyone would also need to look at the devastation here on this side of the border. Our staff are suffering, our 
 
 logisticians are suffering, everyone in the communities are suffering. So it wasn't easy to increase the number of trucks immediately. And it wasn't 
 
 easy just to add to the truckload that we have.  
 
I think we can increase in the next few days, but the first two days after the earthquake, they were really hard on everyone. We have staff who lost 
 
 families, we have lost also staff from IOM, from other U.N. agencies. So it wasn't easy for us, just to be able to respond immediately on Monday. But 
 
 now, we have regrouped, and donors have started coming forward with more funding. And we think we can respond more quickly.   
 
KINKADE:  And tell us what can be expected in the coming days and weeks. There are thousands of people in Syria right now, injured, needing medical 
 
 aid as well. When will the next convoy of aid arrive?   
 
TOMEH:  I don't want to give promises, because the logistics are becoming very difficult because of the road conditions, and the shortage of labor. 
 
 But we are trying our best to send something in the next couple of days.   
 
KINKADE:  All right, OK, well, we wish you and your team all the best. Laila Tomeh, from the U.N. International Organization for Migration. Thanks 
 
 very much for your time, and all the best.   
 
TOMEH:  Thank you -- thank you so much.   
 
KINKADE:  Our Jomana Karadsheh is on the scene of a building collapse in a Turkish port city. And she saw families holding hands at the edge of the 
 
 rubble, sick with worry and grief about their missing loved ones. 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
One survivor told her, we are breathing, but we're not living. Here is Jomana with more.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera):  We are in the city of Iskenderun, that is part of Hatay Province, one of the hardest 
 
 hit provinces by this earthquake. And as we were driving into the city, you can see extensive damage all over the city center.   
 
And right here, we're told this was an 11-story building, and it was a newly built structure. There were only a few people who were inside at the 
 
 time. And we have Sefar(ph) here who is with us, he's been out here, waiting for news about your friend?   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, my relative. He is my partner in work, we've been waiting here for four days now, and it's really hard to get him today, I 
 
 think we're going to get news about him, hear news about him.   
 
KARADSHEH:  And you've been out here for the past few days? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, always -- 
 
KARADSHEH:  And I mean, have you seen any survivors coming out?   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  First day, three people got out alive. The second day, three people got out dead. The third day, two people, and now, there's only 
 
 one person left. So we are waiting to hear news about him. As you see, this is a two-year-old building and as one of the survivors said, as the 
 
 earthquake began, the building just destroyed. They didn't even wait for any seconds. As it started, it just vanished, yes.    
 
KARADSHEH:  And how are you feeling? I mean, not knowing what's happened to your friend?   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I am -- I am confused. I don't know how to feel. Senseless, yes.  
 
KARADSHEH:  And this must be really hard -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes, it is -- 
 
KARADSHEH:  Not knowing -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It is hard, it is hard. Not for me, it's hard for the city. There are many people without a home, without electricity, without 
 
 water. It's really hard for the people.   
 
KARADSHEH:  And do you have hope that you're going --    
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  First day, I was really hopeful because this building looked just fine. But this is the fourth day, I'm getting out of hope.   
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
KINKADE:  Our thanks to Jomana for that report. Well, Ukraine's president is in Brussels making an emotional plea for his country to join the 
 
 European Union. Volodymyr Zelenskyy was greeted by a standing ovation in the European parliament. He says Europe is Ukraine's home, its way of life, 
 
 its rule of law, it's also Ukraine's. Mr. Zelenskyy arguing that Europe's security depends on Ukraine's.   
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT, UKRAINE (through translator):  The unity of Europe is the fundamental way to security. A free Europe cannot be imagined 
 
 without a free Ukraine.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
KINKADE:  Mr. Zelenskyy thanked European allies for providing military assistance, while pushing for longer-range missiles and modern fighter 
 
 jets. He said so far, discussions have been quite concrete. Well, CNN's international diplomatic editor, Nic Robertson, joins us now from Brussels. 
 
 Good to see you, Nic.   
 
So, in recent weeks, Zelenskyy was promised tanks. This trip, a longer- range missiles, but he does want these fighter jets. And from what we're hearing, it sounds like he feels quite positive about the way some of these 
 
 meetings are going.   
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  He is. And that's what he said, and he said that he wouldn't discuss what was held -- what was 
 
 discussed in those closed-door meetings. Partly, he said he didn't want to give away to President Putin what they were planning.   
 
But it does feel as if it's a similar part of the sequencing that we've seen, that took -- that it took to get tanks to Ukraine. That it took to 
 
 get the surface-to-air missiles, the missile defense shield for Ukraine. All of these things took a lot of time, took a lot of back scenes -- behind 
 
 closed doors meetings. But what makes this different, I think is that here, you have President Zelenskyy in person --  previous to this trip to Europe, 
 
 he's only ever been out of the Ukraine during the war to Washington.   
 
Face-to-face meeting there with President Biden. But here, he's got a lot of face-time with the British prime minister. Last night, with French 
 
 chancellor -- the French president, the German chancellor. And here, with all 27 leaders, plus the president of the European   parliament, plus the 
 
 president of the European Commission, plus the president of the European Council.   
 
That's a lot of leaders. That's a lot of persuading power. So I think what President Zelenskyy says that it's taking away from this is some optimism 
 
 that it's managed to push forward his request for fighter jets. 
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
It seems that he's still some ways off. But he's got a commitment from the U.K. to train Ukrainian fighter pilots, and he didn't have that 48 hours 
 
 ago.   
 
KINKADE:  And it's interesting, Nic, you mentioned some of those meetings Zelenskyy had with European leaders. Zelenskyy spoke about Europe as 
 
 Ukraine's home. But those sorts of comments also set to came from the European Union president. We heard that they said that the EU is determined 
 
 to continue to support Ukraine.   
 
That it's going to hold those guilty of crimes in Ukraine accountable. And that they're going to ensure that these frozen Russian assets are used to 
 
 rebuild Ukraine. And we also heard from the European Commission president, who said we're one family. So it really does sound like there is a lot of 
 
 unity right now.   
 
ROBERTSON:  Huge. I think there's one sort of stand out and one quote from -- too many people might describe him as the expected person, the usual 
 
 person to make these comments. Viktor Orban from Hungary always opposed to Ukraine sort of going to war and the support for Ukraine. 
 
That somebody who is sort of an outlier in the European Union at the best of times. Somebody who has an affinity for President Putin. He said he 
 
 wants the war to end now, and wants -- doesn't want any more weapons to go to Ukraine and essentially wants peace now. Now, that would be capitulating 
 
 to President Putin's annexation and demands. 
 
And there's no other country within the European Union that is anywhere close to the language that Viktor Orban is using. So yes, I mean, 
 
 absolutely set Viktor Orban aside as a separate issue. There has been absolutely tremendous steps for support, lockstep if you will, for 
 
 President Zelenskyy.
 
And you know, he'll see that, he'll read the room, and he's trying to reach out to European people to shore up support for Ukraine. Because if the 
 
 people of Europe, more than 440 million of them support Ukraine and its endeavors, then that helps keep political space for the European Union's 
 
 leaders to continue to get the humanitarian support, the economic support and most importantly, the military support.  
 
So I think he comes away from this feeling that his trip was worth it, that he achieved something even if he didn't get an outright public commitment 
 
 on fighter jets.   
 
KINKADE:  Exactly. It still sounds like it's potentially on the table. Nic Robertson for us in Brussels, thanks very much. Well, Ukrainian officials 
 
 say Russia is on the offensive in the Luhansk region, but so far they aren't having much success. The head of the Luhansk Military Administration 
 
 says this is part of the new full-scale offensive Russia has been planning.   
 
He says Moscow is pushing its military west from the occupied city of Kreminna. But he says Ukrainian soldiers are successfully holding them off 
 
 and repulsing Russian attacks. Russia says it quote, "cannot accept the results of a Dutch investigation into the downing of a Malaysian airline 
 
 passenger plane back in 2014.   
 
MH-17 was shot down by a missile over eastern Ukraine, killing all 298 people on board. A Dutch investigation found evidence that Russian 
 
 President Vladimir Putin personally approved sending the air defense missiles to Ukrainian separatists that was used to shoot down the MH-17 
 
 jet.   
 
The Kremlin says it questions -- it questions the evidence and did not participate in the investigation. Well, still to come tonight, misery at 
 
 the brand known for the expression, the happiest place on earth. Thousands of jobs on the chopping block at Disney. Plus, Nigeria is about to hold 
 
 presidential and parliamentary elections even as it faces inflation, unemployment, fuel shortages and now a new currency disaster.   
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back, I'm Lynda Kinkade, good to have you with us. Well, thousands of people are at risk of losing their jobs at two of the biggest 
 
 brands in the world. Disney is cutting about 7,000 jobs worldwide. The company reorganizing its operations into three big divisions, amusement 
 
 parks, entertainment and sport.   
 
And this as Zoom is set to lay off 1,300 employees, that's around 15 percent of its staff. CNN business reporter Paul La Monica is with us from 
 
 New York. Good to see you, Paul. So Disney announcing that it's going to have sequels to three of its major movies, but at the same time, announcing 
 
 these job cuts, 7,000 people.   
 
Just put that into perspective for us, how much is that of a global company, and what is that going to mean in that cost-cutting in terms of 
 
 cost-savings?   
 
PAUL LA MONICA, CNN BUSINESS REPORTER:  Yes, it's about 3 percent of the overall workforce are not as severe as those job cuts that you mentioned at 
 
 Zoom. But this could save Disney you know, a couple of billion dollars, perhaps $5 billion over the next few years, which is significant even for a 
 
 company of Disney's size.   
 
I think what's frustrating right now, Lynda, is that this comes at a time where Disney had pretty solid results, but they are facing challenges 
 
 within the streaming business, and that's an area where they're committed to continue investing in it, but there's just so much competition right now 
 
 in streaming fatigue. A lot of consumers, you know, hearing this recession drumbeat, they're cutting back on all the subscriptions that they have.   
 
KINKADE:  Yes, a lot of people signing up for those subscriptions during COVID, and now cutting back on those. I also want to ask you about Google 
 
 and Microsoft, and this tech war over artificial intelligence. There's a lot at play here.   
 
LA MONICA:  Yes, definitely. For now, I mean, granted this is just a -- you know, a few weeks of this war if you will, that's been raging among these 
 
 two tech giants, but right now, Microsoft, at least, the perception on Wall Street is that they have the upper hand. They are aligning themselves with 
 
 ChatGPT, the very buzzy bot service that I think most average viewers have probably heard about.
 
Google owner, Alphabet, they most recently had a launch of their barred AI service, and during a demo, it made a sort of, you know, critical and 
 
 unfortunate error when asked to question about, you know, one of the new NASA telescopes looking at other galaxies, claiming that, you know, that 
 
 telescope was the one that has the most -- you know, that has had the best images, even though, this is something that European astronomers have been 
 
 looking at for the past two decades.   
 
So, it just begs the question if the artificial intelligence isn't all that intelligent, you know, why are people going to use it in Alphabet Google 
 
 stock has tumbled as a result.   
 
KINKADE:  And it's interesting, Paul, I wanted to see exactly what happened during that failed test, but you said they pulled it pretty quickly from 
 
 the net.   
 
LA MONICA:  Yes, there have been screen grabs of the tweets and the blog post, but they did, you know, take it down in response to the fact that it 
 
 was clearly wrong. 
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
But too little, too late, Wall Street obviously noticed how the stock got crushed yesterday and is down again today.   
 
KINKADE:  Yes, certainly, a lot to watch. Paul La Monica, good to have you with us from New York. Thanks so much. Well, thousands of -- still to come, 
 
 we have -- we're going to go back to Turkey where there is grief amongst many survivors who are still hoping amongst hope to find loved ones amidst 
 
 the rubble. We're going to have an update and we'll look at the efforts in the days to come.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
KINKADE:  Well, time is running out to find those who survived Monday's earthquake. A short time ago, the official death toll passed 20,000 people 
 
 in Turkey and Syria. In Turkey, many are frustrated about what they see as a slow response to the disaster. In Syria, a United Nations convoy has 
 
 finally made its way into the northern part of the country for the first time since the earthquake Monday. 
 
A road leading to the crossing from Turkey was damaged by the quake, halting operations for some time. Well, in the midst of the tragedy and 
 
 devastation, moments that maybe nothing short of miraculous. These dramatic pictures show the rescue of an eight-year-old boy in Hatay, pulled to 
 
 safety 52 hours after the quake struck.   
 
And there are similar stories, in Gaziantep, a father and his two sons were rescued earlier today. Becky Anderson talked to one of the boys' cousins 
 
 who helped dig them out.    
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A miraculous moment of survival. A father and his two sons rescued 76 hours after that massive 
 
 earthquake struck Turkey and Syria on Monday morning. Omer is one of their cousins. He helped to dig them out.   
 
OMER KOCOK, EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS' RELATIVE:  Oh, we are trying to reach them, and we had contact with them. We had -- we had a call by mobile phone.
 
ANDERSON: More than 100 people lived inside, according to the residents, and it's Omer's love for family that drove him to assist the rescue as 
 
 sifting through the rubble, painstaking work. First the rescuers and volunteers must dig and then plead for silence to hear any sign of life, 
 
 repeating the process until they get closer.
 
Neighbors, friends, relatives and bystanders, all joining together in the freezing cold to pray, hope, and wish for a miracle.  Until finally, all 
 
 these 56 hours on, contact was made with one of them in the rubble. But it still took many more hours to finally free them.
 
Omer says while his uncle and two cousins survived with no injuries, his aunt didn't make it.
 
KOCOK: This is our responsibility because they do the same if we were in the same situation.
 
ANDERSON: One family story giving hope to a grieving country.
 
Becky Anderson, CNN, Gaziantep.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, massive effort is underway to get aid to survivors. Turkey's foreign minister says the country has received offers of assistance from 95 
 
 countries and 16 international organizations.
 
Salma Abdelaziz is at a distribution center in Istanbul.  She walks us through the scenes of organized chaos.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We're at an aid distribution center in the heart of Istanbul, it's actually just a huge hangar that's been turned 
 
 into this massive space for hundreds of volunteers to try to pack these boxes with any supplies that had been donated. Just take a look inside. 
 
 It's the basics that people need, right, food, sanitation kits, diapers, clothes, blankets, canned goods.
 
And everyone you are looking here -- looking at here is packing as fast as they can.
 
I want to walk you through this scene a little bit more. It looks like chaos, but it is organized. There are coordinators shouting orders at 
 
 loudspeakers. Everyone is working as quickly as they possibly can. They know that every second counts. And every single thing you see here has been 
 
 donated by Turks for Turks, whether it comes from individuals or families or businesses.
 
Just keep on following me through here just to see how huge this operation is. Each of these boxes, gets packed here, again. And then on the other 
 
 side of this hangar, we have those trucks right there. They load them straight up into those trucks, and they take them right to that affected 
 
 earthquake zone.
 
And we've spoken to these volunteers, and they all tell us the same thing. They see the suffering. They see the heartbreak right there in the 
 
 earthquake zone and they simply couldn't sit at home and do nothing. This here is Turkey coming together, a true sense of solidarity.
 
Salma Abdelaziz, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, the U.S. is reiterating its demand for unhindered humanitarian access to Syria. A short time ago, the U.S. State Department 
 
 addressed the holdup. It's putting the blame squarely on Syria's Bashar al- Assad and his backer at the U.N.-Russia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NED PRICE, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN: -- on bent on all responsible stakeholders to make a decision. Do they want to see humanitarian access to 
 
 those in need in Syria? Or are they comfortable with humanitarians being unable to reach those most in need? It really boils down to whether 
 
 countries around the world, including what are supposed to be responsible stakeholders in the U.N. Security Council, whether they are comfortable 
 
 doing nothing in the face of death, destruction, and suffering as a result of these earthquakes.
 
It is incumbent -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, there is a global outpouring of sympathy for those hit by the earthquake. The U.S. one of the country's helping Turkish authorities 
 
 right now. USAID Search and Rescue Team Information Officer, Frank Infante, joins me now on the phone from South Eastern Turkey.
 
Frank, we appreciate your help. Just trying to understand what is happening on the ground there. We've got some videos that you've sent into us showing 
 
 your team using listening devices and rescue dogs. Dogs to try and find survivors. Just talk us through what your team is doing on the ground.
 
FRANK INFANTE, INFORMATION CENTER, USAID SEARCH AND RESCUE TEAM: Our team is here on a search and rescue mission for USAID. And once we got here, we 
 
 were assigned a sector. We really start with finding viable sites that the local first responders and citizens had told us at here people or babies 
 
 crying or other viable intelligence that we get and we start our search.
 <br>[14:35:15]
 
As you stated, we use our canines, we use acoustics [ph] and we also use cameras.  We pinpoint these areas. And if we're able to, then we start 
 
 rescuing. We have capabilities to break through concrete, reaching, breaking, and pulling victims out.
 
As of this point, we've just been in a reconnaissance mission, going from site to site that the local people here in Adiyaman, have told us to assist 
 
 them in searching these areas before we start going into a deeper rescue effort.
 
KINKADE: And at this point in time, how much hope is that you'll still find survivors? And just explain for us how many people you have carrying out 
 
 this search operation and are you working in shifts?
 
INFANT: I think we have a lot of hope. We have a lot of well-trained rescuers here that are trained months after months, year after year for 
 
 this moment, to be able to put that practice and all that expertise into place, to make some viable rescues.
 
We have currently 150 search and rescue workers working for USAID on this mission from structural specialists to medical doctors, canine specialists. 
 
 We have also specialists that know how to work with all that heavy equipment you see in the videos, and here in Adiyaman to assist and better 
 
 helping, using that machinery with the locals to get through our mission of life saving efforts here in Adiyaman.
 
And it really is crucial working with the locals to be efficient and effective, and the way you operate. Give us a sense of what comes next say 
 
 in the coming days and weeks. What sort of aid will you be providing?
 
INFANTE: Well, our mission, as part of USAID Search and Rescue is for life saving. And there could be other humanitarian efforts that USAID is 
 
 involved in. But our primary mission is stay in this rescue mode. Tie in with our local first responders and the local government here in Adiyaman 
 
 and do as much as possible towards that mission that we are here for, which is lifesaving, providing our equipment, our expertise, and our specialists 
 
 in that endeavor.
 
KINKADE: Frank Infante from USAID Search and Rescue Team. We appreciate your time and we wish you all the very best.
 
INFANTE: Thank you very much. We appreciate it.
 
KINKADE: Well, for more ways, you can help the victims of the earthquake, you can go to cnn.com/impact.
 
Still to come tonight, missiles roll through Pyongyang's main square as North Korea's sends a message to the world. Live the details on the latest 
 
 military parade, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:40:57]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. The spy balloon saga floats on. The U.S. president claiming that China's suspected surveillance balloon has not damaged 
 
 relations, apparently trying to downplay the fallout.
 
For U.S. lawmakers, even in his own party are on edge. Intelligence officials have been briefing the House and Senate on what they know about 
 
 the balloon. And they're facing one big question.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. JON TESTER (D-MT): The violation of airspace is a violation of airspace. And to know absolutely that this was of no military threat to us, 
 
 boy, I want to hear more about that in classified session two because quite frankly, I'm not sure that you can say that unequivocally. You guys have to 
 
 help me understand why this baby wasn't taken out long before.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: That was the Democratic senator from Montana, one of the states that the balloon flew over.
 
Well, meantime, we've got some pictures just coming into CNN from the FBI as they continue the investigation. CNN is learning new details on the 
 
 balloon's high tech features. U.S. security correspondent Kylie Atwood joins me now from the State Department. Good to see you, Kylie.
 
So the Pentagon says that China has conducted a spy balloon program for years. And despite the fact this latest balloon was spotted over Alaska, it 
 
 wasn't flagged as urgent before it moved on through the U.S. Just explain.
 
KYLIE ATWOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So initially, when this was detected, officials weren't immediately alarmed by it. Obviously, 
 
 you know, there are things that come into us airspace. And what they moved to do, you know, out of the gates, was to just investigate it, try and 
 
 figure out what it was, trying to figure out what was going on here.
 
But then when this balloon took a sharp turn to the south, and it appeared that it was going to be potentially headed for continental U.S. That is 
 
 when alarm bells began to increase. And that may sort of explain why there weren't steps taken right out of the gates there to shoot this down before 
 
 it came into Alaskan airspace.
 
But, of course, many members of Congress, as you just played there, are still frustrated and baffled by the fact that the administration didn't 
 
 move to shoot this down before it came in to U.S. airspace, including Alaskan airspace.
 
You know, we also heard from the -- from the senator from Alaska saying, it appears essentially that they were saying that China could, you know, have 
 
 its run over Alaskan airspace and they just weren't concerned about that.
 
So there are a lot of questions about the timeline here. And the decision making that the Biden administration went through.
 
We should note that they do say that when it came over the continental U.S., it was not a threat militarily or a threat to American civilians. And 
 
 when they did shoot it down. Now, they're collecting a large amount of intelligence about this Chinese intelligence gathering operation.
 
KINKADE: And China, of course, says it was the civilian weather detecting balloon, while the Pentagon says it has 100 percent certainty that it was 
 
 not for civilian purposes. Are they offering any evidence?
 
ATWOOD: Well, we're learning some more details as to what was on board this balloon. And senior State Department official says what was on board just 
 
 doesn't add up at all in terms of the Chinese explanation for this being a weather balloon, because there were multiple antennas, for example, on the 
 
 balloon that were likely of getting communications and being able to geo locate where those communications were coming from.
 
They were also capable of collecting signals intelligence. And what that does is it collects intelligence from electronics, things like radios or 
 
 radars. So the U.S. is really honing in now on what the capabilities on board this spy balloon actually were.
 
KINKADE: Certainly a fascinating story. Kylie Atwood for us at the Pentagon. Thanks so much.
 
Well, North Korea is showing off a collection of its advanced intercontinental ballistic missiles and a large military parade. It's 
 
 marking the 75th anniversary of the founding of the North Korean army
 <br>[14:45:10]
 
It's the most ICBMs we have seen from the country about a dozen in total. But all eyes were on the Kim family as Kim Jong-un brought along his 
 
 beloved second daughter.
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Missile after missile rolls through Pyongyang's main square Wednesday night, its biggest 
 
 intercontinental ballistic missile, the Hwasong-17, presumed capable of reaching mainland United States.
 
No speech from leader Kim Jong-un this time, but this many ICBMs are a message in themselves.
 
CHUN IN-BUM, RETIRED SOUTH KOREA LIEUTENANT GENERAL: They've now gone into a good production line of this very capable, threatening missile system.
 
HANCOCKS: And what some experts say maybe a mockup of a new solid fuel ICBM, which would make it quicker to launch and easier to move.
 
IN-BUM: If this is the case, it gives them more mobility, flexibility, lethality, and so forth.
 
HANCOCKS: Kim Jong-un told the world he wanted a bigger and better nuclear arsenal. And judging from these images provided by state run media, that 
 
 seems to be exactly what he's doing. Another first, the military parade was a family affair.
 
Kim's wife and daughter were watching the missiles roll by, believed to be called Ju-ae, maybe nine or 10 years old. This is the fifth public event 
 
 for Kim's daughter since November. The only one of his children to be shown in public, fueling speculation he may be grooming her for succession.
 
CHEONG SEONG-CHANG, DIRECTOR OF CENTER FOR EAST ASIAN COOPERATION, SEJONG INSTITUTE (through translator): In order to seize power in North Korea, 
 
 gaining control of the military and their loyalty is the most important thing. So I think that's why Kim Ju-ae is mainly accompanying Kim to 
 
 military related occasions.
 
HANCOCKS: Kim Jong-un's message has been, we will strengthen the military and we will be ready for war.
 
Paula Hancocks, CNN, Seoul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Tens of thousands of American football fans are headed to the Super Bowl this weekend, one of the biggest sporting events in the world. 
 
 And with any event like that, security is a major concern. CNN's Rosa Flores looks at the extensive Super Bowl security operation from high above 
 
 the stadium.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Whether a U.S. Customs and Border Protection helicopter.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We'll flight about 500 feet.
 
FLORES: A U.S. Air Force KC-135 Stratotanker and an F-16 fighter jet doing over Glendale, Arizona. Their task with guarding the skies over Super Bowl 
 
 LVII.  With nearly 200,000 fans expected for the big game between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles, security is a multi-agency 
 
 effort.
 
What types of threats does the FBI prepare for when it comes to the Super Bowl?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, a wide variety, anything from active shooters to explosive threats, IED threats to bomb threats, suspicious packages.
 
FLORES: From this operation center, the FBI, alongside more than 40 federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies, will use these 360 
 
 degree cameras to have eyes on every inch of the stadium.
 
Scott Brown is the federal top official in charge of security.
 
SCOTT BROWN, HOMELAND SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: I was in New York for 9/11. I've seen the devastating impacts of terrorism on 
 
 our soil. I am deeply committed as are all my partners to making sure that we don't have an incident like that here.
 
FLORES: Sky patrol is in the hands of U.S. Customs and Border Protection Air and Marine Operations. 
 
When your teams are patrolling, what would they be looking for?
 
JOSE MURIENTE, TUCSON AIR BRANCH, CBP AIR AND MARINE OPERATIONS: We're going to look for anything out of the ordinary. It could be anything from 
 
 smoke to disruptions.
 
FLORES: CBP Air and Marine Operations will be able to fly over the stadium during the big game, but no other aircraft will, because the FAA will be 
 
 imposing a flight restriction that's 30 mile wide.
 
Those flight restrictions will be enforced by NORAD, the North American Aerospace Defense Command with these air force F-16 fighter jets.
 
ANDREW SCOTT, U.S. AIR FORCE, 601ST AIR OPERATIONS CENTER: Since 9/11, we've been able to safely escort out any aircraft that's violated 
 
 restricted airspace.
 
FLORES: NORAD is taking no chances. This KC-135 Stratotanker is part of the fleet on hand.
 
This aircraft can carry up to 200,000 pounds of fuel. There are 10 tanks on board, including some on the wings.
 
And it can refuel an F-16 midair in minutes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So it prevents us from having to return for fuel on the ground. So it's absolutely critical.
 
FLORES: The fighter jets refuel from a receptacle that's right behind the pilot.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And my job as the pilot is just to remain within the basket and a safe controlled stable position.
 
FLORES: If the FAA's flight restrictions are broken, NORAD or CBP Air and Marine Operations will engage.
 
MURIENTE: Our role in the event of a criminal event is to bring special response teams to the scene.
 
FLORES: The message from law enforcement to when you when thinking about committing a crime during the Super Bowl is simple.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Don't do it. You're going to wind up in cuffs.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[14:50:59]
 
KINKADE: Our thanks to Rosa Flores there. And we're going to take a short break. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: What a legend Burt Bacharach making a cameo appearance in an Austin Powers movie there. Well, his signature orchestral melodies and 
 
 timeless hits made him one of the most important songwriters of the 20th century. Burt Bacharach died Wednesday at the age of 94.
 
CNN's Stephanie Elam looks back at his life and career.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Legendary tune Smith, Burt Bacharach, was one of the 20th century's most accomplished composers. His music 
 
 spanned generations providing signature hits for acts like the Carpenters, Dusty Springfield, Luther Vandross, Tom Jones, and Dionne Warwick.
 
(MUSIC)
 
Bacharach collaborated with other songwriters including Carole Bayer Sager, the third of his four wives. His second wife was actress, Angie Dickinson. 
 
 Their high-profile marriage lasted 15 years.
 
Bacharach was born on May 12th, 1928 in Kansas City, Missouri. As a young man, he won a scholarship to the Music Academy of the West and had a short 
 
 stint in the army before becoming the music director for actress, Marlene Dietrich, a prophetic sign for his career where music and movies would 
 
 intertwine.
 
(MUSIC)
 
Bacharach won an Oscar for "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head," the theme song from Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and another for the movie 
 
 "Score." He took home his third Oscar for the theme song from the film "Arthur."
 
(MUSIC)
 
He also won six Grammys.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Burt Bacharach and Mr. Elvis Costello.
 
ELAM: Bacharach's career experienced a resurgence in the late '90s. His music is heard in the Austin Powers movies and "My Best Friend's Wedding." 
 
 And he teamed up with artists like R&amp;B crooner, Ron Isley.
 
(MUSIC)
 
He also paired with British rocker, Elvis Costello, on a song for the film "Grace Of My Heart."
 <br>[14:55:03]
 
(MUSIC)
 
In 2012, President Obama paid tribute to the songwriting duo Bacharach and Hal David, with the nation's highest award for popular music, that Gershwin 
 
 Prize.
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: What began as an occasional collaboration in the late '50s quickly became a partnership that 
 
 produced dozens of top 40 hits. Burt and Hal had never been limited to one genre or even one generation.
 
ELAM: Some criticized Bacharach's music as easy listening. He didn't seem to mind.
 
BURT BACHARACH, AMERICAN COMPOSER: There was a cartoon once that I saw was sent to me. Three guys waiting for elevators when elevator was listed, 
 
 Mancini, the other was Manilow, and the other was Bacharach. So I thought, you know, that's very flattering.
 
ELAM: Bacharach said his songs came from what moved him and it was his music that over decades moved so many.
 
(MUSIC)
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, thanks so much for watching tonight. I'm Linda Kinkade. Please stay with CNN. Richard Quest with "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END