Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: New Delhi Meeting Ends Without Joint Declaration; HYBE Chair Gives Behind the Scenes Look at K-Pop Industry; Thank You Paul LA Monica for 22 Years of Excellence; Sentencing in Murdaugh Murder Trial Expected Soon; Alex Murdaugh Sentencing Hearing for Murders of Wife and Son; Judge Addresses Alex Murdaugh at his Sentencing Hearing. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired March 03, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST, FIRST MOVE: A warm welcome to "First Move". Great to be with you and TGIF we're winding down after a very busy week 
 
 here on "First Move". Hot inflation data giving investors a confidence knock. Musk's Master Plan meanwhile, disappointing some of the Tesla flock.
 
Under 18s have a 1-hour time limit on TikTok and Chinese data shows the economy there starting to rock and Chinese investors ending the week in 
 
 style with the HANG SENG up more than half a percent, up almost 3 percent across the week. Chinese services data posting the fastest pace of growth 
 
 in six months and this follows solid manufacturing numbers earlier in the week too.
 
The SHANGHAI COMPOSITE has gained over 7.5 percent this year. The South Korean KOSPI doing even better as you can see they're up 8.5 percent as 
 
 investors hope to profit from a robust Chinese rebound. And our Richard Quest is in Seoul and we'll bring you his interview with the South Korean 
 
 Prime Minister in just a moment's time.
 
Topics discussed include hopes for post lockdown economy's recovery and the need for better leadership on the global stage South Asia of course the 
 
 setting for the meeting of G20. Finance Ministers in New Delhi Foreign Ministers excuse me sharp divisions apparent over Ukraine with China 
 
 insisting that the G20, ignore security issues and focus elsewhere.
 
And meanwhile, grim news from the town of Bakhmut in Eastern Ukraine heavy fighting continues control of the city now hanging in the balance and that 
 
 is where we begin today's show. The Head of Russia's Wagner group says his troops have Bakhmut "surrounded" and he's calling on the Ukrainian 
 
 President to withdraw his troops.
 
But Ukraine still insisting it's holding its ground. Russia in the meantime has also damaged a key bridge used to supply the city. A local official 
 
 telling CNN they hope to repair the bridge soon. Alex Marquardt joins us live now from Eastern Ukraine. Alex, what do we know in more detail about 
 
 the situation there?
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Julia, things are looking rather grim for Ukrainian forces in and around the City 
 
 of Bakhmut. We know that there were some 4 to 5000 civilians who were still in the city; we were actually going with a team that meant to evacuate some 
 
 of them earlier today.
 
And then that mission was called off because of what happened at that bridge. There is only one main supply route that Ukrainian forces are able 
 
 to use in and out of Bakhmut. We were there just yesterday, we saw Ukrainian forces bombing up and down that road and armored vehicles going 
 
 to and from the front.
 
That road now broken off because of this bombing of the bridge it has been severed, we understand from a soldier who is inside Bakhmut that the bridge 
 
 was hit by a large missile, that means it is going to be very difficult for Ukrainians to --, for them to evacuate civilians for them to pull back if 
 
 they if they need to.
 
That order to withdraw certainly has not been given, at least for now but it does mean things are going to be much harder for Ukrainian forces if 
 
 they want to get to the front or come back from it. They're going to have to use dirt roads or cross open fields that are very difficult.
 
It is very perilous. It certainly exposes them significantly. We did hear from the Head of the Wagner forces, Yevgeny Prigozhin, who says that 
 
 Ukrainian forces are surrounded on three sides that does line up with what we understand. He said he called on President Zelenskyy to withdraw his 
 
 forces to save his men's lives.
 
That in a day or twos time that those men will be surrounded Ukrainian forces certainly standing their ground they're putting up a very strong 
 
 fight. No sense right now that they are withdrawing. I spoke with troops in a nearby town just yesterday saying they need to keep fighting for Bakhmut.
 
They need to hold Bakhmut because otherwise that next town where we were in Chasiv Yar that would be the next target for Russians. They would have a 
 
 deeper foothold in Eastern Ukraine, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Alex Marquardt there, thank you so much for that report. While Ukraine also dominated a contentious G20 Foreign Ministers meeting in New 
 
 Delhi at - astonishing event and audience laughed at Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov after he said Ukraine started the war. Watch this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SERGEY LAVROV, RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: You know, the war, which we are trying to stop and which was launched against us using Ukraine. Ukrainian 
 
 people, of course, it influenced the policy of Russia.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Ultimately the summit produced no joint communique after Beijing and Moscow objected to language on the war in Ukraine. Marc Stewart 
 
 joins us now on this. Marc, I think back over the last weeks, two weeks of diplomacy really and then bake hope perhaps that China could play some role 
 
 in in resolving finding peace in this conflict.
 
Since then, we've had open accusations of fears that China will supply Russia with weapons. We've had the United States providing further arms to 
 
 Taiwan, it sorts of feels like the tension level between the United States and China never been higher. How do you read the situation today?
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Indeed, Julia, let's just focus specifically on China for a moment. If we look at the past week, we have 
 
 seen China certainly try to portray itself as this objective neutral peace broker and all of this, yet at the same time, it's been very selective as 
 
 to how and when it's showing it support, especially toward this conflict in Ukraine.
 
Today, we heard a statement to the effect of China doesn't want to do anything to add fuel to fire, perhaps viewed as implied criticism to the 
 
 west. As you mentioned, China is not supporting this Foreign Ministers statement by the G20. In fact, today, it made a point of saying that the 
 
 G20 should focus more on security issues or other diplomatic issues.
 
I should say no, not so much security issues go back to its original focus. Let's take a listen to some remarks we heard earlier today from the 
 
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAO NING, CHINA'S FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON: We have also noticed that G20 members have different views on the Ukraine crisis. We hope that the 
 
 G20 members will respect each other's concerns and send the signal of solidarity and cooperation instead of division and mutual accusation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEWART: So kind of a broad statement we're hearing from Beijing, although earlier today we did hear from China's Foreign Minister, he said that China 
 
 will support programs that could perhaps lead to peace, but they must be conducive in the Chinese government's eyes, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: I mean, it's an important point, isn't it? I think everyone in the room, for the most part would like to focus more on big global issues 
 
 like food security, for example. But unfortunately, the war in Ukraine is exacerbating those issues, and we can't get away from it.
 
Marc, thank you for that! Marc Stewart there from Tokyo! OK, we're jetting off to another G20 nation now and that's South Korea, Asia's fourth largest 
 
 economy that's home to our familiar global brands like Samsung, LG and Hyundai. It also plays a delicate balancing role in the complex geopolitics 
 
 between east and west as we were just discussing.
 
Just imagine neighboring North Korea continues its nuclear threat amid rising tensions between the United States and China over the war in 
 
 Ukraine. And now of course, arms sales to Taiwan, all this complicating South Korea's relations with Beijing. While our Richard Quest sat down with 
 
 a South Korean Prime Minister for an interview. And he said China has changed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HAN DUCK-SOO, SOUTH KOREAN PRIME MINISTER: China is not the country. It used to be when they started on the market opening and liberalization in 
 
 economic policies. China is a huge and important global player.
 
But maybe sometimes China is not compliant with that kind of, you know, expectations a lot of countries would like to have about China. For 
 
 example, we hope that China will be more aggressive and more active in reducing the tensions on the Korean peninsula.
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR (on camera): Let's go to North Korea in our discussion, the President Trump years were perhaps with 
 
 hindsight, a little bizarre. So now how would you describe the relationship with North Korea?
 
DUCK-SOO: The attempts by President Trump were rather new approach to North Korea, top down I should say. And of course, we hope that it might work but 
 
 it didn't. So well, so last year, with a new administration coming into power, we put a lot of emphasis on building our deterrence capabilities in 
 
 a right way. But we are not closing the dialogue channels for North Korea.
 
QUEST (on camera): How would you describe the current level of dialogue such as it may not exist?
 
DUCK-SOO: Korea and our closest ally, United States, their policies have never changed at all.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
DUCK-SOO: Its North Korea who should change and we already made public and made an announcement on a new policy initiative that means as long as North 
 
 Korea is abstaining from their very, you know, strong and ambitious nuclear ambitions, that's OK for United States and for Korea to open our dialogue. 
 
 But up to now, it's quite a pity that North Korea has not responded in a quite desirable way.
 
QUEST (on camera): Your being, as one would expect very diplomatic in this regard. Things and I mean, they're not staying the same, they're getting 
 
 worse. So in that regard, can you see a scenario where you would either want your own nuclear capability, or you would want the United States to re 
 
 station nuclear capability here?
 
DUCK-SOO: The survey in Korea definitely showed that we should rearm ourselves. I mean, we should in nuclear capability terms, we should go 
 
 farther, I don't think is the right way for us to do, we should work together with the international community, including our closest ally, 
 
 United States, and possibly with Japan and other countries in the world.
 
So that we will put a lot of continuous pressure on North Korea to denuclearize and we'd like to let North Korea know that developing and 
 
 advancing nuclear capabilities will not guarantee the peace and prosperity in their country, and also on the Korean peninsula and globally.
 
QUEST (on camera): You know, I was thinking just as we were discussing North Korea and nuclear weapons, the events in Ukraine where Putin is not 
 
 even tactfully talking about nuclear, tactical nuclear weapons. So now I asked, will you consider sending lethal weapons or lethal materials to 
 
 Ukraine?
 
DUCK-SOO: None now I sent, but we are quite supportive of Ukraine. And this year, we decided that we will increase our support in the amount of 130 
 
 million U.S. dollars and we are trying to support them in terms of electricity generation capabilities and so on. But whether we will go into 
 
 some lethal weapon support, we are not yet decided on that issue.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Fascinating conversation. Now the sentencing hearing will begin in just a few minutes' time for the disgraced South Carolina lawyer Alex 
 
 Murdaugh convicted of killing his wife and son. Here he is listening to that verdict.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Guilty verdict, signed by - for lady, 3 to 23.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Murdaugh now faces life in prison. We will bring the sentencing to you live when it happens. OK, in the meantime, coming up here on "First 
 
 Move" after the break. Which is next dynamite interview from Seoul the Chairman of HYBE the company behind K-pop sensation BTS coming up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: In case you didn't know where you have been? That's the snippet trim K-pop bands BTS hit song dynamite. South Korea of course is the 
 
 birthplace of K-pop and Richard Quest had an exclusive interview with the Head of HYBE the entertainment giant behind the record breaking band. Take 
 
 a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
QUEST (on camera): This place is called forum you know the Roman place.
 
BANG SI-HYUK, CHAIR OF HYBE ENTERTAINMENT: Yes.
 
QUEST (on camera): Debate or discuss so?
 
SI-HYUK: When I made this building interior area, I want my people to discuss or debate or hangout very naturally in their work lives. And 
 
 sometimes we have a town hall meeting I mean the all hands on meeting once in a month so.
 
QUEST (on camera): Si-Hyuk, if this is meant to be the Roman?
 
SI-HYUK: Yes.
 
QUEST (on camera): That means there is debate.
 
SI-HYUK: Right.
 
QUEST (on camera): There is questioning.
 
SI-HYUK: Yes, right sometimes.
 
QUEST (on camera): Sometimes.
 
SI-HYUK: Yes, usually hanging out and yes.
 
QUEST (on camera): Are you see so --?
 
SI-HYUK: No way no way. I'm a fan of big fan of democracy. I'm not a --.
 
QUEST (on camera): How good are you at the work life balance?
 
SI-HYUK: Oh, I don't like that concept work-life balance. Actually I always say work-life harmony. I don't like the idea of "work-life balance," for it 
 
 sounds like labor is the enemy of our life. So I try not to use such an expression.
 
QUEST (on camera): You've been unbelievably successful but there's also criticism, the demands on the artists. It's too stressful. They can't cope. 
 
 You have created a factory. You're nodding; you've heard it all before. But isn't it true? You're putting these kids under tremendous pressure?
 
SI-HYUK: Well, let me put it this way. It's not a total urban legend. Of course, there was some element of it in the past. But we should ask: Are 
 
 these questions justifiable? I don't see any clear difference when we applied the same things to the Western pop. Is any one of the Western 
 
 artists not living a stressful life?
 
In most cases, they face a more serious catastrophe than Koreans in the form of drug or alcohol abuse. So, please think about how stress-free the 
 
 Western artists are. With regards to the issue of autonomy that was clearly an issue in the past. But the times have changed and the K-pop companies of 
 
 today try their best not to violate the artists' freedom.
 
QUEST (on camera): How do you keep K-pop growing internationally and so that it doesn't just all fall apart?
 
SI-HYUK: K-pop is not as hot in the market as you might perceive. Globally, it's not occupying much of the market. On the other hand, Latin music and 
 
 Afrobeats are very rapidly growing. So, being where we are, it is more urgent to increase the exposure.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
SI-HYUK: For that purpose, I'm talking over labels and management companies in America to be able to build the infrastructure.
 
QUEST (on camera): Do you worry that it's just going to fizzle out? You know I think of the 1970s and 80s, there was these producers Stock Aitken 
 
 Waterman, you know with all the bands Rick Astley and all of those things that it all just fizzled out and something else came along.
 
SI-HYUK: In fact, looking at our export indicators and streaming growth, the slowdown in growth is very clear. It would be fortunate if this is a 
 
 temporary phenomenon caused by BTS's military enlistment, but I doubt that. As you mentioned, K-pop as a genre might be in a dangerous state now 
 
 showing the slowdown.
 
And it's one of the reasons that I've been more aggressive about this takeover. We absolutely need to raise the level of awareness in the global 
 
 market.
 
QUEST (on camera): Obviously from day one you knew that BTS and military service was going to come along? Do you look upon the military service as 
 
 an advantage? It really grounds them in being Korean it makes them a national institution? Or do you regard it as a as a relative nuisance? That 
 
 has to be done and let's get back when they finished.
 
SI-HYUK: From the career's point of view, no artist would be happy to have such a long pause against their will. I think it's a separate issue from 
 
 the mindset that we faithfully and gladly serve the country. Yet BTS and I were talking about this since early 2018.
 
So it's been long discussed, and we're not done yet. We've been prepared to turn this into a turning point in their career. It's obviously true that 
 
 they needed this time of rest after such an intense period of hard work. They can't remain the BTS of today, but need to grow and change as artists.
 
QUEST (on camera): How do you see your role as to the artists? BTS obviously is your biggest but are you a father figure a big brother and 
 
 mentor? Are you a producer? Are you a best friend? Are you all the above
 
SI-HYUK: To BTS, I think it's all of the above. I don't think they'll be surprised to hear my answer. To the other artist, I support the 
 
 independence of the labels very strongly, so we haven't had much contact. They have their own brothers, mentors and producers.
 
They're the ones I talk to mostly. Some of them might consider me as their producer. Some might see me as their Chairman, not knowing exactly what I 
 
 do. Others don't know me at all. Seriously, I met some of them who have no idea about me.
 
QUEST (on camera): Really?
 
SI-HYUK: Yes.
 
QUEST (on camera): I think they all secretly say what does the Chairman think?
 
SI-HYUK: No way. They don't some of them doesn't have any interest and I'm happy about that.
 
QUEST (on camera): So when you decide K-pop and you decide old age pension pop just think of me. I mean, I can dance, I can sing, I'm available for 
 
 the right fee.
 
SI-HYUK: In fact, there are some artists in Korea who have more loyal fans of old age than BTS do. So I think it's more than possible.
 
QUEST (on camera): I'll have my people. Talk to your people. Thank you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: K-pop in its groove. And Wall Street to look set to improve futures pointing to a second day of U.S. stock gains and we're hoping for a 
 
 rocket fueled rally this session. A firework filled send off to a person close to our hearts who's making his final day here on CNN Paul LA Monica.
 
A famous face in our "First Move" family is moving on after more than 20 years of expert truly expert reporting on business and markets or anything 
 
 else for we throw at you but one thing just one of the things that we adore about you, you're never short of opinion nor passion. Stay right there 
 
 while we play this.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAUL R. LA MONICA, CNN REPORTER: I am - for Italy you know my family mostly from Calabria and Sicily. We've got this that I bought a couple years 
 
 remind you that yes, Italy has won some major titles. Let's just say I live in Brooklyn and have a one to one vowel consonant ratio and my last name, 
 
 so I don't really like chain pizza to begin with so.
 
CHATTERLEY: So you're not a lover of this. But have you ever eaten --?
 
MONICA: --I've had eaten Domino's, Papa John's, Pizza Hut, not my thing when I can get good old fashioned good pizza in Brooklyn. As someone who 
 
 has been doing this for more than 25 years, every time you hear this time is different.
 
That means that no, it's exactly like the past, Julia Water is still wet, the sky is still blue. Put the freaking phone down a lot, just stop. I 
 
 mean, this is very similar to what we had with the past President. Obviously, you can't be tweeting reckless things. It's going to get you in 
 
 trouble.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: It's one of my best memories on that phone down. Paul, I said in a video that I recorded a few I'm lost for words. We adore you. You're 
 
 amazing on TV. How does today feel sort of bittersweet?
 
MONICA: It is bittersweet but I'm looking forward to what's next. After seeing Richard's interview there, I might have to look for the old age, 
 
 Spotify, pension channel.
 
CHATTERLEY: --get to say that?
 
MONICA: But no, no, I'm looking forward to do what's next. Obviously, you're going to continue to fall business news and the markets in some 
 
 capacity. But I need some time to take a bit of a break focus on my family and all of that.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and you more than deserve that I have to say and sort of shared a little bit in our conversations there. Genuinely, whenever you and 
 
 I get together. The pun King and Queen in my mind, the show generally goes rogue.
 
And I always get told that I have to sort of wrap it up generally at the end of the show. And we've pulled together a few of those moments too, 
 
 because I think they're worth seeing as well, Paul, because we're never short of conversation.
 
MONICA: We are producers, worst nightmare.
 
CHATTERLEY: We truly are. Watch this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Paul, I have to say I didn't think it was possible for your backdrop to get more exciting, but you have excelled yourself today. I was 
 
 sort of half listening to you and half just admiring what was going on behind you? Are those awards yours?
 
MONICA: Those are fantasy football trophies. One is my wife but the rest are mine. Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: Wow, go your wife. I love that. Paul La Monica, thank you so much. I'm being told to shut up. We should reconvene on that my friend. Let 
 
 it go. We run out of time I'm being told off. Yes, I'd be told to shut up as always. Paul LA Monica, thank you for that.
 
MONICA: Yes, you're right. That's true.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, in which case I'll just shut up.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: The last one I told myself to shut up. Wishes you happy times Paul!
 
MONICA: Thank you very much, Julia. I appreciate it's always been a pleasure being on the show. I will continue to watch it from home I wish 
 
 you and everyone else at CNN I all the success that you deserve this fantastic program.
 
And it's nice to see CNN I have this commitment to business news with you and Richard and Zain and so many of the other phenomenal hosts that have 
 
 had the pleasure to be with and talk to over the past two decades.
 
CHATTERLEY: Paul made me cry. I have to say you're a good omen as well. You know, I looked at the DOW performance for your career at CNN and you're 
 
 clearly a positive omen up 200 percent I believe. Plus, look at that, I mean, that's an easy job. So you got to say.
 
MONICA: It's all about staying in the market not panicking. That's really what any smart investors should be doing. Don't follow the fads just stick 
 
 to your knitting. And if you're in for the long haul, you should hopefully be fine regardless of what craziness may befall all of us in the global 
 
 markets and economy.
 
CHATTERLEY: Great advice to finish on then focus what I'm being told.
 
MONICA: Wrap.
 
CHATTERLEY: --you big hugs and you'll be back. Always--
 
MONICA: Thank you so much.
 
CHATTERLEY: We adore you, thank you, Paul La Monica there. Stay with "First Move", we're back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". As I mentioned earlier, we're expecting to hear the sentencing of Alex Murdaugh at any moment now. 
 
 Murdaugh was found guilty of murdering his wife and son on the evening of June the seventh 2021 and the horrific South Carolina case has captivated 
 
 people across the United States. Dianne Gallagher has the details of this extraordinary case in this report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Guilty verdict, verdict guilty, verdict guilty and verdict guilty.
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN REPORTER (voice over): Alex Murdaugh, a Scion from a prominent local family of lawyers and solicitors found guilty of murdering 
 
 his wife, Maggie and son Paul after just three hours of jury deliberation.
 
CREIGHTON WATERS, LEAD PROSECUTOR: It doesn't matter who your family is. It doesn't matter how much money you have or people think you have. It doesn't 
 
 matter what you think how prominent you are. If you do wrong, if you break the law, if you murder, then justice will be done in South Carolina.
 
GALLAGHER (voice over): The jury was seen with their heads down never looking Murdaugh's direction as the verdict was read. The prominent former 
 
 attorney's only living son Buster was present in the courtroom. While the guilty verdict was read, appearing, it's time to wipe tears from his eyes. 
 
 After the guilty verdict came down, the judge denied a motion from the defense asking for a mistrial and to set aside the verdict.
 
JUDGE CLIFTON NEWMAN, SOUTH CAROLINA CIRCUIT COURT: The evidence of guilt is overwhelming. And I have denied the motion.
 
GALLAGHER (voice over): The prosecution has indicated they will be seeking a life sentence without the possibility of parole, bearing him the death 
 
 penalty. The case wrapped up earlier Thursday with the defense's closing arguments, attempting one last time to poke holes in the state's case.
 
JIM GRIFFIN, ALEX MURDAUGH'S DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Their theory is that he slaughters his wife and son to distract from an impending financial 
 
 investigation. But he puts himself in the middle of a murder investigation. And he puts himself in the spotlight of a media firestorm.
 
GALLAGHER (voice over): And further slamming the investigation.
 
GRIFFIN: We believe that we've shown conclusively that sled failed miserably in investigating this case.
 
GALLAGHER (voice over): The jury was un-swayed by this defense favoring the prosecution's argument that Murdaugh was the only one with the motive means 
 
 an opportunity to kill his wife and son.
 
JOHN MEADORS, PROSECUTOR: He did it, nobody else could have done it, and nobody else did do it.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
GALLAGHER (voice over): Over the roughly six-week trial, the prosecution presented its case featuring testimony from 61 witnesses with phone 
 
 forensics and extensive evidence of Murdaugh's financial misdeeds.
 
ALAN WILSON, SOUTH CAROLINA ATTORNEY GENERAL: Our criminal justice system worked tonight. It gave a voice to Maggie and Paul Murdaugh.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: And we'll take you to that sentencing the moment it begins. Now it could be described as chemical or biological warfare aimed at 
 
 terrorizing a wide section of the population. Hundreds of school girls have been poisoned across Iran over the past few months.
 
A member of Iran's Parliament told the country's semi-official news agency that nearly 900 students have been poisoned. Almost all of them at girl's 
 
 schools are now the United States is calling for accountability. And CNN has tracked down some of those who fell sick. Nima Elbagir has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Desperation and chaos gripping Iranian cities for months. Terrified parents 
 
 watch helplessly as their children fall prey to mysterious ailments. CNN communicated with witnesses and survivors of some of these incidents at 
 
 mostly girls' schools across the country.
 
It was a terrible situation. Girls had been falling on the floor and were crying. Some were unable to walk really didn't want to leave one another. 
 
 They wouldn't let us go home; they forced us to stay inside. There was a bitter smell. There was a smell outside too. Then I felt sick.
 
Many of the students who spoke to CNN reported smelling noxious odors. This as Iranian authorities' explanation has been shifting, but state media is 
 
 now referring to the incidence as poisonings. Some parents' worry these are targeted attacks on girls meant to prevent them from attending school. Many 
 
 of the attacks have been in the religious heartland of Iran.
 
Yet the Minister of Education has said that most of the cases were caused by rumor and there is no problem. The reported poisonings began a month and 
 
 a half after process erupted across Iran, led by women demonstrating against the country's repressive conduct and clothing laws.
 
CNN cross reference local media reporting with testimony from victims and eyewitnesses to tally the number of incidents. State media have reported 
 
 incidents at nearly 60 schools since late November. CNN has spoken with eyewitnesses in dozens of these cases in one school in the regime Heartland 
 
 have come at least three incidents were reported to CNN, the latest this week.
 
And incidents continue to be reported into this week in the towns of - and Ardabil. Where medical sources tell us a student was admitted to the ICU 
 
 suffering seizures after the latest incident. One of dozens who have been hospitalized another family joining the hundreds desperate for answers. 
 
 Nima Elbagir CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: And still to come here on "First Move" calls for fundamental change in farming in North Korea as fears of a food crisis grow all the 
 
 details next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". In any moment now a judge will sentence Alex Murdaugh now a convicted murderer after a jury found him 
 
 guilty of killing his wife Maggie and son Paul. He's facing the possibility of life without parole. We will bring you that sentencing live when it 
 
 happens.
 
In the meantime, to Greece now, 57 people are now confirmed dead after the head of the train coalition earlier this week. Crews keep sifting through 
 
 the wreckage near the city of Larissa and then the anger is building. The Greek Federation of rail workers announced a 24-hour strike saying 
 
 government's disrespect for their industry caused the crash.
 
The Federation says requests for more staff better training and modern security systems have been "Thrown to the bin", but the government blames 
 
 the disaster on human error and arrested a station manager. An audio recording of him speaking to one of the train drivers was released on 
 
 Thursday this week. CNN's Nada Bashir has all the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER (voice over): Wrangled metal, Todd Debris, the remnants of a disaster that could have been avoided and now this.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Proceed through red traffic light, light exit until traffic light entry of Neon Poron.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Vasilis, am I good to go?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go, go.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Done. Have a good night.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have a good trip.
 
BASHIR (voice over): An audio recording of the station master--
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, I'm going to interrupt this report and hand you over to my colleagues, Jim and Erica for the sentencing of Alex Murdaugh.
 
CREIGHTON WATERS, PROSECUTOR: --past six weeks, but it is overwhelming. And it shows this man to be a cunning manipulator. A man who placed himself 
 
 above all others, including his family, a man who violated the trust of so many, including his friends, his family, his partners, his profession, but 
 
 most of all, Maggie and Paul, this is a very complicated situation.
 
And I want to offer my condolences to the family that has suffered here. We have tried very hard to be respectful and sensitive regardless of what 
 
 position any person took because this family has suffered and they've had to suffer in the public eye. And I want to offer my condolences to this 
 
 family. I want to offer it for Maggie and Paul and Mr. Randolph too who I had the pleasure working with on one occasion.
 
But the reality remains is that despite all this attention, this case is about Maggie Murdaugh and Paul Murdaugh. And I'm so thankful that the 
 
 jurors gave them a voice. You heard about Paul, obviously there was a - case but you also heard him described as a fun lumbering young man, a 
 
 person who loves life, a person who would do anything for his friends, for anyone.
 
And he's cut down as he was just starting to live his life. You heard about Maggie, you heard how sweet she was. You heard that she was a girl's girl 
 
 who adapted to the outdoorsman life of her son's, how much she loved her sister and her brother-in-law and their children. And she was cut down in 
 
 the prime of her life.
 
Both of them, like everyone else was unaware of who he really was no one who thought they knew this man. No one who thought they were close to this 
 
 man knew who he really was. And your honor that's chilling and I've looked in his eyes. And he likes to stare me down as he would walk by me during 
 
 this trial.
 
And I could see the real Alex Murdaugh when he looked at me. The depravity, the callousness, the selfishness of these crimes are stunning the lack of 
 
 remorse and the effortless way in which he lies including here sitting right over there in this witness stand.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
WATERS: Your honor, a man like that, a man like this man should never be allowed to be among free, law-abiding citizens again. Now I would submit to 
 
 you that the only Justin is here to give justice for Maggie and Paul is the maximum, now it'd be two consecutive life sentences. Thank you, your honor.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You indicate that no one, no victim would like to speak at this time.
 
CHATTERLEY: So, you've just been listening there to prosecutor Creighton Waters. We are going to take a quick break here. Stay with us as we 
 
 continue with our coverage at the sentencing of Alex Murdaugh.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JUDGE CLIFTON NEWMAN, SOUTH CAROLINA CIRCUIT COURT: For the state for the defense team, but for all of the citizens in this community, all citizens 
 
 in the state and as we've seen, based on the media coverage there throughout the nation. You have a wife who's been killed, murdered a son 
 
 savage, just savagely murdered, a lawyer, a person from a respected family who has control justice in this community for over a century.
 
A person whose grandfather's portrait hang at the back of the courthouse that I had to have ordered removed in order to ensure that a fair trial was 
 
 had by both the state and the defense. And I've sat through the trial, not only have accepted the trial, but also as the presiding judge of the state 
 
 Grand Jury set through and participated in the issuance of search warrants or various sorts of bond hearings and have had to consider many things.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
NEWMAN: And we have this case and I'm also assigned to preside over 99 others, at least 99 other cases. Though testimony has come up regarding 
 
 many of those other cases, I will not make any comment with regard to any other pending matter, as I have been assigned those cases as well.
 
It's also particularly troubling, Mr. Murdaugh, because as a member of the legal community and a well-known member of the legal community, you 
 
 practice law before me. And we've seen each other at various occasions throughout the years. And that was especially heart breaking for me to see 
 
 you gone, go into media from being a grieving father, who lost a wife and a son to being the person indicted and convicted of killing them.
 
And you've engaged in such duplicitous conduct here in the courtroom, here on the witness stand. And as established by the testimony, throughout the 
 
 time leading from the time of the indictment, and prior to the indictment throughout the trial to this moment in time, certainly, you have no 
 
 obligation to say anything other than saying not guilty.
 
And obviously, as appeals are probably expected, or absolutely expected, I would not expect a confession of any kind. In fact, as I've presided over 
 
 murder cases over the past 22 years, I have yet to find a defendant who could go there, who could go back to that moment in time when they decided 
 
 to pull the trigger, or to otherwise murder someone. I have not been able to get anyone, any defendant.
 
Even those who have confessed to being guilty, to go back and explain to me what happened at that moment in time when they opted to pull the trigger 
 
 when they opted to commit the most heinous crimes known to man. And this case, qualifies under our death penalty statute.
 
Based on statutory, the statutory aggravating circumstances of two or more people being murdered by the defendant by one act, or pursuant to one 
 
 scheme or course of conduct. I don't question at all the decision of the state not to pursue the death penalty.
 
But as I sit here in this courtroom and look around the many portraits of judges and other court officials and reflect on the fact that over the past 
 
 century, your family, including you has been prosecuting people here in this courtroom and many have received the death penalty probably for lesser 
 
 conduct. Remind me of the expression you gave on the witness stand, was it tangled?
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
ALEX MURDAUGH, CONVICTED OF MURDERING WIFE AND SON: Tangled web, we weave.
 
NEWMAN: Oh, what tangle web we weave, what do you mean by that.
 
MURDAUGH: When I lied, I continue to lie.
 
NEWMAN: And the question is when will it end? When will it end? And it's ended already for the jury because they've concluded that you continue to 
 
 lie and lied throughout your testimony. And perhaps with all the throng of people here, they, for the most part all believe or 80, 99 percent believe 
 
 that you continue to lie now when your statement of denial to the court.
 
Perhaps you believe that it does not matter, that there's nothing that can mitigate a sentence, given the crime, the crimes that were committed you 
 
 know, a notice of alibi was filed in this case, by counsel in November. And we conducted a hearing, pre-trial hearing, in which you claimed to have 
 
 been someplace else at the time the crime was committed.
 
Then after all of the witnesses placed you at the scene of the crime at the last minute, last minutes or days, you switch courses and made it to being 
 
 there. And then that necessitated more lies and continues to lie. And I say where we will it in it's already ended for many who have heard you and 
 
 concluded that it'll never end.
 
But within your own soul, you have to deal with that. And I know you have to see Paul and Maggie during the night times when you're attempting to go 
 
 to sleep. I'm sure they come and visit you, I am sure.
 
MURDAUGH: And every night.
 
NEWMAN: I'm sure and they will continue to do so. And reflect on the last time they look to you and eyes as you look the jury and eyes, I don't know 
 
 person who has always been such a gregarious friendly person and cause your life to be tangled in such a weave where such a situation that you yourself 
 
 spun into.
 
And it's so unfortunate because you have such a lovely family of such friendly people including you and to go from that to this. Your license to 
 
 practice law has been stripped away from you, and turned from lawyer to witness.
 
And now have an opportunity to make your final appeal as an ex-lawyer and it's almost it's really surprising that you're waiving this right at this 
 
 time. And if you have to do so, it's on you; you're not compelled to say anything. But you have the opportunity to do so.
 
MURDAUGH: Again, I respect this court, but I'm innocent. I would never, under any circumstances hurt my wife Maggie, and I would never under any 
 
 circumstances hurt my Son Paul.
 
NEWMAN: And it might not have been you. It might have been the monster you become when you take 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 opioid pills, maybe you become 
 
 another person.
 
END