Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Sudan's Warring Sides Accuse Each Other of Truce Violations; Growing Condemnation of Russia at U.N. Security Council; Harry Belafonte Dead at 96; Corruption Fuels Lavish Life of Russian Minister's Family; U.S. Diplomats Leave Sudan; American Arrested with 24K Gold Handgun in Luggage. Aired 10-10:45a ET

Aired April 25, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  I'm Eleni Giokos from Abu Dhabi and this is CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
Coming up this hour, evacuations continue to be attempted in Sudan, as a shaky ceasefire shows signs of breaking. 
 
Russia's top diplomat chairs another U.N. Security Council meeting. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden announces his reelection bid. 
 
And a seismic day in cable news, with some big names departing. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
GIOKOS:  Gunfire in the streets of Khartoum and fighter jets roaring overhead, both warring sides are again accusing each other of violations 
 
 after the start of a latest 72 hour cease-fire. 
 
Sudan's military says the U.S. and Saudi Arabia brokered the truce, which is desperately needed to open up humanity, humanitarian corridors. 
 
 Meantime, foreign governments are frantically working to evacuate their diplomats as well as nationals. David McKenzie joins me now from 
 
 Johannesburg. 
 
David, the big question is, what is the status of the 72 hour cease-fire? 
 
Initially we heard it was largely intact. But things are changing on the ground. 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, that's right. I spoke to a doctor in Khartoum. He's been desperately trying to 
 
 help injured in the last 10 days or so, Eleni. 
 
And they said it was calmer at that point where they were, in the capital. We've also heard from eyewitnesses, talking to CNN journalists, that there 
 
 was some level of that ceasefire holding. 
 
But there are certainly signs, significant signs, that it's not holding in totality. And this is what we've seen multiple times now, that these 
 
 protracted ceasefires that they're hoping for are broken by ongoing fighting. 
 
Meanwhile, you do have these countries desperately trying to get their nationals out. You've had the U.S., Britain, Australians getting moved out, 
 
 Pakistanis, Filipinos, Chinese, French, South Africans, a whole host of different nations assisting their citizens to get out either via air or two 
 
 ports, Sudan on the Red Sea or through Egypt. 
 
Those seem to be the three major routes that foreign nationals are taking to get out. But you do have this growing sense that, with the ceasefire not 
 
 holding and the humanitarian situation deteriorating even further, that Sudanese are possibly trying to get out as well. 
 
Some have gone north through Egypt. The vast majority of this stage, at least according to the UNHCR, the refugee agency, have crossed from Darfur 
 
 into Sudan and the west of the country. They have been able to reach some of those people, some 20,000 of them, who join an existing population of 
 
 about 400,000 Sudanese refugees from previous conflicts. 
 
Listen to this man and the terrible conditions that him and his family had to deal with. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IDRISS YAYA ABDELKERIM, DISPLACED SUDANESE CITIZEN (through translator):  We have no water, no food, no mattresses to sleep. Some of us are sick and 
 
 need medical attention. We're all tired and hungry. 
 
We cannot go back because it's not safe. They took everything we have, shot at us and burned houses. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKENZIE:  At least at this stage, the intense pressure from various international actors and within Sudan for the warring generals to stop 
 
 their fighting doesn't appear to be making substantial strides to stopping this conflict. 
 
GIOKOS:  David, thank you so much for that update. We are hearing people are desperately trying to find routes out. Great to have you on the show 
 
 and breaking that down for us. 
 
But later in the newscast, I'll be talking with senior international correspondent Sam Kiley from Djibouti, a stopping point for many of those 
 
 evacuated foreign diplomats. And he'll tell us about these first publicly released photos of the weekend evacuation of U.S. embassy personnel from 
 
 Khartoum. 
 
And he'll be filling us in on a plan the U.S. is considering, to send troops to Port Sudan to help in the evacuation of Americans citizens. 
 
 That's coming up later in the program. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
GIOKOS:  Well, this hour Russia's foreign minister chairs a second day of the U.N. Security Council after an icy reception on Monday. The Kremlin 
 
 saying it's crucial for Moscow to voice its position today. 
 
Those comments after yesterday's meeting, one that was supposed to focus on international peace and security, turned very contentious. Western 
 
 diplomats slammed Lavrov for his country's unprovoked assault on Ukraine. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD, AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.:  It was the epitome of irony and hypocrisy to have the foreign minister of Russia chairing the 
 
 Security Council, a meeting on multilateralism, when Russia has, in their unilateral, unprovoked action against Ukraine, attacked everything that the 
 
 U.N. charter stands for. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS:  Well, we've got CNN senior U.N. correspondent Richard Roth joining us now for more on these meetings. 
 
I mean, hearing from Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield, hearing from foreign minister Lavrov, there was a lot of talk of what -- about what the charter 
 
 means. And there was a lot of finger pointing. And here's the thing.  
 
So much on the agenda and so many issues that need to be spoken about but they don't seem, obviously, to be looking at things from the same 
 
 perspective. One of the things on the agenda that is vital is way too from here on the grain deal. 
 
Could you break down some of those issues that are pertinent right now?
 
RICHARD ROTH, CNN SENIOR U.N. CORRESPONDENT:  Well, by the way, the -- as you see on your picture there, this meeting that is chaired by Russian 
 
 foreign minister Lavrov about to begin, he  is a former Russian ambassador here to the U.N. 
 
He's introducing other speakers, who will be here. Instead -- in listening to what you're asking about what else could be done, by the way, at 3 
 
 o'clock New York time, the council will discuss Sudan. 
 
But look, primarily the United Nations Security Council was set up to establish peace and security in the world. And there are just so many 
 
 different factional interests. With Ukraine, Russia will be ready to veto any significant action. 
 
With the Middle East, the U.S.; that's what will happen in effect today. There won't be a vote on any resolution. But the Israeli ambassador will 
 
 point out that he asked the Russians to not hold this meeting on this day because it's Israel's Memorial Day. 
 
That request was ignored and Israel will speak at about 10:45, 10:40 this morning. For Sergey Lavrov, he knows very well what countries want, don't 
 
 want; Russia is a permanent member of the council and they have a lot of power in their hands. 
 
GIOKOS:  Yes. Really fascinating, Richard. I -- just looking at some of the conversations,  the reality here is that tensions are very high.  
 
Where are we going to see these conversations ending, as the U.N. Security Council continues to meet? 
 
ROTH:  Well, the Ukraine crisis will not be settled here at the U.N., at the Security Council table. There have been over 60 meetings, I believe, on 
 
 Ukraine since the war started and the outcome is still the same. 
 
We see here, the U.N. special envoy for the Middle East speaking. So we will not hear from Lavrov, I think, at the beginning. You will hear from 
 
 the U.S. and any other country. Russia may be carrying a little favor with the Arab bloc here at the U.N., which is much bigger than Israel. 
 
But either way, that's what, to this morning's meeting is about. The big event will be Lavrov holding a press conference at 1 o'clock New York time. 
 
GIOKOS:  We have live pictures for you from the United Nations Security Council, meeting currently on the go, the theme multilateralism.  Of 
 
 course, dissecting that, what it means, the global issues, multiple issues playing out across various territories. 
 
Russia seems to be at the center of what is happening in Europe and causing not only geopolitical issues but also economic ones that are reverberating 
 
 around the world, that the issue now will be is looking at what other countries are going to be doing, how they will be voting, how they will be 
 
 perceiving what the Russian perceptions are at this point. 
 
And we've seen those lines coming through, specifically from the global south.  
 
Are you looking at a more divided Security Council?
 
ROTH:  It's been a while but mostly Russia lined up against Western countries and China deciding to back Russia when it feels like it. 
 
This meeting, by the way, these Middle East Security Council meetings are required at least once a month. And there are different meetings related to 
 
 the U.N., to the Middle East. So this is not exactly a case where everybody's rushing in. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
ROTH:  It's billed as a ministerial meeting but Tony Blinken is not coming up to represent the U.S. That should be the U.S. ambassador to the U.N. If 
 
 you mention multilateralism more than once in an hour, you will lose half your audience. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
GIOKOS:  That is true. All right, Richard Roth, great to have you on the show. Thank you so much. 
 
Well, we're following new developments on the ground in Ukraine. Two people are dead and 10 others injured following a Russian missile strike on a 
 
 museum in Kupyansk. That's in the Kharkiv region in Eastern Ukraine. 
 
Meanwhile to the south, the Ukrainian military is starting what it calls impressive results the past three days against Russian forces in Kherson. 
 
 Ukraine says the Russians are already evacuating local residents from the area, which is helping make their combat operations easier. 
 
U.S. President Biden has made it official. He is running for reelection in 2024. He made the announcement in a new video. Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
JOE BIDEN (D), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (voice-over):  When I ran for president four years ago, I said, we're in a battle for the soul of 
 
 America. We still are. The question we're facing is whether, in the years ahead, we have more freedom or less freedom, more rights or fewer. 
 
I know what I want the U.S. to be and I think you do, too. This is not a time to be complacent. That's why I'm running for reelection. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS:  OK, so what has the reaction been to the announcement? 
 
To give us insight into this, we've got CNN White House correspondent Arlette Saenz.
 
Interesting video. 
 
Tell me what, how it's been taken up, how people are responding to this. 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, President Biden made his reelection bid official with that video, as he's trying to draw on the 
 
 campaigns from his 2020 run, where he said that there is a battle for the soul of the country that has yet to be complete. 
 
You heard the president there really trying to warn of the threats that he believes American freedoms are facing when it comes to issues like abortion 
 
 rights, especially as he says, from what he has described as these MAGA extremists on the Republican Party. 
 
In that video they show footage of that January 6th insurrection as well as images of two men that he could potentially face off against in a general 
 
 election. That is former president Donald Trump and also Florida governor Ron DeSantis, who has yet to enter the 2024 race. 
 
Ultimately President Biden is hoping that he will have a record that will resonate with American voters heading into the general election in November 
 
 of 2024. 
 
But even as the president is putting together this campaign, advisers say he's not expected to hit the campaign trail immediately. He -- they argue 
 
 that part of what he can sell to the American public is his ability to do the job, day to day, as president. 
 
So a bit later today, we're going to hear him speak to a union group, as he tries to highlight some of his labor ties. But one thing that is really 
 
 facing the president as this campaign operation comes into shape, there are challenges ahead for him. 
 
There are -- there's polling that shows that the majority of the American public does not think he should run for reelection. And there were even 
 
 facing some headwinds within the Democratic Party, as a little over half say he shouldn't run.
 
Now one thing on the Democratic side is that, so far, they really haven't - - there haven't been any candidates that are appearing to pose any formidable threat to the president. But we have been hearing from 
 
 Republicans over the course of the past 24 hours in anticipation of this launch. 
 
One person, former Arkansas governor Asa Hutchinson, said that there shouldn't be a rematch of President Biden and president Trump. That is 
 
 something that could potentially face voters down the line. 
 
But certainly right now, the president is hoping that voters will side with his record and ultimately decide that they want him over the Republican 
 
 alternatives out there. 
 
GIOKOS:  All right, Arlette Saenz, thank you so much.
 
We've got some breaking news for you now. Singer, actor and activist Harry Belafonte has passed away. He started his career as a joyful entertainer 
 
 and grew into a civil rights icon. 
 
Belafonte found fame in the 1950s, singing "Day-O (Banana Boat Song)." But his calling was the American civil rights movement, eventually becoming a 
 
 close confidant of Martin Luther King Jr. 
 
Belafonte risked his career to be a spokesman and fundraiser for civil rights around the world, especially in the U.S. as well as South Africa. 
 
 Belafonte's spokesman says he died Tuesday morning from heart failure. He was 96 years old. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  The "Banana Boat Song's" opening line, "Day-o," put Harlem-born Harry Belafonte on the map. The son 
 
 of Caribbean immigrants worked hard to pull himself out of poverty through music and education. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
HARRY BELAFONTE, SINGER, ACTOR AND ACTIVIST:  I and my brothers and sisters were the first to be educated. 
 
ELAM (voice-over):  Belafonte's humble and sometimes rough beginnings in New York City helped shaped the man, who later would have a major impact on 
 
 American music and drama.
 
BELAFONTE:  I went to school here, drama school. My classmates were Marlon Brando, Sidney Poitier, Walter Matthau, Bea Arthur.
 
ELAM (voice-over):  Belafonte burst on to the entertainment scene in the early 1950s. He was dubbed "the king of calypso" because of the Jamaican 
 
 folk music he made popular. 
 
At around the same time, he won rave reviews for his role in the movie, "Carmen Jones." It was one of the first films with an all-Black cast to 
 
 garner box office success.
 
The man with the uniquely husky voice went on to make more than 40 albums, including original recordings and compilations, and starred in more than 10 
 
 movies spanning more than five decades. 
 
Belafonte won several Grammy Awards for his records in the early 1960s and was one of the first Black performers to win a Tony Award for the Broadway 
 
 hit, John Murray Anderson's "Almanac."
 
In his later years, his big screen projects dealt with the larger societal issues of race and class, like 1955's "White Man's Burden."
 
BELAFONTE:  It kind of just grew up and got away from me, you know.
 
ELAM (voice-over):  Although Belafonte's career kept him busy, he always made time for his family. He was the father of four children from two 
 
 marriages. His daughter, Shari Belafonte, followed in his footsteps to become an actress in her own right.
 
Although his music and movies gained him fame, Belafonte also made his mark as a political activist. In the '60s, he stood up for the civil rights of 
 
 Blacks in America and stood side-by-side with the likes of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Bobby Kennedy, both later assassinated. 
 
Two decades later, he turned his attention to the poor and powerless abroad, especially in Africa.
 
In 1985, Belafonte initiated the U.S. for Africa recording of "We Are the World," with some of the most famous entertainers. The song raised over $63 
 
 million for African relief. 
 
And for his humanitarianism, the artist received numerous awards from the Kennedy Center, the ACLU, the American National Medal of the Arts and the 
 
 Thurgood Marshall Lifetime Achievement Award.
 
Later in life, Belafonte further sealed his legacy, starting his own foundation, Sankofa, focused on social justice. In the documentary, Harry 
 
 Belafonte, "Sing Your Song," he contemplated his life of accomplishment and the work that lay ahead.
 
BELAFONTE:  I try to envision playing out the rest of my life almost exclusively devoted to reflection. But there's just too much in the world 
 
 to be done. The social activism, things that I believe in politically. 
 
And although I took a lot of heat for what I did then, I'm taking the heat again for some of the things I say and do. But if history is any measure, 
 
 then I'll probably wind up on the right side of the equation.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS:  That was Stephanie Elam for us. 
 
Well, still to come, a day of solemn reflection that normally rises above politics in Israel instead marked with unprecedented protests. 
 
Plus: 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  How is it possible that she can continue to do this? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  it's a very simple trick that they play. 
 
GIOKOS (voice-over):  Why some protests are popping up over this Russian socialite living the life of luxury in Paris. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
GIOKOS:  Today Israel marks its Memorial Day. It's a day to honor the nation's fallen soldiers as well as victims of terrorism. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS (voice-over):  Across the country, Israelis stood for two minutes of silence at 11 am local but the holiday's usually solemnity was overshadowed 
 
 by ongoing tensions over the government's plan to overhaul the country's judicial system. 
 
In an unprecedented scenario, protesters at a military cemetery shouted at Israel's controversial far right national security minister, Itamar Ben-
 
 Gvir. Other members of Benjamin Netanyahu's government were targeted with similar outbursts. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS:  CNN's Hadas Gold has been covering the day's events in Israel and joins me now from Jerusalem. 
 
This event, you know, should have trumped anything political and it turned very different. Tell me what happened on the ground. 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, normally the Memorial Day here rises above any sort of politics. And there were calls for this to 
 
 be the same way today. 
 
But there were calls from the families of fallen soldiers for the politicians to completely avoid these ceremonies, because of the fear of 
 
 these sorts of protests and that these sort of -- this sort of situation could detract from the solemnity of the day. 
 
Now some ministers did heed that call. Of course, Israeli politics have been so divided recently over the Israeli government's push for this 
 
 judicial overhaul. But we were at the military cemetery in Be'er-Sheva, where national security minister Itamar Ben-Gvir was scheduled to speak.
 
And he defied those calls not to go to these events. He went and he spoke. And there were some protesters. Some people shouted at him, saying that he 
 
 was not worthy. Some turned their backs on him. Some even started singing while we were there. 
 
He actually said in, as part of his speech, he said, "Let them yell. They're patriots as well." 
 
And there were also some people in the crowd who were supporting Itamar Ben-Gvir. This woman next to me, said that, "may God bless him" and he was 
 
 applauded a bit afterwards. 
 
But it just goes to show you how deep the divisions are. The deep political divisions are right now in Israel that, such a day, which normally rises 
 
 above politics, there had been calls from the prime minister, from the opposition leader, from the Israeli president for this day, to really be a 
 
 day of unity, to see these types of protests at these events and there were even some signs on the graves of soldiers. 
 
We saw signs from families, saying to their loved ones that they were sorry they were not going to attend the ceremony as a sign of protest and also as 
 
 a sign of protest to what they say was the politicization of such a day, Eleni. 
 
GIOKOS:  Hadas Gold, thank you. 
 
Well you can read about these stories and more from the region, including details on a group of celebrity activists trying to destigmatize being 
 
 Palestinian in a new documentary. That's all in CNN's "Meanwhile in the Middle East" newsletter. 
 
You can go to cnn.com/mideastnewsletter to sign up or you can scan the QR code that's on your screen right now. 
 
Russia's top diplomat is chairing another U.N. Security Council meeting today. On Monday, Sergey Lavrov chaired a meeting that was supposed to 
 
 focus on peace. But he was strongly criticized by Western diplomats over Russia's actions in Ukraine. 
 
This comes as Moscow threatens to terminate the Black Sea grain deal. While the war grinds, a top Russian official's ex wife is living the good life in 
 
 France. She's spending lavishly and partying at elite resorts --
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
GIOKOS:  -- despite her ex husband facing E.U. and U.S. sanctions. Our chief international correspondent Clarissa Ward is in London for us. 
 
Clarissa, great to have you on. It is unbelievable to think that you've got, you know, a wife or ex wife of a Russian official, spending this much 
 
 money in the streets of Paris and going largely unnoticed it seems. 
 
WARD:  That's right and that's why, increasingly, a lot of people are seeing red about this. 
 
And the question is, is she an ex wife really or is that just a technicality?
 
And where does that money that she's spending so freely actually come from?
 
Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WARD (voice-over):  Svetlana Maniovich is a woman of expensive tastes. Diamonds and couture, extravagant parties and European vacations.
 
Just last month, she was seen shopping and dancing in the elite French ski resort of Courchevel.
 
But Maniovich is no ordinary Russians socialite. She is the other half of Russia's deputy minister of defense, Timur Ivanov, one of the most senior 
 
 architects of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
 
And, according to a shocking investigation, Maniovich continues to gallivant around France more than a year into Russia's bloody war, despite 
 
 the fact that Ivanov was sanctioned by the E.U. in October.
 
The explosive report, put out by the Anti-Corruption Foundation, an investigative outfit founded by Russia's jailed opposition leader, Alexei 
 
 Navalny, is based, they say, on a leaked archive of more than 8,000 of Maniovich's emails over the last 12 years and has racked up more than six 
 
 million views on YouTube.
 
It claims that on March 25, 2022, as dozens of missiles rained down on the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv, Maniovich spent more than $100,000 in a top 
 
 Paris jewelry store on the Place Vendome.
 
WARD:  How is it possible that she can continue to do this?
 
MARIA PEVCHIKH, HEAD OF INVESTIGATIONS, ANTI-CORRUPTION FOUNDATION:  It's a very simple trick that they played. Point number one, Svetlana has an 
 
 Israeli passport through her first -- with her first husband. 
 
And second of all, six months into the war, they have filed for divorce. They haven't -- they haven't split any assets. Nothing has changed in terms 
 
 of like, you know, daily life. Whatever they owned, they keep owning together but technically, they're not legally married anymore.
 
WARD (voice-over):  Equally shocking are the opulent lifestyle and lavish spending that the leaked emails document. According to Russian business 
 
 publication "RBC," Ivanov's official income was once declared to be around 14.2 million rubles a year, less than $175,000.
 
Yet, the Navalny group's report calculated that the couple spent more than a quarter of a million  in just one summer. CNN has not been able to 
 
 independently verify those numbers.
 
WARD:  How is he funding this lifestyle?
 
PEVCHIKH:  Well, the answer is corruption. Corruption and specifically kickbacks.
 
WARD (voice-over):  According to the Russian government, Ivanov oversees construction for Russia's Ministry of Defense, including what the Anti-
 
 Corruption Foundation describes as lucrative contracts to rebuild the Ukrainian city of Mariupol, which fell to Russian forces under punishing 
 
 bombardment last May.
 
PEVCHIKH:  Russian army has destroyed, demolished 70 percent of the apartment blocks in town. They had to build new ones and they did. So that 
 
 company that built those displace houses in Mariupol, it is the same company that pays for Timur Ivanov's' personal bills.
 
WARD (voice-over):  Despite claims of such brazen corruption, Putin toured the construction project last month, a request for comment on the 
 
 investigation from the Russian ministry of defense received no reply.
 
In France, though, the pressure may be mounting. On Sunday afternoon, the Anti-Corruption Foundation organized a small protest outside the Paris 
 
 apartment it claims Maniovich still rents, demanding to know how she is allowed to spend the profits of Russia's war in the heart of France. A 
 
 question so far without any satisfactory answer.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
WARD:  Now CNN has reached out, Eleni, to the French foreign ministry. We received a statement from them that says, quote, "We do not comment on 
 
 individual situations. France, with its E.U. partners, has ended visa facilitation for Russian citizens --
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
WARD:  -- "and has also adopted targeted individual sanctions against 1,499 Russian officials and their supporters, which resulted in an asset freeze 
 
 and a ban on their entry into the European Union." 
 
No mention there, though, of Svetlana Maniovich herself. We did, of course, reach out to her, too, via email also on that Instagram account. Perhaps 
 
 unsurprisingly, though, we have not yet received any reply, Eleni. 
 
GIOKOS:  Not surprising at all. Clarissa, brilliant reporting. Thank you so very much. 
 
Well you're watching CONNECT THE WORLD and still ahead, newly released images of American diplomats evacuated out of Sudan. More on those who have 
 
 gotten out and those left behind. That's coming up next. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
GIOKOS:  Welcome back. I'm Eleni Giokos in Abu Dhabi and you're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
Returning to our top story now, Sudan's military and the paramilitary, Rapid Support Forces, are accusing each other of violating the latest 72-
 
 hour ceasefire. Heavy clashes are reported in areas of northern Khartoum states. 
 
The World Health Organization says the death toll in 11 days of fighting now tops 450, with more than 4,000 people injured. We are hearing more 
 
 harrowing stories from people who have managed to get out of Sudan. And they are fleeing to safety in neighboring countries. 
 
And here's what an American Sudanese woman told CNN about a perilous bus ride across the desert with her family into Egypt. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAFA BABKIR, SUDANESE REFUGEE:  I think the most terrifying thing of the journey was just thinking about who would bury us if we were to get killed. 
 
 When you're in the desert and the road, the darkest thought I had was, am I going to get killed in front of my family? 
 
Or are they going to get killed in front of me?
 
And if so, who's going to bury the body? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS:  We've got more on those photographs of American evacuees we showed you a little bit earlier in the newscast. CNN Sam Kiley and his team are 
 
 where the first -- were the first to get access to those pictures of diplomats evacuated from the U.S. embassy in Khartoum. 
 
They were airlifted out over the weekend by U.S. Special Operations Forces and transported to Djibouti. And we've got Sam Kiley joining us now from 
 
 Djibouti. 
 
Sam, I want to talk about the cease-fire, first, because it's fragile. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
GIOKOS:  It doesn't seem to be holding. And now the question becomes, how does this impact evacuations and the rescue mission?
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Eleni, the air evacuations are being organized principally from here, the Djiboutian 
 
 capital. The international airport here, you can see behind me there, Japanese Hercules aircraft just landed a few minutes ago and next to it, 
 
 the Spanish aircraft; beyond it is Moroccan, French air force, the RAF, British Royal Air Force is also here. 
 
The Brits had been hoping that this ceasefire might mean that they could avail themselves of a reduction in violence so that they could get some of 
 
 their citizens. They estimates some 4,000 people they might have to evacuate to a location outside Khartoum that they could land. 
 
That's unclear as to whether or not they've been able to do that. That was their ambition at the beginning of today. But more the focus now, even with 
 
 this air operation, is turning to Port Sudan, where the French authorities have said that they are embarking some 500 people that were able to get 
 
 there from Khartoum in a U.N. convoy. 
 
They're getting 500 people onto a frigate and taking them to Jeddah across the Red Sea. Now that is a significant development in that they've been 
 
 able to dock their frigate at Port Sudan. 
 
That would indicate that American and British plans to try to use Port Sudan and some of their warships might come to fruition and might mean that 
 
 they are -- no obligation or no necessity at all to deploy troops themselves to secure that port. 
 
Clearly they've been able to negotiate that. So that is a significant step forward. But the issue really is the length of this ceasefire holding and 
 
 the conditions in Khartoum. And we were sent a voicemail by a Sudanese individual, whose name we're keeping a secret, because he was able to 
 
 communicate in very clear terms, I think, just what ordinary people, whether they're locals or international citizens, are up against. This is 
 
 what he sent us. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I don't know if you can hear this but there's no shots fire as I'm speaking with you. As for the food situation and the supplies, 
 
 food is OK but shops are running out of food completely. 
 
All the factories in Bahari (ph) have been looted by the -- by some people. And as for the water supply, still, we don't have water for the 11th day 
 
 continuously. We only get water from a well nearby. 
 
I wish to stay to see how this is going to be -- going to progress, if it's going to be worse indefinitely, I will escape and there is no other way -- 
 
 or there is no -- it is what it is. War, you cannot say at a war situation. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KILEY:  Because of that war situation, he mentions their food is in short supply, water in short supply, fuel in short supply; vehicles, very 
 
 difficult to get hold of and then you have the dangers of crossing multiple front lines in a  highly chaotic conflict situation if people need to get 
 
 out over land. 
 
Now, that is some hope that this ceasefire may facilitate that. We're not getting any strong indications that it is proving as sufficiently strong a 
 
 ceasefire to do that. Indeed, we've just heard they're very much the contrary. So that will then accelerate planning for possible mass movements 
 
 of air, possible use of Port Sudan. 
 
Every military contingency is being planned for. There have been no decisions yet as people wait to see how this ceasefire plays out over the 
 
 next few hours. It was 72 hours  supposedly from midnight last night in Khartoum time. 
 
GIOKOS:  All right, Sam, thank you very much for that reporting, we appreciate your insight. And of course, you were the first to get access to 
 
 those images of the evacuees over the weekend. Thank you so much. 
 
Sam Kiley there in Djibouti for us. 
 
Up next on CONNECT THE WORLD, a group of Premier League players were so embarrassed by how they played this weekend, they are offering a refund to 
 
 fans. All the details when we come back. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
GIOKOS:  A woman from the U.S. could be asked to leave Australia, all because of what was found in her suitcase. Sydney airport officials say 
 
 they found a 24 karat gold-plated handgun in her luggage. There it is. Well, the woman does not have a permit for the firearm in the country. 
 
Australia has some of the most strict gun laws in the world. Intentionally bringing a firearm into the country without prior approval can carry a 
 
 stiff penalty, up to 10 years in prison. 
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT) 
 
END