Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Suspect Jack Teixeira Charged Under The Espionage Act For Leaking Pentagon Secrets; United States Ambassador To Sudan Sheltering In Place Amid The Clashes In The Capital; Court Documents: Suspect And Bob Lee Appear To Argue Before Deadly Stabbing; Murder Suspect Facing 26 Years To Life In Bob Lee Stabbing; Study: 100K Nurses Quit Over Pandemic-Related Burnout, Stress; Police Shoot, Kill Man After Responding To Wrong Home. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired April 15, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:59:58]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST (on camera): All right. In a quick programming note, Nick Paton Walsh embarks on a treacherous journey through the Darien Gap, a lawless jungle, riddled with danger, alongside migrants, hoping for a better life on the other side.
 
The first installment of the highly anticipated program. "THE WHOLE STORY WITH ANDERSON COOPER", premieres tomorrow night, right here on CNN at 8:00 p.m.
 
All right. Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
And we begin with the new details in the case against a 21-year-old Air National Guardsmen, accused of leaking top secret Pentagon information.
 
WHITFIELD (voice over): Jack Teixeira appeared in court yesterday and is now facing charges. His arrest follows an intense week-long search for the source of the online leak of secret documents.
 
CNN's Oren Liebermann has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT (voice over): In a federal courtroom in Boston, 21-year-old Jack Teixeira faced his legal fate for the first time, charged through the Espionage Act with unauthorized removal and retention of classified documents and national security information.
 
The airman first class at the center of an investigation into a leak of top-secret information.
 
In court, his father yelled out, "Love you, Jack." The response, "Love you too. Dad."
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you surprise by this?
 
LIEBERMANN: Outside the courthouse Teixeira's family thrust into the spotlight with national security interests at stake, said nothing.
 
Teixeira was an I.T. specialist with the Massachusetts Air National Guard. He enlisted before graduating high school. His senior year photo had a quote now appears prophetic. "Actions speak louder than words."
 
He's had a top-secret clearance since 2021, and access to sensitive compartmentalized information, in a job that requires a lifetime binding nondisclosure agreement.
 
MERRICK GARLAND, UNITED STATES ATTORNEY GENERAL: People who sign agreements to be able to receive classified documents acknowledge the importance to the national security of not disclosing those documents, and we intend to do a send that message how important it is to our national security.
 
LIEBERMANN: One day earlier and one hour south, Teixeira was spotted on his back porch, reading a book. Moments later, an FBI tactical team closed in on Teixeira, taking him into custody outside his house.
 
Those who knew him growing up describe him as a bit of a loner and into guns.
 
BROOKE CLEATHERO, FORMER CLASSMATE OF JACK TEIXEIRA: He doesn't have a lot of friends. But like some of the friends he did have are also kind of in the same boat as him in a way. But as people are just wary of them.
 
LIEBERMANN: But on Discord, an online platform frequently used by gamers, Teixeira built his own group of friends and followers. He's believed to be the head of a chat server named, Thug Shaker Central.
 
Court documents allege that late last year, he began sharing classified information. A user in the chat group telling the FBI, at first, it was just paragraphs of text and then photographs of documents that contained what appeared to be classification markings.
 
ANDREW MCCABE, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST (on camera): The fact is it's quite easy to do if you are a person who has decided to violate your oath, to violate the training, and the rules that you operate under. And to proactively make a decision to break the law.
 
LIEBERMANN: In the days before his arrest, court documents say Teixeira used his government computer to search classified intelligence reporting for the word leak on attempt to find out if investigators were on to him.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
LIEBERMANN (on camera): After Teixeira's first court appearance on Friday, he'll have a detention hearing on Wednesday. This whole legal process, it seems moving forward very quickly.
 
About a week from when President Joe Biden, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, and others first learned about the leaks, to the arrest, and the prosecution now moving forward for Jack Teixeira. Oren Liebermann, CNN, at the Pentagon.
 
WHITFIELD: Oren, thanks so much.
 
All right. Let's talk more about this. Joining me right now, Cedric Leighton, he's a retired U.S. Air Force colonel and a CNN military analyst.
 
Colonel, great to see you. So, help people understand what kind of rigors does someone go through before given this kind of access, the kind of access and title that Teixeira had?
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Yes, Fred. Well, good afternoon. This is a very key element of this -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
WHITFIELD: It's morning, somewhere.
 
LEIGHTON: Very key element of this is whether you have to go through as a single background investigation, and it's actually a requirement for his Air Force specialty.
 
So, what that single scope background Investigation does, Fred, is it actually provides for a whole background check.
 
What you're doing is -- the, you know, whoever's doing the investigation, whether it's the FBI, the Office of Personnel Management or the military.
 
You're going through all the things, all the contacts that a person has had, the types of things that they knew. You know, are there any financial improprieties? Anything like that, that could potentially pose a risk to someone who would be granted a security clearance.
 
And they do an investigation before giving them full access to the top secret, SCI level of clearance.
 
WHITFIELD: These shared documents were critical. I mean, they're very important. They revealed, you know, the U.S. intelligence on South Korea.
 <br>[12:05:03]
 
Ukraine's war strategy, Egypt. I mean, what, what and how will the U.S. try to mend fences with these allies? I mean, this isn't the first time we've seen this kind of security breach by people in the U.S. military, or at least, once in the military, revealing, you know, secrets between the U.S. and allies and beyond. But in this case, what can be done?
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, this is a really difficult question. A lot of diplomatic tap down going to have to go on here. And, you know, what really has to happen is the allies need to be assured that we still have their best interests at heart, and that we also are able and willing to protect the information that they share with us. On the other part of this, for the kinds of things that are being, you know, basically looked at in terms of intelligence collection on allies, that becomes a much tougher thing to do, because in some ways, we have to do it, because governments change in other places, even countries that were once allied with us, some of them have, you know, as we know, historically have all of a sudden gone against us.
 
So, it becomes important from an intelligence perspective, for us to continue to watch these allies. But to do it in a way that allows us to actually, you know, do it in a more cooperative sense. And that's, that's something that really requires a lot of difficult work.
 
And it also means that we're going to have to recalibrate our intelligence collection efforts in all of these areas. Some of those sources are going to dry up, no question about it.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. And then, according to The Washington Post, also included among the documents, is the assessment that Taiwan cannot defend itself against China's air superiority in an invasion.
 
Does this, you know, underscore how damaging a leak can be? And, you know, as you talk about mending fences, will there be a feeling that this may be a representative of a -- an individual, as opposed to representative of, you know, the U.S. government, the U.S. military?
 
LEIGHTON: Well, one, we hope that most people who are victimized by something like this, you know, being an ally, -- allied government who were -- you know, as some other entity, they would understand that this is the action of a rogue individual.
 
Now, when it comes specifically to the Washington Post report on the purported unpreparedness of Taiwan's air defenses, that's a significant issue. But it also underscores the need for the U.S. to actually monitor things like this, so that we know what kinds of things we would have to do if we were to make the decision to defend Taiwan.
 
And so, it also shows that there is that that aspect of it. And then, on the Chinese side, of course, they're going to look at this and say, maybe the Taiwanese are more vulnerable than we -- than we thought, and they may choose to act in a way that would not be good for peace in that part of the world.
 
WHITFIELD: And then, reportedly, in the documents, were assessments that Ukraine's air defense may be largely depleted as late as next month. How potentially damaging is that?
 
LEIGHTON: Very damaging. Now, this is something that, you know, a lot of us on the outside, analysts you, like myself, and General Hertling and others have looked at this, and you know, some of us have come up with the -- and basically a similar conclusion using open-source information.
 
About the fact that the U.S. government is actually saying this. That does mean that, you know, not only are we going to have to ramp up support to Ukraine, policy continues the way it is -- the way it has been right now.
 
And that we also need to make sure that we ramp up not only production, but that we find better ways to get war material weapons ammunition to the Ukrainians so that they can use it in a much more timely fashion.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Colonel Cedric Leighton, we'll leave it there for now. Thanks so much.
 
LEIGHTON: You bet, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. The U.S. Supreme Court has hit pause in the battle over medication abortion. On Friday, Justice Samuel Alito temporarily extended access to Mifepristone without any restrictions for now. The move gives the Supreme Court more time to consider the issue. Alito says the order is stayed until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Wednesday.
 
And this comes after an emergency appeal was filed by both the Justice Department and the drug manufacturer. Significant restrictions on Mifepristone had been set to go into effect early this morning after lower court rulings ordered access to be limited.
 
And world leaders are calling for peace amid fierce fighting in Sudan. Today, a paramilitary group claims it has control of the presidential palace and the airport in the capital of Khartoum, as tensions between those forces and the army erupt into violence.
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
Heavy gunfire and fighting has been reported around the palace and army headquarters. The U.S. ambassador to Sudan said he is sheltering in place amid the clashes. The military has been in charge of Sudan since a coup in 2021. And the prior ousting of the former long-term president. 
 
For the very latest, let's bring in CNN's Larry Madowo. So, Larry, what more do we know about this unfolding and very tenuous situation?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Fred, we're hearing to the first reports of casualties from the Sudan doctors trade union that says three people have been killed in these clashes between the military and the paramilitary group, the Rapid Support Forces.
 
Two people, they say died at the Khartoum airport, and another in a different part of the country. And some hospitals report receiving wounded when the full accounting of this is done, there might be more casualties. But that's what we know right now.
 
It's a power struggle between Gen. Muhamed Dagalo, who is better known as Hemedti. He is the leader of the Rapid Support Forces, this powerful paramilitary group that's estimated to number about 100,000.
 
He's number two, in the leadership of Sudan. Number one is the de- facto leader of the Sovereign Council that leads Sudan, that is General al-Burhan. And the two of them have to find out a way to merge the two units together. And that is one of the main sticking points in this agreed deal that's supposed to lead Sudan back to civilian rule.
 
I want to give you some important context from U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: Major parties in in Khartoum, some weeks ago reached a very important framework agreement on how to proceed with a transition to civilian government.
 
And there's been real progress in trying to move that forward. But I think there's a real opportunity to move forward on the agreed framework. And certainly, that's what we're what we're strongly supporting. It's a -- it's a fragile situation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO: It's a fragile situation that has countries around the world concerned. We are hearing condemnation from the U.N., the U.S., the U.K.
 
Even the United Arab Emirates, and from Russia. The U.S. right now says it has no intentions to evacuate its citizens out of Sudan, but it's asking them to shelter in place.
 
We have also statement with the African Union, which is an important regional voice here. It says it's appealing to the parties, the armed forces and the Rapid Support Forces, in particular, to immediately stop the destruction of the country, the terrorization of its population, and the bloodshed during the last 10 days of Ramadan.
 
So, this is hurtling dangerously towards a civil war for a country that's already undergone so much conflict and destabilization and economic hardship. So, it's the last thing that it needs.
 
And yet, right now, as we come into nightfall in Sudan, still, no point where this is heading and a lot of people really worrying for what tomorrow will bring. Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: A very tenuous, very volatile. All right. Larry Madowo, thank you so much.
 
Ukrainian officials continue to search through rubble for survivors after Russian forces launched a series of deadly strikes in eastern Ukraine. Ukrainian officials say at least 11 people are confirmed dead, including a 2-year-old boy in a barrage of strikes on residential buildings and houses in Sloviansk.
 
More than 20 people are reportedly injured and those numbers are almost certain to go up as the search continues. A regional official says these attacks are among the worst attacks on Sloviansk since the conflict began.
 
Still ahead, a long road of recovery ahead in South Florida after a one in 1,000-year flood. We'll take you there next.
 
Plus, we're learning new details in the fatal stabbing of the Cash App founder Bob Lee, and the alleged argument that he got into with the suspect right before the murder.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:17:51]
 
WHITFIELD: Right now, water is receding in southeast Florida following a historic and catastrophic flooding event that wreaked havoc on the region. 
 
I mean, this picture is hard to believe. It closed transportation hubs, schools, office, government offices, and completely submerged streets and access points. Shutting down the airport for a while.
 
Over two feet or a month's worth of rain fell in about an hour on Wednesday. Closing down Fort Lauderdale Airport for multiple hours, trapping frustrated travelers inside.
 
And it has now reopened, the airport that is. And some of the cleanup has begun. Here now is CNN's Leyla Santiago.
 
LEYLA SANTIAGO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Folks here in South Florida returning to some sense of normalcy. The airport back open, flights coming and going, water receding, but the damage here has been done for many of these communities.
 
SANTIAGO (voice over): I spoke to one gentleman who at the time didn't have water, called this a disaster. Said, in eight years of living in his home, he's never seen anything like this.
 
Remember, we're talking about historic numbers. The National Weather Service saying that on Thursday, three feet of flooding observed in areas, and that was enough to force people to leave their cars immediately, leave their homes immediately, kept rescue crews very busy overnight as they tried to get to vulnerable people trying to get out of flooded homes and hundreds of people had to turn to emergency shelters as well.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEVIN GUTHRIE, DIRECTOR, FLORIDA DIVISION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: It is a significant flooding event. I will say this is a second most catastrophic flooding event that I've seen in my tenure as an emergency manager and public safety over the last 33 years.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANTIAGO (on camera): So, again, the words we heard to describe what many in these communities' mouth, nightmare disaster, things they'd never seen before. And yet, the cleanup effort is still far from over. Leyla Santiago, CNN, Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
 
WHITFIELD: Very miserable a situation. And right now, even more severe weather in parts of the U.S. More than 50 million people are under severe storm threats across the Mississippi River Valley today. Facing potential tornadoes, powerful winds, and large hail.
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
Let's go now to CNN's Allison Chinchar in the Weather Center. It's just nonstop.
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST (on camera): Yes. And even Florida, they're getting a break today. But they are going to get their turn at some of the severe weather as it pushes East tomorrow.
 
But for today, the main concern stretches from the Midwest all the way down towards the Gulf Coast.
 
You even have some of those watches and warnings or warnings that had been off and on throughout the day. You've got a couple of severe thunderstorm warnings, as we speak.
 
Now says the storms begin to shift in towards Mississippi. Again, the big concerns here with the storms are really going to be hail, a lot of lightning, damaging winds, and yes, even an isolated or tornado or two kind of mixed in.
 
But hail is certainly going to be the biggest threat. And most widespread.
 
We're not just talking small hail, say dimes or quarters. We're talking larger than golf ball. Tennis ball sized hail. That's what dents your car, breaks your windshield. So, we're talking significant hail here.
 
Now, for most of these areas, a lot of this really ramps up through the afternoon and will continue into the evening and overnight timeline.
 
So, if you are some of these areas across Tennessee, Kentucky, where the overnight timeline is going to be key, make sure you have the ability to get those emergency alerts on your phone to wake you up if it's occurring during the overnight timeframe.
 
Flooding is also possible, especially along the Mississippi Valley, where again, so many of these areas have had a lot of rain in the last few weeks. So that ground is already saturated there.
 
Even though we're only really adding about one to three inches more, again, it's on top of what they've already had the last few weeks.
 
And another area that's going to see rain, not necessarily today, but tomorrow is going to be South Florida. So, there is also a marginal risk there for some isolated flooding.
 
For the same exact reason, Fred, that ground is still so saturated from the rain that came in Wednesday and Thursday. And now we're adding even more on top of it.
 
WHITFIELD: Terrible, terrible. All right. Allison Chinchar, thank you so much.
 
CHINCHAR: Thanks.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still ahead, we are learning new details about the timeline of events surrounding the murder of Cash App founder Bob Lee, and the alleged argument that he had with the suspect before the stabbing. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:26:10]
 
WHITFIELD: New details in the gruesome stabbing death of Bob Lee. Court documents say the founder of Cash App appears to have gotten into an argument with the man now accused of killing him right before the stabbing.
 
The record say Lee and the suspect Nima Momeni were connected through Momeni's sister.
 
CNN's Veronica Miracle has the story.
 
VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): In a newly filed motion to detain, the district attorney here in San Francisco lays out a picture of exactly why they believe Nima Momeni killed Bob Lee, nine days ago.
 
That document insists that Nima Momeni stabbed Bob Lee three times. One of those times in the heart, which ultimately ended up killing Lee.
 
It also links the two through Momeni's sister. Now, there was some kind of altercation according to the district attorney at some point in the night.
 
Exactly what happened, and exactly what the motive is for this killing, the district attorney would not say, but she did say they have a clearer picture of exactly what led up to the stabbing. Thanks to surveillance video.
 
Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROOKE JENKINS, DISTRICT ATTORNEY OF SAN FRANCISCO: The two men left in apartment in Millennium Tower prior to the stabbing.
 
Together, they got into Mr. Momeni's vehicle. Mr. Momeni was driving. They ended up in the area of the stabbing. And that is where they exited the vehicle. And approximately five minutes later is when the stabbing took place.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIRACLE: Momeni was supposed to be arraigned today. He was in court, but his arraignment has been continued to April 25th. When he did walk, and his family was sitting in the front row, including, were told, his sister and an older woman who both held up their hands in the shape of a heart, showing their support for him.
 
He acknowledged them and smiled, but said few words during the very quick hearing. His attorney who's representing him did speak to the media and said this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBERT CANNY, ATTORNEY FOR NIMA MOMENI: The facts will come out. What is basically in the press and what's being said, the accurate as far as what occurred will come out in terms of time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIRACLE: Momeni is facing a murder charge with an enhancement, because this was committed with a knife, according to the district attorney. She said he is facing 26 years to life in prison. Veronica Miracle, CNN, San Francisco.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Thanks so much, Veronica.
 
With me now is CNN legal analyst and criminal defense attorney Joey Jackson. Joey, great to see you.
 
So, how will the fact that these two men were allegedly fighting before the stabbing factor into the case?
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Yes, Fredricka. Good to be with you. It will factor in, in a significant way. I think investigators and prosecutors will determine what motivation led to this. Certainly, there was a connection, what went arrive that would lead to such a tragic outcome?
 
I think they'll track really what they did have and what they laid out. Right? The nature of the interactions on that particular night, the actual time of -- that the, one of the parties arrived at the particular apartment. They are seeing leaving together.
 
Certainly, the surveillance seems to indicate that they will park in that BMW, that they got out of that BMW, all under surveillance from what we understand. That seems to be the indication that the decedent unfortunately missed the lay.
 
They had some interaction, he was approached, apparently, being stabbed, thereafter stumbling, and of course, calling 911.
 
But the fact that they were known to each other would certainly lead investigators, Fredricka to determine what if any motivation existed for why his life was taken?
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, OK. And then, what's also being, you know, publicly revealed is that there's other evidence that look like agitators, you know, prior to his stabbing.
 
Court documents showing that Momeni's sister checked in on Lee sometime, you know, that evening after the disagreement by texting, you know, just want to make sure, you're doing OK, because I know Nima came way down hard on you.
 <br>[12:30:08]
 
WHITFIELD: How will that kind of evidence be use to help build the prosecutor's case?
 
JACKSON: Yes. So, Fredricka, it's important to understand that in any prosecution, particularly here, where you have a murder prosecution, which simply means that you are -- you intended to kill someone, and you didn't have the justification to do it. A motive is not an element of a crime. What does that mean? It means that in the event that this went to a jury trial, we don't know that, right? We just know that ultimately, the person accused will be brought before a judge, et cetera. And then they'll have an opportunity to dispute the case, get the discovery and information and fight it, make motions, et cetera.
 
But there'll be an opportunity if there is a trial to present, what are your defenses? Remember, in doing that, the prosecution simply has to establish that you committed this murder that you intended to kill, and you did. The evidence seem to suggest that this compelling as it relates to that even the recovery of the knife at that particular scene, there's a trail of blood, certainly there'll be a DNA analysis on that.
 
But whether or not and what the motivation was and whether there was an actual argument, certainly the jury inquiring minds always want to know, right, why someone would engage in this activity, but prosecutors don't have to establish what if anything, they will arguing about what the dispute was about whether there was a past history, but I think it certainly would buttress the strength of the case to establish that apparently, the person who killed them had, you know, just negative intentions in his mind based upon some dispute.
 
WHITFIELD: So we did hear and you just heard that sound bite from, you know, one of the attorneys representing Nima Momeni. And that attorney said, you know, the full picture is going to come out what you've heard so far publicly just is not the full picture. And so there's more information in the case, if you were representing Momeni, in a case like this, and it's already now pretty highly publicized, you know, what would be the strategy?
 
JACKSON: I think that there's a lot to overcome here. Now, clearly, it's early, right? And the fact is, he has not even been brought before the court. He has been in terms of detaining him. Remember, Fredricka, there was a motion by the prosecutors that he remained in jail without bail, it was for that purpose. But he hasn't been arraigned. That means the formal charges have been, you know, really, with the presence of his counsel that leveled upon him.
 
He hasn't been, you know, given his rights by a particular judge with counsel, present, et cetera. But what I want to say is this, what ends up happening is, is in this case, the police essentially have everything here that you need. What is that? They have the connection between them leaving the apartment. They have the BMW going to a remote location. They have the parties entering out of that car. They have the two -- the interaction between the two.
 
They have the BMW speeding off after the fact. They have the text message that you raise with respect to their negative interactions between the two. And of course, the e-mail also said, you, right, Mr. Lee, were classy, apparently the other person wasn't. And so I think it's a case of great difficulty. I think you want to examine everything. You certainly want to ensure that he the person accused was the person who was there. You want to make sure that the identity is proper, and certainly he's not falsely accused.
 
But remember, you know, from a defense perspective, I think based upon what we know now, certainly it looks like they have that is authorities, the person in custody who did this, and the person in custody is going to really have a difficult task in really disseminating the evidence and establishing that it just ain't so. It seemingly is so. And it seemingly is upon this case, that he appears to be guilty.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Oh, wow. It's a sad case, I imagine. I mean for the family members, and you've got the sister of now the suspect. And now she is learning that some of the words that she texted prosecutors will of course use, you know, against him, her brother, so very, very sad case in so many ways. And of course, the Lee family devastated too. All right, Joey Jackson, thanks so much.
 
All right, coming up, a new study found that tens of thousands of nurses have left the workforce due to pandemic related burnout and stress. And many more say they are planning to leave. The impact it's having on hospitals across the country, next.
 <br>[12:34:31]
 
And you're looking at live pictures from the steps of the U.S. Supreme Courts where abortion rights activists are protesting, the Texas judge's ruling to limit access to abortion -- the abortion drug, mifepristone. On Friday, Justice Samuel Alito temporarily extended access to the pill while the court reviews the case. We're back in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: A new study and looked into the pandemic's impact on nurses in the U.S. and found that around 100,000 registered nurses over the past two years left the workforce due to stress and burnout. What's more, nearly 800,000 said they intend to leave the job by 2027 for the same reasons. CNN's Dr. Sanjay Gupta spoke about this with two colleagues in Atlanta.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: When you hear these numbers, first of all, is that surprising?
 
DANA MATHIEU, REGISTERED NURSE, GRADY HEALTH SYSTEM: No, not at all. I mean, during COVID it was probably the most stressful times of my life, of most of our lives. I've seen my colleagues, a lot of them left. A lot of them felt uncomfortable.
 
SAVANNA WEAVER, REGISTERED NURSE, GRADY HEALTH SYSTEM: I tell all new nurses coming into the field to take time for yourself outside of work, to not pick up overtime despite the pressures to do so when you're working in the hospital.
 
I think during COVID, a lot of people were doing more and more, requiring more of them, more time in the hospital.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: All right with me now to discuss his Maryann Alexander, Chief Officer of Nursing Regulation at the National Council of State Boards of Nursing and one of the authors of The Study. Maryann, so great to see you. So those nurses say, no, yes, thank you. Those nurses say, no they're not shocked. You say, you were shocked by the results, why?
 <br>[12:40:15]
 
MARYANN ALEXANDER, CHIEF OFFICER OF NURSING REGULATION, NCSBN: Well, we anticipated that the numbers in the workforce, we're going to be less than what we had seen in the survey two years prior. We didn't expect that the number would be 100,000 nurses. And what was even more shocking to us was the fact that 1 million nurses if you include RNs and LPNs, are planning on leaving the workforce in the next five years.
 
And what was surprising, even more alarming about that was the 25 percent of those nurses, were young nurses with 10 years of experience, or less. And routinely, when we conduct the survey, the nurses they're planning on leaving the workforce, are near retirement. And these nurses are at the other end of the spectrum. And that is a big alarm for all of us.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, I mean, that's devastating to lose that kind of experience, you know, in your ranks. But understandably, you know, what these nurses and other health care providers went through during the pandemic. I mean, they were doing, I mean, colossal work, I mean, just mammoth, you know, size, detail and work and commitment. So it's understandable why people would feel so burned out. So is there any kind of remedy? Is there any way to help change their minds since you know, you just paint the picture to lose people with 10 years more experience? I mean, that's going to make a huge impact. How do you change their minds?
 
ALEXANDER: Well, this is a call to action. And we had a panel of experts the other day that generated a lot of ideas. And there is a lot that can be done. For example, use our -- employers can use our data as an initial roadmap, and look at all the reasons that nurses are leaving, what's going on in their workplace, such as violence in the workplace.
 
There's a lack of preparation for new nurses, but and they need to talk to the nurses in their own institution. We need to provide mental health services and support for nurses when they feel burnt out and stressed. We need new models of care, our organization is looking in how we can better regulate and improve the competencies of support workers so nurses don't have to do everything.
 
Legislators can pass the Nurse Licensure Compact. Many nurses need multiple license. That's a huge burden in terms of time and money. And still 10 states have not passed that, so that nurses only need one license to care for their patients across states. We need residency programs to help new nurses make the transition from education into practice. And nurses need instruction on how to deescalate potentially violent situations.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh, that's a huge list. So I mean, it sounds like you're really counting on a lot of entities to help address those things whether it be, you know, the health care facility, hospitals, doctors offices, and you also mentioned legislation on a federal and state level. So it's going to take a consortium, you know, of people and places in which to come together to help address this need. I hear you loud and clear. Maryann Alexander, appreciate it. Thank you so much. I hope things get better for the nursing industry. We need our nurses. We need them.
 
ALEXANDER: We sure do.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, thank you so much.
 <br>[12:43:55]
 
All right still to come, newly released body camera video showing three New Mexico police officers firing their weapons in a fatal shooting after they responded to a call at the wrong home. We'll have details.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Newly released video from an officer involved shooting in New Mexico, shows three police officers firing their weapons at an innocent man outside his home. Farmington police were dispatched to respond to a domestic violence incident. But they went to the wrong address. Fifty-two-year-old Robert Dotson answered the door and was armed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hey, hands up. Shots fired, shots fired.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Dotson died at the scene. Joining me right now is CNN national correspondent Camila Bernal to walk us through this newly released body cam video. Camila?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fred. So this happened on April 6th, it happened at about 11:30 at night. And officers were there as you mentioned responding to a domestic violence incident that was reported. Look, we watched the video. There is now three different videos from the three officers that were there. And they all show this commotion. It's really difficult to see exactly what happened here.
 
You have to slow down the video. Of course you're seeing it there on your screen. It is dark, the officers arrive to the house and they knock on the door no one comes to the door. And of course now we know this was the wrong house. It takes Robert Dotson some time to finally opened the door and when he opens the door, it appears that one of these officers sees that he has a handgun and in one of these videos you hear one of the officers saying that he believed that Dotson rock the gun.
 <br>[12:50:07]
 
And so that is what we believe is the reason why one of the officers or multiple officers fired. At the moment, we do not know exactly who fired the gun and how many times it was fired. It is all under investigation by the New Mexico State Police. And, again, you really have to look at the video slow it down to see him with his handgun when he opens the door. Here is how the chief of police described this video when you slow it down.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF STEVE HEBBE, FARMINGTON POLICE: When you show the slowed down version, you see him opening the door with his left hand in his right hand is the gun. And as he pushes the door open, then he comes together and both hands appeared to grip the weapon and they're pointed at one of the officers.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL: Of course, the chief says there's nothing really you could do. It was a mistake. It was also really difficult to hear the 911 audio. I listened to that man's teenage daughter as she is telling 911 that her father was probably shot, you know, she was confused, the entire family just in tears. And so scared about what was going on that day. And again, police just saying it was a mistake, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: OK, that's all so hard to believe and hard, especially hard for the family to handle. All right, Camila Bernal, thank you so much. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:55:58]
 
WHITFIELD: President Biden is back in the U.S. after a four day tour of Ireland and we saw him relish in returning to his family's ancestral homeland. And it seems the feeling was mutual, as Ireland appeared equally fond of him. CNN Donie O'Sullivan has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARRA MULLIGAN, JOE BIDEN'S FIFTH COUSIN: I don't know sometimes if Joe Biden's Irish are for all American.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: (Speaking Foreign Language).
 
DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): (Foreign language), Gaelic for "I'm at home."
 
BIDEN: Only wish I could stay longer.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Biden may be facing crises, including a major intelligence leak in the United States. But here in Ireland, he's received a hero's welcome.
 
BIDEN: It's incredible.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): The country's weather not dampening President Biden's spirits.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do you think of the weather, Mr. President?
 
BIDEN: It's fine. It's Ireland. It feels wonderful. It feels like I'm coming home.
 
PETER MCGUIGAN, LOUTH, IRELAND RESIDENT: Cupcakes are all bake for him. And it's a big welcome for Joe, isn't it?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): First, the President visited County Louth on Ireland's east coast, where his great, great grandfather immigrated from more than 170 years ago.
 
(on-camera): Why do the Irish love American president so much? What is it about it?
 
MCGUIGAN: America is our second country. During the famine times and the bad times that we had with our neighbors, all our people immigrants went to America. They were welcomed with open arms, as you were yourself, Donie.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): In Ireland, Biden seems to have cousins everywhere.
 
(on-camera): So let me just get this straight. So, your great, great, great --
 
MULLIGAN: Grandfather was Joe Biden's great grandfather's cousin.
 
O'SULLIVAN: Very good.
 
MULLIGAN: I think that's the best --
 
O'SULLIVAN: You like that?
 
MULLIGAN: Oh, yes, yes.
 
O'SULLIVAN: First cousin, second cousin.
 
LAUREN &amp; EMILY BLEWITT, PRESIDENT BIDEN'S 4TH COUSIN. Fourth, I think. O'SULLIVAN: Fourth cousin?
 
L. BLEWITT: Yes, yes.
 
O'SULLIVAN: That's pretty close.
 
L. BLEWITT: Because my dad is third.
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yes.
 
L. BLEWITT: Yes.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): In Ballina, on Ireland's Atlantic coast, we meet two of the President's youngest cousins, Lauren and Emily Blewitt.
 
E. BLEWITT: The town is so excited. It's such a buzz.
 
CHRISTINA FORDE, BALLINA, IRELAND RESIDENT: Welcome home. Welcome. You've been gone too long. Come on in, Joe. And close the door.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voice-over): Locals here say Biden's great, great, great grandfather Edward Blewitt sold bricks for the construction of the town's cathedral in the 19th century. And then he used that money to move to America.
 
(on-camera): So this here is -- would have been the fireplace, basically.
 
ERNIE CAFFREY, BALLINA, IRELAND RESIDENT: That's right, yes.
 
O'SULLIVAN: Wow.
 
(voice-over): More bricks. Ernie Caffrey says this is what remains of Biden's ancestral home here in Ballina. Ernie runs Caffrey's Gallery. In the front window, a Biden portrait.
 
(on-camera): You painted this?
 
HILARY LYONS, BALLINA, IRELAND RESIDENT: Yes. I am friendly with the owner of this premises and I was passing down on Saturday, last Saturday, and was popping in to say hello. I got a notion Saturday afternoon. I said, I'm going to go home and I'm going to do a painting of Joe. So I did.
 
O'SULLIVAN (on-camera): What does this mean to the community, though?
 
MICHAEL CARR, OWNER, PADDY MAC'S: It means a huge thing to Ballina, a huge thing to me. All people have become it for years to see where did he come from, where did he go.
 
O'SULLIVAN: And this speech brings a close to President Biden's trip to Ireland here in Ballina County Mayo, the town where his ancestors met from almost 200 years ago.
 
Donie O'Sullivan, CNN, Mayo, Ireland. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, it's so lovely. Thank you, Donie. And this quick programming note, Eva Longoria is experiencing the food of her childhood in an all new episode of Searching for Mexico.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Speaking of Foreign Language).
 
EVA LONGORIA, "SEARCHING FOR MEXICO" HOST: It may not be a looker but Cabrito is all about the flavor. Oh my God. It's so soft from putting it in the oven for so long and then the grilling has that crispy skin. I think a lot of people may think that goat has a gaming tastes but it doesn't it's very smooth and subtle.
 <br>[13:00:05]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Speaking of Foreign Language).
 
LONGORIA: Also the spices you put on the Cabrito they don't overpower anything.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Speaking of Foreign Language).
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Speaking of Foreign Language).
 
WHITFIELD: All right catch the new episode of "Eva Longoria: Searching for Mexico" tomorrow night at 9:00 p.m. Eastern right here on CNN.