Headline: Anderson Cooper 360 Degrees
Sub-headline: Israel-Hamas Reach Two-Day Extension Of Truce After 69 Hostages Freed Over Four Days; No Americans Among Hostages Released Today; Russian-Israel Hostage Freed In Separate Deal; Three Palestinian College Students In ICU After VT Shooting; Suspect Pleads Not Guilty In Court Today; Muslim And Jewish Advocacy Groups Warn Islamophobic And Antisemitic Incidents Are On The Rise; First Lady Carter Lies In Repose At Carter Center. Aired 8-9p ET

Aired November 27, 2023 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: And tonight, a final farewell to former First Lady Rosalynn Carter. The casket carrying her remains is now at the Carter Center in Atlanta and tomorrow, her husband, 99-year-old former President Jimmy Carter is expected to attend his wife's memorial service.
 
He will be joined by all the living former First Ladies, as well as by President Biden and former President Clinton.
 
Rosalynn Carter died peacefully at her home on Sunday at the age of 96.
 
Our coverage of Rosalynn Carter's memorial service starts tomorrow at noon Eastern.
 
Thanks for joining us, AC 360 starts now.
 <br>[20:00:34]
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN HOST: I'm here in for Anderson, and as to the latest development on a day that saw another 11 hostages held by Hamas since October 7th, the fourth group so far returned safely to Israel, 69 freed over the last four days.
 
This is new video, some of them arriving tonight by helicopter at a hospital in Tel Aviv, where they will be evaluated and treated. And even as they were making their journey back safely today, we learned that the four-day pause in fighting between Israel and Hamas would be extended by another two days and more hostages would be freed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ADM. JOHN KIRBY (RET), COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS AT THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL: Now in order to extend the pause, Hamas has committed to releasing another 20 women and children over the next two days. We would of course hope to see the pause extended further and that will depend upon Hamas continuing to release hostages.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) BERMAN: Again, 11 women and children got out today. You see them here, all taken from a single community kibbutz Nir Oz, 11 out of the 77 who were abducted from there on October 7th. That's according to a statement from the kibbutz.
 
Seventy-seven men, women, and children, 11 free today, the youngest just three years old.
 
Now of the 13 freed yesterday, 10 were from another kibbutz, Kfar Aza, which, like Nir Oz was also the site of a massacre by Hamas gunmen.
 
Saturday, another 13 were released including Noam and Alma Or, 17 and 13 years old. Their father is still in captivity, their mother was murdered October 7th.
 
And for so many of the children so far, that must be the worst part of it, learning that they've lost a parent or both parents, or in the case of every single child released today, learning that their fathers are still in captivity.
 
In a moment, a woman who welcomed back six family members then had to tell them one by one that their father, uncle, grandfather, husband was dead.
 
Let's go first to CNN's Oren Liebermann in Tel Aviv.
 
Oren, what's the current status of the 11 hostages freed today? Where are they tonight?
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: John, just a short time ago, Ichilov Medical Center, not far from where we're standing right now confirmed that all 11 hostages released today, eight children, three women have been admitted to the hospital. We actually saw the helicopters flying up from the Kerem Shalom Crossing where they came into Israel, flying right up the beach around where we're standing right now and towards the hospital behind us here.
 
They went through initial medical checks when they first entered Israel. For the first time in more than seven weeks, they are now at the hospital where they will stay for as long as is needed. We've got some pictures from the hospital earlier showing the lengths they went to, to be ready for these hostages to come in where they will through more comprehensive medical checks and they will start to deal with their physical condition and their mental health condition as well -- John.
 
BERMAN: So what more can you tell us about how the agreement for the extended two-day pause in fighting came together?
 
LIEBERMANN: There was always the possibility out there on the Israeli side, when the government approved this agreement, there was the possibility that for every 10 hostages released, there will be another day in the pause of the fighting. Hamas indicated that as well.
 
But over the course of the past four days, it very much looked like the agreement itself might fall apart. There was a tremendous diplomatic effort to hold it together, especially over the weekend to get it to this point. There was also internal pressure on the Israeli government now that hostages have started coming out of Gaza to keep that process going, to bring all of them home now.
 
So there was the international pressure on both parties, Israel and Hamas to keep this pause going, especially because it allows humanitarian aid to go in. There was the domestic pressure at play as well, and the possibility was always there. It was the countries, as the mediators, and the US who helped it get over the line, to the point where we now have another 48-hour pause in fighting, 20 more Israeli women and children will be released over the course of the next two days, in addition to 60 Palestinian women and children held in Israeli jails.
 
BERMAN: So far, there has only been one American among the hostages released during this pause in fighting so far. Is the Biden administration saying anything about where efforts stand to bring additional Americans home?
 
LIEBERMANN: So you're absolutely right. Only to this point as four- year-old, Abigail been released from Hamas captivity. There are at least two more women that we know of who are American-Israeli who could be released under the terms of the agreement as well as some men who would have to be part of a different agreement.
 
The White House says they are still working on this hour by hour, but they don't have any update on the condition of the other American hostages being held in Gaza and they don't know when they could be released.
 <br>[20:05:10]
 
It is effectively just waiting for the lists to come out every night or the following day and seeing if there are Americans on them, that is a very difficult position to be in, as the US and Israel wait for updates.
 
BERMAN: So, Oren, Israel's Defense Minister said today that the IDF will fight even harder when the fighting resumes, it is clear what that means?
 
LIEBERMANN: So Israeli troops remain in Gaza in the thousands, perhaps even in the tens of thousands. They've simply taken up defensive positions. And from the very beginning, Israel's War Cabinet and others have said, this is still a war. Hamas has said that as well.
 
The moment this pause in fighting is over, the war itself is back on in all of its intensity and all of its horror. Clearly, Hamas and Israel are preparing for those next steps, and Israel's Defense Minister laying out what that will look like.
 
It is worth noting, John, that at the beginning of this agreement here, Israel put out 300 names that could be released. Palestinian women and children, essentially saying, Look, this is the list we could put out if you release enough Israelis. Israel's Prime Minister's Office added 50 women to that list earlier on this evening and that's an interesting dynamic, because they seem to be saying, look, we have more prisoners we could release here. If you keep releasing hostages.
 
The tools are there. The question is, can the diplomatic effort get it to that point? Right now, we're only looking at the next 48 hours for a truce and for a pause in the fighting. Getting it past that may be difficult, but clearly, the international effort, the mediators are trying to make that happen. We'll see if they're able to here.
 
BERMAN: That is an interesting development tonight, Oren Liebermann in Tel Aviv. Thank you Oren, so much.
 
Our next guest, Shaked Haran got six family members back yesterday. Her mother, her sister, a niece, nephew, cousin, and aunt, all taken from Kibbutz Be'eri.
 
Shaked, thanks so much for joining us.
 
We have a photo of you holding your sister's hand after she was released. Can you describe what it was like to see and hug your family members for the first time yesterday?
 
SHAKED HARAN, GOT SIX FAMILY MEMBERS BACK YESTERDAY: It was unbelievable. At first, you know, we are waiting for this moment for almost two months and it was just a surreal moment.
 
We were so excited and so happy. But of course, something is still missing. You know, my brother-in-law is still there. My sister came without her husband and her children without their father, but for now, we were so, so happy to see them and to hug them and to hold them and to just be together.
 
BERMAN: We have video of your family members after the release. How's everyone's health? How are they doing right now?
 
HARAN: Physically, they're doing fine. You know, there are small issues, but they were treated in the hospital. They're not in the best shape, but physically they are okay. Mentally, you know, they've been through a lot, it is not something that goes away once the scenery changes, unfortunately, but they're happy to be back. They're happy to be with us, but there is a long way to go.
 
BERMAN: What have they told you about their time in captivity? And how did they cope?
 
HARAN: There's not much I can share, there was also not much they shared. But mentally, they tried to hold on to the hope that they would be released. It became harder and harder as the days passed by.
 
So I can say that really after meeting them, it has become so much clearer that it is so urgent to get everyone out of there as soon as possible. It's not something that people can hold on to forever and 52 days is already way too much time to try to hold on in these situations.
 
BERMAN: I understand you are nine months pregnant, and that your dream was to have your mother and sister back to be with you in the delivery room. How does it feel now to know that that dream be a reality?
 <br>[20:10:02]
 
HARAN: It feels amazing. It feels amazing. I am really blessed that my family is here and my sister and my mother and I really couldn't imagine the possibility of giving birth without them with me.
 
You know, once they're back, it's such an amazing experience, but it's also -- you meet the reality that they have been through. And so we are both excited and happy and so relieved. And also trying to hold on to each other, to keep each other strong, to keep the faith and the hope that my brother-in-law will come back.
 
And so now I'm still praying that, until I give birth, he is already back here with us, and it will be a full house as much as it can be because we lost our father and uncle and aunt, but we are praying for his return and for all the hostages return.
 
BERMAN: You mentioned your father. Your father was murdered on October 7th, and I am so sorry for your loss and your family's loss. It must have been incredibly painful to tell everyone yesterday, they didn't know. I mean, how are they holding up after hearing that? And what do you want people to know about your father?
 
HARAN: So, it is -- I don't know if it's possible to describe how hard it was to be the bearer of this kind of news. They've been through so much and it was really devastating to be -- for me to be the person to tell them this and it broke them. There was no -- it broke them, my mother and my sister.
 
But at least we had the chance to mourn together, which was something that was deprived of me until yesterday.
 
My father was an amazing, amazing man. And the family for him was the most important thing in the world, and one thing my mother said, she said that the fact that we are here and safe and praying that my brother-in-law will be with us soon is definitely something that he would be proud of.
 
And I tried to think of him and to take power from the man he was and not to be broken by the fact that we lost him.
 
BERMAN: Your father would be so proud of you and the strength that you've shown and may his memory be a blessing.
 
You've been through so much. We're so sorry for your loss. Hug your family tight, please, for us. Shaked Haran, thank you.
 
HARAN: Thank you.
 
BERMAN: Next, despite so much sadness, more of the joy of families reunited. We have some new video to show you just of Hadas Kalderon today as she gets the news that her son and daughter are coming home.
 
[VIDEO CLIP PLAYS]
 
BERMAN: And later in this country, the man now in custody charged with shooting three Palestinian college students in Vermont and the question, was it as the victim's family say, a crime fueled by hate?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:18:14]
 
BERMAN: At the top of the program, we showed you these names, the names and faces of the hostages who have been released over the past four days and we spoke with one woman about what getting six loved ones back means to her even as she mourns the loss of a father murdered on October 7th.
 
Right now though, tempered as it is by sadness, a little more of the joy we had been seeing, and our Gary Tuchman has that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GARY TUCHMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Maayan Zin is about to get her children back. Her daughters, eight-year-old, Ela Elyakim and 15-year-old Dafna Elyakim reunited with their mother after being kidnapped by Hamas terrorists. Their father was murdered on October 7th. But their girls are now back home. One of many incredibly emotional reunions in Israel.
 
Abigail Edan, she turned four years old in captivity in the arms of her aunt, uncle, and grandparents. Her mother was shot and killed by the kidnappers. Her father shielding Abigail was also killed. Abigail tried to get away and was kidnapped. Now, she is home.
 
On the right, Sharon Avigdori joyfully hugging and looking into the eyes of her son after she was released by her kidnappers. She was held hostage with their 12-year-old daughter, Noam, hugging her father, an incredibly emotional reunion where you can feel the relief and joy with this husband and wife, their daughter and son.
 
Then there are the stories. Nine-year-old Emily Hand and 13-year-old Hila Rotem. Two friends who had been together at a sleepover when they were kidnapped.
 
Emily's father had said weeks ago he was informed his daughter was found dead. At the time he told CNN, his daughter's death was a blessing because at least Emily was not in Hamas' hands.
 <br>[20:20:09]
 
Now, they are back together. Emily's father is Tom Hand.
 
TOM HAND, EMILY HAND'S FATHER: Lost a lot of weight, ger face was bloody, but generally doing better than we expected.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): Hila's reunion was with her uncle. Her mother was kidnapped with her and is still being held, Israel accusing Hamas of reneging on the agreement to release mothers and their children together.
 
Hila's uncle talked to Wolf Blitzer.
 
YAIR ROTEM, HILA ROTEM SHOSHANI'S UNCLE: She had to just say goodbye to her mother. Her mother doesn't know what happens with Hila.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): In the Schneider Children's Hospital in Israel, Yoni Asher is reunited with his wife, Doran; his four-year-old daughter Raz and his two-year-old daughter, Aviv. All three of them were kidnapped.
 
(YONI ASHER speaking in foreign language.)
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): He asked, "Did you miss me? Did you think about dad?" His wife says, "All the time."
 
And then there's this celebration with honks, applause, music. Mother, Danielle Aloni, and her five-year-old daughter, Emelia also released after the Hamas rampage. The song playing in the background, "I'm Coming Home."
 
Gary Tuchman, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERMAN: More now on the help these families are getting as they face the future. Some of that coming from our next guest who himself along with his organization got to work immediately in the wake of October 7th first by making contact with families of the hostages, then by creating medical files for each of their loved ones, all while keeping in constant communication with those families over the last seven weeks and still staying in contact with them now, after some of their loved ones have returned home.
 
This has been Dr. Hagai Levine's job as head of the medical team for the hostages and Missing Families Forum.
 
Dr. Levine, first tell me what you've heard from the returning hostages and their families, those who aren't requiring urgent medical attention. How are they and what did they experience?
 
DR. HAGAI LEVINE, HEAD OF THE MEDICAL TEAM FOR THE HOSTAGES AND MISSING FAMILIES FORUM: It depends.
 
Of course, I'm extremely happy to be here in Israel with the families to be treated by multidisciplinary teams, like your show, 360 degrees of all aspects, psychological, medical, nutritional. They have many deficiencies. And you know, it's amazing how strong they are, and we learned from them amazing solidarity.
 
We saw over the last seven weeks, amazing solidarity between the families. Now, we see among the hostages with offering the scarce food to each other with a hostage saying to Hamas, release her first because she is in worse conditions than I am and it is going to be a tough recovery to get back home. BERMAN: Talk to me about Elma Avraham. She was released Saturday and airlifted to the Soroka Medical Center. She's in an ICU and in critical condition. I know her family wants you to talk about her condition. What can you say tonight?
 
LEVINE: So I'm with her family over the last seven weeks. Her son Uri and his brother, Jorge (ph) and sister, Tal went with me together to the Red Cross, and we had a very, you know, emotional meeting at the Red Cross several weeks ago, because they told the Red Cross, listen, if our mother would not get the medication she needs and actually, we bought the medications to the table she will be dying. Please do something now.
 
Unfortunately, this is exactly what happened. At the same time, what we now realize she didn't get the medications, rather simple medications, you know for her thyroid function. She didn't get the medication. So she got deteriorated and deteriorated and deteriorated.
 
When she arrived to Soroka Medical Center, her body temperature was 82 Fahrenheit. The pulse was slow. Her consciousness was not complete. And her body was full of bruises that may have been formed from dragging her around. Like she is a sack of potato, an object, not a human being.
 
She was full with lice and you know, it's just difficult even to describe, so that's something that the family wanted to tell not because it will help Elma. It will not help her, but because they care about the other hostages, the other families.
 <br>[20:25:13]
 
They want the world to listen and understand that if Hamas will continue to deny medical access for the Red Cross team to visit and take care of the hostages, or to release all of them now, people not only die, but will die without dignity, would suffer things that no human being should suffer.
 
And her family showed me, you know, her playing with her grand, grandson seeking hide with him. And you know, she on the 6th of October, she was well treated. She was independent, living alone at her home in the kibbutz, and, you know, abducted from her home so violently and neglected for such a long time. So we don't have time. We know that some of the hostages were injured, some of them were severely injured. We are very worried about all of them.
 
BERMAN: Fifty-one days in, what happens if they don't get that medical attention, the hostages who are still in captivity?
 
LEVINE: Well, some of them are clearly dying, and the condition are poor. We hear now from the other hostages that some of them did not take shower for 50 days and they didn't get the food they need. Elma Avraham came with full of lies. Again, complete neglect.
 
And I don't know, I don't know. I really want to get some good news. We are encouraged by the agreement. We have two more days, 20 more hostages. But you know, this is a torture that you get slowly and they all need to be home now safely.
 
BERMAN: Dr. Hagai Levine, we appreciate you being with us. Thank you so much.
 
LEVINE: Thank you.
 
BERMAN: You've seen the pictures tonight of all the women and children released over the past four days, but there was one man released yesterday by Hamas as well. The story of who he is and why he wasn't part of the broader deal when we continue.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:31:18]
 
BERMAN: If Americans have been notably absent from the hostage released over the last four days, one freed hostage is notable for his presence. He is a Russian national and his release yesterday came as part of a separate deal distinct from the Doha agreement between Moscow and Hamas. This deal that went through was just between Moscow and Hamas.
 
More on that now from CNN's Frederik Pleitgen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): Roni Krivoi pictured in this Hamas video showing the exchange with the Red Cross. Krivoi is also a Russian citizen and his brother thanked the Russian government for making the release happen.
 
RONI KRIVOI (through translator): We see what Russians can do. They helped us, and we believe that they can help others, too.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Roni Krivoi's aunt told Israeli media that he escaped his captors after the house he was kept in was bombed, but that he was apprehended by Hamas again after four days. His release now was not part of the larger prisoner swap agreement between Israel and Hamas. It happened thanks to Moscow's good relations with Hamas leadership, Russian officials say.
 
His release was possible following direct, intensive contacts between our diplomats and Hamas representatives, Russia's ambassador to Israel says. After Hamas's October 7th assault on southern Israel, killing more than 1,200 people and leaving more than 200 in captivity inside Gaza, much of the world condemned Hamas, but not Russian President, Vladimir Putin.
 
Instead, the Kremlin invited a high level Hamas delegation to Moscow for talks. And Putin has ripped into Israel over its military response to Hamas's raid, which has killed and wounded many people across the Gaza Strip. Putin even comparing his invasion of Ukraine to Hamas's war against Israel.
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translation): I understand that this war with Ukraine, death of people, must be shocking. But what about the bloody state coup in Ukraine in 2014, which was followed by the war of the Kyiv regime against their own people in Donbas? Is it not shocking? What about the elimination of civilians in Palestine, in Gaza?
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): For its part, Hamas clearly views Moscow as an ally. Hamas leaders making clear Russian hostages captured on October 7th will get preferential treatment and have good chances of getting released faster.
 
MOUSA ABU MARZOUK, CHIEF DEPUTY OF HAMAS'S POLITICAL BUREAU (through translator): This request from Russia, we treat more positively and attentively than others due to the nature of our relations with Russia.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERMAN: So, Fred, what other motivations could Vladimir Putin have in attacking Israel's military response in Gaza?
 
PLEITGEN: Well, first and foremost, ripping into the United States. But I think one thing that we need to point out, John, is that the Russians have said that the Russians who are still in captivity in Gaza with Hamas, that those are all Russian-Israeli dual citizens.
 
So in that case, it is actually quite beneficial for the Israelis that the Russians do have those good relations with Hamas. However, The Russians have also been extremely critical of Israel's campaign in Gaza, the aerial campaign that the Israelis are conducting, and in that same breath also have ripped into the United States, John.
 
One of the things that Vladimir Putin has said is he believes that the U.S. needs what he calls instability in the Middle East in order to dominate the Middle East, but of course also, as he puts it, to dominate in the entire world. And Vladimir Putin then goes a step further and also likens his own invasion of Ukraine to trying to combat what he calls that domination by the United States.
 <br>[20:35:03]
 
Of course, Putin himself has not been shy to say that he wants nothing less than a new world order, as he puts it, where Russia and China are stronger and the U.S. is weaker, John.
 
BERMAN: He's getting what he wants right now in the Middle East. Frederik Pleitgen, thank you so much.
 
Up next, a shooting in Vermont that wounded three Palestinian students. It is now fueling new fears of rising anti-Muslim and anti- Arab hate in this country and elsewhere. Details plus Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, that's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN: Tonight we are also following a brutal shooting in Vermont that has left three Palestinian college students in an ICU. And local and federal prosecutors investigating whether this is a hate crime. A suspect has been arrested and appeared in court today.
 
CNN's Polo Sandoval has the latest details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAYOR MIRO WEINBERGER, BURLINGTON, VERMONT: Saturday evening, shooting of three young Palestinian college students visiting Burlington on their holiday break was one of the most shocking and disturbing events in this city's history.
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): 48-year-old Jason Eaton was arraigned in Burlington this morning. He pleaded not guilty and is being held without bail.
 <br>[20:40:02]
 
WEINBERGER: Upon knocking on one door, the ATF agents were greeted by a man who stepped out of the hall, out of the door towards them with his palms up at waist height and stated, something to the effect of, I've been waiting for you. The ATF agents said, why's that? And the gentleman said in sum and substance, I would like a lawyer.
 
SANDOVAL (voice-over): The three victims, each 20 years old, are Hisham Awartani, a student at Brown University in Rhode Island who now has a bullet lodged in his spine, Kinnan Abdalhamid, a student at Haverford College in Pennsylvania who was shot in the glute, and Tahseen Ali Ahmad, a student at Trinity College in Connecticut still has a bullet in his chest.
 
They studied together at Ramallah Friends School, a non-profit Quaker school in the occupied West Bank. Police say the students were walking down the street Saturday evening while visiting one of their relatives for Thanksgiving.
 
WEINBERGER: They were speaking in a mixture of English and Arabic which is their want. Two were wearing keffiyehs and they had no knowledge of this individual, had not encountered him before. He stepped off a porch and produced a firearm and began discharging that firearm.
 
SANDOVAL (voice-over): Amid rising reports of targeted violence against Jews and Palestinians since the outbreak of the Israel-Hamas war, the shooting immediately prompted calls it should be considered a hate crime.
 
RICH PRICE, UNCLE OF VERMONT SHOOTING VICTIM HISHAM AWARTANI: I believe the families fear that this was motivated by hate. That these boys were -- these young men were targeted because they were Arabs. That they were wearing keffiyehs. I think that is our fear.
 
SANDOVAL (voice-over): Federal officials investigating whether it was a hate crime in the eyes of the law. Family of the victim say they thought their loved ones would be safe here.
 
RODDY TAMIMI, UNCLE OF VERMONT SHOOTING VICTIM KINNAN ABDALHAMID: Kinnan grew up in the West Bank and we always thought that that could be more of a risk in terms of his safety. And sending him here would be a, you know, the right decision. We feel somehow betrayed in that decision here. And, you know, we're just trying to come to terms with everything.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANDOVAL: And today we learned from Burlington police that they've been able to match the ballistics on the pistol that was recovered from inside of Eaton's apartment, what you see behind me, with the casings that were recovered from the sidewalk itself.
 
So now that prosecutors have that out of the way, the next big question to answer is a possible motive here with three innocent young men in the hospital, John. No question this was a hateful attack. But was this hate inspired? That is a legal question the prosecutors will have to answer and it's not an easy one.
 
BERMAN: Polo Sandoval, thank you so much for that.
 
Some context, the Council on American-Islamic Relations has documented a more than 200 percent increase in requests for help in reports of bias since the Hamas October 7th attack and the Anti-Defamation League has reported a more than 300 percent increase in antisemitic incidents.
 
With me now is Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders. Senator Sanders, thanks so much for being with us. When you first heard about this shooting and learned that it happened in Burlington, where you were mayor, where you've lived for decades, what was your reaction?
 
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): A shock and disbelief. It really is quite unbelievable. And the people of our city are very disturbed by this. And I know that everybody in the state of Vermont is wishing these young men the best in their recovery and hope, you know, they recover fully and as speedily as possible.
 
BERMAN: So, obviously, authorities have not yet publicly assigned a motive. How likely do you think it is that this was a hate crime?
 
SANDERS: Well, there is an investigation going on and you don't want to jump the gun. But I think, you know, when you have three people walking down the street speaking Arabic, you know, I think the presumption is that it may well have been a hate crime, but that's what this investigation is about.
 
And I want to applaud local law enforcement and the federal officials who apprehended a suspect as quickly as they did. We appreciate that.
 
BERMAN: What would you say to Vermont residents who might be scared tonight about political or religious violence in a way that they might not have been before all this?
 
SANDERS: Well, I think -- I have to say that sadly, it's not just Vermont. I think the people of Vermont are shaken by this. No question. But they're all over the country. What we are seeing is a rise in Islamophobia and antisemitism. In fact, just a few weeks ago, I called for a classified briefing from the FBI on just that issue, which we'll be holding next week. You know, it's -- this country has gone through so much in terms of racism and bigotry that we don't want to descend once again into attacking each other because of our religion or where we were born. So I hope the cooler heads prevail.
 <br>[20:45:06]
 
BERMAN: So what do you do about it? What are leaders in Washington of both sides of the aisle do about this?
 
SANDERS: Well, it's not just both sides of the aisle, it's going into the streets and making it clear that in a democratic society, people can have different opinions on matters of great importance, the war or whatever it may be.
 
But violence and hatred and hate crimes are not the answer. In a civilized democratic society, we talk about those issues. We get involved in politics. We fight for our beliefs. You don't go around shooting people.
 
BERMAN: You recently wrote an op-ed for the New York Times. It was entitled, Justice for the Palestinians and Security for Israel." In part you called for a, quote, "significant extended humanitarian pause." What is your reaction been to the pause that has been in place for four days now in the release of the hostages so far?
 
SANDERS: Well, John, I'm delighted that it is taking place. I think everybody is gratified to see children and elderly people returning back to their families and we hope more of that takes place but we should not also forget is that this pause has enabled -- has created the situation where there's going to be a huge amount of humanitarian aid coming into Gaza.
 
And we should be clear about this. Gaza today is a total humanitarian disaster. It's not just that 12,000 people have been killed as horrible as that is. We're talking about 1.5 million people displaced, not enough water, not enough food, not enough medical supplies, not enough fuel. It is a disaster.
 
So right now, what we are beginning to see today, as a matter of fact, I think some 200 trucks came in tomorrow. I am told there'll be 250 trucks for humanitarian aid. That's long needed, and that is going to save lives. So we certainly hope that that continues.
 
BERMAN: So in multiple recent polls, President Biden has lost support among left leaning voters under the age of 35. This is a group that was a huge part of your base during your presidential campaigns in 2016 and 2020. Have you heard criticisms from your supporters about the President's positions on this conflict or other things? And what have you been telling them?
 
SANDERS: Well, look, I think everybody, you know, whether you're 18 or whether you're 80, is horrified by what's going on. We were horrified by Hamas disgusting terrorist attack against Israel and the slaughter of 1300 innocent people. I think we're horrified by Israel's response, which as I mentioned before, has killed 12,000 people.
 
And what the real worry is here, is that some 70 percent of those people are women and children. So I think there's -- people are just totally disgusted about what's going on. And one of the things that I have called for is to say, look, we are friends of Israel, but Israel cannot disregard international law. They cannot kill women and children indiscriminately.
 
And if we're going to give them money, and they need money to defend themselves, what if we're going to give them money? Then they have got to obey international law, and that means, among other things an extended humanitarian pause.
 
It means making sure that we address the crisis in the West Bank, not only in Gaza, where Israeli settlers are killing Palestinians and throwing them off their land. It means that we have to be thinking long term about what the final -- how do we solve this problem.
 
And that is, in my view, a two-state solution, which Netanyahu's right-wing government has not been sympathetic to. But I think they've got to start thinking about that big time if they want American money.
 
BERMAN: Senator Bernie Sanders from Vermont, we appreciate your time tonight. Thank you so much.
 
SANDERS: Thank you, John.
 
BERMAN: Ahead, remembering former First Lady Rosalynn Carter and a preview of memorial services with some of the most important U.S. political names of the past quarter century expected to attend, along with some surprises on the list.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:52:56]
 
BERMAN: At this moment in Atlanta, former First Lady Rosalynn Carter lies in repose at the Jimmy Carter Presidential Library and Museum eight days after she died at the age of 96. This is part of a series of tributes, remembering her life and legacy this week.
 
Tomorrow, President and Dr. Biden, former President Clinton, and every living former First Lady will attend a memorial service in her honor. That does include Melania Trump. And in a beautiful testament to their 77 years of marriage, former President Carter, currently in hospice care, is scheduled to make the journey to attend as well.
 
With me now from Atlanta, Nick Valencia. So Nick, what stood out in today's events?
 
NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, John, it was a gorgeous day. It was very crisp, it was cooled but it was sunny, and it seemed the former first lady because she was a ray of sunshine for everyone that came across her path.
 
She made several stops today. They began in Plains, Georgia and then stop by -- the family motorcade stopped by a nearby medical center in America's where she spent a lot of time as both a patient and a philanthropist. And then earlier this afternoon, her casket arrived here at the Carter Center, a center that she helped found, and she used to say that the center she hoped would bring people hope.
 
And it's today where the public is encouraged to come out until 10:00 this evening to pay their respects and say their final goodbyes to the former First Lady. John?
 
BERMAN: What do we know about tomorrow's ceremony, Nick?
 
VALENCIA: Well, the big headline we found out this morning. It was still uncertain as of this morning, whether or not her husband of 77.5 years would be present at a tribute ceremony tomorrow, a tribute memorial I should say for Rosalynn Carter tomorrow.
 
He is expected to be in attendance, according to his grandson. He will join a wide variety of dignitaries, including the Clintons, the former First Lady Michelle Obama, former First Lady Laura Bush, as well as Melania Trump.
 
And, you know, it's been a steady stream of people here. There continue to be members of the public that show up with their flowers, showing their respects. She died at 96 years old. Just a remarkable life, John. But for those that we speak to who know her and who knew who very well, it just seemed like not enough time, and it's never enough time for those of us who've lost loved ones.
 <br>[20:55:00]
 
It doesn't matter the age or number that's, you know, associated with the person that passes. Rosalynn Carter had an amazing life and leaves behind an amazing legacy. Members of the public encouraging come out to get the respects -- to give the respects to the former first lady. John?
 
BERMAN: Very quickly, Nick, in 20 seconds, do we know who's going to be delivering the major speeches tomorrow?
 
VALENCIA: We don't, but we know in attendance there will likely be members from Ebenezer Baptist Church. There will be the Emory president, who will also be there. Atlanta was a big, you know, they had a lot of ties here. They were, of course, from Plains, Georgia, but their daughter lived here, in fact, a couple of years ago.
 
I ran into the Carters while they were trick or treating with their grandchildren in a nearby neighborhood here in Candler Park. They stopped to take pictures with everyone who ask. Just a wonderful people. John?
 
BERMAN: That is a very Carter story in a very Georgia story. Nick Valencia in Atlanta tonight, thank you so much for being there. We'll be right back
 
VALENCIA: You bet.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BERMAN: It's a big week here at CNN. Wednesday morning, we'll see the release of the second season of Anderson's podcast, All There Is. The very personal podcast, as you might remember, focuses on grief. How to talk about it, how to deal with it, in conversations with very special guests, including President Biden.
 
Again, the first episode is Wednesday morning and it will be available on iTunes, Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts. Also on Wednesday, the premiere of King Charles, the program hosted by Gayle King and Charles Barclay will take a unique look at the day's news as only Gayle and Charles can do. That airs at 10:00 p.m. on Wednesday night.
 
All right. That does it for us tonight. The Source with Kaitlin Collins stars right now.