Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Ukraine: Russia Launches New Round Of Missile Attacks; SpaceX Successfully Launches Falcon Heavy Rocket; Clock Ticking Down To Monday Night Deadline; Massive Manhunt for the Mass Shooter in Cleveland, Texas; First Republic Bank Seized by FDIC and Sold to Highest Bidder; Democrats and Republicans Clash Over Debt Ceiling; Tornado Hits Virginia Coast and Florida; Sudanese Evacuees Flee to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired May 01, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[02:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN HOST:  Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead on "CNN Newsroom," investigators announce a reward for information leading to the arrest of the mass shooting suspect in Texas. Details, plus the husband and father of two victims describes why he chose to run away from the gunfire. 
 
Regulators weigh bids for First Republic as they try to avoid what would be the second biggest bank failure in U.S. history. 
 
Plus, the crisis in Sudan, the first U.S. evacuation ship is expected to arrive at a Saudi Arabian port in the hours ahead. You will hear from those who managed to escape the fighting and what they endured. 
 
Thanks for being with us. Well, a small Texas town is in mourning and on edge after a deadly shooting in which five people were killed. This man lost his wife and nine-year-old son in the shooting. Meanwhile, more than 200 officers from multiple law enforcement agencies are involved in the manhunt for the suspected shooters. 
 
And, there is an $80,000 reward being offered for any information that could lead to his arrest. Authorities have identified the suspect as 38-year-old, Francisco Oropesa, a Mexican national. An FBI official told reporters, Sunday, they had, quote, "zero leads" on the suspect's whereabouts. CNN's Ed Lavandera has the latest. 
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:   While the hunt continues for 38-year-old Francisco Oropesa, the man who's accused of shooting five neighbors on Friday night here in the town of Cleveland, Texas. The husband and father of two of the five victims is detailing to us exactly how the night unfolded. Wilson Garcia says he was at home with a group of friends when they asked, he and two other men, walked over to the home, their neighbor's home, Oropesa, and asked him to stop shooting his weapon so close to their property because their baby was trying to sleep. He says they asked him just to shoot the weapons on the other side of
 
 their property. It was a very tense exchange. Garcia said they had already called authorities and 9-1-1 five times prior to that. And then, 10 to 20 minutes later, that's when Wilson Garcia says that Francisco Oropesa came back to their house, didn't say anything else, and started shooting people. 
 
One of the first to die, he said, was his wife. He says that the man then started going to the house shooting people in other rooms. Oropesa says one of the women told him to get out of the house as quickly as possible, because his wife and son were already dead and that they didn't want to lose him because his two other children shouldn't lose both parents. Horrific details that Wilson Garcia is detailing of those nights. 
 
In the meantime, investigators continue this manhunt. They have been searching for Francisco Oropesa since Friday night when he was able to flee the scene. But at this point, investigators say they have no idea where he might be.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JAMES SMITH, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE, FBI HOUSTON FIELD OFFICE:  Right now, we just don't know. Because if we did, we would have him in custody right now. We do not know where he is. We don't have any tips right now to where he may be. That is why we've come up with this reward. So that, hopefully, somebody out there can call us. I can pretty much guarantee you he's contacted some of his friends. Right now, we're just running at the end. Right now, we have zero leads. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAVANDERA:  In hopes of trying to get information on Francisco Oropesa's whereabouts, the state of Texas and various law enforcement agencies have thrown together money for a reward. It is $80,000 for information that leads to the capture of Oropesa. But as I've said, at this point, investigators say they had lost track of where he was. Saturday, they found his cell phone and some close discarded in this area, but so far, other than that, they have no idea where he might be a at this point. Ed Lavandera, CNN, Cleveland, Texas. 
 
CHURCH:  Officials say tracking dogs had initially picked up the suspect scent, but now authorities don't know if the suspect is still in the area. CNN law enforcement contributor, Steve Moore, says the first 24 hours are critical during a manhunt. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEVE MOORE, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTRIBUTOR:  The first 24 are very important when you've got a fugitive because you can actually time how far they could walk, whether or not they could have gotten to another vehicle.
 <br>[02:05:06]
 
But after 24 hours, it actually does grow a little bit cold. And the concern now is obviously that he needs food, water, transportation, money, and he's obviously somebody who will do anything to get what he wants. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And there was yet another incident of gun violence over the weekend involving American teens. This one happened early Sunday morning in Bay of St. Louis, Mississippi on the Gulf Coast. Authorities arrested 19-year-old Cameron Everest Brand for the deadly shooting at a house party. Police say he is the only suspect in the shooting that left a 16-year-old and an 18-year-old dead and four others injured. Brand is being held without bond. His first court date is scheduled for next month. 
 
Well, the fate of First Republic Bank could be decided before the U.S. markets open for the trading week today. Sources tell CNN that federal regulators held an auction for the ailing bank on Sunday. "The Wall Street Journal" reports JPMorgan Chase and PNC are among the top banks that submitted a bid. Authorities are likely to announce the decision of that auction in the coming hours. CNN's, Matt Egan, has more. 
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER:  U.S. officials and investors are hoping that a white knight comes to the rescue of First Republic Bank. The FDIC held an auction over the weekend trying to entice big banks to acquire this ailing regional bank. That is according to a person familiar with the matter. But we don't know yet the results of that auction, nor which, banks actually placed bids to buy First Republic. 
 
Now, unlike Silicon Valley Bank, which imploded almost out of nowhere last month. First Republic Bank has been really teetering for weeks. Share prices down by 97 percent since early March. It traded above $122 on March 1. Now sitting below $4. And this is not some tiny community bank. It's the 12th largest commercial bank in the U.S. It was sitting on $233 billion of assets, as of the end of March. 
 
That means that if the FDIC ends up seizing control of First Republic, this would be the second biggest bank failure in American history. Now, First Republic is based in San Francisco. It caters to wealthy clients. It has branches in Beverly Hills and Palm Beach, Greenwich, Connecticut, even has a branch right across the street from our offices here in Manhattan.
 
The problem though is that two-thirds of its deposits were uninsured as of the end of last year. And we know uninsured deposits, they fled banks after the Silicon Valley Bank collapse last month. First Republic says that 41 percent of its deposits left the bank in the first quarter alone. That translates to a staggering loss of $72 billion in deposits. And that's despite the influx, the injection, of $30 billion of deposits from big banks just last month. 
 
Now, the question is whether not big banks are going to come to the rescue with an acquisition here. Or whether U.S. officials can stop this banking crisis before it spreads elsewhere. Back to you. 
 
CHURCH:  With the economic doomsday clock ticking towards a potential U.S. Government default, Republicans and Democrats argued some more on Sunday, but didn't make any progress towards resolving the debt ceiling crisis. The republican-controlled House last week passed a bill to enable the U.S. to continue borrowing so it could pay its bills. It includes deep program cuts Republicans say they are critical to curbing excessive spending. 
 
But President Biden has made clear that plan is dead on arrival. That has Republicans accusing him of making no effort to reach a compromise. But Independent Senator Bernie Sanders told CNN on Sunday, Republicans first have to pay for programs Congress already has approved. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT):  The president is right. What we need is a clean debt ceiling bill. You pay your bills and then you can sit down and negotiate what a sensible budget is. I think we can start negotiating tomorrow, but you cannot be holding the American people or the world's economy hostage. What the Republican have got to say is, absolutely. We are going to make sure that we pay our debts. 
 
REP. TOM EMMER (R-MN):  The White House since this Congress began, has had no ideas whatsoever except jacking up taxes and spending even more money. 
 <br>[02:09:59]
 
We got to get this right, Dana. And the Senate, the Schumer Senate, they have no ideas either. Our recommendation is we pass it through the House, take it up in the Senate and pass it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
Joining me now from Irvine, California is Eric Swanson. He is a professor of economics at UC Irvine. Appreciate you being with us. 
 
ERIC SWANSON, PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS, UC IRVINE:  Thank you. 
 
CHURCH:  So, America is once again on the brink of a treasury debt default due to politics. Republicans refusing to raise the debt limit unless they get spending cuts in return. And President Biden refusing to negotiate on those cuts because he says no condition should be attached to raising the debt limit. How dangerous is game of politics? What would be the consequences of a debt defaults on the country and indeed, the world? 
 
SWANSON:  So, Treasury Securities are very, very important security in the U.S. financial markets and in the global financial markets. If there were to be a debt default of some kind, you'd be jeopardizing the value of those securities. You'd be jeopardizing the liquidity of those securities. And that could, basically, if you think of treasury security as sort of the oil that lubricates the financial system. 
 
You basically, if you remove that oil, if you come up that oil in some way. You basically put a stop to the financial system in the U.S., and around the world. So, it would have huge repercussions if, in fact, they were to come to that. CHURCH:  Let's look at what needs to happen to avoid the catastrophic
 
 impacts of a debt default. Will President Biden be forced to negotiate spending cuts proposed by Republicans if they refused to budge? And take the country to the brink of disaster on this, or is there another option that might work to avoid default? 
 
SWANSON:  So, people have floated various gimmicks to avoid or get around the debt ceiling. In fact, the chargers been pursuing some low- level gimmicks for the past several months. And then maybe some other ones they have not used that they could pull out. If they do come to a point where the run out of their standard, it's not clear that Treasury has to default on the government debt. 
 
They could end up halting payments to federal employees, perhaps. Perhaps they halt payments to Medicare. Perhaps the hold payments to social security. So, it doesn't necessarily mean they would default on treasury debt. And, in fact, I think the Treasury Secretary Yellen, and Federal Reserve Chair Powell will do everything they can to prevent defaulting on the treasury debt. They would do that is not so last resort. I don't take that would really ever happen. 
 
CHURCH:  So, what about the economy right now? How is it looking giving all the recent talk of a possible recession. And also, destruction in the banking systems. Trouble, of course, trying to save First Republic Bank.  
 
SWANSON:  So, the economy has been looking, generally, pretty good. I mean, a little bit weaker than at the end of last year. The economy is going a little more slowly. We just got the GDP data out last week, and that's to be expected. The Federal Reserve has been raising interest rates quite a lot. They're deliberately trying to slow down the economy to reduce the price pressures and reduce inflation. 
 
But there's not any sign of a recession at present. The closest thing we had was the bank turmoil last month, as you mentioned. That seems to be largely resolved now. They are working on sort of the tail end of that right now, in First Republic Bank this weekend. But this seem to be a few isolated banks. There doesn't seem to be any systemic problem. And so, the economy seems to be doing generally, okay. Just growing a little more slowly than before. 
 
CHURCH:  And of course, the Federal Reserve is set to meet this week and is expected to raise interest rates by another quarter of a percent in an effort to bring down inflation. What impact will that have on the economy do you think overall and on the sale of First Republic Bank? 
 
SWANSON:  It should have no impact, I mean, the sale of First Republic Bank should be closed, I think, by the end of today or tomorrow it sounds like. So, there will be no impact on that. The quarter of a percentage point, you know, it's relatively small move. They were moving much more than that in the middle and end of last year. 
 
So, we wouldn't expect any big effects from for one more quarter percentage point increase in short term interest rates. It will put just a little bit more pressure on the economy, just a little bit more pressure on inflation. And then, I think, they want to sort of see. I think they want to sort of pause for a minute or slow down for a minute and see what's going to happen from the interest rate increases they've already done in the last nine months or a year. And I think they want to give things a chance to play out and then take it from there, see if they need to go up anymore or if they can hold. 
 
CHURCH:  Eric Swanson, thank you so much for your analysis. Appreciate it. 
 
SWANSON:  Sure, thank you.
 <br>[02:15:00] 
 
CHURCH:  Parts of the south and eastern United States will be assessing the damage from tornadoes in the hours ahead. The National Weather Service confirms that one hit the coastal city of Virginia Beach Sunday evening. The man who shot this video said he was eating at a restaurant when sirens went off. He went outside to see what was going on and then warned people inside. 
 
Law enforcement and the fire department are now helping residents impacted by the storm damage. Other crews are responding to reports of gas leaks. 
 
And take a look at this video. It's the moment an EF-2 tornado touched down in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. The winds were so powerful they even flipped a car multiple times on the highway. And you can also see the funnel cloud and debris flying through the air. So far though, no serious injuries have been reported. Incredible. 
 
Well, it wasn't weather, but overcrowding, that caused this roof collapsed near the campus of Ohio State University, sending more than a dozen people to the hospital. Fire officials say the roof crashed down on the porch below during a house party. Witnesses described as many as 45 people on top of the structure when it collapsed. Some people were pinned under the debris, but were pulled to safety. And there's much more to come here on CNN including the latest on the conflict in Sudan. A doctor's group warns the country could be headed for an environmental catastrophe. We have a live report on that. 
 
Plus, another convoy of Americans has arrived to Port Sudan. CNN is on the ground in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, where many of these evacuees are headed next. Do stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:20:00]
 
CHURCH:  Amid the ongoing conflict in Sudan, a second group of American evacuations has arrived in Port Sudan. The convoy, organized by the U.S. government traveled over land from Khartoum. Officials say the U.S. has facilitated the departure of nearly 1,000 Americans from the country. Most will travel from Port Sudan to Jeddah in Saudi Arabia where thousands of Sudanese and foreign nationals have fled amid the chaos. CNN correspondent Larry Madowo is there in Jeddah over the past few
 
 days. He has traveled on a Saudi ship to Port Sudan and back. We're monitoring evacuation efforts and listening to the stories of those trying to escape the fighting. Here is his report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Two a.m. and they are finally getting out of Sudan after many anxious days. Saudi soldiers checked documents and let them through, a nightmare almost over. 
 
(On camera):  Thousands of people have made their over 500-mile journey from the capital Khartoum to here in Port Sudan. One person told us it took them 36 hours, but finally on a boat, and eventually to a ship to Jeddah. A sad final goodbye to Sudan, victims of the stormy waters and Africa's third lightest nation. 
 
HAMZA NAVID, PAKISTANI EVACUEE:  It's very hard to me and -- very hard and very painful for me because this is like a second home, my home. 
 
MADOWO (voice-over):  CNN joined Saudi forces on an evacuation voyage from Jeddah to Port Sudan and back, bringing more people one step closer to safe shores. 
 
But the demand is high and the military ship can only take so many people at a time. Our round trip was more than 24 hours but brought back only 52 people across the Red Sea. Sudanese-American businessman Adi Bashir can finally sleep undisturbed for the first time in two weeks. He says his car dealership in Khartoum was trashed, burned, and some vehicles stolen. So, he took the risky drive the Port Sudan. 
 
ADI BASHIR, SUDANESE-AMERICAN EVACUEE:  A lot of human body, dead body on the street. 
 
MADOWO (on camera):  You say you were detained by men in Rapid Support Forces uniform after you told them you're a U.S. citizen. 
 
BASHIR:  Maybe you are U.S. Citizen, you are spy. I believe they want to be like a human shield because there were 13 ahead of me. 
 
MADOWO (voice-over):  As more people escape from Sudan, another cease- fire was broken over the weekend, with fighting in the country entering a third week. The Saudi port city of Jeddah has become the main landing point for thousands fleeing the conflict. The Saudis are throwing everything at this rescue operation. 
 
TURKI AL-MALKI, ROYAL SAUDI AIR FORCE:  The assets, the capability, the military civilian in Saudi is taking the civilians from Sudan. So, as long as it's safe we will keep doing our role. 
 
MADOWO (voice-over):  This large commercial ship brought nearly 2,000 evacuees from Port Sudan. One of the largest arrivals in Jeddah so far. Hanadi Ahmed and her Sudanese-American family were among those on the vessel received by U.S. embassy staff. They are relieved to be safe, but heartbroken for those who couldn't get out. HANADI AHMED, SUDANESE-AMERICAN EVACUEE:  Very bad (inaudible). It's
 
 very bad because all my family is there. My mom, my dad and (inaudible).
 
MADOWO (on camera):  You are scared for them.  
 
AHMED:  Yeah. 
 
MADOWO:  I am so sorry. 
 
AHMED: (Inaudible).
 
MADOWO (voice-over):  A few lucky dual nationals and foreigners can leave, but most Sudanese people are trapped in a deadly conflict with no end in sight. Larry Madowo, CNN, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Sudan's army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces have agreed to yet another cease-fire. The sixth since the conflict began. But sporadic fighting has continued throughout all the cease-fires. And Sudanese doctors are warning the dead bodies left in the streets are creating an environmental catastrophe. 
 
They say shortages of food, water, and medicine are also putting the country at risk for a humanitarian crisis. 
 <br>[02:24:58]
 
So, let's bring in CNN senior international correspondent, David McKenzie. He joins us live from Johannesburg in South Africa. So, David, what is the latest on the fighting across Sudan, of course, this worsening humanitarian crisis for the country? 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, that cease-fire has become, I don't want to say ridiculous, but it certainly is problematic. That this is the sixth cease-fire that has been agreed on by both sides and yet these are the kind of sounds that are waking up the residents of Khartoum and other parts of the city, ongoing gunfire. We heard from eyewitnesses on the ground in Khartoum there has been heavy fighting over the weekend until today, both during the cease-fire.
 
So, it really is, at this point, no particular sign of a real cease- fire, though there have been some calmer moments during this conflict. Now, you have had that terrible situation of the Sudan Doctors Union saying that there are bodies lining the streets. There haven't been any public services. The garbage is filling up the streets and leading to a very dangerous situation and a humanitarian catastrophe. 
 
Lack of food, lack of water, lack of medicine, this is all facing doctors another tries to help people in these cities ravaged by fighting. Some more positive news, the International Committee for the Red Cross managed to get at least eight tons of vital aid supplies into the country in Port Sudan. That would be another matter getting it to those who need it most. And you've had people streaming over the border into Egypt. You saw
 
 Larry their reporting of people coming to Saudi Arabia from port Sudan. And of course, in Darfur, something that we haven't focused on as much. In the west of the country, there has been continued fighting and insecurity and people have been fleeing on foot, largely, to the border with Chad. Here are some voices of those refugees who are in terrible conditions. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOUSSEYNA MOHAMED ARABI, REFUGGE FROM SUDAN (through translation): They came and attacked our village. And when some of us wanted to get out of their houses, they killed them. 
 
OULMA ARABI, REFUGGE FROM SUDAN (through translation):  It all started around 1, 2, and 3 a.m. We took refuge at the local police station. They told us we cannot stay because the fighting had started. I called my children and told them to take my grandchildren and leave. And then we fled on foot. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKENZIE:  The U.N. Secretary General has dispatched a very senior official of the U.N. to try and mediate some kind of improvement in the situation. And there has been calls, of course, for humanitarian corridors to allow people out and to allow aid in. But so far, the aid coming in is very minimal indeed. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH:  Yeah. It is a dire situation. David McKenzie joining us live from Johannesburg. Many thanks.
 
And still to come, the people of Uman in Ukraine say goodbye to the ones they lost when a Russian missile slammed into an apartment building. We will have a report from the scene. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:31:21]
 
CHURCH: We are following developments in Ukraine where officials say Russia has launched a new round of missile and drone attacks. Several regions in the East were targeted, including Dnipropetrovsk where more than two dozen people have been injured, including three children. A top Ukrainian commander says 15 of 18 cruise missiles fired by Russia were intercepted.
 
And a Ukrainian official in Kyiv says the country's air defense forces destroyed Russian missiles in the airspace above the capital.
 
Funerals were held in the Ukrainian city of Uman barely a day after a missile strike killed 25 people in an apartment building.
 
The family and residents said farewell to a brother and sister who died in that attack.
 
Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the government will do everything it can to hold accountable the people responsible for killing innocent civilians.
 
CNN's Nic Robertson spoke with residents of the community who were paying their respects.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): In the shadow of death, there is love. Floral tributes and toys for victims of Russia strike in Uman Friday. Ania (ph), 15 years old is paying respects to her near neighbors.
 
So many innocent children died, she says I'm so sorry. They're not alive anymore.
 
More than a day after the apartments destroyed, recovery winding down. 25 dead, six of them children. Victoria (ph) points to where her father lived.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): This one with a with a blue wall here?
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): She lists all the neighbors who are now dead. On the ninth floor, a grandma, her daughter and two great grandchildren. On the eighth floor a father and son. On the seventh floor, a mother and daughter, my best friend. And on the sixth floor, a young couple both 30.
 
Her father survived. It was a miracle, he says. They rescued me with a ladder and people gave me clothes.
 
Victoria shows us documents a letter to her now dead friend. The photo of another neighbor. She tells us she found them blowing in the wind. They're so important, she says.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): The recovery is painstakingly slow. The wait for answers about the missing just as painful. But in all the grief there is humanity. And there is anger.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): In a nearby school, neighbors sought clothes, a gift for survivors who lost everything.
 
NATALIE ALEPIKHOVA, VOLUNTEER: We saw all this family of the children, they were crying and I don't know. We just felt that something we need to do to help them.
 
We feel some hate for our Russian neighbors. If we can call him like that. But most we are focused on helping, just only helping.
 
ROBERTSON: Police already documenting the scale of the loss. Boris Bov (ph) telling them his vehicle destroyed.
 
It's not what's been destroyed that matters, he tells us. It's the lost lives. We sent photos of the destruction to our distant relatives in Russia so they can see what the army is doing. They didn't reply, he says.
 <br>[02:35:07] All around, life is being put back in some sort of order. The broken patched up, but ask anyone about repairing relations with Russia.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): What do you think about Russia now?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Animals.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Imagine that for the next generation. Russia's attack, a life shaping memory.
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, Uman, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Still ahead. China's made a holiday travel is expected to surpass pre-pandemic levels. We will head to Hong Kong for a live update.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: It's the start of the May Day holiday in China and travel this year is expected to surpass pre pandemic levels. For more, let's go to CNN's Kristie Lu Stout who joins me live from Hong Kong. Good to see you, Kristie. So, more than 240 million travelers expected across China during this May Day holiday. What is this signal and how is it likely to play out?
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. This is massive, Rosemary. This is China's first May Day golden week holiday after the COVID-19 pandemic. And tourism is surging in Shanghai. Tourism authorities there say that the city has received over three million visits from tourists on Saturday. The first day of this five-day long holiday period. And in Beijing, I'm going to show you this footage.
 
Massive crowds have descended upon popular destinations including the Great Wall of China. In fact, on Sunday, more than 14,000 people visited the Mutianyu section of the wall, which is located just north of Beijing. And you see throngs of visitors there are walking the wall, they're at the entrance. Quite a number of them waiting to queue for the cable cars that they have available the Great Wall of China.
 <br>[02:40:03]
 
And if you want tickets to the Badaling portion of the Great Wall, good luck, because tickets are sold out for May the 1st and May the 2nd. And meanwhile, in Macau, we have this footage to share with you. In Macau, hundreds of thousands of Chinese tourists are crowding into the world's biggest gambling and gaming hub. This is an area known for its restaurants. It's known for its shopping areas, its glitzy casinos as well.
 
And this tourist surge is coming after those COVID-19 restrictions were lifted in January opening the door wide to visitors for the first time in more than three years. And if you talk to business owners and talk to tourists in Macau, especially the buzz is back.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BECKY ZHANG, SHOP OWNER (through translator): Now the customers flow has recovered to around 60 to 70 percent of pre pandemic levels. So, we are very busy. Compared to during the pandemic, it's much more fulfilling and there's less worry.
 
ALA ZHANG, TOURIST (through translator): To be honest, I feel that the vitality of the pre-pandemic period has really been restored with the crowds of people and bustling atmosphere. I haven't seen this for a long time.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
STOUT: That many places across China have seen a record number of passenger trips by air and by rail. That railway stations across the country are crammed with domestic travelers. And according to state media, over 240 million people will be traveling during this five-day holiday period. Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: Wow. That is close quarters there. Kristie Lu Stout joining us from Hong Kong. Many thanks.
 
And I'm Rosemary Church. For our international viewers, World Sport is next. And for those of you here in North America, I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment. Just stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:33]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- six, five, four, three, two, one. It is full power and --
 
CHURCH: After several delays due to weather and technical issues, SpaceX was finally able to launch its Falcon Heavy rocket from Florida's Kennedy Space Center on Sunday, its sixth launch ever. It's carrying three satellites into orbit. The main payload is ViaSat-3 Americas weighing 14,000 pounds. SpaceX says it's the world's highest capacity satellite and the largest all electric satellite ever launched.
 
Well, the clock is ticking in Hollywood towards a possible writer's strike. The Writers Guild of America and producers have until Monday night to reach a deal. If they can't agree, the people who write those T.V. and movie scripts could walk out on Tuesday. CNN Entertainment Reporter Chloe Melas has the latest now from New York.
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Some of your favorite T.V. shows and movies might be put on hiatus indefinitely. If the Writers Guild cannot come to an agreement by the end of day Monday. Now the last time we saw a writer strike was back in 2007, 2008. And it was for 100 days. Some T.V. shows were canceled. You saw picketing and peaceful protesting and it cost the California economy upwards of $2 billion.
 
So, it's going to be interesting to see what happens. Everyone says that they want to come to an agreement. You know, there almost was a strike back in 2017. But that was avoided. You know, you have seen writers take to social media saying that, listen, with the age of streaming, it has made it much more competitive and harder to make a living as a writer. Back in the day, you would see T.V. shows maybe 20 episodes, 22 episodes.
 
Now it's more traditional to see six episodes seasons, eight episodes seasons. And so, writers, some of them are saying that they're taking second jobs and that it's hard to put food on the table for their families or pay the bills. So, they are asking for increased wages. And you're seeing a lot of stars come out on social media and publicly supporting the Writers Guild. So, we're going to see what happens and it's coming down to the wire. And, you know, we all hope that they can come to an agreement. Back to you.
 
CHURCH: In the hours ahead and attorney for Donald Trump is set to continue his cross examination of E. Jean Carroll. The woman suing the former president for battery and defamation in a civil trial. Carroll has accused Trump of sexually assaulting her in a department store dressing room in the 1990s. On the witness stack last week, she pushed back as Trump's attorney questioned why Carol did not get the attention of others in the store at the time and about the details of her allegations.
 
Legal experts are weighing in on how Trump's attorney is doing in court.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHAN WU, DEFENSE ATTORNEY: I don't think it's going that well. For him I used to prosecute sex crimes and it's a delicate balancing act when you have to confront a complainant that way. I expect more of the same. His style is pretty blustery. And maybe he's playing for his client, Donald Trump. Part of the problem for him is he's really raising these 1940s types of notions that unless a rape victim fights and screams, then they're basically not being sexually assaulted. 
 
He also has a little problem where he can't make up his mind. Is he really trying to argue that she consented which she's saying it didn't happen versus she's making it up. Arguments like you didn't scream enough or that you were laughing because she said she laughed to try and keep Trump off of her. That goes to whether you are consenting, not when they're just making the whole thing up.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Carroll has testified that she was afraid of Trump at the time and was worried he would retaliate. She says she only felt comfortable telling her story when other women began speaking up during the MeToo movement.
 
U.S. states that border Mexico are bracing for a new potential super surge of migrants. That's because the federal government's Title 42 was expiring just 10 days from now. It enabled the U.S. to quickly expel migrants due to the COVID pandemic. But now that the Biden administration has officially declare that health emergency over. [02:50:04]
 
Cities on the border are anticipating a huge influx of immigrants.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OSCAR LEESER, MAYOR OF EL PASO, TEXAS: We're getting prepared now for what we call the unknown. And the unknown, it's what will happen after May 11th. Title 42 will be lifted after May 11th. And there's a lot of -- as you've seen, we're starting to pick up some momentum as asylum seekers are around the streets of downtown El Paso and other areas of our community.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
The mayor of El Paso, Texas says he plans to declare a state of emergency Monday largely to prepare for public housing needs if there's a migrant surge.
 
Meanwhile, the Biden administration is making clear that the border will not be wide open and regular border rules will be enforced.
 
Meantime, Chicago's mayor is urging Texas Governor Greg Abbott to stop what she calls the inhumane and dangerous action of busing migrants to her city. Lori Lightfoot sent Abbott a letter stating in part, your lack of confederation or coordination in an attempt to cause chaos and score political points has resulted in a critical tipping point in our ability to receive individuals and families in a safe, orderly and dignified way.
 
We simply have no more shelters, spaces or resources to accommodate an increase of individuals at this level with little coordination or care. That does not pose a risk to them or others. Well, CNN has reached out to Governor Abbott's office for a response.
 
Hundreds of California students are using animation to bring awareness to the fight for social justice. The students walked the red carpet after completing the course that asked them to reflect not on what they want to be when they grow up but what they want to change. CNN's Camila Bernal has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The day begins for these fifth graders with the usual subjects. Math, science, reading and even P.E. Those may appear easy in comparison to talking about gun violence, global warming, bullying, racism.
 
CHRISTIAN LOPEZ, 5TH GRADE STUDENT: I chose racism because for me racism is something really -- something that I see often and something that happens and I feel like all people should be treated the same way, not just because they're different. Because inside, we're all the same.
 
BERNAL: Christian Lopez is just one of the more than 500 5th grade students tackling these issues at the National School District just outside of San Diego.
 
The students choose a topic.
 
AXEL VIVEORS, 5TH GRADE STUDENT: They like world hunger, I feel bad, I really feel bad about because they don't have the life I have. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We can donate to help him get food and fresh water.
 
BERNAL: And then use animation.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you think guns should be allowed? I don't.
 
BERNAL: To explain their thoughts.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Immigration is a problem for everyone. They separate individuals from another. That's a form of injustice.
 
SHARMILA KRAFT, ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NATIONAL SCHOOL DISTRICT: If these are the issues, these are the components that these young people will face as they become adult, then I believe that it is our responsibility to support them in learning how to maneuver some of the nuances.
 
BERNAL: But maneuvering wasn't always easy according to animator David Heredia who created this five-week program,
 
DAVID HEREDIA, FOUNDER, HERCES OF COLOR: It makes people uncomfortable when you put them in a situation to talk about something that is not their lived experience. And because of that, I think it's unfair to put a muzzle on a child who wants to express what they're feeling.
 
BERNAL: So instead, you allow them to talk through their art.
 
LOPEZ: Just because they're different, it doesn't mean that you have to be rude or to like not to be nice to them, because it's really hurtful for those people.
 
BERNAL: They found ways to help solve or highlight the issues.
 
LOPEZ: No matter what color we are, we all are human.
 
BERNAL: And then, they got to feel like celebrities as they share their animations with the world.
 
HEREDIA: It allows us to actually stop and listen to what's going on in the world of a child and have them offer a potential solution to that problem.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When you're coming to someone, they're going to be kind to someone else or you, you should always be kind.
 
BERNAL: The students feel heard and say they will continue to explore these social justice issues.
 
LOPEZ: We can still keep working on and progress to make it better.
 
Camila Bernal, CNN National City, California.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: The NFL draft is a time where dreams become reality.
 <br>[02:55:00]
 
And that was certainly the case when Kansas State running back Deuce Vaughn was picked. He was drafted by the Dallas Cowboys on Saturday which happens to be where his father works as a scout. When the team decided to take him, dad got to make the call.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS VAUGHN, FATHER OF DEUCE VAUGHN: You want to come to work with me next week?
 
DEUCE VAUGHN, AMERICAN FOOTBALL RUNNING BACK, DALLAS COWBOYS: I wouldn't mind that.
 
JERRY JONES, OWNER, DALLAS COWBOYS: There's just something magical about this moment that may be bigger than we even realize here talking to you on the phone. But you is now a Dallas Cowboy. Your daddy just handed the card in. Right here. He's got it on him. Congratulations.
 
CHURCH: In the NBA Playoffs, the defending champion Golden State Warriors are staying alive. Thanks to a record-breaking performance by their star Steph Curry. He scored 50 points in Sunday's game set matchup against the Sacramento Kings. The most points ever in a game seven in NBA history. And the Warriors cruised to a 120 to 100 victory to advance to the second round. They will take on LeBron James and the L.A. Lakers next with game one Tuesday in San Francisco.
 
And in the Eastern Conference Semifinals, the Miami Heat rally for a 108 to 101 game one victory over the Knicks in New York. They will play game two on Tuesday.
 
Well, how do you celebrate if you're a musical legend turning 90? For Willie Nelson, the answer was obvious. A duet with Snoop Dogg.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(VIDEO IS SHOWN OF WILLIE NELSON AND SNOOP DOGG SINGING AT WILLIE'S 90TH BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And that is the dynamic duo over the weekend performing at the Hollywood Bowl. It was part of a two-day festival with an all-star group of friends and musicians to honor the country music legend. Well done.
 
Thanks so much for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. I will be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment. Hope you can stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) [03:00:00]