Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Biden, Trump Campaigns Plagued By Legal Troubles; Trump Vows To Appeal Gag Order In Federal Election Case; White House Is Not Commenting On New Hunter Biden Tax Charges; Hunter Biden Faces Nine Charges Including Tax Charges; U.S. Vetoes U.N. Resolution Calling For Immediate Ceasefire; U.S. Economy Added 199,000 Jobs In November. Aired 6-7a ET

Aired December 09, 2023 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:00:47]
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning, everyone and welcome to CNN this morning. It is Saturday, December 9. I'm Amara Walker.
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Victor Blackwell. Thank you for joining us this morning. Thank you for joining us this morning. Because --
 
WALKER: It is my birthday.
 
BLACKWELL: Yes, happy belated.
 
WALKER: And it was Thanksgiving. 
 
BLACKWELL: Yes. It's been a couple of weeks. Glad to have you back.
 
WALKER: And also -- well, I'm so happy to be back.
 
BLACKWELL: All right. I'm glad to get that out.
 
WALKER: Good to see you.
 
BLACKWELL: All right. Here's what we're watching for you. A Federal Appeals Court has upheld the gag order in former President Trump's election subversion case who Trump can and cannot talk or post about and how the former President is responding to the ruling.
 
WALKER: Hunter Biden is facing new criminal charges in his federal tax case. The legal jeopardy he's now in and what the White House is saying --
 
BLACKWELL: It's -- it was an emotional day for victims and families who spoke during the sentencing of convicted murderer Ethan Crumbley.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
MOLLY DARNELL, SHOOTING VICTIM: I came within your line of sight. You intended to kill me, someone you didn't even know. (END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BLACKWELL: The sentence and the legal troubles his parents now face.
 
WALKER: 30 million people across several states are facing the threat of severe storms today the potential impact and major cities we are watching through the weekend.
 
BLACKWELL: And one of the biggest rivalries in college football kicks off today. We're live at the 124th Army-Navy game on CNN this morning.
 
WALKER: We begin with both leading Presidential campaigns being forced to deal with legal issues in the run-up to the first primaries of the 2024 election cycle. President Biden is in Los Angeles today campaigning for the first time since his son Hunter was charged with new counts of Federal tax evasion. Hunter Biden is accused of a four- year tax evasion scheme and spending millions of dollars on things like drugs, escorts, and exotic cars.
 
BLACKWELL: Former President Trump is dealing with his own legal charges. On Friday, a Federal Appeals Court ruled the gag order barring Trump from attacking certain witnesses and prosecutors will largely remain in place and Trump immediately responded. He vowed to keep up the fight to get that gag order removed. 
 
Separately, Trump is expected to be back in court Monday to testify again in New York civil fraud case against him. CNN Senior Justice Correspondent Evan Perez has more.
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Victor and Amera, an appeals court has largely upheld the gag order against former President Donald Trump in the Federal election subversion case saying he can be barred from making certain comments about witnesses, as well as the prosecutors, and court staff, and their family members. Now Trump immediately vowed to appeal the ruling all the way to the Supreme Court calling it a violation of his First Amendment rights. 
 
Now in the ruling, the three-judge panel from the D.C. Appeals Court said that they didn't take this step lightly recognizing Donald Trump's status as a former President and as the candidate for -- for President. And they said Mr. Trump's documented pattern of speech and its demonstrated real-time, real-world consequences pose a significant and imminent threat to the functioning of the criminal trial process in this case. The Judges went on to say that Trump is a criminal defendant like any other and quote, "he must stand trial in a courtroom under the same procedures that govern all other criminal defendants. That is what the rule of law means." 
 
Now the ruling Friday also pushed back on the former President's efforts to try to delay this trial, which is scheduled to go on in March. The -- the former President calls the prosecutions against him election interference. But the Judges said that to allow Trump to delay the case would be quote, "uncounterproductive, create perverse incentives, and unreasonably burden the judicial process." Victor, Amara. BLACKWELL: Evan, thank you so much. President Biden is trying to keep the focus on his campaign and his economic record and not his son's legal troubles.
 
WALKER: Speaking in Las Vegas Friday, Biden touted his progress and infrastructure reforms while tarnishing Trump's inability to accomplish what he promised when he was President. CNN White House Reporter Camila DeChalus joining us now. Hi Camila. So what has been the White House's response to Hunter Biden's latest charges?
 <br>[06:05:07]
 
CAMILLA DECHALUS, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: At this time, the White House says they will not comment on the additional charges filed against Hunter Biden at this time. But yesterday, White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre have this to say about Biden's continued support for his son. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The President has said this before and he will continue to say which is that he loves his son and supports him as he continues to rebuild his life. But I'm going to be really careful and not comment on this. I refer you to Department of Justice, or my colleagues at the White House Counsel. But that's what I'm going to -- I'm not going to go beyond tell -- telling you all what the President has said over and over again. He's proud of his son."
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
DECHALUS: Now, what's also important to know is that President Biden has also appeared to be standing up for his son a few days ago. Reporters asked him about allegations Republicans have made saying they alleging that Biden has met several times with Hunter Biden business associates and he called them a bunch of lies. But the reality of the bigger situation out here is that Biden is facing several political challenges as he runs for reelection. And Hunter Biden's latest additional charges filed against him is going to become another obstacle Biden will have to face as he runs for reelection.
 
WALKER: All right, Camila DeChalus, thank you very much. And joining me now to discuss all this is CNN Legal Analyst and Criminal Defense Attorney Joey Jackson. Joey, great to see you as always. 
 
As you know, Joey, this investigation into Hunter Biden has been going on for -- for many years. I'm not aware that there's new evidence. How does Hunter Biden's legal issues go from a potential plea deal with no jail time to now you know, up to 40 some years in prison based on these tax and gun charges?
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Yes. Amara, good morning to you. I think the simple answer is the climate of the times. So the reality is, as you noted, there was a plea deal in place as it related to gun charges, his possession of a weapon during his addiction, right, which is impermissible. But this newest and latest version related also to the tax charges, tax charges emanating from a failure to pay $1.4 million in collective years, 2016, '17, '18, and '19. And so you're in Court several months ago, and everything was in place, and there was a plea deal ready to be had for misdemeanor charges, which means that you face less than a year. They're insignificant. But baboon, it was blown up by the Judge, because there was no promise by prosecutors as to whether that would be the end all and be all. 
 
And defense attorney said, hey, wait a minute, I thought this collectively dealt with all of Hunter Biden's problems and so here we are. And I think we're here because Republicans have said, hey, listen, you know what, you're treating him favorably. We had whistleblowers, Amara, as you could recall from the IRS saying that FBI agents and Justice Department officials were intervening. And so I guess, Jack, Mr. Weiss, the Special Counsel involved in this investigation said, you know what, let's handle it this way. And so we're worlds apart from where we were before. And now, of course, Hunter Biden faces 17 years, not that he'll ever get that. I think there'll be a resolution in connection with this new indictment in felony related and nine counts of tax charges and it's the system gone mad and so we're in a different universe right now.
 
WALKER: So you think that special counsel David Weiss is -- overcorrecting then? And I -- I want to pull that full screen up again of Abbe Lowell, the defense attorney for Hunter Biden, and his comments, I mean, basically saying that this was politically motivated. And if his last name was not Biden, he would not have been charged. Does his -- does his lawyer have a point?
 
JACKSON: So I think so and, you know, I think that a number of officials also think so, including one of our former Attorney Generals, Mr. Holder who has indicated as much. The reality is, is that these are taxes that were paid two years ago. Why am I saying that? Yes, I'm a defense attorney. But I'm not saying it in defense. I'm saying it in defense of our system of justice. We have to have a system that operates fairly, that has meaning and basis and that applies equally and evenly to all. If the event of -- if the whole objective of the justice system is to get and mete out justice if taxes were paid already. 
 
Well, the reality is he should have paid them when he should have. There should have been no lies or anything else. But there are programs aplenty for defendants who have not paid taxes. There are tax problems and issues, Amara, that people have that are handled civilly meaning not only civilly as in people collectively getting along. But civilly relating to not in the criminal context. And so I just think at the end of the day there has to be some resolution that deals with fairness and justice and not just politics because you're Biden or Trump or anybody else.
 <br>[06:10:12]
 
WALKER: Yes. And people are watching this and you know, suddenly lose their faith in the justice system. Moving on to Trump's legal battles now, Joey, and on Friday, the appeals court, the three-judge panel largely upheld this gag order from his Federal election, subversion case. Tell me about this ruling because it does allow for him at least to criticize Jack Smith among a few other things. But do you see this as a big blow to Trump?
 
JACKSON: So -- so I do. Here's the reality. The reality is, is that the Court has to balance considerations and factors. Yes, there's a strong imperative for First Amendment rights, particularly during a campaign. And you should be able, right, to have your political speech and state your peace in terms of what your message and theme, and narrative is. At the same time, you are a criminal defendant in a case. We have a justice system and that has to work. People in the justice system have to be protected. Jack Smith, public figure court said hey, rip him apart all you like, call him a thug, a gangster, whatever you do. But stay away from relatives of attorneys, stay away from court staff. Let's not get violence in connection, potential violence in things you say. 
 
What you say matters. People could be harmed and people could be affected, right? And so you want to have a Court as they did strike a balance as it relates to that. Also, in terms of witnesses, right, you cannot go after witnesses if it relates to them involved in your case. But you can generally talk about Mike Pence, talk about the other former -- former Attorney General, of course, Mr. Barr. But you just have to be careful. So this is about a balancing act that's going to protect I think, people against violence, which is essential in our criminal justice system. 
 
WALKER: And Joey Jackson, appreciate you. Thanks. 
 
BLACKWELL: Still to come, life without parole. The Oxford Michigan school shooter receives the toughest sentence possible after killing four students in 2021. Plus Nikki Haley looks to build her momentum on the trail in Iowa how well she says she needs to finish in the caucuses to call it a success. And the Texas Supreme Court temporarily blocks a woman with a fatal fetal diagnosis from getting an emergency abortion. The latest on the contentious Court battle ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:16:53]
 
BLACKWELL: Ethan Crumbley was 15 years old when he killed four schoolmates at Oxford High School in Michigan in 2021. Well, now he's the youngest person in the country to receive a life sentence.
 
WALKER: Prior to the sentencing the Judge listened to victim impact statements from parents and siblings of those victims along with students and teachers who survived but are forever marked by what happened that day. CNNs Jean Casarez was there.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Families finally getting their chance to be heard.
 
BUCK MYRE, FATHER OF SHOOTING VICTIM: Our family has been navigating our way through complete hell. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It almost feels like time slows down and everything
 
 around you speeds up. It's been two years already but it feels much like yesterday.
 
CASAREZ: Madison Baldwin's mother describing the moment she learned her 17-year-old daughter was dead.
 
NICOLE BEAUSOLEIL, MOTHER OF SHOOTING VICTIM: on November 30th, 2021 is a day that has forever changed my life. It burns into my body like a cigarette burn. I looked through the glass, my screams should have shattered it. My daughter's lifeless body was laying on a cold metal gurney. 
 
CASAREZ: After speaking in court, Nicole Beausoleil told CNN she felt her daughter was with her today. 
 
BEAUSOLEIL: I felt like she was saying I'm proud of you. I'm proud of you for taking the higher route, you know, not going down that path of anger.
 
CASAREZ: Madeline Johnson didn't know walking to class that day would be the last time she would see her friend.
 
MADELINE JOHNSON, FRIEND OF VICTIM: I didn't think that goodbye was going to be permanent. But I thought it was goodbye for an hour and I'll see you next class. 
 
CASAREZ: At first Kylie Ossege thought a balloon popped, then realized she was shot.
 
KYLIE OSSEGE, VICTIM, OXFORD HIGH SCHOOL SHOOTING: I fell right to the ground. I remember hearing screams and I saw running but I couldn't run. I was already down.
 
CASAREZ: Right next to her. Hana St. Juliana. 
 
OSSEGE: And realizing that I wasn't alone, I kept trying to reassure her, someone will come help us, don't worry, just keep breathing, and just please stay with me. And I said that to her a thousand times. 
 
CASAREZ: Hana died from her injuries. Her father spoke directly to the shooter of the future he stole.
 
STEVE ST. JULIANA, FATHER OF VICTIM: I will never think back fondly of her high school and college graduations. I will never walk her down the aisle as she begins the journey of starting her own family. I am forever denied the chance to hold her or her future children in my arms.
 
CASAREZ: In addition to the four students killed, seven other people were shot that day but survived, including Riley Franz, who was hit in the neck, and Molly Darnell, a teacher at the school. 
 
RILEY FRANZ, SHOOTING VICTIM: I can no longer sleep without having flashbacks of a bullet entering one side of my neck and exiting the other . UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Because I came within your line of sight. You
 
 intended to kill me, someone you didn't even know. 
 
CASAREZ: The shooter was sentenced to life in prison without parole.
 
ST. JULIANA: there's utterly nothing that he could ever do to contribute to society that would make up for the lives that he is so ruthlessly taken.
 <br>[06:20:09]
 
MADELINE JOHNSON, SHOOTING SURVIVOR: I want the person who did this to know that Madison would have been your friend. I want you to know that she would have treated you with nothing but kindness had you not killed her. I'm not sure how much emotion you're capable of feeling but I hope you regret it. And I hope it eats away at you. And I hope you feel even a fraction of the loneliness that I felt over these last two years. 
 
MYRE: What you stole from us is not replaceable. But what we won't let you steal from us is a life of normalcy. And we'll find a way to get there through forgiveness and through putting good into this world. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CASAREZ: This case may have concluded but the criminal charges against the shooter's parents James and Jennifer Crumbley will be going to trial early this next year. This is a precedent-setting case. It is the first time in American jurisprudence that the parents of a mass school shooter have been charged with the crime itself. James and Jennifer Crumbley, both charged with involuntary manslaughter that they in buying that gun for their son knowing that he had mental issues, they were on notice that something like this could have happened. 
 
Their trials have now been severed. They will have individual trials. But the first trial it is believed will begin January 23rd, 2024. Victor, Amara.
 
WALKER: Jean Casarez, thank you. Up next, with just 11 months until the next Presidential election, campaigns are dealing with legal troubles with the leading candidate or his family members. How could those distractions impact Biden and Trump while on the trail?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:25:56]
 
BLACKWELL: Only six weeks before the caucuses now and GOP Presidential candidate Nikki Haley was back in Iowa.
 
WALKER: And while she says she's okay with not winning she says she does expect to go head-to-head with former President Donald Trump. Here's CNN Eva McKend. 
 
EVA MCKEND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: In her first Townhall appearance since the fourth Republican Presidential debate, Nikki Haley took questions from Iowans on a range of issues, on everything from the future of Social Security to the threat of China. She implored Iowans to get out and caucus for her in just six weeks maintaining she is the best person to confront President Biden in a general election, even going so far as to say she didn't have to win Iowa outright, just have a good showing, and continue this momentum. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
NIKKI HALEY, (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The way I look at it is we just need to have a good showing in Iowa. I don't think that means we have to win necessarily. But I think that means we have to have a good showing.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
MCKEND: Voters here in Sioux City tell us they find Haley appealing. They think she's a good alternative to Trump though they don't know if she can beat him in this contest. One thing is for sure, they are going to be seeing a lot of her in the coming weeks. She told them get used to seeing this face. This is just one of five events she will hold over the course of the weekend. Victor, Amara.
 
BLACKWELL: Eva McKend, thanks so much. Let's go now to CNN Political Commentator and Spectrum News Political Anchor Errol Louis. Errol, good morning to you. 
 
We try to isolate the political conversation from the legal conversation. Amara spoke with Joey just a couple of minutes ago. But it seems now that they're intertwined. It is the same conversation. So let me get a political angle of what's happening with Hunter Biden -- Biden and these new charges. This is the Chair of the House Oversight and Accountability Committee, James Comer. Here's what he says about those new charges.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JAMES COMER, (R) CHAIRMAN, OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE: My concern is that why may have indicted Hunter Biden to protect him from having to be deposed in the -- in the House Oversight Committee on Wednesday.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BLACKWELL: How much the sense does that make?
 
ERROL LOUIS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Good morning, Victor. It makes no sense. The reality is, if he is indeed criminally indicted and facing those charges, he will have every right and every legal, I think, almost obligation to protect himself by invoking the 5th Amendment. You know, you can't ask somebody to come to Congress and say all kinds of things that will work against his legal interests in this pending indictment. So, you know, I think they may have outsmarted themselves. 
 
And of course, the politically speaking since that was your question. This was always only about one thing, which was intending to give some talking points to Donald Trump so that he could say, hey, I'm under criminal indictment but so is my opponent, Joe Biden. And they have not managed to make that connection. Hunter Biden is in a lot of legal trouble. None of it, none of it reaches the White House. None of it involves his father. I mean, you read through it, and the connection simply isn't there. I can understand why the Republican House members might be frustrated but those are the facts.
 
BLACKWELL: You say what this was about for Republicans. Hunter Biden weighed in on that as well during a podcast, listen to what he says the motivation is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
HUNTER BIDEN, SON OF JOE BIDEN: They are trying to in the -- in their most illegitimate way but rational way, they're trying to destroy a presidency and so it's not about me. And their most base way, what they're trying to do is they're trying to kill me, knowing that it will be a pain greater than my father could be able to handle.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BLACKWELL: What's your thoughts on that?
 <br>[06:29:55]
 
LOUIS: Well, I mean, you know, he -- he takes it another step. And he's talking literally for those who don't know the history. I mean, this is somebody who lost his mother and infant sister in a car accident, he lost his brother to cancer, he means that literally.
 
He thinks that the Republicans are -- what he's saying in that passage are literally trying to get him to succumb to addiction or commit suicide or otherwise leave this planet, and thereby damage President Biden. That is a heck of an accusation. He's got some evidence for it, though, and that's -- I guess it's what he's feeling, not just persecuted, but feeling like there are people who want to simply eliminate him for political means. That's how tense this whole situation has gotten, Victor.  
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CO-ANCHOR, NEW DAY WEEKEND:  On the way out the door, Congressman Kevin McCarthy has now endorsed former President Trump's re-election bid. Here's what he told "CBS News".
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Will Donald Trump be the nominee? 
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA):  Yes. In the Republican Party, yes. And if Biden stays as the nominee for the Democrats, I believe Donald Trump will win, I believe the Republicans will gain more seats in the house and if the Republicans will win the Senate.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Can he count on your support? 
 
MCCARTHY:  Yes.  UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  That's an endorsement.  
 
MCCARTHY:  I will support the president. I will support President Trump.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Would you be willing to serve in a Trump cabinet? 
 
MCCARTHY:  In the right position. Look, if I am the best person for the job, yes. Look, I've worked with President Trump on a lot of policies. I -- we worked together to win the majority. But we also have a relationship where we're very honest with one another.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BLACKWELL:  There's a lot there, very honest with one another. I'd serve, I'd endorse. Is this a surprise? And what role would McCarthy play? Is he like the Reince Priebus of 2025? What's his role here? 
 
LOUIS:  Well, look, his role is, he's about to become a very well paid lobbyists, and so, he's -- I think trying to set the table for his future business interest. When it comes to the actual politics, this is somebody who got voted out by his own colleagues. And as you know, I don't wager on politics, but if I did, I would pretty much bet against Kevin McCarthy. 
 
He's proven that he does not know how to count votes. His prognostication here, I think -- you know, we could be right, but I don't place much value on it simply because it's coming from Kevin McCarthy, Victor.  
 
BLACKWELL:  RNC is now allowing their primary candidates to participate in unsanctioned debates. CNN will host two next month, one in Iowa and New Hampshire. Is there enough time for these to matter, considering the margin in these polls that Trump has, and if Trump doesn't show up? 
 
LOUIS:  Well, look, it will matter because what happens for second place, just as we heard from Nikki Haley's own mouth, you know, if you come in a strong second, that will matter. So, yes, the politics are fluid. The politics do matter. And it's great that in these unsanctioned bouts, if I understand the criteria right, it will keep Vivek Ramaswamy off the stage, and that alone is a service to the public, the voting public.
 
Keep the conspiracy theorists off in the shadows where they belong, and have a chance for a real debate about real candidates in two states where they're going to be holding caucuses and primaries. That's a great service. And again, who comes in second really does matter. We've seen in the past that it sort of opens the door to a real contest, a real debate, and possibly, a real chicken who gets to be number two on the ticket when the party finishes the entire process. Victor.
 
BLACKWELL:  All right, Errol Louis, thank you. 
 
AMARA WALKER, CO-ANCHOR, NEW DAY WEEKEND:  Still ahead, international criticism pours in after the U.S. vetoes a U.N. resolution, calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza. It comes as a U.N. chief warns there is a high risk of collapse of the humanitarian support system.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:35:00] 
 
BLACKWELL:  This morning, more attacks along the Gaza Strip. The Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry reports at least 71 people killed and 160 hospitalized after Israeli airstrikes.  
 
WALKER:  Meanwhile, the United States is under scrutiny for vetoing a U.N. ceasefire resolution. CNN senior international correspondent Ivan Watson is live in Beirut. Hello, Ivan, tell us more about Israel's ambassador expressing gratitude towards the U.S. for its veto and the global reaction.  
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Right, well, Israel, its ambassador, thanked the U.S. for its support. Basically, the U.S. was the only member of the Security Council to vote against a resolution, calling for a ceasefire in Gaza. So it's a failure to stop the fighting through diplomatic means at the U.N. Security Council. 
 
And this has revealed the growing isolation of both Israel and its closest ally, the U.S., because 13 other members of the Security Council voted in favor of calling for a stop to the fighting. And it also has created this unusual situation where you had Russia, for example, on the same page as some of the world's largest human rights organizations are all aligned in criticizing the U.S.' veto for a ceasefire in Gaza. 
 
The U.S. representative, he argued that putting a stop to the fighting would be, in his words, dangerous because it would allow Hamas to regroup and perhaps one day again attack Israel as it did on October 7th. 
 <br>[06:40:00]
 
The criticism of the U.S. veto was led by the Palestinians. Take a listen to the Palestinian ambassador to the U.N.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RIYAD MANSOUR, PALESTINIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS:  Instead of allowing this Council to uphold its mandate by finally making a clear call after two months of massacres, that the atrocities must end. The war criminals are given more time to perpetuate their crimes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WATSON:  The United Arab Emirates, they drafted this ceasefire resolution, and the UAE deputy ambassador, he said that, quote, "the Council goes isolated, it appears untethered from its own founding document." Russia chimed in, saying that basically the U.S. veto, in the words of the representative from Russia, could lead to condemning thousands, if not tens of thousands of civilians to getting killed in the Middle East, and said, quote, "history will assess what Washington has done."
 
And I listened to Human Rights Watch and Medecins Sans Frontieres, Doctors Without Borders, they went on to say -- MSF, that "the U.S. stands alone in casting its vote against humanity." Human Rights Watch saying the U.S. risks complicity with war crimes. 
 
As this diplomatic initiative failed in the U.N. Security Council, the fighting continued. Again, you had at least 71 people killed according to the Health Ministry in Gaza, and some 160 wounded over the past 24 hours. Back to you, guys.  
 
BLACKWELL:  Ivan Watson for us there, Ivan, thanks so much. Still ahead, the U.S. economy notched up another solid month of job growth, it comes as actors and autoworkers come off the picket lines. And for a lot of us this time of year is about giving back. But CNN Heroes, an all-star tribute salutes 10 extraordinary people who put others first all year long. The stars-studded gala airs live tomorrow at 8:00 p.m. Eastern. Here's a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Tomorrow on CNN --  
 
ESTEFANIA REBELLON, YES WE CAN WORLD FOUNDATION:  We provide bilingual education for migrant and refugee children at the U.S.-Mexico border.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Support the extraordinary people making a difference in our world.  
 
MIKE GOLDBERG, I.CARE:  We are rebuilding the coral reefs here in the Florida Keys.  
 
OSEI BOATENG, OKB HOPE FOUNDATION:  I'm going to ensure that people in Ghana have access to healthcare.  
 
KWANE STEWART, PROJECT STREET VET:  If I see a pet in need and a person who cares for them dearly --   
 
ADAM PEARCE, LOVEYOURBRAIN:  Trauma can be a path where when it grows --   
 
ALVIN IRBY, BARBERSHOP BOOKS:  We store child-friendly reading space in a barbershop. 
 
YASMINE ARRINGTON BROOKS, SCHOLARCHIPS:  We all are connected because of the shared experience of having an incarcerated parent. 
 
STACEY BUCKNER, OFF-ROAD OUTREACH:  There should be no homeless vets, period, none.
 
TESCHA HAWLEY, DAY EAGLE HOPE PROJECT:  I don't want to be defined as a victim of my circumstances. 
 
MAMA SHU, AVALON VILLAGE:  I do want to make sure that they get all the attention and love that they deserve.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  CNN Heroes, an all-star tribute tomorrow at 8:00 on CNN. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL:  It's going to be a fantastic show. You won't want to miss it, again, it's tomorrow night, 8:00 p.m. Eastern.  
 <br>[06:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER:  A Texas woman has been dealt another blow in her legal battle to abort a high-risk pregnancy. The state Supreme Court is now blocking an emergency abortion for Kate Cox in a decision handed down late Friday. Cox is 20 weeks pregnant, and  she's carrying a fetus that is not expected to live for more than a few days after birth and it could threaten her future fertility.  
 
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton asked the court to intervene after a state judge ruled to allow earlier -- to allow her to have an abortion earlier in the week. Paxton said the mother did not qualify for medical exemption status.   
 
BLACKWELL:  President Biden is calling on the country to get smart on gun regulation after the recent shooting at the University of Nevada. The president met with UNLV students and leaders during a stop in Las Vegas, Friday. Biden said shotgun practice is one thing, but sensible gun laws are necessary now. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Folks, we've got to get smart. There have been over 600 mass shootings in America this year alone. Plus, daily acts of gun violence does not even make the national news. This is not normal, and we can never let it become normal.  
 
People have the right to feel safe, be safe, and I'm fighting to make sure they do. But all these actions I've taken as president of the United States -- violence epidemic is not enough. We need Congress to step up.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BLACKWELL:  Biden's comments come after three people were killed and another wounded on the campus, and the shooting there this week. The U.S. economy beats out the expectations of economists and adds 199,000 new jobs last month.   
 
WALKER:  Here's CNN's business and politics reporter Vanessa Yurkevich on what this report can mean for future rate hikes.   
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS &amp; POLITICS REPORTER:  Victor and Amara, a stronger-than-expected jobs report beating expectations, but not too hot at all. One hundred and ninety-nine thousand jobs added, and the unemployment rate dropping to 3.7 percent. 
 
We've now seen an unemployment rate below 4 percent for nearly two years since December of 2021. So, here's where we saw the biggest gains in November. Healthcare, government and leisure and hospitality all coming in between 77,000 and 40,000 jobs added. 
 <br>[06:50:00] 
 
But a caveat here. The jobs added in manufacturing were autoworkers coming off the picket lines, 28,000 jobs added. And 17,000 jobs added to Motion Picture and sound recording, those were actors from SAG coming off the picket lines and back onto payrolls.     
 
But in retail, we saw declines of 38,000 jobs which is unusual for this time of year as we normally see an uptick because of seasonal hiring. That could be a sign that retailers are pulling back because of concerns over a slowdown in consumer spending. 
 
But all in all, this was a robust report, the jobs market has been the little engine that could, hiring and showing wage growth despite inflation and rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. So, this is certainly a signal that the Fed could pause rate hikes this week as interest rates will cool, which is good news for anyone trying to buy a home, paying student loans, credit cards or their car loans. Victor, Amara?  
 
WALKER:  Yes, that's some good news. We need this interest rates to cool. Vanessa Yurkevich, thank you. Still ahead, it's one of the most celebrated college football rivalries of the year. The 124th edition of America's game, Army-Navy just hours from kickoff. We will go live to the stadium, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:55:00] 
 
BLACKWELL:  This morning, 30 million people are under the threat of severe weather in the south, from the eastern Texas area through western Tennessee, and the potential threats are tornadoes and large hail and damaging winds.   
 
WALKER:  CNN's meteorologist Allison Chinchar, she is tracking all the latest. Hi there, Allison, what are you seeing?   
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, METEOROLOGIST:  Yes, it's a pretty big system, in fact, you're going to have a lot of impact, say from the Midwest, all the way down to the Gulf Coast. Now, we're already starting to see some of those thunderstorms beginning to fire up across the southeast, but more of that is really going to fill in this afternoon, especially after you get the heating of the day, that sun coming back out.
 
So more of these showers and thunderstorms are really going to become strong. Once we get say, 2:00, 3:00, 4 O'clock this afternoon and that one continuing to the evening as this system begins to slide off to the east. So eventually, by tonight, really starting to bring that heavy rainfall to places like Knoxville, eventually, and towards Atlanta and Charlotte overnight tonight. 
 
Now, the main threats here are going to be tornadoes, damaging winds and the potential for some hail, that includes Nashville, Shreveport, down through New Orleans. And again, the main timeframe here is the afternoon and evening. But that system doesn't just end by tomorrow.  
 
We're noticing that cold front continuing to slide east, but now you're starting to see a lot more impacts start to begin to shift a little bit farther north. Tomorrow, the main concern isn't necessarily severe storms, but snow and even a little bit of some ice. So, you'll see a lot of that snow beginning to develop Sunday, especially across the Appalachians, but then it starts to spreads into the Poconos.  
 
You're talking about the white and the green mountains, up into the northeast. So Monday morning, yes, even though you're not necessarily going to get snow in New York, it's likely going to be a very soggy commute Monday morning just because of the heavy rain. Same thing for Boston, Hartford, Connecticut as well.  
 
And then interior areas of the northeast, now you're talking some pretty decent amounts of snow coming down, especially that overnight. It's the combination, however, the moisture. You've also got the potential for flooding. You've got about 50 million people under a flood watch over the next several days as this system moves through.  
 
And again, you look at all this yellow up here, you're talking 2, 3, even as much as 5 inches of rain just over the next few days. A couple of pockets of that into the southeast as well. When we talk about snow, obviously, the  highest amounts going to be in those higher elevations where we could pick up about a half a foot of snow.   
 
WALKER:  All right, Allison Chinchar, thank you. So, there's only one game on the college football schedule this week, get the 124th edition of the Army-Navy game.   
 
BLACKWELL:  And for the first time in the more than a century-long rivalry, the game is being played in Foxborough, Massachusetts, and that's where CNN's sports anchor Coy Wire is with us. Wear the hat, I imagine you need it.   
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT:  Hey, I'll let you borrow this one my bald brother any time, it's 32 degrees out here, it's actually kind of nice. Listen, this rivalry is intense. The 34th President of the United States Theodore Roosevelt, he said the Army and Navy are the best of friends 364.5 days of the year, but this one, Saturday afternoon, they are the worst of enemies.  
 
But there's this mutual respect that's unmatched in other rivalries. And I've talked to players who said they hope that communities all across the country can emulate the respect they have for one another despite their differences. We talked to both teams and asked about that mutual respect. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
XAVIER ARLINE, NAVY QUARTERBACK:  I respect army because I know they're going through the same things we are. They go through daily grind. They're a great football team, they're -- you know, under- recruited guys that are sacrificing themselves to do the same thing we are. And it's truly an honor to be playing alongside of them.   
 
JIMMY CIARLO, ARMY LINEBACKER:  I respect Navy because, you know, we made different choices to go to different academies, but in the same way, you know, we made the same choice to serve. And you know, there's a lot of parallels   between our lives as different as it may seem. So I respect them for that.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WIRE:  Dating back to 1890, one of the best things about this rivalry or the traditions, one of them is the running of the game ball. Army West Point Marathon team took it 200-plus miles to bring the game ball here to the field yesterday. We caught up with the team as they arrived. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We started at 0-1, and we've been running to now, so we've been on the move for 13 hours.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We've been doing this four years and it never gets old. It's like being a part of the army tradition is just an amazing thing.   
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Dead of night, alone with -- while your team is behind you and spin all seven and support each other is awesome.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It's more than a game. It's about bringing together not just the teams of Army-Navy, but the whole country. It's much more than a game. It's a special bond that we all share.   
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WIRE:  America's game highlighting some of the best and brightest this country has to offer.