Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Florida Dad Charged For Punching Umpire At Baseball Game; Final Preps Underway For King Charles' Coronation Tomorrow; Maria Menounos Reveals Battle With Pancreatic Cancer; "The 2010s" Premieres Sunday At 9PM ET/PT. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired May 05, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Is he going to be executed?
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Doesn't even know that news. Doesn't even know that news yet because his wife is visiting with him. They don't have access to phones while that happening. We're supposed to be hearing -- he'll find out in the next hour or so when his wife leaves. Again, what he thought would be his final visitation with his wife. 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Amazing they can't contact anyone with that news. Brynn Gingras, thanks very much. 
 
And do stay with CNN. Next hour Glossip's lawyer and some of the people who were with him today will join CNN to speak about all this. That's ahead on "THE LEAD WITH JAKE TAPPER" -- Jessica. 
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN HOST: A Florida father is out on bond today after he punched an umpire during a high school baseball game. Video showing the moment 41-year-old Jorge Aponte Gonzalez approached the field and then sucker punches the 63-year-old umpire. CNN Carlos Suarez is following the story for us. Carlos, what on earth happened here? 
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Jessica, of all things, an unsportsmanlike conduct warning from that umpire led to this encounter. The umpire says that he gave that warning from a player from one of the teams during a high school baseball game last month in Osceola County. And the father of that player -- as you see him there -- walks up to him and punches him after the umpire and this player had a back and forth about this unsportsmanlike conduct warning. 
 
41-year-old Jorge Gonzalez has been charged with battery on a sports official. That's a felony in Florida. As well as disruption of a school function. He has since bonded out of jail on $1,500 bail. The sheriff said that this isn't the first time that Gonzalez has been a bit of a disruption at a baseball game and that he showed no remorse for any of this. As for the umpire, Jessica, he is doing OK. And he says that he is ready to officiate his next game. 
 
SCHNEIDER: My goodness. What a model that is put out there for children. All right, Carlos Suarez, thanks so much -- Boris. BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Next, what are royal experts going to be
 
 watching for at tomorrow's coronation? We're going to ask one in just minutes. 
 
Plus, Oregon police have just reopened a decade-long cold case thanks to a mushroom hunter. We're going to explain when we come back on CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SANCHEZ: A historic moment is taking shape SANCHEZ: in London right now. By this time tomorrow King Charles III will have his crown. His coronation is going to be the first in the U.K. in 70 years. Today he met with members of the public outside of Buckingham Palace. Some have been camping out for days just to catch a glimpse of the monarch. 
 
Dignitaries from around the world are also there including first lady Jill Biden, who's leading the U.S. delegation. Princess Catherine of Wales also released this photo of their meeting just a short time ago. Standing with them, Ukraine first lady Olena Zelenskyy. Joining us to discuss, CNN royal commentator and royal editor for "Hello! Magazine," Emily Nash. Emily, thank you so much for being with us. For the first time in 70 years, nearly a lifetime, a monarch is going to be crowned. What are you going to be watching for? 
 
EMILY NASH, CNN ROYAL COMMENTATOR: I'm going to be watching for the ritual and tradition but also the new elements of this ceremony. Because the king has done a lot to try and make this as inclusive and as relevant to modern Britain as he possibly can. I think it's going to be an amazing blend of rituals based back 1,000 years and representation of the people who make up this country today. 
 
SANCHEZ: Emily, tell us about the items that he's going to be using, that were used by some of his family members previously. 
 
NASH: Well, that's right. We're going to see some incredible gold vestments. These are priestly robes that were made many, many years ago. They were worn both by Queen Elizabeth II, also by the king's grandfather George Vi and great-grandfather George V. So, these are things that have been worn over the years. But older than that still, is an item worn by George IV. So, we're going back to the 18th century now and we're going see these items being permanently preserved for this occasion on show in the Abbey tomorrow. 
 
SANCHEZ: And speaking to what you just noted about what so many in Britain are watching right now. A new phase for the U.K. and in some ways a difficult one given so many folks are dealing with inflation and this sort of reusing of traditional garb. Kind of an acknowledgement that folks face difficult times. 
 
NASH: Very much so. Look, I think no one is pretending that this isn't going to look wildly popular tomorrow given the cost-of-living prices people are experiencing in this country at the moment. The fact that these items are within the royal collection, they're normally kept at the Tower of London. They're part of the crown jewels. You know, you have to understand that these belong in a sense to the state to the crown -- not to the monarch himself. And people will understand that reusing them is as much part of tradition as, you know, the sustainability that the king is so famous for. But it's entirely fitting he hasn't commissioned new items. 
 
SANCHEZ: And Emily, obviously, we can't ignore some of the potential drama we're going to watch unfold tomorrow. Prince Harry has been estranged by his family following the recent release of his book. 
 <br>[15:40:02]
 
Do you think he's going to sit with the royal family? 
 
NASH: I think he will be sitting with the royal family but perhaps not with senior working members of the royal family. We may see him as we did at the late queen's funeral, with his cousins Princess Eugenie and Princess Beatrice. He is very much going to be there as part of the family but not in any official role. And that will be the same for his uncle, the Duke of York, of course. You know, they're there as members of the family but not as part of the working firm. 
 
SANCHEZ: A lot to be on the lookout for. Emily Nash, thank you so much for that. And don't forget CNN's coverage of the coronation begins at 5:00 a.m. tomorrow -- Jim. 
 
SCIUTTO: Well after a decade-long search police believe they may have found remains of a missing woman. What investigators think could have happened to her. 
 
And celebrity host Maria Menounos says she has beaten pancreatic cancer. It's amazing. Symptoms that major, seek help initially, coming up.
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SCIUTTO: Now to some other headlines we're watching this hour. Oregon investigators have a new lead in a reopening nearly 10-year-old missing person's case. Stephanie Ann Warner -- who you see in this poster -- disappeared July 4, 2013, after attending a parade with her then boyfriend. Police think she was the victim of foul play. Now they say a mushroom hunter found human hair and tissue samples not far from where he used to live. Investigators are testing the samples hoping for new clues. We didn't show the picture there but will get it for you. 
 
Weight-loss chain Jenny Craig is going out of business. The 40-year- old company made the announcement on Facebook. Uncertainty about its future began last week with reports of layoffs and the closure of nearly 500 weight-loss centers across the U.S. and Canada. Its website has already shut down and delivery subscriptions have been canceled. The company is reportedly considering filing for bankruptcy if it cannot find a buyer. And decisions, decisions. Try nearly 200 decisions. New Orleans high
 
 school senior Dennis Barnes received more than 185 college acceptance letters, more than $10 million in scholarships offered. That is a record for a college-bound student, and he's only 16 years old. He's graduating nearly two years early with a 4.98 GPA. When I was a kid only went up to 4. So, where's this going? Barnes chose Cornell University where he will study computer science in the College of Engineering. And you'll see him on "THE LEAD." coming up -- Jessica.
 
SCHNEIDER: All the applications he had to fill out. Congratulations to him. 
 
Maria Menounos is opening up revealing her battle with stage-2 pancreatic cancer. And describing fight to get an accurate diagnosis. The Emmy award-winning journalist says she's now cancer-free. But she is encouraging others to be what she calls, the CEO of your health. CNN's Jacqueline Howard is following this. And Jacqueline, doctors originally could not figure out what was wrong with her. What is she saying other people can learn from her fight? 
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: Well, Jessica, I can tell you that Maria said that here's her journey. She was experiencing some abdominal pain after speaking with a friend of hers. She decided to get a full body MRI scan. This was an elective MRI and that's when a mass was found and she was then diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Now an elective MIR can cost around $2,500. And I can tell you this is not how most people are typically diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. 
 
It's very difficult to detect this cancer early. But, Jessica, is raising awareness around the symptoms of pancreatic cancer and importance of listening to your body. So, symptoms of pancreatic cancer can include abdominal or back pain like Maria experienced. It also includes jaundice. That's yellowing of the whites and skin -- the white of your eyes and your skin. And also, you can have white-colored stool, dark-colored urine. Those are the signs and symptoms of pancreatic cancer that we typically see among cancer patients -- Jessica. 
 
SCHNEIDER: And it's amazing she's now cancer-free. Because typically when you hear pancreatic cancer as a diagnosis, Jacqueline, it's pretty serious. What's the typical prognosis for someone with that sort of cancer? 
 
HOWARD: It's absolutely serious. And typically, with this type of cancer compared with other cancers, it has a five-year survival rate. That's around 5 to 10 percent. So that's why it is very incredible that Maria was able to diagnose this early and as she says now doing well. But that's typically the survival rate that we see with pancreatic cancer -- Jessica. 
 
SCHNEIDER: That's incredible. Well, we're glad that she's cancer-free and doing well. Jacqueline Howard for us, thanks so much -- Boris.
 
SANCHEZ: May is mental health awareness month and according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness one in five American adults struggle with their mental health. Less than half receive treatment though. This week 2021 CNN hero Michelle Neff Fernandez shares some critical advice. She says let go of the stigma and reach out for help. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHELLE NEFF FERNANDEZ, NONPROFIT SOARING SPIRITS: I think our society has told us that there's something wrong with you if you feel broken and that mental health breakdowns equal weakness. I believe that the truth is it's the ability to allow ourselves to be broken that opens the opportunity for healing. 
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
One of the things that we underestimate as a society is how our global mental health impacts us as individuals. And we have seen it over and over again as we experience gun violence. On one hand, we can see what happens when people don't get the help they need. There can be tragic consequences. 
 
On the flip side of that, you have families dealing with the grief and trauma of living through or not living through gun violence. So, we are in this canoe together. We are all impacted by gun violence. And how that influences us changes depending on where we sit in the canoe. 
 
If you're actively struggling with your mental health and you haven't told anybody, I'm asking you today to please share your struggle with one person. And if you don't have a personal relationship with someone where you feel like you could make that call, please use one of the many mental health hotlines that are available. It feels so lonely when you're struggling by yourself. Know that you're not alone in this. I promise.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SANCHEZ: For more advice from Michelle Neff Hernandez and several other CNN heroes on nurturing good mental health, go to CNNheroes.com, where you can also nominate your own CNN hero. Stay with CNN. We're back in just minutes.
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SCIUTTO: The 2010s in the United States could be the most consequential decade since the 1960s, marked by political, social unrest, the rise in social media, of course capped off by the year that changed everything, 2020. Now, CNN's acclaimed decades series is back with the 2010s, and a definitive look at the transformative decade. But first, we examine the rise of Peak TV and its impact on pop culture in America. Here's a preview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The 2010s have ushered in a new era called Peak TV. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The like button was a market genius. 
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It can be frustrating, this business of democracy. 
 
HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am running for --
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: -- president of the United States. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was a moment that said, we have to tell our stories. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I maybe the voice of my generation, or at least a voice. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Joining us now are two actresses who made an indelible mark on audiences in the 2010s. Jennifer Robertson, who played Jocelyn, and Karen Robinson, who played Ronnie on the award- winning show "Schitt's Creek." It is so good, Karen and Jennifer, to have you both with us to talk about the show as we delve here into the 2010s. You know Karen, there is so much love for this show, and it really culminated in that huge seven-category sweep at the Emmys in 2020 just before the final season premiered on Netflix. What did that feel like to get that kind of recognition? 
 
KAREN ROBINSON: PLAYED RONNIE LEE IN "SCHITT'S CREEK": It felt like we were this -- we were always this little show that could, you know? This little Canadian show that had this incredible impact, which we were all so grateful for. But even at the Emmys, those of us who could get together did get together, but we couldn't all be together because of COVID. So, it still felt like we were this little family that had all this stuff coming at us. And man, that was overwhelming. It's still overwhelming to this day. I was with Dan talking about it. And we're still sort of like, did that really happen? So, I think that's where we are, and hopefully that's where we'll always be. 
 
SCIUTTO: What was the secret to that electricity in the cast? 
 
ROBINSON: You go, Jen. 
 
JENNIFER ROBERTSON, PLAYED JACQUELINE SCHITT IN "SCHITT'S CREEK": I mean great casting. Yes, great casting for the show. Then just a great energy. Going to work every day on that show, you realize how lucky you are once you've been on other shows. Everybody was so incredible and professional and so funny, and it was just a joy every day to go to work. 
 
ROBINSON: I felt like I was really in the presence of comedy royalty. Every single day I felt so lucky to be amongst those people. And I feel like the casting process, like Jen said, was so well-conducted, and it was so -- it was so very specific. Dan Levy is the kind of person who does not stop until he gets it right. And so, you just know that every single person he chose, he chose because he knew that they would add their particularities of self to the role that he was casting them in. And he wasn't wrong. He was not wrong. 
 
SANCHEZ: I'm curious to get from both of you, starting with Jennifer, what your favorite memory is from filming the show. 
 
ROBERTSON: Very hard to pin down a favorite. Any day with the Jazzagals was a delight. 
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
Once all the Jazzagals were gathered, there was singing on-set all day long and it has such a great feeling. There were so many great memories. The last day of shooting, as Karen will say, was really special and tender and sweet. So many great memories. It's really hard to narrow it down. 
 
SCIUTTO: So many great memories for sure. That does it for us at CNN NEWS CENTRAL. Don't go anywhere. "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now.