Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Titanic-Bound Sub Suffered "Catastrophic Implosion"; Indian Prime Minister Honored With State Dinner as Biden Aims to Counter China's Rising Influence; Critics of Prime Minister Modi Points to Human Rights Record, Treatment of Muslim in India; Russian Pledges to Fix Damaged Chonhar Bridge; Over 495,000 People Impacted by Floods in India; Spurs Select Victor Wembanyama as No. 1 Pick. Aired 12-12:45a ET

Aired June 23, 2023 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:01:18]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Ahead here on CNN Newsroom. Catastrophic implosion, search crews recover debris from the Titan submersible not far from the wreckage of the Titanic. All five passengers on board presume dead. 
 
The White House rolls out the real politic, wooing the Indian Prime Minister despite the U.S. State Department warning minorities in India face discrimination and persecution.
 
And a failure to meet expectations, U.S. Military officials say the Ukrainian counteroffensive is off to a less than successful start with Ukrainian forces bogged down and vulnerable. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN Newsroom with John Vause. 
 
VAUSE: Thanks for joining us. And we begin this hour, 487 meters off the bow, the Titanic, at a depth of 3.8 kilometers below the ocean's surface with a pressure per square inch of 5500 pounds, where a remote operated vehicle discovered five major pieces of debris, what is believed to be all that's left of the Titan submersible. 
 
The U.S. Coast Guard says the wreckage is consistent with a catastrophic implosion, killing all five on board and bringing an end to a desperate four-day long search and worldwide vigil. Just when the implosion happened is still not known, but the U.S. Navy detected an acoustic anomaly consistent with an implosion or explosion shortly after communication with the Titan was lost about an hour, 45 minutes into its descent. The search and rescue operation continued because the Navy did not consider the data definitive. 
 
Our coverage begins with CNN's Miguel Marquez. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN MAUGER, U.S. COAST GUARD: The debris field is consistent with a catastrophic implosion of the vessel. 
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: A catastrophic implosion. Five crew members aboard the Titan submersible gone. The vessel torn to pieces by extreme pressure. 
 
PAUL HANKINS, DIRECTOR, U.S. NAVY SALVAGE OPERATIOINS AND OCEAN ENGINEERING: We found five different major pieces of debris that told us that it was the remains of the Titan. 
 
MARQUEZ: The destruction of the vessel so great debris found in two different areas just in front of the Titanic. The wreckage they hoped to view. The debris 1600 feet from the Titanic's bow and consistent with where it would have fallen if there was implosion as the sub was descending to the great ship on Sunday. 
 
CARL HARTSFIELD, WOODS HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION: 200 plus meters from the bow, inconsistent with the location of last communication for an implosion in the water column. And the size of the debris field is consistent with that implosion in the water column. 
 
MARQUEZ: OceanGate, the company that owns the now destroyed vessel, saying in a statement these men were true explorers who shared a distinct spirit of adventure and a deep passion for exploring and protecting the world's oceans. Our hearts are with these five souls and every member of their families during this tragic time. 
 
All indications so far, the implosion happened shortly after the Titan lost contact with mothership an hour and 45 minutes into what was expected to be around a nine-hour dive. 
 
MAUGER: We've had sonar buoys in the water nearly continuously and have not detected any catastrophic events. 
 
MARQUEZ: Colin Taylor was aboard the Titan last year, knew the OceanGate founder and PH Nargeolet and says everyone on board would have known the risk they were taking. 
 
COLIN TAYLOR, WENT TO TITAN SUBMERSIBLE LAST YEAR: You know when you get into it that it's not without risk. This is not for the faint hearted. 
 
MAUGER (on camera): There was such hope for a miracle and it came to such a tragic end. The question now what? Officials say that they will continue to survey the debris field to see if they can recover anything from it and possibly if they can recover remains of the victims. But given the catastrophic event, that may be impossible. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:05:15]
 
VAUSE: Live down to Palm Springs, California, and Bobby Chacon is retired FBI Special Agent who is also a lead diver for the FBI's Underwater Search and Evidence Response Team. Bobby, it's good to see you. BOBBY CHACON, FORMER LEADER, FBI DIVE TEAM: Good to see you again,
 
 John. Thanks. 
 
VAUSE: OK, so the big unanswered question now, I guess, you know, is what caused this implosion? I want you to listen to a little more from the U.S. navy on what was found and where. Here we go. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANKINS: The initial thing we found was a nose cone, which was outside of the pressure hall. We then found a larger debris field. Within that large debris field, we found the front-end bell of the pressure hall. That was the first indication that there was a catastrophic event. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Explain how there can be what they call a large debris field here, because, you know, the image I have if the Titan imploded, why would the wreckage be scattered over a wide area? 
 
CHACON: Well, you see, what happens is the implosion happens and then there's a simultaneously explosion because there are things inside, for example, oxygen tanks that were actually inside that vessel. So when the implosion happens, then there's almost simultaneously it happens right after. 
 
But to the human eye, it would be almost simultaneously explosion. So the two things that they found, the cones or the caps of that vessel, if you were titanium, so they weren't destroyed. They were laying there. And the carbon fiber shell that made up most of that vessel just came apart in the implosion explosion. And that's what scattered about. And everything else inside there, including human remains, were scattered about in that. That's what the debris field is. The two titanium taps were probably intact, but the rest of it is what everything else in there, was scattered about between those two caps. 
 
VAUSE: And there are two -- five major pieces of debris here. It's not far from the wreckage of the Titanic. Here's a little more on where the debris is now lying. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARTSFIELD: It's in an area where there is not any debris of Titanic. It is a smooth bottom. There -- to my knowledge and anything I've seen, there's no Titanic wreckage in that area. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Nothing at 12 and a half thousand feet below the surface, I imagine is straightforward. But how difficult would it be to recover this debris? And if it's not recovered, if OceanGate refuses to bring it to the surface because I think they're the ones responsible for it, will it still be possible to know for certain what happened, what caused the implosion? 
 
CHACON: It won't be unless you recover the majority of that vessel. The sooner they do that, the better, because the ocean changes things all the time. Tides and currents and ocean pressures moves things around unless they're very big. And so the best scenario is for them to get the RVs down there that have these capabilities. They have baskets, they have arms, they can lift all the debris. 
 
Now, it sounds, the good thing is it sounds like there's no other Titanic debris in that section. So everything they come across there should be collected, put into baskets and brought back to the surface for analysis. But the sooner the better, because the ocean tends to move things around. 
 
VAUSE: Yeah, Director James Cameron of the Titanic movie fame. He has a considerable deep-sea experience and he drew a direct comparison between the fate of the unsinkable passenger liner and the Titan submersible. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES CAMERON, "TITANIC" DIRECTOR: Here's a case starkly today where the collective we didn't remember the lesson of Titanic. These guys at OceanGate didn't. Because the arrogance and the hubris that sent that ship to its doom is exactly the same thing that sent those people in that sub to their fate. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Given all the safety questions about the Titan, which seemed to got unanswered in recent days, does he make a fair point? 
 
CHACON: I think he does. I think it's troubling that you had people both inside that company and outside that company voicing concerns about safety. There was an industry group of deep ocean explorers who got together collectively and sent a letter to this company saying, we are concerned about your safety protocols. You are not following the safety protocols that we as an industry have promulgated. And we're concerned about that because if you of a catastrophic accident, it could affect the rest of our industry. And so they sent that letter back in 2018, I believe. So there has been some concern about this particular company and the safety margins that it was operating at. 
 
VAUSE: Bobby Chacon, as always, it's great to have you with us. Really appreciate it, and good to see you. 
 
CHACON: Thanks, John. 
 
VAUSE: Well, India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been the guest of honor Thursday at only the third state dinner held by the Biden White House. The entirely vegetarian menu was part of a diplomatic charm offensive by President Biden as he tries to woo Prime Minister Modi and India away from buying Russian oil and weapons and also to act as a counterweight to China's rising influence in the region. 
 <br>[00:10:02]
 
A number of new trade deals and defense initiatives intended to strengthen ties between New Delhi and Washington were also announced. And President Biden talked up the relationship between both countries in his toast to his guest of honor. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, (D) U.S. PRESIDENT: Toast to our partnership, to our people, to the possibilities that lie ahead. Two great friends, two great nations and two great powers. Cheers. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: For a second time, Prime Minister Modi delivered a joint address to Congress, receiving an overwhelming welcome by lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. That is except from six progressive Democrats who boycotted the speech over Modi's record on human rights abuses. 
 
Details out from CNN's Manu Raju reporting in from Capitol Hill. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Capitol Hill on Thursday, giving the rare honor of a foreign leader to address a joint meeting of Congress. Many House members and senators sitting in the chamber of the House listening to Modi's speech, and where he stressed the common bonds between Americans and Indians and about the alliance between the two countries, particularly amid the threat from China, something that the United States see is essential with the partnership with India, which is one reason why President Joe Biden has given Modi a red-carpet treatment as he has come to United States.
 
Well, everything from a state dinner to meeting with the press, as well as a private audience with the President and the Prime Minister of India. But when addressing the United States Congress earlier the day on Thursday, Modi made clear that he believes that the United States alliance and relationship with India is essential and that he believes it will continue to grow in the years ahead.
 
NARENDRA MODI, INDIAN PRIME MINISTER: We come from different circumstances and history, but we are united by a common vision. And by a common destiny when our partnership progress, economic resilience increases, innovation grows, science flourishes, knowledge advances, humanity benefits, our seas and skies are safer. Democracy will shine brighter, and the world will be better place.
 
RAJU: Now, Modi on Capitol Hill was greeted by congressional leaders including Speaker McCarthy who escorted him into the House. Later, he met with other congressional leaders, including Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, as well as Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell. 
 
But there were some members of the Progressive Caucus in the House who refused to attend Modi's speech that included Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, others who had criticized Modi over concerns that India is backsliding on some key democratic ideals such as freedom of the press, as well as silencing some political opponents in India. 
 
Modi was asked about this at the White House, he pushed back on the notion that India is no longer a democratic country amid concerns of his heavy-handed approach that his critics say as essentially cause the country to backslide on some of those democratic ideals. But nevertheless, the United States sees India, the world's largest democracy as an essential partnership -- partner amid the growing threats from China. Manu Raju, CNN, Capitol Hill.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
VAUSE: With us now from Washington is Democrat Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib, one of six members of Congress who boycotted the joint address by India's Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. 
 
Congresswoman, thank you so much for your time. 
 
RASHIDA TLAIB, U.S. HOUSE DEMOCRAT: Thank you so much for having me. 
 
VAUSE: OK, so during a joint news conference, both Prime Minister Modi and President Biden stressed this democratic bond both the United States and India share. Here's part of what they both had to say. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: It's a common democratic candidate -- character in both our countries and our people. Our diversity, our culture, our open, tolerant, robust debate. 
 
MODI (through translator): India and America both countries, democracy is in our DNA. Democracy is in our spirit. Democracy runs in our veins. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: What's your response to that? 
 
TLAIB: My response is for the fourth year in a row, the U.S. -- our own U.S. commission on International Religious Freedom, recommended that our own State Department designate India as a country of particular concern when it comes to religious freedom because of the various violations that we continue to see worsen even in 2022, as recent as 2022. 
 
So, you know, it's not only just human rights, but only institutions like our own State Department of Bureau of Democracy for Human Rights and Labor has called out violations like the enforced disappearances, unjust prosecution of journalists, restrictions on human rights and civil society organizations. 
 <br>[00:15:13]
 
And, you know, what I think most people do focus on, which I think is important, is the collective punishment against minority communities, not just Muslims, but all different other faiths and even Hindus that speak out against some of those human rights violations. And so the facts are before us and even as folks try to gaslight the American people, including our own president in regards to Modi, it is very clear the actions speak louder than the words. 
 
VAUSE: Former President Barack Obama was asked about his time in office, and this balance between, you know, what some say is the idealistic and what others say is being realistic. Here's the former president. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BARACK OBAMA, (D) FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: Look, it's complicated. The president of the United States has a lot of equities. And when I was president, I would deal with figures in some cases who were allies, who, you know, if you pressed me in private, do they run their governments and their political parties in ways that I would say are ideally democratic? I'd have to say no. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The argument here is that having New Delhi as a close ally to counter Russia and China is far more valuable to the United States than holding Modi to account for human rights abuses, past and present. And judging by this welcome he received when he arrived in the chamber, listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
CROWD: Modi, Modi, Modi, Modi, Modi, Modi, Modi.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Would you say many in Congress, many of your colleagues seem to agree with that? 
 
TLAIB: I don't know. I can tell you this by bestowing Prime Minister Modi with the rare honor -- rare honor of a joint address, Congress undermines, we do, we undermine our ability to be a credible advocate for the rights of religious minorities and journalists around the world. 
 
I think it's shameful to honor these abuses by allowing Modi to address Congress, but I also think our country, the United States, must never, never sacrifice human rights at the altar of political expediency. And I urge all my colleagues that continue to tell them, look, we have to, if we're professing that we stand up for freedom and democracy, then we must again push back against leaders like that, have a meeting, have a conversation. 
 
But to allow this kind of rolling of the red carpet, as people are referring it to, to mean it just enables more violence. It openly, again, says it's OK that you are targeting Muslims and religious minorities. It is OK that you're allowing -- enabling Hindu nationalist -- nationalistic violence undermining democracy, targeting journalists and descendants. To me, it goes beyond, again, having this conversation of leaders that you may not agree with. I think it's shameful. VAUSE: As you mentioned, this honor of a joint address to Congress,
 
 it's fairly rare. It's been given in the past to foreign leaders like Ukraine's President Zelenskyy, Pope Francis, Britain's Queen Elizabeth, and along with his joint address, Modi is also honored with a state dinner at the White House as well. 
 
Keep in mind, it's been almost a year since the infamous fist bump between President Biden and the Saudi Crown Prince, a man President Biden once described as a pariah for ordering the killing of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi. 
 
So there does seem to be a lack of moral consistency here, which, to be fair, has been sort of a hallmark of U.S. foreign policy for quite some time. You talked about some of the consequences here. And when values and morals seem to collide over geopolitical advantage, how do you square these things off? How do you win New Delhi over without having to sacrifice values, without having to, you know, roll out the red carpet in such a way? 
 
TLAIB: Feel like our country is losing credibility when we don't actually stand up for the things that we say we do. And by not having these really important, I think, very valuable conversations, that we missed a huge opportunity. We used a huge opportunity by using our own leverage, our leverage to save lives, to push back against the human rights abuses, to talk about releasing the journalists that are now imprisoned for just speaking the truth. 
 
We cannot, again, allow again the violence and abuse to be enabled by just us looking the other way. Again, we lose so much credibility. But even the American people, the American people need us again to have a lot more political courage, to speak up. 
 
We could have conversations. We could have other types of partnership that did not. Again, for me, what I saw today is enabling Modi to continue as is continue the status quo. We should and must again speak out against these human rights abuses in a way that I know can save lives. Many, many American families have family members in India now. They expected more from their president. They expected more from the Congress. 
 <br>[00:20:09]
 
VAUSE: Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib, thank you so much for being with us. We really appreciate your time. Thank you for what you're doing. 
 
TLAIB: Thank you. 
 
VAUSE: Well, much more from Christiane Amanpour's exclusive interview with former U.S. President Barack Obama coming up in the next hour of CNN Newsroom. You can watch the entire conversation later today, 01:00 p.m. in New York, 06:00 p.m. in London. You will see it only here on CNN. 
 
Well, when we come back, Ukraine pushing back against criticism. Its counteroffensive is moving too slowly. Kyiv's response to the critics is, don't get too many ideas from a Hollywood movie. We'll explain in a moment. 
 
Plus, Victor Wembanyama might end up being better than LeBron James. Why there's so much buzz around the French 19-year-old who just became the number one pick in the NBA draft. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Ukraine's counteroffensive is only just getting started. But the early assessment by U.S. officials who spoke to CNN is that so far, expectations are not being met on any front. It seems Russian defenses are more resilient than expected, and Russian mines and airstrikes have bogged down Ukrainian forces in some parts. 
 
Still, the long-term outlook remains optimistic. Ukrainian officials on Thursday pushed back, saying defensive lines in the east are holding and gains are being made, albeit slowly, in the south. Here's more from Ukraine's Prime Minister.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DENYA SHMYHAL, UKRAINIAN PRIME MINISTER: Counteroffensive is not Hollywood movie. It's not easy walk. Counteroffensive is number of military operations. Sometimes it's offensive, sometimes it's defensive. Sometimes it could be tactical pauses. Unfortunately, during our preparation for this counteroffensive, Russians were preparing too. So there is so much minefields which really make it slower to -- I mean, movement into their head. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Ukrainian forces have inflicted what appears to be a serious blow in the south, a missile strike leaving a key bridge to Russian occupied Crimea bally damage. The Chonhar Bridge is now closed to traffic and Kremlin-backed officials say it will take weeks to repair. One of the few crossings that connect Crimea with the occupied part of Southern Ukraine. And according to a former Ukrainian Defense Minister, shutting this bridge down now creates a major choke point for Russian supply lines. Details now from CNN's Matthew Chance. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): On Russian state television news of the latest Ukrainian strike, punching through a key bridge to Crimea. A military supply routes the anchor says which Ukraine hit with missiles to cut off. 
 <br>[00:25:02]
 
Instead of hiding the bad news, Russia is using it to bolster support. 
 
The Kremlin appointed governor of occupied Kherson was quickly at the siege to condemn the attack and blame the West. 
 
It's another senseless act by the Kyiv regime at the behest of London, he says. It will make no difference to the result of the special military operation, what Russia calls its war. Along the vast frontlines in Ukraine, a much-anticipated
 
 counteroffensive is seeing fierce but limited fighting. Some Ukrainian officials are pushing back hard, though, on Western assessments to CNN that expectations are not being met.
 
One senior Ukrainian official telling CNN it's still way too early to assess the overall trajectory of what the official says was shaping operations. The real counter offensive, the official told CNN, has not even begun yet in earnest. 
 
Still, the Russian military is taking credit for holding Ukrainian forces back. Releasing dramatic images of what they say our enemy positions being pounded, characterizing the Ukrainian push as unsuccessful. 
 
The Kremlin though is sending an unusual note of caution. Ukraine's offensive potential has not yet been exhausted, the Russian President warns his defense officials. It's strategic reserves he says have not all been activated. It is a recognition of what Ukrainian officials also insist. This battle may be slow, but it is far from over. Matthew Chance, CNN, Kyiv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Moscow, Thursday, setbacks in two separate court case for an American journalist and a Russian opposition leader. Wall Street Journal Reporter Evan Gershkovich lost an appeal to end his pretrial detention while he awaits trial. 
 
Gershkovich faces up to 20 years in jail on spying charges, which he denies. The U.S. ambassador to Moscow, says she's extremely disappointed with the court's ruling. And Russia's Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal by Alexei Navalny, who wanted access to writing materials while he is in prison. 
 
The opposition leader is facing a new trial on charges of extremism, which could lead to another 30 years behind bars. He's already serving more than 11 years on fraud charges which he and his supporters claim are politically motivated. 
 
Millions of voters in Sierra Leone are expected to head to the polls Saturday to choose the next president. The election is being held amid an economic crisis, with inflation and unemployment soaring and the currency plunging. CNN's Stephanie Busari has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN DIGITAL SUPERVISING EDITOR, AFRICA: These Sierra Leoneans are calling out for change, as the West African state heads to the polls to elect a new president on June 24. 
 
Among the issues, citizens are battling a soaring cost of living and massive unemployment, with inflation sitting at around 37% in April, according to the IMF. 
 
AMINATA FANTA KOROMA, OPPOSITION PARTY MEMBER: The country is just too tight and we are not seeing any prospects that these things are coming down because the dollar inflation is very high. Everything is very high.
 
BUSARI: Around 3.3 million, less than half the population are registered to vote in this, the fifth election since the end of the country's brutal, decade long civil war 21 years ago. 
 
Hunger at the current state of the country, spilling over in August last year. With more than 20 people killed in antigovernment protests across Sierra Leone. Incumbent President Julius Maada Bio's view of those protests. 
 
JULIUS MAADA BIO, PRESIDENT OF SIERRA LEONE: This was not a protest against the high cost of living. The chant of the insurrectionists was for a violent overthrow of the democratically elected government. 
 
BUSARI: Former Sierra Leonean child soldier turn author human rights activist Ishmael Beah says the mood in the country is not hopeful. 
 
ISHMAEL BEAH, AUTHOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVIST: Even as we lead towards election, the security situation has gotten tense in the way that you have more presence of armed police, armed military that are basically patrolling the streets as if going to an election is also going to war. 
 
BUSARI: Among the 12 candidates challenging Maada Bio in the general election is the leader of the position All People's Congress Party, Samura Kamara. 
 
SAMURA KAMARA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE (through translation): I want to call all Sierra Leoneans to come out and vote on the 24th, come rain, come sunshine, come to the usual barrage of bullets, or come anything else, to protect their votes. 
 <br>[00:30:10]
 
BUSARI: The 72-year-old former cabinet minister is facing trial on corruption charges which he denied. If convicted, Kamara would be barred from holding public office. He appeared before court in April, but the case has been adjourned until after the general election. 
 
59-year-old Maada Bio seen here dancing in the rain on the campaign trail, has promised, if reelected, to feed the nation and create half a million jobs for young people in five years. For the people of a country that has faced so much tragedy, its future is by no means decided. Stephanie Busari, CNN, Lagos. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Still ahead here on CNN, more on our top story, the Titan submersible disaster and the families now in mourning after the death of their loved ones. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back. I'm John Vause. You're watching CNN Newsroom. U.S. officials say all five people on the Titan submersible were killed when it suffered a catastrophic implosion. News ends a huge day long -- days long international effort involving numerous ships and aircraft. 
 
Contact was lost Sunday while diving to the wreck of the Titanic nearly four kilometers deep on the floor of the North Atlantic Ocean. That's where a search team found debris from the submersible. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAUGER: This morning, an ROV or Remote Operated Vehicle from the vessel Horizon Arctic discovered the tail cone of the Titan submersible approximately 1600 feet from the bow of the Titanic on the seafloor. The ROV subsequently found additional debris in consultation with experts from within the unified command, the debris is consistent with the catastrophic loss of the pressure chamber. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The unanswered question now is what caused the implosion and what could have been done to prevent it? The five passengers on board the Titan were not just adventurers and explorers, but they're also fathers and sons and their deaths have left families and friends mourning and grieving their loss. CNN's Paula Newton has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAUL-HENRI NARGEOLET: The 24th of July 1987 was my first dive to the Titanic with two team members and it was an unforgettable moment. 
 <br>[00:35:02]
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That was Paul-Henri Nargeolet, a 77- year-old Frenchman who made more than 30 dives to the Titanic, earning him the nickname Mr. Titanic. David Gallo is Nargeolet's close friend, colleague and an oceanographer himself. 
 
DAVID GALLO, OCEANOGRAPHER AND FRIEND OF NARGEOLET: I'm sure he did everything he could or would do everything he could do to make sure that they had every chance of surviving whatever it was. 
 
NEWTON: For Stockton Rush, the Chief Executive of the firm behind the dive who was also on board, the experience of those involved was always crucial to the mission. 
 
STOCKTON RUSH, CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND FOUNDER OF OCEANGATE: There are five individuals can go on each dive. Three of those are what we call mission specialists. So those are the folks who help finance the mission. But they are also active participants. So why we're not a fan of the tourist term is because these are crew members. 
 
NEWTON: One of those crew members is the British billionaire and explorer Hamish Harding, part of two record breaking trips to the South Pole, he also held a world record for the fastest circumnavigation of the globe via both poles. Last year he went into space with Jeff Bezos Blue Origin company. HAMISH HARDING: I've always wanted to do this and the sheer experience
 
 of looking out of the window is something I'm looking forward to. 
 
NEWTON: In a post on social media before the dive he described feeling proud to be part of the Titans expedition. 
 
Also on-board Shahzada Dawood, who comes from one of Pakistan's richest families and lived in the U.K. with his wife and two children. He'd taken his son, Sulaiman, just 19 years old along with him. A family statement asked for privacy and prayers when the sub went missing. 
 
A search that was called impossible now over. The Titan and the five people on board now lie at the bottom of the ocean. Paula Newton, CNN, Halifax. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: A heat wave across China is setting new record high temperatures. Beijing recorded 41.1 degrees Celsius Thursday, a record for June. Other cities in the north also saw record high temperatures for the month of June. 
 
Others saw their hottest day on record. The forecast is predicting above average temperatures through next week. So there is more misery to come. 
 
Half a million villages in India are suffering through severe weather of a different kind that would be dangerous flooding. And CNN Meteorologist Chad Myers has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: A risky walk through a flooded road. These women and their children trekked barefoot across worn out bridges and away from their homes. They're running from flooding in northeastern India that disaster officials say has affected at least 780 villages and up to 120,000 people, some of them are farmers. Hectares of farmland that once kept them afloat are now underwater. Their houses, schools and belongings too. 
 
JYOTISH RAJBONGSHL, ASSAM RESIDENT (through translation): I have no one to help me. My wife and I are now alone. I am sick and if I go to my house (which is flooded) I will fall down. The flood water has damaged my home and most of my belongings. 
 
MYERS: Some managed to save their livestock, hens, goats and cows. Assam State has set up 31 relief camps to house over 2000 displaced people, including over 400 children. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): At least 200-300 people are there staying in makeshift tents here. 
 
MYERS: Flooding in Assam this time of year is not uncommon. Humanitarian organizations say nearly 2000 people died between June and September last year due to monsoon flooding across India. Chad Myers, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Time for a brief pause here on CNN. Back in a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:40:47]
 
VAUSE: He's being called a Future Face of the NBA. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The San Antonio Spurs select Victor Wembanyama from Montar France. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: 19-year-old Victor Wembanyama was the number one pick in the NBA draft Thursday night by the Antonio Spurs. He's more than 2.2 meters tall, about 7 feet, the most hyped prospect since LeBron James. And for him, this is a dream come true.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VICTOR WEMBANYAMA, 2023 NO. 1 DRAFT PICK: Accomplishing something that I've been dreaming of, you know, my whole life. Hearing that sentence from Adam Silver, you know, I've dreamed of it so much, you know, I got crying. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Fans in San Antonio were not crying. They were thrilled. When Wembanyama played professional basketball in France the last three seasons, he led the French league in scoring, rebounding and blocked, became their youngest regular season MVP. He's the third international player to be selected number one in the NBA draft without playing for a U.S. High School or college. China's Yao Ming and Italy's Andrea Bargnani are the other two.
 
Well, the two of the richest and most powerful men in the world. And now it seems they're ready to come to blows to settle their long- standing rivalry. Twitter owner and Tesla CEO Elon Musk recently tweeted he'd be up for a cage fight with Mark Zuckerberg, the head of Meta and creator of Facebook. 
 
Zuckerberg fired back, posting a screenshot of Musk's tweet with the caption, send me the location. It's unclear whether they're serious or whether this is a joke. Bookmakers have Zuckerberg the odds-on favorite. 
 
Musk may have the size and the reach, but Zuckerberg won gold and silver medals in jiu-jitsu tournaments last month. Is there a third choice, perhaps? 
 
I'm John Vause. Michael Holmes, begin at the top of the hour with more CNN Newsroom. World Sports starts after the break. Hope to see you right back here next week. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)