Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Soon: Biden Visits Selma To Mark 58th Anniversary Of Civil Rights March; Second Norfolk Southern Train Derails In Ohio; Fox News Controversy; Russia's War On Ukraine; Tennessee Becomes First State In 2023 To Restrict Drag Performances; New Study Shows Oscars Diversity Improved After Viral Hashtag; Albuterol Shortage Could Worsen After A Drugmaker Shuts Down. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired March 05, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:26] 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Hello everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
All right. Moments from now President Biden will arrive in Selma, Alabama to mark the 58th anniversary of the day known as Bloody Sunday. On this day in 1965, 600 people began a march from Selma to
 
 Montgomery, demanding an end to discrimination in voter registration. 
 
Marchers were beaten by white state troopers, marchers including the late Congressman John Lewis, as they tried to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge, an event that sparked outrage and helped rally support for the Voting Rights Act. 
 
CNN's Arlette Saenz is joining us right now. Arlette there in Selma for the event today. 
 
So the president is expected to make his own case for maintaining, restoring lost voter rights. 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes Fred, he is. The president will make his arguments against the backdrop of what was a brutal, yet very historic moment in the Civil Rights Movement. 
 
The president will be here on the -- to celebrate the 58th anniversary of Bloody Sunday, as you recapped, that moment where civil rights and voting rights activists crossed that bridge right behind me and were severely beaten by police officers, many of them white police officers. 
 
Now, the president is traveling here to Selma, the White House says in order to try to ensure that the history and the memory of Bloody Sunday is not erased from Americans' memories. But he is also expected to make the case for voting rights, which so far voting rights legislation has floundered on Capitol Hill. 
 
Trying to pass a new voting rights legislation was something that was really a core tenet of President Biden's 2020 campaign. But so far the legislation that has gone up to Capitol Hill has simply been unable to pass, including one piece of legislation that was named for the late Congressman John Lewis who was one of those marchers here on Bloody Sunday 58 years ago.
 
Now, President Biden, this is going to be his first time to Selma as president, but he has been here for these commemorations in the past, most recently in 2020 when he was a presidential candidate. He did not march at that time. He spoke at one of the historic chapels that is just a few blocks away from where we are. 
 
But that year was also the same year that the late Congressman John Lewis made his final appearance here in Selma around the Bloody Sunday commemoration. I remember being on hand for that and it was a surprise when he arrived here, and the crowd was simply electrified by the moment. 
 
The president hoping that coming here to Selma will allow him to reenforce his case for voting rights especially at a time when many activists have been frustrated with the White House and their inability to get legislation passed so far. 
 
Now, I also want to note that while much of the focus today will be on voting rights and remembering Bloody Sunday, the president is also visiting Selma for the first time since that devastating tornado ripped through the city in January. He may get a firsthand look as he's driving the site of that devastation. 
 
But in just a few hours we do expect the president to be making his case for voting rights once again. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Arlette Saenz, we'll come back to you as that happens. Thank you so much. 
 
All right. Turning now to another Norfolk Southern freight train derailment in Ohio. This one near Springfield, that's about 200 miles away from East Palestine, the site of the company's fiery train derailment and toxic spill one month ago. 
 
20 cars came off the track early Saturday evening. Nearby residents were temporarily asked to shelter in place out of an abundance of caution, that is. That order lifted earlier today. 
 
Norfolk Southern officials say there were no hazardous materials on board. Still hazmat teams from the EPA and Clark County each independently examined the site to confirm that. 
 
CNN's Polo Sandoval is following the latest developments for us. So Polo, tells us more about the train and what the federal response had been? 
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So Fred, that shelter in place order, that was lifted overnight when authorities were able to confirm that there was no threat to public health there. 
 
Now, exactly how they were able to come to that conclusion. Well, the local fire chief saying that there were three separate entities that independently looked at that scene that took place yesterday including the local hazmat team, also Norfolk Southern who says owns this train, and also the Environmental Protection Agency. All three independently were able to verify that there was no spillage. 
 <br>[14:04:57]
 
SANDOVAL: But those pictures, they're just incredible. Look at the mess that will have to be cleaned out too, Fred. Authorities also adding that there were at least four tankers that were identified as having non-hazardous materials. Two of them containing non -- rather residual amounts of diesel exhaust fluid and two others that were containing with (INAUDIBLE). It's basically a water soluble solution and that there were no, sort of any leaks.
 
Also this accident happened in an area with no protected sort of water source -- rather, it occurred in a place that was not established as a place that had that protected water source. So that's certainly good news. 
 
But nonetheless this is certainly going to be raising questions, Fred, about why this actually took place. 
 
When you look at the broader scope, the Federal Railroad Administration does report that it sees at least a thousand derailments a year. So certainly not unusual but this, given what we saw a month and one day ago, is certainly something that is going to beg a closer look in terms of they why this occurred. And this of course, happening as the federal authorities said that they were bound to see another derailment. And that's why the procedures, the practices, the designs when it comes to the rail industry had to be closely examined. 
 
Fred, back to you.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. That's a lot for one area to endure. All right. Thank you so much. Polo Sandoval, appreciate that.
 
All right. The "New York Times" is reporting today on just how panicked top brass at Fox News Channel were after the 2020 election. Fox was first to correctly call the battleground state of Arizona for President Biden. 
 
After election night the network held a Zoom call to discuss the Arizona decision, as well as how to keep from angering its conservative audience in the future. 
 
In a taped recording of that meeting reviewed by "The Times, a top Fox News executive argued that if the network had not called Arizona for Biden, its ratings would have been bigger. And some Fox anchors suggested viewer reactions should be considered before calling a state. 
 
CNN has not independently verified the contents of the recording. In a statement, a Fox spokesperson says in part, "Fox News stood by the Arizona call despite intense scrutiny. Given the extremely narrow 0.3 percent margin and a new projection mechanism that no other network had, of course, there would be a wide-ranging postmortem surrounding the call and how it was executed no matter the candidate," end quote. 
 
So this comes as Fox currently faces a $1.6 billion lawsuit filed by Dominion Voting Systems which its talent (ph) frequently criticized during the 2020 election. 
 
Elahe Izadi is a media reporter for the "Washington Post" and co-host of the podcast "Post Reports". Elahe so good to see you. So how do you think this reporting may impact how Fox News covers elections going forward? 
 
ELAHE IZADI, MEDIA REPORTER, "WASHINGTON POST": Well, it's unclear whether it's going to affect their coverage going forward. But what this call -- this Zoom call that took place a little over a week after the election shows that internally the network was debating how to approach elections going forward. 
 
And we also know in the days following they did fire, or let go, depart, two top people involved who were in calling that election. 
 
And so it's important to know that Fox at the time had developed this new way of projecting elections. So it did call Arizona first ahead of every other major news organization. AP Followed soon after. 
 
And so there was a question about what will Fox do in an election where it is very close and a Democrat prevails? I mean this call raises that question of whether they've already sort of changed their approach to calling elections when it is very close. 
 
We did have the midterms 2022, there weren't, you know, any contested races very close as far as who is going to hold the House or who's going to hold the Senate. But it raises the question of what internally are they doing or what will they do going forward. 
 
I'm not sure whether the revelation of this call was reviewed by "The Times", it did not come out necessarily, you don't know, as a result of this lawsuit. But I don't know whether the public knowing about this will impact how they cover elections going forward. 
 
Because we also have to consider their viewers, who is watching Fox. Are their viewers even aware that this call exists and how much do they actually know about the lawsuit and the revelations coming out about it? 
 
WHITFIELD: Well, we know the viewers of that network are very loyal and now they do know or perhaps they are now listening to or seeing the reporting of that call. Do you think that will in any way, you know, impact their dedication to watching that network? 
 <br>[14:09:50]
 
IZADI: I think the fallout today, you may see some folks, especially media watchers and other conservatives who were defending Fox for how it approached the election or were reticent to criticize it and seeing these internal communications from top, not just executives, but news anchors, hosts saying that, you know, perhaps other elements should have been considered when calling an election and that, you know, maybe we should have waited, maybe that would have bolstered ratings. 
 
But as far as their loyal viewers, you know, this call paints a picture, it adds to the picture that we already know about that internally there was a lot of panic at the network after the election in the days following when they did see viewers slip away. 
 
But now Fox is still the most watched cable network. They still have a very strong viewership there. And again, I'm not sure whether their viewers, their most loyal viewers are aware of all the details that we're discovering because you know, how much is Fox actually covering this lawsuit? 
 
Their media analyst said on his own program that he was prevented by the network from covering the lawsuit because the network was being sued and they didn't want him to cover it because of some sort of conflict perhaps. 
 
A decision that he disagreed with. So I always wonder, like how much do they know about what is coming out in these calls. 
 
WHITFIELD: So one has to wonder, you know, how worried might Fox be from this point forward about how it, I guess, maintains the appetite of its viewers, whether it stands to lose a good bit of its viewership to other perhaps alternative right wing networks. 
 
IZADI: In the days following the election, that was certainly a predominant concern and rightfully so. You know, there was a block an hour where Fox lost in the ratings to Newsmax. 
 
Now since then, they're far and away the most watched beyond their competitors on the right. But you know, the 2024 election is going to shape up to be very interesting in this regard considering that former President Donald Trump is winning and he's already taken very sharp aim at Fox and now Rupert Murdoch and other individuals based on what is being revealed in these filings. 
 
So if the question is of how is Fox going to navigate the primary season? You know, everyone is sort of looking at Florida Governor Ron DeSantis to see if he's going to run. And he's certainly a big favorite on Fox in terms of how much they cover him. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We'll leave it there for now. Elahe Izadi, so good to see you. Thanks so much. 
 
IZADI: Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Coming up, Ukrainian forces say they're hanging on to the city of Bakhmut despite an intense assault by Russian fighters. The latest from the battlefield next. 
 
And later, an unbelievable story out of Idaho, a moose attack caught on camera. We'll show you the video. 
 <br>[14:12:44] (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Ukrainian forces are still in control of a key highway in the eastern city of Bakhmut according to a Ukrainian commander. Russian forces led by the mercenary Wagner Group say they have the city all but surrounded. 
 
The fighting on the outskirts of the city continues to intensify and the commander described it to CNN as, I'm quoting now, "very much like hell". 
 
CNN's Melissa Bell has more from Ukraine. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: An increasingly desperate battle on the part of Ukraine to try and hold on to Bakhmut, the British Defense Ministry saying the situation for the Ukrainians is increasingly severe as Russia continues to pound the town and to throw as much manpower at it as it can, inching toward the town center.
 
Some four and a half thousand citizens trapped there as Ukraine explains though that every hour that it can spend trying to hold this town is important. It was its strategy back if you think to Severodonetsk and Lysychansk, holding towns as long as they can in order to try and degrade opposite Russia's ability to wage this war in terms of equipment and of manpower. 
 
And in this time -- this time as well in Bakhmut. The question is how much longer they can hold out, outnumbered as they are four to one, according to one soldier speaking to CNN and what happens next specifically to the civilians still trapped inside.
 
Melissa Bell, CNN -- Kyiv. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Back in this country, critics of a new Tennessee law call it an attack against LGBTQ+ community, the state imposing restrictions on drag performances. I'll discuss with a famous drag queen and Tennessee native next. 
 <br>[14:18:44]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Welcome back.
 
New pushback over a Tennessee law that will limit adult cabaret performances including drag shows. The law defines an adult cabaret performance as one, I'm quoting now, "that features topless dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators who provide entertainment that appeals to a prurient or similar entertainers," end quote. 
 
Protesting the law and showing solidarity with drag queens, the band "The Vandoliers" wore dresses for their show in Tennessee on Thursday. 
 
Tennessee is now the first state to restrict drag shows this year. But other similar measures are working their way through GOP-led state legislatures around the country. 
 
Critics call it a blatant violation of free artistic expression. But supporters of this new law say it is meant to protect young people. 
 
Joining us right now, a drag queen who is the co-host of HBO Original Series "We're Here" and a native of Tennessee, Eureka O'Hara. Eureka, so good to see you. 
 
EUREKA O'HARA, HOST, HBO ORIGINAL SERIES, "WE'RE HERE": Hi, Fredricka, how are you? 
 
WHITFIELD: I'm doing great. So how are you doing, knowing that this law is going to take effect July 1st? 
 
O'HARA: You know, I'm a little beside myself. I've been quite emotional, but I've also been getting messages and my phone has been ringing off the hook wanting know what I think. 
 
And the truth is I'm perturbed. I'm also a little disheartened with the legislation that's happening in Tennessee just because being a Tennessee native myself, it took a lot for me to feel comfortable and safe in that environment because of a discriminatory moral code that was brought on by other people on my peers. 
 <br>[14:25:01]
 
O'HARA: I think that drag is being singled out specifically, but also I think it's shadow harming trans individuals, which is also a big issue in our country having the legislation today (ph). 
 
WHITFIELD: And in fact, you know, you said it was difficult enough particularly in your home state. You got started doing drag, right, in Tennessee. It took you a while, as you just said, to become comfortable or feel safe. 
 
So you know, what did it take to reach that level of feeling comfortable and safe, being very proud of it, and cheering your story and now you're being met with this law as well? 
 
O'HARA: You know, honestly, I went to school at East Tennessee State University as a trans individual, and I walked on campus every day in fear for my safety and for my health, honestly in that sense (ph). And I was picked on, I was bullied and I was pushed around until the GSA actually started doing a drag show on campus where it brought awareness to queer individuals, female impersonation, male impersonation and also just the art form and the expression of it. 
 
It caused us to have a similar celebration around opposing gender expression versus identity, and it actually became a way that it was celebrated on campus. 
 
So it's fearful to me because this law would obviously ban even something like that because obviously it's a public campus. It's going to be another situation where that will no longer be able to take place due to this bill. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. You're describing it would be a gigantic setback. You know, and the language of this law is ambiguous enough that, you know, some are raising concerns about how it would actually be reinforced. What are you hearing from other performers? 
 
O'HARA: Well, I mean I think that it's just fearful. You know, up until a few years ago the small town of East Tennessee Bristol, where I'm from, that's (INAUDIBLE) area, never had a Pride event. And they finally did, and they had a great turnout. It was really good for the economy in that local area. It was also really good for the queer citizens as well as the allies in that area to be able to celebrate who we are, what we represent and also the equality that's in an area like that where you don't necessarily find it so easily. 
 
And that I think is what's going to affect, not only entertainers, but also the citizens of these small towns in Tennessee the most. 
 
I think that people that are supporting this bill are a little misunderstanding what it directly affects. It affects public view of drag altogether. It's also putting us in a box with strippers and nudity and exclusivity of adult entertainment when a lot of times drag performance can be very good. It can be family oriented. It can be very beautiful and artistic. And I just hate that all drag is being put into this box. 
 
WHITFIELD: Uh-huh. In fact, I mean more on that interpretation there, there are proponents who say this law is to safeguard children, with state Senator Jack Johnson who sponsored the bill say, I'm quoting him, "This bill gives confidence to parents that they can take their kids to a public or private show and will not be blindsided by a sexualized performance."
 
I mean elaborate on your point of view, especially, you know, hearing that word choice? 
 
O'HARA: Well, it's just interesting that they continuously use the fear tactic of children when it comes to LGBTQ issues or drag or anything in the making up. I think that it's a scare tactic to bring middle America or middle class America to attention to something that they normally wouldn't be affected by. 
 
I think that it's a way to get people on the bandwagon, right? As soon as someone thinks that their children are no longer safe, then of course it brings awareness and it sparks attention. 
 
But there's at no point in time or is there any type of statistic that can actually back up these -- I would say things that they're bringing to our attention. 
 
It's just -- it' unknown. And a lot of times our performances are actually leading people to a place where they can find support and they can find a place where they can belong. And a lot of times queer people and queer kids specifically already
 
 feel alienated in these small towns where there is a way of life, there is a moral code. Not laws, necessarily, but the way that you're supposed to live. Men are men and women and women and there's no in between.
 
But as we've learned and as we've grown as people, and our youth today more than ever are discovering their own diversity with themselves and the way they want to express themselves. 
 <br>[14:29:55]
 
O'HARA: And this is just going to continue to instill fear with those children not to be themselves, which we have learned does cause later issues, mental issues, drug abuse -- I mean, the numbers go on and on which is what I fear for the most. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. Eureka O'Hara, you know, we so enjoyed having you on today and joining us. Thank you so much. And I really appreciate your candor. 
 
O'HARA: Thank you. And God bless. Just know anyone out there struggling, you are not alone. We are here and we support you. I love you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Thank you, Eureka. 
 
And, of course, you can watch all three seasons of "We're Here" now streaming on HBO Max. 
 
We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Welcome back on this 58th anniversary of Bloody Sunday. You see President Biden there arriving in Selma, Alabama, to mark the anniversary of that day. He will deliver remarks shortly. And, of course, we'll bring that live to you as it happens. 
 <br>[14:35:03]
 
All right. Meantime, now, we're just one week away from Hollywood's biggest night. And after years of being criticized for a lack of diversity, the Academy Awards is now seeing notable changes in inclusivity. According to a new study released by the University of California's Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, diversity at the Oscars improved after 2015 when #oscarssowhite went viral. 
 
The research found that between 2008 and 2015, 8 percent of nominees were from underrepresented racial or ethic groups. But between 2016 and 2023, after the hashtag went viral, that number jumped to 17 percent. 
 
Joining us right now is USC associate professor of communications, Stacy Smith. She's also the founder and director of the USC Annenberg Inclusion Initiative. So good to see you. So, what surprises you the most about these latest
 
 findings? 
 
STACY SMITH, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, USC ANNENBERG SCHOOL FOR COMMUNICATION AND JOURNALISM: Well, I think there are two big surprises, Fredricka. First, we looked at the 95-year history. And when we look across all the years, it's absolutely staggering just how exclusionary this institution has been over time. Only 17 percent of all nominees have been women and the categories we evaluated drops to 12 percent when you take out acting categories, 6 percent people of color, 2 percent of nominees -- less than 2 percent actually women of color. 
 
And so, when we saw those findings, it was really important to look at how are things going more recently. And I'll tell you, when you see 16 out of 19 percent category, a 5 percent or greater difference in the percentage of people of color nominated at the Academy Awards, that's cause for celebration. Things are moving, albeit slowly, in the right direction. 
 
WHITFIELD: Right. While all people perhaps didn't know it in numbers, they were very much aware of the disparities. I mean, it was pretty obvious, right? So, so far, how is this study being received in Hollywood? 
 
SMITH: Well, I think very well. You know, we have people calling us interested in not only the findings, but the framing of the findings because we're making all of our research as accessible as possible, as transparent as possible so folks in the industry can really understand and see where progress is being made and where there is still resistance or a lack of progress so that greater efforts can be taken to accelerate change. 
 
WHITFIELD: So when it comes to, say, this year's nominations, no female directors were nominated in the best director category, even though films made by women were nominated in other big categories, like best picture and best actor. So, what kind of messaging is this sending, or what might be behind the absence? 
 
SMITH: Well, I think that's a great question. There's two interesting problems that we see happening here. We saw an uptick in underrepresented -- excuse me -- in women overall, underrepresented directors as well, working behind the camera in Hollywood across the top 100 films. And then we've seen a decrease in this most recent year. 
 
That we're seeing mirrored in the academy award nominations with a particularly glaring omission for "The Woman King." And so, I think it's largely the voting body is being exclusionary once again because this is a consistent message, particularly with women behind the camera in that director role, women of color being excluded when they have the talent, they're not given the same access to opportunity or accolades as their white male peers. 
 
WHITFIELD: So, does it call for an overhaul of the voting body, if that's even possible, if that's a contributor as to why the end result always seems to be consistent in that it leaves people out? 
 
SMITH: One hundred percent. Inclusion isn't something that happens overnight, not even in a single year. It's a consistent focus on making sure that access and opportunity goes to all talent, not just a homogeneous slice of the population which is what is still happening way too much in entertainment. 
 
We're seeing gains in television, gains in streaming, but in film, this prestigious art form, there's resistance to diversifying in every rank. So, yes, need to push on the gas and accelerate change rather than recede back or regress back to where the numbers have been. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. 
 <br>[14:40:00]
 
Very fascinating. Just a week away until, you know, "and the winner goes to". But, for now, it's still, you know, a very important conversation and hopefully the conversation moves to something else, action, right?
 
Stacy Smith -- 
 
SMITH: Indeed. 
 
WHITFIELD: -- thank you so much. 
 
SMITH: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. A family feels very lucky to be alive after a very close encounter with an angry moose, and it was all caught on camera. 
 
We'll bring that to you, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. You've got the see this video. An Idaho family is reeling after being attacked by an angry moose while snowmobiling in the Idaho palisades earlier this week. 
 <br>[14:45:03]
 
And thankfully none of them was harmed. 
 
KSL-TV's Shara Park has more on this wild encounter. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMIAH BIGELOW, WITNESSED MOOSE ENCOUNTER: While we were up by Palisades and we were just -- we were heading to hot springs. 
 
SHARA PARK, KSL-TV REPORTER (voice-over): A family snowmobile ride in Idaho Wednesday coming to a heart-sinking stop when a moose suddenly joins in. 
 
BIGELOW: The moose was trapped. We were trapped. 
 
PARK: With the sun behind him, unable to reverse, and his brother in front, Jeremiah Bigelow (ph) tried not to provoke the animal. 
 
BIGELOW: She drops her head and just charges right at us, and I said, oh, shoot.
 
PARK: The moose gave a false charge, but turned attention on his brother. 
 
BIGELOW: And he saw it charges, so he was over there trying to distract it because he could go straight and get out of there. 
 
PARK: As the moose moved forward, Jeremiah's brother had seconds to react. 
 
BIGELOW: He gets up on the sled and tries to make himself look big and hoping for a false charge. And then the machine is running at this point. He sits down and hits the gas and the snow machine died. He jumps off. As he jumps off it hits the snow machine. 
 
PARK: Shocked but alive, Jeremiah's brother scrambles back to his sled. 
 
BIGELOW: He stands up and you can see in the video for a second, they have this little old-fashioned western standoff where they're staring at each other. 
 
PARK: The moose eventually walks off, living the Bigelow brothers stunned. 
 
BIGELOW: It could have killed him. I mean, the amount of weight that came down on those handlebars that pushed the handlebars all the way forward. And so, it would have been pretty catastrophic. 
 
PARK: A close call for the Bigelow brothers who not only survived this wildlife encounter but the one they faced later that day when they got home. 
 
BIGELOW: Wives will be angry at us for a long time. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Because the snowmobile was damaged? Oh, my goodness. That was KSL-TV's Shara Park. 
 
So, for more on surviving these types of animal attacks, I mean, it does happen out there, you know, let's be real. Let's bring in wildlife biologist and conservationist Jeff Corwin. He is the Emmy- winning TV host for shows on Animal Planet and for ABC TV series "Ocean Treks". He's also the author of "100 Heartbeats". 
 
Jeff, so good to see you, joining us from Flamingo Gardens in Davie, Florida. 
 
OK: Jeff, you know, you kind of laugh at it, but at the same time, this is real. I mean, any time I've seen a moose that was kind of like seemingly standing still, was very docile. That one was walking maybe it seemed in a non-threatening way and then it was charging. 
 
So, what are you supposed to do when you confront a moose? 
 
JEFF CORWIN, WILDLIFE BIOLOGIST AND CONSERVATIONIST: Well, Fred, that's a great question. Good afternoon to you. 
 
These gentlemen are incredibly lucky, only to have the snowmobile take the brunt of the beating. This was likely a female moose. This was a cow moose. 
 
We often think of bull winkle, these docile, big, lanky-looking herbivores, but they are incredibly fast, they're incredibly agile. And when they feel threatened, they can be incredibly dangerous, especially females, cows, as we enter the time of year where they're producing offspring. 
 
These are creatures, Fred, that live in a world with grizzly bears and other predators. So a mother moose, a mom, will do anything to protect her baby. 
 
WHITFIELD: Of course. You know, I mentioned one I've encountered. It's not like I'm encountering them in Atlanta, Georgia. But when I go skiing in Utah, that's when I've seen moose, so just to clarify that. There are no moose here, anywhere near the set. 
 
So, the National Park Service tweeted this week, if you come across a bear, never push a slower friend down. A little bit of humor there. They tend to do that. 
 
But that, too, is very serious. You mentioned, of course, a mamma bear, mamma moose, fierce. But, again, as people are out there trekking in the snow in the winter months, they come across bear perhaps that are not hibernating. What do you do? 
 
CORWIN: Well, that's an interesting bit of advice from my dear friends at the National Park Service and the Fish and Wildlife Service. I am -- I am a very -- I'm not so altruistic. I have a buddy technique. 
 
So, Fred, if we're out there in beautiful Montana and we see a grizzly bear, I don't have to out run that grizzly, I can't outrun it, but as long as I can outrun you, Fred -- 
 
WHITFIELD: No, no, just don't push me down. 
 
CORWIN: I don't mean to throw you under the grizzly bear there. 
 
So, the truth is, though, it really isn't a laughing matter, especially this time of year. Grizzly bears, especially the moms, can be very fierce when it comes to defending their offspring because not only do they have to deal with the threats of potential predators for their offspring, their number one predator, believe it or not, people are often surprised by this, are other bears, because a boar bear, a male bear will often kill the cubs so the female will come back into season to breed again so she can carry his babies. [14:50:03]
 
So, these are limited resource environments. You never want to get in between a bear and a moose and their exits. You never want to get between a bear and a moose and their babies. You are asking for trouble. 
 
WHITFIELD: No, it's -- that whole survival of the fittest in a very different way. 
 
All right. Jeff Corwin, so good to see you. Thank you so much. We'll continue to watch your shows, read your books, because you're all over and we are happy for that. I'm glad you could be with us.
 
CORWIN: Thank you, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: Thank you so much. 
 
All right. This week's "Off the Beaten Path". Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Welcome to Midway, Utah, 30 minutes from Salt Lake City. We are here for a snow shoeing adventure, the destination of which, unlike any other in the world. 
 
We're going to end up in bathing suits down there at the Homestead Caldera, also known as the Utah crater for a paddle board yoga session. 
 
From the outside, it just looks like a big hill covered in snow. There's an entrance inside of this hill. So, you walk in, there's a hallway, the steam hits you in the face and you're like what is this in the middle of the winter, this warm space inside of the hill? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Good balance. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This paddle board yoga experience, where else can you do it on a hot spring in a big cave. There's a big hole in the roof letting in natural night, and the weather is Caribbean blue. It is idyllic. 
 
CRAIG SIMMONS, UTAH CRATER: Here at Utah Crater, you're welcome to enjoy the 95-degree geo-thermally heated mineral rich water and let people just soak and float and just relax. We also have snorkeling equipment and also try scuba diving. They can take a class and go home fully certified. The actual depth is 65 feet. 
 
So, you can come out for a week and go skiing and in the evening scuba dive. It's quite unique and quite different. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:56:26] WHITFIELD: Concern is mounting around an ongoing shortage of a medicine that's often used to treat people with breathing problems. The drug albuterol has been on the FDA's shortages list since October. Some doctors are worried that the recent shutdown of a major supplier could cause strain on hospitals. 
 
CNN health reporter Jacqueline Howard has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: A shortage of albuterol liquid is likely to get worst. Now, this is the medicine commonly used for people with breathing problems like asthma and COPD, and it has been in short supply since last summer. 
 
Now, one of the many manufacturers of the drugs, Acorn Operating Company, has suddenly shut down and health systems are bracing themselves for a possible surge in patients with breathing problems who have limited access to the medicine that they need, and the manufacturer that shut down was the only company to make a certain bottled form of albuterol in children's hospitals. We'll be watching closely and the impact it might have on patients and hospitals. 
 
Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Jacqueline Howard, thanks so much. 
 
All right. When the mobile live game show app HQ Trivia debuted in 2017, it instantly went viral but success was shore-lived. The new short film "Glitch: The Rise and Fall of HQ Trivia", takes viewers behind the camera and the coding to reveal an inside look at the spectacular pop culture phenomenon. 
 
Our Rahel Solomon has a preview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Before Wordle or Spelling Bee, everyone with a mobile device was playing HQ Trivia. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It is that time once again, the quizzing hour is upon us. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People played it on the subway, at home, at work, in the bar. 
 
SOLOMON: The game show on your phone. 
 
JOSH, HQ TRIVIA PLAYER: What I really enjoyed about HQ Trivia was being able to interact with the app, be a part of the show. 
 
SOLOMON: Originally hosted by Scott Rogowsky -- 
 
SCOTT ROGOWSKY, HQ TRIVIA HOST: Aka the Trap Trebek, aka the quiz daddy. 
 
SOLOMON: HQ Trivia went live twice a day, asked 12 questions and delivered cash prizes. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The first time I won HQ Trivia, it was 8 cents and I was so excited about that 8 cents, I was bragging about it to everyone I knew. 
 
STEPHEN, HQ TRIVIA PLAYER: I won it a few times. I would imagine my collective winnings as probably somewhere around $6. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I play twice a days HQ Trivia. Total winnings, $10,000. 
 
SOLOMON: The number of live players skyrocketed from a few hundred to 1 million, to more than 2 million a day in just a matter of months. 
 
JOSH: For a moment it was pure nirvana. 
 
SOLOMON: But as quickly as the phenomenon exploded -- it all came crashing down. 
 
LEAH, HQ TRIVIA PLAYER: The timeline of HQ seems very short lived. I remember thinking that this was going to be the future of gaming, the future of companies making money. It was just the perfect way to get people to connect and engage with something. 
 
SOLOMON: The new CNN film "Glitch" reveals the drama and tragedy -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thirty-four-year-old Colin Kroll was pronounced dead.
 
SOLOMON: -- that led to the viral app's downfall. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It just got so popular. That might be part of the reason why the game was always crashing. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The way in technology firms approach their operations is ready, fire, aim. If there's a little collateral damage, you know, so be it. 
 
SOLOMON: A number of HQ Trivia imitators popped up in its wake. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Welcome, welcome, welcome, welcome to confetti. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Welcome to the Q Live Trivia Game Network.