Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Trump Faces 37 Criminal Counts In Detailed Indictment; Ukrainian Offensive Underway South Of Zaporizhzhia; Missing Children Found After 40 Days In The Amazon; State Assemblymember Reggie Jones- Sawyer (D-CA) Discusses CA Governor's Proposal For Constitutional Amendment For Gun Control; Soon: Manchester City To Take On Inter Milan; Grandma & Grandson Visit Every U.S. National Park. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired June 10, 2023 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:00:00]
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Natalee's mother Beth was right in front of me. Her legs were crossed, her hands were folded. She was watching his every move. Now originally there was going to be a Dutch interpreter for Joran. But then he then just said to in court, my English is actually perfect. I really don't think it's necessary. The hearing preceded. When I first got here to Birmingham, I went to Mountain Brook which is the suburb that Natalee was born and raised in.
 
The people there tell me they want justice for Natalee's family, and they believe that court here in Birmingham, may be the first step.
 
Jean Casarez, CNN, Birmingham, Alabama.
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Saturday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. And we're now just an hour away from Donald Trump speaking publicly for the first time since the U.S. Justice Department unsealed its historic indictment against the former president. The DOJ laid out its case in stunning detail charging Trump on 30 -- with 37 counts including 31 counts of willful retention of National Defense Information.
 
The 49-page indictment includes new details about how Trump allegedly took classified documents to Mar-a-Lago after leaving office in 2021. Then resisted the government's attempts to retrieve those materials. Special Counsel Jack Smith also releasing new photos showing the scope of the investigation including photos of boxes containing classified markings at locations around Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort including a bathroom and a ballroom.
 
Trump left New Jersey earlier today in route to speak at GOP conventions in both Georgia and North Carolina. CNN's Kara Scannell and Randi Kaye are both in Miami ahead of Tuesday's scheduled court appearance. So Kara, you first how to prosecutors get to this point of charging a former president with federal crimes for the first time ever? KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Fred. A historic first of these charges that were announced this week. I mean, what we know from this indictment and from the investigations this really began right when the former President left office back in 2020. He left according to the indictment, and he brought boxes of documents with him to his home here in Florida at Mar-a-Lago.
 
It was only over the next year  or so that the National Archives discovered that some classified documents were missing. And that is when they started asking questions. The Department of Justice got involved last May. They sent a subpoena on May 11th of 2022 of seeking any classified documents that the former president had. Now, according to the indictment, that has been some of this obstructionist conduct began taking place because it was almost immediately after that, that the former president met with his attorney and his attorney told them that he had to return, you know, he had to comply with the subpoena by June 2nd.
 
So, over the next three weeks, according to prosecutors, Trump met with one of his aides, Walt Nauta who was also charged in this indictment and that is when Nauta began moving boxes. He moved the first box on May 22nd. Trump then meets with his lawyer the following day as they're discussing complying with a subpoena and tell some wouldn't it be better if we just told them we don't have anything here.
 
And then Trump decided to delay his summer break where he usually returns to his home in Bedminster, New Jersey for the summer. He decided he wanted to stay at Mar-a-Lago while this review was underway, you know, then from there we see not a removing three boxes the following day. On May 30th, Nauta and Trump speak briefly. After that call Nauta removes another 50 boxes.
 
And then on June 1st, he removed another 11. So total, Nauta remove 64 boxes from a storage room at Mar-a-Lago. Some of those boxes go to Trump's residence, you know, then it is on June 2nd, the day that Trump is meeting with his attorney where his attorney is now having to go over these documents, look to records that comply with this subpoena. So he reviews 30 documents that were left in the storage room and finds that there were 38 documents that had classified markings on them.
 
And according to an indictment, Trump tells his attorney if there is anything really bad in there, luck it out. That is one of the things that the prosecutors say was some of this obstructionist conduct. Now it was the next day on June 3rd that the Department of Justice and FBI were coming to obtain those documents from the attorney. It's also that same day that a separate Trump attorney certified to the FBI, that she had reviewed all the materials and that everything was turned over.
 
And during that meeting when the FBI and DOJ prosecutors were at Mar- a-Lago Trump popped in because again, he delayed his vacation and told them that he was an open book. Well, prosecutors saying that clearly, he wasn't -- they go through in this 40-plus page indictment. A number of the steps that they say were part of this obstructionist conduct, and Trump has said that he will plead not guilty when he has rained in the courthouse just behind me on Tuesday, Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: OK. And Randy also there in Miami. I mean, folks cannot forget what they saw in New York just a couple of months ago when Trump was arraigned there and had his court appearance. 
 <br>[13:05:05]
 
So, what is it likely to look like there in Miami?
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fred, it's certainly all hands on deck come Tuesday. And as they prep for Tuesday for the former president's appearance here at the federal courthouse in Miami, this is really a coordinated effort, Fred. The Secret Service will be on hand. Of course, looking after the former president. Then you have Miami Police who will be in charge of road closures and any detours.
 
And then you also have the FBI and the U.S. Marshals. And it's unclear at this point where the former president will be staying on Monday night ahead of his court appearance. But wherever it is, I understand from law enforcement that there will be some type of exclusive route for him to get here to the courthouse. Also, around the courthouse, there will be a perimeter. There is a lot of -- certainly a lot of people expected here.
 
I've spoken with his supporters earlier in the week at Mar-a-Lago and they told me they plan to have a huge group here to support the former president. They've also done a threat assessment here, Fred, we know that at the courthouse, they haven't found any credible threats. And they've been looking at social media, looking for any intelligence where they -- that they might need to act on.
 
And of course, they're looking out for the one key thing which is a call to action, making sure that nobody is going to instigate something like a January 6 event here in Miami. As far as when the president -- the former president gets here, it's unlikely he will come through the front door of this Miami courthouse. He will likely go through a back door side door and then tunnel through underneath this courthouse to get up to that courtroom for the arraignment.
 
They certainly don't want him around all the protesters and supporters here. They want to make sure he's safe and they want to make sure that everybody else on the ground is safe as well. Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Randi Kaye, Kara Scannell, thanks to both of you. Appreciate it. So, at any moment, now, Donald Trump will be landing in Columbus, Georgia to speak at a republican convention before heading to North Carolina for another campaign stop this evening. CNN's Alayna Treene spoke with a senior Trump advisor to learn more about what to expect today.
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: I spoke with one of his senior advisors yesterday, and they told me they spent the good part of Friday working on his speeches, and they said that Donald Trump remains defiant right now. But that is the image that they're trying to portray. And I think we should expect to see some of that bravado during his campaign speeches later this afternoon.
 
But behind the scenes, the mood is shifting a bit here in New Jersey. I know that Thursday night, his team was really feeling emboldened by news of the indictment. They were looking at the show of force from Republicans on Capitol Hill and other conservatives spanning the airwaves. And they did think that this could offer them a political boost in the near term for his reelection campaign.
 
However, Friday afternoon, once the indictment was unsealed, there was a bit of a shift and I talked with some allies of Donald Trump and those who were with him and they said, the concern about the legal implications of these federal charges began to settle. And now I also think it's worth noting that on Thursday night, as well, we saw many members of Congress and other Republicans issuing statements of support for Donald Trump.
 
And notably, we saw far less of those Friday afternoon after we saw some of these charges. We also saw similar reaction from his presidential rivals, people like Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, and Nikki Haley who rather than defending Donald Trump, specifically, they railed against the Justice Department and argued that the government had become more politicized. But I think we're going to continue to watch how not only Donald Trump and his campaign will continue to react to this, both today and in the lead up to his appearance Tuesday at 3:00 p.m. in Miami, but also how the Republican Party is going to continue to deal with the fallout of some of these charges. Fred, back to you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Alayna Treene, thanks so much. Let's go now to former Assistant Special Watergate prosecutor Nick Akerman. He's also the former Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York. So great to see you, Nick. So, I mean, a whopping 37 charges. You know, that's pretty robust. What's your reaction to seeing this indictment and the manner in which it was spelled out in such detail?
 
NICK AKERMAN, FORMER ASSISTANT SOCIAL WATERGATE PROSECUTOR: Well, I think the way it's spelled out really makes it a very compact, easy to understand story that I think is going to lead to a conviction here. I think the evidence is laid out pretty well. You're going to get a lot of other evidence, of course, during the course of the trial. But if you look at this, it's a pretty simple case.
 
He took the documents, and then he basically kept them by hiding them and lying to the government. I mean, that is the essence of the government's case. And it looks like they've got him on tape, which really makes him the star witness in this particular trial.
 
WHITFIELD: So, it's not just allegedly taking them, allegedly not, you know, storing them in the proper manner but now, you know, we heard prosecutors alleging that he also showed people documents on at least two occasions.
 <br>[13:10:14]
 
This is how special counsel Jack Smith put it yesterday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JACK SMITH, SPECIAL COUNSEL INVESTIGATING DONALD TRUMP: The men and women of the United States intelligence community and our Armed Forces dedicate their lives to protecting our nation and its people.
 
Our laws that protect National Defense Information are critical, the safety and security of the United States and they must be enforced.
 
Violations of those laws put our country at risk.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WHITFIELD: So, what is this telling you about? What potentially is to come in terms of how the prosecutors are going to move forward?
 
AKERMAN: Well, I think what they're going to do is they've got a number of witnesses. You've got references to employees, one and two in the indictment, you've got references to attorneys, one and two. And all those people are going to be witnesses, there are a lot of people who are going to testify here. You can bet your bottom dollar that they have put just about everybody into the grand jury that knows anything about what happened at Mar-a-Lago and what happened with those records.
 
We don't know at this point, what that evidence all is going to be. One of the primary things that we don't really know at this point is what was the motive for Donald Trump first, to steal this material and two, to go to such lengths moving boxes around in and out of his storage facility and getting people to lie for him. Why did he do it? We don't -- we have hints, but we don't really know. And that's the kind of evidence it's likely to come out at trial.
 
WHITFIELD: And you think prosecutors will be able to answer the why?
 
AKERMAN: I think so. I mean, we've got some hints at that, just by virtue of what he did with that one document that related to Iran in trying to basically take down General Milley. I mean, he has said from the beginning, that he is the retribution for all of his followers. And the first person I think that he's trying to ensure that retribution for is himself because that is the one person that he always thinks about.
 
And I think what he's going to do is he's using -- his part of his motive was to use these documents for retribution, just like he tried to do with General Milley. 
 
WHITFIELD: So, this was a speaking indictment thus far your impressions on how the special counsel has been handling this investigation.
 
AKERMAN: I think he's been handling extremely well, very professionally put together the story in this indictment that really leads the jury to look through this and basically conclude only one thing that Donald Trump is guilty. What he did, which was very skillful was to combine Donald Trump with this other fellow, Walt Nauta as a co-defendant and co-conspirator. Because ultimately, what that does is it puts in a former president with a pretty low-level individual, who is a former military person who obviously has to know better about how to treat confidential and classified information.
 
And it's going to be very hard for the jury to convict Nauta without convicting Donald Trump. When you look at all of the facts and that Nauta was acting at the behest of Donald Trump hiding these documents and concealing them from the Department of Justice, you put those two together and it's conviction time.
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. About the same time you wonder, then, after you've explained his background, particularly if, you know, his conscience is also what led him to take some of these photos which ended up being some of the evidence that is now helping to build the case. So, you know, I wonder too, if you can talk to us about -- I know, you know, innocent until proven guilty. You believe, you already just said it, that you believe there will be a conviction here.
 
So, we're talking about the 37 counts, 31 of which, for alleged willful retention of National Defense Information and each of those has a maximum 10 years in prison. You feel rather confident that there's going to be a conviction. Are you seeing this former president is, in your view, going to be in jail?
 
AKERMAN: I think so. If you look at the federal sentencing guidelines, and you kind of go through the various factors, for example, you know, is he taking any kind of responsibility here? Absolutely not. He gets no credit for that. And was he the ringleader of this obstruction? Sure. I mean, he brought in other people. He tried to entice his lawyers into being part of it. He enticed Nauta into being part of it.
 <br>[13:15:03]
 
I mean, if you look at all of the various factors and it's in the federal sentencing guidelines that really interpret how these statutes are applied. He could very well wind up with the full 10 years.
 
WHITFIELD: Oh. All right, Nick Akerman, thanks for being with us. Appreciate your insight. 
 
AKERMAN: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still ahead. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau meets with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy during an unannounced visit to Kyiv as a Ukrainian offensive is underway south of Zaporizhzhia. We'll bring you the latest from the front lines.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: An incredible story of survival. Four children found alive in the Colombian jungle after more than a month living in the wilderness. The children appeared gone in weekend after missing for 40 days following last month's plane crash in the Amazon. Colombia's president broke the news on Twitter. Sharing a photo with a message, a joy for the whole country.
 <br>[13:20:07] Stefano Pozzebon joining me live now from outside the hospital in Colombia. How are they doing? And do we know anything more about how in the world, you know, what explains their survival?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN REPORTER: Yes, Fredricka. We know a little bit more today because just a few hours ago, the relative of the four children -- by the way, we are in front of the Central Military Hospital here in Bogota, the four children have spent the night in the building just behind my back and their family traveled overnight to stay close with them in this moment. As I was saying, one of their relatives, a great uncle that came out of the hospital and spoke with the press.
 
Here's what he said about how they accomplished such an amazing achievement or surviving for 40 days in the jungle.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FIDENCIO VALENCIA, GREAT UNCLE OF MISSING CHILDREN FOUND (through translator): When the plane crashed, they took out the tapioca flour and with that, they survived. And after the tapioca flour was over, they began to eat seed. Those are from the jungle.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
POZZEBON: So you see some tapioca flours, some seeds from the jungle. These are of course the indigenous children that grew up in the Amazon. That doesn't mean that their achievement is not less remarkable. The youngest of them, Fredricka is only 1-year-old. And the oldest who we imagined was maybe the leader of the group or looking after her siblings. He's only 13. The grant -- the great uncle also told us that he expects the children to stay in the hospital just behind my back for a few more weeks as they receive psychological and physical treatment. 
 
And just a few hours ago, the President of Colombia arrived here and went inside the hospital to meet with the children and bring it perhaps the hug and the closeness of the entire nation. This is a story that really has grasped that these nations imagination for the last 40 years -- 40 days. Sorry,
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Well, it's extraordinary. Those 40 days I'm sure it felt like 40 years for them. But, you know, we're all just happy to hear about their survival. I can't wait to hear more about how in the world they were able to do it.
 
Stefano Pozzebon, thank you so much.
 
All right. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau making an unannounced visit to Ukraine this morning. Trudeau met with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy in Kyiv where he was greeted with a hug. And at a press conference later, Trudeau announced Canada will join the multinational efforts to train Ukrainian pilots. The visit comes as fighting intensifies along Ukraine's frontlines. Officials won't say if the long-awaited counteroffensive has begun but Russia claims it is underway. CNN's Frederik Pleitgen is in a Ukrainian town struggling to survive on the frontlines of the war.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Aid deliveries in one of the most dangerous places in Ukraine. We're with the Howard G. Buffett Foundation in Orikhiv, the frontline town where the Russians say Ukraine's military is trying to punch through their defenses. Constant artillery and mortar barrages driving residents underground.
 
Yes, so we have to go downstairs in the basement because there's been a distinct increase in shelling. And while you can't really see the counter offensive of the Ukrainians here, you can certainly hear it and feel it as well.
 
In the basement shelter, leader Valery Kubushka hands out aid boxes to the mostly elderly residents, many traumatized, but resilient.
 
It's very dangerous here, but I got used to it, 72-year-old Olga tells me. I can already distinguish rockets by their sound. I calm myself down. I ask 71-year-old Nina (ph) if she thinks the counter offensive can succeed.
 
Yes, I know about the counter offensive, she says. We will be closer to victory. Ours will push them back step by step until they drive them out, until there is a complete victory for Ukraine.
 
But for now, the going appears to be tough for the Ukrainians. While Kyiv hasn't acknowledged major offensive operations here, U.S. officials tell CNN the Ukrainian military is facing stiff Russian resistance. This Russian video purporting to show a column of Western donated armor struck by Moscow's forces. And the uptick in fighting has made it nearly impossible to get aid into Orikhiv, Valery tells me.
 
VALERY KUBUSHKA, HOWARD G. BUFFETT FOUNDATION: Orikhiv is one of the most dangerous, dangerous areas in Zaporizhzhia region. Orikhiv, Preobrazhenka it's 24 hours bumped, 24 hours.
 
PLEITGEN (voiceover): But they have to get aid even to those too frail to make it to the distribution points. Grandma Polya (ph), as she's known here, can barely walk and refuses to be evacuated from her tiny house, even as shells keep raining down, her fate, she says is now in God's hands.
 <br>[13:25:05]
 
Will we survive or not, she asks, you're still young. May God give you health and help you to survive this war. It's very difficult for old people. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Orikhiv, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Onto Rome now where Pope Francis is expected to remain in the hospital as he recovers from surgery. Doctors say the 86-year-old is following a careful recovery program after he had an operation on his abdomen. CNN's Barbie Latza Nadeau has the latest.
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Pope Francis's doctor is very, very pleased with his progress telling reporters here at the Gemelli hospital that the Holy Father is doing better than they had expected. He's moving along at just the rate they were hoping for. But unlike in 2021, when he was in this hospital for his first surgery, he will not be delivering his Sunday Angeles and that's doctor's orders.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We suggested to the Pope to not celebrate the -- in the public tomorrow the Angelus --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Angelus prayer.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But he will privately in his own hospital room he will say the Angelus at 12:00. So anyone who wants to join him in prayer is welcome to.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NADEAU: But as his doctor said the Pope did not protest this. He knows that he needs to rest. He knows that he needs to work on getting stronger and healthier so that he can go back to work as usual.
 
Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN, Rome.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Coming up. The governor of California pushing for a new amendment to the U.S. Constitution to address gun violence. I'll discuss the details of the proposal with the California Assemblyman who introduced the joint resolution next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:30:55]
 
WHITFIELD: Frustrated with gun violence in his state and courts rolling back gun safety measures, California governor Gavin Newsom is proposing a sweeping solution. He wants an amendment to the U.S. Constitution to cover gun control. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOV. GAVIN NEWSOM (D-CA): In this country, we do have the power, the power to change things, to reclaim our freedom from fear. So today, I'm proposing a 28th Amendment to the United States Constitution to do just that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WHITFIELD: What would the 28th Amendment be? The proposed amendment includes raising the minimum wage to buy a gun, universal background checks, and barring civilians from buying assault weapons, among other things. 
 
Newsom's proposal is meeting some resistance. State Republican leaders called it a publicity stunt. And the NRA said Newsom's current gun policies make California a, quote, "beacon for gun violence." 
 
The CDC says California ranks 44th in gun-related deaths. That's one of the lowest in the nation. 
 
Reggie Jones-Sawyer is a California state assemblyman who introduced the joint resolution. He's also running for a seat on the Los Angeles city council. 
 
Good to see you. 
 
STATE ASSEMBLYMAN REGGIE JONES-SAWYER (D-CA): Good to see you. Thank you for this opportunity. 
 
WHITFIELD: Fantastic. 
 
Why did you want to cosponsor this bill? 
 
JONES-SAWYER: I represent south Los Angeles. I used to be a mortician back in the day during the '90s. I know how difficult and how challenging it is for gun deaths, especially in disadvantaged communities. 
 
We've got to do something. The mass shootings that have been going on in this country have been horrific. 
 
The fact that California has been very successful at keeping the numbers down because of the gun laws that we have is one of the reasons why we wanted to make sure that the rest of the country can share in the opportunity to reduce that number. 
 
WHITFIELD: So this is a proposed amendment to the U.S. Constitution. It needs to be ratified by at least 38 states, or two-thirds of Congress. 
 
Are you looking at this as a long shot? And if not, why are you encouraged that this actually has a chance? 
 
JONES-SAWYER: One of the things that we looked at is, what are the gun laws that most Americans believe in? 
 
As you look at the data and the polling, when you look at background checks, when you look at the fact that people would prefer that people have a higher age for when you have access to weapons, waiting periods, all that polled very high among American people, even in red stats states. 
 
And that shows us that the people want these sensible gun regulations. We've got to allow them the opportunity to tell their elected officials, no matter what, whether red state or blue state, that this needs to happen. 
 
We're hoping that the groundswell of support that comes from the people themselves will begin to move the needle for states to go ahead and give us an opportunity to vote on it in the legislature, in the U.S. legislature. 
 
WHITFIELD: The California governor made it clear that, you know, he wants the Second Amendment to remain intact despite trying to get this amendment. Why is that important, in your view? 
 
JONES-SAWYER: This was really not about changing the Second Amendment. This was specifically about enacting good legislation that will help reduce the amount of gun violence, especially mass shootings going on in America. 
 
If you look at other countries, look at other places, those numbers are very low. If you look at California, our numbers are very low. It's based on the fact that we have sensible, again, sensible gun regulation. 
 <br>[13:34:59]
 
If you look at the Second Amendment, it's about a regulated militia being able to be armed. Regulated, meaning that we're striving real hard to ensure that guns and especially weapons of mass destruction like assault weapons aren't given to everyone in the community. 
 
Those are for war, not for your regular home, on the street or even for hunting. 
 
We believe that if you talk to the American people and talk to them directly about what they believe is the best way to move forward with sensible gun regulation, it will happen. 
 
WHITFIELD: What are you hearing from your constituents in downtown and parts of South Central Los Angeles? 
 
JONES-SAWYER: In south L.A., they've always been in favor of those gun regulations. I'm the chair of public safety. We've enacted some of the best gun regulation laws in America. 
 
Quite frankly, I wouldn't still be the assemblyman of the 57th assembly district running for District 10 if I knew that my constituents did not want this. My constituents are begging for this. They've been wanting this for quite a while. 
 
I'm tired of going to too many funerals. I'm tired of going to too many gun deaths. I'm just tired of it. It is now time for us to act and enact laws that will make us much more safe. 
 
WHITFIELD: We'll leave it there for now. 
 
Assemblyman Reggie Jones-Sawyer, thank you so much for your time. 
 
JONES-SAWYER: Thank you. And thank you for this opportunity. 
 
WHITFIELD: Still to come, we're just hours away from one of the biggest soccer matches of the year. Manchester City hoping to make history as they'll play Inter Milan in the Champions League final. We'll go live outside Istanbul's Olympic Stadium. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:41:04]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, welcome back. One of the three biggest days in horse racing is here. Racing has resumed for today's Belmont Stakes, the final leg of the Triple Crown. 
 
Racing officials say air quality conditions in New York have improved. They had postponed Thursday's schedule because of smoke from the Canadian wildfires. At one point, today's races were hanging in the balance. 
 
The industry has been under intense scrutiny after a horse died on the track at Belmont last week. Another had to be put down on the track where Preakness is held. And multiple horses died at Churchill Downs.
 
Well, some call it the Superbowl of global club soccer. In a couple of hours, Manchester City and Inter Milan will face off in Europe's Champions League's final. 
 
CNN's Amanda Davies is live outside Istanbul's Olympic Stadium. 
 
Amanda, Manchester City could make history tonight. What more can you tell us? 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN "WORLD SPORT" ANCHOR: Yes, they absolutely could, Fredericka. The city fans are here. The team have just arrived here to the stadium knowing they are just one win away from becoming just the tenth club in history to win the European Champions League and the domestic league and cup titles in the same season. 
 
The only thing is that they have to do something they have never done before. It's really become the Holy Grail since 2008, since the Abu Dhabi Group took ownership of Manchester City. 
 
It's the missing piece of the jigsaw puzzle. That is to win this one, the biggest prize in European club football, the Champions League. 
 
Their coach, Pep Guardiola, described it as a dream in his pre-match press conference yesterday. They are very much the favorites. They've really dominated towards the end of their season particularly. 
 
Talking about not really -- referring to years ago when they were beaten in the final. 
 
Pep Guardiola says his side are absolutely ready. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PEP GUARDIOLA, MANCHESTER CITY MANAGER: We are ready. I have the feeling we are ready. The players will give absolutely everything. (INAUDIBLE) Could not be otherwise, so. And, yes, go for it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) DAVIES: City has very much been talked about as the favorites. But Inter actually have won this three times before. Admittedly, the last was back in 2010. They are relishing the prospect of heading into this game as the underdogs. 
 
They, too, have finished the season strong. They've got clean sheets in five of their last six knock-out matches. 
 
And they have a coach who's relatively young in the coaching space, compared to Pat Guardiola. 
 
But in seven years in the business, he has led his side to seven of eight cup final victories. Not for nothing is he known as the king of the cups. 
 
WHITFIELD: Well, I mean, he's got quite the list of accolades there. We can feel the excitement from here. 
 
Amanda Davies, in Istanbul, thank you so much. 
 
In a new episode of "THE 2010S," we take a look at how activism transformed during that decade. We'll take a look at some of the biggest social movements that called for change, including, Occupy Wall Street, Black Lives Matter and "Me Too." 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[13:45:03]
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Witnesses say Brown's body lay in the street for hours. 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: People lost their minds. They could not abide by seeing somebody's child lying dead in the street like that and being treated like an animal. 
 
(CHANTING)
 
SIDNER: The feeling was one of fury. But what exacerbated it was the response by the police departments. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I remember turning on the TV and seeing an armored personnel carrier with a police officer with an automatic weapon trained on a crowd of nonviolent demonstrators. I knew at that moment all hell was about to break loose. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Wow. Seems like yesterday. 
 
See a new episode of the CNN original series, "THE 2010S," on a new era of activism, tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. Eastern, right here on CNN. 
 
Coming up, a seven-and-a-half-year-long adventure. A 93-year-old grandma and her grandson visiting all 63 U.S. national parks. I'll talk to them about why they did it and what they learned. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:50:40]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. This is a lot of fun. The journey of a lifetime came to an end when a 93-year-old woman and her grandson made a visit to the National Park of American Samoa last month. 
 
It was the final destination for Joy and Brad Ryan on their quest to visit all the nation's 63 national parks. A goal they set 7.5 years ago.
 
And along the way, Grandma Joy ventured into the history books as the oldest living person to visit every U.S. national park. 
 
And we are gifted today to have both of them join us to tell us about their excellent adventure, Grandma Joy Ryan and her grandson, Brad Ryan. 
 
So good to see both of you. 
 
Oh, my gosh, I'm just -- I'm going to have to live vicariously through the both of you. 
 
How in the world did you come up with this yesterday idea of a journey seven and a half years ago? 
 
Grandma Joy, you first. Where did this idea come from? 
 
JOY RYAN, 93-YEAR-OLD WHO VISITED ALL 63 U.S. NATIONAL PARKS WITH GRANDSON: Well, you can blame it all on Brad. It was his. He was the instigator of all this. 
 
WHITFIELD: So instigator, Brad, why did you come up with this idea? I mean, what was it about this, maybe, you know, this common love of the national parks? How did you convince your grandma to do this? 
 
BRAD RYAN, VISITED ALL 63 U.S. NATIONAL PARKS WITH HIS GRANDMOTHER: Well, you can see she's a little bit of a spitfire. She has a lot of life in her at 93. 
 
And when I found out that she had never seen a mountain or the ocean or any of these great American landscapes that I had taken for granted, I knew we had to write a new chapter in her life together. 
 
So I started researching the national parks, and the idea kind of took fire from there. I said, "Do you want to come along for the ride, and thankfully she's always been willing to say yes. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh. OK, that makes it even more beautiful that there were a lot of these, you know, natural wonders that you hadn't seen, Grandma Joy. 
 
Now we're looking at these beautiful images of you, on a speedboat, you know. Maybe you tell me what kind of boat. I mean, we see the Statue of Liberty there. We see you watching bear, salmon fishing, catching salmon. And there
 
 on skis? Are you on skis there, too, or traversing in the snowy caps? 
 
Tell me about all of these excellent adventures, and what was your favorite, Grandma Joy? 
 
J. RYAN: Well, I've always wanted to see the bear catch the fish in Alaska. I got to do that, and I enjoyed every bit of it. And bears have different personalities. Some are very nice, and some aren't very nice, just like people. 
 
WHITFIELD: That's right. Bears and people, we have a lot of similarities now we've just learned. 
 
So then, Brad, it takes a lot to plot this course. I mean, 68 national parks takes money, takes time, lots of modes of transportation. How did it all come together? How did you make this happen? 
 
B. RYAN: In the beginning, we did camping. We did ramen noodles and mandarin oranges. We just went by the -- the bare minimum. 
 
And then, over time, as people learned more and more about our journey, it really became a mission that was fueled by the generosity of the public. 
 
So we've had a lot of support from people who really were rooting us on, and they wanted to see Grandma Joy have all these experiences as much as I did. And so planes, train, boat, dogsled, we've done it all. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, my gosh. That's beautiful. 
 
Grandma Joy, did you ever worry about your safety? Did you worry about your wellbeing? You know, your next meal? You know, what if you didn't like the food? Any of those concerns that a lot of travelers always have? 
 
J. RYAN: No, I didn't have any concerns -- I'm about to the end of the road anyway, so I might as well live it up on the way. 
 
WHITFIELD: Living it up -- these pictures definitely demonstrate that. 
 
So for either of you or both of you, was there a favorite moment? Maybe it's not a destination or a place, but maybe an experience, a favorite moment? 
 <br>[13:55:01]
 
B. RYAN: Well, when we were in Colorado, we hiked across the great sand dunes. When we got to the top, that was when Grandma Joy decided that she wanted to roll down the sand dune. 
 
I didn't want her to do that because I thought she would get hurt. But I realized that there was nothing I could do to stop her.
 
And honestly, in that moment, I realized that no matter how old we get, no matter how many wrinkles we acquire, we're always young at heart. 
 
And she proved in that moment that we can always lean into the possibilities for our age no matter how old we are. 
 
WHITFIELD: That's so beautiful. 
 
Grandma Joy, how about you? A favorite moment? 
 
J. RYAN: Well, someone told us about the camp where they train the dogs for the Iditarod. So we went, and they loaded us in this cart and loaded all the dogs, and we took off down the road as fast as you could go. 
 
And we -- Brad was on the back waving a camera trying to take pictures. And we went around the corner, and you would not believe what you saw. They stopped the dogs, everybody hikes their legs and went to the bathroom, walked back out, and started back up again. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, that's great. 
 
Hey, Grandma Joy, you are aptly named. You are a joy. You brought joy, and it was joyful to be a part of this experience by virtue of you sharing it with us today. 
 
Grandma Joy, Brad Ryan, you all are amazing. Thank you so much. So glad you had a good time. 
 
B. RYAN: Nice to meet you, Fredricka. Thank you. 
 
J. RYAN: Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)