Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Hamas Says It Is Delaying Release Of Hostages In Dispute Over Aid Delivery And Palestinian Prisoners; Some Gazans Head Home During Temporary Pause In Fighting; Some Gazans Head Home During Temporary Pause In Fighting. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired November 25, 2023 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:00:22]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Hello again. Thank you so much for joining us. I'm Fredricka Whitfield in Atlanta, alongside my colleague, Wolf Blitzer in Tel Aviv. Wolf, we'll get to you in a moment.
 
We are staying on top of this breaking news right now. We're monitoring a delay in an expected handover of a second group of hostages held by Hamas. Sources tell CNN a dispute emerged over the amount of aid being delivered into Gaza and a selection of Palestinian prisoners being released by Israel.
 
Israel says it expects as many as 13 hostages to be released today. Several of them are believed to be children. A U.S. official says American citizens are not expected to be among those released today.
 
And as part of the deal, Israel says they will release 39 Palestinian prisoners. This marks day two have a temporary four-day truce between the two sides. Wolf.
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST: Fred, thank you very much. CNN has eyes and ears on the ground covering all the late breaking developments in this hostage exchange. Want to go to CNN's Jeremy Diamond. He is joining us now from the Kerem Shalom border crossing in Israel, not far from Gaza and Egypt for that matter.
 
Jeremy, give us an update on today's expected release.
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Wolf, by this time yesterday, the 24 hostages who were released by Hamas were well on their way to an airbase in Israel, and then onto hospitals across Israel ready to receive them.
 
But now, Wolf, at this moment today, we have yet to get any signs that these hostages have actually been handed over to the Red Cross in order for them to begin their journey on to Egypt, and then into Israel via this Kerem Shalom crossing, which is right behind me.
 
This is the road that we expect those hostages once they are released to cross into Israel from that crossing where those lights are behind me and then go down this road onwards to hospitals across Israel.
 
But as of now, Wolf, Hamas says that it is delaying the release of those hostages over disputes amid aid that Israel is slated to provide to Gaza -- to allow into Gaza, and also over disputes over the types of Palestinian prisoners that have been freed from Israeli jails as a part of this deal.
 
And so, Wolf, what we understand is that there are still very much ongoing negotiations, discussions to try and salvage this deal before the end of the night. This is a very, very tenuous situation.
 
And we know that although yesterday, things went quite smoothly in terms of that handoff to the Red Cross, then, going to the Rafah crossing into Egypt, and then coming into Israel via this Kerem Shalom crossing.
 
Yesterday offered a lot of promise that things could go right that every party in this deal could uphold their end of the bargain. And yet today, wolf, we are getting a sign of the fragility of this deal, of the ways in which small disputes can sometimes balloon and put the entire prospect of these hostages getting released at risk.
 
So, as of now, Wolf, it appears that there are still ongoing discussions to try and facilitate the release of these hostages. But for now, Wolf, no signs that, that has happened.
 
BLITZER: And Jeremy, just to be precise, based on what happened yesterday, we expect these hostages, once they're released to be given over to International Red Cross vehicles, and driven over to where you are in this Kerem Shalom border crossing. And then, from where you are, eventually, be taken to an Israeli airbase not far away, and flown to various hospitals up in Tel Aviv and elsewhere in Israel. Is that right?
 
DIAMOND: That's right. That is what happened yesterday. And, in fact, in addition to that, we also had helicopters that were waiting here on standby. At least one of those helicopters was a medical helicopter prepared to medically evacuate any of these newly freed hostages, should their medical condition warrants. An urgent evacuation to a hospital. That was not the case yesterday.
 
Today, I think there is still a question of whether they are going to go to that airbase before going onward to those hospitals. But clearly, the hospitals are the final destination. That is where we have watched these beautiful images over the last 24 hours, Wolf, of these newly freed hostages, including these children meeting and hugging their family members for the first time.
 
And we expect that tonight if this deal holds. If the -- if all parties in this agreement, uphold their ends of the deal that we will see similar scenes of joy tonight.
 
BLITZER: Let's hope we see that -- we see that little boy reunited with his father after all these weeks being held hostage. It was such a moving moment indeed.
 
All right. We're going to stay very close to us.
 <br>[13:05:02]
 
Jeremy, if you see any helicopters, you see any of those Red Cross vehicles heading your way, let us know right away. Let's hope that happens soon.
 
I want to go to CNN's Nada Bashir right now. She is joining us live from the West Bank. And Nada, what is happening where you are? I understand you're near Ramallah.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER: We are indeed near Ramallah, Wolf. And this is where many of the families of prisoners and detainees have now gathered hoping that they will see the release of their loved ones tonight.
 
But just as Jeremy was just saying, there is a lot of uncertainty. This is a very different situation to what we saw on Friday, where we had that initial list of 39 detainees and prisoners released quite early in the afternoon and giving some families real hope for the release of their loved ones.
 
Today, we've been speaking to many families who have gathered here, no master list (PH) has been released, there is no confirmation of who exactly is set to be released among 39 that we anticipate will be released.
 
Many have gathered here saying that they just want to be nearby in case it does happen tonight. Of course, a lot of uncertainty around the situation that we were earlier this morning at the Ofer Prison, where we did see three buses arriving, carrying Palestinians who have been detained in Israeli custody.
 
It's there that they will be held as they were yesterday, until there is concrete confirmation that those Israeli hostages held captive by Hamas in the Gaza Strip as agreed upon for today have been released and are in Israeli hand. But until that point, each Palestinians will not be released.
 
Now, the process has been clearly and carefully negotiated. They will leave the Ofer Prison upon that point via a Red Cross convoy where they will be sent and transported to their families and loved ones.
 
Now, yesterday, we did see enormous crowds, thousands of people gathering. Loved ones, family members, as well as locals coming to celebrate the release of those 39 prisoners and detainees, which included some 15 children. As you know, many of the children -- many of the people listed in that initial list of potential prisoners and detainees eligible for release, included many children, a lot of them between the ages of 16 and 18.
 
Many of them pose under administrative detention, meaning, that they have no official charges laid against them, no clear legal process on going for them.
 
Now, the hope for these families here tonight is that they will continue to wait and that at some point, they will see the release of their loved ones.
 
But clearly right now, there is a lot of uncertainty about what is set to unfold tonight.
 
BLITZER: Yes. certain -- uncertainty is the key word right now. I don't know what's happening with the hostages or these Palestinian prisoners.
 
Clarissa Ward is standing by. I want to get to you in a moment.
 
But Nada Bashir, thank you very much for that report. If you get new information, let us know right away. We'll come back to you.
 
Clarissa, you're there at the Sheba hospital, one of the largest hospitals in Israel in Tel Aviv. What are you seeing right now, where I assume folks there are waiting for Israeli hostages to show up.
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: They're waiting, they're preparing, and, in fact, if we just pan over here, you can see some of the preparations that are being made over there.
 
A man is basically they are putting up a large screen. That screen would be to protect the privacy of any hostages, particularly, children, minors, who would be arriving here tonight. They have been working on putting that up now for the past half hour or so.
 
And a lot of thought has gone in, Wolf, to making sure that after the trauma, the last seven weeks that these hostages have endured. That when they return here, it is going to be as smooth and as sensitive. A welcome home as is humanly possible.
 
You can probably also see behind me the erected more barriers here. They put up some Israeli flags. And we are expecting that if this release does happen and if the hostages are brought here to Sheba hospital, as it is expected, that at least children and any children who may be with their mothers would be, that they would be brought in via ambulance right behind me, and then taken in through that entrance there inside to the hospital's main wing for children.
 
We spoke with one of the hospitals directors, Wolf, and you know, just like the Schneider Medical Center, he talks about the amount of preparation that has gone into this. He actually told us that they have been doing drills for a month, in preparation for something like this to happen.
 
He said they gained out a lot of different scenarios they tried a lot of different preparations. He said that every family will have their own doctor, will have their own nurse, will have their own social worker, will have their own specialized trauma psychiatrists.
 <br>[13:10:04]
 
So, as we seen yesterday, every possible consideration has been taken into account. And now, there is a sense that people are waiting and watching, and hoping, and trying not to get ahead of themselves. But you can imagine, for the families of some of the hostages who are due to be released tonight, we believe that some of them are indeed inside the hospital waiting. What a painful, agonizing wait, this is. They are so close, potentially to being reunited with their loved ones.
 
And yet, there are still so many things that could derail with all these different moving parts, different parties, it's going to be a long night ahead, Wolf.
 
BLITZER: And it's such a sensitive moment. Especially, not only for the families, Clarissa, but what you told me yesterday, so sensitive for the doctors, the nurses, the military personnel, who were actually dealing with these hostages, who are being released, especially the little kids.
 
Share with our viewers a little bit of the guidance they're getting in how to talk to these kids.
 
WARD: Yesterday, the Israeli Ministry of Welfare put out a comprehensive set of guidelines or instructions for dealing with particularly the children, who are hostages.
 
I mean, yesterday, we saw a 2-year-old released, a 4-year-old released. A 9-year-old who had just marked his 9th birthday a few weeks ago in captivity. And we are, again, expecting children today.
 
One of the main things that the guidelines addresses is what Israeli soldiers should do when they take possession of these minors, if they're asked questions, which are very normal questions like, where is my mommy? where's my daddy? Where's my grandma?
 
And they're given instructions basically, don't answer the question. Don't tell them the reality of what's happened because in some of these cases, these children, they may have been made orphans, they may have lost loved ones.
 
We spoke to one representative, who works with hostage families who said that it was only really today at the Schneider Medical Center that a lot of these families were really learning about the full scale and scope of what happened on October 7th.
 
So, essentially, these guidelines tell these soldiers to answer to the children. I can't answer your question, Sweetheart, I'm here to take you to a safe place, and then, you'll be reunited with people you know, who can tell you more?
 
BLITZER: Yes. So, obviously, a very painful situation indeed.
 
Thanks very much, Clarissa Ward, reporting from Sheba hospital in Tel Aviv.
 
I want to go to CNN's Oren Liebermann right now. He's also with us here in Tel Aviv.
 
Oren, you're in -- what's -- you're over in a place of what's become known as Hostages Square. What's the mood there right now, as we await the second group of hostages we hope will be released? OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, there's a bit of a sense of breathless anticipation here. They know there has been a delay in the process. All the major Israeli T.V. networks are set up here. So, they're able to follow all the latest developments, and are waiting for that news that the process of transferring the hostages from Hamas to the Red Cross to Israel has begun.
 
So, they're very closely tuned in to what's happening on the ground, of course, here, but also what they learned about what's happening on the ground, with the second group of hostages that are set to be released. And that has made it difficult for many here who were waiting for the good news.
 
There are thousands here, perhaps even tens of thousands. The goal here was to make it 50 for 50.
 
50,000 here for this rally to mark 50 days in captivity. Just behind me a bit there is a large clock that's counting down the minutes it was at 49 days, 12 hours, some minutes, and just counting down. Many here who came in, took a picture of that to mark this occasion.
 
And as we've listened to the speakers here and listen to the singers, one of the things you hear over and over again ahkh-SHAHV, ahkh-SHAHV, ahkh-SHAHV. Now, now, now. A call to the government, a call to the negotiators to bring the hostages home now.
 
Not tomorrow, not the next day, make this process work faster. That's the cry coming from tens of thousands here. We've had a chance to speak with a few of the families of the hostages, who have come here, including the family of 10-month-old Kfir Bibas, the youngest Israeli in captivity, who is 9 months old when he was taken hostage. Turn 10 months in captivity.
 
And they say it has been an agonizing process day by day not knowing the condition of their loved ones. It wasn't just Kfir Bibas in that family who is kidnapped and who is held hostage. But also, waiting for this process of 50 hostages to play out. Because it's not all the names at once. Its names released on a daily basis.
 
That too is agonizing, which made it a difficult decision to be here. Here is what his cousin had to say to us earlier.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOSI SHNAIDER, FAMILY MEMBERS HELD HOSTAGE BY HAMAS: I came here today because my family asked me to come. I didn't want to be here. And -- from two -- for two reason, and I don't want to see that -- I don't want to look in the eyes of the other families, because I have a lot on my shoulders and I don't want to carry on -- to carry other people problem, it's not easy.
 <br>[13:15:08]
 
And the second reason is I don't -- I don't need to convince every -- anybody to be on my side.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIEBERMANN: So, here, a difficult moment for so many not just in the Square here, but also across the entire country, especially those with loved ones still in Gaza, waiting for an update, Wolf, waiting for them to learn that they are making their way out of Gaza, especially this group tonight.
 
BLITZER: Let's hope that happens. Oren Liebermann, Clarissa Ward, Nada Bashir, Jeremy Diamond our excellent reporters on the ground in Israel, were watching all of this unfold. Thanks to all of you.
 
Right now, I want to bring in Fleur Hassan-Nahoum, the deputy mayor of Jerusalem.
 
Deputy Mayor, thank you so much for joining us. I know you're incredibly busy.
 
But first of all, what do you make of this delay by Hamas in releasing the second group of hostages?
 
FLEUR HASSAN-NAHOUM, DEPUTY MAYOR OF JERUSALEM: Well, it's almost to be expected. We're talking about psychological warfare, one on one here. Yesterday, before the release of the first batch of hostages, I was honestly praying, we were all very anxious that it wouldn't happen because we know how they play. They've come up with some bogus excuses that they didn't get enough petrol, that they didn't get enough humanitarian aid. It's all a lie. This is part of the psychological warfare.
 
And at this very moment, very soon, the security Cabinet will meet in order to see how they're going to deal with this. The defense minister has already said that if you continue to play games by 12:00 tonight, by midnight, Israel will resume its attacks on the Gaza Strip.
 
And so, with these people, we're talking about a genocidal terrorist regime. It's -- you got to play hardball. They have absolutely no care for value of life, not their own people, certainly not our people. And so, here we are. Here we are.
 
BLITZER: Yes, that's less than four hours from here in Tel Aviv right now. Midnight. And so, this is obviously a very, very sensitive moment that we're watching.
 
Are you confident, though, Deputy Mayor, that these truths -- this truce will hold, and the expected 50 Israeli hostages will be released? Or are you losing all that confidence?
 
HASSAN-NAHOUM: And I'm -- I still have hope. From the commentators that I've spoken to tonight, they still have hope. But this is, again, this is what they do.
 
And remember, you've got these brokers in the middle, Qatar, you've got the U.S., you've got President Biden. These different powers have put their names on the line as well. We've got Egypt that apparently is very involved in trying to solve whatever crisis Hamas has created for itself. And so, we'll have to see how this pans out. I'm I still have hope that the second batch will be released. But let me tell you, it's so agonizing. I know this mother who has two sons. Now, she hasn't heard that her sons are on the list today, or tomorrow. And she is praying and hoping that they're on the list for the next day.
 
But imagine the agony -- the agony of the families who actually thought who already there, waiting for their loved ones. And they have been told that they don't know what's happening now.
 
And this is exactly what Hamas wants. This psychological terror on top, of course of the physical and emotional terror that they've already perpetrated.
 
BLITZER: What was your reaction? Deputy Mayor, when you saw the first group of hostages returned home yesterday, and reunited with their family? So, many of us who saw that, we were so hopeful and optimistic that things finally were beginning to move in the right direction. But what was your reaction?
 
HASSAN-NAHOUM: Well, I think like everybody else here in Israel, and many people around the world who've written to me, I was crying. I was crying from joy, but I was also crying from sadness, about these innocent lives having to have gone through such horrific, horrific trials and tribulations, but even was the people who are not out yet.
 
And yesterday, I saw the mother of Hersch Goldberg, who you've interviewed a number of times, and she is still hopeful that her son, who is a 23-year-old young man, also an American citizen, still some hope that the rest of the hostages who are not women and children will also come out. Their all-innocent lives that were taken indiscriminately.
 
BLITZER: Good point. Fleur Hassan Nahoum, the Deputy Mayor of Jerusalem. We will continue this conversation down the road. Thank you so much for joining us.
 
HASSAN-NAHOUM: Thank you.
 
BLITZER: Hamas says it is delaying the release of hostages today in a dispute over aid delivery and Palestinian prisoners. Our special live coverage from here in the Middle East will continue right after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:23:54]
 
WHITFIELD: A White House official says President Biden has been briefed at least twice this morning on the ongoing developments involving today's pending hostage release in Gaza. But Americans are not expected to be part of this second release.
 
CNN Arlette Saenz is in Nantucket where President Biden is spending this Thanksgiving weekend. Arlette, what else are you hearing from the White House? ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fred, the White House has been closely monitoring this anticipated hostage release today. But a U.S. official had told me that they weren't expecting any American citizens to be part of this second group that were expected to be released in the coming hours.
 
Though president and the White House have said that they are hopeful that, at least, three Americans will be able to get out in this larger group of 50 women and children that had been negotiated between Israel and Hamas, that it would include a two American, women as well as that young 4-year-old girl, Abigail Idan.
 
But the White House has been unable to provide a timeframe for when exactly they believe that these Americans might be get being released from their hostage situation.
 
Now, I'm told that President Biden has been briefed, at least, twice this morning on the ongoing developments by his National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and other members of his national security team.
 <br>[13:25:08]
 
Sullivan had also been briefing President Biden multiple times throughout the evening. But so far, we have yet to hear any reaction from the White House about this delay in the hostage release today.
 
But President Biden yesterday, when he spoke with reporters said that they had felt that the first day of the releases had gone well, that it was just the start of the process. But he did talk about the importance of needing to make sure that things remained on track.
 
He had said that he and his team would be in touch with counterparts in the region to ensure that the implementation of this plan would go as that they had outlined.
 
So, today, President Biden, the White House has said that they don't anticipate any Americans to be part of this release, and they're watching this expected release very closely.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Arlette Saenz in Nantucket. Thanks so much.
 
All right. Up next, we'll hear from displaced Gazans who are taking advantage of the truce to return home.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:30:08]
 
BLITZER: This truce agreement between Israel and Hamas that allowed for the first day of the hostages releases yesterday is also having a major impact already on the ground in Gaza where, for the first time in nearly two months, the fighting has stopped, stopped at least for now. 
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh explains how people inside Gaza are taking advantage of this temporary pause. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It's the sounds of life, not death today on the streets of Gaza.
 
For the first time in nearly 50 days, they're not running for their lives, no bombs raining down on them from the sky. 
 
(SHOUTING)
 
KARADSHEH: Some children can even smile again, even if only for a brief while.
 
But there's nothing to celebrate. Too many lives have been lost, so much gone, and they know there will be more.
 
The Israeli military dropping leaflets on Friday, warning people that the war is not over, it will soon resume, and telling them to stay away from Northern Gaza and its troops. 
 
(SHOUTING)
 
KARADSHEH: Many still tried to head back to the homes they fled with nothing more than the clothes on their backs to see what's left and grab what they can find, including their dead.
 
ABU AHMED (ph), GAZA RESIDENT: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
KARADSHEH: "We want to see what's happened to our loved ones. So many are under the rubble for 20 days," Abu Ahmed (ph) says. "We need to get them out."
 
AHMA ABDULLAH (ph), GAZA RESIDENT: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
KARADSHEH: "Who else will bury them? Who will bury our two-year-old and her father," says Ahma Abdullah (ph). "What did she do to them?"
 
(SHOUTING)
 
KARADSHEH: It was a tense scene on Salah al-Din Street, the highway linking north and south. People here saying Israeli forces opened fire on those trying to head back north.
 
(SHOUTING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
KARADSHEH: "We want to get to our homes. They say this is a truce," Mahmoud says. "We're civilians. They shot people. One was shot in the head and the other in the mouth."
 
(GUNFIRE)
 
KARADSHEH: Gunfire and the panic that ensued captured in this video geolocated by CNN. 
 
Asked about these shootings, the Israeli military says its troops are stationed along the, quote, "operational lines" of the pause in accordance with the framework of the agreement. 
 
But that didn't stop those determined to get back to what's left of their lives.
 
Sisters Hanin (ph) and Saira (ph), cradling their cats who've been through it all with them, say they know the risks, but they just want to go back home. Gazans know all too well what comes after this brief calm.
 
ABDULLAH (ph): (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
KARADSHEH: "What's this truce for, to hand over the hostages? What happens after they hand them over? What happens to us," Ahma Abdullah asks. "We feel like we are dead," she says. 
 
They hope it doesn't all start again, but all they can do now is prepare for a cruel winter ahead.
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLITZER: Jomana Karadsheh, thank you very much for that report. 
 
Our breaking news coverage of the Israel/Hamas truce continues. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:37:32]
 
BLITZER: We continue to stand by for the release of as many as 13 additional Israeli hostages in exchange for 39 Palestinian prisoners. Hamas is currently, though, delaying the handover. 
 
Sources tell CNN a dispute emerged over the amount of aid being delivered into Gaza and a selection of Palestinian prisoners being released by Israel. 
 
I'm joined by Avi Mayer, the editor-in-chief of "The Jerusalem Post." 
 
Avi, thanks so much for joining us.
 
What is your understanding of why today's hostage release is being delayed? 
 
AVI MAYER, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, "THE JERUSALEM POST": Well, Wolf, we don't actually know what it is that's making Hamas delay the transfer at this time. 
 
We have heard reports, as you have, of some dispute over aid or perhaps the identity of some of the Palestinian terrorists being released from Israeli prisons. 
 
Ultimately, in the Israeli understanding, this is just a form of psychological warfare. Inserting that Israel understands that Hamas is in charge here, that we will play to their tune. Israel, of course, says it will not do so.
 
And that if Hamas fails to hand over those hostages by midnight, that it will restart its military campaign in Gaza. We'll see what happens in the hours ahead. 
 
BLITZER: I'm wondering your thought, Avi, how are the Israeli people responding to the release of these hostages? As we know, some were released yesterday. Do most Israelis, do you believe, support the truce and the prisoner exchange? 
 
MAYER: I think Israelis are overwhelmingly overjoyed to see these hostages be brought home. We're talking about small children, elderly women, mothers who have been reunited with their families. That is cause for celebration. 
 
But I would say there is a tinge of sadness that not all of the hostages have been brought home. Of course, we're very anxious looking forward to the days ahead and we hope the hostages promised to us will be released.
 
And we'll see what happens as Hamas continues to play with the Israeli people. 
 
BLITZER: When this hostage-for-prisoner exchange, this initial exchange ends in a few days, Hamas will still have about 200 Israeli hostages in their control. 
 
Do you think there could be more deals in the near future to work out an arrangement to get all of these Israeli hostages home? 
 <br>[13:39:56]
 
MAYER: Let's first see that this stage actually plays out as we hope it will. There have been reports there could be additional releases of hostages in exchange for additional delays in this pause in fighting. 
 
But quite frankly, we don't know how many Hamas with actually produce. We understand Hamas has distributed some of these hostages to other terrorist groups in the territory. Some of them have gone missing, we understand. 
 
We don't know how many Hamas would be able to hand over to Israel. The estimates are 70 to 80 or slightly more than that. We also don't know, quite frankly, how many are still alive. 
 
So again, we have to get through this initial stage and then see what those future days might hold.
 
BLITZER: Given what you've seen so far, Avi, do you think it's likely that most of the civilian hostages being held by Hamas in Gaza will eventually be released? MAYER: I certainly hope so. I can't say. Again, Hamas is not a
 
 reliable partner. It lies as a matter of course. That's its modus operandi. So I certainly hope we'll see the release of these hostages. 
 
We have to understand, though, that even the military hostages are men and women, young people between the ages of 18 and 30 whose families are also awaiting their release. 
 
It might be that Hamas will demand a higher price for their release. There's precedence of about a thousand Palestinians being released for a single soldier. We don't know if that will happen here, too. I imagine it certainly will not.
 
But this is certainly something on the minds of many Israelis. There are many, many young people who are still being held by Hamas. And their families have no idea when they might receive their loved ones home. 
 
BLITZER: What do you think drove the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to this deal with Hamas? 
 
MAYER: I think there has been a tremendous outpouring of support in Israel for the hostages and their families over the past month and a half. The pressure has been immense for the government of Israel to reach any accommodation that would see them brought home. 
 
The prime minister has, indeed, met with several members of those families in recent days. I think that probably drove him to consider this as a matter of parity. 
 
But Israel has said from the beginning that number one in its order of priorities is to bring those hostages home by any means necessary. That is one of the reasons it engaged in this military campaign. 
 
And the line has been consistent. All Hamas understands is pressure. The lines of the president of the United States echoes just this weekend. He also said the language that Hamas understands is pressure. 
 
So the understanding of the Israeli government and the prime minister is the military campaign that enabled this hostage release to take place and certainly may do so in the days ahead as well. 
 
BLITZER: Avi Mayer, of "The Jerusalem Post," thanks so much for joining us. 
 
MAYER: Thank you for having me. 
 
BLITZER: While freed hostages may have reason to celebrate, many of them have a long road to mental recovery, including the kids who are being freed. We'll speak with a child psychologist. We'll discuss this and more when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:47:23] WHITFIELD: Families and loved ones of hostages released by Hamas are celebrating their return after seven weeks in captivity. Their long process of healing and recovery can begin. But it may not be an easy road. 
 
CNN's Brian Todd explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DR. SEFI MENDELOVICH, ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR, ISRAELI MINISTRY OF HEALTH: This is the first time that the state of Israel has had to prepare for the arrival of so many hostages. 
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For the hostages being released, the road ahead, according to analysts, will be difficult. 
 
DARIEL O'SHEA, FORMER NAVY SEAL COMMANDER &amp; FORMER HOSTAGE NEGOTIATOR: Even if they weren't shot or wounded in the initial kidnapping, or their captivity, they are going to have mental scars. 
 
DR. JEFF GARDERE, PROFESSOR OF BEHAVIORAL MEDICINE, TOURO UNIVERSITY: We're looking at a Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder here, where they will have nightmares. They will have flashbacks. They will have intrusive thoughts. They will have anxiety. They will have depression. They will have anger.
 
TODD: Jason Rezaian, "The Washington Post" writer who was held in Iran, for nearly a year and a half, spoke to us about the initial stages after being released. 
 
JASON REZAIAN, HELD IN IRAN 544 DAYS: Those first few months are really difficult. It is not really natural to just kind of come back to freedom. 
 
And then couple that with a sort of not being able to understand, hey, why am I not happier about this? It's -- it's an intense mix of feelings. 
 
TODD: Why wouldn't a former hostage feel happier about their newfound freedom? 
 
GARDERE: This is what we call that survivor guilt. Why me? Why am I free, and these other people are still in captivity? 
 
And this is why it is so difficult for them to get through the process of re-integrating into society. Because they feel a piece of them is left behind. 
 
TODD: And Psychologist Jeff Gardere and Rezaian say there's another layer to this hostage situation in Israel and Gaza. The abruptness and confusion of it all, being taken hostage so quickly, then released as a war rages around you. 
 
GARDERE: A person that is whisked into a hostage situation, dealing with people that they don't know, or don't get to know, and then they are whisked out again. It is something that is not helping their emotional balance in any way.
 
TODD (on camera): Gardere says, in these latest cases, there's yet another challenge, the fact that some of the people who have just been released, who have relatives who are still being held hostage, puts them in what Gardere calls psychological suspended animation. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Brian Todd, thank you so much for that. 
 <br>[13:49:55]
 
Four children were among the first group of hostages released yesterday. And ahead of these releases, Israel's Welfare Ministry issued guidelines for those who will be dealing with the kids who are freed. 
 
Let's talk about some of that with Dr. Rebecca Berry. She's a child psychologist. 
 
Good to see you, Dr. Berry.
 
Even if a child checks out as physically OK, what are the psychological red flags that experts will be looking for in these children? 
 
DR. REBECCA BERRY, CHILD PSYCHOLOGIST: Well, I think that it's important to understand that these individuals, these survivors have been through a lot. 
 
And oftentimes, we might not be able to determine the psychological impact or emotional impact of such severe or traumatic circumstances in the initial readjustment or re-entry back into their everyday lives. 
 
It can often take some time to demonstrate maladaptive effects of their experiences. 
 
But some of the core things we might be looking for, of course, are any changes to their biological rhythms, severe disruptions in sleep, nightmares, or even changes in their mood, more irritability, or even, for younger children, especially, more emotion dis-regulation or larger displays of intense emotions. 
 
And of course, some of these experiences are quite common for any of us to experience after trauma. But for certainly those who have undergone significant or extended duration of trauma, some of these things, emotional experiences can be quite prolonged. 
 
But we might be looking for changes in their anxiety or more demonstrations of anxiety, changes in their mood. We may see, for some youth, nightmares or what we consider traumatic reexperiencing of the trauma. So these are things that I'm certain that they would have a social
 
 welfare or a psychologist or psychiatrist monitoring ongoing as these youth continue their re-entry back to their typical lives. 
 
WHITFIELD: And then we've heard that Israeli hospitals that are prepared to see the youngest hostages have tried to create kind of calming, comforting environments in the rooms where released hostages will be. 
 
So what are other measures taken that might help them in this transition? 
 
BERRY: I think the younger children being in calming. And really the key there is less sensory stimulating environments is key. 
 
These youth, these survivors went through enduring circumstances for a number of days, and so their bodies have been in a state of fight or flight or what we consider survival mode. 
 
So their entry into the world in a less sensory intense environment will be key. That includes reducing exposure to large crowds or loud sounds, and certainly surrounding them with things that they may like or things that may be familiar to them. 
 
I know there had been an attempt, if they had pets, to have pets nearby or familiar toys. I think that things that they could really recollect or have an attachment to from an object perspective might be helpful as well. 
 
WHITFIELD: And while you were talking, we saw, again, some of the video from yesterday. And there's the 9-year-old little boy who just runs to his dad's arms. So he looks like, you know, his impulse to be excited is all there. 
 
But then there's going to be the issue of talking to them. Some might not be able to talk. Some kids might still be in a state of shock. Others might need to express themselves verbally right away. 
 
What are families going to be confronted with? How are they going to know what to do? 
 
BERRY: Right. And I'm imagining that these families are well advised from the staff at the hospitals from a psychological or emotional support perspective.
 
But I think that what the families can do, of course, is, under the advisement of the psychological professionals, to really follow the child's lead. 
 
As you had mentioned, there are likely a range of emotions, a mix of emotions, both the elation, as well as the shock, and it can also be some sadness and guilt, and even anger and confusion mixed in. 
 
So what families can expect or even do in that moment is to listen, to take the child's lead, and really to go slowly, to not force any type of emotional or cognitive processing of events. But allow these things to unfold with the advisement of the social welfare professionals there. 
 
WHITFIELD: And in Israel Welfare Ministry did have a statement on how it was asking the soldiers, who were among the first to interact with these young people, it's warning soldiers they should not answer questions such as a child who says, where is my mom, even if the soldier actually knows the answer. 
 
It says to tell the kids that they are bringing them to safety and to people who can answer their questions, people who will help keep them safe and secure. 
 <br>[13:55:03]
 
And I wonder, would there be a big difference in how they may be approaching younger kids versus the older kids? 
 
BERRY: I would say not necessarily. I think youth coming out of these circumstances -- and really, I think those Israel Defense Force soldiers have such an important role as transition agents for this re- entry for these survivors.
 
And so their goal there is to convey a balance of safety and security, as well as that warmth and approachability to ensure -- really to provide that reassurance to these youth that you are safe now and that you're going to be getting the help and support that you need or the care that you need. 
 
So I would say that that message can be strongly conveyed across the age ranges and can go very far in those initial moments of re-entry. 
 
WHITFIELD: So many conflicting emotions that these kids, their families, loved ones, everyone encountering them are going to be feeling. 
 
All right, Doctor Rebecca Berry, thank you so much for being with us. Appreciate it. 
 
BERRY: Thank you for having me. 
 
WHITFIELD: We're going to take a short break now. Our breaking news coverage of the Israel/Hamas truce continues next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)