Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: 7.2 Magnitude Earthquake Strikes Southern Alaska; Extreme Heat in U.S. and Europe; 16 Cities in Italy Under Severe Red Alert Health Advisory; Netanyahu Treated for Dehydration; Manhunt for Suspected Killer in Quadruple Shooting; Pennsylvania Police Recapturing Escaped Inmate; Ukraine Reporting Barrage of Russian Strikes on Two Major Cities; U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace Resigning at the next Cabinet Reshuffle; Sudanese Army Representatives Returned to Saudi Arabia to Resume Peace Talks; Millions Under Heat Alerts this Weekend; New Downpours and Flooding Concerns in Vermont; Tragic Floods in South Korea Kills 33 People; Hundreds of People Evacuate in India Due to Flooding; Gang Violence in Haiti Raging Out of Control; Interview with Miami Herald Caribbean Correspondent Jacqueline Charles; Haiti's Police Outmatched, Outgunned by Gangs; Djokovic Aims for 24th Slam in Men's Final; Lionel Messi Officially Signing with U.S. MLS. People Sending Ashes of Loved Ones into Space. Aired 4-5a ET

Aired July 16, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:00:00]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR:  Welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber.
 
Ahead on "CNN Newsroom," a heat wave is bringing temperatures never seen before in the U.S. and Europe. We'll tell you how hot it could get this weekend.
 
Plus --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHERIFF REGINALD SCANDRETT, HENRY COUNTY'S SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT: Wherever you are, we will hunt you down in any hole you may be residing in and bring you to custody, period.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  That's the message from law enforcement to the men suspected of killing four people outside of Atlanta on Saturday. We'll bring you the details of the manhunt.
 
And later, gang violence in Haiti is raging out of control. And now, the U.N. is considering sending a military force to the country.
 
But first, we want to tell you about reports coming into CNN about a large earthquake in Southern Alaska. The United States Geological Survey is reporting that a 7.2 magnitude quake struck a short time ago. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says a tsunami advisory is now in place in Southern Alaska and the Alaskan peninsula. Now, we haven't yet received reports of injuries or damage, and we'll bring you more on the story as we get it.
 
Well, tens of millions of people are sweltering under oppressive heat waves in the United States. Heat alerts stretch from Florida to the Pacific Northwest, and alerts for dangerous heat levels have been in effect for parts of Arizona and Texas for more than 30 days in a row. The heat wave could set more than 100 temperature records through Monday.
 
Death Valley, California could top 130 degrees later today. Right now, at 1:00 a.m. in Phoenix, it's 105 degrees. Now, according to data from the National Weather Service, heat kills more Americans than any other type of severe weather, and temperatures could get even worse, especially in the southwestern U.S. CNN's Rafael Romo has more on the story from Las Vegas.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  People here in Las Vegas are going to have to wait a few more days for a respite. The National Weather Service has issued an excessive heat warning for the city, expected to last until Tuesday evening. And meteorologists here are taking a close look at the climbing temperatures, because there's a possibility that the city's official all-time record of 117 degrees could be tied sometime between Sunday and Monday.
 
A good portion of the country is experiencing extreme heat, more than 85 million people are under heat alerts from the National Weather Service and at least 15 states from Florida to California. Phoenix has topped 110 degrees for 14 consecutive days, and is forecast to make that at least 19 by Tuesday, which will be the longest stretch in that city's history.
 
Earlier I spoke with a tourist from Canada visiting Las Vegas with her daughter who told us that she had found the right combination of indoor and outdoor recreation to stay safe in this oppressive heat.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Going to all the shops, in and out, just walk outside for a bit, get too hot, go in, cool down, and repeat.
 
ROMO:  That sounds like a great plan.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Thank you. It was a spur of the moment trip, and just let's go. And she was monitoring the temperature on her phone. She's like, mom, it's going to be hot.
 
ROMO:  Miami has seen a record 34 straight days where the heat index has climbed above 100 degrees, with the last 12 topping 105 degrees, which is double the previous record of six. Pauls Valley in Oklahoma saw its heat index climb to 126 degrees on Thursday, the highest in 30 years.
 
Officials for the City of Las Vegas are reminding residents, and this applies to people in other states too, that you should never leave pets or people in hot cars, even just for a few minutes because the temperature inside can increase to dangerous levels very quickly.
 
Rafael Romo, CNN, Las Vegas.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  The blistering heat wave across Southern Europe is intensifying amid the busy summer tourist season. Italy now has 16 cities under a severe red alert health advisory, the highest level they have.
 
On Saturday, Greece shut the famed Acropolis in Athens for a second straight day because of the heat. And the authorities in Spain say the heat wave is affecting the country's typically cooler north, not just areas in the south. The hottest temperatures ever recorded in Europe could happen in Sicily and Sardinia, potentially reaching a scorching 118 degrees, 48 degrees Celsius.
 
All right. Let's bring in CNN's Barbie Nadeau live in Rome, where it is scorching. So, Barbie, hot now in Italy and apparently it's going to get even hotter?
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN REPORTER:  That's right. You know, we're told that tomorrow and Tuesday are going to be even hotter than today and yesterday, which by my set of standards were very, very hot. You know, these tourists that are out here are in Piazza del Popolo in Central Rome are under this incredible sun. And we listened -- we talked to one -- a tourist who is used to the heat, but is still suffering here in Italy. Let's listen to what she had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CARMEN BISHOP, U.S. TOURIST:  It was suffocating. I mean, we are from Washington, D.C. and we get a lot of heat there, but it's not like this. It's like you can't find relief. Let me put it that way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NADEAU:  And, you know, you listen to that, she's used to the heat and it's still hot. Part of that, of course, it is the humidity, part of it also because tourists tend to not stop. You know, you plan a vacation to a city like Rome or Florence or, you know, Sicily or something like that, you want to use every minute of your holiday to see as much as you can, and that's just not feasible.
 
Authorities here are hoping that the tourists also, as well as the people who live in this area, just kind of take it easy during the hottest times of the day and keep hydrated, Kim. That's about all we can do.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes. That's right. All right. Turning to other countries in Europe, many also sweltering there as well.
 
NADEAU:  That's right. You know, Greece especially is really, really feeling the effects of the heat. They're used to hot weather there, too. The fact that they closed the Acropolis outside of Athens two days in a row I think speaks volume. I mean, that is a huge -- hugely popular tourist attraction. You know, people come to Athens to see that. And the fact that they've closed it and said it's just not worth the risk to humans says a lot. It says a lot about where we're going.
 
Spain, too. We're seeing incredible temperatures where it's usually just not at hot. So, there's just nowhere to find any relief. And the worst of it is, Kim, is it's not over yet, it's just going to get worse before we can even start talking about a break in the temperature.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes. It's scary. All right. Barbie Nadeau in Rome, thanks so much.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Yesterday, I spent time with my wife in the Sea of Galilee in the sun without a hat, without water, not a good idea. So, first of all, I want to thank you all for your concern and also to the excellent teams here at Sheba who examined me. Thank God I feel very well, but I have only one request from you, we are going through a heat wave in the country. So, I ask you, be less in the sun and drink more water and let us all have a good week.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Well, that was Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaking on Saturday from a hospital near Tel Aviv. He is expected to be released today after he was treated for dehydration and kept overnight for observation.
 
CNN's Hadas Gold joins us live this hour from Jerusalem. So, Hadas, dehydration, that's what they're saying. What more can you tell us?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  That is what they're saying right now, at least after the initial tests. But after being admitted to the hospital yesterday, being sent to the emergency room, his office is saying after the prime minister experienced dizziness.
 
Now, they say that on Friday he was at the Sea of Galilee where you hear him saying that he was in the sun, without a hat, without water. And then, on Saturday, they say, he began to experience dizziness, and on the advice of his personal doctor, went to the emergency room at a hospital, major hospital just in a suburb east of Tel Aviv. There he underwent some initial tests. They said that he was in good condition and that the signs at the point -- at that pointed toward dehydration.
 
However, he was kept overnight. He is actually still in the hospital as far as we know right now, still receiving further tests. They do say that he is still in good condition, and they haven't said anything other than dehydration. Now, there are starting to be increasing calls by those, especially Israeli political class for a full independent medical report from the hospital. We have not received that yet. We have been asking the prime minister's office for further information about his condition. They do say that they believe that he will be released today. That's according to the prime minister's office.
 
Now, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is 73 years old. Israel and this region is also going through a major heat wave. It is incredibly hot right now. And the -- for the prime minister, this is not the first time he's actually been admitted to the emergency room in the past year. In October, during the Yom Kippur holiday, which when observant Jews undergo a fast, he began to feel unwell in synagogue. He was taken to an emergency room here in Jerusalem where he was also kept overnight.
 
And this is, of course, been a very eventful time in Israeli politics in this region, the rising violence across the occupied West Bank and Israel and then, the rising domestic political pressures he is facing from the massive judicial overhaul. Benjamin Netanyahu is trying to push through this government and the rising protests on the street. Israelis taking to the streets on quite a regular level to protest that judicial overhaul. There is a lot going on.
 
But still some questions about the prime minister's condition. They have had to move a cabinet meeting that was scheduled for today. They are pushing it further because he is still in hospital. We're still awaiting further word on a full medical report from the prime minister and still waiting to see when he will be released from the hospital. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Hadas, you mentioned the protests despite the heat wave, those protests are continuing.
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
GOLD:  They are continuing. They were out again last night. They've been coming out once a week, essentially now for more than six months. Last week, there was what they called a major day of disruption. They were at the airport, clogging up the arrivals terminal there for several hours. They were taking to the streets. There were dozens of arrests made that day.
 
And the protests are planning another day of disruption this week, and that's because a part of the legislation that is a part of this overall package has been brought back on to the table. They are trying to get it passed within the next few weeks. This specifically has to do with trying to strip the ability of the Supreme Court from declaring government actions unreasonable.
 
Again, it's just one bill of sort of this package of bills, that's the judicial overhaul. But for the protesters, it's just the fact that this legislation is in play once again that's bringing them back out on to the streets. And they're planning another major day of disruption this week, but the government is pushing forward with their plans to get this specific part of the legislation passed within the next few weeks.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. We'll be watching those protests later this week. Hadas Gold in Jerusalem, thanks so much.
 
Georgia police are asking for the public's help locating the suspect in a deadly quadruple shooting and they're warning that he should be considered armed and dangerous. Authorities say 40-year-old Andre Longmore shot and killed four people Saturday morning in a town 30 miles South of Atlanta here.
 
CNN Correspondent Polo Sandoval has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  first question, a possible motive. The local police chief says that it's still too early to say. However, he was also asked if there's a possible connection between the suspect and any of the four victims. And the chief saying, at this point, he does not believe that to be the case, though it's still extremely preliminary.
 
They're currently looking for him. He was last seen aboard a 2017 black GMC Acadia, with Georgia plates DHF-756. I want you to hear directly from the Henry County sheriff as he shared a message not only with the community, but also aimed directly at the suspect that they're trying to find right now.
 
SHERIFF REGINALD SCANDRETT, HENRY COUNTY'S SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT:  This is an all hands on deck movement to make sure that we place Mr. Andre Longmore in custody. The Henry County sheriff's office is also offering a $10,000 reward for any information leading to the arrest and apprehension and prosecution of Mr. Longmore. If you see Mr. Longmore, please call 911. Do not approach him, because he is known to be armed and dangerous.
 
SANDOVAL:  Sheriff Scandrett there certainly hoping that that reward will encourage anybody to offer any sort of information in terms of his whereabouts, though certainly discouraging any member of the public from actually approaching him.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Meanwhile, police in Pennsylvania have re-captured an escaped inmate after intensive nine-day manhunt. The prisoner, Michael Burham, was found in a wooded area looking disheveled and wearing his prison pants inside-out. Officials say he had broken out of prison on July 6th using bed sheets as a rope to escape out of a window of the facility.
 
Authorities warn that he had military experience and survivalist skills and was dangerous. But Burham didn't get very far. He was found in the same city as the prison he escaped from. Police located him on Saturday after residents reported a suspicious person on their property. Burham had told the owners of the property he was camping, but they recognized him as the fugitive.
 
Law enforcement officials tracked him through the woods with the bloodhounds and search dogs. Burham is now back in jail. Police describe their relief that the ordeal is over. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LT. COL. GEORGE BIVENS, PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE:  I am very happy to be standing here in front of you to announce the capture of Michael Burham a short time ago here in Warren County.
 
I want to thank the residents of Warren County and the surrounding area for their patience through all of this. I know it was challenging for them. I know that they were nervous. I know that they were scared. But, you know, they remain gracious to all of our people and we're were very, very helpful to all of us.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Coming up, dozens of people have died from flash flooding and landslides in South Korea. Now, a dramatic search and rescue underway in a race against time. We'll have a live report.
 
And later, Novak Djokovic could win his 24th Grand Slam today at Wimbledon, but first he has to beat the top-ranked tennis player in the world. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Ukraine is reporting a barrage of Russian strikes on two major cities. It says Russian missiles hit downtown Kharkiv in the early hours of Sunday, while Zaporizhzhia was hit more than 50 times in the past 24 hours, leaving at least seven people injured. But Russian-appointed officials claim Ukraine tried to hit back, launching what they call a massive drone attack on Crimea.
 
Nada Bashir is monitoring developments and joins us from London. So, Nada, more aid for Ukraine. So, take us through what they're getting and what difference it might make.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER:  Well, certainly. We are hearing that pledge of further aid for Ukraine, that is certainly a significant development. We know, of course, following the NATO conference that we've heard there's repeated calls and reiterated calls from President Zelenskyy for further support, and that is only being underscored by the recent developments, though we are seeing, of course, overnight, that attacks that you mentioned in both Kharkiv and in Zaporizhzhia.
 
Of course, in Kharkiv, that damage that we've heard from the Ukrainian military officials, talking about the infrastructural damage that we have seen there, at least four missiles reportedly launched from the Belgorod region overnight, shortly after 1:30 a.m. local time, too, exploding near two hitting the ground.
 
Of course, we know that there has been consistent shelling in these surroundings areas overnight as well. That has been, of course, a huge concern, at least one person reportedly killed. And as you mentioned, we have also seen those attacks around the Zaporizhzhia region. As you said, 52 strikes in the last 24 hours. And this comes just day we heard from the Ukrainian military officials, warning that we have seen an intensification of Russian attacks over the last month in comparison to May.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
And this has been a real concern as, of course, Ukraine continues with its counteroffensive. And we have heard from western officials and now, acknowledgment from Ukrainian military officials that this simply isn't going as fast as have been expected or certainly as they'd hoped, the gains in terms of territory are not as substantial as Ukraine would have anticipated by this point in time.
 
And so, of course, we are seeing that consistent and continued push for aid for Ukraine and also, of course, for that military backing from Ukraine's western NATO allies.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. And then, Nada, turning to a development where you are in the U.K. The defense secretary stepping down. Do we know why?
 
BASHIR:  Well, look, we've heard from Ben Wallace, speaking to "The Sunday Times" newspaper here in the U.K, he's been clear that this isn't in relation to anything regarding the prime minister or his own decisions but rather a personal choice he has taken. He has spoken about the toll that his political life and public (INAUDIBLE) has had on his family, and that he intends not only to leave government as defense secretary following the next reshuffle of cabinets by Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, and that's anticipated in the coming months, but also intends to sit down as a member of parliament following the next national general election.
 
Now, of course, he has been defense secretary for the last four years and really rose to prominence at his profile growing and increasing, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. He has been a consistent figure in times of real political turmoil with the conservative party leadership. And, of course, he -- we have heard that he had his hopes set on the position potentially of NATO secretary general. So, the timing is certainly interesting given the fact this comes shortly after the announcement that Jens Stoltenberg would be remaining in post as secretary general. But for now, of course, the challenge for Rishi Sunak is who will be Ben Wallace's successor?
 
BRUNHUBER:  Plenty of speculation there. All right. Nada Bashir in London. Thanks so much.
 
In Sudan, after three months of bitter fighting and allegations of horrific war crimes, representatives of the Sudanese army have reportedly returned to Saudi Arabia to resume peace talks with rebel forces, but there's no indications that those talks have actually restarted.
 
Saudi and U.S. mediators suspended the talks last month because of numerous cease-fire violations and neither have has said those talks are back on.
 
CNN's Stephanie Busari joins us live from Lagos, Nigeria. So, Stephanie, considering what's gone before and where things stand now, I imagine the expectations are fairly low? STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR, AFRICA:  That's right, Kim. The cease-fire violations have been -- cease-fires have been violated many times and talks were actually suspended because neither party is listening and each blaming one another for the cease-fire not being supported or adhered to.
 
So, it's really low expectations. This is coming on the back of the talks in Cairo with the neighbors in -- Sudan's neighbors who got together to say, this war is taking a toll on our region. Something needs to be done. So, these generals need to -- really need to come to the table and sit down and talk and put down their weapons, that is essential. And this comes also on the back of the ICC probing the war crimes, horrific war crimes that is bringing misery to Sudanese people and the very real fears of genocide happening again in West Darfur, as happened 20 years ago, Kim.
 
So, the situation is just very untenable, but there seems to be no end in sight to -- for the Sudanese people to this war, seemingly unending war, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes. It's sad to see. All right. Stephanie Busari in Lagos. Thanks so much.
 
Still to come, millions across the U.S. are under heat alerts this weekend and it's only going to get more intense over the next few days. We'll have more on that next. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  And welcome back to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is "CNN Newsroom."
 
We're returning to our top story, the major earthquake in Southern Alaska. The United States Geological Survey says a 7.2 magnitude quake struck a short time ago. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says a tsunami advisory is now in place in Southern Alaska and the Alaskan peninsula. And so far, we haven't received reports of injuries or damage. We'll bring you more on the story as we get it.
 
More than 80 million people are under heat alerts in the U.S. right now and the weeks-long heat wave that's blanketed the southwest is only set to get more intense.  If you're in the south, temperatures are going to be on the rise this week. Death Valley, California, hit a staggering 129 degrees on Saturday. Tourists were still visiting the national park, despite the conditions, hoping to be part of the record-breaking weekend. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PATRICK OEYEN, TOURIST FROM BELGIUM:  For the rest (ph), I've never experienced this kind of heat, no. It's really, really hot. You can maximum stay out like 10 minutes, 15 minutes, then you need to have some aircon from the car. But even the car is getting some trouble getting the cooling.
 
ANNA BERG, DANISH TOURIST:  It's so hot and it's like, you know, you get dry really quick. But -- and then, you know, the sweat. The sweat is also not -- we're not used to the sweat in Denmark.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Now, to Vermont, where new downpours and flooding concerns are affecting an area already devastated by both. Have a look. This is video from earlier in the week. Dozens of homes were evacuated and several people had to be rescued after rivers overflowed their banks. More rain is moving into the area as we speak and more flooding is expected. Flood watches are now in effect through at least late Sunday night.
 
A massive search and rescue operation is underway right now in South Korea. Emergency teams are trying to drain this underpass in the central part of the country. It flooded after torrential rains overflowed and burst the levee of a nearby river, trapping several cars and a public bus inside. So far, the bodies of seven people have been recovered and the rescue teams are searching for any possible survivors.
 
Days of torrential rain have devastated parts of South Korea. Overall, at least 33 people have died from flash floods and landslides and thousands of people have been forced to evacuate their homes.
 
Mark Stewart joins me now from Tokyo. Mark, horrific scenes there. Bring us up to speed. What's the latest?
 <br>[04:30:00]
 
MARK STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Kim, let's start with this rescue effort, with that underpass. It's happening about 100 kilometers, that is south of Seoul, about 60 miles to the south of Seoul. This is now going into its 11th hour.
 
And it's really been difficult for two reasons. First of all, crews actually had to build a dam to contain the water before they could go in. That's in addition to the fact that there's been heavy rain in this area since Thursday and throughout the day today, there has been a heavy rain alert. So, that's making things very difficult.
 
As you could see though, a very large response taking place just outside of Seoul. Let me just tell you some of the equipment and the manpower that is involved, according to emergency responders, about 399 workers, close to 400 people have been involved with this. 65 pieces of individual equipment are helping to try to get to this underpass.
 
Crews have been able to send dive teams in. They have seen many vehicles. I think as you mentioned earlier, there was a bus. At one point, one of the victims identified as a woman in her 70s. So, this is a very tough situation. Rescue workers have also been asked about survivors, if there's the potential that there may be some air pockets hidden below. Unfortunately, that does not appear to be the case. What has happened in Seoul though is also representative of some of the issues that we have been seeing across the region.
 
Here in Japan, we have seen a landslide in the last few days. We have also been dealing with flooding. And sadly, there are report of fatalities. And finally, an issue that has also been plaguing Asia has been heat. Now, it is a hot time here in Japan. It is a rainy time here in Japan, but we are seeing temperatures in the very high 90s, even today, a high of about 98 degrees, 36, 37 degrees Celsius. Even though it's something that people are used to in this part of the world, especially in the summertime, especially because we're on an island surrounded by water, it is very difficult and it is yet another example of why people need to take caution in this part of the world, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, absolutely. And as you say, I mean, that extreme weather being felt in other Asian countries, including in Japan, where you are.
 
STEWART:  Yes. And, you know, this is something that emergency responders have been primed to deal with. Unfortunately, these forces of nature are too big. As I mentioned, we have a landslide, we have seen flooding. So, even with the best preparation, it's something that's very difficult to combat.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Thanks so much, Mark Stewart in Tokyo.
 
Well, people in Northern India are grappling with floods after bouts of torrential rain. The Yamuna River was at it its highest it's been in 45 years, overflowing its banks after unusually heavy rainfall. Hundreds of people were forced to evacuate. Roads have been severely damaged and a school building was washed away.
 
U.S. climate envoy, John Kerry, is feeling the searing heat of Beijing this weekend, as he arrives for talks with his Chinese counterpart. Temperatures are soaring to 36 degrees Celsius or nearly 100 Fahrenheit in the Chinese capital. CNN's Anna Coren has more on the high-level talks from Hong Kong.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  After the planet recorded its hottest week in history and extreme weather continues to cause death and destruction globally, the world's two biggest polluters will hold climate talks in Beijing during a heat wave in the capital.
 
U.S. climate envoy. John Kerry, begins a four-day trip to China on Sunday.
 
JOHN KERRY, U.S. CLIMATE ENVOY:  As the two leading emitters in the world and as the two largest economies in the world, China and the United States really need to cooperate on this.
 
COREN (voiceover):  Both sides are feeling the pain on their home soil this summer, with U.S. states facing intense heat and flooding, and record temperatures across China, where even the pandas are struggling to keep cool.
 
LAURI MYLLYVIRTA, CENTRE FOR RESEARCH ON ENERGY AND CLEAN AIR: Temperature extremes are a frightening reminder of what we're headed for. And the most frightening part is that global temperatures will keep increasing until global emissions reach zero.
 
COREN (voiceover):  In Beijing, John Kerry will meet his Chinese counterpart, Xie Zhenhua. The pair have worked together on the climate issue for years, and made a key bilateral deal in 2021.
 
THOM WOODROOFE, SENIOR FELLOW, ASIA SOCIETY:  The holy grail of this visit from the U.S. perspective would be walking away with a grand part (ph) of Chinese to protect and isolate climate from the rest of their relationships so that it's not susceptible to a geopolitical flare-up as we saw with Nancy Pelosi's visit to Taiwan last year.
 
COREN (voiceover):  Since Pelosi's controversial trip and the shooting down of a Chinese surveillance balloon in February, the two sides are now trying to get back on track. Kerry is the third senior Biden official to visit China in the past month. U.S. secretary of state, Antony Blinken, met with Xi Jinping last month. And U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen visited last week, where she called on China to give more cash to help developing countries cut emissions.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
Experts hope Kerry's visit will lay the groundwork for COP 28, the next climate summit hosted by Abu Dhabi in November.
 
LI SHOU, SENIOR POLICY ADVISOR, GREENPEACE EAST ASIA:  They each carry a lot of (INAUDIBLE). If they can find way to agree with each other on certain issues, then it is much easier for the rest of the world to get onboard.
 
COREN (voiceover):  But with both countries still heavily reliant on fossil fuels and facing economic pressure at home, any progress is likely to be an uphill battle. Anna Coren, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Coming up here on "CNN Newsroom," after two years of escalating gang violence in Haiti, the United States is calling for international help. We'll tell you what they're asking for. That's coming up. Please do stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER:  A crisis in Haiti is growing worse each day with gang violence spreading far outside the capital of Port-au-Prince. The United Nations is urging the United States to send security support and to consider forming a specialized police force that Haiti's government has requested to combat gangs. Paula Newton gives us an update.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It's now been two years since the assassination of Haiti's leader has plunged this country into even more chaos. The United Nations even says that what is going on here now is unprecedented in Haiti's history. What has happened is that armed gangs have not only taken over the capital with their violence and brutality, but it is having an impact right across the country.
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
We are here in Southwestern Haiti, in Lakai. And even here, what is happening in Port-au-Prince can be felt, first and foremost economically. Now, remember, that Haiti already has one of the highest incidences, rates of food insecurity in the world. And now, because of the control that those gangs have in Port-au-Prince, aid groups tell us that the situation is worsening even here, not just with food insecurity, but also with the threat that that kind of violence, the violence that is already a reality in the capital, will come here. Listen.
 
FLAVIA MAURELLO, AVSI FOUNDATION, HAITI COUNTRY DIRECTOR:  We heard about GBB, we heard about violence on children, and this is something that was not common in this country side.
 
NEWTON:  It's shocking for you, then, to see it here.
 
MAURELLO:  Yes. And for me, it was the first time hearing something like that, in this side.
 
NEWTON:  In fact, the U.N. secretary general was here earlier this month and he said he was absolutely appalled by the level of torture, the witness accounts that he heard from, the fact that women and young girls were being gang-raped.
 
Having said that, what he is asking for, he says, is not a mission, but a robust military force by what he is calling interested member states to come here and work hand in hand with the authorities. That is far from a reality right now. And in fact, even the aid appeal from here in Haiti remains remarkably undersubscribed. They are still in need of hundreds of millions of dollars. And yet, the International Community seems to have aid fatigue about Haiti and is yet to step up to really try to provide this country with even the basics of life right now.
 
Paula Newton, CNN, Lakai, Haiti.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Joining me now is Jacqueline Charles, Caribbean correspondent for "The Miami Herald." Thanks so much for being here with us.
 
So, as we just heard, kidnappings, killings, sexual violence are on the rise. Haiti seems on the brink. How precarious is the situation right now?
 
JACQUELINE CHARLES, CARIBBEAN CORRESPONDENT, MIAMI HERALD:  Well, the situation is precarious. We saw a little bit of as respite, just about a month or two ago after some vigilante killings. What happened with the population was taking this issue of security into their own hands. They were blocking off roads, they were actually hunting down alleged, you know, gang members and the United Nations, you know, put out some statistics on, you know, how many people, you know, had been killed in these vigilante killings, which we're saying this is not the way to go.
 
But, you know, I just recently came from Haiti not long ago. And what you started to see is indeed, you know, kidnappings have returned. We're starting to hear more about, you know, incidents of violence. And so, there is concern that we are now going right back to where we were just a couple of months ago.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes. That's sad to hear. The problem, of course, is those rampant gangs now control close to, you know, 80 percent of Port-au- Prince, which means many people have been displaced, they can't move around, they don't have food or access to medical care. So, how are Haitians coping?
 
CHARLES:  Haitians are coping in a very difficult situation. Let me just give you an example, because I just wrote this story this week, you know, there's an American priest who's been working with the leaders of four very powerful gangs and he's gotten them to call a truce. So, these gangs basically have carried out some, you know, massacres in Cite Soleil, which the largest slum in Port-au-Prince.
 
But then when you go towards, you know, Tabara, where the U.S. embassy is located, we had an incident over a week ago where approximately 20 armed men went into the trauma hospital, dragged out a wounded, you know, gunshot victim and doctors without borders (INAUDIBLE) hospital had to, you know, announce that they were temporarily suspending, you know, services. This is not the first time they've done it, but you have to say, you know, how many temporary suspensions before it becomes, you know, a permanent?
 
You know, you go out, just an everyday, you know, running errands, you don't know whether you're going to be the next kidnapping victim, you don't know whether or not you're going to be a victim of the violence. And of course, it's sexual violence. You know, increasingly, gangs are using sexual violence, you know, rape, gang rape and mutilation of young girls and women. This is now part of their tactic. So, this is very much a rising problem and a rising concern.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Just absolutely horrific. The U.N. Security Council has asked the secretary general to come up with solutions, including a possible deployment, many in the country say that's just a band-aid, and of course, you know, they sort of are reluctant to see foreign soldiers, because they're seen as having caused more problems than they've solved in the past. Do you get a sense that more boots on the ground is what's needed here?
 
CHARLES:  Well, this issue, of course, is very controversial on how you ask it. But I have to tell you that I've seen polling the last couple of months where Haitians want help. They recognize that the Haitian National Police, which on any given day is just 3,300 police officers on public safety duty in a country of 12 million, that they can't do it on their own.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
And so, the polls show that the average Haitians, now, we're not talking about the politicians, we're talking about the folks who are having to live with this insecurity, live with the gang violence, who cannot get out of their neighborhoods, who cannot get their kids to school, they are asking for help and they want help from the outside.
 
BRUNHUBER:  In the meantime, the U.N. is promising more policing support, more training, but gangs have so much influence in the police and in the government. So, is there a point to bolstering the policing without broader anti-corruption reform?
 
CHARLES:  Look, you know, the Haitian National Police, they are ill- equipped, they are outgunned. Gangs are using heavy machinery. When you talk to police officers, when you have had success, what they describe to you is running in military operation. And so, while, yes, additional police advisers are great, but everybody that's looking at this, that's studying this is saying, what the police need is they need assets, military assets, military muscle.
 
BRUNHUBER:  The problem just seemed insurmountable, but there is no debate, Haitians do need help. Really appreciate your insights. Jacqueline Charles, thanks so much.
 
CHARLES:  Thank you.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. I want to return to one of our top stories. We had mentioned earlier that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was hospitalized for apparent dehydration and kept overnight for observation. Well, now, we're learning a bit more about his stay there. I want to bring back in CNN's Hadas Gold live from Jerusalem. So, Hadas, what more can you tell us?
 
GOLD: Yes. There had been some questions, because the hospital -- of the prime minister's office had been saying that the prime minister had been admitted to the hospital for dehydration, but he had been kept overnight and further tests were being conducted.
 
And now, we're hearing, finally from the hospital itself, from the senior doctors there themselves that while they do believe that the reason for hospitalization was dehydration and they say that he went through multiple types of tests, including on his heart, that there were -- that that did come out as normal, Benjamin Netanyahu has now been implanted with a heart monitor. This is a very small device that will just go under the skin, under his chest that will be able to continuously monitor his heart, and they say that this was performed while he was completely fully conscious, according to places like the British Heart Foundation. This is a relatively quick procedure that's done. A heart monitor placed just under the skin on the chest, with local anesthetic. So, he was never put under.
 
The doctors do say that at no point, no heart arrhythmia was found or anything like that, but they wanted to implement this heart monitor under his chest so that his own close medical professional team could continue regular monitoring.
 
So, as of right now, the reason for the hospitalization initially was the dehydration, the prime minister's office saying that he had been in the Sea of Galilee on Friday. This region is undergoing a major heat wave, as is so much of the rest of the Northern Hemisphere right now. He put out a -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu put out a statement, a video statement yesterday saying he had been out without a hat, without water, that it was not a good idea. He complained of dizziness on Saturday, that's when he went to the emergency room.
 
So, still, the diagnosis for hospitalization is dehydration, but the major news out of this is that the prime minister now has a heart monitor. He is 73 years old. He has no known major previous medical conditions. Although, in October of last year, he was also sent to the emergency room while feeling unwell during Yom Kippur, this is the Jewish holiday when observant Jews fast. He also spent the night there overnight, but as far as we understand, he was not implemented with a heart monitor there. So, that is the news now.
 
He has not yet been discharged from the hospital, but according to the hospital's statement, they do expect him to be discharged within the next few hours. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Interesting development. All right. Thanks so much, Hadas Gold in Jerusalem.
 
Still ahead here on "CNN Newsroom," Messi makes it official. We'll have details of Major League Soccer's unique deal, that's coming up. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  In just a few hours, a battle of the generations in the men's final. 36-year-old Novak Djokovic is trying to win a record- equaling 24th Grand Slam. He'll be up against the current world number one, 20-year-old Spanish superstar, Carlos Alcaraz. They both cruised to the championship, winning their semifinal matches in straight sets.
 
Well, it's official, international soccer superstar, Lionel Messi, has officially signed with Miami. Major League Soccer Club, Inter Miami, announced the signing on Saturday. Messi will occupy a designated player slot and will be under contract through the 2025 season.
 
And multiple reports say his deal includes a potential ownership stake and a share of the revenue from the new subscribers to Apple TV's MLS season pass. Messi's Miami debut is scheduled for July 21st in the opening match of the League Cup.
 
And finally, instead of resting in peace, some families are choosing to send their dearly departed loved ones into space. Later this year, one company is even allowing the DNA of the living to take the ultimate road trip into the great beyond. CNN's Michael Holmes reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  Happy tears and cheers, unusual sounds at a funeral. But this burial site is a new frontier, not six feet under, but millions of kilometers above. These families are sending ashes of their loved ones into space aboard a rocket.
 
NASA and several private companies have launched cremated remains into space before, but the company, Celestis, says it's the first to send so many to their final resting place in deep space.
 
COLBY YOUNGBLOOD, PRESIDENT, CELESTIS:  No one's done that before, we're going to have 196 capsules of cremated remains, of people who have passed away, or DNA of people who are still living. That repository is going to be 330 million kilometers out into space, for the first time in history.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  The pioneering flight is slated for later this year and includes some well-known names.
 
YOUNGBLOOD:  Some really famous "Star Trek" cast members, we have their ashes or their DNA that are flying, along with a couple of famous presidents. We've got a hair follicle from George Washington, President Dwight Eisenhower, and President John F. Kennedy are also onboard that flight as well.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  The rocket also has room for DNA from the living, like this Arizona couple who say they love to take trips interstate or intergalactic.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  So, I guess it would be the ultimate road trip.
 
GERRY PAULUS, SENDING HIS DNA INTO SPACE:  This is the DNA memorial kit. And basically, it takes the DNA. It creates a substrate, a powdered substrate that's capable of intergalactic travel, you know, because you don't have heaters onboard, you have to have the DNA that's in a powdered form that can handle the rigors of space.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  Celestis says they've launched 20 space flights dating back to 1997. They usually throw a party on launch day and family members can monitor the flight on a satellite tracker.
 
YOUNGBLOOD:  For the person, it fulfills their dream. For the family, it provides a profound sense of closure.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  Fees start at just under $3,000 to fly your loved one's remains briefly into space back again. And for nearly $13,000, they can fly to the moon and rest in peace in space.
 
Michael Holmes, CNN.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. That wraps this hour of "CNN Newsroom." I'm Kim Brunhuber. I'll be back with more news in just a moment. Please stay with us. 
 <br>[05:00:00]