Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Biden Rallies Apec Leaders; Clashes Happen Between Police And Anti-Catalan Amnesty Protesters; Israeli Army Finds A Tunnel Shaft On The Grounds Of Gaza's Biggest Hospital; British Foreign Secretary David Cameron Makes His First Visit To Ukraine; Iceland Faces Volcanic Eruption Threat; Sean "Diddy" Combs Accused of Rape and Abuse in Lawsuit Filed By Former Girlfriend, Cassie. Aired 2-2:45a ET

Aired November 17, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[02:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR:  Welcome to all of you watching us around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. Ahead on CNN Newsroom, under pressure. Israel offers evidence it says proves Hamas operated tunnels under Gaza's largest hospital. Also --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  To the possibilities of all we can do together. Here, here. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  The U.S. President rallies APEC leaders promising strong economic ties. And a country divided -- clashes between police and anti-Catalan amnesty protesters as Spain's Pedro Sanchez secures a new term as Prime Minister. 
 
VOICE-OVER:  Live from CNN Center, this is CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber. 
 
BRUNHUBER:  The Israeli army says its troops have found a tunnel shaft on the grounds of Gaza's biggest hospital that's been used by Hamas militants. Israel released these images showing a deep hole in the ground surrounded by concrete and rubble. 
 
The discovery comes as the Israeli government faces mounting pressure to justify the hospital siege and its bombardment of the enclave. The Israel Defense Forces say weapons were also found in the vehicle at the hospital, but Hamas calls these claims baseless lies. 
 
Now, CNN can't verify the accusations of Israel or Hamas. But here you can see the layout of the Al-Shifa Hospital complex. Marked -- the tunnel there is marked in the upper left. The location of Hamas equipment, the IDF says it found, is outlined in yellow there in the center. CNN's Jeremy Diamond brings us the latest on the situation at Al-Shifa Hospital. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  A Hamas tunnel below Gaza's largest hospital. That's what the Israeli military says this video shows. Nearly 48 hours after Israeli forces raided Al-Shifa hospital, these are the first images of what the Israeli military says is an operational tunnel shaft on the grounds of the hospital complex. 
 
CNN cannot independently verify those claims, but using this frame, CNN has geolocated this video to the Al-Shifa complex about 30 meters away from one of the hospital's main buildings. 
 
DANIEL HAGARI, REAR ADMIRAL, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES SPOKESPERSON:  It is here in Shifa Hospital where Hamas operates some of its Command and Control cells. 
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  For weeks, Israeli officials have laid the groundwork for an operation targeting Shifa Hospital, claiming Hamas operates a massive underground complex below it. And in recent days, the U.S. has also backed up those allegations. 
 
BIDEN:  One thing that has been established is that Hamas does have headquarters, weapons, materiel below this hospital. 
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  As Israeli special forces continue searching the hospital complex, they are also uncovering weapons and ammunition. 
 
JONATHAN CONRICUS, LIEUTENANT COLONEL ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES SPOKESPERSON:  There is a -- an AK-47. There are cartridges ammo. There are grenades in here.
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  -- which the Israeli military calls concrete evidence that Hamas used Gaza's largest hospital to wage war. Near the hospital, Israeli officials also say they found the body of 65-year- old Yehudit Weiss who was among those abducted on October 7th. 
 
Israel's decision to send troops into a hospital has drawn fierce criticism, with the U.N.'s Aid Chief saying he is appalled by the raid. President Biden standing by Israel's actions. 
 
BIDEN:  It's not like they're rushing to the hospital, knocking down doors and, you know, pulling people aside and shooting people indiscriminately. 
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Amid the fighting, the families of hostages held by Hamas ramping up the pressure. 
 
ZOHAR AVIGDORI, NIECE, SISTER-IN-LAW HELD HOTAGE:  This whole huge march of families up to Jerusalem comes to make a very clear stand to our government that they need to take any deal that they have and pay any price for these people, for their citizens, pretty much. 
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  As negotiations drag on over a deal that could see Hamas free dozens of women and children in exchange for a multi- day ceasefire --
 
AVIGDOR:  This is my sister-in-law. And this is my niece. She's 12 years old. 
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  Their families are racked with anxiety. 
 
AVIGDOR:  It's been nerve-racking to tell you the truth, because, again, we don't know who to believe. We are trying to kind of scrape the last remnants of faith and trust in our government that when a relevant deal comes to the table, they will take it. 
 
DIAMOND (voice-over):  For now, they march and wait. Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Ashkelon, Israel. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER:  We go now to CNN's Scott McLean, who's live from Istanbul. And Scott, the U.N. calling for access to investigate what's happening in Al-Shifa. 
 <br>[02:05:00]
 
What more are we learning about that? 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hey Kim, yeah, Volker Turk, the U.N. Human Rights Chief, isn't taking anyone's word for it when it comes to the Al-Shifa Hospital and the justification that the Israelis have given for going in and the explanation or the denials from Hamas that there's nothing to see. 
 
You have seen the Israelis, as you saw in Jeremy's piece there, come out with a video on Wednesday showing what they say is proof that there were weapons inside various parts of the hospital. Then yesterday they came out with another one saying that they found a tunnel shaft reinforced with concrete. 
 
Hamas though calls that claim a ridiculous scenario that Israel is using to justify the war. They have plainly denied that the hospital is used as any kind of a Command and Control Center as the Israelis have alleged that there is a sophisticated multi-level tunnel system underneath of Al-Shifa Hospital. 
 
And Hamas has said, look, international organizations should come and inspect all of the hospitals to prove that there is in fact nothing to see there. The U.N. Human Rights Chief, Kim, told our colleague Becky Anderson yesterday that look, an investigation is precisely what is needed, listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLKER TURK, U.N. HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS:  We cannot rely on one or the other party when it comes to this. This is precisely where you need an independent international investigation because we have different narratives and as I said, International Humanitarian Law is clear. You cannot use civilians, especially hospitals for any military purposes, but you can also not attack a hospital in the absence of clear evidence that, you know, there are issues. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCLEAN:  Now, he also says that his team needs access on the ground, but to get access that requires guarantees from both sides and he is frankly still waiting for those. He went on to say that very clearly the attacks of October 7th, the terror attacks carried out by Hamas in Israel were war crimes. 
 
He also says though that the Israeli response and what he described as collective punishment of cutting off water and supplies and electricity to Gaza is also in his mind, a crime. He says that his staff have already started to gather evidence on what's happening in Gaza but again, they need access and that is not going to happen. 
 
They're not going to go on the ground to start investigating on the ground and while the bombs are still falling. So, don't expect this to happen anytime soon. 
 
In addition, you also have the Israelis, Kim, saying, look, they believe that what they've shown already justifies their actions but they have also said that to fully prove what they have alleged already, it could take days maybe even weeks. So, nothing here will happen quickly. 
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right then and Scott, with every passing day and growing Palestinian deaths, Israel's international support faces more challenges. You've been monitoring that angle. What are you seeing? 
 
MCLEAN:  Yeah, look, even two weeks ago, Kim, we know from, you know, American officials that they have told the Israelis very clearly that they believe that there is a limited time window here that Israel has to carry out their war in Gaza and try to achieve their goal, their stated goal of destroying Hamas' military capabilities -- military and political capabilities.
 
Because they believe that at some point, international outrage over this will reach a tipping point and simply make the U.S. position of resisting calls for a ceasefire untenable. You have seen pressure, not only from international organizations, but also from Israel's neighbors in the region. 
 
Over the last few years, you have seen Israel really trying to extend olive branches to its neighbor, building up goodwill, economic, political ties with some countries. Turkey is certainly one of them. It has had, by and large, good relations with Israel over the last 70 years but the Palestinian issue has been the one thing that has really gotten in the way of relations really improving substantially or ties getting closer. 
 
And, you know, less than two months ago, you had Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli Prime Minister, shaking hands with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the U.N. General Assembly in New York. 
 
Now, fast forward less than two months since that handshake happened, you have Erdogan calling Israel a terrorist state and that seems to be indicative of the state of relations between Israel and Turkey. And frankly, that's only marginally better than relations with Israel and some of the other Middle Eastern neighbors at this stage as well, Kim. 
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yeah, that's right. All right, thanks so much. Scott McLean in Istanbul, appreciate it. Scores of Israeli families are still struggling to recover from the horrifying terror attacks by Hamas last month. CNN's Nic Robertson talks to two survivors about their experiences and how they're doing now.
 <br>[02:10:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over):  Yuri and his father, Yonathan, are survivors of Hamas' brutal October 7 attacks. They've taken refuge in Israel's seaside resort, Eilat. Yuri is 12 years old. He wanted to tell his story. He is the first child we have spoken with since Hamas' horrific, brutal attacks. 
 
ROBERTSON:  How many people close to you are missing still? 
 
YONATHAN:  Yuri says around 20. Kibbutz Nir Oz suffered a really hard blow. A quarter of the kibbutz is either killed or missing. '
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  Their home was here in Nir Oz. Pre- October 7th population, close to 400 people. 
 
YONATHAN:  We heard like a war outside our window, a war. They were shooting at houses, RPG on houses, grenades on civilians, nothing. We didn't say anything. We kept quiet. 
 
ROBERTSON:  They were incredibly lucky to survive Hamas' brutal attack. The family was saved by this lock on their bomb shelter door. But one of Yuri's brothers, Yoav, was at a sleepover in another house on the Kibbutz. Were you worried for your brother? Yuri nods. 
 
YONATHAN:  Very much. He was crying in the safe room because of that. 
 
ROBERTSON:  Hours later, it would be Yuri watching his father cry. 
 
YONATHAN:  It was around, I guess, five at the afternoon. That was the first time we saw Yoav again. And I broke down. 
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  They'd all been rescued by soldiers brought to the big Kibbutz safe room. Reunited after seemingly endless hours of grueling separation. 
 
YONATHAN:  I collapsed. I broke down that moment. Yuri said it was the first time he saw me cry that time. 
 
ROBERTSON:  It's a big thing to see your father cry. How's your father doing now? 
 
YONATHAN:  He said he thinks I'm okay. He doesn't see any worries on me. It's a good disguise, I guess. 
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  When Palestinian Islamic Jihad released a hostage video of one of Yuri's friends, they didn't show it to Yuri to spare him the pain. 
 
YONATHAN:  We don't want him to see also. It's more propaganda than anything else. 
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  But they can't insulate him completely. Yuri's best friend, Etan, is one of several close friends held hostage. 
 
YURI:  He's a very good friend. And we're playing soccer in the kibbutz. 
 
ROBERTSON:  What will you do when you see him again? 
 
YURI:  I'll hug him. 
 
YONATHAN:  He'll run to hug him. And he hopes that he'll come back soon. 
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  Hamas' damaging impact far from over. Nic Robertson, CNN, Eilat, Israel. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER:  The APEC Summit in San Francisco wraps up on Friday. We'll take a closer look at what they hope to accomplish on the final day. We'll have a live report from Seoul just ahead. Plus, Spain's Pedro Sanchez returns to power amid violent protests over a controversial amnesty bill for Catalan separatists. Details coming up. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER:  U.S. President Joe Biden will convene the final day of the APEC Summit in San Francisco in the coming hours. His Friday agenda includes a meeting with Mexico's President, followed by a leaders' retreat. During the retreat, the President will formally hand over the APEC chair to the President of Peru. 
 
Now, Biden set the tone for the summit when he met one-on-one with China's Xi Jinping on Wednesday. Both leaders expressed satisfaction at the end of their lengthy talks and agreed to continue speaking. 
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks is covering all of this for us from Seoul. So, Paula, take us through highlight, so far, and what we can expect later today as the event wraps up. 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Kim, that really was the highlight. The fact that President Joe Biden and Xi Jinping met with each other. Now, the bar had been set fairly low before that meeting, but both sides said that they were satisfied, that they had been productive and frank meetings, although clearly many differences of opinion still are there to this day. We do know that there are 21 economies within the APEC Summit, but
 
 everyone was really looking to this meeting to see what tone would be set and countries seeing what sort of impact it might have on them. 
 
We have seen China and the U.S. really competing for influence in the Indo-Pacific region, not just politically, also economically. And what we saw on Thursday was, as the host, President Joe Biden really being able to pitch his country as being the best option for that influence. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN:  And count on the United States. We're delivering on our promises and we're doubling down on our progress. And we'll soon be -- we'll soon be your strong and steady partner as we continue working together to realize the Asian Pacific region that is free and open, prosperous and secure, resilient and connected. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANCOCKS:  And what we've seen from the Chinese leader Xi Jinping is a real focus on the economy on trying to boost, for example, foreign investment into his country. He did attend a business dinner, a dinner with really the chief executives of all the main or significant U.S. companies that either have a presence in China already or are looking to have a presence. 
 
And in his keynote address, he really did pitch China as being open for business and encouraging more investment in his country. Now, it comes on the back of course, Xi Jinping trying to deal with a struggling economy which has not recovered since the COVID pandemic. The housing market is in crisis and employment is at record highs. So, this is really the backdrop of many of the meetings that Xi Jinping decided to attend. 
 
He also met on Thursday with Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida. There are historical issues between those two countries and between the leaders. And we heard from the Japanese side that they have expressed serious concerns about increased military activity near Japan, also saying that they wanted, along with much of the rest of the region, to push for Taiwan, the importance of the Taiwan Straits, peace and stability. 
 
Taiwan, of course, being one of the main issues and stumbling blocks between the U.S. and China during that meeting. In fact, Xi Jinping saying that was one of the main bones of contention when it came to relations between the two countries. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Interesting. All right, we'll be following along for the rest of the day. Paula Hancocks in Seoul. Thanks so much. Well, protests in Madrid Thursday night over a proposed amnesty law for Catalan separatists. 
 
Thousands have taken to the streets for almost two weeks to oppose the move. It comes as acting Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez secures a new term after getting crucial support from two Catalan separatist parties. [02:20:00]
 
CNN's Isa Soares takes a closer look at Sanchez's long and controversial path to power. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ISA SOARES, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR (voice-over): After months of negotiations and political upheaval, Pedro Sanchez has secured another term as Prime Minister. Sanchez won the backing of 179 lawmakers, giving his coalition a majority in the 350-seat parliament. Getting here, though, hasn't been easy. 
 
Back in July, Alberto Nunez Feijo's conservative Popular Party won the most seats but ultimately lacked the support of former coalition government. That opened the door for Pedro Sanchez's Socialist Party, who were runners-up to form a coalition, if he could win enough support. 
 
But even with former coalition partner party Sumar in tow, the numbers just weren't there, and support from smaller nationalist parties would be needed to form a workable government. That meant making a controversial pact with the two Catalan separatist parties, Junts and the Catalan Republican Left, but that meant making concessions. 
 
The biggest agreeing to introduce a bill that would grant amnesty to those prosecuted or facing prosecution for their roles in the 2017 independence referendum, which was later ruled illegal. The controversial move sparked weeks of protests across the country. Tens of thousands of people took to the streets, with some calling Sanchez a traitor. 
 
In parliament, political opponents have called the move unconstitutional, with the popular party's Fai Ha saying that, quote, "Making decisions against a general interest in exchange for personal benefits is political corruption." In the meantime, Sanchez says the amnesty plan is a move towards dialogue and forgiveness. 
 
PEDRO SANCHEZ, SPANISH PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  We have put negotiation before imposition. We have put reunion before revenge. In short, unity before fracture. 
 
SOARES (voice-over):  Isa Soares, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Ukraine has released dramatic video of its ongoing offensive to retake the eastern city of Bakhmut.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Ukraine says this footage shows its soldiers overrunning Russian trenches near the city. Now, it's not clear when the attack happened. Russia captured Bakhmut back in May, but Ukraine has been slowly regaining ground in the city since then. Meanwhile, the death toll from a Russian missile strike southwest of
 
 Bakhmut has grown to four people. Ukraine initially said one person was killed in the attack on Selidovay on Wednesday, but officials now say more victims were later pulled from the rubble. 
 
As the world's attention has turned to the Mideast, Ukraine has finally got a political shot in the arm. It came in the form of a visit by Britain's new Foreign Secretary who went there during his first week on the job. CNN's Anna Coren reports from Kyiv. 
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  David Cameron has made a surprise visit to Ukraine in his first trip as Britain's new Foreign Secretary. In his meeting with President Zelenskyy here in Kyiv, he said he wanted this to be his first official working trip. He also visited the port city of Odesa, which comes under regular Russian air strikes. 
 
This, of course, is where Ukraine exports grain via the Black Sea. Britain has been a stalwart of support for Ukraine ever since Russia invaded in February of last year. And David Cameron's visit only reaffirms the U.K.'s commitment. 
 
Well, it comes at a very difficult point in this war that has now been going on for 21 months as of next week. The West's attention has turned to the Middle East. It is distracted, and interest and support is waning. There is genuine fatigue.
 
The counteroffensive, which has been going on now for four months, has not yielded the results or breakthroughs that everyone was hoping for. On top of that, you have the mass casualties on the eastern and southern front. So, the timing of David Cameron's visit couldn't be more important. Let's now have a listen to the exchange between President Zelenskyy and David Cameron. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT:  Thank you for coming. It's very important. Now, you know, the world is not focused on the situation or on our battlefield and in Ukraine. And that's dividing focus really doesn't help. And we are thankful that the U.K. always supported Ukraine. 
 
DAVID CAMERON, BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY:  Thank you. I wanted this to be my first visit, personally. I admire the strength and the determination of the Ukrainian people. And what I want to say by being here is that we will continue to give you the moral support, the diplomatic support, the economic support, but above all, the military support that you need not just this year and next year, but for however long it takes.
 <br>[02:25:00]
 
COREN:  And this is shaping up to be a long war that will require long-term commitment from the West. Ukraine needs weapons, it needs ammunition, it needs arms production on an industrial scale to defeat Russia. Recently we heard from the Commander-in-Chief of the Ukrainian Armed
 
 Forces, General Zalushny, and he gave a blunt assessment of the war. He said Ukraine needs technologically advanced weapons, technological superiority to defeat Russia, which currently it does not have in this war of attrition. Anna Coren, CNN, Kyiv. 
 
BRUNHUBER:  As the crisis in Gaza intensifies, there is growing outrage around the world. But what are Israelis hearing from their government and media? I'll speak with an executive at an Israeli organization that's calling for a ceasefire. That's coming up. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Welcome back to all of you watching us around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is CNN Newsroom. The U.N. Human Rights Chief is calling on Israel to grant his team access to the besieged Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza. He says they need to investigate competing claims about what's happening there after the Israeli army said it found this tunnel at the complex that's been used by Hamas as well as some weapons. The militant group denies all of the allegations and CNN can't confirm either side's claims. 
 
The director of the hospital says the facility is describing desperate conditions inside the facility affecting dozens of premature babies and kidney patients, as well as thousands of people sheltering there. The World Food Programme warns Gaza is facing the immediate possibility of starvation as fuel shortages cripple food production and distribution. 
 
The Israeli non-profit group Gisha is joining the growing number of organizations worldwide calling for an immediate ceasefire. Tania Hary is the Executive Director of Gisha and she joins me now live from Tel Aviv. Thank you so much for being here with us. So, why are you calling for a ceasefire? 
 
TANIA HARY, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, GISHA:  Well, we're calling for a ceasefire really to prevent further atrocities, to ensure the hostages being held inside of Gaza are freed, and so that humanitarian aid can be delivered immediately. 
 <br>[02:30:09]
 
The situation on the ground is really a crisis of proportions we have never seen. It's unprecedented. And the way that this war is being fought is primarily affecting civilians. 
 
At the very outset, Israel made a decision to block electricity supply and entry of fuel, and that's wreaked havoc on every aspect of civilian life inside of Gaza. It's leading to lack of water, hunger, and just, you know, sewage flowing in the streets up to the sea untreated. This is not good for anyone. 
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR:  You've outlined all the horrific conditions facing so many civilians in Gaza. I'm curious what most Israelis are actually hearing about conditions in Gaza right now? HARY:  Well, first of all, there is a little coverage in the Israeli
 
 media about what is happening on the ground in Gaza, including the results of the decision to block electricity and fuel, and how that's impacting the humanitarian situation. I do want to say that, you know, the horrible attacks committed by Hamas and other militants on October 7th, you know, have hardened people's hearts in Israel. 
 
And, you know, I'm Israeli. I understand that initial reaction that people have. But what I'm trying to say is the commission of war crimes doesn't necessarily give credence to the other party to commit war crimes. And, in fact, that further suffering doesn't make any of us safer. 
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yeah, why not? You've said that. I mean, this has all been done in the name of keeping Israel safe. But, you say, it doesn't actually achieve those goals, why? 
 
HARY:  Look, I mean, I think when you're talking about the situation where it looks likely that Gaza won't be inhabitable after this. It's clear also that Israel is losing international legitimacy. None of these things make anyone in the region safer. 
 
If I believed that, you know, Israel was really going to be able to root out any source of danger to its citizens and to the region. I wouldn't be calling for a cease-fire. 
 
But, you know I haven't heard any credible plan for the day after. And with the kind of destruction that we're seeing, I don't see who can take over -- I don't see how we sort of walk this back from the brink to a way that leads it to a better future for the region, not just for Palestinians but also Israelis. 
 
If disease breaks out, which so many homes damage, I mean, we're really talking about a situation already today where it looks like Gaza is going to be uninhabitable, and there's no cease fire on the horizon, from what I can tell at the moment. 
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yeah. I mean, you know, we are showing some pictures of it, you are saying Gaza won't be habitable. I mean, how great a challenge will that be, regardless of how the war sort of ends? Trying to rebuild as an organization that helps Palestinians in Gaza? I mean, the challenge must be -- look insurmountable? 
 
HARY:  Certainly, you know, I'm an optimistic person. I don't think you can do this kind of work without being a bit optimistic. Maybe some would call me naive. 
 
But I think we have no choice at this moment. I mean, you know, life is precious, whether Israeli lives, or Palestinian lives, and I do hope that the international community can rally now to call for a cease-fire and these terrible bombardments. Stop further destruction in the strip. 
 
And also, afterwards, to help rebuild. It is going to be huge, huge job. The sooner we stop the hostilities, the easier that job will be. BRUNHUBER:  For an Israeli organization that helps Palestinians, I
 
 mean, how much more difficult will it be for you to generate support to given that you use the word, hardening of hearts that is happening right now in Israel because of what Hamas did October 7th? 
 
HARY:  Yeah. I mean, you can guess, we are not terribly popular inside of Israel. Some people even call us traitors. But, actually there are people calling for a cease-fire, including the families of hostages that are being held in Gaza. 
 
They want their family members freed and every day of bombardment also puts their lives at risk. So, we have unlikely allies and you know as long as we are able to do our work, we're going to continue to promote human rights and universal values. We think that that's the only way to keep people safe, and holding these internationally respected norms really has ramifications for the world at large. 
 <br>[02:35:05]
 
We really need to hold on to our humanity even at the most darkest moments, at the times when we want to seek vengeance. Vengeance isn't a strategy. We need to really be looking at the bigger picture here, and the safety of all people who are living in the region. 
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yeah, listen, we'll have to leave it there. But thanks so much for speaking with us. 
 
Tania Hary, we really appreciate it. 
 
HARY:  Thank you. 
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Still to come, residents in Iceland on high alert as the threat of a volcanic eruption looms. 
 
Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:37:43]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Demonstrators are taking a stand over climate change in Australia, and they are turning to schools across the country to get their message across. Thousands skipped class in Perth in Western Australia to take part in the nationwide school strikes for climate campaign. Demonstrators are demanding the country's prime minister move away from Australia's reliance on fossil fuels. 
 
Officials say the risk of a volcanic eruption in southern Iceland remains high. Roads have buckled as earthquakes continue to rock the region. There were significant power outages, too. Now, police on Thursday allowed residents were previously evacuated from the area to return to gather some of their belongings. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EINAR DAGBJARTSSON, GRINDAVIK RESIDENT:  It's like a very boring movie but you are stuck there, you can't get out, it's unreal. It's hard to digest. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Earlier this week, about 800 earthquakes were detected in less than 12 hours. 
 
A man charged with attacking Paul Pelosi, the husband of former House speaker Nancy Pelosi was found guilty in federal court on Thursday. A juror convicted David oversold and attempted kidnapping of a federal official. Prosecutors say he broke into the Pelosi home last year with a plan to kidnap Nancy Pelosi, hold her hostage, but she wasn't home. 
 
Paul Pelosi testifying that he violently struck him in the head with a hammer after they struggled. He could face up to 30 years in federal prison, as state trial is expected to start later this month. Nancy Pelosi's office released a statement after the verdict saying the former speakers could grateful for the outpouring of prayers. 
 
The former girlfriend of producer and musician Sean "Diddy" Combs is accusing him of rape and abuse over several years. The R&amp;B singer known as Cassie whose real name is Casandra Ventura filed a lawsuit in federal court Thursday. Combs' attorney denies the allegations.
 
Jean Casarez is in New York with the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This is a civil complaint filed in the Southern District of New York. It is filed under the adult survivors act. And this is an act that allows survivors of sexual assault to file a civil claim for monetary damages no matter when the sexual assault occurred. 
 <br>[02:40:07]
 
That window allows them to have justice, justice in the form of monetary damages. And Casandra Ventura, who was the girlfriend of Sean "Diddy" Combs, she also, according to the complaint, was an employee of his for the duration of those years, she is alleging that she was caught up in a cycle of violence, that there was abuse, it was vicious, and it was controlling. And she alleges that Sean Combs raped her. She alleges that he would beat her until her face and other parts of her body were just bloody. And then, according to the complaints, she would be hidden in a hotel room and apartment or other location until, conceivably, those wounds would heal. 
 
Now, Casandra Ventura alleges that she met Sean Combs when she was 19 years old. He was 37 years old. And because of that age difference and because of his power in the entertainment industry, that allowed for all of this to happen. 
 
In a statement she says, quote, after years in silence and darkness, I am finally ready to tell my story, and to speak up on behalf of myself and for the benefit of other women who face violence and abuse in their relationships. There are though always two sides to every story, and in this case, in
 
 this now lawsuit, we do have a statement from Ben Brafman, he is the attorney representing Sean Combs, and he says, quote, for the past six months, Mr. Combs has been subjected to Ms. Ventura's persistent demand of $30 million under the threat of writing a damaging book about the relationship, which was unequivocally rejected as a blatant blackmail. Despite withdrawing her initial threat, Ms. Ventura has now resorted to filing a lawsuit riddled with baseless and outrageous lies, aiming to tarnish Mr. Combs's reputation and seeking a payday. 
 
The next step in all of this, the defense, Mr. Combs, will be filing in answer to the very serious allegations in this complaint. And then, it will be on to discovery and we will see what evidence there is in this case that is, at this point, will be proceeding to trial. 
 
Jean Casarez, CNN, New York. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Thank you so much for joining us. I'm Kim Brunhuber. I will back in 15 minutes with more CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
"WORLD SPORT" is next. 
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)