Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Kyiv Reeling from Latest Russian Barrage; U.S. Treasury Has Less Cash than 31 Billionaires; UNICEF Announces 13.6 Million Sudanese Children Need Lifesaving Support; Tehran Resumes Executing Protesters; Ukrainian Forces Gearing Up for Counteroffensive; South American Leaders Hold Regional Summit in Brazil; China Sends New Crew with Civilian to Space Station. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired May 30, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST (voice-over):  I'm Becky Anderson, live from Abu Dhabi. This is CONNECT THE WORLD.
 
Coming up this hour, the Kremlin is accusing Ukraine of launching an attack on the Russian capital with drones. 
 
Sudan's rival military factions agree to extend a cease-fire to enable aid deliveries. 
 
China, expanding its space program, launching a fifth manned mission.
 
And the Miami Heat are headed to the NBA finals after beating the Boston Celtics. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Massive and relentless, this is what it looked like earlier, over Kyiv, which is reeling from its third attack in 24 hours. More than 30 
 
 drones were fired at the Ukrainian city, before dawn, Ukraine says it shot most of them down after killing one person, in an apartment building. 
 
This is the 17th attack on the Ukrainian capital just this month. Russia stepping up its bombardment, as Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he now has a date 
 
 for Ukraine's highly anticipated counteroffensive. 
 
Meantime in an unusual sight, the war apparently going to the heart of Russia. Smoke, here rising over Moscow after Russian officials say they 
 
 shot down eight drones. They report minor injuries and minor damage in residential areas. 
 
Now the Russian defense ministry, is blaming Ukraine, calling this a terrorist attack. Ukraine denies being directly involved. CNN's Clare 
 
 Sebastian following all of this from London. 
 
Let's pick apart what we know at this, point a lot going on here. 
 
What do we know about these drones, fired at residential areas of Moscow?
 
We have not seen this before in this war. 
 
Who is responsible, at this point?
 
What more do we know?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  We don't know for sure who is responsible, Becky. We know Russia is very squarely placing the blame on 
 
 Kyiv, calling it a terrorist act. 
 
They are also saying, as you said, they shot down all eight of those drones. Five of them actually were shot, down three of them they say they 
 
 took down using electronic countermeasures. But still had to activate their air defenses. 
 
Three residential buildings were named by state media, two of them in the southwest of Moscow, one on the outskirts of the town near the Vnukovo 
 
 airport. 
 
We're also hearing from a Russian MP, who named a few locations where he said drones were shot down, in the Rublyovka area in southwest Moscow, a 
 
 very elite suburb not far from the president's official country residence of Novo-Ogaryovo. So that is potentially significant. Something to watch 
 
 there as well. 
 
President Putin, who was in the Kremlin at the time according to a spokesperson, we're getting the first comments from him. He's taking a 
 
 somewhat familiar path, taking the accusations that tend to be leveled against Russia with good reason and turning them back on Ukraine. Take a 
 
 listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator):  Kyiv chose the path of intimidation of Russian citizens and attacks on residential 
 
 buildings. It is a clear sign of terrorist activity. The Moscow air defense system worked satisfactorily. However, there is still work to be done to 
 
 make it better. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN:  Ukraine, he said, is targeting civilians while he maintains that Russia has been using high precision weapons only to target military 
 
 installations and he said decision-making centers. 
 
He also said Russia hit the headquarters of defense intelligence in Ukraine, 2-3 days ago. We have no confirmation of that or even mention of 
 
 it from the Ukrainian side. 
 
Of course it is, as you know, factually incorrect that Russia has not been hitting civilian targets in Ukraine. While on the surface they seem to 
 
 playing this down, saying no damage, the Kremlin spokesperson saying there was no threat to civilians. 
 
Clearly, both civilians and they think the government itself are rattled by this, yet another sign of the war coming home to Russian soil, Becky. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
ANDERSON:  Yes, no, it's clear in Kyiv, certainly in Ukraine who is responsible for the latest attacks there. Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he now 
 
 has a date for this counteroffensive that we have been anticipating. 
 
What do we know?
 
SEBASTIAN:  He says the decision has been made about when it's going to start, when the troops are going to. Move He's obviously not for obvious 
 
 reasons, going to disclose the date or the whereabouts of that counteroffensive. 
 
But there does seem to be an advancement. Only a couple weeks, ago he was in the U.K., when he was saying we need a bit more time. Obviously since 
 
 then they've taken deliver of more Western weapons. 
 
We saw over the weekend, the commander in chief of the Ukrainian armed forces released this epic sort of movie style, almost trailer for the 
 
 counter offensive showcasing Ukrainian troops. 
 
This is the exact, video that I'm talking. About showcasing Western weapons on display. They're HIMARS Leopard tanks, things like that, saying the time 
 
 has come to take back what's ours.
 
So they are letting the suspense, build about this counteroffensive. Of course we, see as well, actions in the field, an increase in strikes on 
 
 Russian military installations, far behind the front lines. Mariupol, Berdyansk, Russian occupied cities, within Ukraine. 
 
These are something that military analysts interpret as a shaping, softening operations, probing Russian defenses ahead of this upcoming 
 
 counteroffensive. So it would seem we are getting closer. 
 
ANDERSON:  Clare Sebastian monitoring what is going on on the ground from London, thank you, Clare. 
 
Weeks of negotiations, intense negotiations, in the meantime, in Washington. Finally, coming to an end, President Biden and House Republican 
 
 leaders reached an agreement in principle to address the country's debt limit and to cap spending. 
 
This drama is far from, over congressional leaders on both sides of the political aisle have spent the last two days trying to convince enough 
 
 members of their own parties, to vote for this. 
 
Not everyone is happy, with what is in the bill. If they can't agree, there is a risk of a federal default. That of course, could have ripple effects 
 
 not just in America but around the world. 
 
Arlette Saenz is standing by in Washington, for you.
 
It was Janet Yellen who said this could be catastrophic, not just for the U.S. but for the global economy. 
 
What is in this bill and what are the fights over at this point?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Becky, both the White House and Republican leadership up on Capitol Hill are really facing an uphill climb, 
 
 trying to garner enough support to get this agreement into legislation and across the finish line. 
 
We have heard some frustration from both the conservative wing of the Republican and also progressives in the Democratic Party. Each with their 
 
 own issues with this bill. Republicans, some of, them feel there is not enough cuts to spending in this agreement that was hammered out between 
 
 President Biden and House Speaker Kevin McCarthy. 
 
This afternoon, there will be a key test for this agreement, as the House Rules Committee is set to hold a hearing to consider this measure. At least 
 
 two Republicans on that committee have already said they oppose the bill. 
 
So right now they are watching to see whether there will be any further Republican -- removal -- or Republicans who oppose that bill and whether 
 
 that might solve this piece of legislation, in that committee. 
 
On the Democratic side, we have heard from progressives, who are very visibly frustrated, with the fact that this bill includes tougher work 
 
 requirements for some recipients of food stamps. 
 
The White House has argued to them, they need to think about what isn't in the bill. The fact that the White House was able to keep even tougher work 
 
 requirements for other social safety net programs like Medicaid. 
 
President Biden, has said he feels very good about the prospects of this. Bill but it is clear that the next few days, will be very challenging as 
 
 they are eyeing a vote in the House tomorrow. 
 
And then, the bill would still need to make its way over to the, Senate where any one senator could stall proceedings. These are very critical days 
 
 as they are trying to meet that June 5th deadline, that Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen outlined last week. 
 
ANDERSON:  Arlene (sic), it's always a pleasure, thank you very much indeed. 
 
It is just after 10 o'clock in the morning in Washington just after -- just before 10 past 6 in the UAE. 
 
Just to demonstrate to you how dire the situation is on Capitol Hill, the latest federal data show that the U.S. Treasury had just $38.8 billion  in 
 
 cash. For context, 31 of the world's billionaires are each worth more than the Treasury has in its account right now. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
ANDERSON:  Some of them are worth much more than that. Elon Musk, $185 billion  worth of net worth. And Jeff Bezos, $144 billion. 
 
To escalating tensions In Kosovo now, NATO says 30 of its peacekeepers were injured on Monday in clashes with Serb protesters in northern Kosovo. The 
 
 Italian defense ministry says protesters threw Molotov cocktails and other objects at the peacekeeping force known as K4. 
 
Serbia's defense minister, however, has a very different view of events, saying many protesters were injured, in the clashes and accused K4 of using 
 
 flash grenades when the peaceful protesters decided to disperse. CNN's Scott McLean joining us from London.
 
Tempers flaring, tensions have been simmering in the region for some time now. Just explain. 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, so Becky, what you need to understand is that in 2008, Kosovo declared its independence from Serbia. 
 
 That independence has been recognized by more than 100 countries around the. World 
 
But obviously, Serbia is not one of. Them and like so many of the problems in Eastern Europe, this one also has to do with ethnicity. The vast 
 
 majority of people in Kosovo are  ethnic Albanians. 
 
But there is a majority Serb population in a handful of municipalities, mostly in the northern part of Kosovo. So a decade ago, Kosovo and Serbia 
 
 actually agreed. They agreed again earlier this year to something similar, to basically make these regions semiautonomous. 
 
But that has never actually been implemented on the ground. So last month during local elections, ethnic Serbs in that area boycotted local 
 
 elections. You can imagine what happened next. You get a whole bunch of ethnic Albanian mayors that were elected there. 
 
So last week you started to see Serbian protesters, ethnics Serb protesters, blocking those mayors from trying to even get in the buildings 
 
 they had been elected to serve. Now obviously, things have escalated. 
 
You have differing stories between what the Serbian defense, officials are saying and what Italians are saying as well; 30 NATO peacekeepers, 
 
 according to the force called K4 had been injured here, sustaining burns and broken bones and trauma wounds because of these incendiary devices. 
 
You can see from the video people are trying to push forward on those shields. I want to show you another video, that actually shows the moment 
 
 some of these explosions actually go off. Watch. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEKSANDAR VUCIC, SERBIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  I am urging the Serbs in Kosovo not to get into a conflict with NATO, not because I'm 
 
 afraid but because any of us are afraid, none of us personally have anything to lose. But because that is what Kosovo's prime minister wants 
 
 most. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCLEAN:  Serbian president Aleksandar Vucic explaining his point of, view. He actually canceled a planned trip today to meet with the ambassador from 
 
 Russia, also a handful of Western ambassadors, who will surely try to convince him to try to cool down the temperature in that region. 
 
The U.S. is condemning what happened, so has the Italians and the Germans. For his part Albin Kurti, the prime minister of Kosovo, called what 
 
 happened "fascist violence," referring to the Serb protesters. 
 
He also said that the basic agreement, referring to the agreement earlier this, year which would have implemented some of these autonomous regions, 
 
 ought to be put into place. 
 
But he tweeted that, in English, not in Albanian. And the reality, like so many things in this region, is more complicated because while he's saying 
 
 this at home, he is facing a whole litany of other pressures, locally, where that agreement is not so popular. 
 
ANDERSON:  Scott, thank you. 
 
Scott McLean, on the story for you, with some really important context there. 
 
More than 13 million children, and I repeat, 13 million children in Sudan need urgent life saving support. That is according to UNICEF. The conflict 
 
 between Sudan's armed forces and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces, is now in its seventh week. 
 
On Monday in Jeddah, the warring factions agreed to extend the cease-fire, mediated by Saudi Arabia and the United States. But to none of the 
 
 agreement so far have stopped the fighting. 
 
U.S. and Saudi say both of the factions are significantly impeding, delivery of humanitarian aid. CNN international correspondent David 
 
 McKenzie is standing by in Johannesburg. 
 
And that aid is in such dire need. You saw those numbers there. From UNICEF.
 
David, what impact have these breakdowns in these cease-fires had on the humanitarian aid?
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, it's called a humanitarian catastrophe frankly.
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
MCKENZIE:  And we've seen this over the many weeks of this conflict, Becky. And you see those pictures of the representatives, of the Rapid Support 
 
 Forces and the military in Sudan, signing in Jeddah under the auspices of the Saudis and the Americans making a show of continued cease-fire that 
 
 they have extended for five days, from today. 
 
But again, those cease-fires are frequently being in name only, both sides have been accused by international observers of repeatedly breaking those 
 
 cease-fires, of repeatedly looting hospitals, civilians, killing civilians and attacking civilians. 
 
The World Health Organization says there is a pattern of rape, of young women and girls during this conflict, placing blame on the warring parties. 
 
 There's a general sense of chaos in many parts of this country, which was looking to a democratic transition just several weeks ago. 
 
And you mentioned UNICEF, the U.N. children's agency, saying that more than 13 million children need lifesaving support. Now that is just, not just any 
 
 support, lifesaving support. They say that hundreds of children have been, killed many have been maimed in this conflict. Here is the chief spokesman 
 
 of UNICEF, James Elder. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES ELDER, SPOKESPERSON, UNICEF:  More children today in Sudan require lifesaving support, than ever before. So we now have a staggering, sobering 
 
 13.6 million children in Sudan who urgently require assistance. That is more than the entire population of Sweden, of Portugal, of Rwanda. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCKENZIE:  Now in Khartoum, at least, the capital World Food Programme was able to get lifesaving support, to around half a million people over the 
 
 weekend. But because of the ongoing fights, in different parts of the country, it is extremely difficult to get that aid. 
 
And extremely difficult to get information out, due to the violence and the breakdown of telecommunications from Sudan -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  David McKenzie is on the story. 
 
Just ahead, when speaking up can get you killed. The fallout from families as Iran resumes executing protesters. 
 
Plus --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  "We have a clear motivation," the commander says, "defend our lands. This 
 
 is our nation." 
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Ukraine's troops, ready and willing for what now seems to be an imminent counteroffensive. Officials in Kyiv say they are 
 
 going to get back everything that Russia has taken. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Imagine seeing your loved ones tortured because you protested against what you saw as injustice. And then your own country decides you 
 
 are too dangerous to live. 
 
Human rights groups say this scenario is being played out again in Iran as it cracks down on dissent. Now you will recall the death of Mahsa Amini, in 
 
 police custody last year, which sparked months of massive protest. My colleague, CNN's Salma Abdelaziz, shows us the latest fallout. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN REPORTER (voice-over):  Outside of jail near Tehran, families of prisoners gathered chant, "Do not hang them." 
 
Their pleas come as Iran resumes the execution of protesters after a months-long hiatus. 
 
The brutal practice restarted this month with the hanging of three young men accused of killing three members of the security forces during 
 
 antigovernment protests in November.
 
The news sparked more demonstrations. But activist and human rights groups say the allegations against the trio are baseless.
 
Majid Kazemi was forced to watch video of interrogators torturing his brother and he was subjected to at least 15 mock executions according to 
 
 Amnesty International.
 
In an audio note obtained by the organization, he maintained his innocence. CNN cannot independently verify the clip.
 
"They kept beating me and ordering me to say, 'This weapon is mine,'" he says. 
 
"I told them I would say whatever they wanted, just please leave my family alone."
 
Before his execution, the family of 36-year-old Saleh Mirhashemi, a karate coach from Isfahan, tried to draw attention to his plight. This picture of 
 
 his father spread on social media. 
 
"My son is innocent," the sign reads.
 
But to no avail, activists shared this heartbreaking video they say is Mirhashemi's dad, hugging his picture as he lay by his son's grave.
 
Iran has not responded to CNN's request for comment.
 
The total number of demonstrators known to have been executed since last year now stands at seven, according to CNN reporting and more executions 
 
 are likely imminent.
 
"Over 100 protesters have been sentenced to death or are facing charges punishable by death," says this human rights activist.
 
MAHMOOD AMIRY-MOGHADDAM, DIRECTOR, IRAN HUMAN RIGHTS NGO:  When authorities fear protests or right after protests, number of executions go up. The aim 
 
 is to create fear in the society to prevent more protests.
 
ABDELAZIZ:  Do you expect that the number of executions is going to rise even more this year?
 
AMIRY-MOGHADDAM:  It is rising already. Unless the international community takes strong move against these executions, we might be facing a very large 
 
 number of executions in the coming months.
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice-over):  Rights groups say that Mohammad Ghobadlou, a 22- year-old protester with a mental health issue, could be one of the next victims of Iran's execution machine.
 
Activists are ringing the alarm. They say yet another Iranian faces death just for daring to speak out.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ANDERSON:  Salma Abdelaziz joining us now live. 
 
Important stuff in that report. As you say, Iran's execution machine is operating once again. 
 
What if anything, can the international community do at this point, to help protesters who are facing death, Salma?
 
ABDELAZIZ:  What's interesting, Becky, is rights groups activists. They all say the same thing to me. They believed that now that the world's attention 
 
 had drawn away from the demonstrations, remember last, year at the height of the protests around Mahsa Amini, there was a great deal of international 
 
 pressure.
 
New sanctions were being put in place. We were covering this extensively on your show. Other international media was covering it as well. Now months 
 
 later, after the brutal crackdown, with protesters being forced back home in the international community, is eyes are elsewhere essentially. 
 
Iran resuming this brutal crackdown very quietly. So they tell us, spotlight, is the number one thing that they need. They fear -- and I'm 
 
 going to give you another number here -- they fear that the number of executions this year will rise even more. 
 
If you compare the number of executions from 2021 to 2022, there was more than an 80 percent spike. that's according to Amnesty International. More 
 
 than 570 people executed, last year. Yes, most were due to violent crimes or drug related offenses. But the fear is, Becky, that this year, that 
 
 number, 570, could rise even more. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
ANDERSON:  Salma, thank you. 
 
In India, a 16 year old girl was brutally murdered, in public sparking renewed outrage over violence against women in the country. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  This video shows the moments before this young girl was stabbed and bludgeoned to death in a busy alleyway, on Sunday as 
 
 multiple people walked by. The incident just the latest in a long line of killings and rapes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  CNN's Vedika Sud joining me now with more on the investigation.
 
You're in New Delhi. And more on the growing anger, over gender violence, in India. 
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Absolutely, that's been a struggle for India, hasn't it, Becky?
 
We've spoken about such cases so often. But just to put this into perspective, this is in New Delhi. And this has happened on Sunday evening. 
 
 A lot of people have been commenting, on this, some of them calling it brutal, shocking, criminal and barbaric. 
 
That is the outrage on social media. And offline. You have the chairperson of the Delhi Commission for, Women say she's never seen something as 
 
 frightening as this. 
 
We were at the scene of the crime this afternoon, my team and I. We spent a couple of hours there. We were with the parents as well. The mother, 
 
 completely distraught. She could not leave her bed. She is in shock. The father in tears. We did speak to him and here is what the father of the 
 
 victim, Genek Raj, had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GENEK RAJ, VICTIM'S FATHER (through translator):  I feel lifeless. I miss her so much. She was such a good child. 
 
What to do? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD:  What's even more shocking, than the crime, itself is that, Becky, there were at least a dozen people, bystanders, people who are crossing 
 
 that lane when they saw this incident take place. Only one tried to stop this man, the accused, from murdering the woman. 
 
The others just looked on and then just walked off. The insensitivity of these people is equally shocking. In ways, they are as culpable as the man 
 
 himself, in terms of this crime being committed. 
 
That, the father of the victim, has made it very clear. He will not settle for anything less than the death penalty, for the accused. The frequency of 
 
 crimes, also, Becky, in India, has been on the rise. 
 
When you compare figures from 2020 to that of 2013, there's been a 20 percent surge. Like I said, gender crimes really tops the list in many of 
 
 the states in India. This has been extremely shocking, extremely disturbing, for me and my team as well. 
 
We have never seen something as brutal as this, in the last three years, across reporting here from New Delhi -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Vedika, thank you. 
 
We will be back with more news after this.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Welcome back, I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, the time here is just half past 6 in the evening. You're watching CONNECT THE 
 
 WORLD. Your headlines this hour. 
 
Russia says it could take severe measures after today's unprecedented drone attack on residential areas of Moscow. The Russian defense ministry says 
 
 all eight drones were destroyed and reported minor injuries and damages. Now Moscow blames the attack on Ukraine, which denies direct involvement. 
 
Meantime, Ukraine's capital is reeling from its third attack in just 24 hours. Ukraine says, it shot down most of the 31 drones fired at Kyiv 
 
 earlier today. Officials say one person was killed by debris that fell on an apartment building. Several people there were injured. 
 
ANDERSON:  President Zelenskyy says he has decided on the dates for Ukraine's counteroffensive against Russian forces. But he is not announcing 
 
 any specifics. Ukrainian troops are preparing, despite the latest wave of Russian attacks. 
 
CNN senior international correspondent Fred Pleitgen with this report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  Terrified children running for their lives, as Russia unleashed another massive aerial attack on Ukrainian cities. 
 
But Ukraine says its aerial defense managed to shoot down all the ballistic missiles filed at the capital Kyiv and now, the Ukraine's forces seem 
 
 nearly ready for their own, much anticipated counteroffensive.
 
This weekend, Ukraine's top general, Valerii Zaluzhnyi, releasing this video, showing troops gearing up for battle and showcasing modern Western 
 
 weapons with a clear message, "It is time to take back what is ours."
 
And that's what these guys are training for. This is a unit of the offensive guard of Ukraine's interior mission.
 
"We have a clear motivation," he says. 
 
"We defend our land. This is our nation, our homeland."
 
Defensive guard is mustering tens of thousands of troops, they say, training to storm trenches and evacuee casualties, which they know they are 
 
 bound to have in the tough battles ahead.
 
What these guys are practicing here, no doubt, will become a reality for the Ukrainian armed forces very soon as Kyiv says it will start a massive 
 
 counteroffensive to take back all of the territory, including Crimea. The Ukrainians already seem to be stepping up strikes on possible Russian 
 
 supply lines in occupied areas. 
 
Russian installed officials claiming Ukrainian missile attacks against targets around Berdyansk and Mariupol in southeastern Ukraine in the past 
 
 days.
 
"It's just the beginning," a top advisor to the Ukraine's president tells me. 
 
"Everything that is happening now is a precursor to a counterattack, a necessary precursor were the intensity of fire increases."
 
And he lays a bold aims for the counteroffensive.
 
It will end, undoubtedly, on the borders of Ukraine as they were in 1991, with the de-occupation of Crimea and with the beginning of a massive 
 
 process of transformation of Russia's political system.
 
But for now, resilience remains key for people of the Ukrainian cities. These newlyweds had just tied the knot and were on their way to their 
 
 celebration when the air raid sirens went off. So they just continue to celebrate in the bomb shelter, vowing not to let Russian rockets ruin the 
 
 best day of their lives -- Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Let's get you up to, speed on some of the other stories on our radar, right now. 
 
South American leaders are gathering for a summit in Brazil to discuss reviving a regional alliance, once known as the Union of South American 
 
 Nations. Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro is on board, calling the union necessary. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Brazil's president in organized talks of partnerships are needed for economic development and defending democracy. 
 
A driver navigates through heavy flames and through smoke, in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia as hundreds of firefighters, battle multiple 
 
 ferocious wildfires. Prime minister, Justin Trudeau, calls the fires there incredibly serious. They burned more than 100 square kilometers and forced 
 
 16,000 people from their homes. 
 
Beijing says that Tesla CEO Elon Musk is willing to expand his business in China after meeting with the country's foreign minister earlier. China's 
 
 welcomed Musk and other business figures to the capital, saying, quote, "We are happy to see foreign companies invest in China." 
 
That's your radar for you. Still to come tonight --
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Well, this is Miami last night and the party went on for some time. I'm talking sunrise. 
 
Why?
 
Because their team is going to the NBA finals. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Just before, that China sends a new crew to its space station. This time, its first civilian astronaut. More than that, after this. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  China has sent a new crew of astronauts into space, including its first civilian astronaut. They launched earlier today, successfully, 
 
 docked the Chinese space station. The civilian on board is a professor, he will operate payloads for space experiments. 
 
This crew will take three astronauts, who have been at China's newly minted and completed space station since November. Joining us now, CNN 
 
 international correspondent, Will Ripley, who has been keeping an eye on what is going on. In space. 
 
What can you tell us about China's first civilian up there in space?
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, as you mentioned, Becky, he's a professor at a very prestigious aeronautics 
 
 university, Beihang University, he is also someone who studied in the West. He pursued his post doctoral studies in Canada. 
 
What is getting a lot of attention, on Chinese social media at least, is the fact that not only is he the first civilian, all the other astronauts 
 
 before him have been members of the People's Liberation Army but also he wears glasses. 
 
This is something that China had not allowed, up until now. Normally astronauts had to have perfect vision. So people who, you know, rely on 
 
 glasses had been watching this and actually posting on social media about how this now opens up the potential for --
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
RIPLEY:  -- even more people to have that dream of becoming an astronaut someday. And China's space program, Becky, it's remarkable how quickly it 
 
 is growing. You think about the fact that they are now going to have a permanent presence in space; three astronauts, rotating in these five 
 
 months. 
 
Rotations in low Earth orbit, for at least the next decade, potentially even longer than the International Space Station, due to retire by 2030 or 
 
 so or after 2030. It's pretty extraordinary, especially considering the fact that the United States essentially banned China from the International 
 
 Space Station more than a decade ago. 
 
China is still making very rapid progress, signing a lot of space cooperation agreements with other countries right now. 
 
ANDERSON:  Will, thank you. Amazing stuff. 
 
(SPORTS) 
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END