Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israeli Tanks, Troops Line Gaza Border For Possible Incursion; Detroit Synagogue President Murdered; House Paralyzed With No End In Sight To Leadership Vacuum; IDF Chief Of Staff: "We'll Enter The Gaza Strip"; Twenty Aid Trucks Deliver Medical Supplies, Food, Water To Gaza; Inside Gaza: The Suffering Of Children. Aired 5-6p ET

Aired October 21, 2023 - 17:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[17:01:33] 
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN HOST: You are live in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Jim Acosta in Washington. My colleague Erin Burnett is live in Tel Aviv, Israel. 
 
And we have several major developments that we're following right now. A short time ago, Israel's military announced it is increasing air strikes beginning today and says it will launch a ground incursion when conditions are right. 
 
This is new CNN video from just outside the Gaza border. Dozens of Israeli tanks, armored personnel carriers, even bulldozers are gathered in this area and several other groupings are nearby -- some of the video you're seeing right there.
 
After days of agonizing delays, humanitarian aid has rolled into Gaza for the first time since the war began two weeks ago. The Rafah border crossing between Egypt and Gaza is closed again, after the 20-truck convoy made its way through. 
 
Relief agencies say many more massive shipments of water, fuel, and food are urgently needed and that Gaza's hospital system is teetering on the verge of collapse. 
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: Well, an American mother and daughter are one step closer to being back home in America, a day after being freed by Hamas. Judith Tai Raanan and her 17-year-old daughter Natalie are reuniting with family today at an Israeli military base here. 
 
Natalie's father says he is expecting her home by Tuesday. That is when she will turn 18. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
URI RAANAN, FATHER OF RELEASED HOSTAGE: I've been waiting for this moment for a long time, two weeks. I've not been sleeping for two weeks. Tonight I'm going to sleep good. 
 
I spoke with my daughter earlier today. she sounds very good. She looks very good. She was very happy. And she's waiting to come home. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BURNETT: You know, that's Natalie's father. Her brother, Ben, told me that he -- he thinks it's going to be a long, long process, but that he is ready to hug his sister again. 
 
Palestinian health officials meantime say that more than 4,300 people have been killed in strikes and as Jim just said, those strikes are anticipated to increase tomorrow, says the IDF. The number of dead expected to rise. 
 
So, let's begin this hour with our own Jeremy Diamond in the Israeli city of Ashkelon, just south of here. Jeremy what are you seeing tonight? 
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Erin, it is what we are seeing and also what we are hearing from top Israeli generals. Tonight, General Halevi, the chief of staff of the Israel Defense Forces making very clear that his forces will, indeed, be entering Gaza. And also telling those troops that their task will be to, quote, destroy Hamas operatives and infrastructure, and making clear that while they understand that Hamas militants have certainly prepared for Israeli ground forces to enter the Gaza Strip with booby-traps, with tunnels, and with other reinforced positions, he said that "we, too are prepared for them". 
 
And on the ground here, Erin, what we are seeing is a massive buildup, not only of troops, but of armored vehicles, tanks, et cetera. You can see some of the video that we shot today as we were driving along the border with Gaza. We found not only one of these groupings where you can see in this video, dozens of tanks and armored personnel carriers, as well as those D-9 bulldozers which are used to clear the roads of IEDs and other obstacles. 
 
But we saw four different groupings of this very same size. So altogether, hundreds of tanks, armored vehicles and those bulldozers, as well as infantry, who were also staged alongside those vehicles. 
 <br>[17:05:00]
 
DIAMOND: So certainly this ground invasion does appear to be imminent. When exactly it starts still remains a question. 
 
And as they prepare for that, certainly Israeli politicians and generals have been preparing the public here in Israel for a long and drawn-out war. One that will certainly be costly in terms of the lives of Israeli soldiers. 
 
But there is also, of course, the issue of civilian casualties inside of Gaza as we have watched as hundreds of women and children have already been killed in those air strikes, which as Jim just noted are now intensifying ahead of this potential ground invasion. 
 
We spoke yesterday with a lieutenant colonel who is commanding a special forces unit, a reconnaissance unit preparing to go into Gaza, and one of the things that he told me was very striking which is that he said, Israel has declared the northern Gaza strip a no-go zone, effectively, telling civilians to move south. 
 
And he said that anyone who has chosen to stay there has chosen a side. Now, he did say that his units will still work to minimize civilian casualties, but certainly, if that is the message that Israeli troops are getting, that could potentially lead to a situation where troops going in consider anyone who is moving to be a target, Erin. 
 
BURNETT: Absolutely, Jeremy. And just speaking to someone in northern Gaza earlier today, three young children, he says he's staying because it's his home. So, it goes to show you, people still are staying. As President Biden just moments ago was asked, are you encouraging the Israelis to delay invasion, as he left church today in Delaware. His response, I'm talking to the Israelis. 
 
So, still, that lack of clarity on exactly when, but as Jeremy points out, they are ready. They are ready. We heard from some members, and some people in the IDF, their children, they got a 24-hour leave yesterday, returning early today, ready to be sent in if that was the call tonight. 
 
And of course, we shall see if and when that comes. Jeremy, thank you. 
 
And joining me now is a father who is enduring his own private hell. Shai Wenkert found out that his 22-year-old son Omer had been kidnapped. He found out because he saw a video from Hamas. 
 
And I want to just say, first of all, I'm profoundly sorry for what you and your family are going through. 
 
I've had a chance to speak with Elan and Marie Regev and I know that their son was with your son together. I hope they are together now. They're going to come home soon. You've seen those two Americans, the mother and daughter who were released. Did that give you hope? 
 
SHAI WENKERT, SON OMER WAS KIDNAPPED NEAR NOVA MUSIC FESTIVAL: Thank you for the interview. First, I want to say that the situation, it's very difficult. All the civilians were kidnapped from Israel, it's not a global event, it happened in Israel. There is no possible situation in the free world in 2023 that other countries will do a selection and take out hostages and civilians out from Gaza. 
 
They all have to come out as a group, as one group. We demand to be -- to get humanitary (ph) against humanitary. I'm happy for the family that they went home, and now the civilians of Gaza is getting humanitarian, but I think we have to pressure more. My son needs medicine. 
 
BURNETT: Yes. 
 
WENKERT: And Hamas won't let the Red Cross to get in. He needs a doctor attention, and it's very difficult situation. All countries that are going to do -- all the countries that are going to do a selection will be out of the league of the free world. 
 
BURNETT: I know you tried to rescue Omer, Shai. He was seeking shelter, and you heard this was happening, you were able to get there to try to help him, as the attack was still unfolding. He was trying to get to shelter. Can you tell me exactly what happened? 
 
WENKERT: Yes, when the Hamas start to strike in the streets, Omer went to a shelter, it was -- he stayed there for almost two hours. We were in contact with him on mobile. He told us there is (INAUDIBLE). He asked for where the aircraft, we used to such a situation in Israel. And suddenly he told us, there is a gun shooting. Mom, I'm frightened. But I will stay until someone will take me out. 
 <br>[17:09:54]
 
WENKERT: And a friend that was in the shelter told us that Omer went out, he didn't stay, maybe this is how he saved his life, because we know he's kidnapped. We have a video, Omer is alive, the Hamas is responsible to bring him back alive. It's very difficult situation. I don't know -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BURNETT: Shai, no one can truly imagine -- 
 
WENKERT: It's very painful, and talking from pain and anger. Bring Omer back home. And all the civilians. The civilians that came to a fest, they kidnapped them and the cities around Gaza, they came inside their home and did a massive attack, it's not a humanity. 
 
This is a new enemy. We have to deal it -- we have to deal it all the world. I want to ask also the reporters. You have a mission. You are speaking around the world, you have to deal it all around every broadcast, and you have to influence. You have to influence the -- making decisions. We have to do it, we have to do it now. 
 
BURNETT: Shai, I can -- as a parent, as anyone watching as a parent -- only imagine -- possibly imagine the pain that you feel and the fear and the grief and the anger. Has the Israeli government given you any updates at all on Omer's condition? I know you found out from a Hamas video that he was taken hostage. 
 
I've seen that video, he's in the truck. But have you gotten any updates from the Israeli government? 
 
WENKERT: We got update from the Israeli government, we believe in the Israeli government, we believe in the IDF, they will do the big suggestion and big thought to do everything, to keep everyone safe. 
 
We got informed that Omer was kidnapped and since then, we don't have any information. We didn't get that information we try every day to go to the Red Cross office and the Hamas refuse to do it. There are children, there are women, there are all these sick people that need medical attention. 
 
I don't know where he's staying, I don't believe he's -- he's -- it's a very difficult situation. And I'm sorry, but I'm very painful for this situation and I'm very angry that they are stopping -- the Hamas is stopping the system. So they get humanity, they took out two hostages, but it's not -- it's supposed to be as a one group. (INAUDIBLE) We have to take them all out. 
 
BURNETT: Shai, I just want to, before we go, if there's something that you would want Omer to hear, I know you said a lot, you would want him to hear all of this, but if there's something you want your son to hear now, what would it be? 
 
WENKERT: Omer, I know you are strong. Omer, we are strong, we are waiting for you at home. And you will be back. We are doing everything to take you out. We are waiting for you -- all the family. And I think all Israel and all the world, we are waiting for you Omer. Come home now. 
 
BURNETT: Shai, thank you very much for sharing that with everyone, as painful as it is, I know you want everyone to hear, so thank you. 
 
Shai Wenkert is Omer's dad. 
 
WENKERT: Thank you very much. 
 
BURNETT: We'll have much more from Israel straight ahead. 
 <br>[17:14:10]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ACOSTA: We are following breaking news. 
 
The Michigan attorney general confirms a Detroit synagogue president has been murdered after being found stabbed multiple times outside of her home. 
 
CNN's Polo Sandoval joins us now with more on this. Polo, what's the latest? 
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Dana Nessel, the attorney general for the state of Michigan, Jim, taking to social media, saying that she is shocked, saddened, and just quite frankly heartbroken to learn about the murder of her friend's death, saying that Samantha Woll was a kind person, and often turned to her faith and also activism to make her community a better place. 
 
We've since learned that Samantha Woll also served on the board of directors, mainly as president of the Isaac Agree Downtown Synagogue in Detroit for quite some time here. So that house of worship certainly shaken to its core right now and grieving, as we try to learn more about this murder. 
 
Here's what Detroit police are saying. That it was early this morning, their officers were dispatched to an area just northeast of the downtown Detroit area, where they found an unresponsive person, eventually learning that they had been stabbed to death. 
 
Now, investigators at this point saying that they do not yet know of a possible motive here, as they -- as its investigation is still in its early stages. But back to what I said earlier, this is really shaking the community to its core, really all throughout several different layers of government, but also those who knew Samantha Woll. 
 
I want you to hear directly from MoReno Taylor (ph) as he told my colleague Nicole Grether about his history working alongside Woll in previous campaigns. 
 <br>[17:19:52]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MORENO TAYLOR II, WORKED With SAMANTHA WOLL: I was always taught, you know, in these positions, that you always look out for your teammates, you know, so you know, I always, again, saw her as kind of a little sister, and I wanted to make sure that, you know, we protected one another, you know, whether we were out on doors, whether we were at events, you know, trying to watch out for crazy stuff. 
 
Because as we all know, last campaign cycle was extremely tense, and so, we got to know each other very well, 
 
And it is honestly a devastating loss, you know as someone who has sisters, this is just kind of one of those things you can never really -- can never really prepare for. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SALVADOR: So again, based on what we've learned so far, Samantha Woll, before serving as board president there for that synagogue, also was politically active, serving on multiple campaigns. 
 
In fact Representative Elissa Slotkin of Michigan also taking to social media, saying that Woll worked as her deputy district director, also that it came naturally for her to help her community. 
 
So, there are still so many questions, but then goes without paying, certainly, Jim, so much grief about this murder, as the investigation is still in its very early stages, as we try to learn more about the death of this woman who served at president of the Isaac Agree Downtown Synagogue in Detroit. 
 
ACOSTA: And polo, we have to state the obvious, obviously this is happening -- this has taken place in the middle of all these raised tensions over what's taking place in the Middle East right now between Israel and Hamas.
 
But at this point, we have not heard about a motive from investigators in Detroit, is that right? 
 
SANDOVAL: Correct. Police were very clear in stating that at this point, they do not yet have a motive in this killing. 
 
Now, I should mention that in the conversation that our colleague Nicole Grether, one of our producers had with Mr. Taylor, who we just heard from, actually asked if he knew of any potential threats that his friend had received, and he said no. But again, this is still in its very early stages, a lot of questions that need answering in this one, especially given that climate that you just mentioned. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. And obviously there are concerns that this might be some sort of hate crime or related to what's been taking place and all of the raised tensions here in the United States, obviously. But we have to hear from the police first, so I want to caution our viewers that we can't draw those connections yet until we hear from investigators and have that piece of the investigation confirmed. 
 
Polo Sandoval, thank you very much for your time. We appreciate it. We'll stay on top of it -- 
 
SANDOVAL: Thanks Jim.
 
ACOSTA: -- throughout these hours in the -- hours ahead here on CNN NEWSROOM.
 
We'll be right back. 
 
Back in a moment. 
 <br>[17:22:30]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ACOSTA: Frustrations and divisions are intensifying up on Capitol Hill, as House Republicans continue their struggle to elect a speaker. And there doesn't appear to be any end to the impasse in sight. 
 
Let's discuss more with senior political analyst and senior editor at "The Atlantic", Ron Brownstein. 
 
Ron, what a mess. We tried to talk to a Congressman Tim Burchett about this earlier in the last hour. He acknowledged this is not a good look. 
 
And I played this for Burchett, and he -- he said he's been called worse, but let's listen to what Kevin McCarthy said about these eight Republicans who voted to oust him and I'll ask you about it on the other side. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA): The Crazy Eights" led by Gaetz, the amount of damage they have done to this party and to this country is insurmountable. We are in a very bad position as a party, one that has won the majority, one that America has entrusted us with that a simple eight people have put us in this place. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: Ron, I thought the Crazy Eights was a card game I played with my mom when I was a kid. But anyway, putting that to the side, didn't Kevin McCarthy put himself in this place? Didn't he put himself in this position? RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: Yes. He was the ninth,
 
 right? I mean, you know, he put himself in this position lilt rally by accepting the, you know, the demand from his critics on the right that a single member be allowed to propose to vacate the chair, something that had never been successfully done before in the House, but I would argue, that was really just one example in the broader strategy, the strategy throughout his, you know, short-lived speakership was to make concession after concession to the right and expect the members from more competitive districts to go along. 
 
And he did that over and over on, you know, launching the impeachment inquiry without any hard evidence. And I think he gave the eight and their allies every reason to believe that if they pushed hard enough, he would buckle. And then when he didn't, on keeping the government open, they used the weapon that he had provided them all those months ago. 
 
ACOSTA: And the other thing that I guess has to be talked about in all of this is not just whether or not they can get to a candidate who can become Speaker of the House, but what the ground rules will be for that particular speaker. 
 
Is that -- is that new speaker going to have to abide by the rules that McCarthy agreed to, which is that one person can file the motion to vacate or bring a motion to vacate and get you booted out of the job of Speaker. I can't imagine the next person's going to want that. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Yes, well, right, I mean they're certainly not going to want that, Jim, but can they get 217 votes on the floor unless they agree to it? I mean, you know, we don't know whether the dissenters on the right have felt enough pressure to back down on that, but if they hold firm and say, look, we're not voting for you unless you maintain that provision, you're not getting to 217 at that point. And so there, you know, may be no way around it. 
 
ACOSTA: Let's talk about Jim Jordan. The rise of the moderate Republicans, they voted three times to deny him the speakership. Some of these folks were the appropriators, it was sort of like the old establishment Republican Party coming back for some revenge against their MAGA, more MAGA colleagues. Is this the beginning of the establishment Republicans standing up to these hard liners? What do you think? 
 <br>[17:29:52]
 
BROWNSTEIN: Well, maybe it's the limit of how far they would go. I mean to me, the real point of the Jordan attempt was that 90 percent of House Republicans were willing to elevate to the speakership a member who not only supported Trump's efforts to subvert the 2020 election, but was arguably more extensively involved in it, participated in it. 
 
ACOSTA: Right. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: And more broadly than any other single member of Congress. I mean, there is no more dramatic statement of how much of the party has normalized, tried to normalize and whitewash what happened after the 2020 election. 
 
Look at it somewhat similar to what we see in the presidential race, where something like 60 percent or 65 percent of the Republican Party is willing to accept Trump again, despite everything that he did. 
 
The difference, of course, is that in the House, you get even higher than that and still far short, because the majority is so narrow. 
 
But it basically sends the same message about the party that we are in a situation where the bulk of the Republican electorate and the bulk of the Republican leadership is basically saying they do not view the attempt to overturn the 2020 election that culminated in January 6th as disqualifying for leadership.
 
And that is an ominous position for the country to be in. 
 
ACOSTA: And just very quickly, I don't know if you can do this in 30 seconds or less, your sense of President Biden really inserting himself diplomatically, any political risks, inserting himself in Israel and Hamas? 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Sure. There is the complex crisis that Biden has argued that he is suited to handle, because of his long experience in Washington. 
 
If there is any way for him to transmute concern about his age into confidence in his experience, it is exactly through the managing of this kind of very complete crisis that requires him to balance multiple goals, like disabling Hamas, without precipitating a wider war.
 
And keeping open the long-range diplomatic efforts that he has pursued and that Trump pursued to try to reorient the region towards greater normalcy between Israel and its Arab neighbors with the common goal of countering Iran. 
 
ACOSTA: The president just told reporters he's still talking to the Israelis. That dialogue continues. We'll see what kind of impact it has on the situation --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BROWNSTEIN: This is the job he says he was hired to do. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes, right. 
 
Ron Brownstein, always great to talk to you. Wish we had tons of time. Just don't have it this evening. But thanks a lot, as always. We appreciate it. 
 
BROWNSTEIN: Thank you, Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: Still ahead, a spokesman for the IDF says the military will enter Gaza and destroy Hamas, as troops build up on the border with Gaza. The latest on the escalation is just ahead, next. Stay with us.
 
Thanks a lot. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[17:36:38]
 
BURNETT: The chief of the Israel Defense Forces says its soldiers will, quote, "enter Gaza and destroy Hamas." They've been very clear that they're going into Gaza. 
 
The U.S. and its allies, though, have been urging Israel to set clear goals before launching a ground assault, emphasizing the need to avoid civilian casualties of which, of course, there have already been thousands. 
 
Joining me now, Avi Mayer. He's the editor-in-chief for the "Jerusalem Post." 
 
And, Avi, I really appreciate your time tonight. 
 
Of course, here we are again, after midnight here in Israel. Every night, there is a question, will it be now? What is the latest that you are hearing? 
 
AVI MAYER, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, "JERUSALEM POST": Well, we don't know exactly when this is going to happen. There had been estimates that it would happen over the weekend. We've been hearing similar things like that for the past two weeks. 
 
I think many Israelis are frustrated, because they don't see the ground offensive happening and they do feel Hamas needs to be dealt this devastating blow so they never carry out a massacre like it did on October 7th.
 
But what I'm hearing from military strategists is that they'll go in when they feel the time is right. They don't feel that there's a lot of pressure right now. 
 
They are trying to soften the ground with these air strikes to ensure that the situation is such that when the troops do go in, that it is -- able to proceed as easily as they possibly can, without as much resistance as they would if they didn't have those air strikes. 
 
BURNETT: I mean, if you go add up, since the beginning, it's been House of air strikes there in Gaza, right? And at least -- you may have the very latest numbers. 
 
But they said a few days ago, at least 10 senior Hamas commanders had been taken out. And there have been more since I heard that.
 
I guess the question for you, Avi, from your reporting and your team's reporting is, how much is going to be left to destroy or to deal with when they actually go in? 
 
MAYER: We know that Hamas has entrenched itself in the Gaza Strip, particularly the northern Gaza Strip. That's why that's the territory that is being evacuated of civilians at this time. But they're not all above ground. There's a very intricate network of underground tunnels, command centers, and so on and so forth, that will be much harder for Israel to access from above ground, which is why they really need to go in and do so with ground troops. 
 
Now, of course, we know that will endanger Israeli troops. That is a risk that Israeli military planners are willing to take in order to ensure they are able to totally uproot Hamas' capability to ever carry out a massacre like October 7th ever again. 
 
BURNETT: Someone said to me the other day, we know that not every IDF soldier that goes in is going to come home. And we know that. And there's been an acceptance of that. 
 
Is there a real acceptance of that in Israeli society, though? 
 
MAYER: Look, Israel has dealt with wars, with terrorism, with military operations throughout the 75 years of its existence. 
 
And parents know that, tragically, when they send their children to war, which they do rather frequently, there is a chance they may not come home. 
 
But at the end of the day, that is why the military exists, to ensure that the people of Israel are able to live in safety and security. 
 
It's a risk that is heartbreaking. And there are parents that will end up in mourning. But that's the price we have to pay to live in this land. 
 
BURNETT: So, just to try to understand, we understand President Biden is still speaking to Israelis. There's the belief that he may be having them try to delay, as more American hostages come out. It's unclear what the exact situation is.
 <br>[17:40:05]
 
But obviously, as time goes on, you've got protests across the Middle East. You have -- you don't have to go to social media to see a lot of the backlash that is out there. 
 
Has any of that -- obviously, you have a society in Israel that has very strongly different views on the Palestinian issue coming into this horrific attack. 
 
Immediately after, right after was this sense of, no matter what it takes, all of society came together. 
 
Two weeks after, is that still the case, or do you think that as time passes, you start to see some of those fissures in Israeli society as well? 
 
MAYER: No, it's absolutely still the case.
 
And if we were a country that was deeply divided before the massacre on October 7th, we no longer are. We are totally unified in our determination to deal Hamas a devasting blow so that it never has the ability to carry out a massacre like October 7th ever again.
 
In fact, you've seen many of the protest movements that had come up when it was around the judicial reform and these internal debates in Israel, mobilized to support the military to sign up for the draft, as they have in tremendous, tremendous numbers. 
 
People who said they would not serve under this prime minister are now flooding the ranks of Israel's military to ensure they're able to participate in keeping their families safe. 
 
BURNETT: It seems pretty clear from the IDF that they want the hostages back, but that if there's a choice, the most important thing is to decapitate Hamas, right, to end Hamas' rule. 
 
Certainly, a lot of the hostage families that I've spoken to, they feel that way. Do you think that's the case? 
 
And do you think, again, is that something that's widely accepted? If that choice comes, that choice would be to take out Hamas? 
 
MAYER: Look, I wouldn't want to be one of Israel's military planners or decision-maker, like the prime minister, at this time. I imagine these would be heartbreaking decisions to have to make. 
 
We certainly know that there's a high likelihood that Hamas will use Israeli hostages as human shields, surrounding themselves and their facilities with these civilians in an attempt to prevent Israel from striking them.
 
But at the end of the day, Israel will have to do what it needs to do to keep people safe. 
 
And there is some chance that there will be hostages that are hurt in that process. That, unfortunately, is a risk that many Israelis are willing to take. 
 
BURNETT: Well, I think it's significant, to say that, right? Because it is something you have to actually think of in black and white terms. Are you willing to accept that? And the significance of the fact that they are cannot be understated. 
 
Thank you very much, Avi Mayer. Appreciate your time. 
 
We're going to have much more as Israeli troops gather on the border with Gaza. The very latest on the potential ground invasion ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[17:47:12]
 
ACOSTA: Today, a welcome sign in Gaza. Twenty aid trucks bringing in water, food, and medical supplies. But the crossing between Gaza and Egypt is closed again, and it's not clear when it will reopen. 
 
CNN's military analyst, retired Colonel Cedric Leighton, joins me now. 
 
Colonel Leighton, great to see you, as always. 
 
You know, what do we think about what is going on there at the -- at that Rafah crossing? It is puzzling to me that -- maybe not so puzzling, I suppose, your take on this -- that it would immediately shut down again after these trucks get in. 
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, Jim, that is puzzling. It's not the way I would have envisioned something like this happening, especially when there's such a dire need of supplies by the population in Gaza, especially the folks that are waiting at the border there.
 
So -- you know, obviously, there's a lot of diplomatic machinations going on here. And those machinations are really a problem, because people are suffering, people can potentially die.
 
And the fact of the matter is, is that the diplomatic background that needed to happen for this wasn't completed. In other words, all the spadework that normally gets done in these areas couldn't be done for various reasons. Some of them we probably don't know about. 
 
But the basic idea is this, that the Egyptians don't want the refugees. On the other hand, the Israelis don't want supplies to come in that could be used by Hamas. And that is a really big problem. 
 
And that was a really, really big problem. And that's part of the reason that these deliveries are limited to 20 trucks at the moment. 
 
Hopefully, the gates will open again and some more trucks will come in. But it's far, far less than what's needed on a daily basis to sustain life in Gaza. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes, I suppose we'll have a diplomatic process crop up every time they want to open up these gates and let these trucks go through. It's going to take separate conversation for each one of these convoys to go through. 
 
I suppose that you're right, that is potentially what is taking place. 
 
And, Colonel, your sense as to -- I mean, we were talking about this last weekend, the expectation that this ground incursion was going to get going. We've seen hundreds of thousands of Israeli troops amassing at the border. They have bulldozers and that sort of thing standing by, ready to go. 
 
What could be holding them back? Is it possible that Hamas releasing the two hostages has -- you know, the Israelis may want not to look at it this way, has hit the pause button? 
 
LEIGHTON: I think it has to some extent, Jim. Now how long that pause button is actually going to be in effect, that's another question. 
 <br>[17:49:56]
 
But what we're seeing is a reluctance by the Israelis to go in on several fronts. One of them is because of the hostages. That's one of the critical components. 
 
Although we're hearing from the Israelis, like the editor from the "Jerusalem Post" that told Erin just a few minutes ago that the hostages are one factor. But they're not really going to stop a ground incursion by the Israelis. 
 
The other thing is the humanitarian part of it. The rest of the world is basically telling the Israelis that they have to be very, very careful with what they're doing.
 
And they have to, as President Biden has reminded them several times, followed the laws of war when they do this, which means minimize civilian casualties to the largest extent possible. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. And, Colonel, we should note, the president was just asked about this within the last couple hours. 
 
He was asked the question, are you encouraging the Israelis to delay invasion? And the president said, quote, "I'm talking to the Israelis." 
 
It sounds as though there are diplomatic discussions taking place on multiple fronts. 
 
Colonel Leighton, we always love having you on. Got to cut it a little short here. But thanks as always. We really appreciate it. Such an asset having you on as often as often as possible. Really appreciate your time. 
 
LEIGHTON: Thank you. 
 
ACOSTA: In the meantime, more and more families in Gaza are mourning the deaths of innocent children. Their stories are heartbreaking but important to tell. 
 
We want to warn you, this next story contains graphic images some viewers may find disturbing. 
 
And CNN's Jomana Karadsheh reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(SHOUTING)
 
(CRYING)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): "Why? Why have you gone, my son?" he wails. 
 
"You wanted to be a pilot. You're only sleeping," he says, kissing his boy's lifeless body. 
 
Every day of this war has brought pain, pain no parent wants to ever live through.
 
Every 15 minutes in Gaza, a child is killed, aid groups say. More than 1,500 children killed so far in a war that's only just beginning, a war they didn't choose, one for which they are paying the heaviest price.
 
Those who live, haunted by what they've survived. The lucky ones still have parents to hold their hands. 
 
Ten-year-old Abdi Rahman (ph) still doesn't know the strike that left him injured took away his mom, dad and three sisters. His aunt, the only one left to try and comfort him. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
"He wakes up, he cries, they give him painkillers and he goes back to sleep," she says.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
KARADSHEH: "I'm worried about him, the shock when he wakes up and finds out that his mother and father are gone," his aunt says. 
 
"He's the youngest. He was so attached to his parents. He used to play football with his dad. He would go with him everywhere."
 
Families here say they all heeded the Israeli military's warning and moved south, thinking it would be safe. But it wasn't.
 
Malik (ph) is injured in the hips and legs. She lost her mother and siblings in an airstrike.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
KARADSHEH: "A girl in the third grade. What did she do?" her aunt asks. "Did she shoot Israelis? She didn't. We're peaceful people in our home," she says. "We didn't launch any rockets or shoot. We didn't do anything."
 
Nine-year-old Mahmoud (ph) was out playing when his family home was hit. He's in hospital with head and leg injuries.
 
UNIDENTIFIED BOY: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
KARADSHEH: "We were playing in the garden and, suddenly, a missile landed on us," he says. "Trees fell on me. My mother, my father, my brother and grandfather are injured. My uncle brought me unconscious to the hospital."
 
(CRYING)
 
KARADSHEH: Most of the injured in Gaza, doctors say, are children and women. With no power, no water and medical supplies running out, the health care they need is on the verge of collapse. 
 
Around half of Gaza's population are children. Most have only ever known life under a blockade and war. Now, in this kill box, no place safe from Israel's relentless bombardment.
 
Desperate for any promise of safety, many have flooded Al-Shifa Hospital grounds. 
 
(SHOUTING)
 
KARADSHEH: The constant buzz of military drones overhead has become part of existence in Gaza. 
 
(DRONE NOISES)
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KARADSHEH: Some find a little escape from this living nightmare no child should ever endure. 
 
Loujain (ph) and Julia (ph) say their neighborhood was flattened by airstrikes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED GIRL: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
KARADSHEH: "We've been living in so much fear, panic and anxiety," she says. "Whenever I hear airstrikes, I don't know what to do. I hug my mom."
 
(SINGING)
 
KARADSHEH: Seven-year-old Julia (ph) says she holds her mom, too, and hides. They're now living under the stairs.
 
UNIDENTIFIED GIRL: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
KARADSHEH: "I get upset when I see injured here in the hospital," Julia (ph) says. "When I grow up, I want to become a doctor so I can treat them, so they can get better." 
 
It's a war on Hamas, they say, but it is the youngest who bear the brunt. Ensnared in violence they can't control, trapped in this race against death.
 <br>[17:55:06]
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ACOSTA: Coming up, CNN is live on the ground in Israel as the IDF says it will increase airstrikes in Gaza. We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[17:59:56]
 
You're live in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Jim Acosta in Washington. My colleague, Erin Burnett, is live for us in Tel Aviv right now. 
 
We begin this hour with a growing death toll in the war. Palestinian health officials say more than 4,300 people have died in Gaza since the start of the war.