Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Ohio Grand Jury Declines Indictment of Officers Involved in Jayland Walker Death; Injury Count at Alabama Birthday Mass Shooting Now Stands at 32; Jury Selection on the Dominion Vs. Fox News Trial Resumes Today; U.S. State Secretary Blinken Talked to Rival Military Leaders to Demand Ceasefire in Sudan, Clashes Entered Day Four; Gershkovich Expected To Appeal Detention; China's GDP Up in First Quarter of 2023; House Speaker McCarthy Promises to Pass Bill Soon to Raise Debt Limit. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired April 18, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Very moving thing to see, and I will let you know, of course, when I hear the sirens here, I will step out of the frame, in honor, of course, of the memorial. 
 
Now, today kicks off what's really a week of memorials and remembrance days. Today is Holocaust Remembrance Day. There will be ceremonies throughout the country, especially at the main Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial and Museum. Next week, it is the Memorial Day for Israeli soldiers, and the day after that is Independence Day. And I -- here we go here at the siren for now, so I'm going to step out of the frame. 
 
(LIVE VIDEO FEED)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: We have been watching Israel mark this somber anniversary, Holocaust Remembrance Day, with the whole country honors the six million Jewish victims of the holocaust, as well as millions of others. The nation, coming to a complete standstill on this 80th anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising. 
 
And you're hearing that siren blaring. It will blare for two minutes, and that is as a mark of respect for all those lives lost during the holocaust, a moment of reflection for a nation, and indeed the world. 
 
All right. We move on now with our news. And Akron, Ohio, is bracing for more protests today after a grand jury declined to indict any of the officers who fatally shot 25 year old Jayland Walker last June. 
 
All public schools are closed, and the city has set up 24-hour demonstration zones outside city hall and in front of the police department. The mayor, police chief and Walker's family are calling for protesters to remain peaceful.
 
Ohio's Attorney General says the grand jury concluded the officers were legally justified in their use of force as Walker fired on them first from his car, then turned toward the officers when he fled on foot as if he was about to fire again. CNN's Randi Kaye has more and a warning, some of the video is graphic. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNKNOWN: Getting onto eight, south of Talmadge
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): June 27th last year, police in Akron, Ohio, are in pursuit of Jayland Walker after they say he fled a traffic stop and fired his gun at them from his car. There are eight officers in pursuit. The car chase soon turned into a foot chase. Moments after the foot chase began, the officers opened fire, killing 25-year-old Jayland Walker in a blaze of bullets. 
 
UNKNOWN: So he is still breathing? 
 
UNKNOWN: He is not coming or what? 
 
UNKNOWN: Is he still breathing? 
 
UNKNOWN: No.
 
UNKNOWN: I can't tell.
 
KAYE (voice-over): An autopsy showed Walker sustained 46 gunshot wounds in under seven seconds, according to Ohio's assistant Attorney General, that includes entry and exit wounds. The medical examiner had found 15 wounds on Walker's torso, where he had internal injuries to his heart, lungs, liver and spleen, another 17 wounds to his pelvis and upper legs, another to his face, which resulted in a broken jaw. Walker, who did not have a criminal record, died at the scene. 
 
Bodycam video includes what one officer described as a gunshot coming from Walker's vehicle. 
 
UNKNOWN: -- shots fire, that vehicle just had a shot come out of its door. 
 
CHIEF STEPHEN MYLETT, HEAD OF AKRON POLICE: A half a mile from the location of the traffic stop, you hear the gunshot. That changes the whole nature of the traffic stop. It went from being a routine traffic stop to now a public safety issue. 
 <br>[03:05:00]
 
KAYE (voice-over): Police also provided still photos from traffic cameras as what they said was evidence of a shot fired from Walker's car prior to the foot chase and fatal shooting. The shell casing from that shot was recovered on an entrance ramp, officials say, and ballistics matched it to the weapon in Walker's vehicle. Still, the family's attorney said Walker's car didn't have any bullet holes. 
 
BOBBY DICELLO, JAYLAND WALKER FAMILY ATTORNEY: We had no such threats to these officers, not one time. You can't find one frame of film where my client's gun is pointed at any officer ever. 
 
KAYE (voice-over): According to the police chief, officer said Walker was wearing a ski mask and reached for his waistband just before they shot him. A gun was later found in Walker's car, but he was unarmed at the time he was killed. 
 
JUDI HILL, AKRON, OHIO NAACP PRESIDENT: He was outgunned, and he was contained in an area. Please help us understand why, for any reason, anyone would have to be shot that many times by that many officers. 
 
KAYE (voice-over): Seven of the eight officers involved in the shooting are white, one is black. Following the shooting, the officers were placed on administrative leave pending investigation. They were later reinstated but did not respond to service calls. 
 
The Akron Police Union defended the officers action in a statement last year, saying the decision to deploy lethal force as well as the number of shots fired is consistent with use of force protocols and officers training. 
 
Randi Kaye, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: In Kansas City, Missouri, a white homeowner is facing two felony counts after allegedly shooting and wounding a 16-year old black teen who went to the wrong house to pick up his siblings. An arrest warrant has been issued for 84-year-old Andrew Lester, who is not in custody. The prosecutor says there is a racial component to the case. 
 
Meanwhile, Lester told the police that on the night of shooting, he was scared for his life due to the teen's size. The teen, Ralph Yarl, was shot twice in the forehead and arm, according to the probable cause statement. Yarl has now been released from the hospital and will recover at home. 
 
And earlier, I spoke with Cheryl Dorsey, a retired sergeant for the Los Angeles Police Department. She says the homeowner's statement about being scared of the teen is unreasonable. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SGT. CHERYL DORSEY, RET. LAPD SERGEANT: Having black skin in and of itself should not pose an imminent threat, and we know now that his rationale was left wanting. He has been charged with two very serious criminal offenses. It was not reasonable for him to say that he was afraid of a young black teenager at his door who merely rang the doorbell. He shot through a glass door when he saw this young black teenager on his front porch.
 
I hope that the arrest will have a chilling effect on others who are similarly situated and want to paint that same fright of a young black teenager. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Police in Alabama say the number of people injured at a teenager's birthday party over the weekend has increased to 32. Four people were killed after gunfire erupted at the party on Saturday. Authorities are asking the public for help identifying the suspect and urging patients as they pursue new leads. 
 
CNN's Victor Blackwell has more on the investigation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LATONYA ALLEN, MOTHER OF PHILSTAVIOUS DOWDELL: It was a nightmare, nightmare I just -- I just saw the -- a nightmare that I don't wish on any parent disclosed to go and see my baby laying down. You know, I'm partly blown. 
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A mother in mourning over the death of her young son, Philstavious Dowdell, killed in a mass shooting at her daughter's Sweet 16 party. Her daughter, 16-year old Alexis Dowdell tried to save her brother's life. 
 
ALEXIS DOWDELL, PHILSTAVIOUS DOWDELL'S SISTER: It could lay down, and they said that it was his body land right there and then that's when everybody just broke down crying, and it was people laying outside front I had ran in, and I had picked my brother and I turned them over and I was telling him I was like you fine, like you gonna make it you strong. 
 
BLACKWELL (voice-over): Police are asking the public for any information about the attack, they have released very little so far. 
 
SGT. JEREMY BURKETT, ALABAMA LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: Four lives were lost in the tragic event that occurred here. 
 
BLACKWELL (voice-over): The DJ at the party told CNN that he did not see a fight or commotion before the gunfire began. 
 
KEENAN COOPER, PARTY DJ: I tried to make sure everybody around me was safe, so I pulled a couple of people under the table in front of me. Shots went off behind me. 
 
BLACKWELL (voice-over): Latonya Allen was also shot. Earlier in the night, she had warned the group that there were rumors of someone with a gun. 
 
ALLEN: When I turned the lights on and I asked him, Mike, someone was saying someone was there with a gun, so I got them like I said. 
 <br>[03:10:01]
 
If anyone has a gun, then you need to leave because we're here to celebrate unless it's Sweet 16. We're not here for no, but no drama or anything. 
 
BLACKWELL (voice-over):  A talented senior with a football scholarship, described as the hometown hero.
 
MICHAEL TAYLOR, DADEVILLE HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL COACH: -- who feel just told me, about a month ago. So culture anything ever happened to me, even when I go to college, take care of my two sisters. I've never dreamed that he was talking about this.
 
BLACKWELL (voice-over): Another victim, 17 year old Keke Smith, set to attend the University of Alabama. She ran on the track team but was recently injured so she took a role as a trainer. 
 
TAYLOR: She just had a full ACL, couldn't -- couldn't run track, so she just came to help her out. 
 
BLACKWELL (voice-over): Also killed Marsiah Collins, a 19-year old aspiring musician who took a gap year headed to Louisiana State in the fall, and Corbyn Holston, a 23 year old from Dadeville. 
 
UNKNOWN: Lord, we pray that you would be that their parents that they would be able to comfort them. 
 
BLACKWELL (voice-over): A small town of around 3,000 people held in emotional vigil. 
 
UNKNOWN: These children have very bright futures, the ones that I knew from Dadeville, very, very athletic, very humble children, very respectful children, smart. 
 
UNKNOWN: He was everything that you would want in the sun. He always did everything that made me happy. 
 
BLACKWELL (on-camera): There have been people coming here to the dance studio to place flowers in front of the door. This is a small town, about 3,000 people, so it is very likely that there are people here who knew people in that building or a degree or two away.
 
I spoke with a woman at the city hall just about 100 yards from where I'm standing, who said that her neighbor had a grandchild at that party. And this town they say doesn't have a playbook for this, no city does, but they agree that this will not change Dadeville, Alabama. Authorities say that there is no threat to public safety as they look for a suspect. 
 
Victor Blackwell, Dadeville, Alabama. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Court proceedings in the $1.6 billion lawsuit by Dominion Voting System against Fox News are expected to begin Tuesday with the process of choosing a jury. The trial was supposed to start Monday, but the judge announced a last minute delay raising questions as to whether a settlement was in the works. But so far, no word of any resolution of the case. Dominion claims Fox defamed it by repeatedly airing false claims about the company's voting machines and software after the 2020 election. 
 
Joining me now from Los Angeles is Doug Mirell. He is a litigator in partner at Greenberg Glusker. Good to have you with us. 
 
DOUG MIRELL, LITIGATOR, PARTNER AT GREENBERG GLUSKER: Rosemary, it's my pleasure. CHURCH: So we will be watching history in the making with this $1.6
 
 billion defamation trial, Fox News versus Dominion, getting underway in the coming hours. The trial is expected to last about six weeks and was supposed to start Monday morning but got delayed. We don't know why exactly, but Rupert Murdoch's newspaper, "The Wall Street Journal," was reporting about a possible settlement effort being underway. How likely is that, do you think? 
 
MIRELL: Well, you know, it would seem to me that settlement was in the cards, perhaps at some earlier point in time before so much of the information about Fox's mendacity got out into the public realm. But now, I think it's quite unlikely, frankly, but, you know, never say never, and it is not unheard of that settlements like this in cases of this magnitude happened on the courthouse steps so who knows what might occur between now and 9.00 a.m. in Delaware? 
 
CHURCH: Yeah, very true. And how did it get this far, do you think, without a settlement being made because Fox News has a lot to lose in this, facing a lot of embarrassing moments that could be avoided by just reaching a settlement.
 
So why didn't they? And is it still possible that they might, as you say, I mean, sometimes I think I was there on jury duty at one point when a settlement was made while we're all sitting there waiting to be selected. 
 
MIRELL: Rright. No, settlements -- look. Settlements can happen at any point in time. And indeed, it would be the Fox's enormous advantage, I believe, to try to settle this case. 
 
But I'm not sure that there is -- you -- one needs two to tango. And I'm not sure that, in this case, Dominion has a real significant interest in trying to settle this case at this point, and I also think that there's another problem that might be precluding a settlement, which is that I'm quite sure the Dominion is going to demand a formal apology or several forms of apology from Fox, and I doubt that Fox's business model will permit that to happen. 
 <br>[03:15:00]
 
CHURCH: Yeah. And so, let's look at what's at stake here on both sides of this trial, given Dominion needs to show that Fox News acted with actual malice. How difficult will it be to prove that? 
 
MIRELL: Well, in the ordinary case that is a insurmountable hurdle in most defamation cases, it is extremely rare that you have the kind of evidence that exists here, where Fox hosts really pressed forward with vote-rigging allegations well after, it was quite clear that there were -- that those claims were demonstrably false. 
 
And they did so not once, not twice, but over the course of days, weeks, months, of repetition of these same erroneous allegations, which the court has already determined are false. And so the question now is, what was Fox's mindset? What did they know when they were making these statements? And if they made the statements knowing them to be false or with
 
 reckless disregard for their truth, that satisfies "The New York Times" standard, and that will result in the determination of liability. 
 
CHURCH: So, given that, what would you expect the outcome to be, if this does end up going to trial in the coming hours without any last minute settlement being reached? 
 
MIRELL: So, I think it's quite likely that Fox will be found liable for defaming Dominion. And then the question is what kind of damage will Dominion be able to show? And what kind of damage award will it be able to obtain? 
 
And the one question I have in that regard is, we have a rule here in California that a jury in a civil case only requires a three-fourths verdict in order to find liability. But in Delaware and also in New York, the rule is a unanimous rule. 
 
And so, all 12 jurors in this case are going to have to agree not only about liability, but also on the amount of damage and that may take some time, that may be somewhat contentious. So we'll just have to see. 
 
CHURCH: We certainly shall. Doug Mirell, many thanks for your analysis, appreciate it. 
 
MIRELL: My pleasure. 
 
CHURCH: We are less than nine hours from the deadline for parties to submit filings to the U.S. Supreme Court over the abortion pill. Drug maker, Denco Laboratories, as well as the U.S. Justice Department asked the nation's top court to step in and review a lower court ban on the medication.
 
Justice Samuel Alito temporarily extended access to the drug until midnight, Eastern Time. But that move is no indication of how the court might rule on the emergency appeal. The U.S. president has called the proposed ban outrageous. 
 
Time for a short break. When we come back, the death toll is climbing in Sudan, where rival military leaders are fighting for control of the country. We'll have that and more in just a moment
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has spoken by phone with the rival military leaders whose forces are battling for control of Sudan. He's urging an end to the fighting, now in its fourth day. The U.N. reports at least 180 people have been killed, close to 2,000 injured, although the actual numbers are thought to be much higher. Both sides are accused of targeting hospitals, which are short on blood supplies and lifesaving equipment. 
 
CNN's Eleni Giokos explains how two military leaders, once allies, are now locked in this deadly power struggle. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: A battle for power between Sudan's national army and a strong paramilitary group that operates without reprieve. At the heart of the conflict of these two men, Sudan's military leader Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, and the commander of the Rapid Support Forces, or RSF, Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, commonly known as Hemetti. 
 
Until recently, the two were allies. They worked together to topple Sudan's former dictator-president, Omar al-Bashir in 2019, and played a crucial role in orchestrating the country's military coup in 2021. But tensions have been rising in the uneasy alliance, with both sides clashing over how to restore civilian rule. 
 
So how did the struggle for power in Sudan begin? In 2013, the RSF evolved from the Janjaweed militia that had earlier fought a rebellion in the Darfur region under the authority of then-president Bashir. It was led by Hemetti himself, who was implicated in human rights violations and atrocities. 
 
In 2017, Sudan passed a law legitimizing the RSF as an independent security force. In late 2018, protests started in the northern city in part over the price of bread, and those protests spread rapidly to the capital, Khartoum. 
 
After months of protests, in April 2019, Hemetti turned against Bashir, and the army ousted him from office. A few months later, the main opposition coalition led by Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok and the ruling military council led by Hemetti signed a power-sharing deal that paved the way for a transitional government and eventually, elections. 
 
But a little over two years later, the military effectively took control, dissolving the power sharing government and temporarily detaining Hamdok. 
 
The next day, protesters took to the streets to denounce the military coup, and those protests have continued sporadically ever since. 
 <br>[03:25:08]
 
In December of last year, civilian and military leaders signed a deal to start the process of a new two year political transition, but they have yet to agree on a political solution. 
 
The fierce fighting across Sudan right now has dashed hopes for a peaceful transition to civilian and democratic rule. And as forces loyal to the two rival leaders vie for control, dozens of civilians are left caught in the middle. 
 
Eleni Giokos, CNN. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: CNN's Larry Madowo was following developments. He joins us live this hour from Nairobi, Kenya. So Larry, what is the latest on the fighting in Sudan? And what will it take to end at any sign of a ceasefire in the works? 
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: There is still reports of sporadic fighting in parts of Khartoum and also in other parts of the country. It appears to be quieter today than in recent days. Suddenly, yesterday, was given to us. According to many eyewitnesses, to be one of the most relentless of the fighting was seen, since these clashes broke out.
 
On Saturday, there's a flurry of diplomatic activity that's still continuing under extremely difficult circumstances, because these diplomatic efforts can't happen in person with the Khartoum Airport still remaining closed and with these generals still appearing to take these really hard line positions. And now, the new front, and there's at least this concern, for instance, the European Union ambassador was assaulted in his own home, according to the European Union, he is fine. 
 
But at the same time, the United States foreign secretary, the Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, said that there was also an American convoy that was shot at again. The people in that convoy are fine, but these are extremely concerning because usually diplomats, humanitarian workers, health workers, generally supposed to be safe in war situations, but that does not appear to be the case. And the Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, has been speaking about Sudan again. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: This morning, I made calls to generals, al-Burhan and Hemetti, urging them to agree to a 24-hour ceasefire, to allow Sudanese to safely reunite with their families, and to obtain desperately needed relief supplies. If implemented successfully, the ceasefire for 24 hours can create a foundation to build upon for a more sustained halt to fighting and a return to negotiations on a durable end to the hostilities. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO: It's not clear the status of the African Union mediation efforts because the Presidents from Kenya, South Sudan and Djibouti, that was supposed to go in, cannot get in. At the same time, the Central Sudan Doctors Committee says that some hospitals have taken out by missiles, some of them risk running out of medicines that people who need urgent help, and they're just not getting it at the same time across the city and other parts of the country. Water and fuel should -- show -- water and power shortages, food, medicines, possibly running out, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: Larry Madowo joining us live from Nairobi. Many thanks for that report. Still to come. He has been held at a notorious pre-detention center in
 
 Russia. Now, American journalist, Evan Gershkovich, is expected to appeal his detention. 
 
And Russia is accused of deporting thousands of Ukrainian children, but some are coming home. We will meet two children who are talking about their ordeal.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  Jailed "Wall Street Journal" Reporter Evan Gershkovich will be appealing his detention in the coming hours likely via video link but the court is expected to uphold a decision to keep him in custody until at least May 29th. 
 
On Monday, Gershkovich was granted a consular visit for the first time since he was detained on espionage allegations more than two weeks ago. A lawyer for prominent Russian Human Rights Advocate Vladimir Kara-Murza says he plans to appeal after being sentenced to 25 years in prison for condemning the war in Ukraine.
 
The British-Russian citizen was on trial for crimes including treason and spreading fake news. 
 
CNN's Clare Sebastian joins us live from London. Good morning to you, Clare. So, what more can you tell us about both of these cases?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, Rosemary. So, Evan Gershkovich, "The Wall Street Journal" Reporter, we expect that appeal to begin in the Moscow court in a little under two hours from now. As you say, his current status is that he is now in pre-trial detention in the notorious Lefortovo prison in Moscow. That is until May 29th. 
 
We don't know whether that could be addressed potentially in this hearing, but he is facing espionage charges which carry a maximum sentence of 20 years. And of course, the U.S. government has called him wrongfully detained, which means that they are now working to secure his release. 
 
The Russian authorities, though, have said that they want this to play out in the courts. He was, as you say, visited, got his first consular access on Monday, 19 days after his arrest in Moscow. He was visited by the U.S. Ambassador to Moscow herself, Lynne Tracy. 
 
And I think, a sign of the times, Rosemary, is that earlier in the day she had attended another case, the sentencing of Vladimir Kara-Murza, that British-Russian Human Rights Activist sentenced to 25 years for charges including treason and discrediting the Russian army. 
 
{03:35:00]
 
Here's a look at the background to that case and how the day unfolded. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR KARA -MURZA, RUSSIAN HUMAN RIGHTS ADVOCATE:  Today, the whole world sees what the Putin regime is doing to Ukraine. The cluster bombs on residential areas, the bombings of maternity wards and hospitals and schools.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over): It was this speech before the Arizona State House that Russian prosecutors used as part of the case against Vladimir Kara-Murza. With Russia's war in Ukraine just a few weeks old, he didn't hold back.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARA -MURZA:  The war crimes. These are war crimes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: (voice-over):  Less than a month later, the prominent human rights activist was arrested in Moscow, charged with spreading false information about the Russian army and working with an undesirable organization. A charge of treason added later. 
 
In court, Monday, Kara-Murza appeared calm and collected. Outside court, international alarm was immediate.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LYNNE TRACY, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA:  Criminalization of government action is a sign of weakness, not strength. We support the right of Mr. Kara-Murza and every Russian citizen to have a voice in the direction of their country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: (voice-over):  In an international show of force, more than 40 foreign diplomats were at the sentencing, according to the Moscow court.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ALISON LECLAIRE, CANADIAN AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA:  Today's verdict is a sad testament to the dark turn this struggle has come to.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over):  The U.K. where Kara-Murza is a dual citizen, also summoning the Russian ambassador over what it called a politically motivated conviction. "Amnesty International" calling the verdict reminiscent of Stalin era repression.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARIA EISMONT, VLADIMIR KARA-MURZA'S LAWYER (through translator):  It is very unlikely that this maximum sentence could be appointed if the court followed the law. Vladimir is a father of three children. This is a mitigating circumstance.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN (voice-over):  Kara-Murza's lawyers plan to appeal. His wife in a tweet, saying, his quarter century sentence means he got an A plus for his courage, consistency and honesty. 
 
And while the Kremlin declined to comment, the message is clear. The crime of criticizing Putin's regime and his war is bringing ever tougher punishment. 
 
SEBASTIAN: (on camera):  Vladimir Kara-Murza, outspoken to the very end of his trial, Rosemary, in his final words before the court, comparing it to essentially the Soviet show trials under Stalin in the 1930's. His wife, meanwhile, has come out and criticized the U.K. government where, of course, he is a dual citizen, calling the response weak and saying that they should be introducing new sanctions on those involved in this case. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH: Thanks to Claire Sebastian joining us live from London. 
 
Russian State Media is reporting that President Vladimir Putin has just visited troops at military bases, drawing a rare trip to Russian occupied Ukraine. President Putin reportedly spoke with commanders and other senior officers to get a report on the strategic situation in the Luhansk, Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions. 
 
Russia's alleged deportation, essentially the abduction of thousands of Ukrainian children to Russia and Crimea has already led to war crimes charges. President Putin and his Commissioner of Children's Rights Maria Lvova-Belova are now facing arrest warrants from the International Criminal Court. 
 
And Ukrainian authorities say Russia is still trying to take even more children from the area around Zaporizhzhia. But a few are coming home. These are 31 children being returned last week to their families in Kherson and Kharkiv regions. 
 
CNN's Nick Paton Walsh has this report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Kherson may be free, but it's haunted by occupation. When Russian troops fled last year blowing the bridge, it was to only just to cross the river from where their snipers and artillery now regularly fire. 
 
Thursday, shelling, killing a local man here and Saturday, a mother and child. Haunted, too, is the homecoming here of Bogdan, age 13. We first met him in Kyiv when he'd just been rescued from occupied Crimea. He was one of thousands of children Ukraine says were forcibly deported by Russia, a charge that's led to war crimes indictment against Putin. But home is tough. And on this hard-hit Ireland off of Kherson, so
 
 dicey with Russian troops near this bank and shelling the water, the police won't let us over the bridge.
 
This is Bogdan's first time outside since he got back and we get some ice cream and pizza. Hope isn't great. A violent row (ph) there the night before left glass broken and his hand cut up. The bangs outside make it harder still. 
 <br>[03:40:00]
 
BOGDAN, CHILD RETURNEE (translated on-screen text):  Explosions are heard day and night. I want to leave for Kyiv. I'm scared at night because of these sounds - the windows may shatter.
 
IRA, MOTHER OF BOGDAN (translated on-screen text):  The windows, yes, but it's important it doesn't hit the house.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  The camp in Crimea had gentle indoctrination. Daily Russian anthems, but it wasn't his thing. 
 
BOGDAN (translated on-screen text):  They told us how it was a long ago with Russia and Ukraine that once they were together.
 
WALSH (translated on-screen text):  And how did you feel hearing this?
 
BOGDAN (translated on-screen text):  It wasn't cool. In the lessons, I put my head down and looked at my phone. I didn't want to listen. I wouldn't stay in Russia. It, firstly, isn't a pretty town there and there's trash everywhere. They don't clean anywhere or develop. Better to be in Kherson than there.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  The town has its troubles, locals angrily queueing her for cash handouts. Ira has endured animosity from neighbors. Ever since, she let Bogdan go to what she thought would be a safer place for just two weeks. 
 
IRA (translated on-screen text):  On the island, there is content from people that I gave Bogdan up. Even at the humanitarian aid center, they despise me. One of them shouted, "Where is your Bogdan? Ira, where is your Bogdan?" Some of the women in the line were whispering about me and looking at me. But I don't pay any attention. It is what it is.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  Home here can be hard. Kira (ph), 10, was also sent to Crimea. Her parents are separated badly, and she came back straight to her father, Alexander. But in the shop as they gather handout, toys, clothes and food because her father has lost his job in the war, the background chatter is also that parents who let their kids go to the Russians should be treated with caution as sympathizers. 
 
UNKNOWN (translated on-screen text):  What's in the bag? I don't know, maybe more toys for you.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  I asked Kira (ph) how the Russian camp was where she stayed.
 
KIRA (PH)(translated on-screen text):  It was super at the camp. Super.
 
WALSH (voice-over):  I asked if it's better to be home. Their world is still spinning between two sides of war, leaving them nothing but dizzy.
 
Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Kherson, Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  Still to come. Some good news for the Chinese economy. We're live in Beijing to discuss the country's recovery from Covid lockdowns. Back in just a month. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  China's economic growth is off to a strong start in 2023. Fresh numbers from Beijing show its GDP rose 4.5% in the first quarter as China tries to claw its way back after strict COVID lockdowns. 
 
CNN's Beijing Bureau Chief, Steven Jiang joins me now with more. Good to see you, Steven. So, China's GDP up 4.5%. What more are you learning about this and of course so, what it signals?
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN's BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF:  Yeah, Rosemary. As with most official economic data from Beijing, you take it -- take them with the grain of salt. But even taking them at face value, it's worth-noting, as you alluded to, what we're comparing these numbers against, that is the first quarter of 2022, especially the month of March. 
 
That, of course, was when Shanghai, the financial hub and biggest city was headed into a two-month brutal lockdown. So, it was against that kind of abysmal economic picture of 2022 that we are seeing this very a strong rebound that officials are so proud of. 
 
And the other thing to note, of course, is this rebound is not evenly distributed across different sectors across different segments of the population. Officials obviously highlighting, for example, a strong rebound in consumer spending. And we have seen the anecdotally, flights, restaurants, hotels, once empty for years, now are filled with people again with prices shooting through the roof. 
 
But the same thing cannot be said about big ticket item purchases. People are not buying new cars and they're certainly buying new homes. And housing sector, of course, once the growth engine here for decades, now in a slow motion crash with developers running out of cash, not only unable to start new projects but having difficulties finishing already pre-sold apartments and perhaps the most sensitive number here is youth unemployment, often tied with the potential social instability. 
 
That number actually increased to 19.6% in March. That is the second highest number on record, so that must be a very worrisome trend for the government, especially with hundreds of thousands of new college graduates are soon flooding the job market. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH: All right. Steven Jiang, joining us live from Beijing. Many thanks. 
 
Still to come. The U.S. Speaker of the House slams President Biden, claiming he's unwilling to negotiate on the U.S. debt limit. That story and more after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  Welcome back, everyone. U.S. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy has made it his mission to pass a bill to raise the nation's debt ceiling for one year. And he believes he can do it in just a few weeks. 
 
McCarthy spoke at the New York Stock Exchange on Monday outlining the proposed bill, which would help the federal government avoid defaulting on its debt for the first time ever. He slammed U.S. President Joe Biden, claiming he's unwilling to negotiate with House Republicans. But the White House is adamant the debt limit should be raised with no strings attached. 
 
Two lawmakers returned to the U.S. Senate on Monday. Republican leader Mitch McConnell is back after spending the past several weeks recovering from a fall last month. He was hospitalized with a concussion and a rib fracture.
 
And Democratic Senator John Fetterman made his return to Capitol Hill as well after receiving treatment for clinical depression. 
 <br>[03:55:00]
 
CHURCH:  He told Capitol reporters, "It's great to be back."
 
California Senator Dianne Feinstein is still out and a number of Senate Republicans say they will not help Democrats replace her on the powerful Judiciary Committee. Eighty-nine-year-old Feinstein, who has missed weeks of work and 58 votes because of shingles, is under pressure from her own party to resign or to return quickly. Her absence has held up at least a dozen of the U.S. President's judicial nominees. 
 
And for the first time ever, tech giant Apple is opening a retail store in India, located in Mumbai's financial district. The store is meant to expand the company's footprint nationwide. Apple has employed 100 team members and the stores design was inspired by the city's iconic black and yellow taxis. And thanks so much for sharing part your day with me. I'm Rosemary
 
 Church. "CNN Newsroom" continues with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)