Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Two Dead, 28 Injured During Baltimore Block Party; More Than 100 Million Under Severe Weather Threat Today; Second Bus Of Migrants Arrives In L.A. From Texas; Conservative Majority Dominates The High Court; More Than 700 Detained In Fight Night Of Violent Protests In France; Russia Launches Drone Attack On Ukrainian Capital; Army's Air Defense Units Strained By Global Threats. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired July 02, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:31] 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN ANCHOR: Buenas tardes. Good afternoon and welcome to the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Boris Sanchez in for my friend Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
A holiday weekend block party shattered by gun violence. A mass shooting in Baltimore killing at least two people with more than two dozen injured. It happened just after midnight in Baltimore's Brooklyn neighborhood. 
 
Crowds gathered for an annual celebration and instead the party turned deadly. People running for their lives as gunshots rang out. 
 
The Mayor of Baltimore telling CNN this morning that those responsible will be brought to justice. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR BRANDON SCOTT (D), BALTIMORE, MARYLAND: We're going to not rest until we find these individuals and hold them accountable, because we will not allow folks to just deteriorate people's communities, to attack people, to murder people and think that they're just going to continue to walk on our streets. 
 
But as I said earlier, it also highlights again the real need to deal with guns and illegal guns and access to them, not just in Baltimore City, but across this country. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: Let's take you now live to Baltimore with CNN's Gloria Pazmino who has been tracking the story for us. Gloria, it is still early on in this investigation. But do we have any indication of how many shooters might have created this incident? 
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Boris. We are waiting to hear more from police to see if they've determined whether this was one shooter or multiple shooters. And we are expecting to get some sort of update in the next few hours. 
 
But let me first tell you about what was unfolding here last night. It's a very familiar scene around the country right now. It's a holiday weekend. People are gathering. They're having a cookout. They're having a block party. 
 
And that's what the residents of this neighborhood were doing last night. It was supposed to be a family celebration that ended in tragedy. An 18-year-old woman is dead, a 20-year-old man was killed, and dozens more are in area hospitals. 
 
Now, I want to show you just a little bit of the scene here which is still quite active. We just had Mayor Scott a minute ago, he was still here canvassing the area. 
 
And you can see they've brought in this mobile command center. The Baltimore police has been on the scene all morning. ATF still here as well, still combing the ground, the grass looking for evidence. 
 
We have been told that this is still very much in the early stages of the investigation, but we heard from the mayor this morning talking about this community. Saying this community has had its issues in the past, but they've come a long way. And they're very proud of that. 
 
And that is actually the reason why they gathered and celebrate. And that was what he said was happening here last night. That is one of the reasons he is encouraging and pleading with people here to come forward and share any information they might have about the incident. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCOTT: I want the parents and the brother and the sister and the children of the people who pulled the trigger to be the ones to say they did this, because we all have to treat this incident like it was our own family members who lost their lives and were shot in this incident. That's how we should be treating this incident. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAZMINO: Now, you're seeing that same concern right here on the ground, Boris. The mayor and people from his office have been distributing letters to the residents letting them know that there are resources available, but also encouraging them to come forward, Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: And Gloria, tell us about those who survived the incident. How are they holding up today? 
 
PAZMINO: Yes. You know, Boris, I've been trying to speak to people here in the last hour. And many of them didn't want to go on camera. But I did speak to people who were here last night during that block party. And they described the scene as just chaotic, mayhem when they heard gunshots. People running all over the place trying to take shelter inside these homes. 
 
They also said this has never happened here at this block party before. This is a yearly event. One of the questions we're going to have for officials in the next few hours is why the police wasn't here. 
 <br>[14:04:51]
 
PAZMINO: The neighbors told me usually this party is staffed by police officers who are on the ground just kind of making sure things are safe. They told us police were not here yesterday during the party and they felt that the police took too long to arrive. 
 
So certainly, one of the questions that we will be asking the mayor and police later on. The people here are sad. They're shocked. But also just, you know, grieving and mourning that their community has been shattered by this, Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. What was supposed to be a festive holiday weekend turned into a nightmare. 
 
Gloria Pazmino from Baltimore, thank you so much. 
 
Let's expand the conversation now with the former commissioner of the Baltimore Police Department, Michael Harrison. Sir, thank you so much for sharing part of your weekend with us.
 
Right off the bat I'm curious to get your response to what happened here. When you learned of the news, how did it make you feel? 
 
MICHAEL HARRISON, FORMER COMMISSIONER, BALTIMORE POLICE DEPARTMENT: Well, first of all, thank you for having me. I was like most people shocked and horrified at this horrific event. If you think about it, 30 people shot at a block party that had upwards of 100, maybe 200 or 300 people. That's very, very horrific and likely the most violent, the largest and most deadly and violent mass shooting the city has seen certainly in recent years. So I was as horrified as everyone else. 
 
And then, of course, I heard the previous speaker, you know, I begin to ask myself, although I'm transitioning out, the acting commissioner is in the role, the very same questions about police presence and what was known, when it was known and how could police not have known. 
 
And all of those questions I believe the acting commissioner is asking right now. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. A lot to be answered for. I'm wondering in the course of the investigation, what's the priority for investigators right now? 
 
HARRISON: Well, I think the priority right now is to stabilize the neighborhood, make sure we can get as much evidence as the department can possibly get. The most important thing right now is witness account of what happened. 
 
With that many people out there, it is -- you know, we know that people saw things, people know things, people heard things. So the most important thing that our detectives are looking for -- video, shell casings, physical evidence, it's for witness evidence and witnesses to come forward which I believe detectives are still doing that as we speak right now. But you heard about the neighborhood stabilization, providing
 
 resources, letting people know that there are resources available, the police are there. And we're working to answer the questions of how this happened, why this happened and how can we better not let this happen again. 
 
SANCHEZ: You spoke, sir, about the importance of witness testimony and gathering that. Often when these incidents occur, some witnesses are just hesitant to come forward. There's a distrust of police. So how do you get over that in this specific incident? 
 
HARRISON: Well, it's about relationships. It's about the commander there, the officers there who have relationships, detectives who can tap into those relationships that exist. 
 
Number one, to make people know that we care and to make people know that we can actually do something about it. And with those relationships, we need to give confidence that the police department can actually find the people who did this, but it will take community support. It will take community help. Very well might take witness account of what happened, because if it happened to these folk, it can happen to anyone. 
 
And as you heard the mayor say, we don't want people coming to neighborhoods, tearing up neighborhoods. That's the last thing that any police department at any city wants, that any community wants. 
 
And so it is very important for the people to, number one, trust the police but believe that they can actually bring the person to justice. 
 
SANCHEZ: I'm also wondering what your experience was like as commissioner with this area. Was it one that you were familiar with? Had anything like this happened previously? 
 
HARRISON: Well, I'm familiar with the area. And we have had violent incidents in that area over the 4.5 years when I was the police commissioner. Never anything to this magnitude, and, you know, never anything remotely close to this magnitude. This is very shocking. This is very horrific. You know, our thoughts and prayers are with families. 
 
Right now it is about two things, justice for those who have been injured and killed, and closure to those families. And so detectives I'm sure are working around the clock with all hands on deck. 
 
I'm also confident that every law enforcement agency, local, state and federal, has begun to offer their services. I heard ATF was already there. I'm confident that all the agencies at every level are already working to partner with the police department to bring closure to the family and find who did this, those individuals or individual who did this and bring all of them to justice. 
 <br>[14:09:50]
 
SANCHEZ: Commissioner, I also wanted to get your perspective on something that the mayor of Baltimore, Brandon M. Scott, has said not only on CNN but also recently in an op-ed on gun violence, that the focus needs to be on getting illegal guns off the streets, arguing that gun violence also needs to be addressed at the individual level. 
 
I'm wondering if you think there's a policy approach that can be taken in order to address incidents like this one in your own back yard. 
 
HARRISON: Well, I certainly join the mayor in that -- asserting that we need to stop the flow of illegal guns coming into the city of Baltimore, because there are no gun stores in the city of Baltimore. 
 
And the prevalence of guns, ease of access and the willingness to use the guns, we have to solve all of those because without consequences, individuals will continue to carry them because they think they need them. 
 
I say this all the time. The decision to pull the trigger is not made when the trigger is pulled. The decision to pull the trigger is actually made when an individual puts their hand on a gun and walks out of their door, out of their home with that gun. 
 
They've already predisposed in their mind that, if they need it, they'll have it. And so we have to have consequences for the individuals who are carrying illegal guns and the willingness for them to use them. But we also have to stem the flow of guns into the city which are making it very easy for anybody and everybody to get them and then to ultimately use them. 
 
SANCHEZ: Former Baltimore police commissioner Michael Harrison. Thank you so much for sharing your weekend with us. We appreciate it. 
 
HARRISON: Thank you. 
 
SANCHEZ: Of course.
 
There is another mass shooting to tell you about, this one in Wichita, Kansas. Police say that seven people were shot and wounded inside a nightclub. Two others were injured when they were trampled as the crowd tried to escape. 
 
Officials say that a quick response likely prevented more violence. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHIEF JOE SULLIVAN, WICHITA POLICE DEPARTMENT: If it hadn't been for their professional response, this would have been a much more serious incident. And I have no doubt there would have been loss of life. And as we continue into this holiday weekend, again, alcohol and firearms do not mix. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: Police say they have detained one person for questioning, but so far they have not identified any suspects. 
 
A hundred million people are at risk of damaging winds, hail and potential tornadoes today. It comes as dangerous heat continues also for 63 million people. 
 
Let's take you to the CNN Weather Center with meteorologist Allison Chinchar. 
 
And Allison, some areas are bearing the brunt of this extreme weather. Not great for a holiday weekend. 
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: No, especially in Chicago right now. We're dealing with some flash flooding. They've had a lot of showers over the same area just over and over again. We refer to those as training storms. 
 
There's been at least 2-5 inches of rain that has come down in and around the city. Because of that, you have a flash flood warning not only for the city of Chicago, but also for Peoria. Both of those warnings expected to last for at least the next two hours because additional rain is forecast on top of it. We already know that we have several roads closed, roads under water because of all of the rain. But it's not the only area dealing with rain showers. 
 
We also have some in the northeast, the mid-Atlantic as well as the southeast. And the biggest potential there is actually for strong to severe thunderstorms. We're talking damaging winds, large hail and even the potential for some isolated tornadoes. 
 
Nashville, Washington D.C., stretching down towards Atlanta and even Memphis all looking at the potential for those strong to severe thunderstorms. Those will continue through the afternoon and even into the evening as they continue to push off to the east. 
 
By tomorrow morning we're still looking at the potential for some strong to severe thunderstorms. Most of that will actually be along the East Coast, stretching back into the southeast as well. 
 
Another threat, as you mentioned, is yes, going to be the heat. Two separate areas we're talking about here, one in the southeast where we do have a heat advisory in effect. 
 
The secondary is out to the west where both the heat advisory and an excessive heat warning are in place. Out west, the main focus here is just the incredibly hot temperatures. You're talking 112 in Las Vegas today, up to 113 tomorrow, 115 today in Palm Springs, 115 as well tomorrow. But that heat is going to even spread farther north. States like Oregon and Washington where we do have the potential to break records and in fact, Boris, it's going to be one of 30 cities that has the potential to break records not just today, but all the way through Wednesday of the upcoming week. 
 
SANCHEZ: Important to stay hydrated perhaps with an alcoholic drink while enjoying fireworks, preferably far away from the fireworks. 
 
Allison Chinchar, thank you so much for that. 
 
Still ahead, another bus of migrants arriving in southern California, the second in just two weeks. Ahead, what we're learning about the group including the 11 children traveling with them. Plus, an exclusive CNN report uncovering a disturbing pattern of
 
 sexual assault coverups inside the Coast Guard Academy. We have details on that when NEWSROOM returns. 
 <br>[14:14:58]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Police in Atlanta say they discovered incendiary devices after an overnight fire burned several police motorcycles at the department's training academy. Officials tell CNN emergency crews found the motorcycles in flames in a parking deck around 2:00 a.m. And they discovered the devices were -- I should say the devices were discovered soon after the fires were put out. 
 
Police did not give details on what kind of devices they were, but notably before the fires in another part of the city, officers discovered three vandalized police vehicles. Both incidents are under investigation though it's unclear whether police believe they are related. 
 
A bus carrying 41 migrants from Brownsville, Texas arrived in Los Angeles over the weekend, the second busload of migrants sent to L.A. in just the last few weeks. The trip apparently funded by the state of Texas. 
 <br>[14:19:59]
 
SANCHEZ: Camila Bernal joins us now live from Los Angeles. Camila, bring us up to speed on this journey for these migrants. 
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey Boris. I've been told these migrants are tired but feeling a sense of relief to be here in Los Angeles. 
 
Of the 41, 11 of them were children. The group comes from different parts in Latin America and Central America including Cuba, Columbia, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Venezuela. And a lot of them actually had either family members or sponsors here in Los Angeles. 
 
I was told that the group essentially knew they were coming here to Los Angeles and that a lot of them also have immigration court dates here in the Los Angeles area. 
 
What I've been told by city officials is that there was no official notification or warning that this group was coming, but this time around the city of Brownsville was able to confirm that they were coming. 
 
And wo what a lot of the non-profits and the faith-based groups that are helping these migrants have said is this time around was a little smoother because they knew exactly what they were expecting and they were able to welcome these migrants with open arms, which is what they have been saying that they were going to do this time and any other time that more migrants are essentially transported here to Los Angeles. Here is Angelita Salas with (INAUDIBLE).
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANGELITA SALAS, THE COALITION FOR HUMAN IMMIGRANT RIGHTS: I talked to a couple of young men who have been walking for months themselves. And so this is the first time after arriving in Brownsville, getting on a bus, finally, that they actually get a chance just to sit and rest. And now they're here in the United States.
 
So what we're doing is just making sure that the individuals understand also their legal situation. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL: Now, we know that Republican governors have been transporting migrants to Democratic-led cities. Greg Abbott has said that he's transported more than 23,000 people to cities like L.A., D.C., New York, Chicago, Philadelphia. 
 
And we have reached out to Governor Abbott's office and have not heard back. But In the past, he has essentially used this to criticize what's being done at the border on the federal government level. And officials here are saying this is just a political stunt, Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: Camila Bernal, thank you so much for the update from Los Angeles. 
 
Still to come, a term full of controversial rulings from the Supreme Court. The impact from each of these will be felt for years to come. We're going to discuss with a legal expert when we come back. 
 <br>[14:22:42]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: The Supreme Court ended its term this week with several landmark conservative rulings. In that blockbuster finale, the six Republican-appointed justices struck down President Biden's student loan forgiveness program, limited protections for the nation's LGBTQ community and ended race-based affirmative action in college admissions. 
 
Let's discuss all of this with Michael Gerhardt, he's a Burton Craige distinguished professor of jurisprudence at the University of North Carolina Law School. 
 
Michael, thank you so much for being with us. I wanted to start with the affirmative action ruling. You actually wrote an opinion piece for CNN.com this week titled "The Conservative Project To Kill Affirmative Action Was Decades In The Making". 
 
I'm just wondering what the potential implications of this ruling were. How do you see this playing out in the future as precedent? 
 
MICHAEL GERHARDT, BURTON CRAIGE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR, UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA LAW SCHOOL: Well, I think a lot of people, of course, are wondering about that right now. I think that the first reaction is going to be that everybody is going to probably try to take the court at its word. 
 
The court said that a university admissions office, private or public, may not use race as a basis for its decision. Nonetheless, the court said that universities could solicit essays from students about disadvantages or experiences they've had. And those essays could well make reference to race. Presumably what's applied in the court's opinion is that the university admissions office could then rely on those essays. 
 
So the door may not be completely shut for any reference to race whatsoever. After all, students are private actors whose conduct is not governed by the constitution. They may make reference to their own essays to their experiences as racial minorities among other things. 
 
But it remains to be seen whether or not there's going to be other litigation down the road that will challenge any reliance on essays that make reference to race. So we are not done with this big question the court tried to decide today. Initially the court made it clear race may not be formally used by admissions offices, but there's still a lot of litigation to come down the pike that will deal with whether or not race may enter into consideration in some other manner. 
 
SANCHEZ: A real gray area there for college admissions offices, right? 
 
GERHARDT: Yes. Absolutely. And admissions offices have tried over the years, over the decades to fine-tune their policies consistent with what the Supreme Court has said. 
 
GERHARDT: I think we all knew this day was coming. Republican presidents at least since 1978 have been appointing justices to reverse affirmative action. Well, that's done with the last three appointments made by President Trump. 
 <br>[14:29:54]
 
GERHARDT: And now the questions are just going to be to what extent can universities, private or public, make adjustments to ensure the most diverse class they can get. 
 <br>[14:30:04]
 
SANCHEZ: More potential litigation ahead for a different Supreme Court decision made this week, the court citing with an evangelical web designer in Colorado. She was refusing to create marriage websites celebrating same-sex weddings, saying that it violated her First Amendment rights. 
 
What potential precedent could come from that ruling? What are the implications? 
 
GERHARDT: Well, the ramifications could be pretty large. To begin with, she is not even in the business yet that she is putting on photography for weddings. She, nonetheless, she was able to convince the Supreme Court that she would get into that business if she would have the freedom to exclude certain people from her services, particularly gay couples who might want to celebrate, of course, a gay wedding. 
 
The free exercise of religion claim that the Supreme Court upheld, that in the sense trumps or overrides any expressive desires that clients may have from her services as a photographer, it opens the door wider to people making similar claims, free exercise of religion claims to deny services presumably based not just on whether or not somebody is gay, but maybe on the basis of their religion, for example, being Jewish, or maybe it's because of their color. 
 
So, the real question that now faces the court is how wide is that you are going to be? For allowing people to deny public services to other people based on some religious convictions about color, religion, sexual orientation, or anything else that people offering the services don't like?
 
SANCHEZ: I wanted to dig in on the question of standing with you in that case, Michael, because I spoke to her attorney, the web designer's attorney this week, Kim Waggoner, who argued the case before the Supreme Court. And she made the case that even though she hadn't actually started soliciting bids for same-sex marriage websites, she was stifled in her speech by the way that Colorado regulates her kind of business. Do you find that to be a legitimate position to argue from, even though many say that there was no actually harm in that case? 
 
GERHARDT: I find her position to be peculiar. I find it to be even more peculiar the Supreme Court would've accepted the case and weighted for a case in which somebody is actually harmed. The Supreme Court's own decisions say that plaintiffs asserting constitutional claims need to be actually harmed in order to assert those claims in court. What we call that is establishing a case for controversy, an actual case of controversy that brings this issue to genuine relief, genuine framing for the court to decide. 
 
But the court didn't wait for anyone to be actually hired. 
 
SANCHEZ: Right. This person might be harmed, maybe should go into this business, maybe not, but if she does go into it, now, of course, she can go into it and exclude people based on their sexual orientation from her services. But that's really bending and distorting what the court has said about demanding from plaintiffs and other cases that they have to show actual harm before they can bring a claim in federal court. 
 
GERHARDT: Yeah, it is a fascinating aspect of the story. I also want to get your perspective on the Supreme Court overturning President Biden's student loan relief program. The major questions doctrine coming into play here and leading many critics to believe that other federal programs could be at risk, do you think that sets the kind of president that might end, say, a program like Medicare? 
 
SANCHEZ: Well, there's a good chance that it will end some programs. Medicare is congressionally established, so I think that's not on the line, or at stake here. But what the court has done in the name of the Major Questions Doctrine, and, of course, done that 6 to 3, according to the same division, the same alignment in all three of these cases, and the majority of six justices, all conservatives, are claiming that there is something new up there called in the Major Questions Doctrine, which means that executive authorities like the president may not have the discretion to exercise any kind of authority when there is a so-called major question at stake. 
 
The problem here is, what is a major question? Only those six justices seem to know, at least so far, what is a major question, such that it would preclude the president from acting without a clear congressional mandate. And so, this case, according to the court, it's leaving Congress to give that clear mandate, though, Congress didn't pass legislation, the president thought he was acting consistently with.
 <br>[14:35:06]
 
But that's not enough for this new majority in the Supreme Court. We've got to figure out what's the major question. It's not clear at all to lawyers what that is. But once that's clear, then the court is saying, only Congress may provide direction on these questions. 
 
SANCHEZ: The door wide open for future litigation, and really all of these cases.
 
GERHARDT: Yes.
 
SANCHEZ: Professor Michael Gerhardt, we hope you'll come back and talk us through the next Supreme Court term, once that happens. Thanks so much. 
 
GERHARDT: Thank you for having me. 
 
SANCHEZ: Of course. 
 
Now, to a story we've been watching very closely overseas, a fifth straight night of violent demonstrations in France over police shooting. 
 
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
 
SANCHEZ: Some eye-opening scenes, we're going to go live to Paris and hear what French President Emmanuel Macron plans to do as protests continue to spread. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:40:16]
 
SANCHEZ: French officials say they will keep 45,000 police deployed across the country following another night of violent protests. 
 
(VIDEO CLIP PLAYS)
 
SANCHEZ: In the fifth night of demonstrations, officials say more than 700 people were detained. Protesters also targeted the home of the mayor of a Paris suburb. He called it an assassination attempt after he says attackers ramp this car into his house while they were trying to set fire to it. 
 
France has been gripped by violent demonstrations following the police shooting death of a 17-year-old during a traffic stop. 
 
Let's take you now live to Paris with CNN's Nic Robertson. 
 
Nic, what does it look like where you are? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Well, Boris, this store here, fashionable sporting goods store, they're taking precautions, again, those wooden boards, they came down yesterday, they're going back up this evening because at this time of day, the potential for violence increases. 
 
They're concerned about it. I'm looking at other stores here up the main Champs-Elysee, the main shopping center here in Paris. A lot of tourists out still. A lot of other stores, you know, they're closed down, they closed down early. 
 
But if you -- if you spend around this way, keep coming around, me look over my shoulder here, you can see the police around as well. Not the same numbers that we saw a little later into the night last night, but the security presence is still here, the concern about riots still there. 
 
Look at the number of fires, for example, good statistic to follow for the violence, 871 set last night, about 2,100 night before, 3,900 the night before. We said last night that last night was pivotal. I think this night is going to be important to see if that trend of violence goes down. 
 
But that's what we're looking at their. People are not taking any chances. 
 
SANCHEZ: And, Nic, how is President Emmanuel Macron responding to all of this? It's been almost a week now of protests. 
 
ROBERTSON: Yeah. He's due to be having a meeting right now with his interior minister, his prime minister, his justice minister, the prime minister and interior minister were out meeting the mayor that you were mentioning there before. His house was attacked with his wife and two young children were in the house, ages five and seven. One of them was injured, his wife's leg was badly broken. 
 
So, what we're hearing from government officials is that they're going to keep on the security pressure, they're going to act with firmness to prosecute anyone who perpetrate violence. They're going to act with firmness as well to continue to deal with the situation. 
 
And that means that big numbers of police will be here, it does appear as if the police, when they're out, and they can come out as we saw, and looking at that video a few minutes ago, they can come out in really big and strong numbers, have running cat-and-mouse chases right down the street when they get to start with the protesters, is having that big number of active police on the streets. That seems to be making a difference. 
 
But again, is it going to continue to trend down? The pivot last night was for the better. Does it continue in that direction? Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: Nic Robertson, please keep us updated with the very latest. We hope you and the crew stay safe out there. Thanks so much. 
 
Staying in Europe now, we want to pivot to Ukraine where military officials say that Russia launched an air attack on the capital overnight, using Iranian made drones. City officials say that Kyiv's air defenses destroyed all of them. But three homes were still damaged by falling debris during the strike. This is the first time in 12 days that the capital has been targeted. 
 
Let's take you now to eastern Ukraine with CNN senior international correspondent, Ben Wedeman, who is live for us. 
 
Ben, what is the latest? 
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, certainly, after those overnight Shahed drone attacks on Kyiv, the concern is that perhaps the Russians are picking up their frequency of hitting cities like that. But on the front, what we've seen is a continued struggle by Ukrainian forces to make incremental gains. 
 
Yesterday, President Zelenskyy said that Russia is losing the war during -- this during a press conference with Spanish prime minister. But stressed that every meter, every kilometer cost lives and cautioned that this counteroffensive is going to take time. 
 
Now, this part of eastern Ukraine, we have seen what looks like a lot of HIMARS being fired in the direction of Bakhmut and other areas that are fairly hot in the front lines. In fact, we heard just a few hours ago the deputy defense minister of Ukraine describing the entire front line in Ukraine, which stretches 600 miles, as hot. But it appears that at the moment the focus is in the eastern part of the country, around Bakhmut, north and south of it, where the Ukrainian forces are trying to encircle the city. 
 
So far, however, they have not made a breakthrough. And south of Zaporizhzhia, where their long term goal is to reach or at least get close to the Sea of Azov, which would essentially cut off Russian forces based in the west of there. They're hoping that would be a critical blow against the Russians. 
 
This counteroffensive, now into its third week has yet to produce the kind of dramatic results many, both here in Ukraine, and in the West were hoping for -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yeah, a difficult pace of the counteroffensive, even as we're seeing instability within Russia's borders. 
 
Ben Wedeman from Eastern Ukraine, thank you so much. 
 
Still to come after the break, America's frontline of missile defense is overworked and undermanned. We have details on the strained conditions of the army's air defense and efforts to address it, next. 
 
And a quick programming note to share with you. CNN's July 4th special returns this year with an all-star lineup, celebrate spectacular fireworks, the biggest musical performances with Dana Bash and myself. 
 
CNN's "The Fourth in America" live July 4th at 7:00 p.m. Eastern, right here on CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:52:01]
 
SANCHEZ: New CNN reporting finds that the U.S. Army's air defense units are among the most overworked in the military, stretched thin by global threats. The critical army defense units are tasked with providing around the clock deterrence against our country 's biggest adversaries. 
 
CNN national security producer Haley Britzky joins us from Washington with more. 
 
Haley, break down what you found for us and what you're hearing from people inside the military. 
 
HALEY BRITZKY, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY PRODUCER: Yeah. So, Boris, senior army leaders say these soldiers are some of the most employed branch in the service. These deployments take them all over the world from the Pacific to the Middle East. We, of course, see the work that they're doing in Europe, training Ukrainians on their own defense systems for their war against Russia. And these deployments are critically important work that they're doing.
 
But they are taking a toll on the soldiers. Leaders say that they've seen an increase in the air defense soldiers going to behavioral health on post. So, meaning, seeking mental health support. They also have concerns about the unpredictable nature of these deployments and sort of the wear and tear that that has on army families. 
 
Leaders are aware of these challenges. They are working to address them because really, the demands around the world are only increasing for these troops. 
 
SANCHEZ: That is such an important point. And are there certain regions where these units are feeling that strain the hardest? 
 
BRITZKY: Certainly, so, we focused on two primary regions in this report, one is the Indo-Pacific. A lot of work is being done there. You know, stand with North Korean missile launches, those soldiers are on high alert. 
 
You know, the air and missile defense commander they spoke without in the Pacific said that it's not just the operational demands but also the extensive training exercise requirements. These soldiers are working with foreign nations in the region, you know, partnering with them on exercises. And given the sheer size of the region, that's a lot of time away from their families, away from home, and like I said, we see the work they do in Europe, working with Ukrainians. 
 
I spoke with one U.S. soldier who has led the U.S. Patriot training for the Ukrainians there who was emotional at times, recounting the work he does with his Ukrainian counterparts, knowing what's at stake for them as they go back to the front lines. 
 
So, really, it's all over the world, but significantly more so in those two regions of the world. 
 
SANCHEZ: It requires intense focus, that kind of work, and also an enormous sacrifice, we should note. 
 
What kind of changes our military leaders making to address this problem? 
 
BRITZKY: Yeah. So, Boris, multiple lines of effort here the army is taking. One of which is offering a little over $47,000 in enlistment bonus to bring in new soldiers and fill out some of these new units that the Army is planning to stand up over the next several years. These are new air defense unit staggered over the next few years. 
 
Leaders are also embedding mental health specialist, these are behavioral health specialists into air defense for grades. So, that it kind of helps take off some of the pressure for those soldiers unaddressed burn out if they need it. 
 <br>[14:55:03]
 
They're also reducing commitment for air defense soldiers in the Middle East. That's in part due to partners in that region being able to sort of, you know, employ their own air defense. So, instead of the five battalions, they're heading to two battalions. And they're also hoping to increase communication with family. 
 
So, leaders are really working hard here to assist the soldiers and families to make sure they're taking care of. 
 
SANCHEZ: Such an important effort and a really important report to pay attention to. 
 
Haley Britzky, thank you so much for that. 
 
We're still standing by this afternoon for the Baltimore police to give an update on a deadly mass shooting overnight. We are going to take you there when they go live. 
 
Plus, some terrifying moments to share with you when an indie car driver flipped his car seven times at 180 miles an hour. What happened, when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)