Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Gov. JB Pritzker (D-IL) is Interviewed about an Assault Weapons Law; New Policies for Access to Naloxone; Xavier Becerra is Interviewed about Access to Naloxone; Trump Organization Fined $1.6 Million; Mega Millions Reaches $1.35 Billion. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired January 13, 2023 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:30:00] 
 
ERICA HILL, CNN ANCHOR: Instead, Ukraine says it's actually holding the line there despite troops running out of both food and water. A CNN team nearby did witness some Ukrainian troops withdrawing from the town. 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR: Listen, the casualties there have been horrific. Russia capturing Soledar would mark a symbolic, if not a strategic victory for Moscow after months of big setbacks on the battlefield. 
 
CNN's Ben Wedeman, he's near those front lines. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: What we're seeing is Ukrainian forces are holding steady in these positions. And they seem to be ferrying, going back and forth, perhaps taking troops out of Soledar in what looks like a fairly organized pull back. 
 
As far as the situation in Soledar goes, even here, just two and a half miles away, the situation is not all together clear. Some of the soldiers tell us it's falling. Some of them tell us that it's still at least part of it in the hands of the Ukrainians. But we can still hear a fair amount of fire coming from that area. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: Goodness. Dangerous areas. Our teams are in there. Ben Wedeman right at -- two and a half miles outside of Soledar, in what is a highly contested, very bloody part of the battlefield. We're going to have more from Ben in the next hour. 
 
HILL: The need for the life-saving drug Naloxone is rising now as opioid overdoses spike across the country. How some federal changes could actually make it easier to access the drug. HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra will join us with more live next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:36:02] SCIUTTO: This week, Illinois became the ninth state to ban assault weapons. The law, which Presidents Biden and Obama have praised, bans certain firearms such as the AR-15-style rifle used in so many mass shootings, including Uvalde and Highland Park shootings last year, as well as high-capacity magazines. That said, a growing number of sheriffs in Illinois say they have issues with parts of the legislation, such as the requirement for existing owner of semi- automatic rifles to register them with the Illinois State Police. The sheriffs say they are not going to enforce that portion of the law. 
 
Here with me now is the governor of Illinois, JB Pritzker. 
 
Governor, thanks for taking the time this morning. 
 
GOV. JB PRITZKER (D-IL): Glad to be with you. 
 
SCIUTTO: So, you have sheriffs, in effect, openly defying this law, or saying they might, that they won't enforce a key provision of it. Are you concerned about your ability to enforce it? 
 
PRITZKER: Well, the requirement over the next year is for anybody that owns an existing assault weapon or any weapon that's banned under this law to register them, the serial numbers, with our state police. So, they have a year. There isn't any need for sheriffs to be enforcing anything over the next year. 
 
So, you know, I think it's a lot of grandstanding, frankly. And I know there's some of them that are opposed to the law. But the fact is, they've signed an oath of office to uphold and enforce the laws of the state of Illinois. And I expect them to do so. 
 
SCIUTTO: What penalty would state residents pay if they don't abide by that and within the next year come forward and register their weapons in this category? 
 
PRITZKER: Well, it begins with a fine. If they -- if they don't - you know, if they're caught, under this law, it begins with a fine. But a second instance, it is a class four felony. 
 
SCIUTTO: Gotcha. 
 
PRITZKER: So, you know, we expect people to follow -- look, most people in Illinois want to do the right thing and will. We also have cut off their ability to buy more assault weapons as of right now. That is the law of the land today.
 
SCIUTTO: Right.
 
PRITZKER: There's no purchasing or selling of these weapons in Illinois. 
 
SCIUTTO: Let me ask you about the effects of this. Earlier this year you noted on Twitter that the majority of guns used in cities, such as Chicago, came from outside of Illinois. I've heard the same from police in other states, such as New York. They talk about an iron pipeline from the south. Does a state gun law like yours work given that folks can traffic this stuff in from outside the state? 
 
PRITZKER: There's no doubt in my mind that we'd be way better off if there was a federal law. But the fact is that the larger the coverage of an assault weapon ban, the safer our residents are. So having a statewide ban is certainly the first step. There were individual bans, even in Highland Park. But, you know, the shooter in Highland Park simply went to another county -
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
PRITZKER: Another city in another county in Illinois and purchased one. So, you know, we need an assault weapons ban nationally. And I've spoken with the president about this and with members of Congress. We, obviously, need to elect gun safety advocates at the federal level like we did here at the state level. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
I just wonder if that's a realistic option because you did have, until a couple weeks ago, right, Democrats controlling not just the White House but both chambers of Congress and they couldn't move an assault weapons ban. They knew they didn't have the votes, particularly without 60 votes in the Senate. 
 
I mean is it a realistic prospect for a national ban given those numbers? 
 
PRITZKER: Well, let me remind you that we, too, here in Illinois had Democratic house and senate, a Democratic governor, and we had trouble moving an assault weapons ban for many years. And we were able to do it this time for a variety of reasons. The biggest one is that the survivors and the families of victims came together to, first of all, get everybody engaged in electing gun safety advocates in November, and then came together with the legislature to pass something really meaningful. 
 <br>[09:40:10]
 
So, it can happen in Washington, D.C. But I -- it is true, the NRA and their affiliates are very powerful, but we've overcome them here in Illinois. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
Well, you have another institution here to have a look at, right, and that is a very conservative Supreme Court. You did have events this week where they agreed to allow a New York handgun restriction law to remain in effect, but there was a note from Justices Alito and Thomas, two of the most conservative, in effect saying that applicants should not be deterred by today's order, which some read as an invitation to gun rights groups to challenge these laws. Do you worry that laws, state laws like your own, will die in the Supreme Court? 
 
PRITZKER: Well, of course, we are concerned about the rightward turn -- significant rightward turn of the Supreme Court. But the note that Alito and Clarence Thomas put out was a note about the procedural context of this law that they left in place. I -- we know the way they're going to vote. But I have to say, we have eight states that have passed assault weapons bans. We're the ninth state. So, we believe that the Supreme Court will take into account the fact that these are established law, have been for some time, and that these are weapons that kill people, worshippers in church and students at school and we'll leave in place our ban because these weapons truly are some of the most dangerous. 
 
SCIUTTO: Right. And, of course, it passed the Supreme Court muster many years ago when a national ban was passed in the '90s. 
 
Governor Pritzker, we appreciate you joining the broadcast this morning. 
 
PRITZKER: Thank you, Jim. 
 
HILL: Just ahead here, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra joining us with the major changes coming to prescription drug costs, as well as the unprecedented demand for the life-saving drug naloxone. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:53]
 
SCIUTTO: It can happen in a matter of just moments. A very small amount of fentanyl can send a person into an unresponsive overdosed state and potentially lead to death. But there is a potentially life- saving treatment. It is the drug naloxone. 
 
HILL: And now some policy changes at both the federal and the local level could allow more people to access and carry that medication. 
 
Joining us now with more, CNN medical correspondent Dr. Tara Narula.
 
So, first, remind us just how naloxone works and what this could mean, what could change in terms of greater access. 
 
DR. TARA NARULA, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, well, you said it's lifesaving, and it really is, in the same way that an Epipen is lifesaving for someone having an allergic reaction or a defibrillator, as we've talked about with cardiac arrest. And this is the same situation for someone who's having an overdose from opioids. 
 
Naloxone is -- basically works by blocking those opioid receptors in the brain and allowing someone's breathing to be restored. Usually when you're having an overdose, you have respiratory depression and that can ultimately lead to death. It works very fast, within two to three minutes. It comes in two ways that an individual who doesn't have a medical training or license could get, a nasal spray or an injectable. It's small. It's easy to carry. And the surgeon general actually put out recommendations in 2018 saying more Americans should carry this. 
 
In many instances of overdose, there is a bystander present. So, again, to be in a situation like that and not have to feel helpless and actually be able to save someone's life. 
 
Now, it is quick acting. It takes, as I said, two to three minutes to work. It only lasts about 30 to 60 minutes. So you do need to stay with someone until help comes. But essentially, we are looking at trying to increase access in this country in multiple different ways. So states, many states, have laws now that basically have what's called a standing order where someone at risk or if you know someone who's at risk can go to a pharmacy or community organization and obtain naloxone without a prescription. The FDA is working on fast- tracking an over-the-counter form of naloxone as early as March potentially. We know that certain states have vending machines now, certain cities like Philadelphia, states like California are looking at putting these in public locations, like libraries, bars. 
 
So, it is really about all of this increase in access. But let's not forget, it's also about harm reduction and treatment. You know, I recently visited one of the overdose prevention centers last year here in New York City, and they were very clear about saying that, look, this is about giving people another chance, right? So you give them naloxone, you give them another chance to get treatment, to get to recovery and to live. 
 
HILL: Yes, which is so important. 
 
Dr. Narula, really appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
NARULA: Thank you.
 
HILL: Joining me now to discuss further, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra. 
 
Mr. Secretary, nice to see you this morning. 
 
You know, picking up with Dr. Narula just left off, if approved the fact that naloxone would be more accessible to more Americans, what do you anticipate in terms of demand? 
 
XAVIER BECERRA, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY: Erica, we know that the number of deaths from fentanyl continue to increase. We know that we're losing more Americans today because of overdose. Back in 2021, we changed our overdose prevention strategy because we didn't believe it was focused on 21st century challenges. And so the harm reduction that you heard about just now, we're now trying to tackle that at a federal level as well, not just wait until the locals start to do it. 
 
And so we're trying to do everything we can to save a life and to reduce the level of harm that someone might inflect on themselves. And so our efforts at the federal level are to boost what they're doing locally with tried and true systems that are in place, evidence-based systems that do save lives. 
 
HILL: Locally what we're seeing -- you know Dr. Narula mentioned California, mentioned Philadelphia. Here in New York City Mayor Adams, at the end of last year, signed into law that there would be free kits available to clubs and bars. In addition to that, there is training here in New York City. You can get trained online so that you can respond. And there's been a PSA for years here in the city about recognizing an overdose. 
 
Does that need to be a broader effort across the country?
 
BECERRA: Yes. And remember, every state, every local jurisdiction decides how they want to do this. 
 <br>[09:50:02]
 
We want to support those that are using evidence-based methodologies to keep people from harming themselves and from dying. And so whether it's something like fentanyl strips, which previously the federal government did not participate in because of our differing guidelines. Today, we allow fentanyl strips to be part of the process where the federal government will support the use of fentanyl strips so that someone who is about to inject themselves with a perhaps fatal drug will know if it's laced with fentanyl before they inject themselves and hopefully save a life. So, we're doing the things that we've seen based on the evidence work. But, at the end of the day, we support what the locals do. 
 
HILL: In terms of -- let's talk now about lower drug prices, if we could. We know there's a very real need in this country to lower the cost of most prescription drugs across the board here. There are plans to begin bargaining with manufacturers for 10 Part D drugs later this year. But I have to say, I was really struck by this timeline. We're going to put it up for the folks at home. Nothing actually would take effect for three years. So, the negotiations don't begin until September, nine months from now. And then a year after that, in September of 2024, the prices will be published. Whatever is negotiated takes effect in January of '26. 
 
Why is this taking so long to even start the negotiations now. That's nine months out. Is there no way to start sooner? 
 
BECERRA: Erica, have you ever tried to do 100-yard sprint after 20 years of not running? You're probably going to hurt yourself. And so what we want to do is make sure that we can gear this up the right way. It is the first time in our known - our living history that we have an opportunity to actually negotiate with the pharmaceutical industry to get the best prices. So we're starting with ten. This year we will announce the ten drugs. We'll get ready for the process. It will be a negotiation. 
 
I wish it were done sooner. Congress gave us the outline, the road map on how to do this. The timeframe. But it's a good thing to do is the right way. Just the way when we launched Obamacare. We waited about three years before we actually launched it on the ground. Today close to 16 million Americans depend on Obamacare for their health insurance. 
 
HILL: All right, well, as we wait, as everybody's stretching to get ready for that 100-yard dash, I guess, insulin prices. You know we did get some good - some - obviously some good news on that for seniors, for Medicare enrollees, that they won't be paying more than $35 a month for each insulin prescription, which is covered under Medicare Part D. Not subject to a deductible. I think a lot of people, though, see that headline and in their mind, it involves insulin prices across the board. What is the reality that this could be further expanded? 
 
BECERRA: Oh, that should be the reality. It should not just apply to those who are Medicare recipients. The 65 million Americans, some of whom will need insulin, they're in great shape because now they don't pay more than $35 a month as a result of Inflation Reduction Act. But that should be something that applies to everyone who needs insulin. Unfortunately, Congress tried hard to include that for everyone. It didn't have the votes. Republican members did not support extending it to everyone. We hope, in the future, that will be the case because no American who needs insulin should have to pay more than $35 for that treatment for the month. 
 
HILL: Really quickly, I only have time for a yes or no, but the administration just renewed the public health emergency for Covid-19. Will this be the last time it's renewed?
 
BECERRA: Science will tell us that. 
 
HILL: Secretary Xavier Becerra, appreciate your time today, sir. Thank you.
 
BECERRA: Thank you. 
 
SCIUTTO: We do have this news just into CNN. The sentence handed down in the Trump Organization trial. We're going to be live outside the courtroom for that news right after this break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:57:38]
 
SCIUTTO: This just into CNN, a New York judge has handed out punishment now, this in the wake of convictions of two Trump Organization entities in a decade-long tax fraud scheme. 
 
HILL: CNN's Kara Scannell is outside the courthouse with the latest for us. 
 
So, what is this judgment, Kara? 
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Erica and Jim, the judge just handed down the sentence to those two Trump Organization entities, sentencing them to a maximum fine of $1.6 million. That is what the prosecution asked for and the judge said that rather than repeat all of the evidence that they had ticked through during the sentencing hearing, he said that he agreed. He noted that the Trump company lawyers have once again put the blame on their accountants, showing that they did not accept any responsibility. So, the judge said that he was going to impose this sentence. 
 
Now, this came after one of the prosecutors did go through all the evidence at the trial. And in this case, because it's a company, there is no individual who is going to prison. Allen Weisselberg was sentenced earlier this week. He pleaded guilty. He's serving five months in jail. But in this case, with the Trump corporation, there is no individual. So, the prosecutor there saying that this was important because -- the maximum fine because the only way to deter such conduct is to make it as expensive as possible. 
 
And we also have a statement from Alvin Bragg, the Manhattan district attorney who brought the case. He was inside of the courtroom. He also is making the point saying that this sends a message and reminder to corporations and executives that you can't cheat the tax code, that you have to pay your taxes. 
 
Now, again, the Trump Organization has not yet issued a statement or a comment on this. But this is a significant moment because it is, throughout all of these criminal investigations facing the former president, it is the only one that has come close to him. So it's a symbolic moment, the maximum fine of $1.6 million. 
 
HILL: Kara Scannell, appreciate it, thank you. 
 
Well, it turned out today, Friday the 13th, could actually be your lucky day. Tonight is the drawing for the second largest Mega Millions jackpot in history, $1.35 billion. 
 
SCIUTTO: Listen, it's a longshot, right? A lot of people want to win this. 
 
HILL: Can't win if you don't play, Sciutto. 
 
SCIUTTO: A lot of tickets are sold. The last winning ticket was sold in October in Florida just weeks after residents were hit by Hurricane Ian there.
 
CNN's Carlos Suarez is live at that lucky 7-Eleven in Fort Myers, Florida.
 
I wonder if folks think they might strike gold there twice in the same spot.
 <br>[10:00:05]