Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Biden Prepares For Tomorrow's Annual Address To The Nation; Interview With Keisha Lance Bottoms, White House Adviser For Public Engagement: President Biden's State Of The Union Speech; Controlled Release Of Chemicals From Derailed Train; Witness Disputes Murdaugh's Claim About Visit To His Mom Night Of Murder; Beyonce Officially Has The Most Grammys Of Any Artist. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired February 06, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: President Biden spent the weekend preparing for tomorrow's State of the union speech. Today Biden tweeted a photo of a binder that appears to be a draft of his speech with the caption getting ready. 
 
And in Washington police are also getting ready for Biden's annual address. They are ramping up security including a non-scalable fence around the Capitol grounds. CNN's Jeremy diamond joins us now. Just the reality of the times with that fence being built right now, Jeremy, but White House staffers are also previewing the president's speech today. What should we expect? 
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, that's right, Bianna, President Biden has been working alongside his advisors on this speech for weeks now and it's very clear listening to White officials and speaking with them that the U.S. economy is going to really be at the center of this speech. 
 
Both the president trying to talk about the economic progress that has been made under his watch and tying that progress directly to the policies of his administration over his first two years in office. 
 
But also looking forward at why he believes the implementation of those policies will carry the U.S. on the right track. That is also going to be a message of contrast -- a clear contrasts that President Biden will try to draw as he delivers this speech for the first time with a House Republican majority in office. 
 
And it also is coming as President Biden is preparing for what we expect to be his likely re-election campaign. This is going to be a soft launch of sorts for that re-election campaign. 
 
And it comes as the president is facing significant headwinds. New polling from ABC news and "The Washington Post" over the weekend shows that a majority of Americans still don't believe that President Biden has accomplished much in office. 
 
And so that certainly raises the stakes for tonight's speech as he is expected to address what will be one of the largest audiences that gets to speak to all year to try and convince Americans that he has in fact accomplished much and that those policies are leading to economic progress. 
 
There will of course be foreign policy in this speech as well. It is a moment for the president to lay down the marker of where he stands on major issues of global importance. And of course right now we have this new issue with the Chinese balloon that has flown over the United States, the heavy criticism that President Biden has faced over that. We expect him to certainly talk about his China policy, not clear yet whether he will address the balloon specifically -- Bianna. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, let's get some answers on that. Jeremy Diamond, thank you. 
 
With me now is Keisha Lance Bottoms, she is a White House senior adviser for public engagement. Thank you so much for joining us. So, let's get straight to that question. Will the president be addressing this Chinese surveillance balloon in the context of U.S./China relations? 
 
KEISHA LANCE BOTTOMS, WHITE HOUSE SENIOR ADVISOR TO PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT: Well, I think what you will hear from the president will be a number of things that are of concern to the American people as Jeremy mentioned. You will hear about the economy. You will hear about the president's desire for us to work together in a bipartisan manner. 
 
And I don't know if he will specifically address that, but what he will talk about is just the work that has been done by this administration to restore our standing on the world stage. Whether it is competing with China for manufacturing jobs, the safety of Ukraine, the NATO alliance. So, you will hear a number of things addressed by the president including those issues of international concern. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, and in terms of international concerns, I mean, this surveillance balloon was significant enough to cancel his top diplomat from a planned trip to China over the weekend to meet with President Xi. Obviously relations are very heightened right now in terms of where things stand between the two countries. They were trying to find sort of balance and leveling spot to begin with. How big of a setback is this in terms of U.S./China relations? 
 
BOTTOMS: Well, it's unfortunate -- the timing of course is very unfortunate, but we know that this is not the first time and will not likely be the last time that the Chinese have sent surveillance balloons over the continental U.S. as we've learned. We know that it was also done under the previous administration. 
 
But the president again has emphasized even as a candidate and as president how important it is for the United States to be re- established on the world stage. And that's the reason he has leaned in so heavily on the importance of NATO, that we be strong together. 
 
And certainly the timing of this is not ideal, but it is something that the president has taken into consideration in terms of his response. And also in listening to our national security advisers on how best to address this issue. [15:35:00]
 
GOLODRYGA: Let me move on to that new polling that we heard from Jeremy and that he referenced, the ABC "Washington Post" poll, showing that 62 percent of Americans think that the president has not accomplished much in his first two years in office, this despite historically low unemployment levels, gang busters jobs report just last week and historic legislation that has been passed. So how do you explain this disconnect? Is this a messaging issue, Keisha, or the leadership issue? 
 
BOTTOMS: Well, I've been on the ballot a time or two, and what I know is that polls are a snapshot in time. But when you think about where we are as a country on the heels of one of the most challenging times in the world's history, dealing with the pandemic, and all that it entailed, it's not surprising to me that people are discouraged, and they don't see the silver lining. So, the president of course has to continue to lean in on the messaging. 
 
I think as you look at what will happen over the next two years, it's going to be all about implementation, these things that have been passed. We saw in January the insulin cap come into play and I believe as people see more and feel more of the changes that have been made by this administration, then you will likely see those poll numbers change. 
 
But you don't govern by poll numbers. You govern with your eye on the prize. And for this president, that's meant delivering for the American people and making sure that these policies are implemented so people can feel these policies every single day. 
 
GOLODRYGA: Something that this president, this administration, said that they would like to see pass in the next couple years is the George Floyd Policing Act. We know that the Tyre Nichols family will be attending the State of the Union as guests of the president. They have been pushing for this legislation as well. It has stalled in a Democratic controlled Congress. What expectation if any can you have for it moving at all now that Republicans have the majority? 
 
BOTTOMS: Well, as you know, the numbers just didn't add up to get it passed in the Senate the last go round. I attended the funeral of Tyre Nichols along with the vice president and other members of the administration. And you can't look at the pain of that family and not be moved to action. 
 
So, the president met with leaders from the Congressional Black Caucus just last week. And had a very in-depth lengthy conversation on what more can be done to get this over the finish line. So, he's not going to stop trying. This will not be the first time that legislation has been put forth that people thought would go nowhere. 
 
With the leadership of Congress and with the support of the president, we're going to continue to lean in and try and do everything we can to make sure that what happened with Tyre Nichols does not happen again. You know the reality of this, you can't legislate away criminal behavior, but you certainly can have legislation in place that makes people think twice before they engage in the way that they did with this innocent young man. 
 
GOLODRYGA: All right, Keisha Lance Bottoms, we'll be watching tomorrow night. Thank you. 
 
And be sure to join Anderson Cooper and Jake Tapper for live coverage of President Biden State of the Union address. That starts tomorrow at 8:00 p.m. right here on CNN. 
 
Well, she did it. Beyonce now boasts the most Grammy wins of all-time. We'll have details of her record-breaking night. That's next. 
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GOLODRYGA: Happening right now in eastern Ohio, NTSB officials in the town of east Palestine are getting ready for a controlled release of dangerously toxic chemicals stored inside multiple derailed train cars. Hazmat teams are trying to avoid a potentially catastrophic explosion after the train hauling the chemicals crashed four days ago. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. MIKE DEWINE (R) OHIO: New information should up everyone's sense of urgency and their sense of danger. You know, you listen to the description if you are in that red zone, you are likely of a possible death. If you're in the yellow zone, certainly severe long term injuries.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Let's get to CNN's Gabe Cohen with more on this. So, Gabe, when can we expect this controlled release? 
 
GABE COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bianna, we have learned in the last couple minutes that that controlled release has actually been pushed back to 4:00 p.m. Eastern. So we should see it in about 15 minutes or so. The crew is doing a final safety checks right now trying to make sure all the pieces are in place according to one source on the ground there. 
 
Now, the purpose of this controlled release is to clear those unstable chemicals from five different railcars that are at that derailment site and hopefully to prevent a catastrophic explosion. So the plan is to blow a small hole just a couple inches wide in each of those cars to drain the vinyl chloride, that very flammable chemical, into trenches that have been built below that with lined with flares to burn off that chemical before the cars can overheat from the fire that has been raging since Friday, and potentially explode. 
 
This process, it could take around three hours or so. We still don't know exactly the amount of time. And right now there is still a very large evacuation area in place, up to two miles in one direction. 
 <br>[15:45:00] Because officials there aren't just concerned about that flying shrapnel that could potentially travel a mile during an explosion, but also potentially, Bianna, the release of extremely toxic chemicals like hydrogen chloride if there were to be an explosion.
 
GOLODRYGA: Yes, clearly it's a very complex process that's about to unfold and we'll bring it to you when it does happen. Gabe Cohen, thank you so much for covering this. 
 
Viola Davis won the "G" she needed to completed her EGOT last night. It's a status only 17 other have been able to accomplish ever. We'll have more on that up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
GOLODRYGA: Today in the ongoing double murder trial of Alex Murdaugh, the judge ruled to allow evidence of the former lawyer's alleged financial crimes in court. Murdaugh faces nearly 100 separate charges related to his finances. 
 
Meantime we also heard from the attorney representing the family of a 19-year-old girl who was killed in a 2019 boat crashed. Alex's son Paul was allegedly driving that boat when it crashed. Mark Tinsley said Alex tried to intimidate him to avoid paying a settlement in that case. CNN's Randi Kaye is following this story closely for us. So, Randi, what more did we learn today? A big decision by the judge. 
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, Bianna. But we also heard from Mushelle Shelley Smith. She was the caregiver for Alex Murtaugh's mother Libby. And she was really the only person who saw Alex Murdaugh around the time of the murder. 
 
She said he came to his mother's home sometime after 9:00 p.m. -- sometime between 9:00 and 9:30 p.m. She said in court that he only stayed for about 15 to 20 minutes. But shared the very strange conversation she had with Alex Murdaugh, she said she had with him the day after the murders. Listen to what she told the jury. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What was he telling you about, he was at the house the night of the murders. 
 
MUSHELLE SHELLEY SMITH, CAREGIVER TO ALEX MURDAUGH'S MOTHER: That he had been there 30, 40 minutes. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Was he there 30 to 40 minutes that night? 
 
SMITH: Not to my knowledge. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Why are you crying, Miss Smith? 
 
SMITH: Because it's a good family and I loved working there and I'm sorry all this happened. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAYE: She was very emotional on the stand as you could see, Bianna, but she was basically saying or insinuating that Alex Murdaugh has sent her some kind of message that she should be saying he was there 30 to 40 minutes that night and the defense was certainly not happy about that. She said that conversation made her nervous, so nervous in fact she that called her brother about it. 
 
She also talked quite a bit about this blue tarp, which she called a blue tarp. Now the prosecution had laid out in its opening statement that they would hear -- the jury would hear about a blue raincoat that was found at his mother's home that had gunshot residue on it. She continued to call it a blue tarp. But again, the defense went at her and said, was it a tarp or was it a raincoat? And she called it a tarp. So, that was a small win for the defense -- Bianna.
 
GOLODRYGA: All right, Randi Kaye, thank you. 
 
Well, the first pieces of that Chinese spy balloon recovered from the ocean are now at the FBI lab in Quantico. What we're learning, just ahead.
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
GOLODRYGA: Well, as if it was ever in doubt, it is now official that Beyonce, indeed, runs the world -- at least the entertainment world, that is. Beyonce Knowles made history at the Grammys last night and broke the record for the artist with the most trophies ever won. She now tops the list with 32 awards besting the likes of Quincy Jones and Stevie Wonder. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are witnessing history tonight. Breaking the record for the most grammy wins of all time, stand and show your respect, it's "Renaissance," Beyonce. 
 
BEYONCE KNOWLES, RECORD ARTIST: Thank you so much. I'm trying not to be too emotional. And I'm trying to just receive this night. I want to thank God for protecting me. Thank you, God. I'd like to thank the queer community for your love and for inventing this genre. God bless you, thank you so much to the Grammys. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLODRYGA: Proud husband Jay-Z there cheering her on with her last night. Beyonce took home four wins, but not the coveted album of the year, losing out to Harry Styles. CNN's senior entertainment reporter Lisa France is here with all of the excitement and the reaction. So, Lisa, despite history being made last night, Beyonce's fans are not all that happy about her losing out on album of the year. What is your take? LISA FRANCE, CNN SENIOR ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Absolutely they're
 
 not, Bianna. My take is, what does Beyonce have to do to win album of the year? It was 2017 all over again, where she lost out to Adele's "25" and even Adele took to the stage and said that Beyonce was the artist of her life and that she really felt like "Lemonade" deserved to win album of the year back then. 
 
This year, it's hard for me to be critical, I got to say, of Harry Styles, as I told a colleague, being critical of Harry Styles feels like kicking a puppy, and even know he had an amazing album, "Renaissance" was flawless. And so, members of The Hive, which, of course, is her fans who are just so devoted to her, are so upset, because even though she made history, that album was such an incredible album. And it's like if "Renaissance" can't pull off album of the year, will Beyonce ever get that award? It's a huge award and lots of people feel like she deserves it. I feel like she deserves it. 
 
GOLODRYGA: She has many more years ahead of her though I have to say, even though I know her fans are disappointed. History also being made last night, actress Viola Davis joining an very exclusive list of EGOT winners. And we have Lizzo dabbing record of the year following a spectacular performance. It was just an incredible night. 
 
FRANCE: It really was. It was just so much joy with both of them. Of course, Viola Davis now becomes only the third Black woman to be an EGOT winner. She joins Whoopie Goldberg and Jennifer Hudson. And Lizzo gave an incredible performance, she gave a wonderful speech. She also beat Beyonce and she paid tribute to Beyonce, saying when she was in fifth grade, she skipped school to be able to go see Beyonce. So, it's just a wonderful night. Great Grammys night. 
 
GOLODRYGA: A nice Houston connection there, as well. Lisa France, thank you, it was a magical evening. 
 
FRANCE: It was. Thank you. 
 
GOLODRYGA: "THE LEAD" with jake tapper starts right now.