Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Banging Sounds Heard in Search for Missing Sub; Violence Escalating across West Bank; U.S.-China Relations; Romanian Judge Adjourns Tate Brothers Case until Friday; Nine Egyptians Accused in Migrant Boat Accident Ordered to Remain in Custody until Trial; Dozens Die in India Heat Wave; Women Still Waiting for Gender Equality. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired June 21, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST (voice-over):  I'm Becky Anderson, live from Abu Dhabi, where the time is 6 o'clock in the evening. This is CONNECT THE 
 
 WORLD, you are more than welcome.
 
Coming up this hour, new hope in the search for a missing sub near the Titanic shipwreck. 
 
Tensions soar between Israelis and Palestinians. 
 
Joe Biden compares the Chinese president Xi Jinping to quote, "dictators." 
 
And what do you give the football star who has everything?
 
More on that, coming up this hour. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  We begin this hour with continued hope of survivors, that's what the U.S. government is saying, after banging noises were heard in a search 
 
 for the missing Titanic sub. 
 
Crews scouring the North Atlantic are rushing to expand search efforts, the Titan submersible, with five people on board, was on its descent toward 
 
 Titanic's wreckage off Newfoundland in Canada, on Sunday. Then it lost contact with its support ship. We'll begin this part of the show with CNN's 
 
 Paula Hancocks (sic), who picked up the story for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A sound of hope in the search and rescue of the missing submersible with five people on 
 
 board. According to an internal U.S. government memo, sonar picked up banging sounds underneath the water Tuesday at 30-minute intervals. 
 
TIM TAYLOR, PRESIDENT AND CEO, TIBURON SUBSEA:  Regular 30 minute intervals is a manmade thing, it is not a natural occurrence. It doesn't happen like 
 
 that in nature. It is a good sign of hope. 
 
NEWTON (voice-over):  The memo was not clear about when the banging was heard on Tuesday or how long it lasted. 
 
TAYLOR:  They can triangulate on noise. Again, it is only happening every 30 minutes. They only have a data update every 30 minutes. So if it was 
 
 happening every minute, it would be a lot easier and a lot faster. 
 
NEWTON (voice-over):  However, time continues to be a critical factor as the vessel's oxygen supply dwindles. 
 
CAPT. JAMES FREDERICK, U.S. COAST GUARD:  We will do everything in our power to affect a rescue. 
 
NEWTON (voice-over):  So far, the U.S. Coast Guard says it has searched an area about the size of Connecticut. 
 
FREDERICK:  Getting salvage equipment on scene is a top priority. 
 
NEWTON (voice-over):  The U.S. Navy is sending a flyaway deep ocean salvage system, similar to the one pictured here, for retrieving heavy underwater 
 
 items, like the small submersible. 
 
On board, OceanGate CEO and founder, Stockton Rush; British adventurer Hamish Harding; one of Pakistan's richest men, Shahzada Dawood, and his 19-
 
 year-old son, Sulaiman Dawood. And the vessel's pilot, French submariner and ex-Navy officer Paul-Henri Nargeolet. 
 
DAVID GALLO, SENIOR ADVISER, RMS TITANIC INC.:  If I was in a bind with anybody, it would be Paul-Henri Nargeolet. He would do everything he can, 
 
 and without panic, to work his way out of this situation. 
 
NEWTON (voice-over):  As the ongoing search and rescue continues, we are learning of concerns in 2018 regarding the planned expedition of the 
 
 submersible to that Titanic wreckage site. 
 
In a letter obtained by "The New York Times," and addressed to the OceanGate CEO, Stockton Rush, the Manned Underwater Vehicles Committee of 
 
 the Marine Technology Society raised these concerns. 
 
"Our apprehension is that the current "experimental' approach adopted by OceanGate could result in the negative outcomes (from minor to 
 
 catastrophic) that would have serious consequences for everyone in the industry."
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)  
 
ANDERSON:  And Paula Newton with us live now from Ottawa in Canada, 
 
Paula, just how long do those in the submersible have at this point?
 
NEWTON:  You know, we are talking about 24 hours but that is an estimate. You heard from my report the kind of expertise that is on board. That bodes 
 
 well for the amount of oxygen that is left. 
 
Look, Becky, there is not a situation here where the clock hits 96 hours, which is about as much oxygen as those five passengers would have, and then 
 
 all of a sudden the search and rescue is called off. No. That's not going to happen. 
 
They'll continue to try, for several more days, as I understand it. What's happening, now is that those prepositioned assets that they had already 
 
 started to get both in the air, on the sea, which they started 48 hours ago to try and put in the North Atlantic, are now arriving. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
NEWTON:  And that means they are in the best position to follow up on those noises that they heard, which is really a sign of, hope but also quite 
 
 chilling as you can imagine, Becky. 
 
It means that this, as you heard from my report, is not something that's natural. The experts, both the CEO Stockton Rush and the naval expert, 
 
 Paul-Henri, will know what to do. They will already understand the kind of surveillance equipment that perhaps is in the water. 
 
The key is locating the Titan. Once that happens, they have decided they will try whatever they can to try and bring it to the surface. Right now 
 
 the U.S. Coast Guard is scheduled to give us an update in about two or three hours from now. 
 
As we continue to hear from them about more assets, both in the air and in the sea, that will continue to try and locate these five passengers. Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Paula Newton on the story for you in Canada, Paula, thank you. 
 
In the next hour, I'll be speaking to Anchine Frank (ph), who was on a sub mission last year with two of the Titan expedition members, who described 
 
 Paul-Henri Nargeolet and OceanGate's chief executive and founder Stockton Rush as "consummate professionals." More next hour. 
 
Palestinians are calling for urgent international intervention after a spike in violence in the West Bank, deadly violence. The latest outbreak 
 
 happening today, the mayor of a Palestinian village says a man was killed when hundreds of Israeli settlers attacked the village. 
 
The call for help came after a Palestinian official told CNN, dozens of Palestinian villages were attacked by Israeli settlers overnight. This 
 
 violence sparked by the shooting deaths, Tuesday, of four Israeli settlers by Hamas militants. Hadas Gold following developments for us from 
 
 Jerusalem. 
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. Becky, as we speak, it seems as though the violence is continuing in the occupied West Bank. 
 
 Definitely around the Israeli settlement, where that attack took place, that killed those four Israelis. 
 
In the last hour so we are getting reports of hundreds of settlers entering a nearby village. We are hearing reports of one Palestinian man being 
 
 killed. Not clear exactly who fired the shot. The Israeli army reporting that it was a police officer. 
 
We are hearing of several other injuries as a result of live bullets. This is a continuing situation, that is coming off of what was already happening 
 
 overnight and in the last day. 
 
We were actually at the scene of both the shooting attack and then in some of the villages, where the settlers attacked in the ensuing hours. We spoke 
 
 with locals and saw the damage. 
 
And what was striking to me is that both Israelis and Palestinians telling me that they had not seen spikes of violence like this, again, since the 
 
 end of the Second Intifada. So this is decades ago, the last time they saw violence like this, take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD:  The attack started here at the (INAUDIBLE). That's part of a gas station complex just outside the borders of the Eli settlement in the 
 
 occupied West Bank. The attackers came to this restaurant, shooting through to the restaurant, killing the first of the three victims, including two 
 
 teenagers. 
 
The fourth victim was killed at the gas station that is just in front of us. Israeli officials saying that another four people were injured. They 
 
 think it's the work of two Hamas operatives, who came here in a car. 
 
The first of the gunmen was shot and killed by an armed civilian who happened to be onsite and the second gunman managed to get away, steal a 
 
 car. That triggered an hours-long manhunt by Israeli forces before he was cornered and shot and killed as well just north of here. 
 
But here, at the scene, we are still seeing evidence of the bloody scene from the night before. We are seeing bullet casings on the ground, medical 
 
 gloves, medical equipment as well as bloodstains. 
 
Here on the restaurant itself, you can still see it is riddled with bullet holes, including this one bullet hole that managed to make its way through 
 
 and smashed this window. 
 
Hours after those attacks on the gas station and restaurant that killed those four Israelis, Israeli settlers rampaged through Palestinian villages 
 
 like this one, Al-Lubban Al-Sharqeya, burning, as you can see, dozens of cars, parts of these cars just completely melting off. 
 
In fact, right here in the morning after, there is still smoke smoldering from the fires. We've been speaking with villagers here, who say their 
 
 homes were damaged. Palestinian officials say that at least 37 Palestinians were injured, mostly as a result of stone throwing. 
 
Villagers we're talking to here, saying they haven't seen violence like this against their property, against their homes, since the days of the 
 
 Second Intifada and now that they live in fear of what can come. 
 
There is now a big push, especially on the right wing of the Israeli political spectrum and the right wing of this current government, for a 
 
 much bigger and broader military operation in the occupied West Bank than what we have seen in the past. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
GOLD:  That could lead people here fear to (sic) even more violence. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD:  Becky, what was striking to me, as I spoke to the mayor of that settlement, of Eli, telling me he is actually disappointed in prime 
 
 minister Benjamin Netanyahu, despite the fact he leads this right-wing government because he does not feel that Benjamin Netanyahu is doing 
 
 enough. 
 
He wants to see a bigger, broader military operation, saying he's tired of these small operations. They want to see something bigger and broader being 
 
 done now. That's something that we are seeing, the right flank of this government, really trying to push for. Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Hadas Gold back from the West Bank there in Jerusalem, thank you. 
 
To London, now where a Ukraine recovery conference is underway. So far nations are stepping up for Ukraine's postwar future. U.S. secretary of 
 
 state Antony Blinken, pledging more than $1 billion additional to help Ukraine fix its damaged infrastructure, including its power grid. 
 
Britain's Rishi Sunak announced a new war risk framework to help insurers underwrite investments in Ukraine. The U.K. plans to guarantee $3 billion  
 
 of World Bank loans for the war ravaged nation. CNN's Nic Robertson is following developments in London. 
 
We've had Ukraine's president involved in this conference as well. 
 
What did he have to say?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN SENIOR DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  He said he was looking for investment in five particular areas:  infrastructure, energy, 
 
 manufacturing, agriculture, information technology. These were the specific areas he mentioned. 
 
But I think perhaps the biggest takeaways were how he said Ukraine was addressing this issue of corruption, that this was an issue that would 
 
 potentially cause concern for international business, private business investors. 
 
He said the government was dealing this with new technology, new reforms in the customs processes, that money would not touch necessarily government 
 
 departments or government officials. 
 
So he was offering here some certainty away from the perceptions that Ukraine still might not have made all the reforms necessary, that it is in 
 
 the process of making, to join the European Union. 
 
Of course, one of those reforms is on corruption. He also gave -- drew a picture of what Ukraine was to the world and what it is in the future, if 
 
 it gets this sort of financial assistance, what it is for the world's 600 million people, he said, depending on Ukrainian agricultural goods. 
 
What it would be in the future is a provider of clean energy, a net producer of electricity, shipping it to, Europe outside of Ukraine. That 
 
 was something that was echoed by the U.S. secretary of state, Antony Blinken, who said the U.S. is providing an additional $1.3 billion  of 
 
 funding. 
 
Some of that would go to rebuilding the energy, infrastructure of the country to make it more integrated with Europe. So you know, the messages 
 
 aligned there on what Ukraine can be going forward. 
 
But I think there is an important message ripped across all of this, for Vladimir Putin , that not only will the West provide weapons and support 
 
 Ukraine needs to defeat Russia but it will rebuild afterwards. 
 
That's an affirmative message, which tells President Putin that Ukraine is orienting itself firmly to the West, that there is no space in Ukraine for 
 
 Russia in the future and that whatever Russia wants and Putin wants out of Ukraine now, the West is planning and building for an entirely different 
 
 vision of that. 
 
ANDERSON:  Nic, thank you. 
 
This meeting, of course, follows Antony Blinken's visit to China. U.S.- China relations have hit a new snag today, right on the heels of Blinken's visit to Beijing, where he was attending meetings to mend relations between 
 
 the two superpowers. 
 
In unscripted remarks at a fundraiser on Tuesday night, U.S. President Joe Biden compared his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, to dictators. And China 
 
 is furious, calling the comparison an open political provocation and extremely absurd and irresponsible. 
 
CNN White House reporter Priscilla Alvarez joins me now from San Francisco in California. 
 
I think it's important to provide some context for Biden's comments. 
 
What exactly did he say and what was the context for these comments?
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Well, President Biden was attending fundraisers here in San Francisco when he provided those 
 
 unscripted remarks. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
ALVAREZ:  Speaking to the Chinese spy balloon that the U.S. shot down earlier this year, he said, quote, "The reason why Xi Jinping got very 
 
 upset in terms of when I shot that balloon down, with two boxcars full of spy equipment in it, he did not know it was there." 
 
He goes on to say, "No, I'm serious. That's what's a great embarrassment for dictators, when they didn't know what happened." 
 
Now this builds on similar comments that President Biden said over the weekend, when he called that incident "embarrassing." Of course, this is an 
 
 incident that inflamed tensions between U.S. and China. 
 
Just over the weekend as you mentioned, secretary of state Antony Blinken visited China and met with his Chinese counterpart to try to smooth over 
 
 those relations and open up those channels of communication between the two countries. 
 
Now we know that some U.S. officials found these remarks surprising. They were unscripted remarks by President Biden. But he has still, at least over 
 
 the weekend, indicated hope that he would meet with the Chinese president in the months to come. 
 
The last time the two men met was last November on the sidelines of a summit. But of course, these remarks did not sit well with China. 
 
In a statement from the foreign ministry spokesperson, they said, quote, "The remarks seriously contradict basic facts, seriously violate diplomatic 
 
 etiquette and seriously infringe on China's political dignity, which is an open political provocation." 
 
Now we do not know yet if that is going to affect this already fragile relationship in any future meetings between the Chinese president and 
 
 President Biden. But we know that, at least for now, the hope remains the two can continue to smooth over that relationship, which is critical, on so 
 
 many issues, ranging from fentanyl crisis, to the war in, Ukraine to the tension of American citizens. 
 
All issues that have been raised over the, weekend during those high stakes meetings. 
 
ANDERSON:  7:16 am in San Francisco, thank, you at 10:16 on the East Coast. And it is 6:16 in the evening here in Abu Dhabi. 
 
CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson, live, from the Middle East programming hub. 
 
Still ahead, self-proclaimed misogynist Andrew Tate and his brother appear in a Romanian court in charges of human trafficking and rape. What he told 
 
 reporters today ahead of their preliminary hearing. 
 
And India struggling to make brutal heat wave. Why critics are accusing the government there of not doing enough to prevent heat related deaths. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  A Romanian judge has adjourned the case of online influencer Andrew Tate and his brother until Friday. These brothers appeared in court 
 
 today, charged with human trafficking and rape. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
ANDERSON:  The judge was expected to set a trial date on his way to court but Tate told reporters he believes in God and the justice system. CNN's 
 
 Salma Abdelaziz has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDREW TATE, ONLINE INFLUENCER:  I do believe if I had to predict the future that they will charge me.
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):   Another chapter in the saga of divisive social media influencer Andrew Tate. Now he, his brother 
 
 and two female Romanian citizens have been indicted in Romania.
 
Prosecutors say the charges are human trafficking, rape and setting up a criminal gangs. The Tate brothers and the women have been under house 
 
 arrest during the criminal investigation for alleged abuses against seven women, accusations they have denied.
 
But who is this self-proclaimed misogynist?
 
Back in 2016 Andrew Tate found his first came to notoriety, when he was removed from the British reality TV show, "Big Brother," with no public 
 
 reason given.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You learn a lot more by being quiet.
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice-over):  In the years since, Tate turned his attention to online creation, where he shot to Internet fame, racking up at least 11.6 
 
 billion views on TikTok, mostly for his views on masculinity, gender roles and wealth.
 
TATE:   I don't think the world has ever been equal. I think that the modern society we live in has been built by men. All the roads you see, all 
 
 the buildings you see, everything around you, men built.
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice-over):  Like this video, where the former kickboxer speaks about his version of so-called equality.
 
TATE:  You had a completely different role --
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice-over):  Tate's rhetoric prompted concern from critics about his influence on teenage boys before being suspended by most major 
 
 social media networks last August for violating their policies.
 
Controversies around Tate and his brother slowly became a legal issue, as Romanian prosecutors pursued claims of human trafficking and rape. Just 
 
 before his December arrest, Tate became embroiled in a Twitter spat with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, over his car's emission.
 
TATE:  I'm not actually mad at her. Please bring me pizza and make sure that these boxes are not recycled.
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice-over):  Now as the brothers await trial, Tate's Twitter has since been reinstated, with more than 6.9 million followers reading his 
 
 every word. Commentators wonder whether it may take more than a clever tweet to change the tide -- Salma Abdelaziz, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Let's bring in Salma Abdelaziz. 
 
What happens next, Salma?
 
ABDELAZIZ:  I just want to start by playing that video again, Becky, of Andrew Tate and his brother, Tristan Tate, strutting into the courthouse 
 
 today. I mean it is with absolute bravado that they walked in to face what are extremely serious charges against them. 
 
Romanian prosecutors announcing the indictment for trafficking, rape, creating a criminal gang. But these brothers continue to maintain not only 
 
 their innocence but their following. Take a listen to what Andrew Tate said to reporters after the hearing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TATE:  I would like to say thank you to all the supporters we have around the world, regardless of what the mainstream media keeps, saying and the 
 
 lies (INAUDIBLE) tens of thousands of messages from people, every single day supporting, us. 
 
And they understand that we're not the first affluent, wealthy men who have been unfairly attacked. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDELAZIZ:  Now the court today was set to discuss two things. First of all, the preventative detention; the brothers have been held under house 
 
 arrest since a court ruling issued they could be out of jail and under house arrest in March of this year. 
 
The second matter for the court to decide on was to set a date for the actual trial. You have to remember, this could take years potentially. And 
 
 in the meanwhile, eyeballs continually are drawn to Andrew Tate's one and only social media account on Twitter now. 
 
He has garnered millions of followers since that was reactivated last year. He has tweeted dozens of times since the indictment was announced 
 
 yesterday. Just one of his videos, Becky, had 4 million views. 
 
That is why critics, parents, those who are trying to oppose Andrew Tate misogynistic views are absolutely still horrified and captivated by his 
 
 presence. 
 
ANDERSON:  Salma Abdelaziz is on the story with the very latest. Thank you, Salma. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories, that are on our radar right now. In Colombia, the senate did not 
 
 pass a constitutional reform, to legalize recreational marijuana, for adults. The measure reached (INAUDIBLE) in the final debate but only 47 
 
 senators voted in favor of, it. 
 
An absolute majority of 54, votes would have been needed, to get it passed. 
 
Inflation in the United Kingdom remain unchanged at 8.7 percent in May. That data defying forecasts of a cooling in prices. It is now almost 
 
 certain that the Bank of England will raise interest rates again, on Thursday, threatening even more turmoil, in the mortgage market. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  And nine Egyptians arrested over the migrant boat tragedy off Greece will remain temporarily until their trial. The crew 
 
 members are facing human trafficking charges.
 
They were arrested by Greek authorities, after the boat capsized last week, killing at least 82 people. Hundreds are still missing. 
 
ANDERSON:  And we cannot underscore how important this story is. We have a lot more online for, you including one report from CNN, which visits a 
 
 remote mountain village in Pakistan, where nearly 2 dozen residents who boarded that boat, hoping for a better life, remain unaccounted for. That 
 
 is cnn.com. 
 
Still to come on CONNECT THE WORLD, extreme heat plus the southern U.S. breaking records. We'll tell you how high these scorching temperatures are 
 
 rising and if any relief is in sight. 
 
And we will hear from the -- some of the men who pioneered submarine tourism, about why he is anxious for those on the Titanic submersible.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON (voice-over):  Welcome back, you are watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson, in Abu Dhabi. The time is just before half past 6 
 
 in the evening. These are your headlines this hour. 
 
Multiple outbreaks of violence are reported in the West Bank, after the shooting death of four Israeli settlers by a Hamas gunman, on Tuesday. The 
 
 mayor of a Palestinian village says a man there was killed today when Israeli settlers attacked that village. 
 
And a Palestinian official says settlers attacked Palestinians in spots across the northern West Bank overnight, injuring about 3 dozen people. 
 
Government, charity and business officials from dozens of nations are meeting in London to help Ukraine plan for its recovery from Russia's war. 
 
 The U.S. says it will give Kyiv more than $1 billion  to help fix the nation's power grid and other critical infrastructure. 
 
Banging sounds picked up by sonar devices are offering new hope as rescue crews scoured the North Atlantic for the missing Titanic submersible. Time, 
 
 though, is running out. The U.S. Coast Guard says the five people aboard the Titan have about a day's worth of oxygen left on the vessel. 
 
ANDERSON:  World-renowned explorer Dr. Bertrand Piccard is the chairman of the environmental non-profit, the Solar Impulse Foundation.
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
ANDERSON:  He also happens to be the son of the Swiss oceanographer, Jacques Piccard, pictured here, who invented the first tourist submarine. A 
 
 short time ago Piccard talked to my CNN colleague about why he fears for those on the Titan. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. BERTRAND PICCARD, CHAIRMAN, SOLAR IMPULSE FOUNDATION:  The first thing is, when you go down, if you lose communication, you come back up 
 
 immediately. If you have a technical problem, you have ultimately the safety ballast, the weight that has been dropped, so the submarine comes 
 
 back to the surface immediately. 
 
And this is what makes me really worry about the situation of the Titan submersible, is that the contact was lost during the dive, before it 
 
 touched the bottom, and the submersible did not come back up automatically to the surface.
 
And this is something really worrying. It's not like if it's disappeared on the bottom because, on the bottom, it can be stuck in a rope, in a cable, 
 
 whatever, and can be rescued by another submarine. But in this case, I'm really afraid.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, the sub's five man crew includes two world renowned explorers and underwater adventurers as well as a wealthy father and son on 
 
 their first ever trip of this kind. 
 
Leading the expedition is OceanGate founder and CEO, Stockton Rush. He is joined by experienced French diver Paul-Henri Nargeolet. He's been on more 
 
 than 30 deep sea excursions to the Titanic wreckage. 
 
British billionaire Hamish Harding also on board. The adventurer has also traveled to space in the Blue Origin with its founder, Jeff Bezos. And 
 
 rounding out the crew prominent Pakistani business man Shahzada Dawood and his son, Sulaiman. 
 
Well, a sweltering heat wave has killed at least 44 people in India's northern Bihar state. And officials are investigating the death of dozens 
 
 of people in Uttar Pradesh that have been linked to the heat. At least 68 people died last, week as temperatures soared and many others were 
 
 hospitalized. 
 
The country's meteorological department says some districts are recording temperatures above 114 degrees Fahrenheit or 46 degrees Celsius. Let's get 
 
 you to CNN's Vedika Sud, who is live in New Delhi. 
 
These are sort of temperatures, I have to say, if you are a resident of Abu Dhabi, where I am, you may be more familiar. These are extremely 
 
 unfamiliar, where you are. 
 
What is the latest on this deadly heat wave?
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Becky, you can count us in, now, can't you?
 
Look at the temperatures we're talking, about 40, 45, 46 degrees. And June is considered the hottest month of the year here in India. And climate 
 
 experts are now worried. They say that heat waves across India, especially the northern, belt is just intensifying by the years going by. And that is 
 
 what we are seeing in both Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the two most populous states in India. 
 
In Uttar Pradesh, what's really bewildering and baffling right, now is how state officials do not want to link the deaths to the heat wave, to the 
 
 heat that is being witnessed in Ballia district. Imagine at least 16, deaths in just one district of Uttar Pradesh.
 
And initially, what's also very interesting is that you had a health official from the district come out and say, yes, the first 24 deaths that 
 
 were reported last, week are connected to the heat wave. 
 
He was shouted out. He was transferred to another place and then officials have been saying, there could be various other reasons for it. There are 
 
 the ailments that are being reported. 
 
So as of now there's an investigation looking into it. But the larger picture is this. There is an impact of climate change in India. We have 
 
 seen it in the Bay of Bengal with the cyclones, you and I've spoken about that often. 
 
The cyclones hitting Bay of Bengal, hitting Bangladesh and the coastal areas of India. Also, if you remember, in February of this year, India 
 
 witnessed the highest temperatures ever and this crosses over 100 years. That was also something very surprising for climate experts. 
 
Along with, that "The Lancet" report, published last year, talks about how, in spring last, year in the countries of Pakistan and India, the 
 
 temperatures were really, high and how the heat waves will most likely cause 30 times more because of climate change than any other reason.
 
So this all comes to one fact, climate change. What experts say, Becky, is there will be more heat waves because it's going to intensify. You have the 
 
 health minister of India chairing a high-level meet and taking some steps and measures. 
 
He was talking to at least representatives from seven states in India that have been impacted by heat waves. And he has asked them to take note, be 
 
 cautious. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
SUD:  And make sure they note (ph) all the deaths and try to avoid any other deaths that can be reported from these areas. So that is the concern, 
 
 here in India and this is not the end of. It hopefully monsoon hits soon. Until then, we are bracing for more heat waves to hit parts of northern 
 
 India. Back to you.
 
ANDERSON:  And we'll stay across that story, thank, you Vedika.
 
The U.S. also feeling the heat. Tens of millions in the South and Southwest are under extreme heat advisories. In Texas, several cities have been 
 
 dealing with scorching temperatures, breaking records, there with temperatures as high as 45 degrees Celsius. 
 
The extreme heat could put a strain on power grids, electric companies asking residents to limit usage, to avoid power outages. Meanwhile, storms 
 
 have knocked out power to hundreds of thousands of across the South, leaving them vulnerable, as temperatures rise. 
 
(WEATHER REPORT) 
 
ANDERSON:  Still ahead, if truth be told, Ronaldo has scored a lot of goals hasn't he?
 
But his last one was truly special. We will tell you why, after this.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  Well, women won't achieve gender equality with men for another 131 years, not until 2154. That is according to a new report by the World 
 
 Economic Forum. 
 
It found the overall gender gap only closed by 0.3 percent compared to last year. The Gender Gap Index measures parity across four areas:  economics, 
 
 education, health and political empowerment. 
 
Well, if my daughters were to have grandchildren, who were daughters, I guess, they might be around to see that. 
 
(SPORTS) 
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END