Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Libya And Morocco Both Trying To Recover After Major Natural Disasters; North Korea Leader Kim Jong Un Visits Russia's President Putin; Zain Asher Discusses The Division In Brazil; President Tinubu Promises To Improve Electric Supply; Fulton County Georgia Judge Separates Donald Trump And Co-Defendants From Two Others Seeking Speedy Trial. Guatemala's President-Elect Says He's Suspending Presidential Transition Process; Players From Spain's Top Women's Football Teams Call Off Strike. Aired 12- 1p ET

Aired September 14, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello. I'm Zain Asher in New York and this is "ONE WORLD." I want to start in North Africa where two countries 
 
 are reeling from catastrophic events. Libya and Morocco are both desperately trying to recover after major natural disasters that have 
 
 killed thousands of people in both countries. Parts of eastern Libya are in ruins after massive flooding while in Morocco, the search for victims 
 
 continues after a powerful earthquake reduced villages to rubble. 
 
We know that aid is slowly making it way to survivors in the hard hit mountain villages of Morocco after Friday's devastating earthquake. The 
 
 death toll approaching 3000 with more than 5000 injured. Many survivors were left frustrated as they had to wait days for government to help to 
 
 arrive. With emotions already running high, an aftershock on Thursday, leaving villages on edge, telling CNN they, quote, "have a lot of fear 
 
 still in their hearts". We will take you live to Morocco later on in the hour to see how relief efforts there are shaping up -- are unfolding. 
 
I want to turn now to Libya where the death toll has skyrocketed to 8000 after Storm Daniel hit the northeastern part of the country, that is 
 
 according to Doctors Without Borders. Another 10,000 people at this point are still missing. A giant seven-meter wave struck the city of Derna, 
 
 washing entire communities out to sea. That new assessment from the international committee of the Red Cross which calls Libya's catastrophic 
 
 flooding violent and brutal. The damage is caused by a Mediterranean storm that hit over the weekend destroying two dams. You can actually see the 
 
 vast destruction, roads submerged in water. 
 
In these pictures on your screen, the head of the U.N. Meteorological Organization says the massive loss of life could have been prevented if 
 
 proper emergency management systems had been in place. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PETTERI TAALAS, SECRETARY-GENERAL, WORLD METEOROLOGICAL ORGANIZATION: Yeah, so -- so, that's a conclusion, that if they would been normally operating 
 
 meteorological service, they could have issued the warnings and also the emergency management would have been able to carry out evacuation of the 
 
 people and we could have avoided most of the human casualties. Of course, we cannot fully avoid economic losses but we could have minimized those 
 
 losses by having proper services in place. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: CNN's International Correspondent Ben Wedeman is tracking this story for us from Rome. So, Ben, just this idea of the death did not need to be 
 
 this high, the idea that if there were warning systems in place that many, many thousands of lives could have been spared. That is a hard pill to 
 
 swallow here. Just walk us through what people are saying. 
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it certainly is a harsh judgment on Libya but let's keep in mind that 2011 saw the armed 
 
 uprising against Muammar Gaddafi and soon there afterwards, eastern Libya and western Libya went to war. And even though this is a country of six 
 
 million people floating on a sea of oil, it could otherwise be quite prosperous. 
 
It has become a cockpit for regional rivalries, as well. So, things like basic services that one might take for granted in some places, like the 
 
 weather service, simply aren't functioning the way they should. They've been neglected in favor of obviously, weaponry and military matters. 
 
Also, for instance, there was an academic study conducted by somebody in Libya about the state of the two dams that were upriver from Derna and the 
 
 study made clear the dams needed to be maintained better but they weren't because of the situation, and for instance land management around it, 
 
 around it, the dams was poor. In other words, you basically had sand that doesn't absorb the water.
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
The water just rushes into the body of the dry riverbed and it just causes this wall, seven meters, we're told, by the ICRC, of water to rush through 
 
 Derna. So clearly, there is an element of human folly in this catastrophe. Having said that things this is the storm, the strongest the sort of storm 
 
 Libya has seen in recorded history and therefore perhaps, and of course this is all 2020 hindsight, the Libyan authorities even they had prepared, 
 
 they might not have been able to deal with it. 
 
They did, for instance, urge people before Storm Daniel arrived to exercise caution and a curfew was imposed. But beyond that there was no evacuation 
 
 order issued, there were no extraordinary measures taken considering the gravity and the magnitude of the storm that eventually hit. Zain? 
 
ASHER: Yeah, I mean it's just -- it's so sad to think that many of those lives could have been saved but, you know, we talk about the number of 
 
 people who were killed here but you also have to think about the psychological impact for the people who ended up surviving. So much that 
 
 they have to deal with, mentally. All right. Ben Wedeman, live for us there. Thank you so much. 
 
All right, Ukraine seems to be ramping military strikes in the south in Russian annexed Crimea. It claims to have destroyed a Russian air defense 
 
 system there overnight. This, as Russia says its air defenses shot down 11 Ukrainian drones over Crimea earlier today.
 
And in the east, Ukraine says more than 2000 people have been evacuated from the Kupyansk district. Officials say the situation on the frontlines 
 
 there remains difficult and Russia could intensify its assault operations in that region. 
 
All right, Kim Jong Un's whirlwind visit to Russia is taking him across Russia's far east. The North Korean Leader and President Vladimir Putin met 
 
 for five hours, Wednesday, apparently to discuss expanded military cooperation. That's raising concerns in the west. Japan says any arms deal 
 
 could be a violation of U.N. Security Council resolutions while South Korean officials suggest North Korean weapons are already in use by Russia 
 
 in Ukraine.
 
We've also learned Mr. Putin accepted an invitation to visit Pyongyang and the two leaders exchanged firearms as gifts. Paula Hancocks has more here 
 
 on this particular visit and how it's been perceived by another North Korean ally, China. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS (voice-over): It is Kim Jong Un's first known trip outside of north Korea in more than four years. Not to China, the country that's 
 
 propped his country up for decades, but Russia historically north Korea's second closest ally. 
 
ANDREI LANKOV, PROFESSOR, KOOKMIN UNIVERSITY: He is basically hedging against possible change in Chinese position. China might make a deal behind 
 
 his back with Americans. China might get in a serious economic trouble. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Beijing has said the Putin-Kim meeting is a matter for those two countries, but in recent years, has made a clear move towards 
 
 Russia as relations with the United States worsen. Xi Jinping has met Vladimir Putin 40 times in ten years. That's according to U.S. think tanks 
 
 CSIS in bilateral and multi-lateral settings. The Kremlin says another meeting is upcoming. 
 
While China is not believed to have provided arms to Russia, an unclassified report by U.S. Intelligence says it has given technology that 
 
 is helping Moscow in its war on Ukraine. XI's no-show at the recent G-20 in India also points to his diplomatic priorities. 
 
DAVID SANGER, CNN POLITICAL AND NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: It's actually gone beyond just this meeting. The meeting that China held of the BRIC 
 
 nations bringing in Iran and other countries was an effort to show that China could organize an alternative block to the west and of course Russia 
 
 is part of that. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): South Korean intelligence assesses the idea of bilateral drills between Russia and North Korea was pitched by Russian 
 
 Defense Minister Shoigu when he was in Pyongyang in July. Interaction Pyongyang is not generally party to but could learn a lot from. Military 
 
 cooperation which experts believe could then include China.
 
LANKOV: I think it's possible and yet highly unlikely, because it will be seen as a kind of symmetric answer to the recent joint military exercises 
 
 near the Korean peninsula by the Americans, Japanese and South Koreans. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: And Paula Hancocks joins us live from Seoul. So, Paula, your piece there just gave us the perspective in just in terms of what China is 
 
 reading into all of this. But just in terms of Seoul, just explain to us how much concern there is in Seoul about this sort of growing military 
 
 cooperation between Kim Jong Un and Vladimir Putin? 
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
HANCOCKS: Well, they are certainly watching it very closely, Zain. We've heard from the unification minister just today that they had deep concerns 
 
 about pursuing some kind of military deal. But the fact is we don't know exactly what if any deal was done at this point. There were no press 
 
 conferences, no communique, no joint statement from these two leaders, so it is for South Korea, for Tokyo and also for Washington to try and guess 
 
 what exactly was decided here. 
 
We have heard from the new Japanese foreign minister, as well. She was saying that any deal could violate U.N. Security Council resolutions. But 
 
 then, of course, that may be a moot point considering it's not likely that Russia, or even China in fact, is going to be signing on to any fresh U.N. 
 
 Security Council resolutions or any kind of sanctions against North Korea. 
 
So, there is concern definitely in Seoul. They have been urging North Korea not to do a deal with Russia, not to enter into any kind of military deal. 
 
 But this is what we've been hearing, not just in Seoul and in Tokyo, but also in Washington, which really proves the point that it's very difficult 
 
 to see how these countries can try and deter Russia and North Korea. If they are determined to do some kind of military deal, which they do appear 
 
 to be determined to do, then it is very difficult to see how that can be stopped. 
 
We've already heard that the Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will be heading to Pyongyang in October, presumably laying the groundwork for a 
 
 Vladimir Putin visit to Pyongyang, as he has been invited and has accepted, we understand, from both sides. And that would be a very big deal. 
 
It's been 23 years since a Russian president went to Pyongyang, and that Russian president back in the year 2000 was Vladimir Putin meeting the late 
 
 father of Kim Jong Un, Kim Jong-il. So, it is obviously a concern here in the region, but there is definitely a question as to what more can be done 
 
 to try and deter something that Russia and North Korea seem determined to do. Zain.
 
ASHER: All right, Paula Hancocks, live for us there. Thank you so much. All right. coming up. Different places, different dates, but a very similar 
 
 idea. Brazil begins the legal reckoning after the attempted insurrection. There, you'll remember what happened in January last year. That story in 
 
 just a moment. And from the mean streets, the top of the culinary world. You'll meet one of the most decorated chefs and learn the secrets to his 
 
 success. Coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: A major trial has begun for four men accused of trying to overturn an election by storming government buildings and taking part in a massive 
 
 riot. But it's not the political violence you're probably thinking of. We're talking about the attempted insurrection in Brazil, not in the United 
 
 States. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: How could you forget these images? Thousands of supporters on January 8 -- thousands of supporters of Brazil's former president Jair 
 
 Bolsonaro stormed the Presidential Palace, Supreme Court and Congress on January 8 outraged over his defeat in the October election. 
 
Close to 2000 people were arrested. The four men on trial say they were there to take part in a peaceful protest. That is their excuse. But they 
 
 are also accused of burning public property, attempting a coup and violently trying to overthrow democracy. 
 
Ironically, the trial began in the very same Supreme Court building that was vandalized by protesters on that day. We got word just a short time ago 
 
 that the Supreme Court has already found the first of the defendants guilty on five charges and sentenced him to 17 years in prison. 
 
Joining me now to talk about the significance of these events is Brian Winter. He's the Editor-in-Chief of "America's Quarterly". Brian, thank you 
 
 so much for being with us. I mean, it's not just about the people who sort of smashed into government buildings and broke things and stormed 
 
 government buildings in Brazil. It's also about the financial backers, the people who are in charge of organizing this particular insurrection. Where 
 
 are we on that? 
 
BRIAN WINTER, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, AMERICA'S QUARTERLY: Well, I think the Brazilian Supreme Court and the Brazilian political class at large is 
 
 trying to very clearly send this message, "never again", trying to show with these quick trials against these people who participated that if you 
 
 go into government buildings, multiple government buildings, do something that in some ways was even worse than what happened in the January 6, 2021 
 
 riots in the United States just because of the scale, that this won't be tolerated, it will be punished. 
 
And now, as you know, the quest is on to find not just the people who went into the buildings, but the people who paid for them to be there. Those 
 
 investigations continue. It hasn't advanced quite as much as these other trials have so far. 
 
ASHER: I mean, let's think about what was going on that day. Bolsonaro himself, you know, after losing the election, was in the United States. He 
 
 wasn't in Brazil at the time. But what about the top man himself? Because there have been investigations as to whether or not Jair Bolsonaro was 
 
 possibly involved in this particular insurrection. What more do we know on that front? 
 
WINTER: So, there is no public evidence that former President Bolsonaro was personally directing this. And therefore, these trials have not yet touched 
 
 on him directly. But Bolsonaro has other legal issues, and he has already been forbidden by the courts from running in the next presidential election 
 
 set for 2026 for spreading fake news about Brazil's electronic voting system in 2022. 
 
So, at least in theory, if that holds, he's out. He may also face prison time for this scandal in which he allegedly ordered aides to sell jewelry 
 
 that had been gifted to him by the Saudi Arabian government. So, he has some other legal issues that he's going to be dealing with, I think, for 
 
 the next months and years.
 
ASHER: I mean, I find that so interesting because, you know, we talk about the sort of superficial comparisons between January 6th and January 8th in 
 
 Brazil. But when you think about the fact that because Jair Bolsonaro intimated this idea that the voting systems were rigged, that you couldn't 
 
 trust the voting systems, that he's now been barred from running in the next election, that is very different from what's happening here in the 
 
 United States.
 
I do want to talk about the division, the level of division in Brazil, because even this -- I remember talking about this on air leading up to the 
 
 election, there was just so much division between the supporters of Lula and of course the supporters of Bolsonaro, not to mention that division was 
 
 worsened by Bolsonaro's rhetoric itself. Where are we on how divided the country still is? 
 
WINTER: So, believe it or not, things have gotten a little better. I think in part because a lot of Brazilians are just tired of politics. They're 
 
 tired of the division. When I was last there in August, so very recently, the feeling had definitely changed. 
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
They're tired of the division. When I was last there in August, so very recently, there was, the feeling had definitely changed. And people who I 
 
 spoke to in politics and business and everyday people confirmed this. And I think it's -- there's a couple of reasons. One of them is these corruption 
 
 scandals involving Bolsonaro have really left the conservative movement, his supporters shocked. 
 
And in some ways, I think there's a level of, they're just very disappointed in Bolsonaro because even if you don't buy into the 
 
 allegations that he spread fake news about the election, these allegations about him essentially trying to hock this jewelry that didn't belong to him 
 
 and pocket the money, it's very embarrassing. 
 
The other thing that's happened, you know, there's nothing like an economic turnaround, and Brazil's economy might grow three percent this year. And 
 
 that would be a good number for them. It's a country that has been stagnant, economically speaking, for about 10 years now. And so, three 
 
 percent growth feels pretty good, motivated in part by a good harvest. 
 
And so, yeah, I just didn't see the same polarization and the same degree of mobilization. I think these trials have played a role by reminding 
 
 people very quickly. You know, they didn't wait long, they did this, you know, with considerable, some say abnormal, speed. And I think society has 
 
 been watching and maybe that's convinced people that they should turn to something else. 
 
ASHER: One of the things I thought was just fascinating and quite sad really about what happened on January 8th was that it was a wake-up call 
 
 because, you know, we saw a number of coups in Brazil in the 20th century, but it really had this reputation of just being a stable democracy and a 
 
 place, the last place I think in Latin America where you would expect something like this, an attempted insurrection. But obviously they were 
 
 inspired by what happened in the United States. Brian Winter, we have to leave it there. Thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
WINTER: Thank you. 
 
ASHER: All right, still to come, the dire situation in the Libyan city of Derna, decimated by -- speaking to a U.N. coordinator on the ground in 
 
 Libya. That story next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: Hello and welcome back to ONE WORLD. Let's catch up on the headlines. Nigeria is slowly restoring electricity after a power grid 
 
 collapsed, causing a nationwide blackout. Officials say a fire caused an explosion on a major transmission line. 
 
Nigerians are certainly used to dealing with blackouts. The power grid collapsed at least four times last year. President Tinubu has promised to 
 
 improve supply by allowing state governments to build their own power plants. 
 
A Fulton County Georgia judge has separated Donald Trump and 16 of his co- defendants from two other defendants who are seeking a speedy trial. Kenneth Chesebro and Sidney Powell are scheduled to go on trial in October. 
 
 The judge has not set a date yet for Trump and the others accused to stay on trial, but it is not expected to start at least until December. 
 
Guatemala's president-elect says that he's suspending the presidential transition process after government agents raided electoral facilities and 
 
 opened ballot boxes. President-elect Bernardo Arevalo says the investigation into his victory is a coup attempt and an abuse of authority. 
 
I do want to go back to the devastating earthquake that shook Morocco. The death toll is nearly 3000, with more than 5000 injured from Friday's 
 
 earthquake. Help is slowly making its way to survivors in Morocco's hard- to-reach mountain areas. The U.S. Agency for International Development has promised an initial $1 million in humanitarian support and has sent an 
 
 assessment team. 
 
Joining us live now from Morocco is Nada Bashir on the ground for us. I think that one of the difficult things for people to understand is why 
 
 Morocco has been reluctant to accept help from a large number of countries. Obviously, several countries have reached out to Morocco offering 
 
 assistance, but it's only accepted help from a limited number. Just -- can you explain to our audience why that is, Nada?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, look, it is unclear. There has been some questions around the, perhaps, political influence behind this decision-
 
 making process. Of course, there was some delay in getting those international teams into Morocco. And of course, there's no clear answer, 
 
 clear suggestion from the government. 
 
We have heard from aid workers on the ground who have told us that in a situation like this, where many of the hardest hit areas are so remote, it 
 
 actually can be a hindrance to have many international teams coming in without enough coordination in fact, we've seen that just today. 
 
It has taken us hours to make it to this remote village in the mountains where we are trying to get to another area that has been devastated by the 
 
 quake. And that is because many of these roads have sustained immense damage, rocks, boulders falling on. They've only just cleared parts of the 
 
 road leading up to this village. 
 
So, this has proven difficult for aid workers, but we are beginning to see those international teams coming in and they are coordinating, working on 
 
 the ground with local Moroccan teams. Take a look. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR: Sheltering from the sweltering September heat, survivors of Morocco's earthquake spent another day coming to terms with the tragedy 
 
 that has befallen this shaken community. Temporary shelters for those left homeless by the earthquake have been set up across this region.
 
Many of the tents that you can see here have been supplied either by the Moroccan government or by local organizations and charities. But the 
 
 Moroccan government has also requested assistance from members of the international community and we've seen these international teams on the 
 
 ground providing support not only on the search and rescue front but also with the humanitarian relief effort. 
 
ROBERT NORMAN, COMMAND SUPPORT OFFICER, U.K. INTERNATIONAL SEARCH AND RESCUE: The immediate priorities for our team is always saving life. 
 
 Following on from that where we can help medical assistants identify humanitarian needs so that even when that rescue phase this close, we've 
 
 provided all the information we can to help humanitarian relief that will follow us.
 
BASHIR (voice-over):  Across the quake zone here in Morocco there has also been an outpouring of support from the local community, with donations of 
 
 food, water and medication.
 <br>[12:30:00]
 
But volunteers here tell us they still need more tents and, crucially, long-term support with the rebuild efforts. The government says the 
 
 reconstruction of homes lost in the disaster is a priority. But for so many impacted families, there is no telling how long it will be before they have 
 
 a real home to return to. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BASHIR (on-camera): And look, Zain, we have seen those rescue teams on the ground. We know, of course, that Morocco has accepted assistance from the 
 
 likes of the United Kingdom, Spain, Qatar, and others. But of course, we have seen smaller countries taking part, as well. We have seen smaller 
 
 efforts, rather, in this relief response effort from other nations. 
 
Many people have taken it upon themselves to travel into Morocco to provide donations. We have seen a team here arriving just providing food, blankets, 
 
 water, but also toys and other coloring books for young children who have, of course, been impacted and left homeless. But what we have been hearing 
 
 from these aid workers on the ground is, while these donations are of the utmost help, and while they will still need these donations for weeks, it's 
 
 got months to come. 
 
But their real question is, is how is the government going to respond when it comes to relocating those displaced by the earthquake, to compensating 
 
 those who have lost their homes, who have lost absolutely everything? Zain.
 
ASHER: All right, Nada Bashir, live was there. Thank you. A Libyan city devastated by catastrophic flooding is making a grim appeal for help. A 
 
 human rights activist tells state media that Derna is making an urgent plea for more grave diggers and volunteers to help it collect and bury bodies. 
 
 Drone footage shows huge swaths of Derna literally washed away after two dams burst over the weekend during torrential rainfall. 
 
It is one of the deadliest floods on record in North Africa. Doctors Without Borders says a staggering 8000 people are now dead and some 10,000 
 
 people are still missing. So, of course, that 8000 figure will likely rise. Traumatized residents say when the floods came, it felt like a nightmare. I 
 
 want you to listen to this man from the city of Derna. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): My neighbors were screaming and asking for help. I went down to help them and I saw one of my neighbors dead and being 
 
 taken by the flood. I took the kids and went back up again. The building and the building fence were destroyed. We belong to God and to Him we 
 
 return. We belong to God. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Time now for The Exchange. Georgette Gannon joins us live now from Tripoli. She's a U.N. Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Libya. 
 
 Georgette, thank you so much for being with us. I mean, when you hear numbers like that, 8000 people dead, I mean, it's just so hard to 
 
 comprehend those types of figures. And the saddest part, as I mentioned, is that number will, of course, likely rise. 
 
And when you think about what people who have experienced this are dealing with, I mean, you know, children who have lost family members, who have 
 
 lost parents, children who have been displaced, people who were already displaced from the violence in Libya now being displaced again because of 
 
 this. Just give us a sense of what people on the ground are dealing with. 
 
GEORGETTE GAGNON, U.N. RESIDENT AND HUMANITARIAN COORDINATOR IN LIBYA: Well, there is no doubt this is a huge, immense tragedy for the country, 
 
 for the Libyan people, and particularly for people in the area. And the whole country has really come together at the community, at the local 
 
 level, to take care of people and address the situation that they're in. 
 
Right now, the main focus of the Libyan authorities and also the internationals and the U.N. is search and rescue and is dealing with the 
 
 situation there as was described and also trying to prevent any sort of further crisis by not addressing the situation as it is at the moment. A 
 
 lot of food aid, water, health in particular is now going into the area, and more is to come. International partners have stepped up to provide the 
 
 search and rescue teams, which are in Derna at the moment. 
 
ASHER: So, the people, you know, watching this show in other countries who look at these images and just say, you know, what do I do to help? I mean, 
 
 there's -- and who feel helpless, I should say, in terms of really their own power to do anything to help the people on the ground. What do you say 
 
 to that? And how can we all just rally together to help the people of Derna right now? 
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
GAGNON: Most important thing is to keep this situation on the radar screen, keep it front and center. The U.N. has launched an appeal, of course, for 
 
 funding, for support, as have a number of the agencies. So, of course, providing funding is really important. 
 
We're looking at the great needs in the area of psychosocial support for people and families who have been traumatized by this event, who have lost 
 
 their whole families. So, the needs are immense. We know what the needs are. They are out there and we would ask people to look at that and respond 
 
 and to really not forget the people of Derna at the real moment of need. 
 
ASHER: You know, some of the images, I mean, I know you can't see the screen right now, but we're seeing, we're seeing entire villages washed 
 
 away. We're seeing roads just completely flooded, you know, just people who have experienced immense loss. I
 
I'm wondering, yes, of course, I understand the priority right now is search and rescue. That's important. But after that, there's going to be a 
 
 phase where rebuilding is priority. I don't even know how a place like Derna begins to rebuild after something like this. Just explain that 
 
 process to us.
 
GAGNON: Yes, that certainly is one of the next steps. And many of the international partners and the Libyans themselves have asked for now 
 
 assessment of the damages of what needs to be done to certainly rebuild the structures and rebuild the city. I was actually in Derna in March and we 
 
 were discussing with people there their new municipal plan. 
 
So, for us, a next step would really be to take forward that municipal plan when it's possible. There's will and with enough support, I think the 
 
 community is certainly resilient enough to really take on rebuilding. But immense support is needed to do that. Technical support, engineering 
 
 support, political support, economic support. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, these floods would be absolutely devastating for a stable country, you know, let alone a place like Libya where, it's just the 
 
 political situation is complicated by the fact that there's two rival governments and there is this sort of ever-present threat of violence at 
 
 times. In addition to that, as I mentioned, lots of people have been already displaced in the country because of that violence. 
 
You know, just in terms of where the country goes from here, a lot of people have talked about this idea that the death toll would not have been 
 
 this high if there were warning systems in place, for example, if there weren't rival government factions warring with each other. Just explain 
 
 that to us because, obviously, there are going to be questions asked, there is going to be a period of soul-searching just in terms of what the country 
 
 can learn from this situation and how it changes the way it operates going forward. 
 
GAGNON: Yeah, that is very important to use this as a way to take forward rebuilding in a, you know, in a much more coherent way. But the focus now 
 
 really needs to be on recovery, rebuilding. Having people get their lives and their livelihoods back. And so, that's, that's what the focus is on at 
 
 this point. 
 
And as part of that, of course, there will be discussions about what should have been done. But our focus now and the focus of Libyans, as we 
 
 understand it, is really to do the immediate work of relief, getting relief in there, and then recovery and rebuilding. 
 
ASHER: That's understandable. Georgette Gagnon, thank you so much for being with us. 
 
GAGNON: Thank you. 
 
ASHER: And you just heard, Georgette, just talking about just how desperately the people of Libya are in need of serious help right now. If 
 
 you feel so moved to help, just go to cnn.com/impact. You can find a whole host of ways you can help the situation on the ground there in a place like 
 
 Darna. We'll be right back with more. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
[12:40:00
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: All right. Here's a scary thought. Earth may soon no longer be safe for human life. That is the warning from a new report by a group of 
 
 scientists in eight different countries. About a decade ago, they outlined nine boundaries that should not be crossed for our planet to remain stable 
 
 and livable. Today's report says that we actually have already crossed six of those boundaries. 
 
Let's get right to CNN Chief Climate Correspondent Bill Weir. The co-author of this report, Bill, Katherine Richardson, said that no human has ever 
 
 experienced the conditions we are going through right now that's not exactly surprising considering the summer we experienced with all the 
 
 extreme weather, but it really does make you wonder what is it going to take to get through to us. 
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, absolutely, Zain. And so many of these things that they studied, these sort of nine dials on our 
 
 spaceship Earth, you know, sort of the life support systems, you don't notice as much land use, fresh water sources, you know, aerosols in the 
 
 atmosphere. But all of these seem to be going in the wrong direction. 
 
If you look at the graphic, it's a little bit hard to interpret just from this look, but the center of that there, the circle in the middle, is the 
 
 safe space. Earth, that's habitable for human life and each of those sort of high chart triangles coming off that expands is how far we've overshot 
 
 the space, the safe one there. 
 
The biosphere integrity, that long bar up on about the 11 o'clock spot on the clock there, that's a result of breakdown with the biodiversity, with 
 
 insects, birds, of species facing extinction, as well. Land use changes are in the bad spot. Fresh water changes are there. Biochemical reactions are 
 
 the bad spots there. We got novel entities, that's viruses and whatnot. And then climate change at 12 o'clock at the top is driving so much of this. 
 
So, if we break it down into more of a list, you can see the six ones that were beyond the safe levels, biosphere integrity, climate changes we talked 
 
 about, those biogeochemical flows there as well, where within the safe spot, but moving in the wrong direction when it comes to -- I can show you 
 
 the next graphic there, when it comes to acidification of the oceans. 
 
We're sort of still in a safe spot, but heading in the wrong direction. Atmospheric aerosol loading, even microplastics sort of in space as 
 
 satellites disintegrate and come back. All those rocket launches are leaving a fog above us. And stratospheric ozone depletion, which is the one 
 
 bright spot on this list, Zain. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, I mean, and when you think about, you know, the climate change element of all this, if we don't stop really, you know, super high levels 
 
 of fossil fuel consumption, that's the direct, the climate change element of all this.
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
If we don't stop really, you know, super high levels of fossil fuel consumption, that's the direction we're going on. Bill Weir, have to leave 
 
 it there. Thank you so much. 
 
WEIR: You bet. 
 
ASHER: We'll be right back with more. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: I want to turn back to Libya now where 8000 people have died after storm Daniel hit the northeast and part of the country. That is according 
 
 to Doctors Without Borders. We know that another 10,000 at this point are still missing. 
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh is on the ground for us. She joins us on the phone. Jomana, I know you just landed in Libya. I understand that you're on your 
 
 way to Derna. But just walk us through what you're seeing -- what you're seeing on the ground. 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Zain, I hope you can bear with us. Lines of communication have been very, very terribly impacted by the -- 
 
 issue. So many students have been trying to reach the level of contact family members and it's --
 
ASHER: Okay, Jomana, we're having trouble hearing you. I mean, I know you mentioned that there probably would be audio issues because you just got 
 
 there on the ground and said that the lines of communication are spotty, but Jomana Karadsheh, our correspondent, just landed in Libya. She's on her 
 
 way to Derna. 
 
She's going to, hopefully, be able to give us live reporting on CNN throughout the day, but we will have much more on this devastating story. 
 
 Eight thousand people confirmed dead in Libya, another 10,000 missing. We will stay on this story, of course. 
 
The cruise ship that ran aground off Greenland's eastern coast is finally free. According to the ship's owner, the Ocean Explorer was successfully 
 
 unstuck using the ship's own power and a pull from a research vessel. The company goes on to say it happened without any injuries and a breach of the 
 
 hull or harm to the environment. Before the ship was freed, an Australian passenger joked about the real dangers he faced. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNNOWN: some point is the biggest worry is going to be that you're going to run out of alcohol. 
 
UNKNOWN: That is the biggest concern I have. However, I had swimming lessons before I came and I'm a good swimmer. So, look out, I could be 
 
 swimming back to Iceland.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[12:50:00]
 
ASHER: That's what matters. The cruise ship owner says passengers will be taken to a port where they can then fly home. And we're new details about 
 
 the dramatic capture of a convicted murderer in Pennsylvania nearly two weeks after he escaped prison. 
 
According to law enforcement officials, Danelo Cavalcante told police he was planning to hijack a car to flee to Canada. He also said search teams 
 
 came within feet of him on at least three occasions as he hid in dense brush after his prison break. CNN's Danny Freeman has more on Wednesday 
 
 morning's capture. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: 
 
UNKNOWN: The subject is in custody. 
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: After 14 days, multiple search perimeters and hundreds of law enforcement officers combing woods, farms, and creeks, 
 
 escaped inmate Danelo Cavalcante is finally caught. 
 
GEORGE BIVENS, LIEUTENANT COLONEL, PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE: It is a true pleasure to stand here this morning and talk to all of you about bringing 
 
 this manhunt to a successful conclusion. 
 
FREEMAN: The convicted murderer who crab-walked out of a Chester County prison, seen from above by CNN affiliate CBS News Philadelphia, in cuffs, 
 
 disheveled and bloody. 
 
JOSH SHAPIRO, PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNOR: He was apprehended this morning with no shots fired. The dramatic capture set in motion just after midnight. 
 
 Police got a call about a burglary alarm toward the eastern edge of the law enforcement perimeter set up in northern Chester County. Tactical teams 
 
 rushed to the area, but couldn't find anything until support arrived from above. 
 
BIVENS: There was an aircraft overhead utilizing FLIR technology and close to 1 A.M. picked up a heat signal that they began to track. 
 
FREEMAN: But then came a storm.
 
BIVENS: We had a weather system that also came in and we had lightning that was flashing all around and it caused the aircraft to have to depart the 
 
 area. 
 
FREEMAN: But police said the tactical teams stayed on the ground and secured the area. Then shortly after 8 A.M., the storm gone, the team moved 
 
 in on this wooded area behind a local business. 
 
BIVENS: They were able to move in very quietly. They had the element of surprise. Cavalcante did not realize he was surrounded until that had 
 
 occurred. That did not stop him from trying to escape. 
 
FREEMAN: Defiant to the end, Cavalcante made one last effort to crawl away, but a canine unit was released and the dog stopped him. 
 
BIVENS: He continued to resist, but was forcibly taken into custody. No one was injured as a result of that. He did sustain a minor bite wound. Doug 
 
 Brewer works right up against the wooded area where Cavalcante was found. 
 
DOUG BREWER, WORKS UP AGAINST THE WOODED AREA WHERE CAVALCANTE WAS FOUND: Well, it was just kind of nice to know that they got him and you know, we 
 
 can go back to life, you know. Get back to doing our thing normally. 
 
FREEMAN: And relief felt by the family of Deborah Brandow, the woman, Cavalcante, brutally stabbed in front of her two young children. 
 
DEB RYAN, CHESTER COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY: One of the first calls we made upon learning about this capture was to the Brandow family, who as you can 
 
 imagine, had been living in a complete nightmare. They can now finally sleep again. 
 
FREEMAN: Cavalcante had his preliminary arraignment on Wednesday morning. He was charged with felony escape. He's now back behind bars, this time in 
 
 a state prison. Danny Freeman, CNN. Chester County, Pennsylvania. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Players from Spain's top women's football teams have called off their strike. The players were striking over minimum pay. The five players 
 
 unions, which include players from Spain's World Cup women's team and Liga F, agreed to raise the minimum yearly salary from 23,000 euros to 25,000 
 
 euros. 
 
And finally, lawmakers in Mexico were left wondering whether we are not alone after an unusual congressional hearing. The politicians viewed two 
 
 alleged non-human bodies on Tuesday, each with elongated heads and only three fingers on each hand. The researchers told Congress the bodies were 
 
 recovered in Peru in 2017, but supposedly are centuries old. They say that mummy's DNA does not match human beings. The event was Mexico's first 
 
 public hearing on Unidentified Anomalous Phenomena or UAPs. 
 
And after three years, a stolen Van Gogh painting has been returned, although with some new scars. The painting called "Spring Garden" was on 
 
 loan to a small museum near Amsterdam when thieves grabbed it during a COVID lockdown. 
 
The director of the museum that owns the painting says it was scratched, but can be restored. The painting is worth nearly $6.5 million dollars. It 
 
 was returned on Monday to Arthur Brand, a detective known as the "Indiana Jones" of the art world and it came in a blue IKEA bag -- of all places. 
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
And if you ever wanted to own a Picasso masterpiece and you have, I don't know, $100 million to spare, now might be your chance. Sotheby's in New 
 
 York is putting this 1932 oil painting up for auction in November. Considered one of Picasso's finest, it depicts Marie Therese Walter, the 
 
 painter's 17-year-old mistress and muse wearing a watch. And $100 million is actually a modest estimate. Sotheby's believes it could fetch more than 
 
 $120 million. So, in case you have that kind of money lying around, there you go. 
 
All right, thank you so much for watching ONE WORLD. I'm Zain Asher. Amanpour is up next. You're watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END