Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Former Italian P.M. Silvio Berlusconi Dies At 86; Trump Faces 37 Felony Counts In Documents Case; Another U.S. Citizen Detained In Russia. Aired 10-10:45a ET

Aired June 12, 2023 - 10:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:36]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: I'm Becky Anderson live from Abu Dhabi where the time is 6:00 in the evening. This is CONNECT THE WORLD. You 
 
 are more than welcome. Coming up this hour former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi dies at the age of 86.
 
Ukraine claims new battlefield gains amid reports of fierce clashes in the south and east. 
 
President Donald Trump prepares to face federal charges in Florida.
 
And it's party time in Manchester as city fans get set to celebrate their treble winning team.
 
We begin by remembering a complicated life that dominated Italian politics and culture for years. Silvio Berlusconi, a flamboyant billionaire and 
 
 former prime minister has died at the age of 86. Long regarded as Italy's most colorful public figure, the media mogul and politician served as the 
 
 country's leader longer than anyone since fascist dictator Benito Mussolini. Allies remember him as a fighter. Critics, well, not so much.
 
Berlusconi was also Italy's most prosecuted prime minister. We're live in Rome with CNN's Ben Wedeman. As I've suggested, this is a man who will be 
 
 remembered in different ways depending on what your politics are at the end of the day. Ben?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTENATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. That's certainly the case, Becky, this is a man though I think all Italians will agree was a 
 
 larger-than-life figure for well over two decades. Not only in Italian politics, but in Italian business and the media, as well. This is a man who 
 
 back in 1980 set up the first national television channel that was private to compete with a rather staid and dusty -- state-sponsored RAI 
 
 broadcaster.
 
And from there, he grew in influence and wealth to become one of the -- perhaps the richest man in Italy. And in 1994, riding on a wave of anger 
 
 with a bribery scandal was elected prime minister of Italy. This was a man who had no experience in public office and he came to office, saying I was 
 
 a success at business and I will be a success as a politician and managing the affairs of Italy.
 
But despite those high expectations, what we saw that even though he was the longest-serving prime minister in post-war Italy, he did nothing to 
 
 really improve the economy. In fact, after 20 years of his intense involvement in Italian politics, the economy had in fact shrunk. Italy's 
 
 debt had gone through the roof. And finally, when he was forced out, it was as a result of a historic financial economic crisis.
 
Nonetheless, Berlusconi was a man who sort of cut through the heavy rhetoric of Italian politicians and spoke to ordinary people. I attended 
 
 several of his speeches. And certainly you found yourself nodding in agreement with a lot of his critiques of the ponderous Italian bureaucracy 
 
 of the heavy burden of taxes that weighs on ordinary Italians. But in the end, his legislative achievements so to speak were more about protecting 
 
 his interests.
 
His personal interests, his business interests, but as I said he was somebody that not unlike President Trump really had an appeal to many 
 
 people on a populist level. I think Berlusconi was probably much more savvy than Trump was. But nonetheless, he's somebody that now is being mourned by 
 
 many Italians. Here, for instance, we have a statement from Giorgia Meloni, the current prime minister.
 
Somebody who was a political ally of Berlusconi, who describes him as one of the most influential men in the history of Italy. Perhaps not all 
 
 Italians would agree with that. But most Italians would say that for several -- for at least two decades, he was probably the most prominent man 
 
 in public life here in Italy. Becky?
 <br>[10:05:04]
 
ANDERSON: Ben Wedeman out of Rome for you today. Ben, thank you. Ben reporting on the death of Silvio Berlusconi, former Italian Prime Minister 
 
 dead at the age of 86.
 
Well, to the war in Ukraine now and the country's military claiming Russian forces are on the defensive, as its troops capture villages in the Donetsk 
 
 region in what could be the opening phase of this long-anticipated counteroffensive Ukraine reporting some two dozen battles in Donetsk and 
 
 Luhansk.
 
Meantime, water levels are receding in the Kherson region nearly a week after the destruction of a major dam on the frontlines, Evacuations there 
 
 continue. Fred Pleitgen connecting us from Zaporizhzhia. And just explain why where you are is so significant at this point in this conflict, Fred?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Hi there, Becky. This is -- a this is a region of Ukraine where a lot of those 
 
 offensive operations that the Ukrainians have been conducting over the past couple of days. And certainly, it seems as though today as well. That's 
 
 where they're taking place. That's where many people believe that this counteroffensive that so many have been talking about here and Ukraine 
 
 might already be unfolding.
 
Now, the Ukrainians over the weekend have hinted that that is the case in the form of the president of the country. However, there are others who are 
 
 saying that they are not going to talk about whether or not this is the real counteroffensive. Nevertheless, what we've definitely seen is a big 
 
 pickup in kinetic activity along the very long front line here in the Zaporizhzhia region but also a little further east in the Donetsk region as 
 
 well.
 
And here in the Zaporizhzhia region is also where the Ukrainians are saying that they are making some pretty significant gains. At least on one of the 
 
 front lines in -- on the battlefield where they say they've taken back several villages throughout the course of the weekend. And today, as well, 
 
 we've seen some videos emerge from official Ukrainian sources showing their troops going into some of these villages, raising the flag of Ukraine in 
 
 some of these villages and saying that they are continuing to push.
 
That push seems to be going in the southerly direction, obviously the Ukrainians trying to get to the Sea of Azov to cut off Russian forces. They 
 
 still are at a very early stage, but certainly believe that they are making some headway. At the same time, Becky, that is coming at an immense cost. 
 
 That also seems obvious as well. The Russians are saying that in many of the places where the Ukrainians have been trying to advance, they have 
 
 stopped those advances, destroying a lot of Ukrainian army -- armor and a lot of that armor being Western supplied arm.
 
This includes German-provided Leopard 2 main battle tanks, but also open- source intelligence shows some 16 Bradley infantry fighting vehicles supplied by the United States. That's a pretty good chunk of what the 
 
 Ukrainians got from the U.S. in the first place. So big battles going on along the front lines, especially in the region where I am right now, some 
 
 games by the Ukrainians but the Russians certainly also, you know, making a big deal out of the fact that they are destroying a lot of those Western 
 
 weapons, as those battles seem to be picking up while the -- as the Ukrainian say they are going to try and go as far as they can, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Frederik Pleitgen is on the ground for you in Ukraine. Well, next hour, former U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to depart New Jersey 
 
 and bought a plane for Florida ahead of his appearance in federal court tomorrow. It's the second time in just three months that he'll answer to 
 
 criminal charges. Trump is set to be arraigned on 37 felony counts related to his handling of classified documents after he left office.
 
He has denied any wrongdoing and over the weekend railed against the indictment, calling it a joke and a political hit job. Trump has said even 
 
 if convicted, he will not leave the 2024 presidential race. So, we've got a team covering this for you. Arlette Saenz has more from the White House. 
 
 First, so, CNN's Senior Crime and Justice Reporter Katelyn Polantz has the very latest on the case from Miami. Just fill us in on what we know at this 
 
 point.
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Well, Becky, we have this indictment. An incredibly detailed look at the accusations 
 
 against Donald Trump, the former president of the United States for willfully retaining, taking with him or having in his possession, 
 
 classified and national security records that he should not have had outside of the protection of the U.S. government.
 
Also, accusations of obstruction of justice against both him and a body man, a aide of his, Walt Nauta. Now though both of them are set to be in 
 
 federal court tomorrow. They've been summoned to appear before the judge where they WARREN: ill formally learn their charges and then get to enter a 
 
 plea. At this time, we fully expect them to say they are not guilty. That is quite typical for right now.
 
And Trump has even said he is going to be saying he is not guilty tomorrow. And so, that's what will happen in court. It could be a bit of a short 
 
 proceeding but Becky, over the next couple hours there's a lot of travel involved.
 <br>[10:10:05]
 
Right now, Donald Trump is up in New Jersey. So, he's got to get on a flight alongside Walt Nauta, his co-defendant. They'll fly down here to 
 
 Florida. They'll stay over at his resort, prepare for this first appearance tomorrow. And then they will head to court. Now, a big question that we're 
 
 going to be watching for, maybe not in this at first proceeding. But in the coming days exactly what happens with a schedule as this moves toward 
 
 trial.
 
Here's how Special Counsel Jack Smith said he was going to be approaching the case when he spoke publicly on Friday after the indictment was 
 
 unsealed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JACK SMITH, SPECIAL COUNSEL FOR THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE: Very important for me to note that the defendants in this case, must be 
 
 presumed innocent until proven guilty, beyond a reasonable doubt, in a court of law. To that end, my office will seek a speedy trial on this 
 
 matter, consistent with the public interest and the rights of the accused.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
POLANTZ: Speedy trial. So that's actually a legal term where the Justice Department is going to ask the court to put this on a pretty tight clock 
 
 about 70 days, more or less to get this to a trial. But there's a lot of things that the judge in this case might be able to do to control the 
 
 schedule. And also, there's classified documents involved. So that can draw things out a little bit longer as well. So, a lot of anticipation right now 
 
 in this case on where it will land at the same time as this campaign schedule as Donald Trump campaigns for the Republican nomination for 
 
 president in 2024. How close to the election will this trial be. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Absolutely. Arlette, what's the perspective where you are?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Becky, President Biden in the White House have really adopted this business-as-usual quiet 
 
 strategy when it comes to former President Donald Trump's indictment. We have yet to hear any substantive comments from President Biden relating to 
 
 this indictment. He simply had some no comments on Friday as he was travelling and was peppered by questions from reporters that day.
 
But it's very similar to the approach that Biden took when Trump was indicted back in April, back in New York State on state charges. You did 
 
 not hear very much from the president regarding that case. And advisors say that that is all deliberate. And part of the reason is because President 
 
 Biden does not want to give any further fuel to President Trump's claims that this is all part of a political witch hunt.
 
He doesn't want to get baited into answering questions or making any comments that then the President or his supporters might try to use against 
 
 this case. Additionally, President Biden has long held that there needs to be independence in the Justice Department and that a sitting president does 
 
 not need to be weighing in on legal matters. On Friday, he was asked whether he'd even spoken with Attorney General Merrick Garland after the 
 
 indictment was announced and the president said he hadn't spoken with him and has no intention of speaking with him. 
 
The last really substantive comments we heard from Biden relating to this matter was before the indictment broke. That very day, Thursday afternoon, 
 
 he was asked how Americans can trust the Justice Department to carry out this case and the President pointed out that he has never and never would 
 
 direct the Justice Department on what they should or should not do. So, for the time being the President really is trying to just go on with his 
 
 schedule.
 
Part of that today includes hosting the NATO Secretary General here at the White House where they'll talk about Ukraine, the Secretary General also 
 
 expected to be winding down his term soon, and they're waiting to see who might serve as his replacement. But this is all part of a very deliberate 
 
 strategy for the president, from his spokespeople all the way over to the campaign to just simply not engage in these questions relating to former 
 
 President Trump's indictment.
 
And they are very well aware that this will be in the headlines for the coming days. But for the White House, that strategy is just to keep quiet.
 
ANDERSON: To both of you, thank you. Well, in Sudan's capital it took just minutes for battles to flare up once again following Saturday ceasefire. 
 
 New fighting woke people in around Khartoum early on Sunday. Saudi Arabia had mediated the 24-hour truce along with the United States. Riyadh says 
 
 the two countries are deeply disappointed with the immediate resumption of intense violence.
 
The ceasefire to give people a chance to go outside and get food and other supplies. The army and arrival militia have been fighting since April. 
 
 Activists say, around 1800 people have been killed and over a million have been displaced.
 
Well, former Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon is declaring, "I'm innocent of all wrongdoing." She was arrested and released without charge 
 
 on Sunday in connection with a probe into the Scottish National Party's finances. That is the party that is she's affiliated with, of course.
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
Police are investigating funds specifically earmarked for a second independence referendum campaign.
 
Well, now on to the world of football where Manchester City have won their Treble of the Premier League, the F.A. Cup and as of Saturday, the 
 
 Champions League. The Sky Blues scored a one-nil victory in Istanbul against Inter Milan. Becoming only the second English team ever to achieve 
 
 the coveted treble after their rivals Manchester United. But eyes were not only pointed down at the pitch, but also up in the stands where UAE 
 
 President Mohammed bin Zayed is vice president, a man -- the City Club owner Mansour bin Zayed watched the match with the newly reelected, Turkish 
 
 president, Mr. Erdogan by their side.
 
Well, we will break down what was happening on the pitch and off it -- and discuss the atmosphere at least for one half of Manchester. CNN's Sports 
 
 Senior Analyst Darren Lewis joining us from where every Man City fan wants to be right now. That is the victory parade route in Manchester where the 
 
 team will be bringing the trophy home. Let's just talk about the atmosphere that you expect a little later on today.
 
DARREN LEWIS, CNN SPORTS SENIOR ANALYST: Well, Becky, we're listening. You and I were in Qatar for a wonderful party in the Middle East, what, five, 
 
 six months ago. There's a real party bubbling on here. And it's not going to be the five or six hours time either because I can tell you, it's 
 
 already starting to build here in Manchester City Centre. You can see the sky blue shirts behind me. Fans are pouring into the Centre.
 
They've even been asking us where the celebrations will be. Well, let me tell you, if I pan to my left, just behind that green barrier over there is 
 
 where a stage has been constructed. And the City fans will be able to toast their players and their head coach Pep Guardiola, all of whom will end 
 
 their open top bus parade there. There'll be music playing already. I don't want to sound too brings Bruce Springsteen.
 
There'll be dancing quite literally in the streets here because they've pulled it off. They have become only the eighth team to pull off the 
 
 continental treble. They were in a third tier of English football in 1999 when Manchester United did it. Now they are at the very top of European 
 
 football. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes. And arguably, one of if not Europe's best football team at this point. Listen, I mean the match we will forgive them for giving where 
 
 -- what they've achieved this year. It wasn't -- it wasn't a great spectacle. But for years Man City, as you rightly point out and watch their 
 
 neighbors Man United dominate the game. Times have changed. What do you expect from this team going forward?
 
LEWIS: Well, the obvious thing is to go along with the widely held view that they are going to dominate. That's right. You soak up all of the 
 
 atmosphere behind me. You can hear the klaxons going off. They'll be more of that while I'm talking to you. Let's just drink all of that in. But the 
 
 obvious and the widely held view is that City are going to dominate. But that doesn't take into account the fact that Liverpool with their American 
 
 ownership will have fresh investment this summer.
 
Newcastle with their Saudi ownership will have fresh investment too. Chelsea with their American ownership. They will recalibrate and they will 
 
 be stronger for having acquired the Argentine head coach Mauricio Pochettino. So, things will be tougher domestically. But Pep Guardiola has 
 
 put together a wonderful football team packed. Cramped are bursting with young talents who can really keep them at the top of the European game.
 
It will be hard to do only one team has ever retained the Champions League. But this City side so exciting, Becky, I think they'll have a lot of fun 
 
 finding out whether they can retain it or not.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. And there were viewing parties all over Abu Dhabi and indeed and in other cities across this country. Of course, this club is owned by 
 
 Sheikh Mansour who is the brother of the president part of the Al Nahyan family. They pumped an awful lot into not just this team but into the 
 
 franchise as a whole. This is City Football Club, that Man City a part of it this state. This is a wider project and we've heard so much in the past 
 
 week or so about the investment by this region both UAE and of course the Saudis in in global sport.
 
Where does -- where does that -- where does the family and the investment from Abu Dhabi sit within that -- within the wider story here?
 
LEWIS: Well, they have a wide portfolio of clubs as we know. The City Football Group.
 <br>[10:20:02]
 
They also invest quite heavily in the community which is a big part of why not just the guys who -- the fans who go to match days are celebrating 
 
 this, but it's a community they've really wanted to put a lot into the bigger picture. That said, I suppose those critics watching will say, why 
 
 don't you mention those charges? You're going to talk about the finance. The 115 charges against them relating to financial impropriety, which they 
 
 strenuously deny has to be said and all of that will be resolved, as we know in the courts.
 
But the fact is that within the City Football group portfolio, they are building. They want to develop not just here in England, but also in 
 
 Australia, and other parts of Europe as well. But this is the jewel in their crown. They had the highest profile manager in Europe. They've got 
 
 some of the highest caliber players in world football, not least, the super striker Erling Haaland who has scored 52 goals in his debut season and will 
 
 go on to become the next Mbappe, Messi, Ronaldo.
 
This is where it's at as far as the City Football Group is concerned. And this is where the party will start. And hopefully for them continue.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, absolutely. Good stuff. Thank you very much, indeed. As a youngster, I used to go to the old stadium, the old main road and watch 
 
 that team who were not great, the blue side of Manchester back in the day. I had to put up with a lot of -- a lot of competition and a lot more 
 
 success from the red side of Manchester. So it's great to see what's going on there today. And I'm sure there'll be some Man United fans who kind of 
 
 be celebrating the Manchester story, not many.
 
Still to come. The father of the children who survived a deadly plane crash in Colombia speaking out about their traumatic experience. We're live from 
 
 Bogota.
 
And another U.S. citizen detained in Russia. What he is being accused of and his reported response to those charges is just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Becky Anderson for you. In Colombia, four children who survived 40-gruelling days in the Amazon jungle 
 
 after their plane crashed are now recovering in a Bogota hospital. Doctors say they will be under medical supervision for the next two to three weeks. 
 
 The children's father spoke to the media on Sunday. He said his kids were able to survive because of their upbringing as indigenous people and their 
 
 connection with nature.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANUEL RANOQUE, FATHER OF RESCUED CHILDREN (through translator): We are indigenous people. I believe in the jungle which is our mother. And that's 
 
 why I've always kept the faith and would say that both the jungle and nature have never betrayed me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Let's bring in journalist Steffano Pozzebon in Bogota.
 <br>[10:25:03]
 
Does seem a remarkable story. A complicated one, though, as well, certainly reports, suggesting not everything that we first heard me may have been the 
 
 full extent of this story. What do we know at this point?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN REPORTER: Yes, Becky. We learned yesterday from the father, for example, that the kids were able to stay alive by eating some 
 
 seeds, some fruiter. We also know from Colombian officials said that they were carrying some cassava flour, some tapioca flour, which is called 
 
 Farina here in in South America. And that helped them to stay alive. Of course, there is a lot of questions still unanswered.
 
And because the main -- the only people that can answer them are these four young indigenous children. The youngest of them is only one-year-old who 
 
 are in recovery now. And there will be for the next two to three weeks in the hospital, just behind my back. And I think one point that it's worth 
 
 reminding the viewers and wondering everyone is about how difficult the Amazon is as a terrain.
 
This morning, I was able to speak with the Special Forces general, General Sanchez who was commanding the operation to try to bring these kids home. 
 
 Here's what he said about why it took so long for his man to find them and the difficulty of operating in the jungle. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEN. PEDRO SANCHEZ, COLOMBIAN AIR FORCE: We conclude with evidence that maybe they worked about 20 kilometers. We compared the evidence with the 
 
 tracks of our GPS. We say, oh, my goodness, we were very close to the kids, maybe about 100 feet. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
POZZEBON: Could you imagine it, Becky? 100 feet and not being able to see the four little ones. Could imagine what would have happened if they didn't 
 
 find them on Friday afternoon after 40 days of going through (INAUDIBLE) inch by inch of that vast area of the Amazon rainforest. It's just amazing 
 
 that they would have got out alive and it's just a good feeling to be here in front of the hospital and witness these as we speak. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes, absolutely. Apologies for the sound on Steffano's microphone there. But yes, I mean, it's a -- it's a, you know, not a miracle in this, 
 
 isn't it? Absolutely.
 
Well, the U.S. State Department says another American citizen has been detained in Russia. A court there says Travis Leake is being held on drug 
 
 charges. Its statement describes him as a former paratrooper and musician. He reportedly denies wrongdoing. His detention comes 10 weeks after Russia 
 
 arrested American journalists to Evan Gershkovich on spying charges which he denies.
 
CNN's state department producer Jennifer Hansler joins me now. Jennifer?
 
JENNIFER HANSLER, CNN STATE DEPARTMENT PRODUCER: Hi, Becky. Yes, that's exactly right. This court in Moscow has accused Travis Leake of drug 
 
 dealing or in their words, "engaging in the narcotics business through attracting young people." Travis has reportedly been living in Russia since 
 
 2010. And he told police according to reports that he did not know why he was being detained.
 
He did not know what he was being accused of. The State Department has confirmed his arrest. They said that officials from the U.S. Embassy in 
 
 Moscow were at his arraignment hearing on Saturday. It was at that hearing that Travis was told he will remain in custody until at least early August. 
 
 Now his mother spoke with our Camila Bernal yesterday and said she was very concerned about her son's wellbeing. Being there in that Russian prison.
 
She said the State Department had not reached out to her as of yesterday. A State Department spokesperson told us today that they have attempted to 
 
 reach out to Travis's family, as they do in any case where an American is detained abroad and they get permission to do so. Now it is very 
 
 interesting that Travis was arrested because he did speak with our Anthony Bourdain. The late Anthony Bourdain almost a decade ago.
 
He spoke out about the Russian government center, and he's talked about a specific incident that had happened with his band and an MTV show. Take 
 
 listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRAVIS LEAKE, DETAINED BY RUSSIA: This was a documentary series about musicians standing up and risking their lives in some cases.
 
ANTHONY BOURDAIN, CNN HOST: Right.
 
LEAKE: Stand up against government abuse of power, government corruption, and yet a foreign government was able to editorially control what American 
 
 viewers see on their T.V. screens. That to me is a scandal of epic proportions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANSLER: So, this is someone who has been on the Russian government radar probably for a long time, given that he was that outspoken critic of the 
 
 government there. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Thank you. Well, the Prime Minister and his top rival Benjamin Netanyahu's corruption trial takes a remarkable term. When Israel's 
 
 opposition leader takes the stand, we're live from Jerusalem for you.
 <br>[10:30:08]
 
That is after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. The time here is just after half past 6:00 in the evening. You're watching CONNECT THE 
 
 WORLD. Your headlines this hour. And Vladimir Putin is remembering former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi as -- and I quote him, 
 
 "Outstanding politician and a true patriot," those the Russian president's words. Berlusconi died in Milan at the age of 86 after battling Leukaemia. 
 
 The state funeral is now set for Wednesday.
 
Ukraine's military says its troops have recaptured several villages in the Donetsk region in the opening phase of a long-anticipated summer counter 
 
 offensive. It claims Russian forces are on the defensive, in areas near those frontlines. Well, Russia says it's pushing back and taking out 
 
 Western supplied armored vehicles.
 
Well, tomorrow, the world will be watching as former U.S. President Donald Trump steps into a federal courthouse in Florida to face a 37-charge 
 
 indictment. That indictment alleges Trump mishandled classified documents after he left office and tried to conceal his possession of those 
 
 classified materials from government investigators. Trump has denied any wrongdoing.
 
Well, an extraordinary scene as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's corruption trial today. Three judges heard from Mr. Netanyahu's top 
 
 political rival and former finance minister Yair Lapid. Yair Lapid testified about his dealings with a businessman who allegedly gave Mr. 
 
 Netanyahu expensive gifts in exchange for political favors. The Prime Minister denies any wrongdoing.
 
CNN's Hadas Gold joins us from Jerusalem getting so caught up on the trial. And perhaps our viewers might be forgiven. Given that the news out of 
 
 Israel has been so busy of late that this trial, of course is ongoing. Tell us what it is that Yair Lapid has said and what's the wider context here?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it's amazing to see a former prime minister or loopy testifying in the trial against the sitting Prime 
 
 Minister Yair Lapid now Netanyahu's main political rival as opposition leader. And he testified in this long, ongoing corruption all that's been 
 
 going on for more than two years now against Netanyahu on several charges of fraud, bribery and breach of trust.
 
Now Lapid took the stand to get today summoned by the prosecution. I should note that Netanyahu was not in the courtroom today but there was plenty of 
 
 attention still on Yair Lapid testifying today. Many, many media, many, many people are watching this take place.
 <br>[10:35:07]
 
Now he only testified for the prosecution for about 40 minutes and he's testifying because he was finance minister under Benjamin Netanyahu in 2013 
 
 2014 when some of these allegations are said to have taken place. Now, this specific case alleges that the billionaire Hollywood mogul Arnon Milchan 
 
 who's better known for being the producer of movies like Pretty Woman and 12 Years a Slave.
 
Some of the biggest movies of the last few decades that in -- that he got political favors from Benjamin Netanyahu in exchange for giving the nuts 
 
 and yellows lavish gifts like champagne and cigar and jewelry and the like. Now, specifically, Lapid testified that Milchan and his attorneys 
 
 approached Lapid when he was finance minister to extend Israelis who are abroad could get a tax break.
 
Now, Lapid also testified that Netanyahu himself brought this up to Lapid twice. Lapid told him both times that it wasn't going to happen he says and 
 
 he says the Prime Minister responded, "it's a good law." But Lapid did testify. They felt as though Netanyahu was just sort of checking the box 
 
 for Arnon Milchan. Now I should note that Benjamin Netanyahu has denied all of these charges against him in this corruption trial, calling it a witch 
 
 hunt.
 
Now in terms of where the trial stands, it's been going on now for more than two years. The prosecution has still been calling up witnesses. And 
 
 Becky we are probably at least two years away from the defense even being able to call up witnesses. So, although this is an incredible scene. A 
 
 trial, a sitting prime minister on trial for corruption charges. The way politics in Israel goes, Benjamin Netanyahu could be in and out of hospital 
 
 several times before this trial wraps up. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes, good point. Thank you. Well, a British tour company says three British tourists were killed in a boat fire in the Egyptian Red Sea. 
 
 That is according to a report from Reuters. The three were reported missing after the fire broke out on Sunday. Troll other tourists were rescued along 
 
 with the boat's entire crew.
 
Egyptian authorities have said the fire was caused by an electrical short circuit in the engine room. Witnesses say the fire grew very quickly.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDULRAHMAN A. ALSARHEED, KUWAITI TOURIST (through translator): During the briefing one of the people saw smoke coming out of the boat in front of us. 
 
 It was close to us around 50 meters away. One of the people on the blue boat said there was light smoke and in one or two minutes the smoke became 
 
 white and heavy. And then it turned black and the fire broke out so fast because it was windy in the morning.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Well, the U.K. Foreign Office says it is supporting the British nationals involved.
 
Well, you're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me Becky Anderson. Coming up. The wind that knocks tennis star Novak Djokovic to the ground. Stay with us 
 
 to find out why his latest victory is also his biggest.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:15]
 
ANDERSON: A record weekend in the world of tennis. As this man, Novak Djokovic claims an historic 23rd Grand Slam title. The Serbian legend as 
 
 you saw there, fell in awe after beating Casper Ruud in the French Open yesterday. Knocked to his feet and sure by the fact that he is now the 
 
 player with the most Grand Slam wins in men's tennis history. But as a 24th slam in his plans. Well, I caught up with Djokovic during his time in 
 
 Dubai. A few months back. Here's what he had to say about that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC, 23-TIME GRAND SLAM WINNER: You know, I've been really delighted to achieve some great things in the sport and a, you know, number 
 
 one rankings and historic number one weeks at number one ranking the world have managed to recently great goals record. So, right now, it's Grand 
 
 Slams and longevity. And really, I think, you know, we focus on ambitions and achievements and goals, which is, of course, super important because 
 
 people want to hear about it.
 
But I also try to remind myself and always talk about, you know, passion and love for the game. And I really have, you know, no reason to -- no 
 
 pressure to keep going, you know, playing now celebrating its 20th year of professional tennis. So, I've experienced enough, I've cheated enough but 
 
 at the same time, what is enough? It's never enough you know, you always want to do more. So of course, I have that kind of mentality but at the 
 
 same time, I'm enjoying the process.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Yes. Do you not bet against him? Patrick Snell joining me now. Where do you see the tennis legend pushing back that record?
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: Hi there. What a weekend. Momentous weekend for the sport. That was fascinating interview he gave you because 
 
 he gave some real insights that we don't always hear from him. I liked the use of the word longevity there. I tell you what, at 36 he's not doing half 
 
 bad, is he? I don't know. I think -- well, if he wins Wimbledon, look, he's the four-time defending champion, Becky at Wimbledon.
 
If he wins that, he moves on to 24, that would surpass Serena Williams and cause time level with the Australian great Margaret Court. But I think 
 
 privately he probably has a number in mind. He just hasn't shared it with anyone. But I suspect he knows is a few more in and he's playing impeccable 
 
 tennis. He is the man to beat now. He's playing opponents 10 to 15 years younger than him and absolutely just ploughing through them in straight 
 
 sets as we saw over the weekend.
 
There is so much more to come from him. He is far from done. And you can tell there in that interview that he gave to you is his words, the hunger 
 
 is very much there. Do not discount multiple more, Becky. That's all I'm going to say. Back to you.
 
ANDERSON: I know you've got more on that. And of course, the trophy parade which is set to begin in Manchester. One side of that city of course, 
 
 celebrating as Man City do the Treble. More on that in WORLD SPORT up after this short break with Patrick. I'll be back top of the hour for you. Stay 
 
 with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
END