Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: What`s the Presidential Records Act?; What`s the Deal with Backyard Chickens? Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired January 23, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello and happy Monday. I hope you had an awesome weekend and you`re ready to start this week strong. 
 
I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10 and I`m in Buffalo, New York, for yesterday`s NFL playoff action.
 
We start today, though, with news from the White House. On Friday, FBI investigators found more classified material while conducting a search of 
 
 President Biden`s Wilmington, Delaware home. This comes two weeks after it was first reported that classified documents were found at Biden`s private 
 
 office and then later again at his home in Delaware. 
 
Also on Thursday, President Biden said there was nothing more to this a special counsel investigation has been appointed to look into the situation 
 
 and here`s why. According to the Presidential Records Act, presidential records belong to the government and must be given to the National Archives 
 
 at the end of a president`s term. The documents in this case date back to win then Vice President Biden worked for the Obama administration.
 
After the discovery of the documents, the president`s lawyers say they`ve given the documents to the government and are fully cooperating with the 
 
 National Archives. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  We`re fully cooperating looking forward to getting this resolved quickly. I think you`re going to find 
 
 there`s nothing there. I have no regrets. I`m following what the lawyers have told me they want me to do. It`s exactly what we`re doing. There`s no 
 
 there there. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  This situation draws comparison to former President Donald Trump who is also under legal scrutiny for the scoring of classified documents at his 
 
 home in Florida. 
 
More now from CNN White House correspondent Jeremy Diamond.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Six more classified documents have been found at President Biden`s Wilmington, Delaware 
 
 residents. This time, they were found by FBI agents who were searching President Biden`s home with the president`s permission, the permission of 
 
 his legal team. And with the supervision of a personal attorney to the president as well as a representative of the White House counsel`s office.
 
Now, all of this was revealed on Saturday night by Bob Bauer, the president`s personal attorney who confirms that the FBI carried out a 
 
 nearly 13-hour search of the president`s Wilmington residence on Friday from 9:45 in the morning until around 10:30 at night. And those six 
 
 documents being found of following an exhaustive search of the president`s residence, the entire residence, we`re told, they were given access to. 
 
 Instead, this was done with the permission and the cooperation of President Biden`s legal team. 
 
But nonetheless, this is the fifth time in the last two weeks that we have learned of classified documents being found initially, it was, of course, 
 
 at the president`s former office in Washington for the Penn Biden Center. And then, of course, there was the discovery of documents at the 
 
 President`s Wilmington residence, and additional documents have since been discovered at that home or revealed since then.
 
And that drip, drip, drip has certainly been problematic for a White House that has been insisting as the president did just days before this 
 
 revelation, that there is no there there, insisting that he was surprised by the revelation of these documents and certainly a president who`s trying 
 
 to get past all this who hopes that the special counsel can do its work quietly, and ultimately exonerate him.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: 
 
Which of these terms refers to a group of chickens?
 
Brood, pod, caravan, or troop?
 
Brood is your answer here, though flock and peep are also terms used to describe a group of chickens.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  As we mentioned last week, an outbreak of the avian flu a virus affecting mostly birds is causing an egg shortage and it`s a big reason why 
 
 egg prices have surged. Well, I`m going to let you know about one solution some folks have found, more and more people are getting their yolks in 
 
 their own backyard. 
 
Having your own flock of chickens may be an excellent way to save some money, but some people are questioning the safety aspect and are being 
 
 critical of the noise it can make for their neighbors.
 
CNN correspondent Gabe Cohen has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GABE COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Every morning, Cassidy O`Donnell fetches a feast from her Pennsylvania yard. Fresh eggs from eight 
 
 chickens, an idea she hatched last spring, as food prices surged. 
 
CASSIDY O`DONNELL, CHICKEN OWNER:  We`ve seen that the price of eggs have gone up quite a bit. Now they`ve gotten even more expensive. So, grateful 
 
 for the decision that we made a year ago. 
 
COHEN:  The price of eggs is up a rotten 60 percent in a year, largely driven by a deadly avian flu outbreak across 47 states that`s left some 
 
 store shelves empty, inspiring more Americans to invest in backyard chickens, hoping to save some scratch. 
 
MIKE HIGMAN, OWNER, MY PET CHICKEN:  What we`re seeing right now is a wake up call from a lot of our customers. 
 
COHEN:  Mike Higman owns My Pet Chicken, which sells chicken supplies for backyard flocks. He says business is booming, up 80 percent this month, 
 
 compared to a year ago. 
 
MIKE HIGMAN, OWNER, MY PET CHICKEN:  We`re looking at record numbers, people are saying that prices of eggs are going up in stores, and that 
 
 they`re out of stock. This people that are concerned with what things are going to look like for food prices and food availability over the next 12 
 
 months. 
 
COHEN:  Rene Ruiz built this coop last May, and purchased three chickens, with eight more just hatched, concerned with the cost of feeding his family 
 
 of five. 
 
RENE RUIZ, CHICKEN OWNER:  I just don`t think it`s sustainable for people to continue to just pay what they`re being asked to pay in the supermarket, 
 
 without having an alternative, and that`s what this is. 
 
COHEN:  But his hens haven`t laid their first eggs. And he`s already spent more than $1,000 on this project. 
 
Do you think this will be worth it in the long run, as opposed to just buying eggs? 
 
RUIZ:  Yes. It`s going to pay off, not only after my first year. But just long term if I continue this process. 
 
COHEN:  But some experts are skeptical. 
 
Do you think most families won`t actually end up saving money? 
 
DR. BRIGID MCCREA, PH.D., POULTRY SPECIALIST:  No, the numbers don`t really work out. 
 
COHEN:  Bridget McCrea is a poultry specialist that teaches chicken owners how to raise small flocks, and she`s warning them not to wing it, as costs 
 
 like feed, housing, equipment, electricity, and time she says can drive up the average cost of backyard eggs to more than $20 a dozen. 
 
MCCREA:  The reality is, that you`re going to spend more money on your chickens at home than you are on eggs at the grocery store. 
 
COHEN:  But Cassidy O`Donnell says her hens are already fluffing the family`s bottom line, laying roughly eight dozen eggs each month, which 
 
 could cost more than $40 in a store. Instead, she`s spending about 20 bucks on chicken feed. 
 
O`DONNELL:  So, we`re saving a lot having them in the backyard right now. 
 
COHEN:  And she expects roughly 150 eggs a month once the weather warms up, and says they`ll try to sell what they can`t eat. 
 
O`DONNELL:  That`s like $70 an egg at the store right now. So, yeah, we`ll see a return on it. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  And today`s story getting a 10 out of 10 a bus for dogs. A wife/husband duo from Alaska have a dog walking business and they decided 
 
 to drive around town to pick up the pups in style.
 
CNN`s Jeanne Moos takes us for a ride.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Good morning Bama.
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It definitely isn`t a Greyhound bus but there are hounds in it.
 
MO THOMPSON, CO-OWNER, MO MOUNTAIN MUTTS:  Good morning, Jake.
 
MOOS:  Nothing but dogs jumping into their assigned seats attached to leashes rather than seat belts, picking up waiting passengers with wagging 
 
 tails.
 
THOMPSON:  Good morning, Amaru (ph).
 
Would you like a complimentary liver with your bus ride?
 
MOOS:  Nobody said no.
 
THOMPSON:  Jake.
 
Dasher.
 
Gumbo.
 
MOOS:  This bus is better than an airline.
 
THOMPSON:  Excuse you. You already had yours.
 
MOOS:  The doggy boss --  
 
THOMPSON:  Load up.
 
MOOS:  -- is operated by Mo Mountain Mutts in tiny Skagway, Alaska. It`s a husband and wife team offering dog training and dog walking.
 
Do the dogs know their own seat?
 
THOMPSON:  Most of them do. The new puppies don`t. They`ll try to just jump in any seat available.
 
MOOS:  As they ride to outings --  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No, these are tangled.
 
MOOS:  -- the bus offers the potential for entanglements. But when we watch them disembark -- oh sure, some of the passengers are rule breakers.
 
THOMPSON:  Excuse me, ma`am, your tail is in the aisle. Ma`am, you`re going to have to adjust your butt.
 
MOOS:  But there`s one seat that`s off limits.
 
THOMPSON:  Who`s honking the horn? Bama?
 
MOOS:  Bama`s ready to trade her dog license for a driver`s license.
 
THOMPSON:  Excuse me, ma`am, you`re not driving. Get out of my seat.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  All right. We have two special shout-outs today. One to Ms. Bardella (ph) and her students who came up to say hello here in Buffalo. It was 
 
 awesome to meet you.
 
Also, Warwick, Rhode Island, shout-out to Whitman Junior High. We see you. 
 
You know, I had an old teammate who used to say there`s no-mentum like momentum, so let`s take great energy into this day and start this week 
 
 strong. 
 
I`m Coy Wire and this is CNN 10.
 
END