Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: U.S. Soldier Now Held in North Korean Custody After His Unusual Entry in the DMZ; Trump Likely to be Indicted for the Third Time on Charges against His Attempt to Overturn the 2020 Polls; Israeli President to Speak at the Joint Meeting of the U.S. Congress; European Union Issues Red Alert for Southern Europe; U.S. returns More Than 100 Antiquities to India; Australian Castaway and his Dog Survived and Rescued from Sea. Aired 3-3:45a ET

Aired July 19, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead on "CNN Newsroom." Willfully and without authorization. That's how the Pentagon explained an American soldier's highly unusual entry into North Korea. 
 
And now the question officials are trying to answer is why? Zeroing in on Donald Trump, the former president likely facing new criminal charges over his efforts to overturn the 2020 election. We'll discuss Trump's mounting legal troubles just ahead. 
 
And no relief from the heat, Europe's scorching temperatures are only getting worse, triggering an E.U. red alert for several countries. 
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): Live from CNN Center, this is "CNN Newsroom" with Rosemary Church. 
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us. Well, the U.S. is facing a new diplomatic headache after an American soldier crossed into North Korea and is believed to be detained there. 
 
The head of the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command says he, quote, "made a run across the demilitarized zone in the Joint Security Area, was picked up by the North Koreans and we've had no contact at this point." 
 
Now Kristie Lu Stout is live in Hong Kong, and joins us now. Good to see you, Kristie. So what more are you learning about this U.S. soldier and how he crossed into North Korea and of course, what efforts are underway now to resolve this? 
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Rosemary, the U.S. soldier, he broke away from a tour group and crossed into North Korea willfully and without authorization. The U.N. command says it's working with the North Korean military to resolve this incident. And earlier today, North Korea fired two ballistic missiles, so attention is certainly high in the Korean Peninsula. 
 
Now, we have learned more about the U.S. soldier. He is Army Private Travis King. He was not in uniform when he crossed over into North Korea. He spent some 50 days in a detention facility in South Korea for assault involving at least one South Korean national. 
 
And he was facing disciplinary action by the U.S. military. He was set to be separated from the U.S. Army. A U.S. official told CNN that King was being escorted to the airport to go back to the U.S. But because the escorts couldn't go through customs, he was able to leave the airport. And then King later showed up crossing into North Korea during a tour of the Joint Security Area, or JSA. Let's bring up footage of this area. The JSA is located inside the DMZ. That's the highly fortified border separating the two Koreas. 
 
Now, the JSA tour is organized by the U.N. command. It's open to the public. And while there are checkpoints to get to the JSA, when you're there, the actual border between North and South Korea is only this small raised line on the ground. Now let's show you this photograph. You may remember when former U.S. President Donald Trump met with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, at the JSA in June of 2019, and there you see it. He stepped across that very line. 
 
Now during a JSA tour, participants are kept about 20 yards away from the line. Now, this border crossing incident, it comes at a time of high tension. This year, North Korea has fired about a dozen missiles, including long-range ICBMs. And earlier this morning, North Korea fired two short-range ballistic missiles into the waters off its eastern coast. 
 
So tension certainly rising on the Korean Peninsula, the fate of this U.S. soldier uncertain. Back to you, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: Our thanks to Kristie Lu Stout, joining us live from Hong Kong.
 
Donald Trump is very likely to be indicted in the coming days for a third time this year. The already twice-indicted, twice-impeached one- term president says he was informed by special counsel Jack Smith that he's a target of a criminal investigation into efforts to overturn the 2020 election. 
 
A grand jury continues to hear from witnesses, including a close Trump adviser who's expected to appear on Thursday. Trump's legal team has not formally responded to an invitation to testify before the grand jury, but it's largely expected he won't. 
 
CNN's Paula Reid has more from Florida.
 <br>[03:05:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA REID, CNN SR. LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Well, early Tuesday, former President Trump announced that he had received a target letter in the special counsel's investigation into January 6th. This announcement came just hours before his attorneys were expected
 
 in court in Florida for the special counsel's other investigation into the mishandling of classified documents at his Mar-a-Lago resort. Now it's interesting, this hearing in Florida was the first time that prosecutors and defense attorneys appeared before Judge Eileen Cannon.
 
She's the Trump-appointed judge who will oversee this prosecution and all eyes were on the judge to see just how receptive she was going to be to the Trump team's strategy of trying to delay any possible trial until after the 2024 election. 
 
I was in court for about two hours for this hearing and it was clear that Judge Cannon was amenable to this strategy. She thought that the special counsel's suggestion that they do this case, put this case on trial in December, that was a, quote, "compressed timeline." She said, look, cases like this, they take more time. 
 
Now, both sides were arguing about Trump's status as a candidate for the presidency and the extent to which that impacts the timing of a possible case. 
 
Now, his lawyers insist that this case is unusual. Would only be fair to do it after the election. But prosecutors said, look, he's not president just because he's running for president doesn't mean he should be treated any differently than any other quote "busy importance American." 
 
But notably the judge, she didn't seem interested in getting into this issue of his candidacy. She was focused on how long it was going to take the lawyers to do the work necessary to get this closer to trial. And you can expect that if the former president is charged in Washington in connection with January 6th, they will likely pursue a similar strategy trying to delay any possible trial at least. until the 2024 election. 
 
Paula Reid, CNN, Fort Pierce, Florida. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Joining me now from Los Angeles is Areva Martin. She is a civil rights attorney and legal affairs commentator. Good to have you with us. 
 
AREVA MARTIN, ATTORNEY AND LEGAL RIGHTS COMMENTATOR: Thank you. 
 
CHURCH: So former President Donald Trump says he is a target in the special council's election interference probe and he expects to be indicted. How significant is this and how will it likely play out legally do you think? 
 
MARTIN: Well it's incredibly significant. We have known all along since the January 6th congressional hearings where the Congress laid out in pretty compelling details the efforts that Donald Trump made to obstruct an official congressional act, i.e. the act of the peaceful transfer of power following the 2020 presidential election. We knew based on the witnesses that testified during that hearing,
 
 based on a lot of the documentary evidence that was presented during the congressional hearings, and the referral to the Department of Justice for criminal investigation and charges that were made by that investigatory body, that these charges were likely to come. 
 
And once the special counsel, Jack Smith, was appointed by the attorney general, it was only a matter of time before Donald Trump would have to face criminal charges and be held accountable for his actions related to the insurrection and efforts to overturn the legitimate election of Joe Biden as president. 
 
CHURCH: And Donald Trump responded to all of this by calling special counsel Jack Smith deranged and accusing President Biden of weaponizing the DOJ against him in an effort to win the 2024 presidential election. What do you say to attacks like that? 
 
MARTIN: We say this is right out of Donald Trump's playbook. Whenever he is held accountable or efforts are made to hold him accountable, rather than address the merits, he always attacks. He attacks the character. He attacks the process. He attacks, you know, anyone that dare try to hold him accountable. So his comments about Jack Smith, his comments about the Department of Justice somehow being weaponized, they're all meritless. 
 
They are all just efforts on the part of Donald Trump to deflect from his real conduct, his very serious, what we now know to be criminal conduct. We know that Mary Garland is not in charge of, has not been involved in the investigation of the January 6 insurrection. He removed himself from that process. He walled himself off purposely so that he would not be subject to these kinds of political attacks by Donald Trump and his allies. 
 
Jack Smith does not serve at the pleasure of the president in the way that Merrick Garland does. So I think we can dismiss these comments as just pure deflection and efforts by Donald Trump to gain points or curry points with his base. But they do not go to the heart of these very serious charges. 
 <br>[03:10:03]
 
CHURCH: Yeah, because at the same time, Trump is using this for sympathy to raise money through his campaign fundraising efforts. And that appears to be working for him, doesn't it? 
 
MARTIN: It appears to be working, but we should note, Rosemary, that it is a possibility that Trump will face criminal charges with respect to how he has fundraised on the big lie. 
 
We know that he has used the mail to send out fundraising requests, all again promoting the big lie that somehow the election was rigged or somehow that Joe Biden didn't win and that he was the true winner of the 2020 election. So there may actually be criminal charges, mail fraud and other kinds of fraudulent charges based on the fundraising that Trump continues to do with respect to the big lie. CHURCH: And Areva, Trump's legal woes don't end there, of course, with
 
 additional charges likely relating to other investigations into his actions. Judge Eileen Cannon is signaling that she will side with Trump on the timing of his classified documents trial. Apparently, she's open to delaying that trial, just as his side wants. 
 
What could all this potentially mean, do you think, for Trump legally when it comes to the GOP primaries and ultimately the November 2024 presidential election? 
 
MARTIN: Well, what it means, Rosemary, is that the Republican Party is going to have to decide. Does it want to nominate someone to be its candidate for president that is twice impeached and likely to be thrice, if not thrice times two, indicted, both in federal court and state courts? Particularly, we now know that he's indicted in the state of New York by the New York Manhattan district attorney.
 
And what does that say about the GOP party? The party that is supposed to be the law and order party, if it puts forth a candidate facing the kind of legal jeopardy that Donald Trump is facing? And as you've indicated, this won't end with a potential indictment over January 6. There is the indictment in Georgia, the potential indictment by that district attorney. That district attorney has indicated that we should expect something early August. 
 
He still has a civil case pending with E. Jean Carroll. We know the woman has already won $5 million against him in a civil suit. There's a Letitia James civil lawsuit going forward in New York. So. Literally, Donald Trump could be facing five or six criminal and civil trials by the time we get to the election next year. 
 
And I'm just not convinced that despite the way the MAGA base is supporting him today, that base is going to stick with him as more and more evidence becomes available with respect to the multiple criminal enterprises that he is likely to be charged with. 
 
CHURCH: Areva Martin, I appreciate your analysis. Thanks for joining us.
 
MARTIN: Thank you. 
 
CHURCH: Ukraine is fighting off Russian air assaults on the southern port city of Odessa and in the capital city of Kyiv. CNN teams captured this dramatic footage in Odessa earlier. Ukrainian military officials say their air defense systems have intercepted and destroyed a number of cruise missiles, the second attack in two days. 
 
Moscow says it's in retaliation for a Ukrainian attack on the Kerch Bridge. The first attacks on Odessa were launched just hours after Russia pulled out of a deal which enabled ships to safely carry Ukrainian grain across the Black Sea. Some of that grain has gone to countries suffering from food shortages. 
 
Ukraine's president says Russia's decision to back out will lead to food insecurity around the world. Russia's U.N. ambassador now says Moscow would return to the grain deal if its demands are met. For more now on Russia's airstrikes on Odessa. CNN's Alex Marquardt is
 
 there and saw the attack unfold. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SR. NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): An extraordinary display of firepower as Ukrainian air defenses furiously tried to fend off a major Russian air assault. 
 
It was the second night in a row that Ukraine's biggest port city, Odessa, came under Russian drone and cruise missile attack. Tracer rounds soaring into the sky, some appearing to make contact as the sky glowed. 
 
The second night's garage significantly larger than the first, as multiple enormous blasts echoed across the city on Wednesday before dawn. So violent, they made car alarms go off. 
 
It was a city still rattled. When top Biden administration official Samantha Power, the head of the U.S. development agency USAID, arrived in the Odessa port on Tuesday. In an exclusive interview, she blasted Russia's decision to pull out of the grain deal. 
 <br>[03:15:04]
 
SAMANTHA POWER, ADMINISTRATOR, U.S. AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT: The idea that Putin would play roulette with the hungriest people in the world at the time of the greatest food crisis in our lifetimes is just deeply disturbing. 
 
MARQUARDT (on-camera): So are you still optimistic that the Russians can be brought back in? 
 
POWER: It is going to require pressure not only from the United States and the United Nations, but from those countries in sub-Saharan Africa who will suffer most from the higher grain and oil prices. 
 
MARQUARDT (on-camera): The Russian complaint has been that this has been one-sided. Ukraine has been the only ones who have benefited from this, that they haven't been able to export their foodstuffs, their fertilizer. What do you make of that argument? 
 
POWER: Sanctions have not been imposed on Russian food and fertilizer. The idea that Russia should benefit from a deal designed to undo the effects of Russia's cruel and inhuman blockade against a sovereign country is absurd. 
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): Power announced the U.S. will be giving another $250 million to help Ukrainian agriculture, an investment, she argues, will help stabilize global food prices as the Russian onslaught continues. 
 
Overnight, an Odessa resident was trapped under a collapsed house after it was struck by a cruise missile. 
 
He's alive, a man says. He's breathing. Just one person was hurt in the more than two-hour Russian attack on this city. The military crack is firing would be a Russian target at sea, preparing for all kinds of attacks that with or without a grain deal, Power says, will continue. 
 
POWER: You are a bully and an aggressor? It is always easier to lob missiles and send drones at civilian infrastructure. So I think we absolutely should expect the worst from the Russian Federation as it continues to struggle on the battlefield. 
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): The Kremlin had said that Tuesday's attack on Odessa and elsewhere in the south was a retaliatory strike for Ukraine's attack on the Kerch Bridge, which connects Russia to illegally annexed Crimea. 
 
According to Vladimir Putin's spokesman, Moscow is still looking at other ways to respond even further. 
 
Alex Marquardt, CNN, Odessa. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And Clare Sebastian joins me now live from London. Good morning to you, Clare. So what is the latest on those strikes on Odessa? And what more are you learning about missile attacks also being repelled in Kyiv? 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Rosemary, this was a very serious assault, it seems, on Odessa, on Ukraine's southern Black Sea coast. The quote from the mayor of Odessa, he said, we do not recall such a scale of attacks since the beginning of the full-scale invasion. The Air Force is saying that there were 31 cruise missiles launched.
 
They managed to shoot down 14 of those 32 Shahed attack drones of which they managed to shoot down 23. So some did get through. We're hearing reports of a number of injuries with daylight, more coming to light in Odessa, at least 11 reported. Some from the activities of air defense, falling fragments, shards of glass, residential areas being affected by that. 
 
There's also a report from the head of the regional administration in Odessa saying that some of the missiles did get through, hit a grain and oil terminal at Odessa port. Don't forget, this comes just two days after Russia pulled out of that Black Sea grain initiative. So a really serious night in Odessa. More details still coming to light on the damage there. 
 
And separately, we're hearing about an incident in Crimea, Russian- occupied Crimea. Authorities there, Russian-installed authorities, saying that a fire has broken out at a military training ground. Around 2,000 people, they say, have been evacuated. A section of highway has been closed. No information yet on the cause of that. Rosemary? 
 
CHURCH: All right. Our thanks, Clare Sebastian, joining us live from London. I Appreciate it. Well, still to come, the Israeli president is set to address the U.S.
 
 Congress in the coming hours in a bipartisan show of support for America's key ally in the Middle East. We will have the details just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: The leading candidate to be the next prime minister of Thailand has been suspended from parliament. The election commission accuses Pita Limjaroenrat, leader of the Move Forward Party, of violating election laws for holding shares in a media company. He denies any wrongdoing.
 
His party won the most seats in May elections, and lawmakers are voting today for the second time in a week on his bid to be prime minister. The 42-year old Harvard graduate has pledged to soften the kingdom's strict royal defamation laws, a move opposed by the military establishment. 
 
Well, in the coming hours, Israeli President Isaac Herzog will address a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress. It comes a day after he met President Joe Biden at the White House in a gesture meant to demonstrate America's commitment to Israel and its security. 
 
CNN's Hadas Gold has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Israeli President Isaac Herzog's trip to the United States and his address to a joint session of Congress on Wednesday is likely the type of trip to the United States that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wishes he was having right now. 
 
But instead, it is the Israeli president taking this trip, sitting down with President Biden in the Oval Office, meeting with all the top figures of American politics, including the vice president, speaker of the House, and addressing a joint session of Congress. 
 
Now this trip and the speech is ostensibly to mark Israel's 75 years of statehood, and that's why it's the Israeli president going. He is the ceremonial figurehead. He is not technically a part of this Israeli government led by Benjamin Netanyahu. He's not even a part of Benjamin Netanyahu, whose party.
 
And I think that's significant because tensions in the relationship between this Israeli government led by Netanyahu and President Joe Biden's administration are rather high right now, both about because of the situation in the occupied West Bank, but also because of this massive judicial overhaul plan that Benjamin Netanyahu's government has been trying to push through. And actually, as President Herzog landed in the United States, another massive day of protests were going on here across Israel. 
 
Protesters were essentially shutting down many of the train stations, were taking to the streets once again in opposition to this judicial overhaul plan that Benjamin Netanyahu's government has been trying to push through. 
 
Now President Herzog has actually been at the forefront of efforts to try and mediate some sort of compromise negotiation between Benjamin Netanyahu's government and the opposition parties hosting negotiation talks at the president's residence over the past few months. But those seemingly fell apart, and the government has been pushing forward once again with parts of this legislation. And that's why we're seeing these protests really ramping up over the past week or so across Israel. 
 
Now, the day before Herzog landed, President Biden did have a phone call with Benjamin Netanyahu. But there is a question about whether there was actually an invitation to the White House or to the United States or not. Now, the Israeli readout of that phone call did say that President Biden invited Prime Minister Netanyahu to the United States for a visit. But the White House readout didn't go so far. 
 
We have, as the White House using, essentially saying that they agreed to meet. That's according to National Security Council spokesman John Kirby not mentioning the word invitation not mentioning the word White House now there is some Predictions potentially that what that could mean is that the two will meet sometime in the United States. But not isn't necessarily a big oval office White House meeting most likely that could possibly be a meeting on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly that is set to take place in September. 
 <br>[03:25:24]
 
Hadas Gold, CNN, Jerusalem. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And still to come, fires, flooding and extreme heat. The climate crisis wreaks havoc across Europe, Asia and the southern U.S. The latest forecast, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back everyone. Well Southern Europe is bracing for another scorcher today, prompting the E.U. to issue a red alert for a number of countries. Madrid is expected to reach 39 degrees Celsius, Rome and Athens will see a high of 38, wildfires fueled by the heat wave have spread across Greece and Switzerland, one of the largest is burning north of Athens. 250 firefighters are on the scene.
 
And, southern china is surveying the damage from typhoon Talim. Tens of thousands of people were evacuated ahead of the storm. Now beaches are closed and search and rescue operations are underway throughout the region. Well, CNN's Anna Coren is standing by live in Hong Kong, but first we
 
 want to bring in our Barbie Nadeau at the Spanish Steps in Rome. So Barbie, what is the latest on conditions where -- all right, we've just lost. We've just lost Barbie. 
 
All right, let's bring in Anna Coren. As I said, she's there in Hong Kong. So Anna, high temperatures across Asia as well, of course, including in China, where U.S. climate envoy John Kerry is wrapping up his trip to Beijing after ongoing efforts to find ways to respond to extreme conditions like this caused by global warming. What has been achieved so far? 
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rosemary, you know, John Kerry has made some real inroads on this trip, which we'll wrap up later today. He said that the mood is very, very positive and while talks have been complex, they've also been very constructive. 
 
In his meeting with China's Vice President, Han Zheng, this morning, Kerry said climate change is a universal threat that should be treated as a freestanding challenge, requiring the efforts of, you know, the U.S. and China. The two largest economies, the two largest. just polluters that they need to work to resolve this. Han said China and the U.S. will issue a joint statement later and that in itself will send a positive signal to the world.
 <br>[03:30:00] 
 
He praised Kerry, you know, for the close communication and dialogue with China. You know, Kerry was a U.S. presidential Democratic nominee. He was the U.S. Secretary of State under President Obama. He is respected and well liked by the Chinese. 
 
And, you know, while meeting with China's top diplomats Wang Yi and Premier Li Qiang yesterday, they both referred to him as an older friend. Kerry said, and let me read to you what he said, if we can come together over these next months leading up to COP 28, which is the U.N. climate summit, which will be the most important since Paris, we will have an opportunity to be able to make a profound difference on this issue. 
 
The Paris reference, Rosemary, is the agreement signed in 2015 to keep global warming below two degrees Celsius of pre-industrial temperatures that was later revised to 1.5. 
 
On this trip, Kerry has called on China to curb expansion of coal plants and reduce its use of methane. Methane is a greenhouse gas responsible for about 30 percent of global warming. 
 
Now China has always resisted those calls saying it's a developing nation and it needs fossil fuels to support its economic development. 
 
Overnight Chinese leader Xi Jinping, he weighed in. Let me read to you what he said. The dual carbon goal we have committed to is firm and unshakable but the method and path, the pace and intensity of achieving this goal should and must be determined by ourselves and never subject to the influence of others. Clearly that is a message to John Kerry and his delegation. 
 
China has pledged to level off carbon emissions by 2030 and become carbon neutral by 2060. That is not fast enough as far as the U.S. is concerned. They're calling on China to, you know, put out much more ambitious targets. But this is the final day of talks for John Kerry. He's going to hold a press conference just before 6.00 p.m. local time this evening before flying out. Rosemary. 
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: All right, our thanks to Anna Coren joining us live from Hong Kong. 
 
We've reestablished contact with Barbie Nadeau now in Rome. So Barbie, let's go to you. What is the latest on conditions where you are? What more are you learning about the rest of southern Europe, including, of course, those wildfires north of Athens? 
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Yeah, those wildfires are so disturbing. You know, when you think about the conditions those firefighters are under to try to fight those, these are outside of Athens right now. The European Union sent assets from various countries to try to help them fight those fires, because of course with the strong winds and hot temperatures, that's not easy. 
 
Here in Rome, we hit a record yesterday, 41.8, but that record was only a year old. It was set last June, and it's about a degree hotter. You know, we've seen a 20 percent increase in emergency room visits for people. suffering from heat exhaustion or other ailments related to heat.
 
The authorities here, again, telling people, especially between the hours of noon and 6 p.m., to stay inside, don't go out. We've seen time and time again that the residents and Italians, like in the rest of southern Europe, mostly follow that advice. But we've got, you know, thousands and thousands and thousands of tourists here in places like the Spanish Steps and all over the city, standing in the sun during the heat of the day. 
 
And this is the second week, you know, we're going into this incessant heat, you know, a degree here, a degree there, it doesn't matter, it's still very, very hot. And you know, people are trying to stay hydrated, trying to stay, you know, cool when they can, but there's a big concern that this heat is going to start wearing so much on the, on not just the residents, but these tourists who are out here not taking the advice of the authorities, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: Yeah. So many of them not wearing hats, it's incredible. Barbie Nadeau, many thanks for joining us live from Rome. I appreciate it. 
 
Well, forecasters are predicting severe storms across Central Europe today. Large hail and heavy rainfall could impact Austria, Hungary, Croatia and Serbia. Romania and Slovakia are also under threat. 
 
More now from CNN meteorologist, Chad Myers. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Well, the heat is certainly on in the Northern Hemisphere, and we'd expected it because it's summer. But there are heat domes in teleconnected ways across the western part of the United States, the western part of the Atlantic, all of the European countries, especially southern Europe, and then back out here into parts of Asia. 
 
If you are under the ridge of high pressure, the line you see there is the jet stream. If you're under that, south of that, then all of a sudden you are going to be in some very hot weather. If you're north of it, you're going to be a little bit cooler. Of course that's how it all works. 
 
But taking you back all the way to July 3rd, the July of 2023 has been above all the other months and for fact, all the way above the old record high setting you back into 2016. 
 <br>[03:35:01]
 
So look at this, Persian Gulf International Airport, the heat index was 152 degrees, almost unbearable for most. And we're gonna be hot again for today, hot again for tomorrow. This isn't gonna change very much. Temperatures are gonna be approaching 50 degrees in Kuwait City. Little drier there. 
 
But for Rome, 41.8, the new all time record for July. That was just broken last July. So again, one degree higher than the old record there in Rome, and it's going to be hot over the next couple of days. Northwestern Europe. You're in awesome shape. It's cooler than normal. You're not part of that heat dome that I talked about. Very, very cool weather there. Windy and cold in some spots if you watched any of the Scottish Open. 
 
Here's the forecast for some fires here around Athens as well. We talked about that over the last couple of days. Rome, you're going to begin to cool down from the 40s down into the 30s. I think really though for Greece, for Athens, you're not going to cool down much. You're still going to be above 40, well above your normal high. Rome, you should be 32, you'll be 38, cooling slightly in the middle of the week, but not below normal. 
 
And then here the heat dome for the United States excessive heat warnings all the way for millions, tens of millions of people in the heat dome category here from Death Valley to Vegas to Palm Springs into Phoenix, all 10 to 15 degrees above normal for the next couple of days. Try to stay cool. Make sure the pets, the people and your property are taken care of. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: A magnitude 6.5 earthquake was recorded off the coast of El Salvador Tuesday night, but no immediate reports of damage. About 750,000 people experienced strong shaking, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. More than 10 million people across several countries experienced light tremors. Well, still to come. An incredible tale of survival at sea. A sailor
 
 describes how he and his beloved dog managed to stay alive for months, hundreds of miles from land.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH: The United States is returning more than 100 trafficked antiquities to India. The Indian embassy in the U.S. says the relics represent diverse regions and traditions of India and date as far back as the 2nd century A.D. 
 
India says many of the items are linked to disgraced New York art dealer Subhash Kapoor. He was sentenced in November to 10 years in prison by an Indian court for smuggling. 
 
An Australian man has recounted the remarkable tale of his rescue after spending more than two months at sea. Tim Shaddock and his dog Bella set out from Mexico on a fishing expedition in early May bound for French Polynesia. 
 <br>[03:40:04]
 
But weeks into their voyage, their small catamaran was damaged in a storm, leaving them adrift. Shaddock was in poor health but managed to survive by collecting rainwater and eating raw fish. They spent their days waiting and hoping for rescue, which miraculously came last week thanks to the crew of a tuna vessel. Here's what Shaddock had to say once he was back on land. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TIM SHADDOCK, SAILOR RESCUED AT SEA: Look to the captain and this fishing company that saved my life, I mean, what do you say? I'm just so grateful. I'm alive and I really didn't think I'd make it, you know? So thank you, thank you so much. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And Shaddock has some kind words for his beloved Bella as well. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHADDOCK: Bella -- Bella sort of found me in the middle of Mexico. She's Mexican, you know. She is the spirit of the middle of the country and she wouldn't let me go. She's a beautiful animal. I'm just grateful she's alive. You know, she's a bit, she's a lot braver than I am. That's for sure. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: A wonderful happy ending there. 
 
Well, Virgin Galactic has announced the passengers for its first space tourism flight. Entrepreneur and health and wellness coach Keisha Shahaf and her 18 year old daughter Anastasia will be the first mother-daughter duo to visit space as well as the first from the Caribbean and John Goodwin will be the first Olympian in space. The 80 year old competed in the 1972 Munich Games, Goodwin has Parkinson's disease and would be just the second person with the condition to travel to space. Well done to them. 
 
Well, thanks so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. "Marketplace Europe" is up next. Then, "CNN Newsroom" continues with Christina MacFarlane in London. Have a great day. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MARKETPLACE EUROPE)
 <br>[03:45:00]
 
(MARKETPLACE EUROPE)