Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Deadline on Monday for Trump's Lawyers to Respond to Special Counsel's Filing; DeSantis Wraps Up Campaigning in Iowa; DeSantis Trails Trump in National Opinion Polls; Heatwave Conditions Expected to Persist in Parts of the U.S.; Midsection of the U.S. Threatened by Severe Storms with Damaging Winds; Russia's War on Ukraine; Russian Bomb Strikes Blood Transfusion Center in Ukraine; Russia Claims to Capture a Ukrainian Village; Ukraine Attacked a University in Donetsk, According to TASS; Additional Images of Russia's Shoigu Visiting Troops in Ukraine; Pope Francis Presides Over World Youth Day; Deadline to Cede Power; Deadline for Niger's Military Junta to Reinstate Ousted President; West African Countries Developing Intervention Plan for Niger; Israelis Staged Large Protests for 31 Weeks In A Row; Imran Khan, Former Prime Minister, Sentenced to Three Years in Prison; Twitch Streamer Charged with Inciting Riot; 17-year- old Charged with Hate Crime in the Stabbing of Professional Dancer; Feds Tracking Cryptocurrency in Order to Disrupt Fentanyl Trade; After the Earthquake, Turkish Family is Rebuilding Silk Business; Victims of Hiroshima Atomic Bomb Attack Remembered; In Japan, Film "Oppenheimer" Met with Criticism; Netherlands Defeated South Africa to Advance to Quarterfinals; USA to face Sweden at World Cup; After a Two-Year Hiatus, Simone Biles Triumphs in Competition. Aired 4-5a ET

Aired August 06, 2023 - 04:00: &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:00:00]
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Welcome to "CNN Newsroom." Coming up -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND U.S REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  We call it a sham indictment and it -- you know, the man that's doing it, I really believe he's mentally ill.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Donald Trump continuing his pattern of stunning public statements on his indictment a day after running into legal trouble for comments he posted online.
 
Coup leaders in Niger face an ultimatum, reinstate the president today or face potential military intervention. We'll have a live report from the region.
 
And we're an hour away from the U.S. facing off against Sweden in the Women's World Cup, and the excitement is building. We'll take you live to a World Cup watch party in New York City.
 
ANNOUNCER:  Live from CNN center, this is "CNN Newsroom with Lynda Kinkade."
 
KINKADE:  A new deadline and a new legal ruling in the latest indictment of Donald Trump. The federal judge overseeing Trump's election fraud case has responded to a court filing from Special Counsel Jack Smith last night. Smith wants the protective order after Trump posted this, "If you go after me, I'm coming after you."
 
Smith wants the judge to stop Trump from his -- and his legal team from publicly discussing sensitive evidence, and the judge has now given the Trump team until 5:00 p.m. Monday to respond. Well, despite all of these legal battles, the former president is slamming the special counsel at campaign rallies. Most recently, in the early primary state of South Carolina.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND U.S REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  And by the way, virtually every poll, we're kicking Biden's ass. And that's the problem -- that's the problem. And if I wasn't, if I wasn't, we wouldn't be under investigation by deranged Jack Smith. He's a deranged human being. You take a look at that face, you say, that guy is a sick man. There's something wrong with him.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Now, CNN's Alayna Treene was at that South Carolina event and filed this report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER:  The former president spent much of his Saturday night speech railing against the recent charges that he faces, as well as attacking Special Counsel Jack Smith directly. Donald Trump called him, "Mentally ill", as well as "Deranged."
 
Now, the former president also made an appeal to Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill. He argued that they needed to step up and do something in order to help defend him against his recent legal matters. But one big thing that I find to be different from his speech on Saturday is that it came less than 24 hours after Jack Smith wrote in a court filing, asking a judge to set limits on what Trump's team can do with the evidence shared in the election subversion case.
 
Now, the judge ultimately ruled on Saturday that Donald Trump's team must respond to that proposal by Monday afternoon. But there were a lot of questions going into Saturday night, whether Donald Trump's team would encourage him to change his rhetoric in light of that court filing. But clearly, he did not.
 
Alayna Treene, CNN, Columbia, South Carolina.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) KINKADE:  Well, as we mentioned, Trump's attorneys have until 5:00 p.m. Monday to respond to the special counsel's request for strict controls over sensitive evidence into the election meddling case. Earlier, CNN spoke with former Trump White House Lawyer James Schultz about why prosecutors felt compelled to make this filing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES SCHULTZ, FORMER TRUMP WHITE HOUSE LAWYER:  He opened up the door for this type of motion by Jack Smith with that comment. And no surprise that they made that motion that -- and that the judge is going to take it seriously and get a hearing right away, which she's going to be very thoughtful about this. She's going to have to balance the former president's first amendment right to political speech against the needs to protect that sensitive information, and perhaps grand jury information, witness list, witness testimony, witness interviews.
 
Those kinds of things are certainly going to be protected that could -- the judge is going to be taking seriously the need to protect the witnesses from threats, intimidation, and those types of things that could be incited from that speech. But she's going to have to make that strike, that balance, and I think she'll be thoughtful about it. And something the Trump legal team is going to have to deal with throughout this campaign.
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
Because there are going to be limitations on what the former president can say as it relates to this case and information he actually receives from this case and how he can use it publicly. So, yes, it opened up the door and certainly justified the -- gave the prosecution ability to justifiably go to court on.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, Trump is also taking aim at his former vice president, Mike Pence, unleashing his most blistering attack yet. Pence, who was also seeking the White House, has repeatedly criticized Trump over the January 6th insurrection, though he says he's not convinced Trump's actions were criminal. But as we've seen, Trump does not take well to any criticism. In a social media post, Saturday, Trump lashed out in some of his sharpest language yet. Referring to Liddle Mike Pence, calling him, delusional and not a very good person.
 
Well, another of Trump's many Republican viables for the presidential nomination wrapped up his second day in Iowa. On Saturday, Ron DeSantis attended the attorney general's big barn bash, mingling with Iowans, eating fried chicken, and making his pitch to voters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. RON DESANTIS (R-FL), U.S REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  A leader has to put the jobs of the people he represents ahead of protecting his own political hide. That is what you're -- it doesn't matter what the politics is. The time for excuses for Republicans is over. We must get the job done now. With God's help, I will get the job done. And I promise you this, I won't let you down.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, FiveThirtyEight's poll of polls shows that DeSantis is trailing by -- Trump by nearly 40 points nationally. But a recent "New York Times", Siena College Poll of Iowa voters shows Trump's support below the national average, while support for DeSantis is slightly higher.
 
Well, even more dangerous record-breaking heat is expected in the coming days from California to Florida. Right now, more than 60 million people are under heat alerts across the south and southwest. Heat indices could top 115 degrees in some parts. Across much of Oklahoma, Louisiana, and Mississippi, high temperatures could range from 100 to 108 degrees, that's five to 10 degrees above normal. The temperatures will be 10 to 15 degrees above normal throughout southwest Texas and parts of Arizona.
 
CNN Meteorologist Allison Chinchar breaks it all down for us.
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  More than 100 records are expected to be broken, all the way through Monday of the upcoming week. And this stretches from Arizona all the way over into Florida. Keep in mind, some of these cities could end up breaking records two, if not even three days in a row.
 
Looking at the actual temperatures for Sunday, we will top out at 107 degrees in Dallas, 105 in San Antonio, 101 in Jackson, Mississippi, even Tallahassee topping out at 97 degrees. And that doesn't even take into account the humidity that's going to be factored in. The problem is in the long-term forecast, that heat stays in place across the southern tier of the U.S., so there's not really much relief in sight for a lot of these cities, including Phoenix, which is expected to stay well above their average of 106 for at least the next seven days.
 
The only cities that are likely to see some relief are the ones that are getting rain showers, and that's really going to be focused across the Midwest, spreading into the mid-Atlantic region over the next 24 to 48 hours. The problem is it's not just some summer rain showers. You're also looking at the potential for some severe storms. The main concerns for a lot of these cities are going to be damaging winds, large hail, but flooding is also going to be a concern, especially for hard-hit states like Kentucky and Tennessee, which have seen a tremendous amount of rain just in the last 48 hours.
 
Now we're adding more rain on top of that. So, areas like Cincinnati, Nashville, St. Louis, even stretching down to Atlanta, all have the potential more those severe storms on Sunday. The forecast rainfall for a lot of these areas, you're mostly looking at two to four inches. But remember, this is compounded on top of whatever any of these communities have had in the last two to three days, now we're going to be adding on top of that as well.
 
KINKADE:  Thank you for that report.
 
Well, Ukraine says its air defenses fought off a Russian attack overnight. Kyiv says, Russia launched two waves of strikes, one Saturday night, the other Sunday morning, but Ukraine shot down all 26 drones used in those attacks and a majority of the 40 cruise missiles. Kyiv says, a Russian-guided bomb hit a blood transfusion center in the city of Kupiansk on Saturday, setting it ablaze. President Zelenskyy says there are dead and wounded, but we don't have any numbers just yet.
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
Russia is claiming progress elsewhere. It says, its troops captured this village in the neighboring Luhansk region on Saturday.
 
For more on all these developments, we're joined now by Nada Bashir who joins us from London. Good to have you with us, Nada. So, I want to start with that news just in that Russia has launched this wave of attacks across Ukraine. Fortunately, according to Ukraine, most were shot down.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER:  Yes, that is news coming in now from Ukraine's air force command. They have said that their air defense systems were able to intercept or down the majority of these drones and missiles that were used last time in those attacks. According to that air force command, 70 aerial attack weapons were used in total by the Russian armed forces, launched from both sea and air. Targeting Ukrainian territory, and in particular those areas in the east.
 
We saw that first wave last night, several missiles, dozens of missiles -- cruise missiles launched towards Ukrainian territory, followed by a second wave of Iranian-made Shahed attack drones being used against Ukrainian territory. Again, all of those intercepted or downed by the Ukrainian air defense systems. One of the key targets, according to Ukraine's air force command, was a strategic air base in western Ukraine. And explosions were reportedly heard in the vicinity of this base, with damage to residential buildings so far reported.
 
KINKADE:  And talk to us a little bit more about this attack on the blood transfusion center, which of course is just a few dozen kilometers from Russia's border. President Zelenskyy called the perpetrators beasts. What can you tell us about that attack and the aftermath?
 
BASHIR:  Well, look, over the last few days, we have seen the targeting of the Kharkiv region really intensify. And of course, this is just one of those attacks that we have seen over the last few days. As you mentioned, President Zelenskyy saying that a Russian-guided aerial bomb was used by the Russian armed forces, targeting this blood transfusion center, setting it ablaze. And sadly, fatalities have been confirmed amongst the wounded.
 
Now, we have seen intense air strikes and shelling across the Kharkiv region in recent days, particularly along the Luhansk-Kharkiv border, which has been a key front line now for some time. But of course, we are seeing fighting further afield as well in the southeast Donetsk region, the occupied Donetsk region.
 
Russia has also accused Ukraine of its own attacks. It says that 48 attacks were reported over the last 24 hours, and in particular one attack targeting a university in the Donetsk region. They claim that Ukraine used cluster munitions to target this university, igniting it into flames. However, they say, according to Russian state media, citing emergency services on the ground, nobody was present in the building at the time. And CNN hasn't been able to independently verify those claims around the use of cluster munitions.
 
But of course, the intense fighting, the clashes, the use of munitions and firearms across these frontline areas, it's really intensified over the last few days. And we've heard from the Ukrainian armed forces, this is part of their continued persistent efforts as part of that counteroffensive.
 
KINKADE:  All right. We'll leave it there for now. Nada Bashir staying across those developments for us from London. Thanks so much.
 
Well, Russia is showing more videos of its defense minister visiting troops in Ukraine. Take a look at this footage, it was released Saturday, showing Sergei Shoigu at a military base in eastern Ukraine. He met with commanders and handed out medals for bravery to various soldiers. Shoigu and Russia's top general have stepped up their visits to the front line in recent days. They both were berated for alleged incompetence by Wagner leader Yevgeny Prigozhin, who staged a short- lived immunity in late June.
 
Well, the Ukrainian postal service has issued a new stamp that calls on western allies to provide the country with fighter jets. The design shows a Kremlin tower at the mercy of a cheese grater. Its holes are shaped like a U.S. F-16 fighter jets. According to the post office, the stamp is intended to stress the urgent need for the jets from western allies in order to defense against Russian attacks. Hundreds of people lined up to buy the stamp and the matching envelope in the capital on Friday. The post office says, proceeds from the stamp will be used to send drones to Ukrainian forces.
 
Well, still ahead on "CNN Newsroom", uncertainty in Niger as coup leaders face a deadline to give up power. Is military intervention likely or can diplomacy still prevail.
 
Plus, a social media influencer facing charges of inciting a riot after he lured thousands of his followers for a free giveaway that went terribly wrong. Those details ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
KINKADE:  Well, right now, Pope Francis is celebrating holy mass for World Youth Day in Lisbon, Portugal. The pontiff is wrapping up a five-day visit there. More than a million of the catholic faithful greeted him during this trip. The 86-year-old kept up a pretty busy schedule. And later today, he'll be meeting with World Youth Day volunteers before he attends a farewell ceremony at the airport. Pope Francis will then head back to Rome aboard the papal plane, which is often dubbed Shepherd One. Well, today is the deadline Niger's coup leaders were given to reinstate the country's ousted president. A block of west African nations set that deadline and drafted a plan for potential military intervention if that demand was not met. Well, France says, it firmly supports the group's efforts, while Algeria is rejecting the notion of any military action.
 
CNN's Larry Madowo joins us now with more on these developments. Good to have you with us, Larry. So, these deadline for the restoration of democracy and the reinstatement of the president is today. If the coup leaders don't adhere to that ultimatum set by the neighboring countries, what could happen?
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The coup leaders are unlikely to step it -- step down and reinstate President Bazoum, which means that ECOWAS should then go ahead and military intervene like they threatened. But, that's not an easy solution. And, Lynda, this is why ECOWAS has, sort of, boxed themselves in with this decision. If they do send in their armies, then that sets off a protracted conflict that they don't want to get involved in. If they don't do anything, then that's an empty threat, and that's also something that sell -- tells future coups that, you know, you can carry out a coup d'etat and nothing happen.
 
On the other hand, President Mohamed Bazoum expects to be rescued from this situation. I want to read a section for you from his op-ed in "The Washington Post" where he said, I write as a hostage. I -- in our hour of need, I call on the U.S. government and the entire International Community to help us restore our constitutional order. Fighting for our shared values, including democratic pluralism and respect for the rule of law is the only way to make sure sustainable progress against poverty and terrorism.
 
And President Bazoum said, the Nigerian people will never forget your support at this pivotal moment in our history. So, we're waiting to hear from today if the Economic Community of West African States will go ahead and militarily intervene if they said they're ready, or they'll find some other way to extend the deadline here. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  And of course, Larry, Niger is a former French colony. The coup leaders have suspended French-funded international news outlets. They've also revoked several military agreements. But Niger is far from the first French colony where the army has seized control, right?
 
MADOWO:  No, it is not. There have been seven coups in this region since 2020, all of them in former French colonies. In Chad, in Burkina Faso, in Mali, in Guinea. And the is huge anti-French sentiment in the country which has also given some backing and support for the Nigerian military junta who's taken over. In fact, the Burkina Faso and Mali military leaders said, any kind of military intervention in Niger would be tantamount to an act of war against them even though the prime minister of President Bazoum does not think that's a possibility for very specific reasons. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OUHOUMOUDOU MAHAMADOU, OUSTED NIGERAN PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  We don't have the Malian military on our borders, we have jihadist groups. We don't have the Burkinabe government and soldiers on our border, we have jihadist groups. So, to get to Niger, they have to cross the jihadist groups they've spent years fighting and haven't managed to fight. So, for us, that's an empty threat. We don't see how the Malian army or the Burkinabe army could intervene in Niger.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO:  Even if the Mali or Burkinabe armies don't intervene in Niger, it is true that they have banded together in this coalition of military juntas in the region. Mali Burkina Faso, Niger and Guinea against the French. Mali invited the Wagner group from Russia to have them fight the jihadist threat after they expelled French troops there. And Niger appears to be heading that very direction. One of the first places that the military junta went to after they deposed President Bazoum was to Mali, to Bamako, to try and work out some kind of security cooperation. Lynda.
 
KINKADE:  Seeing this time and time again. Larry Madowo in Nairobi for us, good to have you with us. Thanks.
 
Well -- an enormous wave of Israeli protesters, again, have swept through central Tel Aviv on Saturday. Calling on their government to stop its contentious overhaul of the nation's judiciary. Large demonstrations like this have taken place every weekend since January, and sometimes more often.
 
Journalist Elliott Gotkine was there and filed this report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELLIOT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST:  Israel's parliament, the Knesset, may be on its long summer recess. We may be in the midst of summer holidays, but as you can see, there is still no let-up to these protest against the government's judicial overhaul. Once again, more than eight months in, there are still tens of thousands, if not more, people on the streets protesting against this judicial overhaul, which these protesters say will irreparably damage Israeli democracy. And there will be no let-up, they say, until the government either reaches a compromise or until it backs down.
 
Elliott Gotkine, CNN, Tel Aviv.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, just hours earlier, downtown Tel Aviv was rocked by a fatal shooting incident. Israeli police say, a police officer was on patrol in a financial district and was shot by a Palestinian gunman. The gunman was then shot and killed by another officer. The U.S. state department has condemned the incident, calling it a terror attack.
 
In Pakistan, several supporters of Imran Khan were as arrested during a protest after he was convicted of corruption and jailed Saturday. The former prime minister faces three years in prison and is being disqualified from holding future office. CNN's Sophia Saifi has more.
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOPHIA SAIFI, CNN PRODUCER:  This is Imran Khan's second arrest of the year, and this disqualification comes after the Election Commission of Pakistan disqualified Imran Khan back in October. And now, this has happened in a court of law where he's been found guilty of the misdeclaration of assets. It goes back to when Imran Khan was the prime minister here in Pakistan and he was given state gifts, which he allegedly sold for person gain and then did not declare the sale of those gifts.
 
Now, Imran Khan is currently in police custody. When he was arrested back in May, there was an incredible amount of protests across the country. We have not seen the same sort of reaction here in Pakistan today. There has been an immense crackdown on Imran Khan supporters, which has been criticized by human rights groups. But again, we're still waiting to see how this situation will unfold.
 
Imran Khan's party has filed an appeal to the Supreme Court, but it's a Sunday, so we're not expecting much movement on that front. Marriyum Aurangzeb, who's Pakistan's information minister has come out and said that this entire situation regarding Khan's arrest and his charge of being guilty by the court is not politically motivated.
 
But we have to realize that in Pakistan's history, at least in the past 16 years, the majority of prime ministers who have been removed from office, not a single prime minister has completed his entire term. And we're still waiting to see how this unfolds, whether the protesters are going to come out, whether this already tumultuous year, an election year in Pakistan is going to get more intense.
 
Sophia Saifi, CNN, Islamabad.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, there is much more to come on CNN, including a look at the U.S. strategy to fight fentanyl traffickers by monitoring the digital networks and digital currency they use in their illicit trade.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:30:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. Social media influencer Kai Cenat is facing charges of inciting a riot and unlawful assembly after he drew thousands of his followers to an event in New York City with promises of a giveaway, including PlayStations and computers. Dozens of people were arrested, while many police officers were injured. CNN's Polo Sandoval reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  New York City officials investigating Friday's incident after an unlawful assembly here in the heart of Manhattan quickly spiraled into an out-of-control mob as, initially the NYPD says, hundreds of young of people which later turned in to be -- turned up to be thousands of them were drawn here by a popular social media influencer with promises of free video games and other free items.
 
Over the weekend though, the cleanup does continue with power washing crews, trying to remove some of the paint splattering you see. That mob actually tore down that temporary fencing at a construction site, some of the materials, some of the equipment at the site used during the incident. We understand three officers and four civilians were hurt. About half of the roughly 65 people who were arrested are juveniles.
 
On Saturday, we heard from New York City Mayor Eric Adams, as he offered new information on what may have led to Friday's -- led to Friday afternoon's incident, and also addressed the police response.
 
MAYOR ERIC ADAMS, NEW YORK CITY:  We believe there were some outsider influencers that may have attempted to aggravate the situation. And I cannot say enough about the police department yesterday. I don't think people realized the level of discipline that was showed to take a very dangerous, volatile situation, and to be able to bring it to a level of resolve without any loss of life, any substantial damage to property, and without young people harming themselves.
 
SANDOVAL:  As for the social media influencer at the center of it all, he's expected to return to court on August 18th after being charged with inciting a riot and unlawful assembly.
 
Polo Sandoval, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, New York City police have charged a 17-year-old with a hate crime in the stabbing death of a professional dancer, O'Shae Sibley. The 28-year-old professional dancer was attacked at a Brooklyn gas station after dancing to a Beyonce song. The NYPD announced the charges at a news conference Saturday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSEPH KENNY, NYPD ASSISTANT CHIEF, DETECTIVE BUREAU:  The suspect is identified as a male, 17 years of age. He resides in Brooklyn and he attends a nearby high school. Members of the NYPD Fugitive Enforcement Unit and the U.S. Marshals Regional Fugitive Task Force were assigned with the task of locating and apprehending this individual. Their efforts led to his apprehension yesterday. He has been charged with murder two and that is being charged hate crime and criminal possession of a weapon. He has been remanded.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, it's not yet clear if the teenage suspect will be charged as an adult.
 
The U.S. government is stepping up efforts to crack down on some of the most dangerous Mexican drug cartels by tracing cryptocurrency payments. The digital currency is widely used among fentanyl traffickers, as well as Chinese chemical companies.
 
CNN's Cybersecurity Reporter Sean Lyngaas explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEAN LYNGAAS, CNN CYBERSECURITY REPORTER:  The drug war has gone virtual. Mexican cartels are increasingly using cryptocurrency to pay for fentanyl ingredients and smuggle them into the U.S. as part of the deadly drug trade.
 
How is the Biden administration responding? There's an ongoing surge involving multiple agencies where they're furiously trying to trace the source of this funding and intercept the funds where they can. The DEA told CNN it has identified senior money launders within the cartels who specialize in cryptocurrency. The IRS, the Internal Revenue Service, for its part has some of its best agents trying to infiltrate dark web forums where the drugs are bought. It's very much an ongoing process and progress couldn't come soon enough as tens of thousands of Americans die from drug overdoses every year, much of it from fentanyl.
 
I'm Sean Lyngaas in Washington.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, after the break, rebuilding from the rubble. We'll introduce you to a Turkish family working to restore the family business six months after a huge earthquake devastated their city.
 
And there are mixed feelings in Japan about the Hollywood blockbuster "Oppenheimer", as the victims of Hiroshima are remembered 78 years on.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. It's been six months since an enormous earthquake struck near the Turkish-Syrian border. The quake and its powerful aftershocks killed tens of thousands of people and left cities in ruins. Well, now survivors are looking to rebuild their homes and their livelihoods.
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh reports on one group trying to resurrect a traditional family business.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  This is Antakya, Turkey, just a few months ago, an ancient city largely reduced to rubble by a deadly earthquake that took over 50,000 lives. Entire neighborhoods had been flattened and survivors described the scene as a war zone, even apocalyptic. But now, some who survived are rebuilding their lives. Like this family business restarting silk production at their cooperative workshop in the city.
 
FIKRET DUMAN, SILK PRODUCER (through translator):  When you listen carefully, they produce an orchestral symphony. The most beautiful music in the world.
 
KARADSHEH (voiceover):  The Dumans produce and weave silk using traditional cruelty free practices, an ancient trade in Turkey. When the earthquake hit, their building became a shelter for about a hundred people, and the family focused on helping their community.
 
EMEL DUMAN, SILK PRODUCER (through translator):  After the earthquake, for two months, we couldn't think about ourselves at all. All we could think about was how to help others, that we were alive, and that it was our duty.
 
KARADSHEH (voiceover):  Finally, the Dumans are starting their business back up. Before the earthquake, they had 70 employees, mainly women. But only a handful have come back. Now, the Dumans are employing Syrian refugees to kick start production.
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
DUMAN (through translator):  We're struggling to get the women back into production, to get the weavers back. It's hard to get back into production, but we're doing everything we can to get there. And we're trying to motivate ourselves to keep going.
 
KARADSHEH (voiceover):  The families named their product, The Peace Silk of Hatay Province. While industrial silk production boils the cocoon to kill the warm, the family's workshop allows them to live into adulthood and become moths. They breed their own worms instead of importing them in order to preserve the biodiversity of Turkey's native species.
 
DUMAN (through translator):  Our elders who wasted nothing and respected nature used these cocoon remains to make clothes and sheets. So, I said to myself that I should also produce in this way, without harming the silk worms, by letting them become butterflies.
 
KARADSHEH (voiceover):  After a painful tragedy, the family is weaving new bonds of peace with their craft and within their community.
 
Jomana Kardashev, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, today marks 78 years since the United States carried out the world's first atomic bombing on Hiroshima during World War II. The annual remembrance ceremony was held at Hiroshima's Peace Memorial Park on Saturday. The people including children, remembering the 70,000 people who died from the initial blast and the approximately 70,000 others who lost their lives from radiation exposure years later. Well, the movie "Oppenheimer" about the scientist who developed the bomb is a blockbuster hit in the U.S. But as our Michael Holmes reports, many Japanese say they have no interest in Hollywood's take on the dawn of the atomic era.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL NEWS ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  In Japan, this was one of the only structures still standing in Hiroshima after the United States dropped an atomic bomb on the city 78 years ago. A second bombing, this time on Nagasaki, followed three days later. The attacks ended World War II, a global conflict in which tens of millions of people died and the price to end it would be even more lives.
 
CILLIAN MURPHY, ACTOR, "OPPENHEIMER":  This is a national emergency.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  Sunday is the anniversary of the attack on Hiroshima, but it's the mastermind behind the creation of that infamous weapon of war, the physicist, J. Robert Oppenheimer, and the biopic detailing how he and his team designed and developed the atomic bomb that's captivating audiences.
 
"Oppenheimer" is packing theaters and getting rave reviews in the U.S., but some critics say something is missing. The film focuses on the scientist's own inner anguish after the bombings and doesn't delve into the horrific consequences in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but those memories are still palpable in Japan.
 
In Hiroshima, an estimated 140,000 people died, either directly or indirectly from the blast. A second atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki killed up to 80,000 people. And out of respect for them, some people say they don't want to see the movie even though it's not being released in Japan yet.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  There are still victims and bereaved families around, so I think it's possible for the film not to be shown out of consideration for those people's feelings.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  Others say, they're curious about it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  I definitely want to see it. I'm really interested in what kind of things are included from the American point of view.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  But beyond the film itself, it's the buzz over "Oppenheimer" and another summer hit movie "Barbie" that's causing a lot of anger in Japan. The films were released on the same day in much of the world, and fans created memes under the hashtag "Barbenheimer", but some have shown images that many Japanese find offensive like pink mushroom clouds.
 
Even the Warner Brothers Film Group which is owned by CNN's parent company, apologized over what it described as insensitive social media engagement. So far, there is no scheduled release date for "Oppenheimer" in Japan, but some people believe it is important to see it as it's part of the country's history and better for younger generations to learn about it and never forget the horrors of nuclear war.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  78 years went by and people are starting to forget. So, it's a good moment to make a movie and remind us about what happened. I think that's good.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  Michael Holmes, CNN.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, still ahead on "CNN Newsroom". Team USA face a big test in their third quest for a third-straight World Cup title. We'll have a preview of their highly anticipated match against Sweden when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
KINKADE:  Welcome back. Sunday at the Women's World Cup kicked off with another strong performance by the Netherlands. The Dutch controlling play from the get-go against South Africa, scoring in the ninth minute before adding an insurance goal just past the hour mark to win two-nil. They will face Spain in the quarter finals. And perhaps the most anticipated match today in round 16 is just minutes away from starting. The United States against Sweden.
 
CNN's world sports Carolyn Manno joins us up bright and early, it's not so bright just yet for a watch party in New York City. Carolyn, let's just start with the expectations for the American team. Certainly, a far cry from when the tournament began.
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT:  Hi, Lynda. It's great to be you this early.
 
The expectations are sky high. The pressure is mounting and has been, over the last few days, leading into these match-up. These two teams are very familiar with one another. They've met each other 10 times on major international stages, and Sweden has had their number in the past. So, if there was a heated rival in the sport, this is it, and the United States women know that.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
I can tell you being at Legend's Sports Bar in Midtown, in New York City, anticipation is very high here as well. People have just started to trickle in over the last 15 minutes. Some a little bit bleary-eyed, maybe just waking up. Others have been awake over the last couple of hours, but it should be a very exciting atmosphere here for a match that could really go either way with just how well-suited these two are against one another.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, these, certainly, Carolyn, must be some dedicated fans behind you. And as you say, no doubt, more will arrive in the coming minutes. Just give us a sense of the U.S. and Sweden's history, because the last time they played, right, it was 2021, the U.S. lost three-nil. But of course, the U.S. has won the last two World Cups. Can they go all the way again this time?
 
MANNO:  They certainly can. You know, the question is, will they? Sweden is a very physically imposing side. They are brilliant out of set pieces. And both of these teams are really similar. They both have forwards that can make things happen. They both have very dynamic midfielders. The United States is making some changes in terms of their formation. They've got a couple of key players that are sidelined. But this is really a moment for the young women on the United States roster to step up. I want to play for you a little bit of the United States women had to say ahead of this meeting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALEX MORGAN, 2-TIME WOMEN'S WORLD CUP CHAMPION:  What's happened against Sweden in the past is in the past. We obviously take away a lot of things in terms of their playing style and how to break them down, but I don't think that there's any -- I don't think there's any feelings towards the games that we've played them in the past bringing into this game tomorrow.
 
VLATKO ANDONOVSKI, USWNT HEAD COACH:  We want to blow every team out to five goals. Who doesn't want to do that, right? But those results are gone. I mean, that -- you -- they're not going to happen. For everybody that wants to see more, we promise that we're going to do everything we can, and we're preparing ourselves as best as we can to provide success and meet the expectations for everyone.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO:  And Lynda, the U.S. women have tried to remain somewhat insulated over the course of the tournament, maybe not paying as much attention to what's happening outside of that bubble. But they know what's at stake. They know how talented of a side Sweden is. They know that the expectations and the pressures are there. Now, it is time to step into that moment and we'll see if they will in just a couple of minutes.
 
KINKADE:  Yes, no doubt. Many people still at homes around the country, tuning in and cheering them on. Carolyn Manno, good to have you there at the Legends Sports Bar in Midtown Manhattan. We will check in with you next hour once the game gets underway.
 
Well, after two years away from competition, seven-time Olympic medalist Simone Biles triumphantly returned Saturday. And just like that, she won. At the Core Hydration Classic outside Chicago, the 26- year-old U.S. star won the all-around and the floor routine and the balance beam, and placed third on the uneven bars as the sell-out crowd cheered her on. CNN's Isabel Rosales reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  We're just under one year away from the opening ceremony of the 2024 Paris Olympics, time flies here. And seven-time Olympic medalist Simone Biles is back. The excitement, not just from the fans, but from fellow athletes is tangible here at NOW Arena. Certainly, her little girl screaming all day long here, just waiting, waiting on Simone.
 
And folks are so excited, in fact, that they sold out every single seat, 7,200 of them. All of them here to witness the greatest of all time back in action. And this meet is so important because it is the last chance to qualify for the U.S. nationals in San Jose, and then later on in the fall for the world championships, and all of that leading, of course, to the Olympics.
 
Biles has been registered for all four events. And people keeping a close eye on how she does after this two-year hiatus. And that's the last time we saw Simone Biles compete was in Tokyo, where she shocked the world by withdrawing from all of her events after suffering from the twisties, that's a spatial and a mental block that gymnasts can suffer from where they can't tell what's up and what's down when they're flipping in midair. So, certainly, problematic for an elite gymnast. She, after Tokyo -- after the Tokyo games disappeared from competitive gymnastic. Now, so many people are excited to see her back.
 
And what does your shirt say?
 
CROWD:  Simone freaking Biles.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The courage and the role model to come out and say, no, my mental health is more important. Physical health is more important. Because of the twisties she could have gotten paralyzed, let's be honest. I was so proud of her.
 
ROSALES:  When you heard that Simone was coming back to the world of gymnastics, oh, my gosh, what did you think?
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  When we heard Simone was coming back, she started screaming and went crazy. She's like, mom, please get tickets. Please, please, please, get tickets.
 
ROSALES:  And CNN spoke with Joan Ryan, she is an author and also a sports analyst. And she says that Simone, competing again is proof that there's a positive change in the world of gymnastics, that this whole idea that you have to be a pre-pubescent teen to succeed at this level, that is just not reality. Biles, 26 years old, recently married, and now getting back on the mat again.
 
Isabel Rosales, CNN, Hoffman Estates, Illinois.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE:  Well, finally, a gift that grew out of an enduring love. A Kansas farmer wasn't content to give his wife of 50 years a bouquet of flowers. He came up with something much more elaborate. Have a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) KINKADE (voiceover):  Fields of gold, as far as the eye can see, sunflowers. Farmer Lee Wilson in Kansas says he was looking for a grand gesture to express his feelings for his wife of 50 years. But for this anniversary, a bouquet of roses just would not cut it.
 
LEE WILSON, FARMER:  We're celebrating our 50th wedding anniversary, August 10th. And, you know, what's a guy get his gal on their 50th? And I put a lot of thought into it and she always liked sunflowers.
 
KINKADE (voiceover):  So, Wilson planted 80 acres of sunflower seeds, that's more than 32 hectares of the bright, cheery blooms. He says his son helped him secretly plant a back field last May. A labor of love which produced about 1.2 million flowers.
 
RENEE WILSON, FARMER'S WIFE:  It made me feel very special and it's -- it couldn't have been a more perfect anniversary gift than a field of sunflowers.
 
KINKADE (voiceover):  The moral of this love story, some white knights wear jeans and a checkered shirt. And romance can still blossom even after decades of marriage if the roots run deep enough.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE (on camera):  And a very happy anniversary to those two lovelets (ph).
 
Well, I'm Lynda Kinkade. I'll be back with much more "CNN Newsroom" in just a moment. Don't go anywhere.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:00:00]