Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Rep. Carlos Gimenez (R-FL) Discusses Biden Calling Xi Jinping A Dictator Amid Tense U.S.-China Relations, China In Negotiations To Build Military Training Facility In Cuba; Update From Company Helping In Sub Search; Coast Guard: This Is A Search & Rescue Mission 100%. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired June 21, 2023 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:30:00]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: That is what is a great embarrassment for dictators, when they don't know what happened." 
 
Today, no effort by the White House to take the comments back as Beijing angrily rebukes them. Perhaps not unrelated, Chinese sent an aircraft carrier through the China Strait today. 
 
Let's discuss with a member of the Select Committee on China, Republican Congressman Carlos Gimenez, of Florida, who actually just stepped out of a hearing on military spending to join us. 
 
Congressman, thank you for sharing part of your afternoon with us. 
 
Do you agree with President Biden's view that Xi Jinping is a dictator? 
 
REP. CARLOS GIMENEZ (R-FL): Absolutely. Xi Jinping is a dictator. He is probably the most powerful leader, president, dictator that China's had since Mao. Some people say he has more power than Mao. 
 
SANCHEZ: You have been outspoken about a more aggressive posture by the United States toward China, very critical of Secretary Antony Blinken and his recent visit there. 
 
I'm wondering if you're concerned that a more aggressive posture by the United States may close the door to diplomacy. 
 
GIMENEZ: Well, look, the way to achieve peace is through strength. And when I say more aggressive posture, I think we need to beef up our defenses and that's what we're doing today with the NDAA on a bipartisan level. 
 
We also need to be frank that every single dollar that we send to China is a dollar that's going to be used against U.S. interests. I believe we need to be more aggressive in decoupling economically from China and stop helping China becoming a more increasing threat to the United States. 
 
And so that's what I'm saying, that's why I'll be more aggressive, be more aggressive on our posture. Economically, militarily, no. Militarily is deterrence. Militarily is we need to be so strong that China dare not ever do something against us. 
 
SANCHEZ: I want to dig into the question of deterrence specifically on a place that carries some emotional significance to both of us and that is Cuba. Because China is expanding its military activities there, just 90 miles from your district. 
 
What can the United States military do to deter the installation of a new training facility for the officials in Cuba by China and a reported spy base there as well? 
 
GIMENEZ: Well, look, Cuba is our biggest adversary in this hemisphere. It's no secret. And it should come as no surprise that China, who is becoming our biggest adversary on the world stage, are actually joining forces. 
 
So when they said it was a spy base there, it was no surprise to me. When they say they're going to have closer ties militarily, that comes as no surprise either as Cuba now tries to get closer to what it will consider its dominant partner, which will be China. 
 
We need to make sure the sanctions -- strengthen our sanctions against Cuba, that their actions will have negative consequences on that regime. 
 
Unfortunately, what's happened way too often is when somebody makes this kind of move against us, we try to soften them up by, you know, easing up on sanctions, which never works really. 
 
The only thing that the Cubans, the Chinese, the Russians will understand is strength. It doesn't necessarily have to be kinetic. It doesn't have to come to blows. But it's strength. 
 
So the United States needs to show more strength in its relations with Cuba and more strength in its relations with China. 
 
SANCHEZ: On this topic, Congressman, I have a question about the 2024 election and your preferred candidate, Donald Trump. I want to play sound for you and our viewers. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I had a great relationship with President Xi. After Covid came in, I sort of didn't want the relationship and I sort of ended the relationship, after having made one of the greatest trade deals ever made --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: That was from a conversation former President Trump had with FOX News this week. Trump has praised Xi Jinping multiple times, Congressman, even as Covid-19 was spreading in the United States.
 
Former President Trump has not come out and said that he supports Taiwan independence. Is he really the best Republican candidate to take on Xi Jinping? GIMENEZ: Yes, I think he is because the trade deals that he
 
 renegotiated, the tariffs that he imposed on Chinese goods went a long way for us to start the decoupling from China. 
 
I also --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SANCHEZ: Respectfully, I have to interrupt you.
 
Because right now, we're awaiting a press conference from Horizon Maritime, one of the companies assisting in the search for the missing submarine in the Atlantic. 
 
Let's listen. 
 
SEAN LEET, CHAIRMAN &amp; MANAGING DIRECTOR, HORIZON MARITIME SERVICES: with me today is the Chief Misel Joe, the Saqamaw administrative chief of the Miawpukek First Nation. 
 
We are partners in the joint venture that owns the "Polar Prince." The "Polar Prince" is a support vessel for the Oceangate expedition and is on scene and supporting the rescue mission as directed by the U.S. Coast Guard and Oceangate. 
 <br>[14:35:07]
 
Today is National Indigenous Peoples Day in Canada. 
 
Chief Joe, we acknowledge that day for you and Miawpukek First Nation and all the first peoples in Newfoundland and in Labrador and in Canada. 
 
On behalf of myself, Chief Joe and everyone at the Miawpukek Maritime Services and Horizon Maritime Services, I want to say first that our thoughts and focus remain with the crew of the "Titan" and their families. 
 
We wish to thank everyone involved in this rescue mission, especially the U.S. and Canadian Coast Guards, the organizations that have made the Marine assets available, including the French government, Atlantic Towing.
 
And the many private companies that have dropped everything at a moment's notice, and without hesitation, and the various crews dedicated to bringing the search-and-rescue mission to a successful conclusion. 
 
In addition to the "Polar Prince," we have also mobilized the "Horizon Arctic" to provides vessel support for this mission. 
 
We acknowledge and thank our client, ExxonMobil, who has, without question, given the vessel the time and space needed to respond to this incident. 
 
We also thank Premier Andrew Furey for his continuous offers of support from Newfoundland and Labrador.
 
The marine industry in this region is no stranger to responding to difficult incidents. We work together to ensure every possible effort is put into bringing people home. 
 
The people on board the "Titan" and their families are our focus. We care deeply about their wellbeing. 
 
All of us here in Newfoundland, Labrador, Canada and the United States and around the world are united in this work.
 
While the United States Coast Guard, in cooperation with the Canadian Coast Guard, is leading the search-and-rescue effort, our critical role remains in a support capacity. 
 
It has been a very difficult few days for the crew and families of those on board the "Titan" and the "Polar Prince." They have been steadfast in providing support. We have been supporting the "Titanic" expedition for several years. 
 
The "Polar Prince" remains at the site. The vessel is an iconic former Canadian Coast Guard icebreaker that has been updated with advance technology, provides research and expeditions, primarily in the Arctic. 
 
The "Horizon Arctic" is also involved in this mission. The 94-meter vessel is one of the most powerful and versatile offshore support vessels in the world, often working internationally.
 
This Canadian vessel has performed rig moves, offshore wind infrastructure, installations and seabed surveys before returning to Newfoundland and Labrador for a seasonal project this summer. 
 
The "Horizon Arctic" was on route to the site on Sunday and returned to Port St. Johns to pick up deepwater equipment. Late last night, the Arctic crew loaded the U.S. ROV, which, thanks to the U.S. military, arrived by air at St. Johns Airport late yesterday.
 
The vessel departed the port of St. Johns at 5 a.m. this morning and will arrive at the "Titanic" site tomorrow morning. 
 
We are very aware of the time sensitivity around this mission. Our crews and on-shore teams are experts in their fields and will continue to support this effort in any way we can. 
 
We remain focused on contributing to the search for "Titan," crew, and continue to hold out hope that they will be located and brought home safely.
 
Chief Joe? 
 
MISEL JOE, SAQAMAW ADMINISTRATIVE CHIEF, MIAWPUKEK FIRST NATION: Thank you, Sean. 
 
Thank you all for being here. 
 
My name is Chief Misel Joe. I'm from the Maiwpukek First Nation.
 
I can tell you that our people are very concerned for the crew of the "Titan." We are proud of the "Polar Prince," its crew, the work they have done and does. This remarkable vessel who have no doubt that they have been helping throughout this difficult time. 
 
I also want to thank Sean and his support team here at Horizon for all they're doing to support the search-and-rescue operations. 
 
I've been in constant contact with the operation team that the company had been reaching out to prayer groups across the country to bring the hope for this effort. 
 
We are praying for our friends on board the "Titan" submersible. We want them to come home. We want them to come home. And we want them to come home safely. 
 
We ask everyone across Canada and the world to pray with us that we can find and rescue the "Titan." 
 
Thank you. (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
(CROSSTALK)
 <br>[14:40:03]
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: The "Polar Prince," are they picking up any sign of life? What about the banging? Has the "Polar Prince" heard anything? 
 
LEET: So the U.S. Coast Guard's leading the search-and-rescue effort, as you know. We're taking our direction from them and all the communications are flowing back through them. 
 
They had a fairly in-depth conference about an hour and a half ago and they've covered all that so we have nothing further to add. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: What are the conditions out there? 
 
LEET: The north Atlantic is always a challenging place, especially in the region that we're in. The weather is not overly significant at this point, but it always presents a challenge in the region. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE QUESTION) 
 
LEET: The equipment that's been mobilized for this is the finest in the world. The most capable in the world. 
 
We have to hold out hope. I think as you're aware, there's still life support available on the submersible and we'll continue to hold out hope until the very end. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE QUESTION) 
 
LEET: All I can tell you there is all protocols were followed for the mission. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Can you tell us about your staff on the ship? What are they telling you? What is it like out there? What's the mood on the ship? Any of that that you can provide us? 
 
LEET: These are extremely professional and experienced crews. This is an unprecedented situation, but I can assure you they're handling their responsibilities very professionally and fully focused on finding the submersible and bring them back safely. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Did any family members go out on the vessel? 
 
LEET: That's a question I can't answer. 
 
The U.S. Coast Guard is leading the search-and-rescue effort and all of that is being funneled through the U.S. Coast Guard. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE) I think this community, this exploration, they've been here for many years, their friends and family. What is this one situation like? 
 
LEET: Core values of the Maiwpukek Maritime Services and Horizon Maritime Services is customer focused. And we're focused on all our customers and all the various missions we operate and making sure they're carried out with the utmost safety. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Is there anything out there that's capable of lifting this thing up from the depths and bringing it back to the surface? 
 
LEET: There's a lot of variability around the question you're asking there. But the equipment that is on site and coming to site is the most capable in the world. Some of that equipment is certainly capable of reaching those depths. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: How much time do you think is left -- (INAUDIBLE) 
 
LEET: There's variability around that question as well, Patrick. It's difficult to -- for me to give you any more detail than the U.S. Coast Guard has provided in their briefings. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Can you tell me what time -- (INAUDIBLE) 
 
LEET: I don't have that off the top of my head. I'm sorry. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE QUESTION) LEET: Yes, I've been in the marine industry and I've never seen
 
 equipment of that nature move that quickly, the response from the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. military, the folks at the airport, the people here. Various companies were involved in the mobilization of that equipment to the Arctic. It was done flawlessly. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Can you give us -- (INAUDIBLE) 
 
LEET: It's a deepwater O.V. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE QUESTION) 
 
LEET: How long can it stay out? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: How long will it stay out? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE QUESTION)
 <br>[14:45:57]
 
LEET: It will stay out until the search is completed. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Can you talk about what, if any, communication -- (INAUDIBLE) 
 
LEET: There was regular communications up until a point. And then I think, as you're aware, communications ceased. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: Can you just expand on what "regular" means. Was there any moment that they communicated -- (INAUDIBLE) 
 
LEET: I'm not aware of any details around that. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: At what point did communications cease? 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE QUESTION) 
 
LEET: Look, Oceangate runs an extremely safe operation. Our full focus right now is getting that submersible located and getting those people brought back safely. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: At what point did communications cease? 
 
LEET: When they were diving to the "Titanic." 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: But do you have a timeline on that? 
 
LEET: There is a timeline. I don't know have it at the top of my head. 
 
OK, that's it. Thank you. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE QUESTION)
 
LEET: We're in constant contact with the crew of the "Polar Prince." Our emergency procedures kicked in immediately. Our emergency room next door is staffed 24/7 with a group of extremely capable people and there's live communication with the vessel at all times. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: (INAUDIBLE QUESTION) 
 
LEET: We've got 17 crew on board the ship. 
 
That's it. Thanks. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you. 
 
KEILAR: All right, so you're listening here to representatives from the company for the vessel that is really the mothership of the "Titan," of this submersible, it is the "Polar Prince." That was the ship that the Titan launched from.
 
They are now involved, the "Polar Prince" is, with this search-and- rescue operation along with another ship, the "Horizon Arctic." 
 
And Miguel Marquez is joining me from Newfoundland where we just saw that press conference. 
 
We just heard the representatives of Horizon Maritime, talking about how this "Horizon Arctic" vessel, Miguel, took a U.S. ROV, a remote- controlled operated vehicle, at 5 a.m. this morning and that it is headed now to the "Titanic" site. 
 
But that's quite a journey getting there tomorrow as time is running out, quite frankly, Miguel. 
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it takes a long time to get there from here. We're about 260 miles from the site where the "Titanic" went down and that's how long it takes. 
 
There were three U.S. military planes, C-17s, very big U.S. military transport planes at the airport here in St. John's. They moved all of that gear to the "Horizon Arctic" that was ported here yesterday. 
 
You could see workers in there loading generators, loading gear all day, welding, putting on beams at the back of the "Horizon Arctic" to clearly launch something off of it. 
 
Now we know and we had understood that there was an ROV, a very specialized deepwater remote-operated vehicle on those C-17s. But they just have a massive amount of gear. 
 
The "Horizon Arctic" is on its way out. Another Coast Guard ship from Canada is on its way out. And there's a couple of other ships on the way. 
 
In all, they're going to have about 10 ships in that area doing everything from sonar sweeps to being prepared for any sort of health emergencies that, if they are found alive, that they would be able to help out, like a decompression chamber if needed, a mobile decompression chamber.
 
And the planes as well, searching from the air, dropping the buoys, hoping they can find -- every tiny sliver gives them hope. 
 
If they can figure out what those noises are and figure out where they're coming from, maybe, maybe, maybe they can find the crew of the "Titan" and bring them home safely -- Brianna? 
 
KEILAR: Because, at this point, they have not, Miguel, located them. We did just hear they have equipment that can reach the depth of the "Titanic," right? 
 
But what is really outstanding at this point in time and this is what we've been hearing from the U.S. Coast Guard is they do not know the situation. They don't know, obviously, where the "Titan" is. 
 
And what we've been hearing from experts is it's possible that it could be on the ocean floor. There could be an issue with it being mired in mud or silt. Is it entangled with something with the "Titanic." 
 <br>[14:50:09]
 
These are questions that, quite frankly, rescuers just don't have the answers to. 
 
MARQUEZ: They don't. And that is what they are desperately trying to figure out. That is what they are trying to figure out. 
 
In some ways, you would expect this craft, the "Titan," would have a rescue buoy, some sort of signal, a ping, sending out at regular times so that rescuers could find it if it got into difficulty. 
 
It does not appear -- either it doesn't have it or it is not working. Maybe there was a catastrophic failure on the submersible. 
 
But now they are going to every single scrap of sound that they can hear in the ocean for that area. 
 
And remember, there are fishing boats, there are cargo ships, all sorts of activity in that area, many, many boats in that area, and also natural sounds that can be mistaken for manmade sounds. 
 
So they have very sophisticated gear trying to find it. Once they find it, then they have to confirm it is there. They have to figure out how they will get it up. 
 
And then they do have gear to lower down into the ocean and lift it up, basically give it a tow from two and a half miles down. But all of that takes time, which there is precious little of -- Brianna? 
 
KEILAR: I did think, Miguel, it was interesting to hear Sean Leet, co- founder and chairman of Horizon Maritime, talking about that he spent almost his whole life in the maritime industry.
 
And he, there in Newfoundland, has been watching the launch of this rescue attempt and all of the resources going out there to the "Titanic" wreckage area in the north Atlantic. 
 
He said he has never seen anything like that, he's never seen something move this quickly. 
 
MARQUEZ: It is impressive to see. In port, at least until the two ships left, you could tell it was palpable the sense that those C-17s were on the ground at the airport here, they were prepping the ship here, they were moving it out. 
 
The Coast Guard vehicle ship left earlier today as well. You could sense the urgency in the actions that were happening here.
 
The P-3s, Poseidon planes, that are usually sub hunters listening, trying to pick something up, they are on back-to-back rotations, as well as C-130s looking at the surface. 
 
It is possible that this sub is at the surface somewhere and just bobbing along. 
 
But keep in mind, these individuals, because of the design of the sub. They are bolted in, so even if they're on the surface, they would need to be rescued on the surface if they have no way to signal where exactly they are. 
 
So just a massive effort from the U.S., from Canada. The French government sending resources now. 
 
It is just -- everybody has a sense of the time here. And while they are focused on the oxygen and that, it is my sense, given the way people are behaving here, they are not going to stop until they find this thing. 
 
And they seem to have full confidence that they have so much gear out there, that, at some point, they will find it. And hopefully, it is a happy ending -- Brianna? 
 
KEILAR: Yes, a lot of gear to get to those really unbelievable depths, almost two and a half miles down to the "Titanic" wreckage. 
 
Miguel, thank you for that report from St. Johns Harbor in Newfoundland with the very latest. 
 
Jim?
 
SCIUTTO: Now to some of the other headlines we're watching this hour. 
 
The Federal Reserve remains, quote, "very far" from its inflation target. More interest rate hikes likely, they say. That is just some of what Fed Chair Jerome Powell told lawmakers on Capitol Hill today. 
 
His testimony comes one week after the Fed voted to keep interest rates steady for the first time in 15 months. 
 
Meanwhile, the Federal Trade Commission is announcing a new lawsuit against Amazon. Accusing Amazon of duping customers for signing up to Amazon Prime and then intentionally making it hard to cancel. 
 <br>[14:54:04] It's the most aggressive action against Amazon by Biden's FTC chair, Lina Khan, who had promised to rein in online tech giants. We'll have much more when CNN NEWS CENTRAL returns. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: Brand new details from the Coast Guard on the search for a missing sub. Officials saying a banging noise was detected again this morning as they hold out hope of finding the five people on board alive. If so, they could have just 14 hours of air left. 
 
SANCHEZ: Plus, the Air National Guardsman accused of posting highly classified government secrets on social media is back in court today, his first appearance since being formally indicted last week. 
 <br>[14:59:59]
 
SCIUTTO: And new DNA results have just been released in the case of four murdered University of Idaho students. What investigators say they found.