Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Aspartame Could be Carcinogenic to Humans; GOP Rep. Refers to Colored People on the House Floor; Actors Join Writers in Strike; Texas Police Sergeant Receives Medal of Valor. Aired 6:30-7a ET

Aired July 14, 2023 - 06:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:32:23] 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR: Well, this morning, there's some potentially worrying news for diet soda drinkers. Emphasis on potential. The World Health Organization has determined that one of the commonly used artificial sweeteners, aspartame, should be put in what it describes as the, quote, possibly carcinogenic to humans category. Aspartame is, of course, found in many products ranging from sugar-free gum to diet sodas. A can of diet soda can typically have about 100 milligrams of aspartame - there we go, can of diet soda - of aspartame. And under the WHO guidelines, someone weighing 184 pounds could safely drink up to 33 cans of diet soda a day before breaking the safety threshold. 
 
Sounds like a bad idea. 
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR: That's a lot.
 
MATTINGLY: That's a lot. You can count them. So, CNN medical correspondent Meg Tirrell is going to tell us, should you be drinking 30 - no, can we have a reality check here? I mean we still actually -- the graphic's really helpful. You realize how much would be necessary to hit the threshold. 
 
Do people need to be changing how much aspartame they're consuming based on what was released yesterday?
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Phil, so not based on this. That is from the WHO itself actually. And so aspartame, of course, we know, very common sweetener used in thousands of different products from diet sodas, like the 33 you just saw on the screen, things like table top sweeteners, breakfast cereal, chewing gum, even, you know, medicines like cough drops or chewable vitamins. This is in a lot of different things. 
 
And so the WHO took a look at this. This has been a decades' long sort of project that scientists have been looking at. And that Dr. Francesco Branca, the director of the Department of Nutrition and Food Safety at the WHO said about this review is that, quote, while safety is not a major concern at the doses which are commonly used, potential effects have been describe that need to be investigated by more and better studies.
 
And so they are saying they want to see more studies of whether there is a potential cancer risk here, but they are not changing any of their guidelines based on this. And essentially they're putting it in the third of four categories of potential cancer risk. Other things in this category include things like aloe vera, occupational exposure to dry cleaning, gasoline engine exhaust and traditional Asian pickled vegetables. 
 
And so, you know, with the limit, they are actually -- a second group came out and said, we're not changing the limit of what we're saying is the safe level to aspartame to consume per day. And under those calculations that you did, it amounts to about 33 cans based on what the industry tells us is the amount of aspartame in those cans.
 
BROWN: Which is a lot. So what has been the reaction to this? And is the World Health Organization recommending regular soda as a potentially healthier choice? 
 
TIRRELL: They definitely aren't. They - they are not recommending soda really at all. They say there's a third option there, and it's water, and that's what they would recommend.
 <br>[06:35:01]
 
But, of course, you know, there's been a strong reaction to this, particularly from the industry. American Beverage, the industry association, tells us there's a broad consensus in the scientific and regulatory community that aspartame is safe. They say it's a conclusion that's been reached time and time again by food safety agencies around the world. 
 
So, guys, the WHO is not saying, yes, drink 33 cans of Diet Coke or diet soda every day. They actually would rather we all drink water. But right now they're not recommending any changes in the daily intake. 
 
MATTINGLY: All right, Meg Tirrell, that was actually really helpful. 
 
BROWN: Yes, it was. Thanks.
 
MATTINGLY: That was really important context, as always, from Meg. 
 
Thanks, Meg. 
 
TIRRELL: Thanks.
 
MATTINGLY: All right, the Secret Service wraps up its investigation into cocaine found at the White House, leaving some major questions unanswered. What we are now learning about other drugs found in the West Wing and at the White House. That's ahead. 
 
BROWN: Plus, the fiery exchange on the House floor that led to this response from a Democratic congresswoman. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. JOYCE BEATTY (D-OH): I find it offensive and very inappropriate. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BROWN: A heated moment on the House floor during a long debate over the defense bill, which was thrown into disarray by a series of Republican amendments targeting culture war issues, like diversity and inclusion. 
 
Watch what Republican Congressman Eli Crane said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. ELI CRANE (R-AZ): My amendment has nothing to do with whether or not colored people or black people or anybody can serve, OK? It has nothing to do with the color of your skin -
 <br>[06:40:03]
 
REP. JOYCE BEATTY (D-OH): Mr. Speaker.
 
CRANE: Your -- any of that stuff. 
 
What we want to - what we want to preserve and maintain is the fact that our military does not become a social experiment. We want the best of the best. We want to have standards that guide who -- who's in what unit, what they do. And I'm going to tell you guys right - right now, the Russians, the Chinese, the Iranians, the North Koreans, they are not - they are not doing this because they want the strongest military possible. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gentlemen -
 
CRANE: I hope my colleagues on the other side can understand what we're doing. 
 
Thank you so much. 
 
BEATTY: Mr. Speaker. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE).
 
BEATTY: Asking to be recognized to have the words "colored people" -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: For what purpose is the gentle - for what purpose does the gentle lady seek recognition? 
 
BEATTY: I'd like to be recognized to have the words "colored people" stricken from the record. I find it offensive -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Inappropriate. 
 
BEATTY: And very inappropriate. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: CNN's Laura Coates and Audie Cornish join us now. 
 
Audie, your reaction to this? 
 
AUDIE CORNISH, CNN ANCHOR AND HOST, "THE ASSIGNMENT" PODCAST: Well, this is why history is important to teach in schools. Eli Crane is just 43. He does have a very esteemed military history -- career. He does not know actually about military history because then he would know that inclusivity is a major part of its story, as it was at the forefront of integration in terms of integrating the armed services under Truman. This is very basic stuff.
 
But I think there's this concept that, again, wokeness is new, and it must be fought under any circumstances. 
 
Did I get that year right, Truman? I want to make sure. 
 
LAURA COATES, CNN CHIEF LEGAL ANALYST: Forty-eight (ph). I don't - I don't even get to that point because, when you mentioned that - this is a -- you said 43. I'm also 43 years old now. I know, I don't look it, but I'm also 43 years old. The notion that someone would think -- not know it was inappropriate to say the phrase "colored people" in the year 2023 is not a matter of history, it's a matter of the present. 
 
This is a - this is a moment when we have to take a step back and really say -- or maybe a step forward to say, somebody who is asking to represent the people of the United States, a jurisdiction in Arizona certainly, but legislation that happens really affects all of us, does not have the wherewithal to know that that is an inappropriate term to use. 
 
I'm not talking about political correctness for the sake of political correctness. I'm talking about a term that is divisive, a term that is wrought with horror, a term that is one of those concepts that shows no evolution of thought, let alone the idea that you are aware of where we are societally. It is something that should be recognized. And I'm very glad that there was a level of offense immediately taken from members of Congress. 
 
CORNISH: Asked (ph) to strike it from the record. 
 
COATES: Both who were congress people of color and those who were not who took offense because that should not be appropriate. 
 
And, you know, when he talks about and talks about other countries and what they tend to do in terms of diversity in their ranks in the military, the United States of America has far more of a race-based diversity than many of the countries he named. And so the notion that, well, why isn't the Chinese military in line with this notion of racial diversity? Why isn't Iran and other nations -- he really misses the mark. 
 
But I have to say, before I can even get to a conversation about what Eisenhower has done, this is a member of Congress. You don't know better? You don't know better now? 
 
CORNISH: But, you know, Laura, here's where I want to jump in because this is tip of the iceberg stuff in terms of the conversation about what's happening around the military. And I feel like, in conservative districts, there is a very deep concern that issues of diversity, transgender ideology, all of these things have been seized on, and they have become part of an ongoing conversation that says a multicultural society is diminishing our institutions. That is the actual line of thinking. So, when someone gets on the floor and says something like that, it's not an accident, so to speak. They are reflecting a percolating dialogue that they are bringing into the mainstream to the congressional record. 
 
MATTINGLY: Yes. I think this is a good point. People always give me a hard time because I would watch late night floor debates like this constantly because I always found that I learned a lot about the lawmakers when they didn't really think anybody was watching or they were tired and they were just going back and forth. And sometimes you don't necessarily you learn things that you want to see in your elected legislators.
 
I do want to ask you guys, Laura, the investigation into cocaine found at the White House, a small bag of cocaine. It has wrapped up. The Secret Service was unable to identify a suspect or whoever may have brought it in there. They also could not pinpoint when the substance was actually left. They found no DNA, no fingerprints. They had no surveillance footage. How does this happen at the White House? 
 
COATES: That's the huge question here, right, you know, the notion of there being some type of a blind spot in relation and in close proximity to the situation room is pretty stunning to a lot of people. We know that there have been safety risks to the White House before. 
 <br>[06:45:03]
 
Whether it's other substances that are white, that are sent to the White House, that have led to even postal workers having been killed in recent years as well. And so this is really one where we have to take stock in the security apparatus that is at the White House to ensure that for all the people who are invited in, who are coming and surround the president of the United States, it's not taken lightly.
 
But I will say, the Secret Service has likely done a phenomenal job in trying to investigate a number of issues and they've got a lot on their plate. But I am uncomfortable that this has not been solved. 
 
BROWN: Yes.
 
CORNISH: Jump in with something very different. Why not the White House? Drug abuse and addiction is something that this country is dealing with on a very large scale if you look at what they call deaths of despair under the CDC. This is some -- it's not as though this -- there are some places that are immune from the potential for drug abuse. 
 
BROWN: Right. CORNISH: And I think everyone thinks it's a little bit of a joke to
 
 talk about it when it comes to the White House or indulge in conspiracy theories. But the truth is, you can see this in many communities, whether it's your actual house or the White House. 
 
BROWN: Yes, that's a really important point. 
 
All right, Laura, Audie, thank you both. 
 
Well, Hollywood grinding to a halt. What the actors and writer strikes mean for the industry, and for audiences. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:50:09]
 
BROWN: Hollywood grinding to a halt this morning as over 150,000 members of the actors union join writers on the strike. SAG-AFTRA, the union that represents TV and film actors, formally joined the picket line early this morning after contract talks fell apart. It is the first time since 1960 that both actors and writers are on strike. 
 
Joining us now is Lisa France. She is a senior writer for CNN digital's entertainment section. 
 
Hi, Lisa, great to see you this morning. 
 
So, this is the first time SAG has had a strike in nearly 40 years. That's a long time. What happens to our TV and movies?
 
LISA FRANCE, CNN SENIOR ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Everything grounds to a halt. If it's not already in the can, no one can work on anything. You can't work on TV, you can't work on movies, unless it's an independent film that doesn't have any connection to a studio. Nobody can work. 
 
So, we're -- you know, right now is the time that if this drags on, you're going to see a lot more reality TV and game shows, things that aren't tied to acting and writing and that -- in the same way. 
 
MATTINGLY: So, Lisa, I do have to note, CNN does have some stuff in the can.
 
FRANCE: Yes.
 
MATTINGLY: And that includes some new TV coming out this week. The second episode of the original series "See It Loud: Exploring the Impact and History of Black Television." Here's a look at the new episode. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Your biggest superstars in comedy have been black. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: "The Chappelle Show" redefined sketch comedy. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: "In Living Color" set up a platform for black comedians blowing up.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: "The Richard Pryor Show" was ahead of its time. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You can watch Arsenio Hall every night.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Adele Givens, Bernie Mac, Steve Harvey. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: "Def Comedy Jam" was a black comic's paradise. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Laughter is healing. Laughter purifies the air. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: And, Lisa, why I can't wait to watch this episode is comedies really have allowed black creators the space to talk about taboo issues like race in a way that maybe they wouldn't be able to in other places, talk more honestly at - about the experience that they've had.
 
Tell us about that, why it's so important.
 
FRANCE: It's so important because historically back in the day you used to have white performers appearing in black face and they made blacks -- black people feel like in - caricatures is how they were portrayed. And so black performers actually have - been able to have the last laugh by talking about race and history and politics, and making it funny. So, if racism is the disease, then comedy is the medicine. Laughter is the best medicine, they say. And so it's been really important for black artists to be able to -- since they have not taken seriously historically and sometimes even now to be able to use comedy to have their say. 
 
BROWN: All right, Lisa France, great to see you. Thank you so much. 
 
MATTINGLY: Thank you. 
 
FRANCE: Thank you.
 
BROWN: And the next episode of the CNN original series "See It Loud: The History of Black Television," airs Sunday at 9:00 p.m. Eastern right here on CNN. 
 
MATTINGLY: Jared Kushner is the latest in former President Trump's inner circle to testify before the grand jury probe into efforts to overturn the 2020 election. The question federal prosecutors continue to ask witnesses, we're going to have that ahead.
 
And a Houston police officer awarded with the President's Medal of Valor. Incredible work he did to deserve it, coming up next. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. KENDRICK SIMPO, HOUSTON POLICE: At the end of the day I just know, hey, I did my job that day. Mission accomplished. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:56:46]
 
MATTINGLY: A police sergeant in Texas jumping into action, stopping a potential mass shooting at a mall while working a side job as a security guard, a move that may have saved a group of children getting ready to compete in a dance competition inside the building. 
 
CNN's Rosa Flores reports on how the sergeant went "Beyond the Call of Duty" to save lives. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over):  Houston Police Sergeant Kendrick Simpo recently received the President's Medal of Valor. 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think it's one of the hardest jobs in America. 
 
FLORES: The highest award the U.S. can bestow upon a public safety officer. 
 
SEN. KENDRICK SIMPO, HOUSTON POLICE: I've been with the - been employed with security with The Galleria Mall for about seven and a half years.
 
FLORES: Simpo prevented a mass shooting at the largest shopping mall in Texas while working security last year. 
 
SIMPO: This is what I signed up for. 
 
FLORES: A 14-year veteran of the Houston Police Department, Simpo says he heard over the radio that a man was inside the mall with a rifle. 
 
SIMPO: My training kicked in. You know, it was just literally nothing but the kids from the dance competition inside. 
 
FLORES: The suspect was wearing a t-shirt with "The Punisher" logo, a mask with spikes and carrying a rifle in one hand and a Bible in the other. Heavy in Simpo's mind, the children and their parents close by. So he didn't draw his weapon. 
 
SIMPO: I didn't want people to panic. And as a cop, we only have a split moment to make a decision. And you got to go with that decision. 
 
FLORES: Simpo says he ran towards the suspect full speed and tackled him. 
 
SIMPO: My thing was, grab the rifle from him. That was my main focus. I could somewhat hear people screaming. I literally - I just (INAUDIBLE). I noticed the gun that was pointing towards my leg. 
 
FLORES (on camera): You were out-gunned. 
 
SIMPO: Bringing a gun to a rifle fight, I'm already at a disadvantage. But he actually had two guns. I just pinned him up against the wall, just holding the rifle until my help came. 
 
FLORES (voice over): Police arrested Guido Herrera and recovered the rifle, a handgun, and more than 120 rounds of ammunition. Herrera was later found guilty of displaying a firearm in a public place and was sentenced to 180 days in jail, court documents show. But not a single shot was fired thanks to Sergeant Simpo. 
 
SIMPO: And I was able to actually go hands-on with him and I didn't have to fire one shot. 
 
MAYOR SYLVESTER TURNER (D), HOUSTON: It's one thing to be recognized outside of your home, but it's also important to be recognized at your home. 
 
FLORES: To honor him in Houston, Mayor Sylvester Turner proclaimed May 23rd as Sergeant Kendrick Simpo Day. 
 
TURNER: He didn't hesitate to intervene. He didn't wait on backup. Ended up saving lives of people who he did not know. But that's what heroes do every single day. 
 
FLORES (on camera): So, the president of the United States thinks you're a hero. Leadership in Houston thinks you're a hero. Do you think you're a hero? 
 
SIMPO: At the end of the day I just know, hey, I did my job that day. Mission accomplished. 
 
FLORES (voice over): Rosa Flores, CNN, Houston. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BROWN: And CNN THIS MORNING continues right now. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did Donald Trump privately admit that he lost the election? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Jared Kushner before the grand jury. 
 <br>[07:00:01]
 
Hope Hicks before the grand jury. "The New York Times" reports Jared Kushner was asked if he ever heard Trump acknowledge he lost the election. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They're trying to establish.