Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Clashes between Army, Paramilitary Group enter Third Day; Four Killed, Dozens Injured at Birthday Party; Ukraine: Russia Attacks Two Bakhmut Suburbs; What's Happening in the Dominion Lawsuit against FOX News; The Most Powerful Rocket Ever Built is about to Lift Off. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired April 17, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN HOST: Hello and welcome to CNN "Newsroom", I'm Max Foster in London. Just ahead, explosions in Sudan's capital as an escalating fight between two generals turn deadly for civilians there. A Putin critic is sentenced to 25 years in prison after he spoke out against the war in Ukraine, details in just a moment and a mass shooting at a 16th birthday party in Alabama has left a small community stumped, the latest on what we know.
 
We begin with Sudan where fighting between rival military factions is intensifying. The death toll is climbing and the international community is calling for an immediate ceasefire. Violence broke out in Khartoum on Saturday between the Sudanese Army and a powerful paramilitary group and has since spread to other parts of the country is unclear who's in control.
 
Maybe 100 people have been killed so far with hundreds more injured. CNN's Nima Elbagir joining us with the very latest we're getting very general guidance here because we're getting different messages, aren't we from the different factions?
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT: We are there has been a lot of claim and counterclaim down to who attempted to assassinate home. Really, the reality on the ground continues to shift and that makes verifying so much of this so difficult. But here's what we have been able to understand from civilians.
 
Many people, in fact, most of the capital is sheltering in place. People say that they are losing access to fresh water. Many districts have lost access to electricity and medical personnel that we're speaking to on the ground, Max, tell us that they are unable to reach the injured and in many cases are able to bury the dead.
 
It is just too unsafe. Eyewitnesses who CNN has been speaking to in and one of the leading doctor's associations in the country also tell us that hospitals are being deliberately targeted by the warring parties, which of course are in direct violation of international humanitarian law and would constitute a war crime.
 
The situation is intensifying the conflict is escalating. And it's important to remember that these two men were partners in the counter coup that subverted the Sudanese people's journey to democracy around 18 months ago. The fact that they are now allowing their rivalry to spill out into the streets and impact the lives of so many Sudanese and an untold number of dead and injured.
 
Everyone I'm speaking to in Sudan today, Max, is just absolutely terrified and absolutely heartbroken at what's happening.
 
FOSTER: Grim images and more details coming in with you. Nima will be back with you as you have more, thank you. Now it's happening again another mass shooting in the U.S. this time involving young people are shots rang out on Saturday night at a birthday party in a small Alabama town.
 
Police say 4 people were killed, and at least 28 were injured. No word yet on the shooter or any possible motive though. The community held a vigil on Sunday for the victims among them a staff football player of the local high school.
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales joins us from Dadeville, Alabama with a closer look at the story. As we hear stories of the victims, it becomes more harrowing, but we don't have any sense really yet about the motive.
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right, and that's part of the frustration, Max, from so many that I've spoken with here in the community that simply are not getting the answers that they deserve to know. They have been attuned to every press conference, waiting to hear more about the shooter or shooters, and they have no answers now more than two days since this shooting.
 
We know that out of the 28 that you mentioned that were injured from Lake Martin Community Hospital. We know that 15 of them were teenagers who were shot at least 5 of them are in critical condition. We did hear from the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency who says that they are still speaking with witnesses.
 
They are gathering information as to what happened at the sweet 16 birthday party right behind me in this dance studio. And they say that they are working methodically that they are not in a rush that they're going to do this right to ensure justice is done.
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
You mentioned the victims have been able to identify two of them. One of them is Phil Dowdell who were told had a scholarship to play football at Jacksonville State University. We spoke with his high school assistant football coach who spoke with his grandmother the day after the shooting. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL TAYLOR, ASSISTANT FOOTBALL COACH: The biggest time him or her, she doesn't understand why. Why did it happen? You know, we don't have any enemies Philstavious told me about a month ago. So -- never happened to me. Even when I go to college, take care my team. I never dreamed that he would something like this. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: And Coach Taylor there says that he is in disbelief at the news. He has known Dowdell he was nine years old called him a son. We've also been able to identify one other victim that is Keke Smith according to her cousin Amy Jackson.
 
She was a high school senior looking forward to attending the University of Alabama. She was always smiling. She was a student athletic manager at Dadeville high school's track team, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK, Isabella, thank you. -- Nationalism amongst those condemning the sentencing of a Kremlin critic calling it a chilling example of a systematic repression of civil society. Vladimir Kara- Murza was given 25 years in prison after publicly criticizing Moscow's war on Ukraine.
 
The British-Russian was on trial for criminal offenses that include treason and spreading fake news about the Russian army. Clare Sebastian monitoring the story from London and joins us now just give us the reaction to this very severe penalty.
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Max, I think a measure of the International scrutiny this case was under is that according to the press service for the Moscow court where this happened. There were 40 diplomats from 24 countries actually in the courthouse today.
 
We're hearing widespread alarm from multiple different countries. Three of those Ambassadors from the U.K. were of course, Vladimir Kara-Murza is a dual citizen from the U.S. and Canada actually spoke outside the courthouse gave their reaction. Take a listen to the U.S. Ambassador to Russia, Lynn Tracy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LYNNE TRACY, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA: Criminalization of criticism of government action is a sign of weakness, not strength. We support the right of Mr. Kara-Murza and every Russian citizen to have a voice in the direction of their country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: So the U.K. where as I mentioned, Mr. Kara-Murza, as a dual citizen says it has summoned the Russian Ambassador to London to make it very clear that they see this verdict as a violation of Russia's obligations under human rights, including the right to a fair trial.
 
A spokesperson for the German government said this shows what a shocking extent the repression has reached in Russia. And I just want to give you a little bit more from Amnesty the Russia Director for Amnesty International, saying this verdict wrongly conflates human rights activism with high treason and is reminiscent of Stalin-era repression.
 
Mr. Kara-Murza himself in his final statement before court also compared this trial to what happened under the Soviet times the trials of Soviet dissidents, he said in its secrecy, and violation of legal norms, as he saw it. They are going to appeal this case; his lawyer has confirmed the Kremlin, Max, denying commenting.
 
FOSTER: And I just want to ask you about a separate story. We talked a lot about the global food crisis, partly sparked by lack of grain leaving Ukraine, but actually, there are now a glut, at least in Europe, is that correct?
 
SEBASTIAN: Yes, we've now seen three countries, Poland, Hungary, and now this morning, Slovakia come out and say they're going to ban imports into their countries of Ukrainian grain. They say because, as you say, there's a go out of grain in their countries, and that is really affecting prices, and therefore the livelihoods of their farmers.
 
This all stems, Max, from a decision by the EU at the beginning of this conflict to remove duties from exports of Ukrainian grain into Europe. That was because of the blockade of those black sea ports. It was designed to let Ukrainian grain flow more freely onto global markets.
 
What has actually happened is a lot of that grain has stayed in Europe, as I said, pushing down prices. Now the EU has called this what it says unilateral action on trade unacceptable. It says it's asking for more information on those countries. But clearly this is an example of a sort of a byproduct of a policy put in at the beginning of this war.
 
That perhaps wasn't done in the expectation that the war would go on for as long as it has something now that the EU clearly has to look into further, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK, Clare Sebastian, thank you. Well, the battlefield itself Ukraine is reporting intense new fighting around the City of Bakhmut. The General Staff of Ukraine's Military said Russia launched a series of unsuccessful attacks on to Bakhmut suburbs.
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
The move may suggest an attempt by Moscow to encircle Ukrainian soldiers within the city. Let's get the very latest from the front lines. Ben Wedeman is in Eastern Ukraine, Ben.
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, well, for quite some time now the Russians have essentially circled the city on three sides and they're trying to close a pincer movement from the north and the south. Now, at this point, Max, the Ukrainian Military controls perhaps 25, perhaps 30 percent of the city and certainly over the last few months.
 
We have seen the Russians slowly at a very high cost, taking more ground, but what we're seeing is the Russians are really pouring into that battle, what they can to clinch one victory from its prolonged Winter Offensive. There are reliable reports that the Russians have deployed T-90 tanks, some of their most advanced tanks in that area. They've deployed them with units of the Wagner private military company. And in addition, there are more elite troops in the area. So it does appear that the Russians are making one last attempt to try to take that city where which has been the scene of fighting now since late summer last year, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK, Ben in Eastern Ukraine, thank you. The U.S. Navy says one of its warships sailed through the Taiwan Strait on Sunday. Officials called it a routine transit and claim the guided missile destroyer didn't enter the territory of any coastal state.
 
This game just a few days after China conducted Military drills around Taiwan though. The Chinese Military says it monitored the Americans ship the whole time and accused the U.S. of hyping up the operation. Japanese police have raided the home of a man they believe through an explosive device near the Prime Minister over the weekend. The dramatic moment was recorded and posted online. CNN's Marc Stewart reports.
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: As soon as the risk of danger became apparent during the campaign stop, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida security team immediately sprang into action. It's a moment that was caught on camera and posted on social media. The video shows a member of the security detail kicking away a pipe bomb that appears to have been thrown in the Prime Minister's direction.
 
That officer then uses a protective board to shield Kishida as he's rushed away from the scene. And then moments later the sound of an explosion over the weekend, police raided the home of the 24-year-old suspect. They removed several items including a computer, a mobile phone, tools and what appears to be gunpowder.
 
Japanese public broadcaster NHK said this scare occurred as international leaders converge on Japan this week ahead of the G7 Conference next month in Hiroshima and less than a year after the assassination of Former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. The Prime Minister addressed questions about safety.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FUMIO KISHIDA, PRIME MINISTER OF JAPAN: For event schedules like the G7 summit where dignitaries from around the world gather. I believe Japan nationwide will have to work together to make the utmost effort to provide security and safety.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
In Japan local campaign events like the one attended by the Prime Minister are very common and often without extensive security restrictions. Mark Stewart, CNN, Tokyo.
 
FOSTER: A much anticipated defamation trial between dominion and Fox News has been suddenly delayed. After the break what it means and could a possible settlement be in the works?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
FOSTER: So what exactly is happening in the Dominion lawsuit against Fox News? Or the election technology company has sued Fox News for defamation seeking damages of $1.6 billion and accuses the American TV network of damaging his reputation by airing false claims that its voting machines illegally rigged the 2020 election against Donald Trump.
 
Fox News has denied any wrongdoing saying the lawsuit is a threat to the First Amendment. The trial was supposed to begin today in Delaware, but on Sunday, the Superior Court made a surprise announcement saying the trial would be delayed until Tuesday. The judges' statement didn't explain why though.
 
But the Wall Street Journal is reporting that Fox is trying to settle the dispute out of court. The newspapers owned by Rupert Murdoch, the Chairman of Fox Corporation. Defamation cases are very challenging to win in the United States. Let's bring in CNN's Senior Legal Analyst Elie Honig for more details on why and that's because it's not just what was said in this case that matters. It's whether or not there's malice behind the accusations laid against Fox, right?
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: That's exactly right, Max. In order to prevail on a defamation lawsuit in the United States, the legal bar is very high. As a plaintiff here Dominion voting systems, you have to show two things. First of all, that the statements were false now the judge in this case has already ruled that the statements were false, that's not even going to be a question for the jury.
 
The second thing you have to prove is what we call actual malice, meaning that the defendant here Fox News knew that their statements were false or acted with reckless indifference as to the truth. That's where the legal bar is set.
 
FOSTER: So how are they arguing their case, Fox News against that specific element of the prosecution case?
 
HONIG: Well, so Dominions, evidence looks quite strong here. They have texts from various Fox personalities and executives, showing that they did not believe this notion that the election was stolen, how would Fox defend itself they'll wrap themselves in the First Amendment, they'll say that you can't show that we knew that the statements were false.
 
We'll also argue that the lawsuit here is not just to show that Fox lied about the election, but that Fox specifically defamed and damage Dominion voting system. So I don't think Fox has much of a strong defense here, and that could well explain why they're at the bargaining table.
 
FOSTER: Could they argue that to me and haven't lost business or haven't necessarily lost reputation because of this?
 
HONIG: Sure, so that'll go to the damages, even if Dominion wins here, even if Fox is liable. They're going to argue that Dominion has not sustained this level of economic damage, Dominion is asking for $1.6 billion in economic damages.
 
But keep in mind; the entire company has only been valued by Dominion itself as under $100 million. So they're asking for several multiples of what their company's worth there, even if this goes to trial, I don't think it's particularly likely that Dominion would ever get $1.6 billion.
 
FOSTER: Why might folks be trying to settle this out of court just to avoid the embarrassment of a trial, or because they think they won't win?
 
HONIG: Two things. First of all, if they settle out of court, they will cap their liability. They will avoid the risk of a mega verdict against them, which could happen and remember there could be punitive damages on top of any economic damages. The other thing is, I think Fox wants to avoid a nightmare scenario where several of their most prominent anchors.
 
People like Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson have to take the witness stand and answer questions and get cross examined, and were some of their top executives up to an including Rupert Murdoch, the judge ruled last week that Rupert Murdoch will be a witness in this case, if Dominion wants him.
 
And I think it's probably worth quite a bit to Fox to keep those folks from having to take the stand, testify under oath and be subjected to cross examination.
 
FOSTER: Fox arguing, they were merely repeating claims made by Trump and his team. But presumably the prosecution will try to pull out clips from on air shows, suggesting that actual anchors believed those lies to be true. So it wasn't just a repeat of a libel. It was a lie within itself.
 
HONIG: Yes, several problems with that line of argument. First of all, the behind the scenes, texts are contrary to that. Second of all, Rupert Murdoch at his deposition, admitted that several FOX News personalities, "endorsed these election fraud theories" endorsing is different than reporting and remember, the judge already ruled that these were false statements.
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
So FOX can't go back and argue, but we were just reporting that truthful allegations that were being made by Trump and others so that could be a defense, but I don't think it stands on the firmest of grounds.
 
FOSTER: Are there other news organizations supporting Fox in a way on this case, because it might set some precedence?
 
HONIG: Well, so it's interesting, nobody that I'm aware of has gone on record. But let's remember, the bar is already set by the U.S. Supreme Court decision back in 1964. Made it very, very difficult to successfully sue a media outlet, you have to show those things we talked about before falsity and actual malice.
 
So even if Fox were to lose here, that wouldn't make it easier to sue media organizations that would mean this is the very rare case where a jury found that the facts actually did clear that very high legal bar.
 
FOSTER: Elie Honig, appreciate your time from New York.
 
HONIG: Thanks, Max, all right.
 
FOSTER: Thank you. Before man goes to Mars you must first go to the moon and this is the rocket that will take us there apparently details are today's SpaceX launch up after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: In the next 30 minutes or so SpaceX plans to send the most powerful rocket ever built into space. You're looking at live images of a rocket at the launch pad in South Texas there. The starship spacecraft will one day ferry people to the moon and maybe one day to Mars. That's the plan anyway. Ed Lavandera has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The SpaceX starship is the most powerful rocket ever built. It's 400 feet tall. The super heavy booster is packed with 33 engines, and it will attempt to push the un-crewed starship spacecraft which sits on top of the rocket booster into space.
 
If the rocket launches properly, the spacecraft will separate less than three minutes into the flight and travel east from South Texas and go much of the way around the earth before splashing into the Pacific Ocean near Hawaii. But hours before this scheduled launch SpaceX Founder Elon Musk worked to lower expectations to the point that he seemed to be bracing for catastrophic failure.
 
ELON MUSK, SPACEX FOUNDER &amp; CEO: Success is not what should be expected. That would be insane. This vehicle could make it all the way too little bit or it may blow up on the pad. There's a million ways as rocket could fail.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): SpaceX has waited more than a year for the final government clearance to launch this rocket. The starship rocket system is the centerpiece of Musk goal of commercial space travel to the moon and beyond to Mars. It comes two weeks after NASA unveiled the four astronauts who will fly around the moon next year as part of the Space Agency's Artemis mission.
 
NASA has awarded SpaceX contracts and options of more than $3 billion to use starship to ferry future Artemis astronauts to the moon. NASA Artemis two commander Reid Wiseman spoke with CNN about the importance of this partnership for humans to eventually reach Mars.
 
REID WISEMAN, NASA ASTRONAUT: I think we will get there the amount of private-public partnerships going on. SpaceX is building our lander for the moon they're working on starship right now. We have commercial space is just doing amazing things right now. So to think that humans will be walking on Mars in 20 years is completely reasonable.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): Testing on this rocket system started several years ago, and it's resulted in many breakthroughs.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Two, one ignition, abort.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): But also some explosive setbacks.
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
Thousands of people are expected to crowd the beaches miles from the launch pad had to catch a glimpse of this rocket launch in the crowd will be Yemi Akinyemi Dele the Czech-Nigerian artist has already been selected as one of the first eight passengers who will eventually fly in the starship capsule on its first commercial flight around the moon.
 
LAVANDERA (on camera): Are you looking at it as one day, I'm going to be sitting in that rocket, and I want to know what it's going to be like?
 
YEMI AKINYEMI DELE, FUTURE SPACEX MISSION CREW MEMBER: For the first time, I'm going to see how it looks from close up. And I will be able to imagine how it would feel but just imagine how it would feel to sit in it and be leaving the Earth.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Ed Lavandera there reporting for us and as the saying goes April showers, bring May flowers and thanks to Epic amount of rain this winter. In California those flowers have finally arrived but hold the poppy super bloom. The rare instance when these vibrant orange flowers cover the fields and hillsides in California, like a blanket.
 
In fact, the super bloom is so big and bright. You can even see it from space, look at that. Professor Sarah Kimball, a plant ecologist at the University of California, Irvine, spoke with CNN about how the phenomenon happens.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SARAH KIMBALL, PROFESSOR AT UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, IRVINE: California wildflowers spend much of their time as seeds just dormant in the soil waiting for the perfect conditions for them to germinate and grow and bloom, and they can remain dormant in the seed bank for several years.
 
This year, we've had so much rain that many, many species of wildflowers have germinated and they were able to survive because we kept getting more rains and they started blooming and they just keep blooming.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: While the super bloom usually draws big crowds but Professor Kimball says it's important to remember not to step on those flowers. Thanks for joining me here on CNN "Newsroom", I'm Max Foster in London. "World Sport" with Amanda Davis is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:30:00]