Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Police Make Arrests In Killing Of Three Florida Teens; Police: Suspects And Victims In Triple Killings Are All Juveniles; Sheriff: Gun Laws Didn't Prevent Murders; GOP-Led TN House Expels Two Black Dems Over Gun Reform Protest, Fails To Oust White Colleague; Today: VP Harris Heads To Nashville To Meet With Ousted Dems; LSU Star Backtracks, Says National Championship Team Will Visit WH; Tiger Woods Endures "Constant" Pain During Masters Tournament First Round. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired April 07, 2023 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:30:35]
 
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN HOST: Police say that they've made some arrests in the killing of three teens that really stunned a small community in central Florida. They are still looking for a third suspect in this case. All of the victims and the suspects are juveniles. 
 
The sheriff says that both the victims and the suspects have gang affiliations and the victims were involved in burglaries and robberies. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BILLY WOODS, SHERIFF, MARION COUNTY, FL, SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT: Basically, simple terms, there is no honor among thieves -- thieves. And at some point, these three individuals turned on our three victims and murdered them, two of them, right there. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PHILLIP: CNN's Carlos Suarez is following the latest developments for us. 
 
So, Carlos, we have now a break in this case. So what are police saying about that suspect who they are still looking for here? 
 
CARLOS SUAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Abby the Marion County Sheriff's Office says they've made two arrests. They're looking for that third juvenile. He has been identified as a 16-year-old Taj Bruton. 
 
This is where this investigation stands right now. We know that all of the suspects are minors. The three people that the sheriff's office are looking for, the two that they've arrested the third that is still on the run, they're all minors.
 
According to the sheriff, the three victims that were killed last week are believed to be involved in burglaries and robberies. 
 
Now that one suspect, again, remains at large. And it's unclear at this hour whether any of these three minors could end up being charged as adults. 
 
Here now is what the sheriff said at a news conference earlier today, when he kept being asked exactly how these three victims -- what these three victims are doing along with these three suspects. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WOODS: What do you think they were doing? They are associated with a gang. And I've told some of you all in interviews, gangs don't go to church on Sunday and then preach the gospel for the next six days. They're gangs because they commit crimes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUAREZ: Again, it is still unclear at this hour exactly what these three suspects were doing with the three victims. Though, as you heard right there, the sheriff believes that the group was not doing anything legal, at least it seems.
 
Underscoring the news conference earlier today, there was a bit of an unusual tone to things considering the topic at hand. 
 
The sheriff, at one point, talked about parental rights as well as gun laws, and the fact that he believes schools need to be doing a lot more work when it comes to students getting into trouble -- Abby?
 
PHILLIP: All right, Carlos Suarez, thank you very much. 
 
Now let's bring in CNN's legal analyst, Joey Jackson. 
 
So, Joey, as Carlos just mentioned, one of the things that really stood out about this case is just a truly disturbing nature of it. Teenagers, both the victims and the perpetrators, the allegation of gun -- gun violence. 
 
But also the tone of the sheriff in this news conference really stood out. 
 
I want to have our viewers listen to a little bit more of it. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WOODS: All the gun laws we got in place didn't prevent it, did it? Neither will any new ones. 
 
Because here's the fact, the bad guy's going to get a gun, no matter what law you have put in place. These juveniles shouldn't even possess a handgun. But they did. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PHILLIP: So, Joey, what stood out to you about that? JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Yes, a number of things, Abby. Good
 
 to be with you. 
 
First of all, he even indicated that, as the sheriff, that he was emotional about it. There was a lot going through his mind. 
 
But in addition to those remarks, he was speaking to the issue of juvenile accountability and talking about the fact that we need to hold juveniles accountable.
 
The fact that you know when he was a young kid, and even for his children, he would allow neighbors to whip his kids if they needed to. So there was a lot going on there.
 
But I think you know, even spoke to the issue of gun control as it relates to look, it's not the gun that did it. No gun law that we could have would prevent this from occurring. 
 
So I think he was, you know, pretty amped up and, quite frankly, disturbed that the nature of this crime, where you see that there are juveniles involved in the track, the travesty and the tragedy, Abby, of having three other juveniles dead.
 <br>[13:35:01]
 
So very disturbing, very unfortunate, and certainly something that needs to be monitored. 
 
PHILLIP: Yes, I mean, you do have, in the three juveniles, a 12-year- old, which is extraordinarily young, a 16-year-old and a 17-year-old. How does that affect the investigation and even potentially the prosecution here? 
 
JACKSON: I think it will affect it in a number of ways. So the first thing to consider is whether or not they'll be charges in adult court versus juvenile court. 
 
If you look at the jurisdiction, Abby, Florida certainly is very tough on juveniles, historically has been. And so they had a process which is called Direct File. 
 
What does that mean? It means that a prosecutor, with respect to a 17- or 16-year-old, could just go straight to adult court in using their discretion. If it's 14-, 15-year-old isn't there's another process that they go through? 
 
But there's a lot involved. And it relates to having the ability as a prosecutor to jump right to adult court. 
 
And then, of course, there's the issue involving the 12-year-old, and how is that handled, right? Do we now, if you're Florida officials, do that in juvenile court. 
 
The distinction obviously, is that adult court is very different, right? The focus in juvenile court, Abby, is on rehabilitation. It's on the fact that your mind obviously is not significantly
 
 developed as an adult would be. They take that into consideration. And there are various programs to assist and to help you in adult court. The focus really is on punishment and accountability. 
 
And so it'll be up to the local prosecutors, the state attorney to make a determination based on the gravity of the offence, the nature of the actions and the activities of these particular individuals as to what specifically they do and how these juveniles are treated. 
 
PHILLIP: Yes. And as for the investigation, there are still some holes here and what we know.
 
The victims were found in different locations. And the sheriff wouldn't say whether he believed that they had been shot at all the same time and in the same location, and then later moved. 
 
Do you have a sense of why some of those details might still be withheld at this point? 
 
JACKSON: So I think it's important, whenever there's an investigation, Abby, that particularly when there is one subject or one suspect, who is at liberty, to really be mindful of that, and to really before you give away too much in a press conference, right?
 
You don't want to impair anyone's rights at the time that they are apprehended. You want witnesses who are credible who could potentially come forward. You don't want to give too much information that would otherwise not be known. 
 
And so I think it's important the investigatory stage to be very we mindful with respect to what information you give and what information witnesses could only know based upon their -- their being there, or having information other than having them heard it on the press. So a lot of ways to go here. 
 
But in the press conference, Abby, also, that is, the sheriff spoke to the FBI having been involved the Florida state officials having been involved in, a number of other jurisdictions, assisting.
 
And in an investigation like this, already talked to the digital imprint, the phones and what they'll glean from that, whether this surveillance or any the other thing. There'll be interviews of the parties who are living, if they choose to speak. 
 
And so they said, at least the sheriff did that, there's a lot of information. A lot of evidence was left at the crime scene. And I think that will be evidence that will be used. In the prosecution. 
 
PHILLIP: Yes, I certainly expect that to be the case, too.
 
Joey Jackson, thank you, as always. 
 
And still ahead for us, the Republican-led Tennessee House has expelled two black Democratic lawmakers over gun reform protests. And now they're getting some high-profile support, those lawmakers are, from the White House. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(CHANTING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:40:05]
 
PHILLIP: The backlash has not subsided in the state of Tennessee after Republicans made the unprecedented move of expelling two Democrats from the state House last night for taking part in peaceful gun reform protests in the chamber. 
 
Now three Democrats were up for expulsion. But in the end, only two were removed, Justin Pearson and Justin Jones. 
 
Gloria Johnson, who you see there in the middle, she was able to keep her seat, narrowly. 
 
So the racial dimension of all of that is hard to ignore. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STATE REP. JUSTIN JONES (D-TN): I think what happened was a travesty of democracy. Because it -- they expelled the two youngest black lawmakers, which is no coincidence, from the Tennessee legislature because we are outspoken, because we fight for our district. 
 
And they retaliated, not because of that one incidence of us going to the well and joining those young people protesting gun violence. But because they got tired and did not feel like young black men have a right to be at the same dais as them. 
 
They felt like young black men don't have the right to sit in the chamber with them. They don't see us as equal. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PHILLIP: And there may very well be a way for Jones and Pearson to get their seats back. 
 
But first, before we get into that, this just into CNN. They will be meeting with Vice President Kamala Harris. She is heading to Nashville today. 
 
CNN's Ryan Young is in Nashville for us. And Priscilla Alvarez is outside of the White House with that breaking news. 
 
So, Priscilla, what are we learning about this surprise trip by the vice president to Nashville? 
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Abby, this really shows the focus that the administration is putting on gun reform in what has become a flashpoint in Tennessee. 
 
Now Vice President Kamala Harris had no public events scheduled for today. So this is a last-minute trip that she is now taking to Nashville, Tennessee. 
 
Of course, gun reform being a key issue here and what the administration has been pushing since the shooting in that private Christian school in Nashville last week that left six people dead. 
 <br>[13:45:03]
 
Now President Biden has all also chimed in on the expulsion of the state lawmakers, saying in a late-night statement, quote, that "It was shocking, undemocratic and without precedent." 
 
He also criticized Republicans for not tackling gun reform, going on to say, "Rather than debating the merits of the issue, these Republican lawmakers have chosen to punish, silence and expelled duly elected representatives of the people of Tennessee." 
 
So today, we will see Harris traveling to Nashville to meet with those three lawmakers, who are facing sponsored, in addition to the rest of the Democratic state lawmakers in Tennessee -- Abby? 
 
PHILLIP: All right, Priscilla, thank you for that. 
 
And, Ryan, this is now a national story. The eyes of the country are on Nashville right now, and emotions are very, very high. What are you hearing on the ground there? 
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Abby, this is unreal, how this played out. Especially when I was on your show yesterday. All the protesters who showed up who stayed focused on the idea of talking about gun violence.
 
And it was also very interesting because I've had it pointed out to me several times through text messages with leaders across the state who are telling me just think about this. These two young men to young black men were fighting for gun control.
 
At the same time, a lot of times when people talk about urban gun violence, they ask where the community is when it comes to standing up about that. And that's something that the two young men were talking about all the time. 
 
The fact they had so many people that they know who have been killed by gun violence, and they want to see more god in control. 
 
That conversation did not happen at all yesterday. It was all focused on the procedural movements here. 
 
When we started today, we thought all three lawmakers we're going to be expelled. Only two were. And there were a lot of people who walked up and, obviously, pointed at the obvious that the two black members were thrown out. And that's something that's really left a stain for a lot of members across the state of Tennessee. You feel that pain and you feel the questions coming up about why this had to be made so openly at this point.
 
And, Abby, that painting to come forward because, on Monday, they plan to come back here and protest again. 
 
We're already hearing that both members could be back in their seat before the end of the month because both city councils have a chance. But there were the members back in place -- Abby? 
 
PHILLIP: All right, Priscilla, Ryan Young, thank you both very much. 
 
And still ahead for us, an update on how Tiger Woods is doing today at the Masters golf legend struggles in the opening round. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER: How's the leg feel? 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:51:15]
 
PHILLIP: Basketball star, Angel Reese, now says that the national champion Tigers will in fact visit the White House.
 
Reese had initially said that she had rejected the invitation after first lady, Jill Biden, suggested that both LSU and the team that they beat in the title game, Iowa, should both make the trip to the White House. 
 
Reese explained her thinking about it on ESPN this morning. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANGEL REESE, LSU BASKETBALL PLAYER: Just going back on it, I mean, the team. You don't get that experience ever. So being able to go back and I know my team probably wants to go for sure. And my coaches is supportive of that. 
 
So I'm going to do what's best for the team. And they would like to go, we decided we're going to go there, we're going to -- we're going to go. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PHILLIP: All right, something tells me that's going to be a fun experience for them. 
 
But on another story in sports, golf icon, Tiger Woods, has conquered the Masters five times but, this year, the course maybe conquering him. 
 
Woods has struggled in the opening round and says that he is dogged by constant pain in the leg that he badly injured in a car accident in 2021. 
 
CNN's Don Riddell is live for us at Augusta.
 
So, Don, Tiger hasn't missed the cut for the Masters since 1996. Can you turn it around today? 
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Abby, he's got it all to do. Yes, he's -- since he's been a professional golfer, he's always played the weekend here at the Masters whenever he's entered the tournament, of course. But he's up against it. 
 
Yes, you're right. He really, really did struggle yesterday. And he knew that, because the conditions were best yesterday, the -- it was bright. It was sunny. It wasn't raining. 
 
We're expecting a lot of weather to come in this afternoon and tomorrow. He knew that yesterday was the day to get it done. And he didn't. 
 
He really struggled, in particular, with his iron play, ending the day with five boogies, three birdies, a two-over-par score. And it means that now he's really got to get out there and get after it. 
 
He's played three holes. He's even so far, so no more bleeding, so to speak. But he's going to have to be a bit more aggressive if he wants to climb the leaderboard so that he can make the cut and play this weekend. 
 
But you know, Tiger Woods, always such an absolutely massive story. That has been the case once again here this week. 
 
Another American doing much better though, Brooks Koepka. He struggled with injury problems of his own. Had a seven under yesterday, a five under today. He is in the clubhouse, leading the tournament on 12 under par and looking absolutely brilliant. 
 
It's good to see him back. He won four majors between 2017 and 2019. And then he got hurt. And then he kind of disappeared. But he's looking as good as he ever did before. 
 
PHILLIP: Yes. And as far as Tiger's concerned, after what he went through with that car accident, it's, you know, a lot to see him out there in the first place. It was such a tough accident for him. 
 <br>[13:55:03]
 
Don Riddell, thank you so much. 
 
And before we go, you are about to see the body cam footage of a police rescuing -- police rescue of a baby from a second-floor fire in Indiana. 
 
Take a look. This is a good story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Get out, get out, get out.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Kinder, kid. Kinder, baby. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Just give me the car seat. She's good.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's fine. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Please don't drop her. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I won't. I got her. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PHILLIP: The fire broke out in the middle of the night at a home in Frankfort, Indiana -- Indiana. And three officers, they arrived within one minute of that 911 call.
 
And they successfully evacuated a total of six people from that second floor, including that precious little baby. 
 
But that does it for me here today. You can join me on Sunday morning at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time for "INSIDE POLITICS," Sunday.
 
But in the meantime, don't go anywhere. We have much more news ahead right now on CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)