Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Harrowing Accounts of Synagogue Massacre Shooting Provided by Survivors; Air Force Base Drag Show Canceled by Pentagon; Researchers Investigate Whether Ozempic Can Reduce Behavioral Addictions; New $300M Security Package for Ukraine Announced by White House; NATO Member States Agreed Ukraine will Eventually Join Alliance; Moon Mission Training to Start for NASA Artemis II Crew; Trump is Recorded Discussing Top-Secret Documents. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired June 01, 2023 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:30:00]
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Carol Black recalled hiding in a closet. One of the other men in the closet with was shot and killed. She told the court it was very hard to look at him lying on the floor. There was a lot blood underneath. And her brother, Richard Godfreed (ph) was also killed that day. And new images from inside the synagogue were released. Revealing the horrific scene from the 2018 massacre. Prosecutors are seeking for the death penalty for suspect Robert Bowers.
 
CNN's Danny Freeman outside the courthouse in Pittsburgh. So, Danny, what can we expect to happen today?
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Rahel, we can expect to hear more survivors and their testimonies on the stand today. We actually just heard from the second rabbi, who is a survivor, Rabbi Jonathan Perlman, he was on the stand just a moment ago. We're talking to another -- we're hearing from another survivor now.
 
But I want to get into some of the details that you were mentioning. Some of the just terrifying testimony that we heard yesterday afternoon. We've heard from multiple survivors over the course of the past three days, but most of them have actually not been shot during the actual synagogue shooting. However, then we heard from 75-year-old Dan Leger. Now, he was just -- he described yesterday on the stand being in the synagogue with Dr. Jerry Rabinowitz. Dr. Rabinowitz, he was a medical doctor and Dan, he is a nurse.
 
So, the two of them, when they heard gunfire, they decided to run toward the gunfire. And I want to describe -- tell you a quote that Dan said on the stand. He said, "Jerry and I looked at each other in the doorway as the sound of gunfire continued. Jerry looked at me and said, oh, Dan. Then we both moved in the direction of the gunfire."
 
Well, Dr. Rabinowitz, Jerry, he was killed in that shooting, and Dan was shot in the stomach, shot in the abdomen. And he described just how terrifying that moment was because he felt a tremendous amount of pain. But then he had to stay perfectly still while bleeding on a staircase in the synagogue because he was so afraid that if the gunman came to him and realized he was alive, that he would, in his words, come finish the job. And Dan described feeling that he actually would die in this moment. He started praying and started thinking about his entire life. Then he was ultimately rescued.
 
And we, actually, just this morning, got a piece of evidence. Some new video that shows the moment that paramedics were able to carry Dan out of the synagogue. Again, harrowing things that we're seeing as each day of this trials continues. We're going to bring you more evidence and more testimony as we hear it today. Rahel, back to you.
 
SOLOMON:  We know you will. Danny Freeman live for us there outside the courthouse in Pittsburgh. Thank you.
 
Kate.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  That is so hard to see even if we've heard the story so many times. That's so sad.
 
SOLOMON:  Absolutely it is.
 
BOLDUAN:  And so important that Danny is there for us covering it. Thanks so much. We'll continue to cover that, of course.
 
So, a drag queen that was -- a drag show, rather, that was set to return to the U.S. Air Force base -- set to return to a U.S. Air Force base for a third year has now been canceled. The show was scheduled for today at the Nellis Air Force Base, just outside of Las Vegas. And according to two defense officials, the schedule changed after the Pentagon intervened.
 
CNN's Natasha Bertrand is at the Pentagon for us. She's joining us now. Natasha, what's going on here? What are you picking up?
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER:  Yes, Kate. So, this would have been the third drag show that Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada would have held in the last three years. And it was cancelled abruptly after the Pentagon intervened on Wednesday, we are told. Telling leaders there that the show could not actually move forward.
 
Now, it is unclear exactly why it was actually canceled, but the prevailing defense that we've gotten from the Pentagon is that, essentially, they decided that this was not a good use of Pentagon resources. But this all really goes back to a hearing in March before the House Armed Services Committee where Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley were actually grilled by Republican Representative Matt Gaetz about the prominence of this drag shows on military bases across the United States. And he questioned them about why military installations were being used to host these shows. Here's what they said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MATT GAETZ (R-FL):  At Nellis Air Force Base, you had the Drag-u- Nellis on June 17th. Who funded these things, Mr. Secretary?
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY:  Listen, drag shows are not something that the Department of Defense supports or funds.
 
GAETZ:  But why are they happening on military bases? I just showed you the evidence. Why are they happening?
 
AUSTIN:  I will say again, this is not something that we support or fund.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERTRAND:  So, essentially, in order to maintain the consistency there of Austin's statements, the Pentagon decided that this show that was supposed to happen today to mark the start of pride month would not move forward. And an air force official did tell us in a statement that, "Consistent with Secretary Austin's congressional testimony, the Air Force will not host drag events at its installations or facilities. Commanders have been directed to either cancel or relocate these events to an off-base location." Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  OK. Thanks for the reporting, Natasha.
 
John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  New research this morning about a drug that many people take for weight loss and can treat conditions such as diabetes.
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
This new research shows that drugs, like Ozempic, may also help curb drug addiction.
 
CNN's Meg Tirrell is here with the details. So, Meg, what does the data show?
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, this is really fascinating. In much of the data that's emerging really isn't in any sort of patient anecdotes and need to be confirmed in clinical trials. We spoke with one patient who's started taking Ozempic to lose weight, but then noticed an effect on her interest in vaping. Take a listen to how she describes how it made her feel.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHERI FERGUSON, SAYS OZEMPIC HELPED HER STOP VAPING:  It's like someone's just come along and switched the light on and you can see the room for what it is. And all of these vapes and cigarettes that you've had over the years, it just -- they don't look attractive anymore. It's very, very strange. Very strange. The weight that it takes off your mind is far greater than any pounds that can come off of your body.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TIRRELL:  Now, scientists think that the effect that you see here and things like alcohol and cigarettes use maybe related to this, sort of, reward centers in the brain and how the drug is affecting those. We've seen NIH studies in mice and rats on this, there's one clinical trial going on. But this is a huge unmet need. Alcohol use disorder affects about 30 million people in the U.S. and less than five percent of people get treatment right now. The drug companies, however, who make these drugs are not currently pursuing these indications for these medicines.
 
BERMAN:  Well, that's interesting. I mean, it's fascinating that it can treat the idea of addiction. What makes someone want something, perhaps, no matter what that something is.
 
TIRRELL:  Yes, absolutely. We've seen this -- be tremendously successful for weight loss because of the effects in the gut, but perhaps also because of what's happening in the brain. And maybe this can translate into other areas.
 
BERMAN:  All right. We'll keep watching. Meg Tirrell, thanks very much.
 
Rahel.
 
SOLOMON:  All right. John, thank you. Prosecutors are preparing to examine potential new clues in the search for Madeleine McCann, the toddler who disappeared 16 years ago. What police in Portugal are saying about the latest developments.
 
And Ukraine's President Zelenskyy says that his country is ready to join NATO and it's time for the alliance to make a decision. What world leaders are saying about that, coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
SOLOMON:  Welcome back. German prosecutors are preparing to evaluate some item that were discovered in a recent search in Portugal. This is all related to the unsolved disappearance of Madeleine McCann. A three-day search focused on an area surrounding a dam roughly 30 miles from where the toddler went missing in 2007. Police say a number of items were seized in the search but unclear right now if they were are related to the unsolved case just yet.
 
Britain's Prince William and Princess Kate attending a royal wedding in another country setting. The crowned prince of Jordan and his fiance tying the night -- the knot amid a slew of high-profiled guests. And First Lady Jill Biden also in attendance for today's ceremony. The 28-year-old crowned prince is the eldest son of King Abdullah II and heir to the throne.
 
And now to the war in Ukraine, Russia's bombardment of Kyiv continued overnight, killing three people, injuring a mother and her. Ukraine's armed forces say that they have destroyed all 10 missiles launched towards Kyiv. Evacuations are also happening in the Russian border region of Belgorod after, at least, five people were injured in early morning attacks. And video also shows this residential fire happening here. Russia said, an on the ground incursion attempt by Ukraine forces was prevented this morning. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  Secretary of State, Tony Blinken, is in Norway right now. Reiterating U.S. support of Ukraine during a NATO meeting this morning. Along with Russia's war in Ukraine, the foreign ministers gathered there area also talking about NATO -- the NATO membership bids from Ukraine and Sweden. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg says, the main focus has been, "Bringing Ukraine closer to NATO where it belongs."
 
CNN's Kylie Atwood is tracking all of this for us. She's from the State Department, of course. Kylie, the Biden administration, also, in the midst of all this, has announced a new aid package to Ukraine. What is Tony Blinken saying about it?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, it's significant that the Biden administration made this announcement of new aid to Ukraine as the secretary of state is meeting with his counterparts from NATO countries at this NATO summit in Sweden. Of course, the Biden administration announcing about $300 million in additional support for Ukraine, including new air defense and munitions, things that we have seen the United States gave Ukraine in the past, but of course, continuing that commitment.
 
As these foreign ministers meet and talk about how important the unity with the NATO has been to supporting Ukraine throughout this entire conflict. And as you were saying, the secretary-general talked about bringing Ukraine closer to NATO, of course, that's something that we'll be watching for as the leaders of these NATO countries prepare for the leader level summit which takes place in Vilnius about six months from now. And here's what the secretary of state said Ukraine should expect during that meeting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  We and our friends in Ukraine can anticipate a very robust package of both political and practical support. We're focused intensely on what we can do to strengthen even more the relationship between Ukraine and NATO and to continue to bring Ukraine up to NATO standards.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ATWOOD:  The other thing that we'll be watching for at that NATO summit is Sweden. Obviously, Sweden's bid to join NATO has been on the table now for over a year.
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
The secretary of state saying just yesterday that the time is now for Sweden to actually join NATO. We know that the standout country here who has been opposed to Sweden joining NATO is Turkey. And the secretary of state, other officials in recent days putting, you know, increase pressure on Turkey to say, yes. But the secretary of state saying, the time is now. The U.S. expects that Sweden is going to get that greenlight in the coming weeks so that by the time of NATO there is unity and there is a new member in addition to Finland joining NATO just a few months ago as you'll recall. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  Yes, absolutely. I mean, a lot of people are wondering if now that the presidential election in Turkey has wrapped, if that will now change, kind of, the hold-out what we've seen against Sweden joining of NATO. It's great to see you, Kylie. Thank you.
 
John.
 
BERMAN:  A historic 10-day journey past the moon. An extraordinary mission that requires 18 months of training. The commander will reveal the team's inner secrets ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
SOLOMON:  A New York man has been sentenced to up to 15 years in prison for a limo crash that killed 20 people. Nauman Hussain, whose family owns the limo company, was convicted of manslaughter for the 2018 accidents. Prosecutors say, he hired the driver who did not have a proper license. And that he should have known the limo had a mechanical and safety deficiencies. Hussain's attorney says that they have already filed paperwork to start an appeal.
 
And Chicago, the city council has approved an additional $51 million in funding to help migrants arriving in the city. But this did not come without a heated debated. One alderperson, Jeanette Taylor, got emotional as she weighed in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEANETTE TAYLOR, CHICAGO CITY COUNCIL ALDERPERSON:  Now, I'm conflicted because in my heart, I know what's right. I know it's right to want to help other people, because as black people, that's what we do. But when in hell are you all going to help us.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  There are 34 ayes. There are 13 nays. This matter is passed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  CNN affiliate WLS reports that more than 10,000 asylum seekers have arrived in Chicago since last August. And New York City officials say that they are now caring for more than 45,000 people.
 
And in some entertainment news, for "Sex and the City" fans, apparently Kim Cattrall is back in scene and has confirmed the actress filmed a scene as Samantha Jones for, "And Just Like That", a continuation of the original hit show. It airs on Max which does, of course, have the same parent company as CNN, but maybe a bit of a reunion, a patching up of things between Sam and Carrie, we shall see.
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN:  Absolutely. There's also this, we want to tell you about. A very rare high-altitude rescue. A climber, lucky to be alive this morning, after a sherpa guide was able to haul him down from below the summit of Mount Everest. I'm going to show you, that is the man tied to the sherpa's back, right there. The guide was climbing with someone else, actually, up Mount Everest, when he spotted the climber in distress, clinging to a rope and shivering. Temperatures in that area can drop to negative 86 degrees Fahrenheit.
 
The sherpa brought the climber up, carried him down nearly 2,000 feet. A helicopter was then able to bring the climber to a base camp for care. The rescue took about six hours. Officials say rescues at this altitude are nearly impossible and you can understand why when you seen what they're dealing with. 12 climbers have died attempting to clime Everest this season, the highest number in eight years.
 
It's remarkable, John, what they've pulled off.
 
BERMAN:  I've always found the whole thing terrifying.
 
BOLDUAN:  Yes.
 
BERMAN:  I mean, I get wanting to climb -- 
 
BOLDUAN:  But you're also -- 
 
BERMAN:  -- the tallest mountain.
 
BOLDUAN:  -- like, you've run marathons. Like, this just seems -- like, this is right up -- like, it could be one of those life goals. I'm actually not joking this time.
 
BERMAN:  No, no. Absolutely, not. I would never, ever do this in a million years.
 
BOLDUAN:  I don't know.
 
BERMAN:  I just seem too dangerous and it's so out of your control even if you are in incredible shape.
 
BOLDUAN:  That's so true. The weather conditions -- 
 
BERMAN:  Yes.
 
BOLDUAN:  -- are completely out of your control.
 
BERMAN:  No matter what you do, you could still end up in serious trouble.
 
BOLDUAN:  Yes.
 
BERMAN:  So, the National Eating Disorders Association is suspending the use of its chatbot after it shared weight loss tips with people using the service. What the group is saying about what happened.
 
And we are moments away from an important update on the partial apartment building collapse in Iowa. Five people still unaccounted for. Officials now warning the rest of the building could topple at any moment. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
BERMAN:  Former President Trump on tape acknowledging he kept classified documents when he left the White House. What this audio recording could mean for the ongoing Department of Justice investigation.
 
BOLDUAN:  And overnight, new shelling in Ukraine's capital. The military says they destroyed all the missiles but falling debris left two -- three people dead.
 
SOLOMON:  And after being accused of violating use privacy for years, Amazon will have to pay up. How much the company is shelling out, this is "CNN News Central."
 
BERMAN:  So, happening now, we are waiting to see Former President Trump arrive at a campaign event in the key state of Iowa. At the same time, a potentially major development in the classified documents investigation, and the documents recovered from Mar-a-Lago. In reporting, that was first on CNN, we learned that Trump acknowledged keeping documents in his possession months after leaving the White House, classified documents. And that acknowledgement was all caught on tape and is now in the hands of the special council.
 
While CNN has not obtained the tape itself, multiple sources have confirmed its existence and have described what is on it. The tape was recorded in the summer of 2021 during a meeting with two individuals who helped write Mark Meadows' autobiography. Meadows, who was Trump's chief of staff in the White House was not at that meeting.
 
On the tape, according to sources, Trump mentioned a classified Pentagon document which described a potential attack on Iran. Trump then suggested sharing it, but had a limited ability to declassify records after leaving office.
 <br>[11:00:00]