Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Biden, South Korean Pres. Yoon Take Questions From Reporters; McCarthy Changes Debt Bill Amid Struggle For GOP Votes. Aired 2-2:30p ET

Aired April 26, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We've Got. So, I decided to go out and see what we could do to increase our hold on the market once again. And so, what I did was I went around the country as well as an additional passing the CHIPS and Science Act.
 
I, in fact, did visit the countries around the world. And two significant South Korean companies decided they were going to invest billions of dollars in chip manufacturing in the United States. It wasn't designed to hurt China. It was designed to -- so we didn't have to worry about whether or not we had access to semiconductors.
 
For example, during the pandemic, what happened was, all of a sudden, everybody started to learn the phrase supply chain. A year ago, no one knew what the hell anybody was talking about when said supply chain. But now, they all know.
 
And we lost access to these semiconductors, in which new automobiles in the United States deep 30,000 of them just to build a new automobile. And we didn't have them. So, we started to invest here.
 
And what happened was when we encouraged the investment through the CHIPS and Science Act, and now we have an enormous investment in the United States, well over $200 billion in long-term investment in semiconductors. And we were rebuilding the economy of the United States with those semiconductors.
 
It's not designed to hurt China. The only thing I did say with regard to China for certain extremely sophisticated semiconductors that we have built that are useful for nuclear and or other weapons systems. Those were not selling. We're not exporting it to China or anyone else. And so, that's the context in which this all occurred.
 
In the meantime, we've created thousands of jobs and bringing back a sense of pride and dignity to so many towns in the country, where all of a sudden, over the last three decades, we found out that factory hired --- had 600 people shut down and soul of the -- of that community was lost. And so, I made sure when the semiconductors are coming back, that they were not just going to go to the coast, they'd be all over the country. And so, we have a significant field of dreams and outside of -- in Ohio, outside of Columbus. We're in Texas, we're in Arizona, anyway they're all over the country. So, it's not viewed to hurt anyone else. We are providing access to those semiconductors.
 
We're not -- we're a supply chain you can count on. But we are not -- we are not going to sit back and be in a position where we don't have access to those semiconductors. We are not going to be a place where we're the end of that line. We're the -- we are the beginning of it.
 
And it's generating significant economic growth in America and not hurting anybody. And, by the way, it's creating jobs in South Korea -- it's creating jobs in South Korea, not just the best capable anyway, with Samsung and other industries. So, I think it's a win-win.
 
YOON SUK YEOL, PRESIDENT OF SOUTH KOREA (through translator): With regard to your question, let me provide my answer. Korea and the U.S. based on its Washington Declaration, are two countries that have agreed to strengthen extended deterrence, and the implementation level is different from the past. First of all, we have an NCG, Nuclear Consultative Group, that has been launched that will implement discussions and actions. And we will hold regular meetings and consultations under NCG.
 
We will share information on mutual nuclear assets and intelligence. And we will jointly plan responses and also jointly planned exercises and drills and implementation plans. So, all of these will be strengthened and specified under the Nuclear Consultative Group.
 
We want to customize our response against North Korea's nuclear threat based on extended deterrence. And in the process of achieving this goal, any concerns that Koreans may have against North Korean nuclear weapons will be relieved, I believe. If nuclear weapons are used, our two countries will strengthen our response in a swift manner.
 
Any further questions to me? Please. Reporter one -- from on -- one NTN.
 <br>[14:05:14]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I have two questions for you. With regard to extended deterrence, the NCG that has been formed, how will Korea function under NCG? Any kind of nuclear-equipped -- nuclear assets will be in function?
 
And to President Biden, Korea is to maintain the NPT and it is to strengthen extended deterrence, correct? So, based on your view, do you think this is enough to guard Korea against the North Korean nuclear threat? Thank you very much.
 
YOON (through translator): Well, let me address your question about the activities of the NCG. We are going to be sharing information and we are going to be acting jointly. That is the key.
 
I can't talk to the specifics right now about what type of information and what type of specific activities we will be conducting. But however, under the nuclear umbrella, our extended deterrence was a lot lower. So, right now, it's an unprecedented expansion and strengthening of the Extended Deterrence Strategy under the Washington Declaration, which will create the NCG.
 
The implementation and the response at this level have never thus far been this strong. So, this is a new level of extended deterrence much stronger. That I can say with confidence.
 
BIDEN: The response that I would give you is that the extended deterrence means that we are having more consultation with whatever action is to be contemplated or taken. And we made it really very, very clear. Any -- the ROK is repeatedly formed that it's going to confirm its commitment to a -- to the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Washington declaration is a prudent step to enforce the extended deterrence and respond to advancing DPRK nuclear threat.
 
Look. A nuclear attack by North Korea against the United States or its allies or partisan -- partners is unacceptable and will result in the end of whatever regime were to take such an action. And it's about strengthening deterrence in response to DPRK's escalatory behavior and to deal in complete consultation.
 
And, you know, the idea that I have absolute authority as commander in chief of the law, and the sole authority to use a nuclear weapon. But you know, what the declaration means is that we're going to make every effort to consult with our allies when it's appropriate if any actions so call for it.
 
Certainly, we've talked about this and some other things today, but the bottom line here is there's even closer cooperation, closer consultation, and we're not going to be stationing nuclear weapons on the -- on the peninsula. But we will have visits to ports, visits to nuclear submarines, and things like that. We are not walking away from that.
 
I turned to ask a question. I think the next question is Mary Bruce, ABC.
 
MARY BRUCE, CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT, ABC NEWS: Thank you, Mr. President. You recently launched your reelection campaign. You've said questions about your age are legitimate, and your response is always, just watch me.
 
But the country is watching. And recent polling shows that 70 percent of Americans, including the majority of Democrats, believe you shouldn't run again. What do you say to them?
 
What do you say to those Americans who are watching and aren't convinced? You've said you can beat Trump again. Do you think you're the only one?
 
BIDEN: I may not be the only one but I know him well and I know the danger he represents to our democracy. And we've been down this road before. And with regard to the age, you know, and polling data, I noticed the polling data I keep hearing about is that I'm between 42 and 46 percent favorable rating, etcetera. And -- but everybody running for reelection in this time has been in the same position. There's nothing new about that. They're making it sound like Biden's really underwater. And -- number one.
 
Number two. When the same polling data asked whether they think what kind of job I've done, it gives overwhelmingly positive results, from 58 percent thinking and everything from the CHIPS Act and all the things we've done. You know, we've created -- like I said, we've created 12 million new jobs.
 <br>[14:10:02]
 
We created 800,000 manufacturing jobs. We have economic growth moving. We're in a situation where the climate -- we've invested more money and more help in dealing with the climate crisis than any nation in the world. And so, things are moving. And the reason I'm running again is a job to finish.
 
The other thing is that look, you know, think about what I inherited when I got elected. I inherited a nation in overwhelming debt at the time, number one, in the whole for the four years that he was president. I inherited a nation that had a serious loss of credibility around the world as America First. And you know, the first meeting I attended, the G7, I said Americans back and one of the world leaders have to sit for how long -- for how long?
 
There's a great concern about the United States being able to lead the free world. And we're doing that again. And those same polls you're looking at, if you take a look at the polls, are saying whether I pull together NATO and the European Union as well as Asian partners, I think we have. But there's more to do.
 
And with regard to age, I can't even say -- if I guess how old I am, I can't even say the number. It doesn't -- it doesn't register with me. And -- but the only thing I can say is that one of the things that people are going to find out how they're going to see your race. And they're going to judge whether or not I have it or don't have it.
 
I respect them taking a hard look at it. I take a hard look at it as well. I took a hard look at it before I decided to run.
 
And I feel good. I feel excited about the prospects. And I think we're on the verge of really turning the corner in a way we haven't for a long time.
 
I know you're tired of hearing me say we're in an inflection point. Well, we really are. What happens in the next 2,3,4 years is going to determine what the next three to four decades look like. And I have never been more optimistic in my life about the possibilities of the United States.
 
BRUCE: To be clear, though, you just said I know him well. Did Donald Trump's decision to run affect yours? Would you be running if he wasn't?
 
BIDEN: Yes. I think I still would be running if he wasn't. I do know him well. And he's not hard to know, as you know. You know him well, too.
 
And the question is whether or not -- look. There's just -- there's more to finish the job. We have an opportunity to put ourselves in a position where we are economically and politically secure for a long time.
 
Look. We continue to have and now, well, you don't like me hear saying it. There's still a contest between autocracies and democracies. And we're the leading democracy in the world. And it's something I know a fair amount about, something I care about, and something that I have found a willingness of off a lot of our allies and friends to follow. So, I think that you know, we have to finish the job and nail it down.
 
BRUCE: (INAUDIBLE)
 
YOON (through translator): You need to repeat the question. The mic was not used. We could not interpret.
 
BIDEN: You need to repeat the questions.
 
YOON (through translator): Please use the microphone. We cannot provide interpretation if you did not use the microphone.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BRUCE: My apologies. Thank you. Did the recent leaks revealing that the U.S. was spying on South Korea come up at all in your discussions? And did President Biden provide you any assurances?
 
YOON (through translator): With regard to that, we are communicating between our two countries and we are sharing necessary information. I believe that an investigation is underway in the United States. So, various and complex variables are always in play. We need time to wait for the investigation results by the United States and we plan to continue to communicate on the matter.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This will be the last question.
 
KIM HAK TAE, REPORTER, FINANCIAL NEWS (through translator): I'm from Financial News. My name is Kim Hak Tae. My question goes to both of you. My first one goes to President Yoon first. During the state visit, you said that the alliance has strengthened cutting-edge industries, to cutting-edge science, and also, investments in businesses have been some of the outcomes.
 <br>[14:15:03]
 
These are some positives, however, to -- in the -- each individual of the public. How will this have a long-term impact? What will be the direct benefits felt?
 
And to President Biden. In celebration of the 70th anniversary of the ROK-U.S. Alliance, I know that the atmosphere is really positive. However, Korean businesses, especially because of the CHIPS Act and the IRA are on edge, what message can you send to the Korean companies to really make sure and tell them that this is not something to worry about?
 
YOON (through translator): The technology and cooperation between the ROK and the U.S. and also in partnerships in cutting-edge industries in science and technology, it was your first question. So, that is about really strengthening the competitiveness of our two countries. And it will enhance the productivity and to create added value -- high added value.
 
These are the types of products that are going to be produced. And from the perspective of the public for each individual. In that process, they will reap the benefits wide and comprehensive that will stem from these industries and investments in these industries, for example, from job creation as well. 
 
And above all, the future generations will be given the determination and will to take on new challenges and embrace opportunities in our industry so that they can continue to prosper and grow and become more abundant in the future.
 
BIDEN: The reassurances that it's overwhelming in our interest for Korea to do well. No, it is. It's very much in America's interest that Korea does well in the Pacific -- very well because they are one of our most valued partners.
 
And so, I think the combination of growing democracies and the democratic institutions as well as their economies, is overwhelmingly to the benefit of the United States, whether it is in South Korea or it's in Australia, in the Deep South Pacific. And so, I think that there's a reason -- overwhelming reason.
 
Plus, in addition to that, we're increasing the number of student exchanges, access to more information between our folks, educating our people, as well as we're going to be cooperating in everything from space to technology to medicine. And so, there are so many opportunities we have. 
 
And I don't think we -- at least we don't, and I don't think so far, most of the South Korean companies believe that there's somehow a U.S. effort to slow them down, prevent their growth, or anything like that.
 
We'd like to see them grow. And I mean that sincerely. It's overwhelmingly in the U.S. interest for South Korea to do very well economically.
 
It's overwhelmingly in our interest because it has -- and lastly, you know, I think we underestimate the example that South Korea sets. Here, you have a nation that is significant but is not a nation of two, three, four hundred thousand people making the kind of exchanges they're making. It gives other smaller nations hope to believe that if they have democratic institutions and commitment and an -- and an impact on industries, that in fact are the cutting edge industries, and new sciences and technology, including AI and other things, that there's a future for them.
 
And I think that's what this is about. And so, we view South Korea's economic growth as a benefit to the United States, as well as freedom around the world. Thank you all so very much. Appreciate it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Distinguished guests, please remain in your seats until the official delegations have departed.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN ANCHOR: You've been watching President Biden with South Korea's President Yoon taking questions from reporters at the White House after holding significant talks over relations between the two countries, and announcing a key new agreement focused on deterring North Korea's nuclear program. President Biden answering important questions about that, and also about his own political prospects.
 
One day after announcing that he was running for reelection, President Biden asked directly about his age. He would be 86 years old if he left the White House after a second term. The president's saying that number doesn't register with me, and admitting that he took a long hard look at his age before he decided to run.
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR: Yes. That'd be the other issue here is just the open discussion of other dangers of nuclear conflict, right? I mean, the essence of these talks here is the U.S. bringing North -- South Korean leaders into the decision-making progress on the process on any response to a potential North Korean nuclear attack on South Korea, basically saying you're in the fold.
 <br>[14:20:01]
 
They didn't square -- specify exactly how they're in that decision- making process. But also issuing a stark warning to South -- to North Korea. He said that a nuclear attack on the U.S. or South Korea will result in the end of whatever regime is responsible. That's to say you strike, we will strike back, and it'll all be over
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN ANCHOR: And the kind of marry those two issues and actually, I thought it was interesting. He's sort of -- he was saying the next three to four years are going to determine what the next three to four decades look at. And clearly, he feels that he is uniquely positioned to orient the U.S. in the direction that he thinks it should be when it comes to this autocracy versus democracy battle that he's talking about.
 
And this meeting today with South Korea is a part of that. This isn't just about North Korea. It's about what Iran and China and Russia are looking at as they see what happens today at the White House.
 
DAVID SANGER, CNN POLITICAL &amp; NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: I think there were three sorts of really big issues that jumped out at me. First, before he talked about nuclear weapons, the president talked about investments in semiconductors and artificial intelligence to say that the relationship with South Korea was so much deeper than just the North Korea issue.
 
He let President Yoon describe in detail this arrangement about a consultation on response to North Korea. That could be because it's more important politically to President Yoon to be able to do that, and to be able to back away from his own suggestion earlier this year that South Korea might try to get its own nuclear weapons, which by the way, it did try 40 years ago and the U.S. got in the way of it.
 
And I think the third really interesting thing to come out of it was his election comment. Because he was basically saying, look, I'm not going to run away from the fact that I'm 80 now and would be 86. He was s going to say to compare me to how I'm doing versus the competition. And that's sort of a subtle way of saying Donald Trump's not a lot -- a lot younger -- 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
SANGER: -- and is a bigger problem.
 
SCIUTTO: By the way, he's not the only person who looks at the rage and says they can't quite recognize that age. They're not willing to -- not -- willing to do acknowledge how high -- (INAUDIBLE) -- 
 
SANGER: I think no one did do that, Jim. Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: You know my present company accepts it. Kylie, but it -- but it is notable because of the connection between the political point and the national security environment.
 
KYLIE ATWOOD CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: I mean, that conflict between autocracies and democracies is a key part of his political message. That's the way he frames the U.S. position in the world under his leadership. But let's not eliminate, that's also how he views the other guy as he -- as he refers to him in terms of his -- 
 
ATWOOD: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: -- well, a possible opponent in 2024.
 
ATWOOD: Certainly, we hear it as central to his foreign policy agenda when it comes to any country, right? I mean, it's -- you know, getting together with our allies, to take on our adversaries, and also confronting our adversaries really directly where we need to.
 
But I also -- you know, coming back to what he said on the political front just for a second there, when it comes to Trump, he also told the reporter that he would still be running even if Trump weren't. And I think that that's key here because I think a lot of folks talk about President Biden making this decision to run because he thinks he's the only one who can be the former president.
 
He's trying to reposition that discussion right now. And he's trying to say -- you know, he said I'm excited about the prospects of what I can do. He wasn't saying that this is only because of the former president, which I just think is an interesting point.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. And not just the negative framing of it.
 
ATWOOD: Right. SCIUTTO: a positive frame -- (INAUDIBLE) -- 
 
KEILAR: David Sanger, and Kylie Atwood, thank you so much for the conversation.
 
ATWOOD: Yes.
 
KEILAR: We do appreciate it.
 
And the race to avoid economic disaster. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy changes his debt ceiling bill as he is struggling to get enough GOP votes to pass it. But he claims they still can pass this bill today. So, what is in it? We have that ahead.
 
And Trump accuser, E. Jean Carroll taking the stand and recounting in pretty graphic detail the alleged assault by the former president. We're live from the courthouse.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:27:51]
 
SCIUTTO: Welcome back to CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
Right now, House Speaker Kevin McCarthy is wheeling and dealing, or trying to do with his fellow Republicans. Overnight, he made two major concessions to the debt ceiling bill in a push to get it passed today. But even if he can ram this legislation through the House, it doesn't go much further than their Democrats, of course, control the Senate. President Biden has already vowed to veto it.
 
In the meantime, though, inaction is putting the country on the brink potentially of a financial crisis. Experts warned the U.S. could default on its debt as early as June if they don't come to an agreement.
 
CNN's Manu Raju is live from Capitol Hill. So, Manu, I'll keep asking this question. Does McCarthy have the votes? But even if he does get them, what happens to this proposal?
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That is really the big question because there's no answer to that yet. Because there is not much time to raise the national debt limit to get a deal that is capacitive, the Republican House and the Democratic Senate and also get signed by the president. Because there are no bipartisan negotiations happening which is why the speaker is moving forward on a bill on his own to try to get all Republicans in line behind this proposal.
 
Somebody has been worked on behind the scenes for months to implicate -- including a range of conservative priorities, spending cuts across the board, and trying to limit defections. He cannot afford more than four Republican defections in the narrowly divided House. At the moment, the Republican leadership is confident that today they will get the votes to pass this measure. Just moments ago, I spoke to Nancy Mace, who had -- is a Republican from South Carolina. She has signaled for some time that she is likely to vote against this bill, which said it did not go far enough to cut the debt. But then just moments ago, she met with the Speaker of the House, came out, and said that she supports this bill now because of commitments that McCarthy gave to deal with the budget issues and budget reforms going forward. Something that she said will be enough for her to vote for this package.
 
Now, the question will be what will happen next? And talking to some members of the Republican conference, they're willing to vote for this bill because it includes a slew of spending cuts but they're concerned about future compromises.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN HERN (R-OK): I would like for it to be more conservative than it is right now. I think it's a -- it's a happy compromise with our conference.
 
REP. RALPH NORMAN (R-SC): I want to double what was in there.