Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Massive Team To Patrol Skies And Ground Around The Big Game; Adidas: Split With Kanye West Could Cost $1.3 Billion In Sales; Only 20 States With Laws Requiring Schools To Have Life-Saving AEDs. Aired 6-7a ET

Aired February 12, 2023 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[06:00:30]
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning, everyone, and welcome to CNN THIS MORNING. I'm Amara Walker.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN ANCHOR: Hey, Amara, I'm Boris Sanchez. And then there were three. For the third time in a week, U.S. fighter jets have shot down something over North America, this time over Canada. What we know about this one and the coordination between the United States and Canada to bring it down.
 
WALKER: More than five days after that deadly earthquake struck Turkey and Syria, more survivors are being pulled from the rubble. The latest on the recovery and rescue efforts there and why officials have detained people responsible for the construction of those buildings.
 
SANCHEZ: Plus, with kickoff just hours away, security is at an all- time high ahead of Super Bowl LVII. The major operation underway to keep fans safe.
 
WALKER: Plus, a pricey breakup. Why Adidas' decision to drop Ye could cost the company more than $1 billion coming up on CNN THIS MORNING.
 
It is Sunday, everyone, February 12th. Good morning. Thank you for waking up with us. Boris and like that, you were gone. You were here yesterday but --
 
SANCHEZ: Just like that, right back in D.C. Great to be with you on a split screen though, Amara. Up first this morning, it's a bird, it's a plane, it's we don't really know. Another unidentified object shot down over North American airspace, this time alongside President Biden it was Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau that gave the order. The White House says the two leaders discussed the importance of recovering the object to figure out who it belonged to and exactly what it was doing.
 
WALKER: Canadian authorities say the object was shot done about 100 miles from the Canadian U.S. border over Canadian territory in central Yukon. Now, this incident marks the third time in a week that U.S. fighter jets have shot down an object in North American airspace. It follows the shoot down of another unidentified object Friday over Alaska and the downing of that suspected Chinese spy balloon off the Carolina coast last week.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says that Canadian forces are going to lead the operation to recover the object. For more on that coordination between the United States and Canada let's bring in CNN White House reporter Jasmine Wright who is live for us at the White House as I clear my throat. Jasmine, this is the third time that President Biden has had to confront this kind of situation in just about a week. Walk us through how this latest incident played out.
 
JASMINE WRIGHT, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, Boris, Amara. Look, President Biden and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau they took a very rare step yesterday to jointly authorize the shooting down of another unidentifiable object here. And I want to walk you through some of these details because it's pretty -- a wild ride here as now we are at the third instance in which President Biden has had to do something like this.
 
So according to the Pentagon, NORAD first detected this object flying around Alaska Friday evening. It then went over into Canadian airspace, which they continued monitoring, the Canadians then began monitoring, all really kind of jointly coming together to observe this object. Now, on Saturday after President Biden and Justin Trudeau were briefed they really got on a phone call and decided out of an abundance of caution after being briefed on it that it was the best option to shoot it down.
 
Now, eventually American fighter jet -- an F-22 actually was the one to shoot it down over Canadian airspace about 100 miles off the border there. And so, now Canadians says that they are handling the recovery. But some of the details here are a bit different than the lack of details that we have gotten about Friday's object and that Chinese spy balloon.
 
Again, we don't know if any of these are all related but the Canadians said, and I'm going to read this word because it's kind of hard to read, that it was cylindrical, right? So, kind of like a cylinder, smaller than the suspected Chinese balloon that was shot down last weekend.
 
Now, of course, there are still so many unanswered questions about all of these different objects, obviously, now floating in the sky here. But of course, this is the president's third time now in just a week having to deal with this. So, we are also looking to the White House to talk about what are the next steps in terms of what they are monitoring, if there are more, and, obviously, what they have been able to find out.
 <br>[06:05:00]
 
WALKER: Yes, and we're also learning that the pilots who observed that object shot down over Alaska, they gave conflicting accounts of what they saw. What are you hearing about that?
 
WRIGHT: Yes, that's right. Part of the reason why as to that Friday object, because, obviously, at this point we have to differentiate them by days, as to that Friday object we have so little details. The Pentagon has been really cautious about putting it out because those pilots on those two different trips that they took to kind of survey have come back with varying different things.
 
One pilot really said that -- or not one pilot, some pilots claim that the object interfered with their sensors. Others didn't. Of course, some pilots claimed that they couldn't see how really -- didn't see any propulsions, really questioning how it was able to stay 40,000 feet in the sky. And obviously some pilots said that they didn't see any surveillance equipment.
 
So, with all of these different varying accounts really, it has been hard for the Pentagon to pinpoint what this is and what's going on really to be able to tell the American people. But of course, those are the questions that we continue asking. As of now they have been doing the recovery effort for Friday's object for almost two days and of course the recovery in Canada is ongoing.
 
WALKER: Yes, very curious to say the least. Jasmine Wright, thank you very much, there at the White House.
 
So Canada's defense minister says the object shot down over Canadian territory was cylindrical and smaller than the suspected Chinese surveillance balloon that was shot down last week. Joining us now is CNN military analyst, retired Air Force Colonel Cedric Leighton. Colonel, good morning to you.
 
I mean, look, once again we have a mysterious object shot down over North American airspace. I mean, this is kind of happening now back to back, Friday and then Saturday. What are your thoughts on what in the world is going on here? Are you concerned at all?
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, good morning. Yes, you have to be a bit concerned because we are seeing this stuff occur all the time now it seems like. And the key thing here is I think we are seeing a lot of different calibrations going on within the military.
 
What I mean by that is the military is now much more sensitive, specifically NORAD, much more sensitized to these kinds of objects and to detecting them. And right now we are in kind of a shoot first, ask questions later mentality, and we are taking care of objects that we haven't readily identified, which is unlike what happened with the first object, the Chinese balloon that we shot down a week ago yesterday.
 
WALKER; Yes, and from our exclusive CNN reporting this monitoring system is quite new in the last year or so. So, are we seeing more things in the sky, or is it because we are just looking harder now?
 
LEIGHTON: Well, yes, we are definitely seeing more things because we are looking harder, I guess I would say it that way. And so, Amara, what you are looking at is, you know, a better system, more calibrated radar, better trained operators, people who are attuned to these kinds of anomalies, looking and judging what they are seeing. And then, of the course, we are willing to scramble jets to go after these objects and identify them or try to, at least. And that's, you know, what we're seeing.
 
We are seeing a renewed emphasis on this because the United States is, and Canada, are beginning to recognize that this is the new path, perhaps, of surveillance activity. In other words, that, you know, perhaps China and Russia are getting together to do something. Perhaps it's just China. We don't know yet. But the basic idea is the surveillance picture has changed and they are using different altitudes potentially to go after American and Canadian targets in terms of an intelligence collection picture.
 
WALKER: So in terms of theories, possibly China you are saying or Russia. But what about something less sinister as, you know, someone just trying to fly objects in the air as a hoax?
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, that is absolutely possible. And that's why these investigations need to be very thorough and very carefully calibrated. I think, you know, judging where this has happened leads me to believe it's more of a state sponsored activity as opposed to a private entity. But you can't preclude the possibility that there is a private entity or that is somebody is engaging in, you know, a kind of hoax, although it would have to be pretty elaborate in order to fly something at 40,000 feet or more.
 
WALKER: Any indications in your mind as to these two last flying objects being related versus all of them being related to the spy balloon?
 
LEIGHTON: Well, it certainly seems as if the last two objects are more closely aligned than the first object in terms of the balloon. In other words, in terms of, you know, their capabilities, their size, the altitudes at which they flew.
 <br>[06:10:06]
 
The last two flew at 40,000 feet. We are not quite sure about the one over Alaska exactly what it looked like. But the cylindrical object that the Canadian defense minister described in her press conference yesterday, that kind of leads me to believe that that was a payload associated with a balloon or something like that.
 
So, we'll see what the investigation says. But to me that cylindrical object could very well have been, you know, some kind of a collection system. It could also have been, you know, something else, some kind of a sensor system for weather or other kinds of data.
 
WALKER: Yes, I wonder if the investigation from the Chinese spy balloon will, you know, help give us answers about these last two unidentified objects flying in the sky this weekend. And with that said, efforts to recover pieces of this three buses size spy balloon that was shot down over the Atlantic last week, that's still underway. I am just wondering how much valuable intelligence do you believe the Chinese were able to gather on that mission compared to the intelligence the U.S. will have once the payload has been recovered and analyzed?
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, that's a really great question, Amara. I think the basic idea, if we can, you know, believe what the Pentagon has told us, they were able to shut down or at least modify a lot of the communications that would normally be going along the flight path of the Chinese balloon. So, if that's the case, I think, that we can be pretty safe in saying that once the analysis is completed, assuming that the pieces can be put back together again in a meaningful way, I think the U.S. intelligence community gained a lot more than the Chinese gained from that particular over flight simply from the very standpoint that now we know what the system is, or at least hope to know what the system is, how it's connected and what it's collecting. So, that becomes a critical element.
 
The other thing, of course, is, you know, when you look at the other two objects, I think, a lot more forensic investigation will have to take place before we can safely say what those are. I should also caution that we won't know immediately what these kinds of things can do. It will take a while before we get to that point.
 
WALKER: Yes. So much of this is unsettling, mostly because we just don't have many answers at this point. Colonel Cedric Leighton, appreciate your expertise. Thank you so much.
 
LEIGHTON: You bet, Amara. Anytime.
 
SANCHEZ: Still ahead this morning, an update for you from the Middle East where rescuers are still digging through the rubble of buildings leveled by a powerful earthquake that struck Syria and Turkey, and despite the odds they are still finding survivors days after the quake. We are going to take you live to Turkey with the latest next.
 
Plus, we will also take you inside that massive security operation underway ahead of the kickoff of Super Bowl LVII. Kickoff just a few hours away. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:17:12]
 
SANCHEZ: Search and rescue efforts are now turning into recovery efforts as crews are searching for earthquake survivors in Turkey and Syria. More than 28,000 people, 28,000 people have been killed and tens of thousands injured after a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck the region on Monday. Officials are calling it the area's worst natural disaster in the past century.
 
WALKER: And to think the death toll may continue to rise. This morning a 27-year-old was pulled from a collapsed building after 140 hours under the rubble, more than five days now, as crews carried him in a stretcher. He waved his hands and said, God is great.
 
CNN's Nada Bashir joining us now from Istanbul. Nada, we have been saying this, rescuers know they are racing against the clock. But some organizations have paused their work. What's happening?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: This is certainly still a race against the clock. These remarkable miraculous rescues that we are seeing six days on from the earthquake are a reminder for so many hoping for any sign of life from their loved ones still missing beneath the rubble. But as you said there, we are beginning to see some international search and rescue teams suspending their operations temporarily due to security concerns within Turkey.
 
We have already heard from search and rescue teams from both Germany and Austria. They say that they had to temporarily ask their teams to return to base, though still within Turkey, until the situation is deemed safe again with reports of clashes between different groups within Turkey.
 
The Turkish authorities themselves have highlighted criminal activity and looting taking place in some of these areas. The Austrian team has been quite clear that their team didn't directly come under attack or face any direct risks, but simply the circumstances made their work somewhat more difficult.
 
We are also learning from a search and rescue team which traveled into Turkey from Israel that they had received credible and verified evidence and intelligence that they may come under direct threats. And so have suspended their operations and are heading back to Israel after supporting that search and rescue effort. But at this stage Germany and Austria have temporarily halted their operations.
 
But look, that search and rescue effort is still continuing and we are still seeing remarkable signs of life, rescues taking place in southeastern Turkey. We saw one video emerging of a mother and her 18- year-old son who were rescued overnight on Saturday after being trapped beneath the rubble for 134 hours, a remarkable rescue there. And that was actually with the help of a search and rescue team traveling all the way from Los Angeles.
 <br>[06:20:00]
 
They are continuing to support the rescue effort. But of course, there is also the difficult reality now as the days pass by, we are, of course, expecting the death toll to continue to climb and those signs of life are growing far and few between over the days.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, incredibly difficult situation there. Nada Bashir reporting, thank you so much.
 
While earthquake relief from around the world increasingly is flowing into Turkey getting help into Syria is far more complicated. The nation's now 12-year civil war means that rebel-controlled areas in the hard-hit northern part of Syria have seen little to no aid.
 
Joining us now to discuss that aspect of this disaster is Charles Lister. He is a senior fellow and director of the Countering Terrorism and Extremism program at the Middle East Institute. Charles, thanks so much for sharing part of your Sunday morning with us.
 
Let's start with Syrian President Bashar al Assad saying that sanctions are preventing western resources from entering Syria. Critics in the West say that this isn't about sanctions. So, what's really preventing aid from getting in? CHARLES LISTER, SENIOR FELLOW, MIDDLE EAST INSTITUTE: Yes. So, first off, thank you for having me. You are absolutely right. There is no correlation between sanctions from the United States and our other like-minded partners around the world and the delivery of humanitarian aid. Sanctions are explicitly designed not to have an effect.
 
And, you know, even more important than that fact, the United Nations maintains a multibillion-dollar a year aid program coordinated through the Syrian capital Damascus controlled and influenced by the regime. Ninety-one percent of that is funded by the sanctioning entities, including the United States. So, there would be no aid if it wasn't for the very same countries who were sanctioning the regime for its war crimes.
 
The real obstacles are political. The regime, of course, as distasteful and as evil as it has been maintains the status as a sovereign government. So, within the United Nations it has a great deal of leverage and it puts the U.N. under a good deal of pressure and restrains or constrains its ability to deliver aid across the border, in other words, from foreign neighboring countries like Turkey.
 
And on day one after the earthquake, the regime said all earthquake relief has to come through Damascus. It cannot enter the country from elsewhere and that put the U.N. under a great deal of pressure. The U.N. should have done what it was right, but it has more or less succumbed to the pressure imposed by the regime.
 
SANCHEZ: I guess their sense is that aid getting there is imperative. It's the top priority. And so, if it goes through Damascus, it might get to other places like Idlib. Is that likely to happen, though?
 
LISTER: Well, you'd like to think so. But over the past 12 years, the regime has maintained a consistent siege and starve strategy against all of its opponents across the country. So, no. If that aid goes into Damascus, there is an extraordinarily slim chance of any of it ever going to opposition held areas of the country.
 
You know, to give you an example of this, in 2022, there was a big push by the United Nations to see if it could get more aid from Damascus to the opposition-held northwest, the hardest hit region by this earthquake. And that kind of aid is called cross line. In other words, it remains inside Syria but it goes to other areas of the country.
 
Now, of all of the aid that made its way to northwestern Syria in 2022, 99.6 percent of it came cross border from Turkey and only 0.4 percent made its way from Damascus. So, the regime has an atrocious track record of providing humanitarian assistance or allowing humanitarian assistance into its opponent areas. And so, no, there is no reason to put any faith into what the regime said. This is just the regime's opportunity to turn the conversation into one that essentially paves a path towards its normalization within the international community and hoping the world just forgets or ignores 12 years of horrendous war crimes. SANCHEZ: So in a very cynical way, is it fair to say that this devastating earthquake with 28,000 people killed is a golden opportunity for Bashar al Assad, he intends to use it that way?
 
LISTER: One hundred percent. It's absolutely tragic to be saying that, but this is an awful, awful regime in Syria. And so, yes, this natural disaster virtually unprecedented in scale offers an unprecedented opportunity to convince or coerce the international community into normalizing their relationships with him.
 
Now, the regime has an historic track record of being very stubborn and shortsighted. And so, there is a fairly good chance for those of us who believe the regime should not be normalized, that it will be stubborn enough to prevent that kind of a path being paved.
 <br>[06:25:04]
 
But it is a potentially golden opportunity. And the international community must remain cognizant of continuing to provide aid to all Syrians, as we are doing, as we are funding, as we are providing it, but also maintaining the reality of the past 12 years. And just let us not forget that the international community has more evidence of crimes committed by the regime than we had against Hitler and the Nazi Party after World War II. We are talking about an enormous scale of crimes.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, important to remember all that has transpired in Syria, even in light of this natural disaster, which, as you put it, is tragically potentially being exploited by Bashar al Assad. Charles Lister, we have to leave the conversation there. We are so grateful to have you this morning. Thank you.
 
LISTER: Thank you.
 
SANCHEZ: Of course. For more information on how you might be able to lend a helping hand to the victims of the earthquake in Turkey and Syria, we have provided a ton of links and you can vet them yourself at CNN.com/impact.
 
WALKER: All right. Up next, one game for all the marbles. The Chiefs and the Eagles set to face off for the Lombardi Trophy in a matter of hours. We are going to take you to Glendale for a Super Bowl preview after the break.
 <br>[06:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: Yes, today is the day. Tens of thousands of fans will be in Glendale, Arizona, for the Super Bowl. 
 
SANCHEZ: And with big events like this, security is always top of mind. Federal and local agencies have already launched a massive operation to secure the event, both from the ground and the air. CNN's Rosa Flores has a sneak peek inside Super Bowl security.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Whether a U.S. Customs and Border Protection helicopter -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're flying about 500 feet. 
 
FLORES: -- a U.S. Air Force K.C. 135 Stratotanker -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All clear. 
 
FLORES: And an F-16 fighter jet doing over Glendale, Arizona. They are tasked with guarding the skies over Super Bowl LVII. With nearly 200,000 fans expected for the big game between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles, security is a multi-agency effort. 
 
What types of threats does the FBI prepare for when it comes to the super bowl?
 
AKIL DAVIS, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE, FBI PHOENIX FIELD: Yes, wide variety. Anything from active shooters, to explosive threats, IED threats, to bomb threats, suspicious packages. 
 
FLORES: From this operation center, the FBI alongside more than 40 federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies will use these 360- degree cameras to have eyes on every inch of the stadium. Scott Brown is the federal top official in charge of security. 
 
SCOTT BROWN, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE, HOMELAND SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS: I was in New York for 9/11. I have seen the devastating impacts of terrorism on our soil. I am deeply committed, as are all my partners, to making sure we don't have an incident like that here.
 
FLORES: Sky patrol in the hands of U.S. Customs and Border Protection Air and Marine Operations. 
 
When your teams are patrolling, what's the thing they're looking for?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to look for anything out of the ordinary. It could be anything from smoke to disruptions. 
 
FLORES: CBP Air and Marine Operations will be able to fly over the stadium during the big game, but no other aircraft will because the FAA will be imposing a flight restriction that's 30 miles wide. 
 
Those flight restrictions will be enforced by NORAD, the North American Defense Space Command with these Air Force F-16 fighter jets.
 
ANDREW SCOTT, MAJOR, 601ST AIR OPERATIONS CENTER: Since 9/11, we have been able to safely escort out any aircraft that violated restricted airspace. 
 
FLORES: NORAD is taking no chances. This K.C. 135 Stratotanker is part of the fleet on hand. 
 
This aircraft can carry up to 200,000 pounds of fuel. There are ten tanks onboard, including some on the wings.
 
And it can refuel an F-16 midair in minutes.
 
ANDREW SEE, CAPTAIN, NORAD: So, it prevents us from having to return for fuel on the ground. So,it's absolutely critical. 
 
FLORES: The fighter jets refuel from a receptacle that's right behind the pilot. 
 
SEE: And my job as the pilot is to remain within the basket in a safe, controlled, stable position.
 
FLORES: If the FAA's flight restrictions are broken, NORAD or CPB Air and Marine Operations will engage. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our role in the event of a criminal event is to we bring special response teams to the scene. 
 
FLORES: The message from law enforcement to anyone thinking about committing a crime during the super bowl is simple.
 
DAVIS: Don't do it. You're going to wind up in cuffs.
 
FLORES: Rosa Flores, CNN, Glendale, Arizona. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANCHEZ: We hope that kickoff goes off without a hitch. So, let's talk about the game itself. The Chiefs and Eagles is 12 hours -- just 12 hours away from kickoff.
 
WALKER: Andy Scholes is live for us dark and early. And I know it's a bit cold out there from outside the stadium. Andy, no one knows these two franchises better than Kansas City's coach Andy Reid. 
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR (on camera): Yes, that's right Amara and Boris. And you know, this game, on top of being as close as it gets on paper, just so many amazing storylines. You got Patrick Mahomes and Jalen Hurts, the first ever two Black quarterbacks to square off against each other in the Super Bowl. Then you got Travis and Jason Kelce, the first two brothers to square off against each other in the Super Bowl. And then, of course, you got Andy Reid going up against his former team.
 
Reid coached the Philadelphia Eagles for 14 season. He got them to five championship games, including a Super Bowl, but just could never get the eagles over the top. And immediately after leaving Philly, he went to K.C. And in his ten years in Kansas City, you know, Reid has brought many former staff from Philly to the Chiefs including their now-general manager. 
 
So, many are calling this the Andy Reid bowl. And he says it's certainly going to be special to face his former team. 
 <br>[06:35:08]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDY REID, HEAD COACH, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: I have 14 great years there. I loved every minute of it. It's a great organization. I still am close with the people there. It's great to see the kids that we had drafted that are now these veteran players, all pro players on that team. I had a chance to give them a hug last night and now we go our separate ways. We get ready to play.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: Yes, Super Bowl week has wrapped up. All that's left is the game. But there were certainly lots of events and parties throughout the week including Michael Rubin's big Fanatics bash. And I went around and got all the celebrities' predictions for the big game. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: With the chiefs, this is the AFC team, a team that beat us. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I am going with the eagles so far just because I lost. It's a little bit of pity right now.
 
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL, FORMER NBA PLAYER: I like the Eagles. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are excited for real, but we're more excited for the Eagles to win the Super Bowl tomorrow night.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to win the Super Bowl. That's for sure. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, that's not the worry. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I am always rooting for the  Patriots.
 
Where's my team? But did I leave the team? 
 
SCHOLES: I know you're Philly guys. I know who you are picking, but just tell me how do you think it's going to go on Sunday?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's going to be a blast. It's probably it's going to be like 31-12. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I can't go against Mahomes. I just think the experience is going to do it. 
 
SCHOLES: Who you got on Sunday?
 
D.J. KHALED, MUSICIAN: Rihanna. I am going with Rihanna all the way. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: For the sake of this being Jake Tapper's network, I'll choose the Eagles.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SCHOLES: Look, guys, they got a lot of good predictions there. I will have to say, I think of all the people I talked to, it's like 90 percent Eagles. So, you know, take that for what you will -- whatever you think it's going to be. Personally, I pick the Chiefs to win before the season and I am sticking with it. Patrick Mahomes and the Chiefs is my pick. 
 
WALKER: I wouldn't have known because you are, you know, conspicuously wearing green -- a green jacket, Andy. 
 
SCHOLES: Yes, but it's the  -- it's the only puffer jacket I own. Yes, it does look like an Eagles' green jacket. You're right.
 
WALKER: Somebody said it had something red. 
 
SANCHEZ: Fair enough. Fair enough. Go Dolphins!
 
WALKER: Andy, thank you. 
 
SANCHEZ: Andy Scholes, thanks so much. 
 
WALKER: Go, Rihanna! I'm with him. Go, Rihanna! 
 
SANCHEZ: All right. 
 
WALKER: All right, coming up, next hour, one of the best parts of the game, the Super Bowl ads. We're going to talk about how advertisers are using nostalgia to sell their products and why you might see more beer ads than usual. 
 
SANCHEZ: And still to come, Adidas cutting ties with Kanye West over his antisemitic remarks last year. That decision could come at a hefty cost. Just how hefty? We'll tell you in just a few minutes. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:40:00]
 
WALKER: New this morning, Adidas says cutting ties with Kanye West over his antisemitic remarks last year could cost them more than $1 billion in sales this year. 
 
SANCHEZ: And the sportswear companies deal with Beyonce's Ivy Park brand not doing so hot either. CNN's Vanessa Yurkevich has the numbers. 
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Yes, Amara and Boris, this is a very costly breakup for Adidas. The company ended their partnership with Kanye West or Ye back in October after a series of antisemitic comments the rapper made. Now, this is projected to cost Adidas $1.3 billion in revenue this year because it can't sell Yeezy clothing or shoes. 
 
The company said they could rebrand some of the merchandise, which may help save them a couple hundred million dollars. Otherwise, they will have to destroy the merchandise or they could end up donating it. Now, this partnership with Adidas and Yeezy was once extremely lucrative. Now, Adidas possibly $1.3 billion in the hole.
 
And new reporting from The Wall Street Journal says that another partnership is on the rocks. They report sales of Beyonce's Ivy Park line were down 50 percent last year compared to 2021 generating about $40 million in revenue when the projection was closer to $250 million. Adidas responded to the Wall Street Journal's reporting by saying that the partnership is, "strong and successful." And Beyonce hasn't commented beyond posting a new Ivy Park merchandise drop this week on Instagram. But according to the Wall Street Journal, Ivy Park is projected to do $65 million in sales this year. That's a big difference from the $335 million the company was previously targeting. 
 
So, this really begs the question, are these celebrity deals profitable for brands? At least for Adidas, Ye, and Beyonce, the numbers, Amara and Boris, paint a very different picture. 
 
WALKER: Well, it sure does. Vanessa, thank you. 
 
And coming up, after he went into cardiac arrest on the field earlier this year, trainers and first responders jumped into action to save the life of Bill's Safety Damar Hamlin. But what if he had still been in high school? Dr. Sanjay Gupta investigates if schools are doing enough to prepare. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:45:00]
 
WALKER: This past week, NFL Union doctors say they were optimistic that Buffalo Bills' Damar Hamlin would play again after experiencing a cardiac arrest on the field last month. 
 
SANCHEZ: It is really an incredible comeback, but what if he had been still in high school? Would he have gotten the same treatment? Our Dr. Sanjay Gupta investigates. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go ahead and go over the cot. I don't like how he went down. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to need everybody. All call! All call!
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): When Buffalo Bills Safety Damar Hamlin collapsed on the field in January, Pete Laake immediately thought about his son, Peter.
 
PETE LAAKE, FATHER OF PETER LAAKE: It really brought back a lot of emotions, and it still does truthfully. 
 
GUPTA: Two years ago, then a high school freshman, Peter Lake was playing defense for the Loyola Dons against the McDonogh Eagles. He was right around the 20-yard line. What you are about to watch is the exact moment his heart stopped beating. PETER LAAKE, EXPERIENCED CARDIAC ARREST: I went to the ball. I stepped
 
 in front of it and I just got hit. Like, I have done that many times before. 
 
JEREMY PARR, ASSISTANT ATHLETIC DIRECTOR, LOYOLA DONS: I kind of even winced in like that, just thinking in my head, oh, that one is going to hurt.
 
GUPTA: Jeremy Parr is the Assistant Athletic Director and the Head Athletic Trainer at Peter's school. That sunny day, he was watching diligently from the sidelines.
 
PARR: Because this shot was pretty hard, I was watching Peter instead of the course of the action of the game. 
 <br>[06:50:04]
 
PETER LAAKE: I started looking for what was going to happen next. And just like that, I got dizzy and I just like blacked out.
 
PARR: I could hear first he had some agonal breathing. So, it was like this gasping or gurgling for air. He is prone on the ground. I checked for a pulse and we didn't have one. 
 
GUPTA: The diagnosis, commotio cordis, a rare phenomenon with fewer than 30 cases reported every year. Now, let me show you exactly what happened to Peter. His heart here is contracting and relaxing. That's a normal rhythm. But at the exact millisecond, the heart needs to recharge before the next beat. That's this little bump here. The lacrosse ball hit the left side of his chest. As a result, his heart never got the chance to relax. It starts fibrillating instead. Peter goes into cardiac arrest. And the clock starts ticking.
 
What was that like for you?
 
PARR: I didn't have time to think. With no pulse, no breathing, we needed to get the AED and EMS activated as soon as possible. 
 
GUPTA: And in Peter's case, it all worked and fast, two to three minutes. But watching all this as a parent, I couldn't help but wonder, what if this were my kid's cool, your kid's school. As part of a CNN investigation, we learned that nowadays at least 20 states have laws requiring AED's. And in reality, about 70 to 80 percent of schools have at least one defibrillator on hand. But how accessible they are? That is the real issue we uncovered. 
 
What if it had happened, you know, a few miles away from here? 
 
PETE LAAKE: It would have been a totally different outcome. You can do CPR until you are blue in the face and it's never going to restart the heart. It is 100 percent access to an AED within a very timely period. 
 
GUPTA: It turns out where you live makes a big difference. For example, in Ohio and Michigan, more than 70 percent of public schools had AEDs, but in locations that simply couldn't be reached in time. In Oregon, just half of schools had an AED accessible within four minutes of all sports venues. In Vermont, despite 81 percent of schools having an AED, just 16 percent had been located at fields or arenas. And about half the time, they were in the school nurse's office or the lobby. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is an example of a portable -- 
 
GUPTA: We learned that athletic trainers are critical. In schools that had athletic trainers, we're more likely to have AEDs. The chance of survival from a cardiac arrest nearly doubled to over 80 percent if an athletic trainer or AED were used. But as things stand now, a third of the country's schools don't have anyone in that position.
 
PARR: All athletes should be afforded the same resources that we have here, that Division 1 athletes in college have and professional sports as well. 
 
GUPTA: That's the thing. Its availability and access. Both are crucially important. And it's one of the most important things you can do for your kids. Make sure AEDs are available and accessible in your kid's school. It saved Peter Laake's life and allowed for moments like this. 
 
(on camera): Now, a big question that comes up is cost. But these AEDs cost around 1,000 to $2,000 depending on the model, but that's not a yearly cost. They can last several years as long as you keep them charged. But a couple rules a thumb. You want to have at least one AED per 500 students. That seems to be the right number. And most importantly, as you heard there, they need to be not just available, but accessible, within two minutes preferably being able to get the AED and utilize it within just a couple of minutes. That makes all the difference and it can help save a life. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANCHEZ: Our thanks to Dr. Sanjay Gupta for that eye-opening report. 
 
Still ahead, East Coast rain, Appalachian snow, Southwest storms. A packed forecast when we can come back on CNN THIS MORNING.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:55:00]
 
SANCHEZ: Good morning and welcome to CNN THIS MORNING. I'm Boris Sanchez. 
 
WALKER: And I'm Amara Walker. Let's head over to weather as Allison Chinchar is standing by. I was confused. On the main screen, it's 7:00. No, it's 6:58. It's time to see Alli. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, false start. Five yards.
 
WALKER: Hi there! I love your sweater. Clouds and the blue sky. 
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST (on camera): You know, it started from -- I didn't -- neither of my team is playing in the Super Bowl so I had to pick like a neutral color so I went with blue. That's where it all really stem from. But yes, we have a lot of rain and even some snow to talk about for today.
 
Yes, snow as far south as places like Alabama and Georgia for today. Now, one thing we want to talk about though is this storm is going to slide up the East Coast in the next 24 hours, really impacting quite a few places. We talked about the snow. You have winter weather advisories and winter storm warnings in effect for several states where we anticipate that snow will accumulate. Because while the snow may be mixing in with areas of Georgia and Alabama, it's not expected to stick to the ground. 
 
North Carolina, Virginia, that's a different story. It's also not just snow, but also the potential for ice and accumulating ice not only on the roadways but also trees which could trigger power outages as well. We are only looking at up to a quarter of an inch, but in a lot of cases that is plenty to cause problems on the roadways as well as power outages. 
 
In terms of snowfall accumulation, your highest totals are going to be in the higher elevations, places like Boone, Asheville, Blowing Rock, areas of North Carolina and Southwestern Virginia where we could pick up four, five, even six inches of snow. Places really high in elevation, say like Mount Mitchell, now you're talking a foot -- a foot of snow potentially there. 
 <br>[07:00:00]