Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Ukraine Vows To Defend Bakhmut As Russia Tries To Encircle It; Iran Supreme Leader Calls Poisoning "Unforgivable Crime"; Four Americans Assaulted, Kidnapped In Mexican Town; China Warns Of Conflict If "U.S. Does Not Hit Brakes"; Thousands Homeless After Fire At Refugee Camp In Bangladesh. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired March 07, 2023 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:00:28]
 
LAILA HARRAK, CNN ANCHOR: Hello everyone, I'm Laila Harrak. 
 
Ahead on CNN NEWSROOM, digging in in Bakhmut. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy insists Ukraine is not withdrawing from the symbolically important city under Russian assault. 
 
Iran supreme leader calls it an unforgivable crime, threatening severe punishments for anyone responsible in the suspected mass poisoning of school girls.
 
And thousands forced to flee their homes now looking for new shelter after a fire rips through a Rohingya refugee camp. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Laila Harrak.
 
HARRAK: Ukraine is vowing to keep up the fight to defend the eastern city of Bakhmut even as Russian forces press on with their efforts to encircle it.
 
The fierce battle raging in and around Bakhmut for months has turned into urban combat with Ukrainian troops fighting on the streets. 
 
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says he's ordered the reinforcement of physicians inside the city saying no part of Ukraine can be abandoned. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): We defend and will defend every part of Ukraine. The time will come and we will liberate every city and village of our country. And we will hold the occupier accountable for every shot against Ukraine, for every meanness against Ukrainians.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: All this as Russian forces make gradual gains. New video shows fighters with the Wagner mercenary group taking down a Ukrainian flag and planting their own flag on top of a tank monument in the eastern part of Bakhmut.
 
Both sides have suffered significant losses in the battle. But according to one official, NATO intelligence estimates Russia has lost five times more soldiers in the fight for Bakhmut than Ukraine. CNN's Melissa Bell has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Ukrainian forces giving all they can to defend Bakhmut. Or what's left of it. After the longest battle of the war, one of the oldest cities in the Donbas lies in ruins.
 
VOLODYMYR NAZARENKO, UKRAINIAN NATIONAL GUARD (through translator): There were no orders. No decisions were made regarding withdrawal from Bakhmut. There have been no tactical changes. We are holding the defense.
 
BELL: Abandoned by more than 90 percent of its population over the course of the seven-month siege, only those who couldn't leave before are left.
 
The intense fighting means that only five to 10 people a day can now be evacuated, compared to the 500 to 600 a day when the evacuation started at the end of February, according to the city's deputy mayor.
 
The Russians throwing all they have at the city, says the deputy mayor. Heavy artillery, mortar fire, air strikes and a substantial commitment of ground forces: both regular soldiers and Wagner Mercenaries.
 
But Russian advances have come at huge cost. Wave after wave of Russian soldiers have been sent to their deaths. And Ukraine has accused Russia of exaggerating its gains, claiming they still control one of the major highways into Bakhmut, a life line for Ukrainian defenders, with one Ukrainian commander tweeting that there are many ways still to get into the city.
 
Analysts have questioned the importance of Bakhmut. But that has not stopped Moscow's intense campaign to capture the city, nor Ukraine's existential fight to keep it.
 
The unceasing barrage of artillery fire hasn't just killed or forced out most of the civilians. It's taken a huge toll on Ukrainian soldiers, too, as the battle turns to close-quarters street fighting.
 
But Ukraine continues its fierce fight for victory, even as Russian forces continue to close in on a city that's already a byword for Ukrainian resilience on the battlefield.
 
Melissa Bell, CNN, Kyiv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: Well, joining me now to discuss these latest developments, retired Australian Army Major General Mick Ryan, he's also an author and former commander at the Australian Defence College.
 
Sir, thank you so much for joining us.
 <br>[00:05:02]
 
Russian troops have been trying to capture Bakhmut now for months. In terms of cost benefit analysis, what is Moscow's calculation in wanting to capture Bakhmut and what kind of leverage would that give Russia?
 
MAJ. GEN. MICK RYAN (RET.), AUSTRALIAN ARMY: Well, hi Laila. I mean, there's very little strategic gain for Russia in this battle, or there's some political prestige as we can see playing out. 
 
But there's very little that they'll gain by capturing essentially a pile of rubble. It's not a town that can support a military force, and it really doesn't sit astride any major logistic hubs.
 
HARRAK: Now, for both the Ukrainians and the Russians, as you just pointed out, this is taking a symbolic importance and it seems to be outweighing its strategic significance. What are the war aims here? I mean, is it who can fight the longest?
 
RYAN: Well, there's both political and military imperatives on both sides. And it appears in this case, a political imperative, so outlying military imperatives. Ukrainians clearly feel there is more to gain by staying and fighting, even withdrawing. 
 
At some point, they're going to have to make a calculation about preserving that force and getting it out of there. Because they will have done all they can do, but they'll need that force for the offensives to come later.
 
HARRAK: Does the Ukrainians have what they need to hold off the Russians there?
 
RYAN: Well, the Russians appear to be throwing everything at it. And one of the reasons the Ukrainians may be staying is it's absorbing Russian forces that might be better used elsewhere with the Ukrainians intend to conduct offensive. 
 
So, you know, this is probably a daily calculation that the Chief of Staff Ukrainian Armed Forces is making with the staff and talking to the president. And that will change day to day I think.
 
HARRAK: Do you think Bakhmut is going the way of Mariupol in terms of loss of life, the wanton destruction and the inevitable loss to Russia?
 
RYAN: Well, Mariupol is one model, it's one way this battle could go because remember, in 2022, the Ukrainians never gave it up, they fought right until the end. 
 
Severodonetsk in the East may be a different model. They stayed there almost to the last but managed to extract their force. Either way, the Ukrainians have extracted a very, very large toll on
 
 the Russians. And they may need some kind of operational pause at the end of this like they did after Severodonetsk.
 
HARRAK: What do you think we're going to see over the next couple of months? And you know, we keep talking about an impending Russian spring offensive, but could it be already underway? 
 
RYAN: Well, I think the Russian Spring Offensive started probably back in January, it's been going slowly. It's a broad front approach, lots of pinprick attacks probably across five or six main locations where they hope to get some success. 
 
They're not been very successful so far, and at some point, they will culminate in that offensive. The Ukrainians have been absorbing the blows and waiting for the right time to launch their own offensives, which I expect we'll see in the coming months.
 
HARRAK: Mick Ryan, thank you so much for joining us. 
 
RYAN: Thank you. 
 
HARRAK: The Iranian government says it's trying to figure out what has sickened more than 5,000 schoolchildren over the past few months, mostly girls.
 
The head of a parliamentary committee calls them poisonings and says investigators are looking into possible motives. But Iran's interior ministry reports no sign of dangerous poison in any of the hospitalized students. One official claims more than 90 percent of the students symptoms were caused by anxiety.
 
Iran supreme leader says if it's proven that the students were poisoned, the predators -- the perpetrators rather, should be severely punished.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AYATOLLAH ALI KHAMENEI, IRANIAN SUPREME LEADER (through translator): This is a crime against the most innocent part of society meaning children, and it's causing fear and insecurity in the minds of society and concerns families. These are not small matters, these must be seriously pursued.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: The U.S. State Department is calling for an international fact finding mission to determine if the suspected poisonings are related to women and girls participating in protests.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NED PRICE, STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN: These reports of continued poisoning of school girls across Iran, they are unconscionable. These poisonings need to be stopped immediately. Women and girls in Iran and women and girls everywhere for that matter have a universal human right and has the universal right to education.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: Iran's deputy health minister says no deaths have been reported from the suspected poisonings and most children were released from the hospital within a few hours. More now from CNN's Nima Elbagir.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Furious parents outside in Education Office in Tehran challenging Iranian authorities desperate for answers. 
 <br>[00:10:09]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Right now, my 8-year-old is at home.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I am scared. I am scared.
 
ELBAGIR: After what is believed to be the worst day of incidents of suspected poisonings at girl's schools. These videos were filmed on Saturday which marks the start of the school week in Iran. For months now Iranian schoolgirls and their families have been speaking out about incidents of suspected poisoning.
 
The numbers of incidents reported to CNN in the dozens, then over the weekend, dozens - CNN was able to verify these new incidents using video and witness testimony across 10 provinces. The U.S. and others are calling for Iran's authorities to investigate these incidents. But Speaking to CNN medical sources, they have been barred by hospital administrators from sharing details of symptoms and test results even with the patient's parents. We dub this doctors voice for his safety.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm inside Iran. My phone is being monitored. I can't share any more with you.
 
ELBAGIR: Iran's interior minister after months of vague statements now says suspicious samples have been found and are being assessed at laboratories. Parents though say they don't trust authorities to investigate.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): To hell with this country and its rulers, we would be better off without a leader, this is our country. They don't know what they're doing. They don't even have medicine.
 
ELBAGIR: All the incidents begin in a similar manner as described to us by students and noxious smell and then.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I felt dizzy and fainted. I had dimness of vision and heart palpitations. All of us had identical symptoms, palpitations, my hands and legs were numb and frozen. I was shaken. We had tears coming out of our eyes.
 
ELBAGIR: With no one so far held to account and parents no closer to answers, many continue to risk their lives to challenge Iran's authorities.
 
Nima Elbagir, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
HARRAK: A group of U.S. Senators is demanding a U.N. investigation into secret Iranian torture centers exposed by CNN.
 
Members of the Foreign Relations Committee tweeted the discovery of the secret jails is the latest example of the cruelty of the Iranian regime. The international community needs to hold Tehran accountable for torturing its own citizens. 
 
CNN revealed last month that Iran was using more than three dozen black sites to brutalize anti-government protesters. Survivors and attorneys described electrocution, beatings, broken limbs and sexual violence. 
 
The FBI is seeking the public's help in finding four Americans who were assaulted and kidnapped in northeastern Mexico. They had traveled to the city of Matamoros on Friday just across the border from Brownsville, Texas. 
 
The FBI says unidentified gunman fired on the group traveling in a white minivan. They loaded them into a truck and took them away. 
 
Mexico's president discussed why the Americans were there.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDRES MANUEL LOPEZ OBRADOR, MEXICAN PRESIDENT (through translator): There are people from the United States who according to the information we have crossed the border to buy medicines in Mexico, and there was a confrontation between groups and they were detained.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: More now on the kidnappings from CNN's Josh Campbell.
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Special agent from the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation are working with authorities in Mexico to locate four Americans who are kidnapped after traveling Friday from Texas into Mexico. The FBI says that a group opened fire on these Americans eventually taking them captive. 
 
Now, a U.S. official familiar with the investigation tells me this appears to be a case of mistaken identity that law enforcement believes that a group of cartel members mistook these Americans for Haitian drug smugglers. 
 
As far as why the Americans were there, a source tells me that officials believe they were there to obtain some type of medical procedure. 
 
Of course, it's not uncommon for Americans and Canadians to travel to Mexico for example, for lower cost prescription drugs, for lower price medical procedures. 
 
That source told me that officials found inside the vehicle receipts indicating that there was some type of medical procedure that was planned. 
 
Now, I want to show you this video. I'll warn our viewers that this is graphic which you will -- are about to see. A source says that this was the aftermath of that incident where you see gunmen taking a group of people, putting them in the back of this white truck.
 
CNN cannot independently confirm that those individuals being loaded into the vehicle are indeed the Americans. But again, a source says that this is believed to be related to that incident.
 
As far as where this goes next, the Mexican government says that all agencies within the federal government as well as state authorities are working with their U.S. partners in order to try to locate these Americans. The FBI has announced a $50,000 reward for information leading to the location of these Americans as well as the identification of their captors.
 <br>[00:15:07]
 
Josh Campbell CNN, Los Angeles.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: Meanwhile, Mexican authorities have announced one of the biggest recent discoveries of migrant children traveling through Mexico. 
 
They say 103 unaccompanied minors, mostly from Guatemala were found in an abandoned truck trailer in the state of Veracruz. 212 adults were also inside along with 28 family members from Guatemala and El Salvador. The children are being placed in the custody of the family services system of Veracruz. The other migrants will be processed to determine their legal status in Mexico. 
 
Sharp warnings from China to the United States on everything from Taiwan to Russia to the balloon crisis, we'll have the takeaways from this highly choreographed news conference next. 
 
Plus, Rohingya refugees tried to salvage what little they have after a devastating fire rips through a refugee camp in Bangladesh, the latest ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK: Just a few hours ago, Japan's space agency aborted the launch of its new rocket and moments after liftoff. Scientists sent a self- destruct signal to the H3 rocket when they determined there was no possibility of achieving the mission. 
 
State broadcaster and HK reports that the second engine failed to ignite. Well, the rocket was supposed to carry a government satellite into orbit and take supplies to the International Space Station. China's Foreign Minister says there will surely be conflict and
 
 confrontation if the U.S. does not hit the brakes. He suggested the recent balloon crisis could have been avoided. 
 
And he also echoed accusations from the Chinese president saying the U.S. is trying to contain China's development. 
 
These digs came on the sidelines of China's National People's Congress, a key annual political event.
 
CNN's Kristie Lu Stout covering all of this for you live from Hong Kong. So good to see you, Kristie. It's one of China's biggest political events of the year. And today, China's Foreign Minister took the stage and not mincing his words.
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Not at all. In fact, you know, today at the National People's Congress, we heard from China's relatively new foreign minister Qin Gang and unbid these rising tensions between China and the United States and its allies. 
 
Qin Gang had some pretty sharp words. He said that the entire balloon crisis could have been avoided. He also accused the United States of plotting an Asia Pacific version of NATO that would risk a Ukraine style crisis breaking out in the region. And he also had this warning for the U.S. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[00:20:01]
 
QIN GANG, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): If the United States does not hit the brake, but continue to speed down the wrong path. No amount of guardrails can prevent derailing and there will surely be conflict and confrontation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STOUT: China's foreign minister also addressed the conflict in Ukraine, he called for peace talks to begin as soon as possible and said that China has not provided weapons to either side. 
 
He also addressed Taiwan, saying do not underestimate China. He said Taiwan is a matter for the Chinese people, and once again called for peaceful reunification with Taiwan. 
 
Now, further underscoring just the bitter divide that rising tensions between China and the U.S. and its allies. We also heard on Monday from the Chinese leader Xi Jinping, who made some very interesting remarks to a group of Chinese entrepreneurs at a business meeting. He basically accused directly the United States and its allies of containment. 
 
We had the statement and this is what the Chinese leader said he said, "The U.S. led Western countries have implemented all round containment and development and suppression against us, which has brought unprecedented severe challenges to China's development". The diplomatic rift between China and the U.S. is deepening over a
 
 host of issues. You have the balloon incident, the war in Ukraine, you have U.S. military support for Taiwan, and also on top of that, access to technology like artificial intelligence, and semiconductors. 
 
At the start of the National People's Congress, we heard from the outgoing Premier Li Keqiang, who doubled down on this call for self- reliance for China, especially self-reliance in the high tech sector. Back to you.
 
HARRAK: Kristie Lu Stout reporting for you from Hong Kong. Thanks so much, Kristie. 
 
South Korea's government is facing backlash over a plan to compensate some of its citizens who were forced to work for Japanese companies during World War II. 
 
In Seoul, crowds of protesters gathered outside City Hall to condemn the plan. They say it doesn't go far enough to hold Japan accountable, in part because the deal doesn't require Japanese companies to contribute to the reparations. 
 
Well, the move reflects a broader effort by Seoul to smooth relations with the Tokyo in the face of rising threats from China and North Korea. 
 
The announcements was also welcomed in the U.S., a key ally of both countries, with President Joe Biden hailing it as "groundbreaking". 
 
The U.N. Secretary General has tweeted he's heartbroken after a fire ripped through Rohingya refugee camp in Bangladesh. Some 12,000 people are now homeless, many of them were already struggling to survive after fleeing their homes in Myanmar.
 
CNN's Christina Macfarlane reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A massive fire ripped through a refugee camp in Bangladesh as residents flee escaping if lucky with any belongings. Local firefighters and volunteers use what little they have to try and put it out. One mother says she couldn't save anything.
 
KULSUMA KHATUN, ROHINGYA WOMAN (through translator): Chickens, houses and clothes have been burned. I couldn't take anything out of the house. I just took shelter to save my children.
 
MACFARLANE: Another man said he was saved by crossing barbed wire fences. After two hours, the fire is brought under control. Through the smoke, a man wipes his tears. 
 
This is Cox's Bazar, home to around a million Rohingya Muslims, most of whom fled neighboring Myanmar during the brutal military crackdown, which the United Nations has called genocide, a claim which Myanmar denies. It's one of the world's largest refugee camps where people live in
 
 overcrowded and squalid conditions. Now some 12,000 people are left homeless and crucial facilities like health centers and water facilities have been destroyed. Many were already struggling to survive after the U.N. slashed food aid from $12.00 to $10.00 per person this month due to a massive funding gap.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Earlier our rations were not enough, now they have been reduced further.
 
MACFARLANE: To make matters worse, the area is exceptionally vulnerable to climate change.
 
REGINA DE LA PORTILLA, COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER, UNHCR BANGLADESH: They're living in an area that is very prone to natural disasters exacerbated by the climate crisis. So, what we are seeing is a very dry season with way hot weather that can lead to fires.
 
MACFARLANE: It was just two years ago that at least 15 refugees died and more than 10,000 families were displaced in another fire at the camp. 
 
Aid agencies say they're working to provide food and temporary shelter to those who lost their homes. As authorities evaluate the damage and continue to investigate the cause of the fire. The fire yet another blow to community already so devastated.
 
Christina MacFarlane, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:25:01]
 
HARRAK: For more we're now joined by Tom Andrews. He's the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Myanmar. Thank you so sir much for coming on the program. 
 
Thousands of Rohingya now homeless again, for the victims of this fire life was already dire. What is the situation for them right now?
 
TOM ANDREWS, UNITED NATIONS SPECIAL RAPPORTEUR ON MYANMAR: Well, it's just unbelievable. For the 12,000 whom -- many of whom lost everything, they lost their shelters, life is getting even more desperate. 
 
But even before this fire, life was increasingly difficult for them and their families, hunger, violence, just very, very difficult conditions, day in and day out in these -- in these camps. 
 
So, this fire, the loss of for so many 12,000 of even basic shelter has made life even more impossible. 
 
HARRAK: A desperate situation that you depict there. Are aid organizations are able to get resources to victims of this fire, who's looking out for them?
 
ANDREWS: Well, there are many who are trying to get direct assistance to those who are facing the immediate shortfall in basic shelter. 
 
But you know, there are nearly a million people in these camps and they were just informed just last week that they were going to be facing a significant cuts in food rations. 
 
So, those who already were facing a very hard time feeding their families because of the increased price of food, suddenly faced last week a 17 percent cut in food rations, and have now been told that unless member states of the United Nations can fill in this huge gap in this food rationing program, they're going to be facing an even greater cut next month.
 
So, up to a one-third cut in food rations for not just those who have lost their homes but for nearly a million people throughout these camps.
 
HARRAK: I mean, these numbers are staggering, a million, I mean, that's a large Metropolis. Remind us of what drove the Rohingya to Bangladesh.
 
ANDREWS: They were driven by genocide. They were the victims of genocidal attacks in 2016 and 2017 by the Myanmar military, the very leaders who controlled and directed that genocide, then had a coup -- committed a coup two years ago, and are now holding an entire nation of hostage. 
 
There are 600,000 Rohingya remaining in Myanmar right now, mostly in Rakhine State. 130,000 of them are literally in internment camps. And the situation for those in villages are desperate, including basic failure to have any of their fundamental rights, human rights respected, including the right to for movements.
 
Their villages are basically surrounded by military, they can -- they can move nowhere. It's a horrific situation.
 
HARRAK: It is indeed a very horrific situation. Yet, the plight of the Rohingya treated as undesirables in their home country of Myanmar described as the most persecuted people in the world, yet the international community continues to fail them so spectacularly. Why is there no attention for this crisis?
 
ANDREWS: That's a very, very good question, Laila. And I'm so happy that you're putting the light of public attention on this crisis. I think that's one of the biggest obstacles right here, is that they're basically ignored. Their very existence is denied by those in Myanmar for so long. 
 
And right now, many around the world that don't recognize that they exist at all. And as a result of this, basic investments, basic food, nutrition, the things that are keeping children, functioning and alive in these camps is dwindling, because the international community is just cutting back in basic food support. 
 
40 percent of Rohingya children right now in the camps of Bangladesh have stunted growth. 51 percent are in the endemic, 45 percent of all people in these camps have inadequate diets. And that was even before the cuts to the food programs. 
 
So, it's just -- it's an incredible situation. It's unconscionable that the world of member states of the United Nations that -- and you know, they're quick to get up and give speeches in support of the Rohingya or have a proclamations or resolutions in support of the Rohingya, but the Rohingya can't eat political rhetoric or resolutions, they need food and basic sustenance and that is in short, short supply for those desperate Rohingya people, both in Myanmar and now living in these camps in Bangladesh.
 
HARRAK: Tom Andrews, thank you so much for joining us. 
 <br>[00:30:07]
 
ANDREWS: Laila, thank you.
 
HARRAK: Firefighters in Southern India are working to control toxic fumes from a waste plant fire. 
 
It started last week on the outskirts of Kochi. Authorities say it's under control. But methane gas fumes have enveloped the area. 
 
Several firefighters have fainted or needed medical attention. Residents are being advised to stay indoors or wear N-95 masks if they have to go outside. 
 
Still to come, the damages from the deadly earthquake in Turkey are skyrocketing, with costs now estimated in the billions. We'll break down the numbers after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK: You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Laila Harrak. 
 
More than 52,000 people have died as a result of last month's devastating earthquake in Turkey and Syria. Turkey's president says more than 46,000 of those deaths happened in his country, alone. And now others are weighing in on the economic cost. 
 
The World Bank estimates that in Turkey, the quake caused $34 billion in direct physical damage. But, according to the Turkish Enterprise and Business Confederation, the total cost could be more than $84 billion. 
 
Well, the group of businesses says most of that will be spent on housing for those displaced by the disaster. 
 
In the meantime, Turkey's opposition bloc has nominated a candidate to run against President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the coming election. Seventy-five-year-old Kemal Kilicdaroglu is the leader of the Republican People's Party, and if he wins, it would signal the end of Erdogan's 20-year grip on power. CNN's Nada Bashir has more from Istanbul. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, after weeks of deliberation, and even discord within the alliance, Turkey's opposition bloc has nominated Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the leader of Turkey's secular Republican People's Party, as its official candidate to rival incumbent President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the country's upcoming presidential elections. 
 
Now, the decision comes after intense consultation in Ankara on Monday with the six opposition parties, formerly known as the Nation Alliance, with the party seemingly struggling to come to a unanimous agreement until the very last moment. 
 
Now, what President Erdogan's ruling AK Party has in the past capitalized on the apparent disunity of the opposition alliance. 
 <br>[00:35:05]
 
This year's election could prove decisive. And high on the agenda for the opposition is, of course, criticism of the government's response to the devastating earthquake in February, which killed more than 46,000 people in Turkey and left hundreds of thousands homeless. 
 
Members of the opposition have been vocal in their criticism of the government's preparedness and response, while some have highlighted apparent failings in the country's construction standards. 
 
From the, outset, President Erdogan has been clear that his government is aiming to rebuild the affected areas within one year, but experts have also launched criticism against the president's plan. 
 
Turkey's union of engineers and architects warning that such plans are simply too hasty, with further geological investigations needed to ensure that the rebuild operation is actually safe. 
 
But while the earthquake response may be the focal point of this year's electoral debate, there's also the question of Turkey's deepening economic crisis, which has already pushed much of the country into financial ruin. 
 
And while Erdogan may be able to bank himself on presenting as a beacon of stability, growing discontent in the country may provide an opening for the opposition after more than two decades out of power. 
 
Nada Bashir, CNN, Istanbul. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK: The recent arrival of the container shipment in Yemen is raising hopes in the country, where a lasting peace still remains far out of reach. 
 
But right now, any sign of progress is being welcomed in what the U.N. has called the world's worst humanitarian crisis. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) HARRAK (voice-over): A commercial cargo ship docks in Yemen's Hodeidah port, the first time in several years. A vessel carrying more than just humanitarian essentials has been allowed to unload there. 
 
It's a sign that fragile peace, brokered by the U.N. last year between Houthi rebels and the Yemeni government, is still largely holding, though neither side renewed the agreement when it expired in October. 
 
The Yemeni government says the move is meant to build trust, strengthen negotiations between the two sides, who have been fighting a civil war since late 2014. 
 
Hodeidah and much of the Northwest, including the capital, Sanaa, is controlled by the Houthis, who are backed by Iran. 
 
But the government controls most of the rest of the country and is supported by Saudi-led forces, who enforce a naval blockade off Yemen's waters. 
 
Under a U.N. vetting program, to ensure weapons don't enter the port. Only ships containing food, fuel and cooking oil have previously been allowed. 
 
The hope is the additional goods flowing into Yemen will help to ease the humanitarian and economic crisis gripping the country. The U.N. says two-thirds of the population needs help and protection and is appealing for nearly four and a half billion dollars of aid, despite some of the recent gains made. 
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, U.N. SECRETARY-GENERAL: Civilian flights resumed from Sanaa. Vital supplies arrived through the port of Hodeidah.
 
But the economy is in obvious difficulties, basic services risked to collapse, and humanitarian needs continue to soar while excesses constrained and funding but annually falls short. 
 
HARRAK (voice-over): It's a shortfall on so many levels. Food and fuel prices have surged. Inflation is high. 
 
There are dual currency notes and exchange rates, all of which make it harder for Yemenis to buy anything at an affordable price. 
 
These Yemenis cut trees to earn a little money. 
 
ABDULSALAM DABWAN, YEMENI BAKER (through translator): Citizens are forced to cut down trees in order to provide a living for their children. Trees are cut down and sold to bakeries. 
 
HARRAK (voice-over): UNICEF estimates that more than 2 million children have dropped out of school, an increase of nearly half a million since the war began. Some for safety reasons. Others because they're needed to help make ends meet, like this boy, interviewed after school began last year. 
 
MIDIAN ADNAN AOUD, FORMER STUDENT (through translator): I feel sad, because I dropped out of school. My friends go to school, and I don't. I had to drop out to help my parents and support my family. 
 
HARRAK (voice-over): A desperate future for a country at a crossroads. A lasting peace could be the only hope for Yemen civilians, weary of fighting their own battles just to survive. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK (on camera): Still ahead on CNN NEWSROOM, Afghan women literally left out in the cold as universities reopen. We'll have the disturbing details on the higher education ban. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:41:53]
 
HARRAK: France is bracing for another round of major disruptions as workers get ready for their sixth round of nationwide strikes this year. 
 
The Paris Metro is expecting transportation chaos, with most lines only running trains during rush hour. And the Education Union says 60 percent of teachers will walk off the job in Paris. 
 
Strikers are furious over plans to raise the retirement age from 62 to 64 for most workers. Lawmakers are still debating the bill. 
 
And, it's back to school in parts of Afghanistan. But only for men. 
 
On Monday, female students were barred from attending universities as the new academic year began. Some of them protested their exclusion by reading their books on a sidewalk in Kabul. They were literally out in the cold while male students resumed classes indoors. 
 
It follows a decision by the Taliban in late December to ban women from higher education. The move has received heavy international condemnation. 
 
And it's not just Afghanistan. The U.N. secretary-general says around the world, women are losing ground after years of progress. 
 
GUTERRES: Women's rights are being abused, threatened and violated around the world. Progress, won over decades, is vanishing before our eyes. Gender equality is growing more distant. On the current track, world (UNINTELLIGIBLE) puts it 300 years away. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK: Well, Antonio Guterres delivered those remarks to the U.N. Commission on the Status of Women. He said international frameworks must change to work better for women and girls. 
 
I'm Laila Harrak. I'll be back at the top of the hour with more CNN NEWSROOM. But first, WORLD SPORT starts after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:51]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[00:57:37]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)