Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Muslim Leaders say the March is a Provocation and a Threat; Ukraine Claims new Advances Around Bakhmut; Humanitarian Warning for Myanmar; Hundreds Feared Dead in Myanmar from Cyclone Mocha; Right-Wing Jews March in Jerusalem Day Flag Parade; Experts Create Massive Underwater Scan of Ocean Liner. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired May 18, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNNI HOST: Coming up this hour thousands of Israelis marched through Jerusalem's old city to mark Jerusalem Day. That's when Israelis 
 
 celebrate capturing East Jerusalem from Jordan in 1967. The day has also been controversial in the past as much of the international community it 
 
 considers East Jerusalem to be occupied territory under international law.
 
Also ahead, four children have been found alive deep in a Colombian jungle region two weeks after surviving a plane crash. Soldiers supported dog 
 
 units and local communities took part in the massive search.
 
New social media video shows the Ukrainian City of Bakhmut utterly pounded by shelling. Heavy fighting has been taking place in the west of the city. 
 
 And now one Ukrainian unit is claiming a breakthrough.
 
Well, is it a celebration or a provocation? That is the question this day as thousands of flag waving right wing Israelis staged their Annual 
 
 Jerusalem Day Flag March. It marks the anniversary of the day Israel took control of East Jerusalem in 1967. And it's often led to clashes with 
 
 Palestinians in the past.
 
Israeli police are out in force 2500 of them deployed in an effort to keep the peace. Palestinians say the entire event is insulting, and a threat. 
 
 Store owners in the Muslim quarter of the Old City have been told to close their shops and to stay inside.
 
Well, let's turn now to our Hadas Gold she is at the entrance to the Old City of Jerusalem. It looks like quite the turnout there behind you Hadas 
 
 just take us through what you've been seeing and what you've been witnessing?
 
HADAS GOLD, JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well, just in the last few minutes, this has become incredibly dramatic and to be honest, dangerous for the 
 
 press. This is the main entrance for Muslims to enter the Old City of Jerusalem. And this is where the men or women go on a different route on 
 
 coming through for this march.
 
They've been here now for a couple hours coming here with Israeli flags, dancing, chanting singing. We've heard already some provocative chants 
 
 about getting revenge on Palestine, but in the last few minutes the -- tension on the presser, that's what we put on our helmets because rocks, 
 
 bottles have been thrown at the press.
 
I've seen several members of the media workers injured by things being thrown at them. It's hard to tell what to control -- now you can see right 
 
 now that the reaction becomes as someone has been taken away and some way - - where we were standing there were several members of the -- who very clearly -- Palestinian.
 
They wear hijab. And we were young teens, especially coming up to them trying to talk. But slowly it goes up to what we see now, which is things 
 
 being thrown lots of talks, and lots of chants. And that's what really, this march has become over the years.
 
It's supposed to be a celebration for Israelis when Israel took control of East Jerusalem in the -- war. Israeli see this as the reunification of 
 
 Jerusalem wasn't until sorts of control East Jerusalem that Jews could visit the whole site in the Old City.
 
But in recent years, this has become a rally really for the far right for the nationalists who come to this rally most of the mainstream seculars 
 
 really do not attend this rally. And that's why you hear from Palestinians that we've been speaking to in the Old City in East Jerusalem with fear of 
 
 what this type of rally will do to them personally to their safety?
 
And also for them what it represents because you just listen to some of the chants that they have. And its things like embracing their village. Now 
 
 these are these extremists of Israeli society. But they feel emboldened, especially recently because of Ministers, far-right Ministers, like 
 
 National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir and Finance Minister Betzalel Smotrich who are saying that they will attend this march this time.
 
Keep in mind it was this very march of 2021 I was here live when that happened, that rockets were launched to Jerusalem by Hamas militants in 
 
 Gaza setting off that 11 Day War. There is less than expectation that rockets will be fired tonight, we can already see that much of the violence 
 
 is happening on the ground and not necessarily in the skies Lynda.
 
KINKADE: All right, thanks to you Hadas! It is obviously very, very difficult to hear right now, with so many people so much noise there. I do 
 
 want to go to our Ben Wedeman, who's also covering this day joining us from Jerusalem. Thanks for being with us, Ben. So for those not familiar with 
 
 this tradition, just what exactly is Flag Day and why is it so controversial?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPPONDENT: Well, it's actually the Flag March on Jerusalem Day. Jerusalem Day for Israelis marks the day 
 
 56 years ago, when Israeli troops conquered and began the occupation of Eastern Jerusalem.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
It's an event that only in the last few years has become so explosive so potentially dangerous for trouble. Now, what we've seen so far is that 
 
 basically, the Palestinian residents of the Old City perhaps 20,000, people have been cordoned away from this very large crowd a very noisy, very 
 
 provocative young Israelis and also older Israelis, as well, who are really coming here.
 
It's a provocative event, there's no question about it. These are ultra- nationalists that are increasingly representative of the majority in Israel, and they are coming here basically, to show the Palestinians that 
 
 they are in control. Let me read you something from and the main editorial in the Israeli Haaretz Daily.
 
It says the essence of the Flag March is to poke a finger in the eye of the City's Palestinian inhabitants, to humiliate them, and to drive home the 
 
 fact that 40 percent of the residents of Israel's capital live under occupation.
 
And it certainly is ironic that the Israeli police have to deploy thousands of their members to protect this, perhaps control this crowd, although 
 
 frankly, they're not very good at it. We've seen the things that have been thrown at the press at my colleague Hadas Gold.
 
Also, we had a scuffle with the Israeli police who decided that they didn't like where we were standing and got quite violent with us. So this really 
 
 is a day when tensions are about as high as they can get short of actual full blown violence. And Lynda, the day is young.
 
KINKADE: Yes. Yes, it is indeed. I mean, this parade has only been underway a couple of hours. And of course, we do remember just what happened two 
 
 years ago Ben, when the day ended in that 11 day conflict. Has there been any major threat of violence today?
 
WEDEMAN: Well Hamas, some of the members of the Political Bureau of Hamas have sort of suggested that they're not going to let this happen. But 
 
 obviously, those words mean nothing. There haven't been actually specific threats by any of the militant factions in Gaza, to open fire, so to speak 
 
 to fire rockets.
 
But the threat is always there. Of course, on Saturday evening at 10 o'clock, the ceasefire went into effect between Islamic Jihad and Israel, 
 
 but Hamas stayed out of it. But as I said, until now, there has been no indication yet that there is going to be any rocket fire, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Hopefully things stay relatively calm there. Ben Wedeman for us, good to have you on the story thanks very much. Well, I want to go now to a 
 
 remarkable story of survival out of Colombia. The President says four children have been found alive after surviving in the jungle for weeks.
 
The children who are aged 13, 9, 4 plus and a 11-month-old baby were found after their plane crashed 17 days earlier deep in the jungle in the 
 
 southern part of the country. Colombia's Armed Forces have launched a massive search and rescue operation to find the wreckage and the remains of 
 
 three adults were also found.
 
Journalist Stefano Pozzebon is standing by for us in the Colombian Capital. This is beyond remarkable that these four kids the youngest a baby survived 
 
 17 days in the jungle. How are they found?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Yes, we understand Lynda -- as you said is a remarkable beyond the leaf even if you grew up in the jungle in that part 
 
 of the world that is one of the most remote regions, as these four miners were, of course, surviving alone, especially after surviving such a 
 
 terrible experience.
 
There must have been a crush of that small engine, single engine Cessna that fell down on May 1st. Well, they were able to stay alive. We 
 
 understand from a statement from the Colombian Civilian Aviation Authority which is directing their search and rescue operations that the kids were 
 
 able to stay alive by eating what they could find in the jungle, mostly fruit and by sleeping rough and building their own shelters.
 
And that's how they were tracked down by search and rescue operations that the Colombian Civil Authority together with the Colombian Air Force and 
 
 mostly local communities down there in that part of the Amazon rainforest.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
We always think of ourselves as living in a world that is often connected around the world,
 
I mean, Bogota, I'm speaking to you in Atlanta. Well, from here Bogota to down there, it's a completely different world. This is a place where there 
 
 is no phone signal where few people live where the rivers are the highways and the most, the main source way of communications and the way of moving 
 
 around.
 
It's a remote, sparsely populated region. And these four kids, we understand, are a few hours away from being welcomed in the closest 
 
 settlement to the crushing the side of the crushing which is a very remote settlement, a small amulet in the middle, pretty much of nowhere in the 
 
 middle of the rainforest. We'll be looking very, very closely at the moment what will happen Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yes, we will want to bring that live to our viewers when it does happen. Of course, there sadly, three adults did not survive this plane 
 
 crash. What do we know about those adults and their connection to the children and tell us a little bit more about how those children survived?
 
POZZEBON: Yes, we don't really know much at the moment unfortunately. We understand that the mother of the children was traveling with them. We 
 
 understand that the bodies have been located. But they've not been recovered because we understand that from the airline company that operates 
 
 the charter flights in that region that is also assist in the search and rescue operations.
 
They've been telling us that the weather has been particularly problematic over the last couple of weeks. It's in the middle of the rainy season down 
 
 in the Amazon, even though here in Bogota, its nice and sunny down there it's raining a lot. And that means that communications and transportations 
 
 are very, very difficult.
 
And that's also why at this moment the children are not yet in the hands of Colombian Authorities. So we understand from the Colombian Child Welfare 
 
 Agency that their teams are ready to welcome them in -- as the children make their way down from the main river in the region, which is a river 
 
 called the Apaporis.
 
But they are still not with Colombian Authorities. And the reason is that because of the rain because of the high season because the river are so 
 
 high in -- the level of the water in the rivers is so high, it's very hard to move around the region and it's very hard to communicate.
 
I think that's about an hour ago was able to speak again with the owner of the airline company that operates these charter planes. And they operate 
 
 also service of air ambulance in the region because of course how to get away around in the region is by small flight.
 
She told me that sometimes they lose contact with their own aircraft for up to an hour due to electrical storms, and due to the bad weather. So you can 
 
 understand how that is as far away from civilization as South American can get. And that's why we know so little at this point about the ordeal that 
 
 these four kids appear to have survived, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Well, we will bring those images of those children emerging when they come to hand. Stefano Pozzebon thanks very much.
 
POZZEBON: Exactly.
 
KINKADE: And I want to correct something we said earlier, some Palestinian shopkeepers told CNN a day before the event that they would close their 
 
 shops in the Old City for fear of attacks by far eight Jewish nationalists out of a choice that they made. Police say they did not ask any shopkeepers 
 
 to close their shops.
 
Well, still ahead, stunning new images give us a glimpse into the bombardment of Bakhmut.
 
More than that and other developments from Ukraine, also all aboard as Russia confirms the extension of a Grain Deal in the Black Sea. We'll get a 
 
 firsthand look at why the work of cargo ships like this one is so important?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
KINKADE: Well, I want to go to Ukraine now where in the past few hours the army has declared that new gains around the embattled City of Bakhmut. 
 
 Military spokesman says Ukrainian units are advancing despite a shortfall in ammunition and personnel.
 
One brigade says it has carried out offensive actions on the western outskirts of that city. Russia's Wagner mercenary fighters say they are 
 
 also making progress inside the city itself. Elsewhere at least one person was killed in a missile strike in the Southern Port City of Odessa. It came 
 
 amid a large wave of strikes overnight.
 
And in Crimea, a freight train has derailed as a result of what Russian backed authorities are calling an "Intervention of authorized persons". 
 
 Let's get more on that from our Sam Kiley, who's in South Eastern Ukraine. Certainly plenty of developments to talk about Sam, let's start with that 
 
 derailment what else are you learning?
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, this was a rail link between the two main cities in the Crimean Peninsula. This of course, 
 
 was invaded by Russia back in 2014 and later, illegally annexed. It has been the scene of Special Forces operations, psychological operations 
 
 obviously, and perhaps partisan attacks in support of Ukraine.
 
Now this mysterious derailment has been described or tongue in cheek really description from the Ukrainian authorities as a consequence of poor 
 
 maintenance or other such remarks. This is consistent with them being somewhat coy and mocking in terms of when there are strikes by their 
 
 special forces or drones or other mechanisms deep behind Russian lines, or indeed inside Russia itself.
 
They don't admit responsibility, but clearly this was attacked in some way the railway has resulted in derailment and carriages have come off the 
 
 line. This is an important logistics chain part of the logistics chain supporting the Russian war effort further forward on the front lines. So 
 
 could be seen perhaps as part of the ongoing softening up operations by Ukraine ahead of a wider offensive sometime later in the summer.
 
Of course, the ground war continues in Bakhmut in particular, with advances being claimed by both sides. Ukrainians claiming advances on the flanks of 
 
 the city, Wagner Mercenary Group making claims about small advances in their house to house fighting in the city itself.
 
No great strategic change there at all, as the Russians continue their campaign in the air of essentially trying to get the Ukrainians to spend as 
 
 much of their air defenses as they have got ahead of this ground offensive when the Russians will obviously want to try to use their aviation to best 
 
 effect inside Ukrainian territory at the moment.
 
They don't risk their aircraft coming close to the front lines because of the capabilities now that the Ukrainians have in terms of their ability to 
 
 shoot down both missiles and of course, ultimately, aircraft Lynda.
 
KINKADE: And Sam, we saw another barrage of missiles overnight thankfully most intercepted. Russia claims it has hit Ukrainian military 
 
 infrastructure. Is there any truth to that?
 
KILEY: Probably, or possibly at the fact of the matter is that the reporting restrictions here mean that we're not able to report when there 
 
 have been strikes by Russia on military installations because that gives intelligence valuable intelligence back to the Russians in terms of their 
 
 targeting.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
There is some time so some delay allowed between the attack and when we can report it. But at other occasions, the Ukrainians simply do not admit to 
 
 any strikes against their military targets being conducted outside of the front line areas by Russia.
 
But clearly they do occasionally get through. We've seen that with some very spectacular explosions, clearly, important logistic nodes or even 
 
 ammunition dumps over the last year of the war. And the Russians have made this claim they've got no supporting evidence for it. We know that the 
 
 Ukrainians are saying that only one missile out of 30 got through to his target.
 
And there was some debris that killed one person in the southern port city of Odessa that may well be the so called success that the Russians are 
 
 claiming there, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Interesting perspective, Sam Kiley for us. Good to have you there on the ground for us. Thank you so much. Well live away prices fell earlier 
 
 after Ukraine and Russia agreed to extend a deal that allows grain to be exported from Ukrainian ports in the black sea. The agreement is critical 
 
 to the world's food supply, and it was broken by Turkey and the United Nations last year.
 
Moscow says the extension will last at least two months, saying that period is decisive when it comes to the deals future. The U.S. says that while it 
 
 supports the agreement, Moscow should in no way be using hunger as a weapon.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VEDANT PATEL, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT DEPUTY SPOKESPERSON: We strongly support the U.N.'s and Turkey's efforts on the deal which keeps global food 
 
 and grain prices low. But as Secretary Blinken has previously said, we should not need to remind Moscow every few weeks to keep their promises and 
 
 to stop using people's hunger as a weapon in their war against Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, Becky Anderson, who is of course a regular host of "Connect the World", visited ship carrying Ukrainian weight for export. She has more 
 
 now and why the grain deal matters so much.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN ANCHOR, CONNECT THE WORLD (voice over): And on assuming looking port in Istanbul, with global significance. It's from here that 
 
 inspection teams from Russia, Ukraine, the U.N. and Turkey deployed to vessels anchored offshore.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): The ship that will be boring is anchored in the moderate sea, it left -- port in Ukraine on May the 12 carrying about 
 
 26,000 tons of wheat. And it is one of the last vessels to transit under the current terms of the Black Sea grain deal. While this vessel is 
 
 actually quite low, so we're quite lucky because I might have had to actually climb up the side of this boat. But as things stand, it's an easy 
 
 it's easy access on.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): These inspectors are looking for any unauthorized cargo or crew.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Captain we're going to conduct the inspection and we're going to start with the documentation like this.
 
MOHAMAD BALKIS, CAPTAIN, PACIFIC ROSE: -- no
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Perfect.
 
ANDERSON: Mohamad is the captain of the Pacific rose.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): So, these are the passports by the core?
 
BALKIS: And the crew is really --
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Also on the checklist, the shipment itself, in this case over 26,000 tons of wheat. To get here Mohamad and his crew had to 
 
 navigate through what is very much alive conflict zone.
 
BALKIS: What is it safe eye contact with control, -- control and -- control by in this area.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Got it.
 
BALKIS: Everything is safe, a contact for -- I think all is to -- to Istanbul. When you take to Istanbul -- everything is OK.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Since the beginning of this deal, some 1800 ships have done this route and been inspected. That's some 30 million tons of 
 
 foodstuffs feeding more than 150 million people and perhaps as importantly, bringing the price of food globally down by some 20 percent.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): The work of these inspectors now goes on, after Turkey's president announced an extension of the deal, meaning for at least 
 
 another two months, the world can breathe a sigh of relief. Becky Anderson, -- CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well still ahead a dire warning from the U.N. after a powerful storm leaves a trail of death and destruction in Western Myanmar. We'll 
 
 talk to the person coordinating the World Food Programs Response. And rescue teams search for people stranded in Northern Italy after deadly 
 
 floodwaters rage throughout the region.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back to "Connect the World". I'm Lynda Kinkade, good to have you with us. Well, the United Nation says Myanmar's Military junta is 
 
 holding up some vital aid to some storm hit communities in western Rakhine State after that cyclone devastated the lives and livelihoods of millions 
 
 of people in the poorest parts of the country.
 
Rescue groups are warning of what they call a large scale loss of life. Hundreds are feared dead after the powerful storm barreling into Myanmar's 
 
 coast on Sunday. CNN has been speaking to people who saw their homes and loved ones swept away in Sunday storm. Our Paula Hancocks reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): It was one of the strongest cyclones to ever hit Myanmar, and it hits the most vulnerable and 
 
 desperate. Temporary shelters in this Rohingya refugee camp were destroyed. More than 400 people have died, and entire villages have been wiped out 
 
 according to eyewitnesses.
 
Those who survived tried to salvage anything left of their homes. And later rest those who were lost. Aung Zaw Hein already lost his home once fleeing 
 
 religious persecution by Myanmar's military 10 years ago, leaving everything behind. He's now homeless again.
 
AUNG ZAW HEIN, ROHINGYA REFUGEE: Let me just show you the situation over here. My home is completely destroyed. So other people have already cleared 
 
 my area.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): He has been helping search and rescue missions, looking for the bodies of his neighbors and helping to bury the dead.
 
HEIN: My heart is very, very broken. I don't know how to mention in words. But when I see the dead bodies, I can't control my tears.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Myanmar's military has been accused of killing thousands of Muslim Rohingya in a bloody and brutal crackdown. It's been 
 
 described by the United Nations as a genocide. About a million Rohingya fled to neighboring Bangladesh starting in 2017. But hundreds of thousand 
 
 still live here in Myanmar, many displaced and in dire need of humanitarian aid. Abdul Hussain says he saw his wife and three daughters swept away by 
 
 the water as they tried to flee to safety.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There are a lot of families like us, we need shelter, we have no food, we don't know what to do tonight. What we eat for lunch and 
 
 what we will do tomorrow, we've just lost everything.
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Hussein shows us where he slept with his surviving children and grandchildren last night.
 
HANCOCKS (on camera): Do you think there will be any help coming from the military?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I don't believe they will come to help us. I will just have to struggle to feed the six members of my family that are left.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Myanmar's junta leader Min Aung Hlaing visited this same hearted area sit way on Monday. He promised aid from the military. But 
 
 the U.N. and many international aid organizations say they have been heavily restricted from entering the country and the hunter rule since they 
 
 seized power two years ago, leaving the residents of Rakhine many living in camps to fend for themselves.
 
HEIN: This storm has completely destroyed our life and brings us on the road again.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Already vulnerable communities hoping for help that may never come. Paula Hancocks, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Stephen Anderson is the Country Director of the World Food Program in Myanmar. He joins us now live via Skype from the capital, Nay Pyi Taw. 
 
 Thanks so much for your time. Just given the extent of the damage, how challenging is it to assess the situation and talk to us about your 
 
 coordination of efforts on the ground there?
 
STEPHEN ANDERSON, COUNTRY DIRECTOR, WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME MYANMAR: Thank you, the situation is extremely dire. The U.N. estimates that over 5 
 
 million people have been affected and about 3.2 million of them are extremely vulnerable due to the cyclone, which are the worst and at least 
 
 10 years in the region.
 
And, and, and the World Food Program we are focusing on the 800,000 people who have been in the direct path of this cyclone that are have been 
 
 rendered homeless and they're struggling to make ends meet their food, they just don't have enough they don't have food.
 
So we're very much focused in trying to get, we've actually started distributions in two state in Rakhine and Maguey, another state. And we are 
 
 in the process of trying to gear up to assist particularly first and foremost in the eight hardest hit townships of central Rakhine, who 
 
 desperately need food. They of course also need desperately water, shelter, health, health services, the needs are immense.
 
KINKADE: Talk to us about the other challenges because we have heard from U.N. agencies on the ground reporting issues with the military travel 
 
 restrictions holding up aid from stopping at really preventing it from getting to those who need it. Has the World Food Program being given access 
 
 to some of those people who are in the most desperate situation?
 
ANDERSON: The World Food Program has already started distributions to families in cyclone shelters in -- and in Maguey. And we are in the process 
 
 we have received permissions to actually commence transport and distributions and assessments in other in the eight hardest hit areas of 
 
 central Rakhine, we're still in the early days of the response.
 
It's a very complex situation with many moving parts as it would be in any in many parts of the world when there's a major natural disaster of this 
 
 magnitude. Unfortunately, it comes on top of a more complex situation that's playing out in Myanmar in terms of conflict.
 
And so the ability to, it's not just a matter of racing against time in terms of getting to these people, but it's the situation is extremely 
 
 complex with different parties on the ground. So we have to you know, it's an infrastructure that's been washed out but it's also to deal with a 
 
 number of different groups. But we are doing our best to try to access everyone in need, wherever they are.
 
KINKADE: Yes, certainly difficult situation to navigate on so many levels. And Stephen, you mentioned the 5 million people in Rakhine in the Northeast 
 
 in the path of the cyclone, what are the key points of focus? What are the priorities right now in the coming days?
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, the priority in the coming days is to try to get -- first of all we're bringing in. We have some assistance already in the region. We 
 
 have actually a strong presence already in Rakhine region. So, and we actually have food, although some of our warehouses have been damaged, but 
 
 we do have food already on the scene.
 
And we're actually we've -- we are bringing 2000 tons of rice and 400 tons of high energy biscuits, that's also on the way from Yangon. So we're -- 
 
 and we've actually dispatched additional staffs to the area because also our staff -- all their houses have been destroyed. They're also trying to 
 
 pick up the pieces.
 
We're doing everything we can, working around the clock to try to get food out to the most affected people. But it's not easy. And anyone who has not 
 
 received of course they are in an extremely difficult situation.
 
The local authorities have also; of course, they're deploying whatever assets they can. And certainly all aide groups are doing their best to try 
 
 to gain access. As I mentioned earlier, there are also critical needs in terms of water, shelter, health services, among others.
 
KINKADE: Yes, and just looking at these images, Stephen of this widespread devastation feels kind of overwhelming in terms of where to start. But this 
 
 is obviously just the immediate response you're focusing on right now. Does the World Food Program have the resources and the assistance it needs to 
 
 help these people in the coming weeks and months ahead?
 
ANDERSON: Well, thankfully, we have some resources on the ground that we're immediately drawing upon. However, this is part of a much more complex 
 
 emergency situation; it's playing out in parts of the country due to conflict and also economic dislocation.
 
And so, we critically need about $60 million to which it would also include the immediate requirements for the 800,000 people under this cyclone, 
 
 cyclone affected populations. So really, we are urgently appealing for about $60 million to try to meet the most critical food assistance needs of 
 
 these populations there. But also in other parts of the country, which are conflict affected, and populations are really facing critical needs.
 
KINKADE: Well, we hope you get the support you need and we will make sure we put your details on our website on cnn.com/impact-your-world and get you 
 
 the help that you need. Thanks so much for your efforts, Stephen, appreciate it.
 
ANDERSON: Thank you.
 
KINKADE: Well, at least 11 deaths and up to 20,000 people displaced and billions of dollars in agricultural losses are a result of the flooding in 
 
 Northern Italy. More than 500 firefighters are now involved in a large scale search and rescue operation. And local officials there say several 
 
 people are missing. Barbie Nadeau reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Thousands of evacuations continue in Northern Italy after deadly floods and landslides wiped out key 
 
 infrastructure. Several people died and rescuers continue to search for the missing.
 
A pregnant woman was lifted to safety by the Coast Guard called in to help with water evacuations. An elderly couple evacuated from their home 
 
 overnight. Bridges washed away have hampered rescue operations. Roads have become impassable.
 
FAUSTO CASANOVA, SUPERVISOR, PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY: We closed the road to -- after the flooding of the River Koderma. A torrent flooded on the VA Amelia 
 
 in the castle welfare area. The Mota Bridge (ph) collapsed near Amelia. The situation is very complicated. The only road available to reach -- and 
 
 Ravenna is the VA Amelia. The highway is closed due to flooding.
 
NADEAU (voice over): The floods have even sparked fires.
 
KELI SHARK, FAENZA RESIDENT: I was expecting the river to rise after the red alert warning came through. But instead of breaking through in two or 
 
 three places, it burst its banks and the water came with no warning. What can we do? We're waiting for the help of civil protection teams. They're 
 
 not here at the moment. And so we're helping in order to save our houses. What can we do other than that? We'll wait until someone helps.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
NADEAU (voice over): Residents who can't stay with friends and family are being housed in local cinemas and museums. Weather conditions are expected 
 
 to improve slightly before another system moves in. Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN, Rome.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well still to come, new details are emerging about the car chase involving the Duke and Duchess of Sussex. Their taxi driver is now speaking 
 
 out about that night in question.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Well, back now to our top story. There's escalating tensions in Jerusalem as right wing Israelis marched through the city. The March 
 
 celebrating Israel taking control of East Jerusalem in the 1967 war is seen as dangerous and a dangerous provocation by the Palestinians.
 
Just a short time ago, the rowdy crowd of Israelis turned on journalists nearby pelting them with rocks and bottles. Hadas Gold is at the Damascus 
 
 Gate entrance to the Old City of Jerusalem and joins us now on the phone. Hadas, just give us a sense of what you're seeing and what you're 
 
 experiencing there right now?
 
GOLD: Yes, well, things are calmer now than they were about half an hour ago. That's when things started with these marchers who are in the men, the 
 
 women are on a different route are making their way through Damascus Gate, which is the main entrance usually for Muslims for Palestinians to enter 
 
 the Old City.
 
But this is one of the routes that these marches for this march of flags are going and they go through the state through the Muslim Quarter and the 
 
 end at the Western Wall Plaza. But the types of people, who attend this mark, especially in recent years, have become more and more right wing and 
 
 nationalist.
 
And while we've been here, we've heard those chanting things about Palestinians -- revenge on Palestine. So we've heard them taunting 
 
 reporters, especially reporters who are wearing hijabs are very obviously Palestinian saying, may your village burn. They were starting to come up 
 
 right to be a cordoned off press area that police had set up for us.
 
And then they started talking, commencing, started getting violent, wash bottles, cans were being thrown at the reporters. Reporters had to very 
 
 quickly take cover, put on personal protection here. I myself witness reporters getting hit having to get emergency treatment first aid treatment 
 
 by emergency medical workers that were there.
 
I got to the point that we even had to fall back a bit because it seemed as though the marchers were reaching the cordoned off area and maybe 
 
 approaching the reporters. And you could really feel the vitriol from these marchers.
 
Now, things have since calmed down and the marches going back to what it usually is, which is thousands of Israelis, like I said, mostly right 
 
 wingers waving Israeli flag dancing and marching through the streets. Now these people are most, some of them are from the extreme extremists. They 
 
 are waving flags from extremist organizations that are from the absolute fringe.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
But they have felt especially emboldened in recent months with this new Israeli Government from its far right and Israeli history. And far right 
 
 ministers like Itamar Ben Gvir, National Security Minister, as well as Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich are taking part in this March. They are 
 
 not part of this government.
 
These are people who weren't considered fringe of Israeli politics. They are now in power. And I think that's why you're seeing this, this turnout 
 
 that we've seen here now. Now, in previous years, this march was a pretext for violence not only on the ground scuffles between the marchers and 
 
 Palestinians, locals between police and Palestinians.
 
But also it has been the pretext for war. And 2021 it was during this exact march right around this hour, that rockets were launched by Hamas militants 
 
 from Gaza, towards Israel, right as people were making their way through to the Old City setting off that 11 day war.
 
Now, while militants in Gaza have made threats about this market, but if it crosses red lines that they will respond once again. There is little 
 
 expectation amongst the security establishment here that lockets will somehow be fired once again, especially since we're only to that -- 
 
 ceasefire with Islamic Jihad and government after the last round.
 
But that doesn't mean that things on the ground here and in the Old City are not incredibly tense. And as we've already seen, they've already 
 
 descended into violence and while the night is still young.
 
KINKADE: All right, Hadas Gold, take care there, for us in Jerusalem. Thanks so much for that update. We are going to take a quick break; we'll 
 
 be right back with much more news. Stay with us, you're watching "Connect the World".
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Well, scientists from across the globe are turning to the oceans to develop carbon capture technology that removes dangerous co2 from the 
 
 atmosphere. In our new serious bold pursuits, Christina MacFarlane meets the scientists with big ambitions to change the world.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): With its unique buildings, a mixture of Arabic design and modern technologies, Masdar City 
 
 on the outskirts of Abu Dhabi in the UAE claims to be among the most sustainable in the world. It's at the forefront the globe zero carbon 
 
 revolution.
 
STEPHEN SEVERANCE, DIRECTOR OF GROWTH, MASDAR CITY: We see the world making a statement saying, we're going to be carbon neutral by 2050. We've got a 
 
 lot of work to do; we've got a lot of work to do in every area to get there. That's one of the most ambitious targets that the globe has ever set 
 
 together.
 
MACFARLANE (voice over): It's -- that could hold the key to achieving that carbon neutral target. And the scientists at the University of California 
 
 Los Angeles have been investigating its potential.
 
DANTE SIMONETTI, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, INSITUTUTE FOR CARBON MANAGEMENT, UCLA: So the ocean stores approximately 150 times more carbon dioxide in 
 
 the atmosphere. So our process removes carbon dioxide from the atmosphere by leveraging the power of the ocean to naturally absorb carbon dioxide 
 
 from air.
 
MACFARLANE (voice over): In scientific experiments they pulled seawater through a mesh of beakers and test tubes. The aim was to separate co2 from 
 
 the seawater.
 
SIMONETTI: This is our product here. This is the solid liquid solution; this is the captured carbon dioxide.
 
MACFARLANE (voice over): It's called carbon capture technology. Sea water from the ocean is subjected to an electrical charge through chemical 
 
 reactions; the co2 and water are separated. The co2 now trapped in a solid form, are pumped back into the ocean and stored on the sea floor.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
The water which no longer has co2 is sent back into the ocean to where it is once again ready to absorb even more co2 from the atmosphere.
 
SIMONETTI: This definitely be its own industry going forward. Carbon dioxide removal will be the new heavy industry that mankind has to develop 
 
 in order to remediate the consequences of the first industrial revolution, which led to the release of a large amounts of carbon dioxide over short 
 
 periods of time.
 
MACFARLANE (voice over): In the Port of Los Angeles, what began as a simple lab experiment has evolved into a proof of concept project on this 100 foot 
 
 barge?
 
SIMONETTI: We envision the next step to be a process that's about 100 times the size of this to be free standing on shore. And then the next step would 
 
 be the process that's 100 times larger than that.
 
MACFARLANE (voice over): Dante says they plan to deploy this technology commercially within five years, and if successful, it could go a long way 
 
 to achieving the global target of being carbon neutral by 2050.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: We are hearing new details now and Harry and Megan paparazzi Chase. We know that Duke and Duchess of Sussex were pursued by 
 
 photographers Tuesday night after an awards event in New York City. The couple's teams say a chase ensued that was near catastrophic.
 
There's no comment coming from any of the royal palaces in the UK. But a taxi driver who picked up Harry and Megan on that night is sharing his 
 
 account with CNN. We hear now from Max Foster.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SUNNY SINGH, TAXI DRIVER: That I feel like I was in danger. But you know, Harry and Megan they look very nervous.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): More than 25 years after the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, her son Prince Harry and his wife Meghan 
 
 claimed they were chased by paparazzi, and what the couple's team is calling a near catastrophic car chase. Prince Harry, Megan and her mother 
 
 Doria Ragland attended the women of vision awards at the Ziegfeld Ballroom in New York City. Megan was honored for her global advocacy to empower 
 
 women and girls.
 
But it wasn't until they left the event that things allegedly escalated. A local law enforcement source tell CNN, "Swarmer paparazzi followed them in 
 
 cars, motorcycles and scooters, the convoy eventually went to the 19th precinct where the couple waited until they could safely leave".
 
Chris Sanchez, a member of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex a security detail says they switched cars more than once during the chase. They were first 
 
 seen in a black car, and then a yellow cab. The driver of that cab says he noticed the paparazzi before as the couple of security guards started to 
 
 tell him the address to drive to.
 
SINGH: And as soon as he's about to say where they're going all of a sudden, paparazzi just stormed the taxi.
 
FOSTER (voice over): He says he saw six paparazzi is total.
 
SINGH: When the paparazzi started taking pictures that once I heard from the back, somebody said, oh my God, you know and then the look on their 
 
 faces, you can tell that they were nervous and scared.
 
FOSTER (voice over): That's when the Sussex's bodyguard told him to return to the police precinct. The NYPD who provided assistance to the Sussex's 
 
 security team says the paparazzi made the transport of Harry and Megan challenging, but there were no reports of collisions, injuries or arrests.
 
The couple security teams say the Duke and Duchess and their convoy were pursued by the paparazzi for more than two hours, allegedly resulting in 
 
 multiple near collisions with other drivers, pedestrians and two NYPD officers. Adding the Sussex's who were staying at a private residence on 
 
 the upper east side of Manhattan did not want to compromise the security of their friend's home.
 
New York City Mayor Eric Adams has questioned the validity of that two hour timeframe, but says nothing like this should ever happen in a city as dense 
 
 as the Big Apple calling the incidents reckless and irresponsible.
 
ERIC ADAMS, NEW YORK MAYOR: You shouldn't be speeding anywhere. But this is a densely populated city. And I think all of us; I don't think there's many 
 
 of us who don't recall how his mom died.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Thanks to Max Foster there. Well, a massive digital scan of the Titanic's wreckage is revealing details that have never been seen before. 
 
 More than a century after it sank, researchers created an exact digital twin of the Titanic according to the deep sea investigators, Magellan and 
 
 the filmmakers, the Atlantic productions.
 
It's said to be the largest underwater scanning project in history. 10 times larger than any underwater 3d model ever attempted with more than 16 
 
 terabytes of data. Before we go, the world of reality dating shows is about to get a bit bigger. U.S. dating show the bachelor usually looks a lot like 
 
 this.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's an unforgettable adventure filled with love.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Now the crews are out to prove that love is timeless with the new edition of the show, The Golden Bachelor. It's set to debut later this 
 
 year. The new show will focus on men and women in their golden years looking for love. It's the latest spin off of the Bachelor, one of the most 
 
 popular shows in primetime. Thanks so much for joining us, I'm Lynda Kinkade. That was "Connect the World" stay with us. "One World" joins us in 
 
 just a short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00] 
 
END