Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: : Trump Pleads Not Guilty To 2020 Election Charges After Indictment And Arrest; Protesters Voice Support For Coup In Independence Day; Russia Says Thwarted Ukraine Attacks On Black Sea Naval Base, Crimea. WFP Warns It May Have to Suspend Aid to Palestinians; Trump Pleads Not Guilty in 2020 Election Plot; U.S. Navy Sailors Accused of Sharing Secrets with China; Typhoon Khanun Could Dump More Rain on Japan; Bank of England Raises Interest Rates for 14th Time; Lisbon Gives Pope Francis a Rock Star Welcome; Dramatic Finish to Group Stage at Women's World Cup; Man Running Across Europe to Buy Ambulances for Ukraine. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired August 04, 2023 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:20]
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. I'm Michael Holmes. Appreciate your company. Coming up here on CNN NEWSROOM. Former U.S. President Donald Trump calls the third indictment against him political persecution as he pleads not guilty to charges that he tried to overturn the 2020 election.
 
Supporters of the military coup in Niger take to the streets in defiance of a weekend deadline to return the country's democratically elected president to power.
 
Also.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TOM BRADY,PROFESSIORNAL FOOTBALL PLAYER: So here's the deal. I'm officially coming on board at Birmingham City Football Club.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Brady hoping his American football expertise will help him manage that other kind of football as he buys into a British soccer team.
 
Donald Trump isn't letting his latest indictment stand in the way of his bid to win reelection. The former U.S. president back at his New Jersey Golf Resort after pleading not guilty to four-felony counts in his alleged plot to reverse his 2020 election loss. 
 
Trump plans to campaign in Alabama in the day ahead and South Carolina on Saturday. His next hearing is set for August 28 when the judge is expected to set a trial date. Prosecutors want things to move quickly but Trump's legal team is
 
 looking to delay the trial until after the 2024 election. Trump was released without any real conditions except for being told not to communicate directly with anyone known to be a witness in the case. 
 
Sources said he left the courthouse in a sour and dejected mood, among other things upset that the judge addressed him as Mr. Trump instead of Mr. President. He spoke briefly with reporters at the airport.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: This is a persecution of a political opponent. This was never supposed to happen in America. This is the persecution of the person that's leading by very, very substantial numbers in the Republican primary and leading Biden by a lot. So if you can't beat him, you persecute him or you prosecute him. We can't let this happen in America.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: The former president wasn't done criticizing the Biden administration after he left Washington, CNN national correspondent Kristen Holmes with that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Former President Donald Trump lashing out again after landing at his New Jersey home after that arrayed men posting on his truth, social that this was him being arrested by a political opponent who was losing to him in the polls, and then calling it a very good day. 
 
Obviously, this is the way that Trump interacts is exactly the same thing he said outside of that plane. But it is interesting to note that of the political advisors that I speak to they tell me that on days like today, Trump is very angry that he's very frustrated, that it's not something that he wants to be doing is getting indicted being ran. He wants to be running for president again in 2024. 
 
But as we have noted, and as we've reported over and over again, we're at a point where the legal and the political are one in the same, his arguments for the political are that he has to win, because he's being persecuted in the in the court of law. 
 
So it is interesting to see but obviously as we know now he is lashing out. We will see what he says on Friday when he attends a dinner in Alabama where he's speaking to the Republican Party there. Kristen Holmes, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Joining me now from New York, Tim Naftali, CNN presidential historian and former director of The Nixon Presidential Library. Always good to have you on, sir. These are extraordinary times. Just put into historical perspective, the incredible events that are unfolding around Donald Trump. TIMOTHY NAFTALI, CNN PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN: Well, this week for the first time in U.S. history. And a president, a former president was indicted for acts that he committed while he was president. In 1974, the United States came very close to a similar experience when Richard Nixon left office and would likely have been indicted but for the pardon from President Ford. 
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
So, we came close to this in the modern era but it is finally happened, the former president has been indicted for actions done while he was president.
 
HOLMES: And to that point, I mean, how utterly extraordinary is that a presidential candidate now goes into an election facing this much legal jeopardy, any legal Jeopardy. But this match. I mean, three separate indictments, another one likely to come in Georgia. How extraordinary is it?
 
NAFTALI: Well, now that's the other thing that's extraordinary. We not only have a former leader of this country, who left in disgrace under criminal indictment, but he has so much sway over his own political party, that he is the putative favorite, to be re-nominated. 
 
And thus, this man, with all of this criminal, that all of this called, this judicial baggage on him, is a likely candidate for president of United States in 2024. That is also incredibly unprecedented. Look, there are only in the modern era, only two individuals who had been on the ballot for the presidency of the United States three times. Franklin Roosevelt, of course, he was on the ballot four times. Richard Nixon was on the ballot three times. And it looks likely that Donald Trump will be on the ballot three times.
 
And for that, for so it's rare anyway, for any individual be on the ballot three times. But for an individual to be indicted in at least three different courts while up for election for the third time, would be extraordinary and Americans would like.
 
HOLMES: Yes. And I guess you know, when you think about a year, the historian, the founding fathers tried to cover a lot of bases, but I think it's fair to say they never envisioned this. Could he be president and at the same time face trials or jail?
 
NAFTALI: Oh, that's well, yes, there is nothing in the U.S. Constitution that disqualifies him as a candidate that reflects being part of a criminal proceeding. Indeed, he could be found guilty and still be eligible to present himself as the standard bearer of the Republican Party. And by the way, once you're eligible to be elected, if you're elected, you get to take office
 
Now, this is where it could get interesting. I've been -- I actually think more than interesting. I think this could be tragic for the United States. But we could face a situation where a reelected Donald J. Trump has been found guilty in one of these or more perhaps of these cases, and he could either pardon himself. And by the way, the legal standing of self-pardoning is unclear, although many people argue it's not possible. 
 
Or he could argue that these criminal proceedings should be put to one side until he finishes his term, because there is some doctrine of letting the President do his or her business, without any encumbrances.
 
HOLMES: Just before we go, I wanted to touch on this too, because you did, you know, that despite the indictments, despite the detailed evidence laid out, Trump way ahead in Republican polling, well within range of Joe Biden in the broader electorate polling. What does that say about American politics today?
 
NAFTALI: Well, what it says is the power of the demagogue in democratic societies, especially this one, I mean, and Donald Trump is a very effective demagogue. And he has made millions of Americans believe that he is a victim, and that they are victims like him of some central elite conspiracy. 
 
And the argument that his lawyers will likely make in the January 6, trial is that Donald Trump fully believes that he'd been reelected. And the argument will be, you don't criminalize that belief. Many Americans felt he had been reelected to and many of his supporters will think, Oh, yes, I was convinced he'd been reelected. So why should I go to jail too?
 
HOLMES: We are definitely in an uncharted territory. There's a lot of ignorance willful or otherwise out there. Tim Naftali, thank you so much. Always good to have you thought.
 
NAFTALI: My pleasure, Michael. Thank you for having me on tonight.
 
HOLMES: Well, the White House is eager to keep its distance from Trump's legal woes. CNN caught up with President Joe Biden on a more ride in Rehoboth Beach in Delaware.
 <br>[01:10:03]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mr. President, will you be following the arraignment today, sir? 
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: No.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Pretty simple answer there. The White House, too, denying the comment on the arraignment referring questions to the Justice Department. 
 
The U.S. military is working with forces in Niger not tied to last week's coup to keep American bases in the country up and running. The Pentagon says quote, "There are no changes to the U.S. military force posture in Niger during the Department of State led ordered departure. The Department of State has not requested DoD personnel or equipment as part of the audit departure. We continue to monitor this fluid and evolving situation and reiterate our focus on a diplomatic solution."
 
The U.S. State Department on Wednesday ordered the evacuation of non- emergency personnel and their family members in the wake of the military takeover. France, Germany and Spain have also been evacuating their citizens. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden called for the immediate release of Niger's President Bazoum on Thursday, marking the first time he's commented on the coup since the Nigerien military seized power last week. President Biden said quote, the Nigerien people have the right to choose their leaders. They have expressed their will through free and fair elections, and that must be respected. 
 
Meanwhile, thousands came out to show their support for the new military junta on Niger's Independence Day on Thursday.
 
Many in the capital Niamey shouted anti French slogans while chanting the name of the general who sees power. They also demonstrated against the growing pressure from other West African countries to return to democracy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We have called this demonstration so that the population can support the Armed Forces of Niger, who have swept away a regime that has bled this country and sold it to the French. A country whose leaders and become puppets and have joined forces with ECOWAS to attack our country. We are ready. They'll have to step on our corpses first before they can reach the Nigerien army.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: CNN's David McKenzie is following all of the developments from Johannesburg.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): With the crowds came out in force for a protest in support of the coup in Niger. In the capital, Niamey, it was also the Independence Day of Niger from France. It is unclear, though and it must be said we don't know how widespread the support is across the country for those coup leaders that took power last week. 
 
We do know from a former advisor of the president Bazoum that he -- according to that individual is feeling in high spirits that he is confident, he is currently under house arrest, according to that former adviser and with his wife and son. 
 
He has been able to speak to world leaders repeatedly over the last few days, including the U.S. Secretary of State. Diplomats do you feel that there could still be a window to negotiate an end to this coup. ECOWAS in particular, the regional bloc is aggressively pushing against the coup leader and saying that this needs to return to a democratic dispensation in Niger. They've even threatened troops to be sent and Senegal, a critical
 
 country and ECOWAS says they are willing to send troops and that they've had enough power.
 
AISSATA TALI SALL, SENEGALESE FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): Why didn't we do it for Mali? Why didn't we do it for Guinea? Why didn't we do it for Burkina? And why are we doing it for Niger? To give one answer, I say it's one coup to many. 
 
MCKENZIE: She was of course referring to countries that have had coups part of ECOWAS in recent years. The coup leaders for their part are digging in at least one leader went to neighboring Mali, where the military is in power opening the door possibly for Russian involvement should they consolidate their power in Niger. I think the next few days will be critical here as the pressure builds both in terms of sanctions and trade from ECOWAS, and potentially, the coup leaders digging in to consolidate power. David McKenzie, CNN, Johannesburg.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Elsewhere, the ongoing conflict in Sudan has worsened its humanitarian crisis which was already dreadful. A new report found more than 20 million people are facing acute food insecurity in Sudan due to the fighting. The report from multiple governments, U.N. agencies, NGOs and civil society says that compared to their last analysis in May of 2022, the number of highly food insecure people has nearly doubled to 42 percent of the population.
 <br>[01:15:04]
 
The UN's migration office set on Thursday nearly 4 million people have been displaced since fighting between the Sudanese military and the rival rapid support forces broke out in mid April.
 
We are getting word from Russia claiming that it foiled a Ukrainian drone strike on Crimea. Moscow says it intercepted 13 Ukrainian aerial drones on Friday morning, without any damage or casualties in the region. 
 
The military also claims it intercepted a separate see drone attack on its naval base in southwestern Russia. 
 
Meanwhile, Ukraine is tamping down expectations around its counter offensive, which has slowed down to a crawl because of complex Russian defensive lines. A top Ukrainian official says Russians have laid quote, an insane number of landmines up to five per square meter in some cases. 
 
He also says Ukrainians are now clearing those mines on foot, which you can see in this video taken by Ukrainian forces. The official adds that Ukrainians are not facing any deadlines to break through such heavily fortified areas. 
 
Meanwhile, Kyiv says Russia is bringing more battle ready forces to Bakhmut to prevent further Ukrainian advances. Russians are also trying to push back along parts of the front line but according to President Zelenskyy they're not getting anywhere.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Frontline the battles are tough. The occupiers are trying with all their might to stop our guys. The assaults are very fierce. But no matter what the enemy does, it is the Ukrainian forces that dominate.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: The U.S. turning up the diplomatic pressure on Russia over its attacks on Ukraine's grain infrastructure. Russian missiles have been pounding Ukrainian ports used for food shipments since Moscow pulled out of the Black Sea grain deal. 
 
But now the U.S. is pushing a joint communique at the United Nations condemning the use of food as a weapon of war. The U.S. says 91 countries have already signed it. Secretary of State Antony Blinken telling the Security Council on Thursday, U.N. members must send a message to Moscow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Every member of this council, every member of the United Nations should tell Moscow enough, enough using the Black Sea as blackmail. Enough treating the world's most vulnerable people as leverage enough of this unjustified unconscionable war.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Blinken spoke after the U.S. took over the rotating Security Council presidency for this month. 
 
Meanwhile, Ukrainians in the occupied territories are facing an increasing pressure campaign to become Russian citizens. That's according to a new report by researchers at Yale University. It says pressure tactics include threats of detention or deportation for people who say no. They could also be denied medical care, child benefits, and even access to the power grid. 
 
Researchers say one of Russia's goals is to erase the Ukrainian national identity and the idea of Ukraine as a sovereign state. 
 
Joining me now from New Haven, Connecticut, and Nathaniel Raymond is Executive Director of Humanitarian Research Lab at the Yale School of Public Health. It's good to see you sir. Thanks so much. Yale describes what's happening as a, quote, systemic push to make it impossible for residents to survive in their homes, you know, unless they accept Russian passports. How is this false citizenship playing out?
 
NATHANIEL RAYMOND, EXEC. DIRECTOR, YALE HUMANITARIAN RESEARCH LAB: Well, it's playing out in real time, Michael, for families, for public employees, for children, in Kherson, and Zaporizhzhia, so areas that are now under Russia's control. The situation is that last year around May 2002, Russia passed decree
 
 signed by Vladimir Putin that basically set a deadline next July for all Ukrainians living in Russia occupied areas to move to Russian citizenship, basically a Russian passport. And those that don't accept Russian citizenship, could be deported into Russia, could be detained and are already being denied benefits such as health care, family benefits, pensions.
 
HOLMES: And what does that mean? I mean, we hear a lot about soldiers, the front lines and so on, but these are ordinary civilians. How is this impacting the daily lives of these Ukrainian citizens and their families? As I said, ordinary people.
 
RAYMOND: Well, it affects them in very real ways, Michael. They can't register for electricity.
 <br>[01:20:03]
 
They can't access humanitarian aid in conflict affected areas. They don't have rights to property. And if a child is born and the parent does not accept Russian citizenship, they don't have maternal and family benefits in the first few months or years of that child's life. And then children that after July of next year will be forced to accept Russian passports when born in these areas. So this will effectively leave tens of thousands of people stateless if they don't submit.
 
HOLMES: And you mentioned -- you mentioned the kids because quite apart from the force citizenship issue, speak to the issue of forced deportation of Ukrainian children. And essentially, it's called what it is kidnapping them. Estimates vary. It's certainly thousands of kids, the Russian presidential Commissioner for, quote unquote, children's rights, say 700,000 Ukrainian children have been taken to Russia. How serious is that issue?
 
RAYMOND: It is as serious as you can get, Michael. It constitutes a war crime is a violation of the Geneva Convention for both the interconnected and distinct crimes, forced transfer, and forced deportation, it can also constitute a crime against humanity and like the passportazation issue. Both of these issues are sub component acts of genocide.
 
HOLMES: So one, you know, the thing that gets me is what's likely to happen to these children even after the war. I mean, it's difficult to imagine the psychological damage that has been done even as we speak.
 
RAYMOND: I have been involved in efforts to reunite children in the case of Guatemala, decades after they were separated from their parents. And I've been working on the children's issue here in Ukraine for the past more than a year. 
 
And the issue is the -- these are impacts from Russia's actions that will echo for generations, Michael, and we are looking at a situation where if these children go home, it will require probably DNA testing in years of investigation litigation. I've seen it in Guatemala. I've seen it in Africa, and unfortunately, we're about to see it in Ukraine.
 
HOLMES: It's just awful. The International Criminal Court has, of course, issued arrest warrants over the issue of child deportation. If these are indeed war crimes, and you know, if so how likely is it that anyone will ultimately help be held to account? I mean, what needs to happen?
 
RAYMOND: Well, the first step is Russia needs to follow the law underneath the Geneva Convention, Michael, and the law is basically a user's manual to what Russia should have done in this scenario. The first step that's required by the amended protocols to the Geneva Convention is for them to register the children. 
 
The second step is to move them to a third party country, which they did not do. The third and fourth step is to let them call home and to let Red Cross and U.N. monitors access the camps. None of that's happening in our report, which preceded by one month the indictments by the International Criminal Court. 
 
We identified that over at least 6,000 children had been sent to reeducation camps, in over 43 facilities were having children. The next two weeks, we're going to release a follow up to that report. And also reporting on the situation for children in Belarus.
 
HOLMES: Yes, and you know, it's being described by some Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Europe calls it perhaps genocidal. Nathaniel Raymond, got to leave it there, unfortunately, really appreciate you making the time. It's a hugely important issue. 
 
A verdict is expected in the coming hours in the trial of Russian opposition figure Alexei Navalny. He's accused of creating a quote, extremist community on social media. Thursday, Navalny said he expected a long sentence he tweeted this quote, it's going to be a huge term. This is what's called a Stalinist term. They asked for 20 years so they will give 18 or something around it. 
 
Navalny calls the charges politically motivated and says they're intended to silence his criticism of Russia's president. Navalny is already serving an 11 and a half year sentence. Friday's verdict could add decades to his time in prison. 
 
2 million Palestinians in Gaza now facing the real possibility of a major source of their food could soon disappear. We'll have a report coming up. 
 
Also, heavy rain creates a terrifying situation in China, washing away a bridge and sending cars humbling. We'll have details on that as well when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:26:52]
 
HOLMES: Israel's Supreme Court spent five hours on Thursday hearing arguments over a radical new law that makes it much harder to remove the prime minister from office. The Court adjourned without providing any guidance on what it might do next door when. 
 
The controversial law passed in March eliminates conflict of interest as a valid reason to remove the country's leader. Critics say that directly benefits Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu who is facing multiple corruption charges. Despite months of massive public protests, Mr. Netanyahu denies any wrongdoing. 
 
Palestinians in Gaza are now facing a much more urgent crisis of potential cut in food supplies. Thousands protested on Sunday over soaring prices and power outages. Now the World Food Program warns it is running out of money to keep providing Gaza with flour, cooking oil and other basics. CNN's Richard Greene with our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RICHARD GREENE, CNN JERUSALEM BUREAU CHIEF (voiceover): The World Food Program aid warehouse in Gaza, people collecting staples like flour, lentils, chickpeas, and olive oil produced locally and bought by the agency to distribute to people in need. From Palestinians for Palestinians. 
 
About 20,000 people rely on food handouts from this distribution center, one of the two WFP aid centers in Gaza where unemployment is over 45 percent. But they may soon be going hungry as the World Food Program itself is running out of donor funds. 
 
People like Khader Khder, he works one or two days a month in construction, earning less than $30. That's not enough to buy even one of these bags of flour, an essential ingredient to keep his family of 10 alive.
 
KHADER KHDER, WFP AID RECIPIENT (through translator): Generally if we have flour at home, everything's fine. We're not asking me for luxury. As long as we have flour. It means we have food. We do not cook every day but we make bread every day. 
 
GREENE: Only one of Khader's eight children is working. One daughter is married, one disabled and two are still in school. One son works as a trader in the market, but his other three sons are unemployed.
 
KHDER (through translator): If there was workshop, they would have worked. But the situation is very hard. And there is no way.
 
GREENE: The WFP is in danger of running out of money, already reducing the amount of aid at hands out and warning that by November it will be forced to suspend operations in Gaza and the West Bank if more funding doesn't come through. That would be a nightmare for Samar Al Bayyouk, who shops in WFP approved stores with a card issued by the aid agency rather than getting commodities from a warehouse.
 <br>[01:29:46]
 
SAMAR AL BAYYOUK, WFP AID RECEPIENT (through translator): If this help stops, my whole life will stop. I know people that stopped having and I can see their lives just stop. If they tell me one day that I will stop getting it, I might have a heart attack on the spot. RICHARD GREENE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Al Bayyouk supports a family of
 
 seven and the WFP aid means she can buy meat, cheese, salt, even jam and chocolate for her kids. 
 
Until recently, the WFP supported 275,000 people in Gaza this way. But with money running short, first they cut the amount of money each recipient got, and then started cutting people off completely. 
 
Al Bayyouk doesn't know what she will do if that happens to her. 
 
AL BAYYOUK: I wouldn't be able to buy all this without the voucher. I may buy one thing and some days we may stay without anything. Without this voucher, we cannot live. 
 
GREENE: She is far from alone. 
 
Two out of three of Gaza's 2 million plus people struggle to put food on the table, and unless donors come up with the $41 million the aid agency says it needs for Palestinians by November, Gaza and the West Bank may not have the World Food Programme to help. 
 
Richard Greene, CNN -- Gaza. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Two U.S. Navy sailors are facing serious charges of spying. Coming up, the secret they are being accused of selling to China. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: All right. 
 
Let's get you up to date on our top story. 
 
A magistrate judge has set Donald Trump's next court date for August 28th. The former president now back in New Jersey after pleading not guilty to four felony counts in a plot to overturn the 2020 election. 
 
Trump posted on Truth Social, quote, "I was arrested by my political opponent who was losing badly to me in the polls -- crooked Joe Biden. It was a very good day.
 
However not that good because sources tell CNN Trump was in, in fact, a sour mood and dejected when he left the courthouse. His political allies though are lining up to come to his defense. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA), SPEAKER OF TH EHOUSE: Someone raised question, and you know, in America you're entitled to raise a question. You're entitled to question whether it was honest or not. That is the uniqueness of the First Amendment. that is the uniqueness of America. 
 
But you know what, you shouldn't be prosecuted for your thoughts. And the difference here is when Hillary Clinton said it, nothing happened to her. When they said it in Georgia's election, nothing happened to them, either. You know what, when the DNC said it, nothing happened to them either. 
 
So stop using government to go after people who politically disagree with you. That is wrong and that should stop now. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[01:34:57]
 
HOLMES: More now from CNN's Chris Nguyen reporting from Washington. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRIS NGUYEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The former president pleaded not guilty earlier this afternoon during a hearing which lasted only 27 minutes. A somber moment in American history as prosecutors seek to hold Donald Trump accountable. 
 
In a historic move, former president Donald Trump was charged with conspiring to overturn the results of the 2020 election, which prosecutors say fueled the violent riots on our nation's capital on January 6, 2021. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This is a prosecution of a political opponent. This was never supposed to happen in America. 
 
NGUYEN: Trump appeared before a magistrate judge Thursday. He is charged with conspiracy to defraud the United States, conspiring to obstruct an official proceeding, obstructing a congressional proceeding, and conspiracy against voting rights. 
 
BILL BARR, FORMER U.S ATTORNEY GENERAL: The government has assumed the burden of proving that. Government in their indicted takes the position that he had actual knowledge that he had lost the election and the election wasn't stolen through fraud. And they're going to have to prove that beyond a reasonable doubt. 
 
NGUYEN: Trump is now facing 78 criminal charges total across three cases, while still the front runner for the Republican nomination for president. 
 
The former president's lawyer argues he had a First Amendment right to express his feelings about the outcome of the 2020 election. 
 
ALINA HABBA, ATTORNEY FOR DONALD TRUMP: What President Trump did is he said, go patriotically and peacefully and protest. That is an American right. That is why we are America. 
 
NGUYEN: Trump has pleaded not guilty in the three cases against him. Prosecutors did not to seek a pretrial detention for Donald Trump. Moving forward his next court appearance is scheduled for August 28th. He is not required to appear in person though. 
 
But that is when the judge presiding over the case will set the trial date. 
 
Reporting from our nation's capital I'm Chris Nguyen.
 
Back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Chris Nguyen, thanks for that report. 
 
Now, two U.S. Navy sailors have been arrested on espionage charges, both accused of sharing national defense information with Chinese intelligence officers. 
 
CNN's Jenn Sullivan with those details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JENN SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A serious breach of national security -- that is how federal officials are describing alleged espionage by two U.S. Navy sailors. 
 
MATTHEW OLSON, U.S. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT NATIONAL SECURITY DIVISION: We stand ready to hold accountable those who have betrayed public trust. 
 
SULLIVAN: 22-year-old Jinchao Wei and 26-year-old Wenheng Zhao are accused of passing along national defense information to Chinese intelligence in exchange for money. 
 
RANDY GROSSMAN, U.S. ATTORNEY FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA: When a soldier or sailor chooses cash over country and hands over national defense information in an ultimate act of betrayal, we have to be ready to act. 
 
SULLIVAN: Speaking at a press conference Thursday in San Diego, federal officials outlined details about the charges. Wei who became a U.S. citizen in 2022, is alleged to have sent documents, photos, videos, and technical manuals to China. And Zhao was accused of providing sensitive U.S. military information, including operational plans for a major military exercise. 
 
STACEY MOY, FBI SPECIAL AGENT: We will not tolerate any attempts to undermine the sanctity and democratic freedoms of this great nation. 
 
SULLIVAN: This is just the latest case of possible spying tactics by China. Earlier this year, the U.S. accused the Chinese government of using a surveillance balloon to capture imagery on U.S. military sites. 
 
Following this recent incident, a spokesperson for the Chinese embassy accusing U.S. government of hyping cases of espionage, and said this is a groundless slander and smear of China. The incident putting further pressure on an already strained relationship. 
 
I'm Jenn Sullivan, reporting.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) HOLMES: Days of relentless rain have caused havoc across parts of China. Video on Chinese social media site Weibo shows one near disaster. Have a look at that. 
 
State media reporting a bridge partially collapsed in the eastern part of the country. What you saw there was a car driving along and then plunging off of the collapsed roadway, into the river below. Fortunately, we are told the driver of the car was rescued at the scene. 
 
Now, the typhoon that knocked out power to parts of southern Japan and killed at least two people on the island of Okinawa has begun to turn back towards the northeast. That sharp turn means it is expected to dump even more rain on Japan. 
 
Meteorologist Chad Myers with the details from the weather center. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHAD MYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST: The typhoon really is the major story here, not much else going on in the region. The storm has lost quite a bit of intensity now though, down to only 130. 
 
So we have lost the eye, we have lost the rotation, we have lost the breathing of the storm and we've also lost the very warm water that was here because it is now all just stirred up. 
 
Still though some spots over 350 millimeters of rainfall. There is the center of the storm here, there is Okinawa back off towards the east and the storm is forecast to turn back off towards the north and toward the northeast over the last several hours and next several days. 
 <br>[01:39:57]
 
MYERS: The only problem I see here is that there is a swing back up toward Japan at the very end of this forecast from the Joint Typhoon Warning Center. It doesn't have a lot of strength here, but still it is beginning to build. 
 
I don't like this trend, back up to 130 kph. As it makes its way into that warmer water and anything can go, plus or minus 10 percent or 20 percent from here and all of a sudden this could be a fairly major event for parts of Japan. 
 
So all the models now beginning to turn to the left into parts of southern Japan. We will have to watch that. Some models are to the left, some models are to the right, but most are doing this. Still gaining some strength at times, gaining some wind speed, maybe getting the eye back. 
 
If that happens, then all of a sudden this turns into a much bigger story over the next coming days. We have seen a lot of rainfall with this, and I think we are going to see more. Even if we don't get landfall we're going to see a couple of hundred inches -- couple of hundred millimeters there of rainfall across parts of southern Japan. And that is going to be the story, more so if it does make that turn to the left. 
 
So here is your typhoon, 130 kph at this hour, we'll keep watching it for you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Chad Myers there for us. 
 
Now, the British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak's mansion was the scene of a climate protest on Thursday. Five Green Peace activists were arrested after draping the house in what they described as oil-black cloth. Green Peace says the move was a protest against Mr. Sunak's plan to max out Britain's oil and gas resources in the North Sea, more drilling essentially. The protesters spent a total of five hours on the roof, no one was at home at the time. 
 
In a statement, Green Peace said, quote, "We desperately need our prime minister to be a climate leader, not a climate arsonist. He seems quite happy to hold a blowtorch to the planet if he can score a few political points," unquote.
 
In response, Number 10 said, quote, "We make no apology for taking the right approach to ensure our energy security, using the resources we have here at home, so we are never reliant on aggressors like Putin for our energy. 
 
U.S. gasoline prices have now climbed to their highest level in nine months, up an average 28 cents per gallon in just the last month. 
 
But don't expect any relief from OPEC. An official Saudi source says Saudi Arabia will be keeping in place it's voluntary cuts in oil production that were enacted in June. That is 1 million barrels a day of Saudi crude being kept off the market. 
 
On top of that, Russia reportedly will trim its oil exports by 300,000 barrels a day beginning next month. 
 
Also affecting fuel prices is the extremely hot weather around the world, which has had a negative impact on refinery operation. 
 
Inflation in the U.K. has improved a little since peaking at 11 percent last October, but it is still not low enough. And on Thursday the Bank of England raised interest rates for the 14th time in a bid to bring inflation down even further. 
 
CNN's Clare Sebastian with details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Interest rates in the U.K. are likely to stay high for several years, though they may not go much higher than they are now. 
 
That is the message from the Bank of England as it makes it clear it is prioritizing bringing inflation back to its 2 percent target, even though this means more short term pain, not only for the thousands of mortgage holders facing much higher costs, but the most vulnerable. 
 
ANDREW BAILEY, GOVERNOR, BANK OF ENGLAND: Inflation has a very serious effect, and in terms of very serious effect particularly on those who are least well-of. And particularly also a number of times (ph), for the makeup of inflation that we have been experiencing because of its concentration and the essentials of life, energy and food. 
 
So that is important. But I would emphasize this point that the economy is more resilient, and that's a good thing. 
 
SEBASTIAN: Well, here's the good news he's talking about, the Bank of England now expects inflation here in the U.K. which is at 7.9 percent in June, is the highest in the G7, to drop down to 5 percent by the end of the year, around half its peak, mainly driven down by lower energy prices. 
 
That is of course welcome news for the British government, which has promised to slash inflation by half by the end of the year. The Bank of England is also not forecasting a recession over the next two years and it says the jobs market is still strong. 
 
But this remains in the U.K., as in many other countries grappling with inflation, a very delicate balancing act. The bank said it is now very clear that higher rates are already dampening economic growth and raising rates for the 14th time in that environment is, of course, a risk. 
 
For now though they are calculating that inflation is a bigger one. 
 
Clare Sebastian, CNN -- London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[01:44:48]
 
HOLMES: Another titan of the Women's World Cup has fallen and a team making their World Cup debut overcame the odds to advance. The round of 16 is set. We will have the details when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HOLMES: Pope Francis got a rock star welcome from young Catholics in Portugal on Thursday. Lisbon police say 500,000 people came out for the pontiff's address, marking World Youth Day.
 
CNN's Antonia Mortensen has our report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANTONIA MORTENSEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Pope Francis officially kicked off World Youth Day in front of a huge crowd on Thursday. Organizers say (INAUDIBLE) 150,000 people registered to be here in Lisbon. His message to the young faithful, don't be afraid stir things up, take care of the planet, and beware of the pitfalls of online addiction. 
 
Catholic youth have traveled here from all over the world for this event which is held every three years in a different location. And it's dubbed as the Catholic Woodstock. And it really does feel like a festival with live music and lots of singing and dancing around us not only here in the park but in the whole city. 
 
The Pope started his day by meeting and praying privately with 15 Ukrainians who traveled to Portugal for this event. He then met with students and staff of Lisbon's Catholic University and during that speech, he urged young people to keep seeking and be ready to take risks in a world which faces enormous challenges. 
 
The five-day trip is taking place in the shadow of clerical abuse scandal here. Earlier this year, a report published by an independent commission, found that troubled (ph) Catholic clergy in Portugal had abused thousands of children over a 70-year period. 
 
On Wednesday evening the Pope did meet privately with 13 victims of clerical abuse. The Vatican described it as a time of intense listening and, during an address, he said that the Catholic Church needs to do better when dealing with victims of clerical abuse, saying that the church is in need of humble and ongoing purification and must listen to the anguished cry of the victims. 
 
Despite his recent surgery and struggles with mobility, the Pope has an intense schedule, with some 11 speeches during his trip, and more events than in the past trips this year including a trip to the country's popular shrine of Fatima. 
 
The 86-year-old pontiff was in very good form on the papal flight from Rome's (INAUDIBLE) airport, and he joked with journalists saying he would come back from this trip rejuvenated.
 
Antonia Mortensen, CNN -- Lisbon.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Thursday saw the final day of group stages in the Women's World Cup and what a dramatic day it was with a powerhouse crashing out and new upstarts advancing their Cinderella runs. 
 
CNN's Don Riddell with the highlights. 
 <br>[01:49:54]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLDSPORT: The Women's World Cup is going to be taking a breather for a couple of days and this tournament has certainly earned it. The drama in the group stage has been incredible. There have been some major upsets and some rather unlikely teams are now living a dream. 
 
Three of the world's top ten sides are on their way home, and it's the world number two, the two-time world champions Germany leading the way. That was the moment they knew they were in trouble. 
 
An early goal from South Korea's Cho So-Hyun put the Germans on the back foot, but they fought back with a header from Alexandra Popp just before halftime. Now, a one-all draw might have been good enough for Germany, but in the second half they learned that the score in the other game could not win out if they didn't win. They tried to score a total of 13 shots on the Korean goal, but they just couldn't get another, meaning that their World Cup campaign is over.
 
This is a stunning upset. In every World Cup so far they have always made it to at least the quarterfinals. Just last year they played in the final of the European championships. 
 
Elsewhere in Group H, Morocco against Colombia. In Morocco's first game of the tournament they lost 6-nil to Germany, but then they beat Korea and then they scored against Columbia. What a calm finish from Anissa Lahmari and Morocco were able to hold that lead until the final whistle.
 
But they couldn't celebrate until they knew that Germany had failed to win that other game. There was an anxious wait as they all watched on a little phone and then the party started. And the joy was absolutely palpable. 
 
Morocco are one of eight teams playing in their first ever World Cup. This time they are the only one of those eight teams still standing. They are also the third African team into the knockout stage of the Women's World Cup. That has never been done before. 
 
Here's a final look at this group, despite losing their last game, Colombia still finished on top shading Morocco on goal difference. Germany could only muster four points from their three games and this is the first time that they had ever failed to make it out of their group.
 
The round of 16 then is all set and it's not just Germany who are noticeably missing. The Olympic champions Canada have also left the scene, as have Brazil, who featured in every knockout stage since 1995. 
 
The knockout round will get underway on Saturday, the first game is going to be Switzerland versus Spain. Back to you for now.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Our thanks to Don Riddell there.
 
Now retired football legend Tom Brady is now a minority owner of a British football team. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TOM BRADY, FORMER NFL QUARTERBACK: So here's the deal. I'm officially coming on board at Birmingham City Football Club. And maybe you're asking, what do you know about English football, Tom? Let's just say I've got a lot to learn. 
 
But I do know a few things about winning. And I think they might translate pretty well. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Birmingham City says Brady becomes chairman of a new advisory board and part of its leadership team. A seven-time Super Bowl champ, Brady also has a stake in a pickleball team and a clothing brand. 
 
As for Birmingham, it needs the help. They finished 17th in the second tier of British football's pyramid system. 
 
Now also out of the U.K., an auction house put a rock and roll star's million-dollar baby under the hammer. 
 
Straight ahead, the piano where some Queen songs were conceived. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:54:50]
 
(MUSIC)
 
HOLMES: That is Freddie Mercury, of course, at his piano with one of Queen's signature hit, "We Are The Champions". Now, the late artist's baby grand will be taking center stage next month at an auction at Sotheby's in London. 
 
Freddie's these longtime partner recalls the songwriter saw the piano as an extension of himself and kept it in tip-top shape. Mercury bought with the Yamaha G2 in 1975 and composed Bohemian Rhapsody on it. It is expected to fetch nearly $4 million. 
 
And a Dutchman is literally running towards war. He is on a journey across Europe raising money to help war torn Ukraine. 
 
CNN's Laila Harrak reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LAILA HARRAK, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Dutch ultra runner Boas Kragtwijk is running from Amsterdam to Kyiv this summer, crossing about 50 kilometers a day. The reason -- to raise money to send ambulances to Ukraine. 
 
BOAS KRAGTWIJK, DUTCH ULTRA RUNNER: Just hearing the stories and seeing this war evolving on the news just made me think I have to do something. 
 
HARRAK: The 28-year-old also wants to demonstrate the proximity of the war to western Europe. He plans to reach Ukraine by mid September. The total journey -- 2,500 kilometers divided into three phases. 
 
KRAGTWIJK: This one is to Berlin, (INAUDIBLE) Berlin to Russia, and then (INAUDIBLE) road to victory ending in Kyiv. The timeline: 22nd of July and 50 days, end of September. Hopefully not long, there will be a lot of ambulances. 
 
HARRAK: He's accompanied by his manager and a photographer in a caravan, where the team eats and sleeps. At the end of the run the caravan will stay in Ukraine to be used by a medical team. 
 
KRAGTWIJK: It is going to be warm because you're going to drive straight in the summer, so it will -- it's going to stink, it's going to be dirty, but we are happy that we have something. 
 
HARRAK: Although Kragtwijk has visited Ukraine before, he says he has no close personal connection to the country. 
 
KRAGTWIJK: It is more that I felt kind of maybe you could call it duty, but I just thought it is kind of our turn to do something because it is so close by and it is so terrible what is going on. 
 
HARRAK: After about 500 kilometers, Kragtwijk had raised about a quarter of his 100,000 euro goal on his GoFundMe page. He says that goal would cover the cost of three ambulances. 
 
Laila Harrak, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: I'm Michael Holmes.
 
More CNN NEWSROOM with Lynda Kinkade, next. 
 <br>[01:57:54]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)