Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Ted Egan is Interviewed about Nordstrom Leaving San Francisco; King Charles III to be Crowned Saturday; Henry Winkler is Interviewed about "Barry." Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired May 04, 2023 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:30:00]
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Safer and feel safer?
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: Well, that's two different things. And that's a really interesting question because ridership is up.
 
HARLOW: I know.
 
MILLER: Crime is down.
 
HARLOW: I know. But we still feel -
 
MILLER: But people don't feel safe, not because of the robberies and the assaults, but because of the feeling of disorder. Unhinged people getting in your face on the train. People sleeping. People smoking marijuana. It -- to a lot of people, it feels not in control, even though crime is down. And the mayor has repeatedly tried to sweep people out of the subways, get people to stop sleeping in the subways, get people to care and mental health but it's a struggle in a city that, you know, is suffering from a homeless problem, a migrant crisis, and a resource issue. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: And Abby's (ph) good question to the mayor yesterday was, what people are supposed to do on the subway? Are they supposed to take matters into their own hands, as the way it was what happened here? It's a good question -
 
MILLER: Well, this is really interesting about this individual, whose name we don't have, the 24-year-old former Marine. A part of Marine training is this chokehold. Recruits are trained in Marine martial arts where they are trained, according to the Marine training material I went over, by applying pressure to the carotid artery from the head and neck, the blood flow - the blood flow is restricted to the brain causing the enemy to pass out. This is something they're supposed to use on the battlefield and they're trained in that. It's not supposed to kill somebody. But we have learned from incident after incident that that can happen. 
 
HARLOW: That it can. COLLINS: Yes.
 
A lot of questions still this morning. 
 
John Miller, thank you. 
 
HARLOW: thank you.
 
COLLINS: Keep us updated as you hear more from your sources. 
 
MILLER: We'll do. 
 
HARLOW: Thanks, John.
 
All right, turning the page here on Nordstrom. Saying good-bye to downtown San Francisco. The company announced this week that it will be closing both of its stores in the area come July 1st. That's when their leases expire. In a memo obtained by CNN, the retailer's chief stores officer, Jamie Nordstrom, writes this, decisions like this are never easy and this one has been especially difficult. But as many of you know, the dynamics of the downtown San Francisco market have changed dramatically over the past several years impacting customer foot traffic to our stores and our ability to operate successfully. 
 
Nordstrom is not alone in this decision. In fact, "The San Francisco Standard" has tracked at least 20 major store closures in that Union Square area -- that's really the center of downtown San Francisco -- since just 2020. The city is staring down a nearly $800 million budget deficit over the next two years. 
 
Let's talk about all of this with the chief economist for the city and county of San Francisco, Ted Egan.
 
Good morning, Ted, and thank you. 
 
TED EGAN, CHIEF ECONOMIST, CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO: Good morning. Nice to speak with you. 
 
HARLOW: Video of robberies, you know, have gone viral in San Francisco. Is this about crime? 
 
EGAN: Well, crime may be a part of it, but, again, similar to your previous segment about New York, the crime data for San Francisco shows that property crime, violent crime are trending down. So, you know, we have less crime in the neighborhood where Nordstrom was than we did before the pandemic. So, I think maybe the perception of safety may be an issue that's depressing foot traffic, but I think there are bigger forces at play. 
 
HARLOW: What are those bigger forces, Ted? 
 
EGAN: Well, San Francisco's had a slow recovery economically from the pandemic. And the biggest factor for that is that people aren't coming into the offices. Offices are a very big part of the city's economy. They generate about 80 percent of our GDP. And, you know, they're hall full on a given day. With that we're not seeing the business tourism and the conventions, and that gives downtown a kind of an empty feeling and that makes it difficult for retailers. 
 
HARLOW: So if people don't come back to the office, if they're not mandated to come back by their employer, is there any way that downtown San Francisco can be revived again? I mean Nordstrom is such an staple. They call it, you know, an anchor store, for example. We saw what happened with Whole Foods in another part of San Francisco leaving. I know they're not exactly the same, but if people don't come back to work, what does it become? 
 
EGAN: Well, I think we - we need to wait for the office market to adjust. And it's been a slow process. It's in slow process in San Francisco, as it is in other cities. But businesses still need offices, they just don't need as much office space as often as they did before. And the office market is going to have to adjust for that. We're going to either need to see new tenants coming in or some of that space is going to be -- have to be used for other purposes. That kind of adjustment has to take place before we get the daytime population in San Francisco back to what we're used to. And then it's going to be a better environment for retailers. 
 
HARLOW: "The San Francisco Chronicle" had a really interesting report and it -- the headline was, San Francisco could be in for the biggest doom loop of all. So, I had not heard the term "doom loop" before, but this is an economic freefall for the city and one store leaving makes the next thing (ph) to leave and it's just this bad, bad cycle. Can San Francisco avoid that at this point or is it happening? 
 <br>[08:35:04]
 
EGAN: I don't think it's happening yet. I think there's a risk of it happening in the future. But when we look at the economic data, we see things trending up in a way that doesn't sort of fit the doom loop narrative. Again, it's been a slow recovery. For example, taxable sales in our downtown are 10 percent plus higher than they were last year. It's just been a slower recovery because we're waiting for really the future of downtown to sort itself out. 
 
HARLOW: But what if -- what if the best-case scenario doesn't happen? What if rents don't go down, people don't come to work? Then are you looking at an entirely new landscape, which, by the way, plays into the budget deficit issue because of, you know, taxes that are paid there. 
 
EGAN: I mean, there are a number of things -- difficult decisions for the city and for other actors in San Francisco over the next few years. The city is going to face budgetary precious because of remote work and because of the lack of recovery in hotels. And the transit agencies, which we rely on to make sure downtown is full, we - we can't really get to a full downtown without transit service. They are facing their own fiscal issues. 
 
The issues about crime could lead into a situation where people are avoiding downtown and that makes the environment there worse. Again, I don't think that's the direction we're headed now, but that's a risk. So, there are a number of things we need to get right over the next few years. But I think the idea of a doom loop is that, you know, this is - this is a downward spiral we can't control. I think we have a lot of control. 
 
HARLOW: Yes, look, there's still a lot of wonderful things about the city of San Francisco. A place I certainly love. So, I know we're focusing on the challenges here. There's still a lot of great here. 
 
Ted Egan, thank you and good luck. 
 
EGAN: Thank you very much. 
 
HARLOW: You got it.
 
COLLINS: Coming up this weekend, King Charles is the third officially - well, the III will be officially crowned. Are Americans going to tune into the ceremony? I didn't even -- struggled to get his name right. We do have Harry Enten here, though, who has this morning's number. 
 
HARLOW: Also, Missy Elliott becoming the first female rapper to get inducted into the Rock &amp; Roll Hall of Fame. We'll tell you who's joining her, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:41:10]
 
(VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: That was the day that Queen Elizabeth made history with the first ever live televised coronation of a British monarch. This weekend her son King Charles III is going to officially be crowned in a deeply religious ceremony, kicking off a three day celebration that will happen in the United Kingdom. 
 
With us now to preview the royal occasion, CNN senior data reporter Harry Enten, now royal watcher as well. 
 
What's this morning's number, Harry? 
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: OK. This morning's number is 70, because this will be the first coronation in the United Kingdom in about 70 years. Of course, Queen Elizabeth II was in June of 1953. 
 
And I will note that this comes at a low point in Americans' opinions on the U.K. royal family. So, you know, about 30 years ago, we -- 66 percent of Americans had a favorable view of the U.K. royal family. Look where it is today. It has dropped all the way down to 27 percent. More Americans have an unfavorable view of the U.K. royal family at just 38 percent. 
 
And I will note, you know, this is something that I find to be fascinating. Americans on U.K. royal news, do we care? Just 32 percent of us actually give a hoot compared to 63 percent who say they don't care, they are sick of the royals. 
 
HARLOW: Really? 
 
ENTEN: Yes. 
 
HARLOW: Why? 
 
ENTEN: I guess, you know, it's just all the drama, right? You've got Harry -- 
 
HARLOW: Come on, people love drama. 
 
COLLINS: And -
 
ENTEN: They love it but they're a little sick of it. 
 
COLLINS: I feel like the viewers of "The Crown" would refute these numbers because everyone watches the -
 
HARLOW: Like the Netflix show?
 
COLLINS: Yes, people are obsessed with "The Crown." 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
COLLINS: What about the U.K. generally? 
 
ENTEN: We love our Britains, OK? 
 
COLLINS: Very special.
 
ENTEN: Americans' views of the U.K., look at this, 86 percent have a favorable view, 89 percent back in 1991. So, this number really hasn't moved. We still love our friends across the pond. But this is, I think, one of my favorite questions. Americans who want a U.S. royal family, just 11 percent do. That's up from 3 percent. But the fact is, keep the crown across the pond. We like our republic. No monarchy involved. Thank you. 
 
HARLOW: Thank you for the speech, Harry Enten. 
 
COLLINS: Why did it go up from 3 percent to 11 percent, you think? 
 
ENTEN: I don't know why. I think it might have been that there were fewer undecideds. And we were coming off of World War II as well back then. So maybe the distant memories of someone who's too powerful, you know, those memories have gone adios. So, I don't know. 
 
HARLOW: Adios. Thanks, Harry.
 
COLLINS: Thanks.
 
ENTEN: Thank you.
 
COLLINS: King Harry, thank you. 
 
HARLOW: Season four of "Barry" is underway. Up next you'll hear our conversation with TV legend Henry Winkler and his Emmy-winning performance in it. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HENRY WINKLER, ACTOR: But can't we focus on all the stuff I did to protect you? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I guess I'm just disappointed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:47:59]
 
HENRY WINKLER, ACTOR: I don't go, hey! I go, hey. 
 
Deeper voice. Hey! 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: He became an icon as "The Fonz" in "Happy Days," but these days Henry Winkler is being hailed for his work on the hit HBO series "Barry," which is now in its fourth and final season. If you don't know, the show follows the story of a hitman who finds himself in the Los Angeles acting scene. Winkler plays Barry's acting teacher in the show.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HENRY WINKLER, ACTOR: Yes? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gene, listen, I got to the bottom of the mountain and my cell just leapt to life. 
 
WINKLER: Can't you just say I got service like everybody else? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Barry Berkman escaped from prison. It happened sometime late yesterday. 
 
WINKLER: Well, well, what -- he knows where this place is. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I highly doubt that he'd be going to Big Bear. You know, you're literally on the top of a mountain. 
 
WINKLER: Well, you've got to come back and get me. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And bring you back to L.A.? No, no, no. Listen, I just spoke with the D.A. and he said it was a fortunate event that you're sequestered up there. 
 
WINKLER: I am a sitting (EXPLETIVE DELETED) duck, Tom! 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: And Henry Winkler is here with us now. 
 
Clearly, as you can see from that clip, the show has got some real drama to it and it's - is explosive. HENRY WINKLER, ACTOR, HBO/HBO MAX "BARRY": It does. You never know where this show is going to go. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. 
 
WINKLER: We're all inside Bill Hader's mind. That is -- and as long as you're comfortable, as long as you've packed for two weeks, you're fine. 
 
COLLINS: And are you comfortable being in Bill Hader's mind? 
 
WINKLER: I am. The man is a genius. 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
WINKLER: We have two creators. Alec Berg, the creme de la creme of comedy writing. Bill Hader, who wanted to be a director, diverted his life to "Saturday Night Live," came back to what he should be doing. 
 
COLLINS: You're an acting teacher in the show? 
 
WINKLER: I am. 
 
COLLINS: How did you - I mean, I assume you've been in front of acting teachers before in your life. 
 
WINKLER: Fourteen. 
 
COLLINS: Fourteen. 
 
WINKLER: I had 14 different teachers.
 
COLLINS: In your real life?
 
WINKLER: In my real life. And then you take that, you take your imagination of what it would be like to be a teacher, you take the notes that Alec Berg's wife took when she was in class that they based the guy that I'm playing on.
 <br>[08:50:14]
 
You mix it up, push it in and spit it out. 
 
COLLINS: And how does it come across, do you think? 
 
WINKLER: I have fun. I think that - I - I -- Bill said that I said to them halfway through the first year, I said, oh, he's an (EXPLETIVE DELETED). I had no idea.
 
COLLINS: Halfway through the year? 
 
WINKLER: Yes. I didn't know. I just thought he was like thoughtless. 
 
COLLINS: People who - if they're not watching "Barry," the people who know you just as The Fonz or as the many characters you've played and see your role as an actor assume that you've just always known that you were destined for success. Did you always know that this was going to be your life's work? 
 
WINKLER: I knew I wanted it to be my life's work. I didn't know that it would turn out to be so wonderful and so varied. You know, there were periods when nothing happened for eight or nine years. And then I reinvented myself. 
 
COLLINS: You've been such a mainstay on people's screens for so long through all this time. We were talking in the -- before we sat down about where we are in this moment in 2023. 
 
WINKLER: Right.
 
COLLINS: As, obviously, you know, we're approaching an election season, a presidential election. 
 
WINKLER: Yes.
 
COLLINS: Because of given the roles that you play, the way you intersect with these kinds of things, how do you see where we are now? 
 
WINKLER: I see where we are now -- my thought is, imagine a catastrophe, a natural catastrophe, which we have now experienced a lot of. Human beings are on their roof. Everything that they own is underneath and destroyed underneath the roof. A boat is coming. Do you say, what is your political affiliation? Whoa! You're -- that's not the right party for me. Turn the boat around. Or do you say, I need you, save me. We need each other. What the hell are we doing? 
 
COLLINS: Do you think we've lost that? 
 
WINKLER: I think we better listen to each other and this -- this kind of micro cutting ourselves into shreds and separating ourselves like by an ocean is insane and untenable. But that's only a thought. 
 
COLLINS: One thing you said that I loved -
 
WINKLER: Yes.
 
COLLINS: You said that one of the best gifts that your marriage brought you was your father-in-law. 
 
WINKLER: Yes, that's true. 
 
COLLINS: And you have an important message that you wanted to share today about him. 
 
WINKLER: Right. So, I was invited by Apellis to join this campaign for eye care, eye health. And I know how important my eyes are. My father- in-law was a robust, six-foot mustached dentist. And funny. And just a wonderful man who accepted me as Henry, didn't care about what I did. It was different than my own family. Slowly, I watched his sight disintegrate. And he had age-related macular degeneration, which then can proceed to this is -- geographic atrophy, which is incurable. So, there is a website called GA -- geographic atrophy -- Won't Wait. GA Won't Wait. And I say, neither should you. Get your eyes checked now. You can't screw around with looking at everything on this incredible earth. 
 
COLLINS: It's an important tribute and lovely for you to say that. 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
WINKLER: I'm very happy you asked me to be here. 
 
COLLINS: Thank you. 
 
HARLOW: What a fantastic guy. And I'm now been convinced by Kaitlan to watch that show. 
 
The Rock 'n Roll Hall of Fame announcing its 2023 inductees. We'll tell you who made the cut. Here's a hint for one of them. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:58:35]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILLIE NELSON, MUSICIAN (singing): But you were always on my mind. You were always on my mind.
 
COLLINS: Yadi (ph)? Yahtzee (ph)?
 
HARLOW: That's a different conversation for another day. But that, of course, was Willie Nelson's classic "Always on My Mind." He just turned 90 years old. He headlines this year's Rock 'n Roll Hall of Fame inductees. The country music legend six -- joined six other performers recently voted into the Hall of Fame. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHERYL CROW, MUSICIAN (singing): If it makes you happy, it can't be that bad. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: One of those artists is the Sheryl Crow. The country rock star has won nine Grammys during her 30-plus year career. But this year's class crosses many genres of music. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MISSY ELLIOTT, MUSICIAN (rapping): Missy be puttin it down. I'm the hottest round.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: Missy Elliott also becoming the first female rapper to ever be inducted om the Hall of Fame. Highly deserved. She did it in her first year of eligibility, actually. 
 
The harder side of Rock 'n Roll also represented. 
 
(VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: That epic rif (ph), of course, Rage Against the Machine, who revolutionized the '90s rock scene by mixing hard rock and hip hop all together, all as they injected their own political messages and activism into their music. 
 
Kate Bush, George Michael, The Spinners, all round out the other inductees in the performer category. 
 <br>[09:00:04]
 
There were six more beyond that list, including Chaka Khan and "Soul Train" host Don Cornelius. All of them are going to be included. It's going to be epic to watch. 
 
Can I say, in college, I was working for "The Tuscaloosa News," interning for them.
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
COLLINS: My first concert that I covered for them was Willie Nelson. 
 
HARLOW: Was it?
 
COLLINS: And my write-up was on the front page of the paper and it was epic. HARLOW: Epic byline.
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
HARLOW: I love that. 
 
OK, guys, I am on vacation tomorrow. 
 
COLLINS: I know. Good for you. 
 
HARLOW: You'll be here. 
 
COLLINS: I'll be here, holding it down. 
 
HARLOW: See you Monday. 
 
COLLINS: CNN NEWS CENTRAL starts right now.