Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: India's PM Modi in Washington for State Visit; Global Leaders in Paris for Financial Summit; Kerry: Deal with the Crisis, or We'll have Chaos; Search for Submersible Continues as Oxygen Runs Out; More Ships with Special Equipment Join Search for Missing Titanic Submersible; S&P 500 Lower Amid Hawkish Central Bank Action. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired June 22, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST: And a warm welcome to "First Move" this Thursday and a lot of news and some newsmakers to get to this hour as 
 
 always, including desperate hours a massive search operation continue in the Atlantic for the missing Titan submersible. More banging noises have 
 
 been detected, but the five people on board may have little oxygen left a live report on the latest coming right up.
 
Also, Modi on the move the Biden Administration pulling out all the stops as it welcomes India's Prime Minister to the White House in the next hour. 
 
 Modi set to address a joint session of Congress later Thursday as well. The world's largest democracy India is viewed as a strategically important 
 
 counterbalance to China's influence across Asia and beyond.
 
Plus a financing flood vital climate discussions taking place in Paris among them ways to unlock climate cash for poor nations aiming to ramp up 
 
 clean energy investment. Former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry now the U.S. President's Special Climate Envoy will join us live to discuss those 
 
 talks.
 
Meanwhile, a cooler climate for now on Wall Street U.S. stocks set for a fourth day of losses as Fed Chair Jerome Powell heads to the Senate for 
 
 more testimony on the economy. Powell delivering a hawkish message on rate hikes on Wednesday, Europe also as you can see a sea of red there.
 
The Bank of England taking many by surprise and raising interest rates by a half a percentage point after a dreadful UK inflation print. They have to 
 
 get that under control and an enormous and I call it predictable policy U- turn now from the Turkish Central Bank. It just hiked interest rates by a whopping 6.5 percentage points.
 
OK, let's get right to our top story today and more ships joining the search for the missing submersible in the Atlantic, including the U.S. 
 
 Navy's deep ocean salvage system. Now this has the capability of retrieving objects below the depth even of that Titanic wreckage. Paula Newton has the 
 
 latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAPTAIN JAMES FREDERICK, U.S. COAST GUARD: When you're in the middle of a search and rescue case, you always have hope.
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Well hope is running out against a dwindling oxygen supply.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Very confident that these banging noises come from the submersible.
 
NEWTON (voice over): It also rests on the indistinct banging noise detected by sonar.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The noises were heard by a Canadian P3.
 
NEWTON (voice over): U.S. Coast Guard has disclosed that noises were picked up by sonar Tuesday and Wednesday during the search following the 
 
 deployment of sonar -- by a Canadian aircraft.
 
FREDRICK: I can't tell you what the noises are. But what I can tell you is and I think this is the most important point. We're searching where the 
 
 noises are. And that's all we can do at this point.
 
NEWTON (voice over): Acoustic information sent to the U.S. Navy has so far been inconclusive.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are very aware of the time sensitivity around this mission.
 
NEWTON (voice over): The search area has expanded to twice the size of Connecticut, and up to 2.5 miles deep, with more ships and aircraft 
 
 arriving today to join the around the clock aerial and below the surface search.
 
DAVID GALLO, SENIOR ADVISOR FOR STRATEGIC INITIATIVES, RMS TITANIC: We need to go full speed regardless of what that time is. And find that submarine.
 
NEWTON (voice over): The sub was on route to explore the Titanic wreckage on Sunday but lost communication about one hour and 45 minutes into its 
 
 descent. Five passengers were on board including OceanGate Founder and CEO Stockton Rush, who is now facing criticism for the engineering of the sub.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I've broken some rules to make this. I think I've broken them with logic and good engineering behind me the carbon fiber and 
 
 titanium there's a rule you don't do that. Well I did.
 
NEWTON (voice over): Two former employees separately raised safety concerns about the thickness and integrity of the submersibles haul. One employee 
 
 was fired. He sued for wrongful termination, the other resigned. The lawsuit was settled out of court and OceanGate says it conducted further 
 
 testing on the sub.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: And Paula joins us now. Paula, those banging noises I think and the continued escalation of the scale of this search and those that are 
 
 joining to help providing really needed hope I think but the fear of course on the other side is dwindling oxygen supplies.
 
NEWTON: Yes. I mean look, when we talk about the oxygen supply, it was an estimate right? It was not precise. The great thing there is that given the 
 
 expertise on board that submergible they will hopefully found a way to try and salvage as much oxygen as they can.
 
What is happening today Julia though is a day unlike any other unprecedented in the last four why because they have more ships on the 
 
 surface.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
They have more war planes in the air and crucially the U.S. Coast Guard says that another remote vehicle is now on the ocean floor very close to 
 
 the vicinity where the submersible was supposed to be exploring that Titanic wreck and quite frankly, it is in the next few hours Julia, we're 
 
 likely the best hope remains to find the five passengers alive.
 
And perhaps to more easily be able to bring that submergible to the sea surface. Remember that people talk about salvage operations, this submarine 
 
 itself was supposed to have several ways to be able to reach the surface.
 
And perhaps we'll know more about that and whether or not that can actually become a reality because as we've discussed, trying to retrieve a sub like 
 
 this, a mini sub like this, as many as more than two miles from the ocean floor is quite a difficult task Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, we keep our fingers crossed and I'm praying for good news. Paula Newton there thank you! And rolling out the red carpet President 
 
 Biden welcoming Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House for a state visit the two leaders are expected to unveil a slew of trade 
 
 agreements, including India's purchase of American made drones and a jet engine manufacturing partnership.
 
Modi has also agreed to participate in a joint press conference after some lengthy and delicate negotiations. Arlette Saenz joins us now on this. 
 
 Arlette a very important strategic relationship, a counterbalance perhaps to China, in Asia and around the world in terms of their influence. What 
 
 does President Biden hope to get from this meeting?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, President Biden is really navigating a fraught situation in regards to India. As it's been 
 
 discussed there have been concerns about India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi's a human's rights records also India's kind of drift towards 
 
 authoritarianism.
 
But the White House and President Biden are ultimately calculating that India is a high stakes player that they need to cultivate a deeper 
 
 relationship with, especially when you think about the geopolitical landscape in regards to Russia and also China.
 
So that is why, even as the President is facing criticism for hosting this lavish affair here at the White House, that is why they have decided to 
 
 host Modi for this state visit. Now in just about an hour he will have this official arrival ceremony which will be followed by Oval Office meetings. 
 
 He's also set to address Congress.
 
And then it's all capped off by a lavish state dinner this evening that even includes a chef who built a menu to accommodate Modi's vegetarian 
 
 diet. But there are expected to be some key agreements between the two leaders today, when it comes to defense and technology areas that includes 
 
 India is expected to purchase some drones, as well as there is an agreement that GE will manufacture engines for Indian military aircraft in India.
 
So those are some of the items that they're expected to highlight today along with some investments in semiconductor manufacturing in India. But 
 
 perhaps the most closely watched moments of the day will come in the early afternoon just after the Oval Office meetings when the two leaders will 
 
 stand before the press to make remarks and take questions.
 
It was not known until just yesterday whether there would be an opportunity to pose questions to the two leaders we're told there were very lengthy and 
 
 delicate negotiations behind the scenes with the Indian officials initially bulking at the White House request to hold a news conference.
 
It is very rare for Modi to take questions from the press. There have been concerns raised about his targeting of press freedoms as well. So many eyes 
 
 will be on that press conference. Typically the state visits have two questions from each side. Today's will only feature one question from each 
 
 side.
 
But it does speak to the White House's desire to ensure that reporters are able to ask those questions of Modi today. Now, Jake Sullivan, the National 
 
 Security Adviser, said heading into this visit that the President does not shy away from raising concerns about human rights and democracy that he is 
 
 expected to do so in public and in private.
 
Today we will see how public the President might be with those pronunciations. But it does come as the U.S. is trying to bolster this 
 
 relationship with a partner that they really will think will be an ally heading in for the next decades to come. And if you think of areas like 
 
 defense and space and technology and in their efforts to counter China's growing influence in the region.
 
CHATTERLEY: Certainly and I think to your point too, I'm sure Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to have his own concerns to raise with the 
 
 United States too for a bit of balance as well to complete that game. We shall see the choreography around that press conference will be interesting 
 
 to watch. Arlette Saenz thank you for that!
 
SAENZ: Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK straight ahead, a new global lending summit kicking off in Paris to address how best to financially support poor nations facing 
 
 threats from climate change.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
U.S. Climate Envoy Secretary John Kerry joins us after this to discuss.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". Last month we learned from the International Energy Agency that investment in clean energy is now 
 
 significantly outpacing investment in fossil fuels. But as the IAEA's top man told us the scales need to tip much further towards renewables.
 
And around 90 percent of the spending is currently being done by rich nations and by China. What's needed is some kind of global financing pact 
 
 perhaps to ramp up investment in poorer parts of the world, which needs support to mitigate and adapt to the climate crisis, while ensuring they 
 
 also have access to cleaner energy in the future.
 
Well, right now more than 100 heads of state and government leaders, policymakers and institutions, including the UN, the IMF and the World Bank 
 
 are meeting in Paris to discuss just that. An immersed in these critical discussions is Secretary John Kerry, the U.S. Special Presidential Envoy 
 
 for Climate. And I'm very pleased to say he joins us now.
 
Secretary Kerry fantastic to have you on the show sir thank you for your time! These are pivotal talks, not just for building momentum into COP28 
 
 but as you always said and have said to me in the past, what's key here is money, money, money? What concrete proposals can come from these talks?
 
JOHN KERRY, U.S. SPECIAL PRESIDENTIAL ENVOY FOR CLIMATE: Well Julia, thank you very much for spending a minute with me. I am among those here who are 
 
 convinced that we can summon a great deal more capital to the table in order to speed up the transition to move away from unabated fossil fuel 
 
 burning. That is to say you're not capturing the emissions.
 
But we have to change the structure of how we've approached this. And so there's a really good discussion taking place here today, thanks to 
 
 President Emmanuel Macron, who brought us all together to figure out how do we deploy the literally trillions of dollars that are held by various funds 
 
 around the world who do investing around the world.
 
And what people have been coming to realize is there are huge good investment opportunities in putting that money into clean energy, new 
 
 technology solar wind hydrogen battery storage carbon capture there are any number of initiatives now which attracted more than a trillion dollars of 
 
 investment.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
But we are also being told by the International Energy Agency, that we need to ramp up to about a trillion something per year, for the next four years 
 
 or seven years. That is why we're having this meeting here. And people are talking about new ways of trying to put countries together with 
 
 philanthropy together with the public sector, together with the private sector, so that we leverage very large amount of money that will speed up 
 
 the transition.
 
CHATTERLEY: I think this is vitally important in the discussion over who pays what to whom? You're pointing out that we have billions, trillions of 
 
 dollars around the world that's managed by sovereign wealth funds, these are nation states, but it's private money that's already being invested in 
 
 areas like the global south and in emerging market nations.
 
What we need to be able to do is unlock more of that, because these guys have the power to say to those that they invest in, disclose more in terms 
 
 of what your carbon footprint is, and perhaps do more to tackle it. This is part of it, too, Secretary Kerry, surely.
 
KERRY: Oh, absolutely. And as President Macron said, today, very directly to people, if they're not going to step up voluntarily to be part of a 
 
 process, then they're going to find that we're living in a world where there's a greater amount of regulation, because governments will be left no 
 
 choice but to protect their citizens.
 
I just had an event yesterday, in Brussels with Jens Stoltenberg, the Head of NATO, the Director General of NATO, and with France Timmermans, the Vice 
 
 President of the EU, and they focused exclusively on how the climate crisis is a security crisis.
 
It's a personal, physical security challenge for people in various parts of the world. It's an energy security challenge. It's a health, security, food 
 
 security; all of these things come together. And as these droughts persist, as the weather gets hotter, and you can't grow things where you live, 
 
 people are going to move from where they live, and the pressures on migration will grow significantly.
 
So there's politics in this too. And it's urgent for everybody to understand that if you don't want chaos, if you don't want things unfolding 
 
 in terms of the social structure and the threats that are raised by the crisis, then you've got to move aggressively and proactively to deal with 
 
 it.
 
I think there's a more serious conversation here that I've seen in recent years. I mean, President Macron is really to be credited with stepping up, 
 
 feeling this moment, seeing the urgency of what we need to do, and calling on people to do it.
 
I've also, a lot of us are excited Julia, because there's a lot of money to actually be made in the investing in these new technologies and new 
 
 opportunities. So this is a two way street, if you will, and I think more people are beginning to realize that.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I was going to say actually, and to your point, this is not about charitable giving. This is about investment opportunity to which 
 
 is a crucial part of the discussions.
 
And I know you and I were talking just a few months ago about how it's changing the business model of institutions like the United Nations, so not 
 
 the United Nations, the IMF and the World Bank to allow them perhaps, to take a first loss piece to leverage up the cash that they're controlling 
 
 too, in order to be able to invest.
 
How far ahead of those kinds of discussions because I know many of the leaders of those institutions are present for these talks too?
 
KERRY: Well, let me give you an example. The new President of the World Bank, Ajay Banga is here. And he just made an announcement that the World 
 
 Bank is now going to provide debt relief to countries that are hit by some of these major storms, so that they have the ability to be able to respond 
 
 to the storm and to rebuild.
 
And that is a unique, I mean, that's a really important step forward. But all the development banks are here. The private sector, as you mentioned, 
 
 is here. So yes, there are people here who have a fiduciary responsibility to make money for their clients.
 
But they're also going to find as we go forward, that if they ignore knowable risks, foreseeable risks, and just go in and put people's money 
 
 online, without regard to the impact of climate crisis, they're also going to have a problem.
 
So I think what's happening is people are realizing this is a new world. This is a new set of challenges for the marketplace, a new set of 
 
 challenges for governments. And by the way, there are philanthropies here. There are philanthropies here that can invest what we call first risk 
 
 money. They can be at the front end of the deal. They can take if there were a problem they would take the first loss.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
And that gives other investors a great deal of comfort it de-risks. And we're trying to figure out ways, in which we can de-risk on a larger scale.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, de-risking leveraging money, but everybody being around the table to do this the best way we can. And, again, we'll reiterate, 
 
 there's money to be made in this process too. This is not about just charitable giving. As you and I have also discussed in the past, we're not 
 
 fixing this crisis, even tackling it best if we're not doing so in line with big nations like India, for example, like China.
 
Can I ask you in light of the recent trip by the Secretary of State's Antony Blinken to Beijing, and subsequent discussions of language with 
 
 President Biden and President Xi, whether we're in a stronger position today than we were, or not versus two weeks ago, even.
 
KERRY: I certainly hope we are in a stronger place. I can't adjudicate that. But I'm hoping that we are obviously. But I think that we're moving 
 
 forward in a lot of ways. I had a very good conversation with my Chinese counterpart just a few days ago. We exchanged thoughts about when a visit 
 
 might be appropriate.
 
But also we talked about what they're doing, what we're doing, how we can mesh those together, China has actually deployed a remarkable amount of 
 
 renewable energy way ahead of all the other nations put together, including us. But China also has a lot of coal plants and coal dependency, and their 
 
 emissions are higher.
 
And obviously, we want to work with China to try to reduce that impact, just as we are working on it here at home, which we are doing. So there's a 
 
 lot of work to be done. Here's the bottom line, the world will benefit if China and the United States can work together on this.
 
President Biden has said he believes this is not a bilateral issue. It's a universal threat to humankind. And President Xi has said he believes this 
 
 ought to be treated as a separate issue. And the Chinese have reiterated that recently. So my hope is that we can now get together, do the things 
 
 necessary to build confidence in the relationship begin to change the dynamics of the relationship.
 
And obviously, yes, work through some difficult issues that exist. But also, both of us step up, as the two largest economies in the world, the 
 
 two largest emitters of greenhouse gas pollution, we really do have to join together to make sure the world can meet the target of holding the earth's 
 
 temperature increased to 1.5 degrees. That's a tough target. And it's going to take every effort by all nations to get there.
 
CHATTERLEY: The United States, again, as we've discussed, his debt certainly made a huge step in the right direction with the Inflation 
 
 Reduction Act, the enormous climate deal. That was agreed on a bipartisan basis. It's so powerful. I think that I've had many discussions with both 
 
 European leaders, but also businesses in Europe saying we simply can't compete and as good as it is for the planet.
 
It poses a whole new set of challenges. Secretary Kerry, how were discussions going on perhaps adjusting that with a view to and the 
 
 Europeans being perhaps a little politely irate about their ability to match the sheer scale and power of what the U.S. has done?
 
KERRY: Well, as I said, I was just in Brussels. I met with the Vice President of the EU and the President of the council. Ursula von der Leyen, 
 
 the President of the Commission, has said publicly that she believes we can both work together with respect to the IRA, in ways that don't require us 
 
 to compete in any harmful way whatsoever.
 
We need to help each other. And I think there are many benefits that will come out of the IRA that Europe and other parts of the world will benefit 
 
 from, hopefully new technologies that can be deployed cheaper ways of reducing emissions and making this transition.
 
And we look on the EU as really critical partners in this they have set ambitious targets. They're moving towards those targets. Germany is almost 
 
 at 57 percent renewable today, moving to 80 percent renewable, other countries in Europe are doing exceptionally well. So I'm very confident 
 
 that we're going to find a common ground here.
 
Moreover, Europe also we've encouraged to do the same thing, invest, push this curve of innovation and creativity, because that's how we're going to 
 
 get through this crisis. And we're very, very hopeful that we'll work through any kinks in the process on the way to that vision of Cooperation.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: I want to circle back and just end where we began which was on the talk of the sheer financial power that we're talking about with 
 
 sovereign wealth funds being invested in in pushing, promoting, and finding good returns in this sphere in renewable energy in particular.
 
And you and I also met at the back end of last year with the one planet sovereign wealth fund organization, the network that I know you and 
 
 President Macron promote. I walked away thrilled about the potential that this has for galvanizing energy support and money. Would you agree, 
 
 Secretary Kerry, that as big as the challenges, we're sort of heading in the right direction and pulling the right people together to make change?
 
KERRY: Julia, I have to say that in the years that I've been in this, I have never seen so many private sector folks coming to the table, we have 
 
 never had $37 trillion of assets, either owned or under management, sitting at one table with President Macron this morning, where there was a 
 
 discussion about how they can actually accelerate this process.
 
And answer their concerns about risk and so forth. We have to remember some of these funds are pension funds. And there are pensioners in one country 
 
 or another, including ours, who rely on some return of that investment to be able to retire comfortably. So there are certain limits of risks that 
 
 can be taken.
 
Other funds don't have that kind of money, the pension money with the same fiduciary level, but they aren't, but they have to. So, you know, they 
 
 compete for clients. And if their clients say, no, I want to make X amount of money. It's difficult. But still, this is a place where reasonable 
 
 returns on investment can be made will be made are being made even today.
 
There's a lot of space here for those trillions of dollars to begin to invest and go to work and here's what's important. No government in the 
 
 world has enough money to make this transition happen. The only way it happens is by bringing the private sector to the table, it just can't 
 
 happen fast enough.
 
The scientists have told us, we've got to reach a 45 to 50 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, 7 years from now, the only 
 
 way we get there and hold the earth's temperature increase to those 1.5 degrees or close to that is by getting everybody at the table moving to 
 
 these investments, de-risking and countries. And I believe this is a really different moment in this journey with respect to the climate crisis.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, these funds have the power to stay clean up or you don't get my money, which I always find quite fascinating leverage. Secretary 
 
 John Kerry, it's always a pleasure to talk to you sir. Thank you so much, great to get the insights from those talks. Thank you.
 
OK, let's move on Former U.S. President Barack Obama who appointed John Kerry, in fact, as U.S. Secretary of State, back in 2012, sat down with our 
 
 Christiane Amanpour for an exclusive in depth interview focusing on the current state of democracy around the world.
 
The Former President saying a lot of work must be done to regain the confidence and trust of the American people in the democratic process in 
 
 the United States. Listen in.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARACK OBAMA, 44TH U.S. PRESIDENT: Our existing democratic institutions are creaky, and we're going to have to reform them.
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: So let's ask about the creaky or not institutions in the United States.
 
OBAMA: Yes.
 
AMANPOUR: The spectacle of a Former President being a federally indicted, how is the rest of the world, the democratic world, maybe even the non-
 
 democratic world meant to interpret that indictment. And indeed, the fact that a federal inductee is running is able to run for the highest office in 
 
 the land, maybe even the world.
 
OBAMA: It's less than idea. But the fact that we have a Former President who has to answer to charges brought by prosecutors does uphold the basic 
 
 notion that nobody's above the law. And the allegations will now be sorted out through a court process. And I think I'm more concerned when it comes 
 
 to the United States with the fact that not just one particular individual is being accused of undermining existing laws.
 
But that more broadly, we've seen whether it's through the gerrymandering of districts, whether it's, you know, trying to silence critics through 
 
 changes in legislative process, whether its attempts to intimidate the press, a strand of anti-democratic sentiment that we've seen in the United 
 
 States.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
It's something that is right now most prominent in the Republican Party, but I don't think it's something that is unique to one party. I think there 
 
 are a less tolerance for ideas that don't suit us and it sort of the habits of a free and open exchange of ideas, and the idea that we all agree to the 
 
 rules of the game.
 
And even if the outcomes aren't always the ones we like, we still abide by those rules. I think that's weakened since I left office and we're going to 
 
 need to strengthen them again.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: And you can watch Christiane Amanpour's complete interview with Former U.S. President Barack Obama right here on CNN. The Exclusive 
 
 interview airs Thursday at 10 pm in New York and again on Friday at 6 pm in London. In the meantime, coming up here on "First Move", how many hours 
 
 left to find the Titan and the latest on the desperate search for that missing submersible right after this?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move", and we return to our top story the search for the missing submersible entering a dire stage in the North 
 
 Atlantic. It's feared the five people onboard may have limited oxygen left though there have been some signs to provide hope.
 
More banging sounds were again detected. On Wednesday, Miguel Marquez joins us now Miguel, reasons for optimism, the banging noises and we do know that 
 
 the search now is focused around the area that they believe those noises were coming from.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR CORRESPONDENT: Yes, so several things happening now that window of time is closing because they are concerned about oxygen 
 
 and there's a quickening of all of the gear getting into place at the right time as well or as quickly as possible. There are two ROV's, one now that's 
 
 a remote operated vehicle.
 
One now on the surface near where they think maybe it could be another one in the water and headed down that way. Those noises that they heard that 
 
 were first described as banging. Now the U.S. Coast Guard saying, well, we're not sure there was banging, but it sounded like it was manmade of 
 
 some sort.
 
So it happened on Tuesday. And it happened again yesterday. And that's the point where they are focused on right now. They believe those sounds, if 
 
 anything, would lead them to individuals who are alive on that submersible. On the oxygen side of it, while they gave them 96 hours for five people on 
 
 that particular submersible, people that know that sub.
 
Know that people on it in particular PH Nargeolet this very experienced oceanographer. They say that his first instinct would have been to conserve 
 
 oxygen. So keeping everybody very calm on board, they're sleeping if necessary, and basically trying to conserve oxygen for a much longer 
 
 period.
 
Search and rescue still considers this very much a search and rescue. That's my sense, just hearing them talking to them, getting a sense of what 
 
 they're doing. And this urgency, which what they're acting right now is that they will treat it as a search and rescue until they can definitively 
 
 say that there is no hope in finding them alive, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, that search and rescue mission will continue, Miguel, great to have your expertise there, thank you, Miguel Marquez. And Western 
 
 officials tell CNN that the early stages of Ukraine's counter offensive is bringing less success than expected and Russian forces are showing more 
 
 competence.
 
Kyiv says it slow grinding campaign is achieving though notable success in the south. CNN's Ben Wedeman went to a village recently liberated by 
 
 Ukrainian forces although it's still under fire from the Russians. I have to warn you some images in Ben's report are pretty distressing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WEDEMAN (voice over): An unknown Russian soldier lost his life here on a dirt road in the small village of Neskuchne. He was killed in Ukraine's 
 
 counter offensive which has, at best so far put a small dent in Russian lines, hardly the turning point so many had hoped for.
 
WEDEMAN (on camera): This is one of the villages that were liberated by the Ukrainians this one on the 10th of June. And clearly the Russians were in a 
 
 hurry they left behind this blood soaked stretcher.
 
WEDEMAN (voice over): It's still too dangerous for civilians to return to these ones tranquil farming communities and there isn't much left for them 
 
 to return too. The mortar crew of the 35th Ukrainian Marine Brigade has moved into a house recently vacated by Russian troops.
 
This afternoon, they're busy piling up newly arrived American made shells far better than the old Soviet ammunition says -- . They are amazing, 
 
 they're just gravy says they hit the bulls eye my favorite. Throughout the day shelling echoes around them. The Russians may have left the village yet 
 
 they're still by.
 
Mortar training in Britain didn't prepare him for the front. This is only his third day in the line of fire. There are moments when I want to hide he 
 
 says but I have to stay put wait. Unit Commander Alexander takes coordinates from headquarters. His men make the adjustments and prepare the 
 
 rounds.
 
WEDEMAN (on camera): They're firing these rounds in Russian lines which are four kilometers or two miles away.
 
WEDEMAN (voice over): It's going to be a long hot summer. Ben Wedeman, CNN on Ukraine's Southern Front.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, coming up after the break, another very special guest joining "First Move". Watch this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEAR GRYLLS, ADVENTURER, TV HOST AND AUTHOR: Hey guys, Bear Grylls here. And I'll spend my entire --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Adventure turning his attention from the outdoors to artificial intelligence and training young people in digital survival skills. We're 
 
 going to be talking to him, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". My next guest is one of the most recognized faces in the world of survival and outdoor adventure. He spent 
 
 three years as a soldier in the U.K. Special Forces. He was one of the youngest people ever to climb Everest, and he's the first ever Chief 
 
 Ambassador to 55 million scouts worldwide.
 
Bear Grylls is warning young people too, that they need more help to survive working life. The star of running wild says some do not possess the 
 
 skills to stop their jobs from being taken over by technology like AI or automation is warning about digital challenges comes as employers highlight 
 
 a shortage of traditional life skills, such as teamwork, leadership and emotional resilience.
 
Bear trying to address the problem in his own way with an AI driven education portal called Mission Seeker, which aims to help younger people 
 
 improve their media literacy and more. And I'm pleased to say he joins us now. Bear it is a huge honor to have you on the show. We've got much to 
 
 discuss.
 
I know but given what your experiences, your survival skills, I just wanted to get your thoughts at this moment on the rescue mission that's taking 
 
 place at this moment for the Titan submersible, your thoughts at this moment?
 
GRYLLS: Yes, gosh, I say this is a heartbreaking situation a race against time. I mean, technically, the time of oxygen has run out now that was 
 
 about an hour ago. You know, but trying to operate at those sorts of extreme depths is incredibly challenging. You know, you can't imagine what 
 
 those guys have gone through or going through.
 
And you can only hope and pray that now they've got our -- down there that first we're going to locate it. But then they've got to retrieve it. And 
 
 its where, as you said, where to search and rescue become search and recover. I mean, part of me kind of thinks if the oxygen has run out, you 
 
 kind of wonder whether, you know, we did it'd be better just to have a catastrophic oxygen failure early on, you know, or a breach in that 
 
 pressure.
 
So any death was fast. Yes, you can't imagine what they would have had to endure. That wasn't the case over the last few days. But I do think well, 
 
 there's no news, there's always hope, you know, maybe they're managed to make their ops live last longer than anticipated longer than those 90 
 
 hours.
 
I think the reality though, is that it's probably either had a catastrophic failure or got trapped. You know, I think those are two things. I had good 
 
 redundancy in it for getting back to the surface and if it didn't have communication systems.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
It seems that one of those things is what's happened but as you say trying to locate it is the first challenge and that is a serious challenge you 
 
 know the strengths are the sea currents on the seabed. So, hope and prayers are still going up.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I think, to your point, you sort of speculating, as we all have been over the past few days on what may have happened or what might 
 
 have happened. But to your point about the hope there are those on board that have the kind of skills that you have be one that's got experienced 
 
 deep sea diving.
 
They understand perhaps their conditions, what they can do to preserve oxygen, does that also provide some degree of hope too. They know how to 
 
 operate in these extreme conditions as unbearable as it might be.
 
GRYLLS: Well, to be honest, that's a limited hope. The problem with that sub is once you're inside it, you're at the mercy, you have no control, you 
 
 can't get out, you're at the mercy of, you know, those options, and systems work and not getting trapped. So yes, having survival skills is maybe going 
 
 to help you stay positive and as much as you can in a horror situation.
 
But really, you're very powerless in that thing. That's why it's such a nightmare scenario to put yourself in unless you're really certain have 
 
 redundancies in place. Yes, it's a nightmare. My wife -- nightmare, trapped in dark places and stuff, so yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: I'm sure I'm watching you do extreme things, as well as a nightmare for her too, where the family, friends, everyone involved, we 
 
 pray for the best, and we pray for a miracle. Let's move on and talk about talking to children. And this is something I feel very strongly about to 
 
 digital survival skills, whether it's being online, media, understanding fake news. Bear, you're a father. Tell me why you got involved with this 
 
 and why this resonates for you?
 
GRYLLS: Well, I think as you know, you may not alone as somebody who has visibility, but also concerns of the amount of misinformation for young 
 
 people out there. And you know we never had this growing up. Kids now have, it's not like a wave of information. It's a tsunami of information coming 
 
 at them all the time, every day pressures and the anxiety and the stress that brings as well.
 
And I think at the heart of so much of that trying to have a this discernible, effective way of working out what is real, what is fake news, 
 
 what is generated, what is real. And so we're trying to do something that speaks to that try and help young people be digital literate, so to speak. 
 
 I think it's a modern day survival skill.
 
It is, you know, we all have, we know the sort of survival skills we're talking about. But actually, I think as a survivor, you've got to adapt, 
 
 you've got to innovate. And if you're going to be relevant for young people fighting this battle today, you've got to try and do something that 
 
 empowers them to work out. What is real news and what is fake news, what is misinformation?
 
CHATTERLEY: What is critical thinking and logic, the basic logic test come in to, because it would be great if we could identify fake news and fake 
 
 content and AI. I think is only going to make that worse and we're already realizing that. But what kind of skills can you give children beyond that.
 
I think to be able to ask questions of themselves and what they're reading and what they're doing, because this is, key to not just this but life and 
 
 who you meet and how you deal with people too.
 
GRYLLS: Yes, I think firstly, you got to resource kids with effective tools.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes.
 
GRYLLS: You know young people are much smarter than sometimes we might imagine.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes.
 
GRYLLS: I think they are often savvy, we might imagine. But at the same time, you've got to resource them with effective tools that allow them to 
 
 be able to decipher what is real and what isn't real. And that's what I loved about this company seeker, because it was using AI to help kind of 
 
 source the reliability of what people are viewing or reading.
 
So we partnered with them to set up something's targeted for young people to empower them. It's called missionseeker.com. And it's all about setting 
 
 fun, adventurous environmental humanitarian challenges for young people to get out there, film some of these missions themselves and build this 
 
 community, where they can then be part of the seeker community of trying to help young kids to understand how to be digitally literate in a modern 
 
 world.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, new forms of resilience, which I love. I have to ask you as well, while I have you on a completely random story today, suppose a 
 
 potential offer at least of a cage fight between Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla and Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook fame. Two of the world's richest most 
 
 powerful men, a cage fight fair. Take a bet on who might win this. I have no words. Yes.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
GRYLLS: Yes, I think the only answer is no. I mean, the mind truly boggles doesn't it?
 
CHATTERLEY: No --
 
GRYLLS: Probably -- successful count me out.
 
CHATTERLEY: Perhaps they could reach you though I did have a thought in your next series of Running Wild with Bear Grylls. I know season two is 
 
 almost out and you have some great faces Bradley Cooper, Rita Ora, Benedict Cumberbatch. You can talk to me about that you can also talk about the 
 
 prospects perhaps of Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg coming on with you in -- and your survival skills.
 
GRYLLS: -- there you go. You should be the book I really -- you are right.
 
CHATTERLEY: -- my success.
 
GRYLLS: -- like would both be -- guests I think they've got amazing stories and everyone's interested in them. Maybe I'm not sure the cage is 
 
 necessarily the place to express that for them-selves.
 
CHATTERLEY: I don't know --
 
GRYLLS: -- I'm always humbled by running while still working in these stars come and trust the process. And I think these guys want the experience that 
 
 the wild the great outdoors gives us. So I love that super proud of this new season. And Mark and Elon, ready for it. Next --
 
CHATTERLEY: -- now. And also it's a message --
 
GRYLLS: I'm not in the cage.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I know --
 
GRYLLS: -- everything about it feels a bit weird.
 
CHATTERLEY: Well, it's the antithesis of what you do, because you're about getting out there and experiencing nature and wildlife. And yes, I get back 
 
 to what I said before, but the cage isn't a bad idea for them at least. Bear great to chat to you. Thank you so much for coming on. We appreciate 
 
 your views on all the subjects today. Thank you, more "First Move" after this.
 
GRYLLS: Yes --
 
CHATTERLEY: You too.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move", lots of news to about global interest rates on our plates and U.S. stocks are in uncertain States. The 
 
 S&amp;P 500 lowers for a fourth straight session after Fed Chair Jerome Powell stern rate hike message before Congress Wednesday.
 
Powell insisting once again that the Feds inflation fights still has a way to go, and that rates will need to head higher. The Bank of England 
 
 responding to the ever worsening inflation crisis in the United Kingdom to buy hiking rates. A greater than expected half a percentage point today 
 
 that's the 13th straight rate hike.
 
And Norway and the Swiss Central Bank raising interest rates today too as well as the Turkish Central Bank. Turkish officials hiking by a whopping 
 
 6.5 percentage points to a rate a 15 percent in an effort to fight sky high prices there.
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
It was an expected as we mentioned earlier policy U-turn for both the Central Bank and President Erdogan. But officials were expected to raise 
 
 rates a lot more in fact the Turkish Lira are currently up providing support by more than three percent, the small bounce from recent all-time 
 
 lows.
 
Actually that's the U.S. dollar. My apologies the Turkish Lira is lower against the U.S. dollar by just over 3 percent. And President Biden is 
 
 about to greet Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House following the arrival ceremony. The two leaders will hold a bilateral 
 
 meeting.
 
They'll also hold a joint press conference as we discussed earlier before a state dinner later in the day. Prime Minister Modi is the only the third 
 
 world leader to be honored by a state visit since President Biden took office. And as you can see those a live pictures from the White House 
 
 there.
 
That's it for the show. If you've missed any of our interviews, today, they will be on my Twitter and Instagram pages you can search for 
 
 @jchatterleycnn and I'll be right back with "Connect the World", so don't move.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END