Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Truce Extended, Hamas Expected to Release more Hostages; Israel: Eight Containers Carrying Fuel, Cooking Gas Delivered from Egypt to U.N. Groups in Gaza; Oil Higher as OPEC Plus Meets on Future Production; Musk Apologizes for "Dumbest" Post Slammed as Anti-Semitic. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired November 30, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, its 6 pm here in Dubai host city to COP28. I'm Becky Anderson. And this is a special edition of 
 
 "Connect the World" where we will also keep you updated on the temporary truce between Israel and Hamas, the latest on the release of any further 
 
 Israeli hostages in exchange for Palestinian prisoners. Stay with us here on CNN.
 
We kick this hour off though with climate records which continue to fall like dominoes. The COP28 Climate Summit is wasting no time taking action. 
 
 About an hour ago, it formally adopted a climate damage fund to help nations hit the hardest by the crisis.
 
It's also worth noting that one of the trickiest issues for this gathering is the language around fossil fuel use, a primary driver of the climate 
 
 crisis. Have a listen to what the summit's President said earlier today when he opened the event.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SULTAN AHMED AL JABER, PRESIDENT, COP28: We must look for ways and ensure the inclusion of the role of fossil fuels. I know there are strong views 
 
 about the idea of including language on fossil fuels and renewables in the negotiated text. We collectively have the power to do something 
 
 unprecedented. In fact, we have no choice but to go the very unconventional way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, that's the COP28 President Dr. Sultan Al Jaber speaking just a little earlier. The U.N.'s Climate Chief was also at the opening 
 
 ceremony, warning in his words, that the world will "Pay with people's lives if the fossil fuel era continues".
 
Well, COP28 has already had its share of controversy. The summit's President strongly denying allegations he intended to offer, visiting 
 
 official's oil deals, man looming over all of this is one big question. What's at stake at this year's COP? Well, CNN's David McKenzie takes a 
 
 closer look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): If there was ever any doubt, the future is now, a year of disaster spanning 
 
 the globe, made so much worse by the climate crisis.
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, U.N. SECRETARY-GENERAL: The air is un-breathable, the heat is unbearable, and the level of fossil fuel profits and climate 
 
 inaction is unacceptable. Leaders must live.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): These critical climate meetings led by a major fossil fuel producer were controversial before they even began. Leaks 
 
 released this week by the Center for Climate reporting, showing what appear to be briefing papers for COP President Sultan Al Jaber, who is Head of the 
 
 State Oil Company, allegedly pitching fossil fuel deals for the UAE on the side. The COP President calls the allegations false and incorrect.
 
JABER: Sometimes, I am told you need to engage with governments and with oil and gas companies to put pressure. And sometimes I'm told you can't do 
 
 that. So we're damned if we do. We're damned if we don't.
 
MCKENZIE: The UAE is saying that they are here because all countries including oil producers need to come up with solutions to the climate 
 
 crisis.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, they need to be part of the negotiations. But what you can't have is somebody who was putting fossil fuel company's 
 
 interests ahead of the negotiations and the outcome that we need.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): The outcome that the U.N. and many others hope for a concrete plan for a fossil fuel phase out. A recent U.N. report shows that 
 
 the globe is wildly off track to meet emissions targets.
 
ANI DASGUPTA, CEO, WORLD RESOURCE INSTITUTE: It's critical to poor countries to come together and agree to a systematic reduction in a time 
 
 bound reduction. I mean, this is a true moment for leadership. It's not about technology or technical thing. Its commitment leadership, that this 
 
 is something we need to do, we need to come together. Rich countries have to help poor countries.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): The harsh reality, countries that have the least responsibility for climate change will feel the most catastrophic impact.
 
KAISA KOSONEN, HEAD OF DELEGATION, GREENPEACE: At this COP, they need to have guarantees that there will be a fund with sufficient money in it to 
 
 deal with the loss and damages, so the impact could they can no longer avoid and they just have to cope with it.
 
MCKENZIE: If that doesn't happen what's the consequence of that?
 
KOSONEN: The consequences are lost lives you know livelihoods, futures.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): And the consequences for all of us, if bold steps are not taken now are too terrible to contemplate.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, David McKenzie here with me now. And you closed out your piece by talking there about loss and damage that has that fun here has 
 
 just in the past hour been adopted. What do we know?
 
MCKENZIE: Well Becky, what we know is that they're getting to the operational phase of loss and damage. Now this sounds like jargon, but it's 
 
 crucially important because for years, there was debate between developing nations and wealthy nations.
 
How are those who were historically responsible for causing the climate crisis going to fund those nations that are impacted by floods, by 
 
 droughts, by hurricanes, by typhoons that are caused by the climate crisis, and they can't afford to pay.
 
So this is a big moment. It is a good moment for this meeting, right on the first day of two weeks of meetings. The details will be important. Already 
 
 the UAE and Germany pledged $100 million to fund this. The U.S. just over $17 million, which will raise a few eyebrows, but more money could come in.
 
It will be temporarily run by the World Bank, something that is uncomfortable to some smaller nations. But it is a very important step. But 
 
 that's loss and damage. How do you actually stop the effects of climate change, just not pay for those effects?
 
ANDERSON: So what can we expect when it comes to the root of where we are at which is fossil fuel and industry, a fossil fuel industry that creates 
 
 and is responsible for most of those carbon emissions? What do you expect to see at this meeting?
 
MCKENZIE: What you're going to have is very intense negotiations behind the scenes on whether they can come up with language and action on phasing out 
 
 fossil fuels. First coal, then potentially oil and gas in the coming years, but it needs to be specific and it needs to be time bound, is what people 
 
 are saying to me.
 
ANDERSON: No, Joe Biden, no Chinese Leader, no Xi Jinping, at least not at the opening of this meeting. What's the message there?
 
MCKENZIE: I think it's unfortunate that many people are wanting China and the U.S. the two biggest emitters to be here with the most senior leaders 
 
 to lead the way historically, when U.S. and China cooperate on the issue of climate change, other countries follow.
 
We had when President Obama and Xi Jinping announced something it was like a thunderclap several years ago. They don't necessarily have that level of 
 
 push on the agenda. It's unfortunate they're not here. But you have seen the U.S. and China start talking again in recent weeks. And that's 
 
 important because they really need to be at the table and talking to each other to get solutions going.
 
ANDERSON: They're not here at the outset doesn't mean they won't be here in person at the end, watch his space. David McKenzie, always a pleasure. 
 
 Thank you very much indeed. The U.N. Chief has said that Pakistan is responsible for less than 1 percent of greenhouse gas emissions, but its 
 
 people are 15 times more likely to die from climate related disasters and people elsewhere.
 
That was brought to light in 2022 when one third of the country was submerged as deadly floods spread across the South Asian nation. Now of 
 
 course, we are against the backdrop of a vital climate conference this week. And at COP27 the last edition, Pakistan joined other developing 
 
 nations and played a key role in advocating for this global loss and damage fund that we have been talking about to help countries recover from climate 
 
 induced disasters.
 
And as we've been reporting in the last few hours delegates here in Dubai at COP28 has formally adopted that fund. This morning before that 
 
 announcement was made, I sat down with Pakistan's Interim Prime Minister in Dubai to discuss how last year's flooding exposed Pakistan's 
 
 vulnerabilities, have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANWAAR-UL-HAQ KAKAR, PAKISTANI PRIME MINISTER: The reality check was there and we knew at that moment that climate change is no more at fashionable 
 
 conversation point. It has haters at home, and it had haters at heart.
 
At the same time, we did realize that we are not the one who is primarily responsible for contributing and bringing this climate disaster, in which 
 
 two of our promises have sent them, but were just not particularly above stocking. And then I think sort of the sense of resilience was also there 
 
 that yes, it has happened.
 
ANDERSON: To your mind, what will success or failure area look like here in Dubai when it comes to loss and damage?
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
KAKAR: I think first of all, that the success would be that everyone -- if we can make everyone realize that the differential part of this funding 
 
 that it should not be linked with the development funds with multilateral entities rather, it should -- the atomic financing should be treated on 
 
 merit. And it should be additional and the contributions should come in tangible and real terms.
 
ANDERSON: From whom and how should it work?
 
KAKAR: Well, everyone knows who have been contributions in the last one century. So it is more of a question of an honest conversation rather than 
 
 passing judgments on countries and economies. So I think so, if a sense of responsibility comes from wealthy nations themselves, that would be more a 
 
 welcome stuff.
 
ANDERSON: Should it be operationalized by the United Nations or by the multilateral banks?
 
KAKAR: What if we wait for the framework of the United Nations? I think it will take years and years and years. So it can be phased and it can morph 
 
 later on to the UN agencies. But initially, I think so, if it is committed and it is operationalized even under fund or World Bank, multilateral 
 
 anyone, its initiation is more important than -- rather than the talking about the framework.
 
ANDERSON: Give me an example of a good, honest, smart conversation that Pakistan is having with another country at this point that will provide a 
 
 partnership opportunity for Pakistan.
 
KAKAR: So an agreement on loss and damage fund was probably the initiation on this conversation. So that financing in specific projects like our 
 
 living in this initiative, our focus on transforming our coal based plants to renewable energy would be sort of areas which would attract interest 
 
 countries in here in GCC, maybe UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, or others and the settled economies and democracies on the western hemisphere. So it's an 
 
 opportunity for all of them and for all of us.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Pakistan Prime Minister speaking to me earlier today, here in Dubai. You're watching "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson at the 
 
 COP28 Climate Conference, here in Dubai. Still ahead, another extension in the truce between Israel and Hamas what's expected today and what could 
 
 happen next? And the top U.S. diplomat back in the region is pushing for a lasting humanitarian pause, more on that after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
ANDERSON: Waiting for more scenes like this, the release of more hostages held by Hamas on what is the seventh say of a truce between the warring 
 
 sides. This video shows hostages released by Hamas on Wednesday arriving in Israel. Israel in turn is expected to free another 30 Palestinian prisoners 
 
 today.
 
Now this pause in fighting, this temporary pause in fighting allowing these exchanges actually got extended for a second time just minutes before the 
 
 truce was set to expire. Well, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is back in the region working to extend this pause even further. He's met with 
 
 Israel's Prime Minister today.
 
And he also talked with the Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in the West Bank. Well, Oren Liebermann connecting us from Tel Aviv this 
 
 evening. And let's start with this truce extension leading to what we assumed to be additional releases. What do we know at this point?
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well at this point, we are where we have been so many times over the course of the past seven days and that is 
 
 waiting to see the release of Israeli hostages held in Gaza. Now we have learned from a Bedouin family with whom we just spoke yesterday that two of 
 
 the members of their family will be released.
 
That should be notable because it is the first time we have seen Arab citizens of Israel released from Hamas captivity. We'll wait to see who 
 
 else is on the list and who else is set to be released here. But as has been the case so often over the course of the past seven days, that process 
 
 we expect to play out over the course of the next several hours.
 
It is worth noting it played out quite late yesterday. And we'll keep an eye on that. And then following that of course, is the release of 30 
 
 Palestinian women and children held in Israeli prisons only then will we get any sort of acknowledgement if we get acknowledgement from the Israeli 
 
 government that there might be an extension of that.
 
The Qataris have tended to announce it a little bit earlier than that. But that, of course, is the key question especially with Secretary of State 
 
 Antony Blinken here. At some point this runs into the question of cold hard math. Are there enough Israeli women and children held in Gaza still to 
 
 continue this for another 24 hours?
 
The Israeli government has suggested they believe there are enough, and then it's a function of the diplomacy. Is there the diplomatic push to make 
 
 this happen? It happened as you pointed out, Becky at the last second the last few minutes last night in fact and that was essentially early in the 
 
 morning nearing seven o'clock in the morning here. This morning we might see it come down to the last minute again here if it's able to happen.
 
ANDERSON: Yeah, absolutely. Meantime, we're showing pictures of Antony Blinken and Benjamin Netanyahu speaking earlier today. He's back in region, 
 
 U.S. top diplomat. What does he hope to achieve? Is it clear at this point?
 
LIEBERMANN: Well, the biggest push is on the extending of the truce. We have seen the diplomatic push from the U.S. the Qataris, the Egyptians to 
 
 try to make that happen. So he is certainly a part of that. He was also here to -- and he stated this publicly or stated this in the readout of the 
 
 meeting, defend Israel's right to defend itself but also pushing for more humanitarian aid going into Gaza. That's been a major effort of the United 
 
 States.
 
In fact, David Satterfield, the US Administration's point man for the Middle East here as well on humanitarian affairs, trying to make sure more 
 
 of that goes in. We heard from U.S. aid they'd like to see that become fixed, not something linked specifically to the truce itself not something 
 
 that could expire essentially any hour now. But something that continues to go into Gaza with humanitarian crisis there worsening by the day.
 
ANDERSON: Oren Liebermann in Tel Aviv for us. Thank you. Well, Hamas says two members of its military wing carried out a deadly attack at a bus stop 
 
 in Jerusalem earlier on Thursday. According to Israeli police, the attack is armed with an M16 rifle and a pistol carried or arrived by car and open 
 
 fire on civilians killing at least three people and wounding seven others.
 
They say the gunmen were killed by two soldiers and eight civilian. And in the West Bank, Palestinian health ministry says a 21-year-old man was 
 
 killed by Israeli forces during a prisoner release early Thursday. They say he was not among the detainees being freed. Well, CNN's Senior 
 
 International Correspondent Ben Wedeman covering both stories for us from Jerusalem.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
Let's start with the story in Jerusalem, Prime Minister Netanyahu responding to news of the bus stop shooting attack. What is he saying? 
 
 What's the perspective from the Palestinians?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, what the Prime Minister said is that this is yet another reason why this attack is another 
 
 reason, why weapons should be handed out to civilians. And that message was echoed by his hard line National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir.
 
Now, the two assailants come from the Sur Bahar, neighborhood of East Jerusalem, they're Palestinian residents of Jerusalem. And of course very 
 
 quickly, Hamas put out its military wing the Izz Al-Din Al-Qassam Brigades (ph) took responsibility, full responsibility, as it was described in their 
 
 statement for this attack.
 
Now, it's always, it's important to keep in mind that although we're so focused on Gaza that the West Bank, East Jerusalem continued to be occupied 
 
 and continued to be a source of potential extra layers of complications and violence as the fighting is paused in Gaza. But most people believe it will 
 
 soon resume.
 
And in addition to that one as you said one Palestinian 21-year-old man was killed by Israeli forces in the town of Beitunia. That was in the early 
 
 hours of this morning, leading up to the release of yet again another group of Palestinian prisoners and detainees. The Israeli forces went inside the 
 
 town of Beitunia.
 
They clashed with youths who threw Molotov cocktails at Israeli border guard jeeps. And as I said, this young man 21-years-old was killed in those 
 
 clashes, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: And of course, we're at sixth straight day. And that is as long as this truce has lasted to date and as long as these -- this exchange of 
 
 hostages for prisoners has been going on. Israel has intervened to prevent Palestinians from gathering to celebrate the release of detainees.
 
The Palestinian Rafah News Agency reports that Israeli forces are also entering nearby a neighborhood which is leading to confrontations. Ben, 
 
 what more can you tell us? Can you describe the atmosphere, if you will?
 
WEDEMAN: Well certainly, it's a mixture of anticipation because many people obviously have relatives who were detainees or prisoners in under Israeli 
 
 detention. And so every day everyone is looking to see if one of their relatives is going to go out.
 
But at the same time there's apprehension because particularly in East Jerusalem the Israelis are making a concerted effort to prevent not only 
 
 celebrations for the return of prisoners and detainees, they're also actively trying to prevent the media from covering those reunions as well.
 
Now in areas like the West Bank, like Beitunia those are in theory what's known as Area A, which is supposed to be under the security and 
 
 administrative control of the Palestinian Authority. But these categories Area A, B and C really don't have much meaning because we see that on a 
 
 daily almost hourly basis. The Israelis enter into Area A without any resistance from the Palestinian Authority.
 
So yes these events always lead to confrontations between Israeli security forces and the Palestinians. And on more than one occasion, it is resulted 
 
 in the Israeli security forces shooting dead Palestinians, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Ben Wedeman, good to have you Ben, thank you. Well, badly needed supplies of fuel and cooking gas have been sent into Gaza, according to 
 
 Israel fuel was transferred from Egypt to U.N. aid organizations in the Gaza Strip through the Rafah Crossing? Now these deliveries are part of 
 
 this truce agreement between Israel and Hamas.
 
Another 208 trucks carrying food, water and other supplies also ended Gaza after being checked by Israeli officials at the Nitsana Crossing. More than 
 
 70 percent of people living in Gaza have been displaced by the war. That 7 out of 10 people displaced by the war over a million are in shelters 
 
 provided by the U.N. Agency for Palestinian refugees.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JULIETTE TOUMA, DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS, UNRWA: When I was there myself just a few days ago. And you could see in one of the shelters that I 
 
 visited, people were literally on top of each other. There was not much clean water, there were no cleaning supplies. It was very, very 
 
 overcrowded. There's not much food around, people were forced to sleep on the floor.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Larry Madowo joining us now from the Rafah Crossing. And I know the communications aren't easy there. So Larry, I hope that you can hear 
 
 me. Just explain what's going on there and what's expected in the hours to come.
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Becky, we've seen several miles of trucks waiting to cross over here from the Egyptian side of the Rafah crossing 
 
 into Gaza. But what happens and what is slowing down the process is that, every time a truck goes through the gate you see behind me, it does not go 
 
 straight into Gaza.
 
It goes to the Nitsana crossing where the Israelis verify what's in each of these trucks. And then it's only then that they can go back to the Rafah 
 
 crossing into Gaza, get unloaded their goods, and then those get reloaded back onto trucks to transport them across the Gaza Strip.
 
We met a driver here, Becky, who has been waiting for 10 days to make that journey because it's a bit of a holdup there. We understand probably 
 
 several 100 trucks waiting to that process in Nitsana for that Israeli verification process before they can make their way into the Gaza Strip.
 
And that is slowing down things considerably. We've also been to the Al- Arish airport here in North Sinai in Egypt, where more trucks more flights are coming in. While we were at the airport, the military air airport, 
 
 which has become the logistics hub for this operation to get aid into Gaza.
 
We saw airplanes from the European Union, from Qatar, from Singapore, bring in even more aid, more food, more water, more shelter, more medical 
 
 supplies that we will eventually hope to get through here. That is one of the products coming out of Gaza back into Egypt, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Larry Madowo is at the Rafah crossing. And if you'd like more information on how you can help with humanitarian relief efforts for Gaza 
 
 and Israel, please do use cnn.com/impact. You'll find a list of vetted organizations providing assistance@cnn.com/impact when you join me here in 
 
 Dubai for COP28.
 
Just ahead dignitaries keeping one eye on the event, the other on today's meeting of OPEC plus. Will major oil producing nations extend production 
 
 cuts? That story is just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: All right, welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Dubai you're watching a special edition of "Connect the World". We're here at the 28th 
 
 U.N. Climate Conference or COP28 which is now underway. A long awaited deal on a loss and damage fund that was formally approved just a short time ago.
 
It focuses on financial aid to poor countries hit hard and hardest by climate change. Another key focus of this year's event will be how to ramp 
 
 down the use of coal, oil and gas, the primary drivers of the climate crisis. In his first remarks during the opening ceremony, the President of 
 
 the Conference, Sultan Al Jaber praised his decision to work closely with fossil fuel companies towards this goal.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JABER: And let history reflect the fact that this is the presidency that made a bold choice to proactively engage with oil and gas companies.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, the UAE has come under widespread criticism for appointing Al Jaber as COP28 President as he also runs the country's state owned oil 
 
 and gas company. Well, earlier today, he denied reports that he had used his platform at the climate talks to strike oil deals with foreign 
 
 governments and several media outlets including CNN reported.
 
Well, COP28 attendees know full well that the world remains heavily reliant on fossil fuels, even with the ongoing clean energy transition and that 
 
 transition is very real. But this means oil producers will continue to hold great influence over energy prices and the health of the global economy at 
 
 least for years to come.
 
Well today, OPEC Plus officials are holding virtual meetings to discuss whether to extend recent production cuts. Now this group includes many of 
 
 the world's largest oil producers and exporters. Oil prices are on the rise perhaps in anticipation of further limits to production.
 
Anna Stewart joins me now from London. There's always a reason why the price is going up, whether or not we see cuts, but this is one of the 
 
 reasons likely. Look, it's really sort of -- it's an interesting backdrop to this virtual meeting today that I'm here at this COP28 meeting where 
 
 we're talking about introducing language on phasing down or even phasing out fossil fuels very unlikely on the phasing outside.
 
So I think it's important that we consider what's going on at OPEC today. Because whilst we are having those discussions here the negotiators, the 
 
 key stakeholders here at COP28 so OPEC will make its decision on what happens next. What's the story here?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: It's a difficult one I think this time Becky. Looking at oil prices, you said they are slightly higher over a percentage 
 
 point which does suggest that in the next hour when OPEC Plus which includes Russia. When they meet, it does suggest that perhaps they will 
 
 finally agree to something.
 
Now this meeting has actually been delayed due to disagreements with the African oil producers. This has not been easy. And I think that's because 
 
 oil prices are really low. If we look back to where they were even in September, just under $100 a barrel they've dropped off significantly on 
 
 two main factors really.
 
One is the sort of disappointing global economic outlook going into next year and what that will mean for oil supplies. But also it increased all 
 
 supply from outside of OPEC Plus as well, so just too much oil sloshing around. So the big question is will OPEC Plus be able to agree amongst them 
 
 to deepen the already big oil cuts that they made this year?
 
They had already agreed to extend those into next year. I think they've taken in total 5 million barrels per day off the market. A lot of that has 
 
 involved Saudi Arabia taking on a massive voluntary cut, 1 million barrels a day through to the end of this year. It then expired. So I think the big 
 
 question here is will Saudi Arabia continue to add those voluntary cuts to the mix?
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
And I suspect they will not do so unless some of those other producers who really want to sell more oil at this point unless they also agree to take 
 
 big cuts.
 
ANDERSON: Good to have you. Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now. At least one person was killed and 
 
 10 others were injured after Russian missile strikes in Eastern Ukraine. Local officials say three towns in the Donetsk region were hit by a barrage 
 
 of rockets around midnight on Wednesday.
 
Many people were trapped in the rubble of their homes; four children are among those injured. The U.S. Air Force has clarified that eight people not 
 
 six were on board, the Osprey aircraft that crashed during training off the coast of Southern Japan. Search and rescue operations are ongoing at least 
 
 one person is dead according to the Japanese Coast Guard.
 
Well, Henry Kissinger, one of the most influential and polarizing foreign policy leaders of our time, has died. The Nobel Laureate was the longtime 
 
 U.S. Secretary of State and National Security Adviser under Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford. He was 100-years-old. You're with CNN. I'm 
 
 Becky Anderson, more news after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Elon Musk is getting something off his chest and he's got former advertisers of his social media platform X in his sights.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELON MUSK, OWNER, X: If somebody's going to try to blackmail me with advertising, blackmail me with money -- yourself. But go -- yourself. Is 
 
 that clear? I hope it is.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, that was an interview at "The New York Times Dealbook Summit" as it's known. Some advertisers let X over Elon Musk's embrace of 
 
 an anti-Semitic conspiracy theory. But at the same event, Musk denied he intended to be anti-Semitic, admitted it was foolish and apologized for -- 
 
 he call this dumbest social media post ever.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DANA HULL, REPORTER, BLOOMBERG: Musk is not always the most emotionally intelligent person. He's not always the best reader of the room. He tends 
 
 to sort of shoot from the hip and say things without a filter, and that can backfire, which we've seen kind of throughout his career.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, Musk said a few other things which raised the eyebrows that he wouldn't vote for President Biden. But that didn't mean he'd vote for 
 
 Trump. He also expressed his frustration with the Biden Administration for hosting an EV Summit and not inviting his company Tesla.
 
Well starting next year, the UAE where we are here will ban heavy vehicles from driving on its roads. This includes any vehicle weighing over 65 tons.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
Well, a CNN Academy Producer explores how this decision could affect nearly a third of all trucks and trailers in this country. Have a look at this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): From milk and bread to water and cement, trucks in the UAE carry crucial goods across its many Emirates. A new law 
 
 coming into effect next year takes 150,000 of these trucks off the UAE roads. The UAE cabinet has banned heavy vehicles over 65 tons.
 
According to the Ministry this will cut down the annual road maintenance cost by 200 million dirhams and also half the traffic fatalities rate. The 
 
 direct environmental impact of this new law is significant, with an expected reduction in carbon emissions of nearly 5 billion kilograms by 
 
 2032. There is also an indirect advantage to the law as we discovered, less tire waste ending up in the landfills.
 
VIPIN DAS, RETREADING EXPERT: Normally in the way we mentioned tires like black gold. It's a very integral part of the transport sector. Normally 
 
 what happens with the tires, the majority people will make it a scrap or they will send it to landfill? We educate people to how to take these tires 
 
 to give them a second and third life.
 
We will take these tires from the end users, we will take it to our factory to the repainting facility, where we reproduce these tires to an exactly 
 
 replica of a new tire, which will give up to 60 to 80 percent of the life of the same new tire.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Trucks that used to be loaded up to 85 and 90 tons could not use retreaded tires due to safety concerns. With the 
 
 65 ton legal limit in place now, more truck owners will be able to use retreaded tires.
 
With the expected increase in tire retreading, as a result of the new law, the transport sector can divert nearly 28,000 tons of tire waste away from 
 
 the landfill over the next 12 months. Legislation is a crucial first step towards environmental sustainability in any sector. And it doesn't always 
 
 need to reinvent the wheel to make an impact.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Mytri Saxena (ph) a CNN Academician from our Abu Dhabi cohort with that report. "World Sport" with Patrick Snell is after this break. 
 
 I'll be back with more "Connect the World" at the top of the hour, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END