Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Inmate Convicted in Brutal Murder in Pennsylvania Escaped; Proud Boys Leaders Sentenced to Long Prison Terms; African Union Suspends Gabon and Coup Leader To Be President; North Korea Eases Covid Rules, Reopens Border to Ex-Pats; UEFA President: What Rubiales Did was Inappropriate. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired September 01, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Bianca Nobilo.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Max Foster. If you're just joining us, let me bring you up to date with our top stories. 
 
A Typhoon Saola is moving closer to Hong Kong and southern China. Millions of people are sheltering indoors. Schools and most businesses across the region are closed and hundreds of flights have been cancelled. 
 
And Donald Trump pleaded not guilty to trying to overturn his 2020 election loss in Georgia. As a result, Trump's lawyers said he will not appear in person for next week's scheduled arraignment. 
 
NOBILO: The Biden administration has proposed a rule aimed at curbing the so-called gun show loophole. The rule will require people selling firearms at gun shows and, on the Internet, to conduct background checks on potential buyers. The proposal comes a little more than a year after President Joe Biden signed into law the first major federal gun safety legislation passed in decades. 
 
Pennsylvania and federal law enforcement agencies are on a manhunt for the inmate they're describing as, quote, extremely dangerous. They say he escaped from a prison outside Philadelphia on Thursday morning.
 
FOSTER: Danelo Cavalcante is in prison for the brutal murder of his former girlfriend in 2021. The District Attorney says he stabbed her 38 times in front of her kids and warns he could be capable of anything.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEB RYAN, CHESTER COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY: His depravity knows no bounds. I mean, this is someone who has nothing to lose, as you indicated. So I don't know what he's capable of doing. If he's already engaged in a murder in a broad daily -- daylight in front of her two children, there's no stopping him from doing anything more egregious.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Two leaders of the far-right Proud Boys group, have been sentenced for their roles in the January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol.
 
NOBILO: Joseph Biggs and Zachary Rehl each received double digit prison sentences. Both men were convicted earlier this year of seditious conspiracy. CNN senior justice correspondent Evan Perez reports from Washington.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR U.S. JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: A federal judge handed down lengthy prison sentences to two members of the far-right pro-Trump Proud Boys group for their roles in their January 6th attack on the U.S. Capitol. Judge Timothy Kelly sentenced Joseph Biggs to 17 years and he sentenced Zachary Rehl to 15 years. The judge said that the violence on that day robbed Americans of a long tradition of a peaceful transfer of power. 
 
Speaking from the bench during Biggs sentencing, the judge said the nature of the constitutional moment we were in that day is something that is so sensitive that it deserves a significant sentence. 
 
The two men are the first of five members of the Proud Boys set to be sentenced in the coming days, and that includes Enrique Tarrio, the leader of the group. Prosecutors asked for sentences of more than 30 years for each of the Proud Boys members. 
 
Both men spoke tearfully in court, noting that they will now lose out on seeing their daughters grow up. 
 
Biggs told the court, I know that I messed up that day, but I'm not a terrorist. 
 
And Rehl told the judge, he's no longer interested in politics, saying, I'm done peddling lies for other people who don't care about me. 
 
It's a clear reference to Donald Trump, the former president who inspired the violence on January 6th and who faces his own day in federal court in Washington in the coming months. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
Evan Perez, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: More condemnation coming in for the military coup in Gabon with the African Union announcing plans to suspend Gabon from all its activities until constitutional order is restored in the Central African country.
 
NOBILO: The military junta took over Gabon on Wednesday and it says that the general who led the coup will be sworn in as transitional president on Monday. Deposed President Ali Bongo appealed for help from other nations on Wednesday while being held under house arrest -- you can see him here. The coup happened shortly after Bongo was declared the winner of Saturday's disputed election.
 
FOSTER: Gabon the latest of mostly former French colonies seized by a military coup. Let's get some perspective from CNN's Jim Bittermann joining us live from France. So we were speaking to you recently obviously about Niger. Is it a similar type of story?
 
JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Similar but different in many, many ways. But still this is the seventh coup d'etat in the last three years in this part of Africa. The part of Africa which France likes to believe that it has some influence, especially some influence and maintaining democracy. But clearly, it does not. 
 
President Macron was speaking to ambassadors who gathered here Monday for their annual meeting. And he lamented the fact that he -- what he called this epidemic of coup d'etats across Africa. And then just 48 hours later, we have this coup d'etat in Gabon. So it really is problematic for Western leaders and for the United Nations. Secretary- General Antonio Guterres, who had this to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONIO GUTERRES, SECRETARY-GENERAL, UNITED NATIONS: Many countries face deep seated governance challenges, but military governments are not the solution. They aggravate problems. They cannot resolve a crisis. They can only make it worse. I urge all countries to move quickly to establish credible democratic institutions and the rule of law.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BITTERMANN: Each one of these countries have a different reason, I think, for wanting to be behind a coup d'etat. In the case of Gabon, the situation on the streets for the average person is pretty bad. Although the country is very rich. And they were suffering under the hands of more than 50 years of the dynasty led by the Bongo family, Omar Bongo and Ali Bongo. Who were allegedly very, very corrupt. And they had for one thing, houses in Paris. They had a lavish amounts of money that the coup d'etat pooches found in their houses, even in the last few hours. 
 
And so there was a lot of corruption there and the election was very dubious indeed. On the other hand, the coup d'etat in Niger was after an election which outside observers anyway believe was pretty well conducted. 
 
So it's a lot of different reasons, but it's the impact is really unsettling for militarily and political leaders here in Western Europe -- Max.
 
NOBILO: Jim, thank you so much for your perspective and analysis on that. 
 
You know it's a trending story, isn't it? Across Africa, it's unbelievable.
 
NOBILO: I believe the eighth coup since 2020.
 
FOSTER: North Koreans who have been stranded abroad for the past three years will finally be able to return home. That's because Pyongyang has begun lifting the tight COVID restrictions that effectively sealed its borders.
 
NOBILO: CNN's Paul Hancock is in Seoul and has this report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): North Korea's athletes are back on the global stage. Its taekwondo team headlined at the opening ceremony of the world championships in Kazakhstan earlier this month, believed to be the first overseas sporting engagement since its borders reopened.
 
Pyongyang confirmed its borders are reopening to allow citizens stranded outside the country for more than three and a half years to return, one week quarantine required on arrival.
 
North Korean restrictions were among the harshest in the world. It is considered one of the last countries to reopen its borders, and even then, they're only opening a crack, with some international flights resuming with China and Russia. Tourism, though, is still a dream. 
 
Koryo Tours, which specializes in taking Westerners into North Korea, says they've heard nothing beyond plans to repatriate its own citizens. Quarantine alone makes tourism impractical.
 
SIMON COCKERELL, GENERAL MANAGER, KORYO TOURS: So this is businesspeople, diplomats, workers, wait staff, tree cutters, students, all kinds of people, essentially marooned outside of their country, with in most cases, no way to contact family for three and a half years.
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): But Bart Van Genugten went on a tour of North Korea with his father one year before the borders closed. He created YouTube videos of his experience.
 
BART VAN GENUGTEN, YOUTUBER: You go and everybody hopes, maybe, that they will see a bit more of the real North Korea, which won't happen. Like they show you the place that they want to show you, and it's the best of the best. And all the loyal people live in Pyongyang. You know, the wealthy people are among all the North Koreans. 
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
So no, we're probably far from certain realities.
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): He does see value in North Korea seeing foreigners in their country but acknowledges useful interactions with the people are rare. Western tour operators, already a niche market, are likely to be among the last to be invited back. COCKERELL: The tourism market in North Korea, over the few years prior to the shutdown, exploded hugely to the point where the North Koreans brought in a limit on Chinese visitors of 1,000 per day to Pyongyang. That limit was routinely breached.
 
HANCOCKS: One other group waiting to be allowed back in, diplomats. The vast majority of them left during the pandemic, unable to send supplies in or rotate staff out. And so far, only Russian and Chinese officials have been invited back to Pyongyang since the restrictions eased, showing Kim Jong-un's political priorities.
 
Paula Hancocks, CNN, Seoul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: The coach of Spain's men's football team is set to announce his squad for the Euro 2024 qualifiers, but he's likely to get questions about that kiss that everyone's talking about. We're live from Madrid next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Well, in the coming hours, the coach of men's -- Spain's Men's National Football team is due to announce his squad line up for matches during the qualifying phase of Euro 2024. Luis de la Fuente can expect questions, of course, about Spanish football's chief Luis Rubiales. He's under temporary suspension. After forcibly kissing player Jenny Hermoso at the Women's World Cup final last month. 
 
NOBILO: And now the president of UEFA, European football's governing body, has broken his silence. Alexander Cerferin called Rubiales's behavior inappropriate. 
 
Journalist Atika Shubert joins us now from Madrid and has been following all of this. 
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
Asika, we were discussing earlier, how disappointing many of the female players find it that their incredible victory is being overshadowed by all the all these questions and the controversy around this kiss, which is not going away. 
 
ATIKA SHUBERT, JOURNALIST: I think that's very true. And we've heard that from a lot of the players. On the other hand, I spoke to the La Liga FA, the Women's League president, yesterday, and she said, you know, while it's disappointing, there's a sort of divine justice that this is happening. That what's happening to Rubiales is happening because of the issue of women's football. And there are deep structural problems within the federation. 
 
You know, we had a chance to look at this by speaking with the man who filed the original complaint at the World Cup. And keep in mind, the number of complaints has now, you know, blown up to 16. So there's a lot more to come. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SHUBERT (voice-over): At the moment of Spain's triumph, an unwanted kiss now threatens to bring down Luis Rubiales, the powerful president of the Spanish Football Federation.
 
Rubiales apologized, but it was not enough, and he became the target of national anger. A wave against sexism and sport triggered in part by Miguel Angel Galan at his unassuming office in Madrid. Officially the head of the National Training Center for Football Coaches, unofficially the longtime nemesis of Rubiales and the Football Federation.
 
He says he has filed more than 50 complaints against the Federation, one of which landed the previous president in prison. Now, he hopes to take down another with this kiss.
 
It was a sexist and intolerable act, a chauvinistic act, he said to CNN, by a president who is already plagued by corruption scandals and sexism.
 
Steeped in tradition, Spain's Royal Football Federation has long ruled over the nation's lucrative football fortunes. When this furor broke, Spain's prosecutor was already investigating Rubiales for trafficking in influence and bribery. Allegations, Rubiales, has consistently denied. CNN has reached out to both the federation and Rubiales. Neither have responded.
 
And now women footballers have entered the professional ranks. They are demanding equal pay, rights and structural change, says the president of Spain's women's league, La Liga F, Beatriz Alvarez, who's had her own disagreements with Rubiales.
 
In that federation meeting, that totally delirious speech he made, she says, look at how they applauded him. It is unacceptable. It shows that more than the president has to change, the entire model has to change.
 
As the scandal grows, at the Rubiales hometown church, his mother went on hunger strike to support her embattled son. Briefly hospitalized, she continues to defend his innocence, even as others close to him are speaking out.
 
His own uncle, Juan Rubiales, told Spanish news "El Mundo" that the kiss was just the tip of the iceberg.
 
I was not surprised by that at all, he said. He is an extremely arrogant man who has not acted as a president should. Instead of being a political leader, he wanted to be a warrior who sees ghosts and enemies everywhere, he said. In the end, his own worst enemy was himself.
 
Spain's historic win at the Women's World Cup, it seems is forging a path for change in more ways than one.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) SHUBERT (on camera): Now the Federation is trying to push ahead with business as usual -- as you point out -- with this press conference with de la Fuente expected in under 2 hours. 
 
But you know, keep in mind, that de la Fuente was one of those who actually applauded Rubiales when he defiantly refused to resign. So there have been many calling for de la Fuente's resignation as well. And he's bound to face some questions over that in the press conference -- Bianca and Max.
 
NOBILO: It's really exposed a lot of cultural questions. Atika Shiva, thank you so much for following this story for us from Madrid.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TAYLOR SWIFT, SINGER: Welcome to the acoustics.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Do not worry if you can't get tickets for Taylor Swift tour. Ahead, we'll tell you how you can still get a front row seat of the show. That'll get people watching.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: To tennis now, where world number one Carlos Alcaraz has breezed through the first two rounds of the U.S. Open. The 20-year-old defending Champ defeated South African Lloyd Harris on Thursday in straight sets in front of a record crowd at Arthur Ashe Stadium.
 
NOBILO:  It wasn't easy, though. The Spaniard notched 29 unforced errors and will need to step up his game. Rival Novak Djokovic is still in the mix as he seeks his 24th Grand Slam title.
 
FOSTER: Good to see them match up again, wouldn't it?
 
NOBILO: Yes. Lewis Hamilton will remain a Mercedes driver in Formula One until at least the end of the 2025 season. And that's after the team announced a contract extension on Thursday. The seven-time world champion joined Mercedes back in 2013 and Hamilton owns the outright record for the most race wins in F1 history with 103. He said, we've never been hungrier to win. 
 
And you couldn't have a much better day than Atlanta Braves outfielder Ronald Acuna, Jr. One of baseball's leading MVP candidates got married to his long-time girlfriend on Thursday morning. A few pictures of the ceremony were posted on Instagram.
 
FOSTER: And we don't know if the newlyweds had time to celebrate because the Braves had to play the Los Angeles Dodgers on Thursday night. But Acuna hit a Grand Slam in the second inning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SWIFT: Welcome to the Era's tour.
 
SWIFT: This has been the most extraordinary experience of my entire life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: And in the spotlight, Taylor Swift is taking her record- breaking Era's tour to the big screen. 
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
The mega star rolled out this trailer for her upcoming concert film on Thursday. It'll hit screens across North America on October 13th.
 
NOBILO: Tickets are already on sale, with Swift also posting this reminder, singing and dancing, along in Era's attire are encouraged. 
 
Now if you're looking. For something from a different era, check out this new remix of Dirty Dancing, a single from New Kids on the Block. It also features some of the members of the K-Pop super group 17. 
 
FOSTER: Keeping it relevant there, this is the first joint project for the two boy bands. A single plus four unreleased songs on "The Block Revisited." It's a special 15 anniversary edition of their 2008 reunion album called "the Block." Do you remember that? 
 
NOBILO: No.
 
FOSTER: Reborn.
 
NOBILO: Yes. 
 
FOSTER: A highway near Toronto, Canada, was abuzz the other day as authorities rushed to capture 5 million bees.
 
NOBILO: Oh, we all see what you did there.
 
FOSTER: The insects had spilled out of their crates and onto the road, then straps attached to the crates carrying the hives got loose. I mean, it was just cataclysmic. 
 
NOBILO: It took more than half a dozen local beekeepers who were poised and ready -- they were born for this event -- about four hours to corral the bees back into their hives.
 
FOSTER: Poised and ready. Are they like the 911 of the beekeeping world.
 
NOBILO: Yes. I mean, I think you'd live for this, wouldn't you? If you were an amateur beekeeper.
 
FOSTER: Well, it probably doesn't happen that often.
 
NOBILO: One beekeeper was stung repeatedly, but police say that no other injuries were reported and hopefully he makes a swift recovery.
 
FOSTER: It wasn't very good suit then. Was it?
 
NOBILO: No, I guess not.
 
FOSTER: Thanks for joining us on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster.
 
NOBILO: And I'm Bianca Nobilo. "EARLY START" is up next right here on CNN. Have a wonderful weekend.
 
FOSTER: We're buzzing off.
 
NOBILO: See you on Monday.