Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: This is the Second Launch Attempt, the Last Try on Monday was Scrubbed; NATO Secretary General: "NATO Stands with Ukraine"; Superhumans gives Wounded Ukrainians a Second Chance; This 90-Minute Test Flight is not Carrying any Astronauts; SpaceX Launches most Powerful Rocket ever Built; Extensive American Art Collection Hits Auction Block. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired April 20, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNNI HOST: A warm welcome to "First Move"! Fantastic to have you with us for another superlative show filled with truly superhuman 
 
 feats. We'll reach for the stars with a huge state of the art rocket and introduce you to heroes performing medical miracles closer to home in 
 
 Ukraine.
 
First though, to South Texas where the countdown is officially on for the first ever launch of the SpaceX starship, propelled by the most powerful 
 
 rocket ever built. This is taking two of course because the mission was called off at the last moment on Monday, but all systems are going at this 
 
 moment.
 
This is a first move for a spacecraft that could eventually take us to the moon, then Mars and beyond. We're going to be live in Houston with the 
 
 latest and even more technological trends ahead we'll rock it over to the superhuman Center. This is a state of the art rehabilitation facility in 
 
 Lviv, Ukraine.
 
It's offering care to both civilians and soldiers who've suffered life changing injuries in the war, a phenomenal array actually of scientific 
 
 excellence and innovation combined with philanthropy to provide hope, I think to people.
 
For now they're the action on global markets, slightly less hopeful take a look at that and it's actually a sea of red. U.S. Futures in certain need 
 
 of rocket fuel with low energy. Tesla earnings, pressuring the NASDAQ Europe can't make it off the launch pad either as you can see, lowers 
 
 there.
 
XETRA DAX in Germany, the underperformer calm though markets overall, compared to last month's March Madness. The VIX volatility index, the fear 
 
 index as it's known, currently sitting at 52 week lows, but tensions not far from the surface real concerns that the Federal Reserve may raise 
 
 interest rates not only in May, but perhaps even in June as well, if inflation doesn't show noticeable improvement.
 
Weak bank lending and the still unresolved debt ceiling debate here in the United States could change the dynamic for the Federal Reserve very 
 
 quickly. The latest Fed's Beige Book out yesterday showed tighter credit conditions so tighter lending conditions across many parts of the United 
 
 States, and also alarm growing in Washington with tax revenues coming in weaker than expected so far.
 
This means that the U.S. could run out of emergency spending options before mid-June and still no political resolution to raise the debt ceiling incite 
 
 a critical countdown that no one is looking forward to and speaking of countdowns, we're now around 25 minutes away from the launch of the SpaceX 
 
 starship.
 
This monster rocket is nearly 400 feet tall and has 33 engines. Today's launch attempt comes after years of testing and it's the first step in Elon 
 
 Musk's vision of sending humans to the Moon and Mars.
 
And joining us now is Former NASA Astronaut Leroy Chiao. He's also a Former Commander of the International Space Station and sits on the SpaceX Safety 
 
 Advisory Panel. Leroy, fantastic to have you on the show! I'm afraid to get too excited after how close we got on Monday's attempt. How confident are 
 
 you that this one actually makes it?
 
LEROY CHIAO, FORMER NASA ASTRONAUT: Well, everything's looking very good right now on Mondays attempt by this point in the countdown. They had 
 
 detected an issue with one of the valves. They were trying to get it to work right and it was seemed to be stuck in the wrong position.
 
And so they went all the way to declare it at about this point in the countdown, they were going to do a wet rehearsal. And so they did go to 
 
 countdown to near T zero before backing out. And so today it's looking great. Looks like no problems so far. So fingers crossed, we're going to 
 
 see a launch day very exciting.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's super exciting. And just to use some of the terminology and explain that when we talk about a wet dress rehearsal. I 
 
 believe this is when the team continues to load the rocket with fuel anyway. So they go through the whole process, continue with the countdown 
 
 right until the last minute and then simply don't launch just to test other process to make sure processes to make sure they're ready.
 
CHIAO: That's right. And so that's exactly right. So they go ahead and load all the propellant, they count all the way nearly down to T zero, and then 
 
 they do go into their abort procedures. So it was a good exercise for the team, obviously had never been done before for this vehicle. And so they 
 
 had a little bit of experience under their belts, and they're looking competent for today.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, we're gonna keep everything crossed. Assuming this does take off; just talk us through what we're likely to see in the first sort 
 
 of 2, 3, 4 and then 10 minutes?
 
CHIAO: Sure. This is going to be the launch of the biggest booster ever.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
Nearly 17 billion pounds of thrust that's over twice as powerful as the Saturn moon rockets. It's much more powerful than the Space Launch System, 
 
 Artemis I launch that we saw just about a little over a month ago. And so it's going to be big, big fireball lots of noise.
 
We're going to see that bird for about three minutes. And then at that point, the starships going to separate away from the booster, the booster 
 
 will fall away into the ocean, and the starship will continue flying into space, it'll light its own six engines, six raptor engines, and it'll 
 
 continue to burn somewhere around another five or six minutes, and then get itself into space.
 
Once it gets almost all the way around the world per plan of this test flight, it's going to go ahead and re-enter the atmosphere in splashdown 
 
 not too far off the off of Hawaii.
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, it is so exciting. I mean, we're showing videos of what we're anticipating now and that whole thing likely to take around an hour 
 
 and a half. Assuming nothing, nothing goes wrong or nothing's delayed.
 
Talk about the separation process as well, because this is the most exciting part for me actually, when the rocket itself and this is a 
 
 gigantic rocket. I mean, we're talking, I think a 33 engine cluster separates from the starship itself. And then as you said, the six engines 
 
 on the starship itself, then propel it close to orbit, just talk me through that separation process, because this is where I really get excited.
 
CHIAO: Sure, what you'll see are the -- yes, like you said, the 33 clusters that's also never been attempted before. That's the largest clustering of 
 
 engines ever. And so what you'll see is that as we approach the separation point, the thrust will tail off.
 
You'll see the engines kind of throttle down as they get ready to shut down and then they'll shut down and then the separation will occur. And the six 
 
 engines will ignite on the upper stage or rather the starship in this case, and you'll see it continue to burn and fly away and then the booster will 
 
 just simply fall away.
 
It will do a couple of burns of some thrusters to get it into the right attitude, but then it's going to splashdown. In the future you'll see the 
 
 booster flip around and come back and land or land on a drone ship. Just like Falcon IX -- notice SpaceX's Falcon IX and so that eventually this 
 
 will be a fully reusable system both the Falcon super heavy booster as well as the starship vehicle.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean, seeing those boosters come down and -- carefully sort of reminds me of sci-fi movies. It's not almost like it's not quite 
 
 real, even though we're seeing it. Right, I believe we are yes, T-20.
 
Leroy, you're going to come back and talk us through fingers crossed when we actually see this launch. But for now I'm going to let you go and we'll 
 
 speak to you soon Leroy Chiao for now. Thank you so much for that sharing, sharing my enthusiasm very exciting.
 
Now, from space to the road another Musk business Tesla dented by price cuts shares down around 9 percent in premarket trade after first quarter 
 
 profits fell more than 20 percent from a year ago Musk defending his strategy of pursuing growth over profit and predicting a bright future for 
 
 self-driving technology.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELON MUSK, TESLA CEO: We're taking the view that pushing for higher volumes and a larger fleet is the right choice here versus a lower volume and 
 
 higher margin. However we expect our vehicles over time we'll be able to generate significant profit through autonomy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, it is all about market share. Dan Ives is the Managing Director at Wedbush Securities is back with us. Dan, we promised up back in 
 
 you are. What do you make of this because it was always going to be a battle of boosting volumes at the cost of profits?
 
DAN IVES, MANAGING DIRECTOR, SENIOR EQUITY ANALYST, WEDBUSH SECURITIES: Yes Julia, I mean, the margins ultimately, it's not what the street one to see. 
 
 I mean, 20 percent was sure the threshold came in below that. Near term pain for long term gain that's the strategy that Musk and Tesla are going 
 
 after. But the initial reaction, it's not the news, ultimately, that the street wants to see in terms what we're seeing on the margin side.
 
CHATTERLEY: I mean, when we're talking about margins, just to sort of put it into some degree of English, we're talking about profitability. And we 
 
 saw margins come from just down from just over 19 percent to around 11 percent.
 
I mean, if I compare that with General Motors, they've got an operating margin of 6.6 percent. This was in 2022. Ford was 4 percent. What's the big 
 
 deal? Why do we hold Tesla to such a higher standard than some of the traditional car makers? Explain for those that might be looking at this and 
 
 going, what's the big deal?
 
IVES: Sure, it's a great point. Look, Tesla is the gold standard. So when you compare any other automaker to them in terms of margins, scale, what we 
 
 see an electric vehicle, they are held to a higher standard and that margin, it does give them the opportunity to really put an iron fence 
 
 around their install base.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
And that's what they're doing in this game of thrones that's happening in this EV arms race. But margins that's the tug of war because it's at the 
 
 expense all three margin streets fine with that. But profitability then gets to a point where you worry about are they just going to continue to 
 
 cut prices? They've already cut prices six times so far in the last three months.
 
CHATTERLEY: Do you expect them to cut prices further down? I guess that's the key question, because now we're -- we've seen this dramatic fall in in 
 
 margins, I think the sort of big question out, then we've seen many analysts come out and already lower their price targets that there's no 
 
 real floor.
 
IVES: Yes, I think probably one or two more price cuts, we could see over the next month, especially in China. They rip the band aid off, and then I 
 
 think that probably sort of lays the ground to where this is going to go. I mean, we're still very bullish on the Tesla story.
 
You know, I think there's a, you know $215 is our price target. But this was what ultimately, you know, they're playing poker in terms of what's 
 
 happening from a price cut perspective. And overall, I mean, Musk continues to play chess or other plays checkers, and that's what the bulls are 
 
 betting on.
 
CHATTERLEY: That's very Musk, like. OK, so I have two questions on this. Advertising would be a novel idea. They don't spend any money on 
 
 advertising. You could also boost sales, surely by advertising better versus cutting prices? Is that an option for them Dan?
 
IVES: OK. I think at first, obviously, it's really been Musk and homegrown in terms advertise. I think eventually they are going to have to do that. 
 
 When you have what's happened the 313 Erica, with GM and Ford, going to a doubling down on EVs, the European players.
 
I think eventually they are going to have to advertise because what's happening in this competition. And I think that's going to some of the 
 
 strategies that Tesla is looking at going forward.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. We shall see. I mean your point about autonomy and having loads of cars on the road. And when you can switch the autonomous function 
 
 firmly on then that gives them a huge share and opportunity, but it's like a long time coming data. Dan Ives, great to have you with you us, thank 
 
 you!
 
IVES: Thanks for having me.
 
CHATTERLEY: Managing Director there at Wedbush Securities. All right, now on to another tech giant Meta, formerly known as Facebook, where a major 
 
 new round of layoffs is underway, and this time focusing on tech teams.
 
Mark Zuckerberg is labeled 2023 Meta's year of efficiency "With the ongoing layoffs" Meta will have got rid of around 25 percent of its workforce since 
 
 November. Clare Duffy joins us now. Clare, what do we mean by tech teams? And I understand that statistic if you've reduced, unfortunately, your 
 
 workforce by around a quarter, but where does that put us relative to pre pandemic, as all of these tech giants hired a lot of people during that 
 
 period?
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN TECH WRITER: Right Julia. So Meta's staff more than doubled from 2019 to 2022.
 
CHATTERLEY: Right.
 
DUFFY: And Mark Zuckerberg has actually taken responsibility for sort of over hiring during that period thinking that the success that the company 
 
 was having at the time, there was so much demand for its products, there was so much demand for online advertising.
 
And he thought that would continue and in fact, over the last year Meta has struggled with user growth it struggled with, you know, advertisers pulling 
 
 back their ad budgets, and it's really taken a toll on the company at the same time, that it's really been trying to invest billions of dollars in 
 
 this future version of the internet it calls the Metaverse.
 
And so Zuckerberg has taken responsibility for that sort of miscalculation. And this 25 percent cut back is still going to be far ahead of where the 
 
 company was pre pandemic.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, a year of efficiency. We'll see. Clare Duffy, thank you so much for that! All right straight ahead, giving wounded Ukrainians a second 
 
 chance in the middle of war. I speak to Co-Founder of the Medical Center redefining the word superhuman that's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move"! NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg is in Ukraine his first trip to the country since the Russian 
 
 invasion began last year. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called the visit a new chapter in relations with Ukraine. The Secretary General 
 
 said NATO will stand with Ukraine for as long as it takes.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: Mr. President, I'm here today with a simple message. NATO stands with Ukraine. We stood by you after 
 
 Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014. We stand by you today in your heroic fight against the Russian invaders and in the defense of your 
 
 country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: President Zelenskyy said while Ukraine values NATO support with the weapons they've received. He wants to know when Ukraine will be invited 
 
 to be part of the alliance. And one huge task for the people of Ukraine helping those injured in the war rebuilds their lives.
 
The Superhuman Center is a new state of the art Medical Center and it opened its doors over the weekend. Partnered with the Howard Buffett 
 
 Foundation and Richard Branson's Virgin Unite the center will provide prosthetic limbs rehabilitation, post-traumatic stress syndrome treatment 
 
 and eventually reconstructive surgery to wounded soldiers and civilians all for free.
 
Superhumans estimate that over 10,000, Ukrainians will need some kind of procedures and rehabilitation. The center's goal is to treat Ukrainians 
 
 closer to their own homes and transform Ukraine in the founder's words into a country of Superhumans.
 
Joining us now is Andrey Stavnitser. He's the Co-Founder of the Superhuman Center. And he's also the Co-Owner and CEO of Trans Invest Service, the 
 
 largest port in Ukraine. Andrey, fantastic to have you on the show!
 
Talk to me about the opening of the Superhuman Center. I know you were helping people even before this official opening this past week, but just 
 
 talk to me about the role that this will play to change people's lives. I think and as you said, the name says it all to help people rebuild.
 
ANDREY STAVNITSER, CO-FOUNDER, SUPERHUMANS CENTER: Thank you, Julia. Well yes, rebuilding infrastructure, roads and bridges is important. But without 
 
 people it's not going to mean anything. So we need to start rebuilding Ukrainians. And Ukrainians build rebuild their country.
 
So this is what Superhumans are doing. Basically, we unfortunately, we estimate more than 10,000 people right now who are in need of prosthetics 
 
 in the Ukraine. Official numbers are of course classified, but this is our estimate. And we are working towards getting them the most.
 
The most newest the top notch prosthetics, bionic arms and bionic legs there are on the market. We're working with the Germany -- with Germany 
 
 with UK and U.S. We're using a lot of different doctors to bring the expertise into the country, which is really the most important because 
 
 again, you can bring technology but without the expertise it's going to be just a lot of scrap.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean, this is a crucial part of this. This is about providing to your point top class medical support and rehabilitation 
 
 services. I know this is part of a process that will take place over a number of months too.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
But you're ultimately hoping to provide sleeping quarters for international doctors to come and play a role too in providing the support to people.
 
STAVNITSER: Actually, right now I'm in Tokyo, it's 10:10 in the evening here, and the reason for my trip to Asia is basically looking for the best 
 
 doctors who can help us build expertise in reconstruction surgeries in Ukraine.
 
So we are bringing those doctors from all over the world to Ukraine, we take care of their logistics, housing and security. And we train with their 
 
 help we train Ukrainian doctors. And we transfer experience. And we make sure that within next few months, Ukrainian doctors will be able to perform 
 
 difficult reconstruction surgeries in the Ukraine, because there are too many people who need this kind of help.
 
We're talking about, again, as I said, 10,000, more with prosthetics tens of thousands of people who need help with reconstruction. Unfortunately, 
 
 the state is too busy with the war. So they don't pay attention to aesthetics and to these kinds of things. Their goal is to stabilize and to 
 
 keep the patient alive.
 
And our goal is to take this people, the bravest people on earth and reintegrate them back into their society, to make sure they're back at work 
 
 doing whatever they were doing before. If, for example, it was an ice skating instructor we make to make sure that the prosthetic he gets he or 
 
 she gets is going to be an ice skating prosthetic so we can go back to training kids and same thing with their faces, their limbs and their 
 
 bodies.
 
They have to be reintegrated into society and to have a decent a nice view and they have to be stronger with their new bionic arms and bionic legs. 
 
 They have to be better than human. And we call them Superhuman.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, Superhuman. We're seeing some of your Superhumans actually on the screen now. And the level of technology that we're seeing in some of 
 
 these prosthetic limbs is incredible too.
 
And to your point that costs and I'm sure with the medical system in Ukraine at this moment they have enough to deal with the emergency measures 
 
 and the people that they would see ordinarily there. What kind of services would have been provided without superhuman center?
 
STAVNITSER: Well, without Superhumans, they would just stabilize the patient. And that's it. And for these kinds of patients, the sooner you get 
 
 them to prosthetics or their surgery, the sooner they can reintegrate, because there is a crucial amount of time after which it's almost 
 
 impossible to reintegrate.
 
And we try to make it really, really fast. And but we're getting our first patients and we know by watching them operate their bionic arms or bionic 
 
 legs, you see their fight -- their faces, their smiling faces, and it gives you so much reward, it gives you so much motivation to continue. It's 
 
 unbelievable.
 
So I'm super happy we're doing this. You can also join by donating @superhumans.com; you can basically buy an arm or by leg for a Ukrainian 
 
 and Ukraine will definitely prevail.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, let's talk about the money. Because Andrey, I know you were given philanthropic support to for the construction for the 
 
 development of this. But there are, as I've mentioned, bigger stages of how you want to grow this and the support that you want to provide. How much 
 
 more money do you need even just based on the current plans? And how can people help? You've mentioned the website as well just talk us through what 
 
 more you need.
 
STAVNITSER: So basically, Julia, what we're doing is we're asking our large donors like Howard Buffett and Richard Branson, for CapEx donations, so 
 
 interior works in the building or construction works, et cetera. And then we fundraise for the prosthetics themselves so that any person can 
 
 basically go online and superhumans.com and buy an arm for somebody, and this person will get their treatment in the city next to them.
 
So what we're doing right now is after opening Lviv, which is in the west of Ukraine, very close to Poland, we're now starting to develop regional 
 
 clinics that are much, much closer to the frontline. That would be Kharkiv that could be Mykolaiv that will be Poltava, Dnipro and Kyiv also.
 
So the people who are who need help will be able to go to Superhumans in Kharkiv get their 3D scan, 3D laser scan of their limp order their most 
 
 modern, bionic leg for example, from Lviv. It will arrive to Kharkiv it will, our specialist will fit the prosthetics onto the patient and start 
 
 the rehabilitation process. So this is basically what we fundraise for. And I'm very excited to open those new clinics within the next two years.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's incredible. I mean, as you said, and we can give a sense of the numbers but I believe you're hoping to serve around 3000 
 
 people a year with the services that that you can provide.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
And just to be clear, this is not just about troops and members of military personnel that have perhaps lost limbs or need facial reconstruction 
 
 surgery, whatever it is, it's also about civilians. It's about children and families too that also need this kind of help and when they are going 
 
 through rehabilitation need to be near their families, to your point about having more clinics across the country.
 
STAVNITSER: Absolutely. So we currently have a number of civilian patients, including kids, for example, one of the kids that we have is from Kherson 
 
 has been working. He's 14 years old. So he's been working his girlfriend home, when they got artillery shots, and he lost his arm.
 
And what he's thankful to be alive is that he's very motivated is high spirit, he works a lot to have prosthetics working. And by looking and 
 
 working with these people, the amount of motivation that we get is just unbeatable.
 
Also, it's important to mention that we expect much more people who need prosthetics and reconstruction, because of the current phase of the war 
 
 also promptly with this counter offensive going to happen. We're getting ready for that as well.
 
CHATTERLEY: Andrey, it's heartbreaking to even have to discuss this, but thank you for all the work that you're doing and the support you're 
 
 providing. And we appreciate you and your team. Thank you. The Co-Founder there--
 
STAVNITSER: Thank you for your continued support.
 
CHATTERLEY: Andrey, thank you. Yes. OK, let's cross back now to the SpaceX launch pad in Boca Chica, Texas. We've just heard from SpaceX that the 
 
 weather and the winds are looking good. The teams are not working on any significant issues. They've been loading fuel into the tanks, and now 
 
 pressurizing those.
 
And everything so far indicates an on time launch in less than two minutes, starship, just to remind you is the biggest and most powerful rocket ever 
 
 built with 33 engines attached to what's called a super heavy booster. It's been designed to carry passengers to the Moon and Mars and potentially 
 
 beyond.
 
And just to be clear, we didn't discuss this earlier and it's very important to there are no crew onboard today's flight. Back with me is 
 
 Former NASA Astronaut Leroy Chiao. Leroy, we made it. What just over a minute till the launch this is very exciting. We're so close now. This has 
 
 to happen, surely.
 
CHIAO: Yes, I hope so. It's looking -- yes, like you say under a minute, no issues being worked. So the weather's looking good, winds are good. So 
 
 hopefully in about 40 seconds or so we're going to see a launch.
 
CHATTERLEY: What are we going to see over the next minute, just more and more sort of as the engines build, because we're seeing live pictures now 
 
 we can clearly see smoke building? But of course, we saw that last time steam.
 
CHIAO: Right, what you're seeing is the venting of liquid oxygen out of you know -- you're kind of continuously replenishing the liquid oxygen as a 
 
 boils off. And that will continue right down to -- close to T zero. And at that point, you'll see the rocket engines lights, big you know, of course, 
 
 we'll see the light before you hear the sound because it takes a few seconds for that to get to the microphones. And then it's, you know, it's 
 
 going to be a big show.
 
CHATTERLEY: I know. I'm watching the clock. And of course what we're seeing there. Now we're now down to 28 seconds. This is so exciting. Does this 
 
 ever get old? I mean, you have so much experience. You're a NASA Astronaut, or retired NASA Astronaut. Does it ever get tired watching these moments?
 
CHIAO: Oh, no, I never get old. Never, ever and especially watching a new vehicle like this, as you mentioned, the biggest by far ever attempted.
 
CHATTERLEY: I know. I mean, just remind us again about the scale of this because it is the most powerful rocket ever built. We are talking about 
 
 something in terms of even SpaceX's history and efforts to get to this stage something entirely unique.
 
CHIAO: That's right. That's right. Something like this has never been attempted before. 33 clustered engines in the first stage, the most 
 
 powerful rocket ever attempted.
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, I think we just lost Leroy there. And I'm hearing that they've just called a hold Leroy. The countdown has been held for final 
 
 launch checkouts. I'm just seeing on the screen there from SpaceX. How unusual when we're sort of seconds away from a launch to do final launch 
 
 checks. I'm getting nervous.
 
CHIAO: Right and this has happened before of course with other rockets. You know, there's certain things that have to happen very close to launch 
 
 valves have to close other valves have to open you know, umbilical's things like that are ready to detach.
 
And so if there's a problem with any of those things, there could be a hold while they check out an issue. So hopefully this is minor and we'll be able 
 
 to resume and go ahead and launch today but too early to tell now what's going on.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: So just in terms of the running to the launch, if we're talking about the sort of final hour, as the countdown then begins. What's the 
 
 weighting in terms of those final checks literally in the final moments versus even an hour out from launch?
 
CHIAO: Yes, so you know, if there were a crew on board, for example, on a space shuttle or -- something like that, we actually strap into the vehicle 
 
 about 2.5 hours before launch. So that we can be in there ready to go. SpaceX is a little bit different on the Falcon IX; actually, the crew gets 
 
 in.
 
Well, about the same amount of time, maybe just a little bit different. But there are a lot of checks happening, things going on, you know, and so 
 
 you're going through the countdown, most of it is behind the scenes for the crew, it's actually in the control center, the Launch Control Center that 
 
 everything's happening, and they're monitoring everything.
 
And like I said, even seconds before, of the all the shuttle launches, we had you know, we had several scrubbed in the seconds before because we had 
 
 an issue like that something a valve wouldn't open or close or, you know, something else was just not quite right.
 
And so there was a cold on the count just seconds before lunch. And unfortunately, this looks like one of those cases, but let's see if they 
 
 can resolve it and actually fly this morning.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean, you're on the SpaceX Safety Advisory Panel as well, Leroy, I mean, they don't take any chances. I think that's the 
 
 message. So if there is any concern about anything, I'm sure you stop. And this is actually normal; you tend to have numerous attempts in order to 
 
 launch one of these things. And I think actually, Elon Musk has been very clear about this, almost a low probability of this happening first time.
 
CHIAO: That's right, and especially a new vehicle, you know, you're going to encounter issues, and probably not launched the first time, as we saw on 
 
 Monday, and maybe not even the second time. So let's see how things go. Hopefully, fingers crossed is something that they can resolve quickly on 
 
 the pad, but if not, I'm sure they'll set another launch date and this will be one more wet dress rehearsal under the belts of the people working on 
 
 the mission.
 
CHATTERLEY: So I'm hearing that they had an issue with booster tank pressurization, but they may have fixed that. Leroy, can you put that into 
 
 non space week for us, please?
 
CHIAO: Sure, so, what has to happen of course, the fuel tanks, the propellant tanks need to be pressurized so that they can push the field 
 
 towards the pumps that feed the engines right and you got these 33 thirsty engines in this case and so you want to make sure that your tanks are at 
 
 the right pressure and if there was a problem at the last moments there and pressurize the tanks again.
 
It could be a stuck valve it could be something that didn't open all the way and so if they're working it that means there's a possibility, we'll 
 
 still see a launch this morning.
 
CHATTERLEY: Do we guys you're going to have to tell me live do we even see a countdown clock again? Are we still haven't? Nope. So we've not recovered 
 
 a countdown clock but yes, we'll bring you more information as we get it. You know, I was looking just back in history, recent history of launches 
 
 and the NASA Space Launch System rocket that we will finally launch.
 
Oh, I'm going to stop I was just going to go through the number of wet dress rehearsals that were required. We do have a countdown clock back and 
 
 you can hear the cheering people as they realized that it does look like this is now we're going to go ahead. Leroy, we are now eight, seven, and 
 
 six.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: --seconds under the test drive of the -- vehicle, Tara Linda picks over to Coulson reports first stage engines model what a cycle 
 
 the -- cameras are flying in twice the thrust of the same flight --for additional signals. Throttle down and run them back up going through the 
 
 period of maximum aerodynamic pressure.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
And also velocity increases the density in the atmosphere is decreasing lessening stress on the vehicle to pull up next to now. Continuing to watch 
 
 the first stage of who's going downrange. 100 seconds into flight. Our next major activity is going to be set down the first stage -- station now 
 
 acquiring the vehicle.
 
It was set down we will get separation of Starship and super heavy and admission of the Starship engines. Like Starship separates light up six 
 
 engines in a staggered sequence. If all goes well those six engines will burn for almost 6.5 minutes on board view from special.
 
The views of the Raptor engines on the second stage as we prepare for stage separation now after stage separation the first stage will flip and begin 
 
 to boost back maneuver for landing in the Gulf. Continuing to fly 2 minutes 40 seconds let's get ready for main engine cut off beginning the -- stage 
 
 separation.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: As of right now we are awaiting stage separation for Starships should separate from the super heavy booster.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, Kate, right now it looks like we saw the start of the flip. But obviously we're seeing from the ground cameras, the entire 
 
 Starships that continue to rotate, we should have had separation by now. Obviously this is does not appear to be a nominal situation.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, it does appear to be spinning but I do want to remind everyone that everything after clearing the tower was icing on the 
 
 cake. And there as you saw as we promise an exciting end to the Starship, inaugural integrated test, right.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Everyone here is absolutely pumped to clear the path and make it this far into the transplant explores integrated light of the 
 
 baster and the Starship vehicle.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Live view there of our control center at Starbase which we refer to as our command. As we said before, obviously we wanted to 
 
 make it all the way through. But to get this far honestly, is amazing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you're just joining us, Starship just experienced what we call a rapid unscheduled --.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, we're going to leave Star Command, they're in a serious face, I think on Elon Musk, if you saw that at the bottom right hand side 
 
 of your screen. Leroy, it looks to be that we didn't get the separation that we were expecting. The good news here is that we didn't see any kind 
 
 of explosion on the launch pad.
 
And it actually launched which they were saying is a huge success. And of course Elon Musk had warned about that, but then just explained to us what 
 
 we think happened because we seem to see it spinning and then of course the explosion?
 
CHIAO: Right, so what we didn't see was a stage separation.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes.
 
CHIAO: You should have had at that point, explosive bolts should have fired to separate the Starship from the booster and then the Starship would have 
 
 ignited its own engines. That didn't happen and so separation systems have plagued spacecraft and launch systems for since the beginning.
 
You know, we've had a lot of cases like this where separation didn't occur or where there's difficulty with separation. And so it's one of those 
 
 things that these transition points something can go wrong.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
It might have been you know some kind of a glitch where the signal wasn't sent to fire the explosive bolts that could have been something like a 
 
 cable had been loose and became disconnected. So we just don't know what caused the problem at this point. But as we clearly saw, the vehicle did 
 
 not separate.
 
And so that changed all the dynamics and that's why you saw the end over and spinning is because the booster was supposed to kind of back itself 
 
 away, if you will, and then do a semi controlled splashdown with the added weight of the Starship vehicle, the dynamics change, and that didn't 
 
 happen.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it just ended up spinning like a Catherine Wheel, which the physics of that makes sense. Leroy, do you think anything of this will 
 
 be salvaged? Or is the data the most important part because you know, as we were saying earlier, that the hope eventually, of course, is that we can 
 
 keep the rocket which is allowing us to collapse the cost of space travel in general, there was obviously the Starship there.
 
CHIAO: Sure.
 
CHATTERLEY: That we don't know what sort of state that's going to be in post explosion either?
 
CHIAO: Right, and so I'm sure that the SpaceX team will be trying to salvage as many pieces as they can to get more clues on what happened, what 
 
 went wrong and what they can try to fix or change to try to prevent that from happening on the next flight test.
 
But the fact that it did clear the tower that was one of Elon Musk's and SpaceX's big concerns, is that it clears the tower and get away and not 
 
 explode on the pad and severely damage or destroy the launch pad.
 
So the launch pad is in good shape. It's ready to be kind of cleaned up and reused again. So hopefully, we'll see a second flight test and get even 
 
 further down the field, if you will, on the next one.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean, he said didn't Elon Musk on Twitter spaces that the big danger was an explosion of the rocket on the launch pad it melt the 
 
 infrastructure, and then that could take months to repair before they can do another launch in Travis.
 
I guess we have to reiterate what we hope this Starship and the super heavy rocket is going to ultimately be used for moon landing in 2025. He's talked 
 
 about perhaps a Mars landing not too distant future too. We have to get this wrong in order to get this right, because we learn from it.
 
CHIAO: Absolutely right. This system is being designed to be fully reusable. So at maturity, and when it's operational, the Falcon super heavy 
 
 will return too, either the launch site or a drone ship just like the Falcon 9 first stage does. And Starship, of course will re-enter the 
 
 Earth's atmosphere, come back down and also land softly in order to be reused.
 
So if you have a fully reusable system, you've dramatically lowered the cost of launching things into space. And so Starship is revolutionary in so 
 
 many ways, and very exciting to watch the development. And today's this morning's flight test.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I'll go back to the data that I was going to use before we got that launch, which was the NASA Space Launch System rocket. It 
 
 underwent four attempts to complete a wet dress rehearsal and two launch attempts before it finally took off in November 2022.
 
And I vividly remember that that we had so many sort of aborted missions and attempts before it actually went off. But, Leroy, as should reiterate 
 
 for our viewers as well, there was no one aboard that. So this was just a test flight. Don't panic for anybody that perhaps is just tuning in and 
 
 just saw that.
 
What do you think the atmosphere is like, at Star Command because as I mentioned, we saw Elon Musk's face he sort of, you know, people were 
 
 cheering crowds were clearly very excited and happy? But, you know, there's sort of a bittersweet moment here too, in that they'll clearly 
 
 complications.
 
CHIAO: Sure, of course, people will have a little bit of disappointment that the separation didn't occur and Starship didn't make it into space on 
 
 this flight. But of course, jubilation that the first stage was able to get the stack away, and, you know, at least a partial success on this flight 
 
 test.
 
And so, you know, I think, -- as you said, it's a bit bittersweet. There's celebration that they got this far. But of course, there has to be a little 
 
 bit of disappointment that they didn't get even farther, but I'm sure that'll motivate the team to work even harder for the next flight test to 
 
 hopefully get it all the way done.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, we'll see. What's your bet, how long before we see another one?
 
CHIAO: I think it'll be pretty short order I mean Elon Musk and SpaceX are very serious about this they've made it very clear that Falcon super heavy 
 
 and Starship. This vehicle is the future of the company. So I wouldn't be at all surprised to see another vehicle being prepped immediately.
 
And in fact, I'm sure it's already has been in work. And so you know, it's a matter of getting the regulatory license to launch again, get the get the 
 
 Launchpad cleaned up and fix the things that need fixing, and finding out the root cause of today's you know failure to complete the test and then 
 
 implementing any changes.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
So it could be as quick as several months, you know, we will just have to wait to see what the announcement is and how quickly they can determine 
 
 what needs to be changed.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, because the work is clearly going to start immediately. SpaceX have just tweeted, of course, it's a tweet, and as if the flight 
 
 test was not exciting enough, Starship experienced a rapid unscheduled disassembly before stage separation. Leroy, back to you anyway, you can put 
 
 that into a non-space speak for us, please.
 
CHIAO: Yes, that's an interesting, I mean, SpaceX certainly not the first company to use that -- that's used in the industry, to you know, of course, 
 
 it means explosion. But I don't know why we --.
 
CHATTERLEY: We saw that.
 
CHIAO: Yes, we did see that. Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: Just in case you missed it. To your point, we should wait for further information, and then fingers crossed, it's not too much of a 
 
 difficult fix. And they'll be launching again, is the date. Leroy comes back and help us please with your book of translations for us. Great to 
 
 chat to you, sir thank you. Leroy Chiao there!
 
CHIAO: --thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Likewise, thank you. We're back after this. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move", shock and grief among K-pop fans on hearing the news that Moon Bin from the boyband ASTRO has died at the 
 
 age of 25. He was found at his home in Seoul. Paula Hancocks joins us now with more. Paula, what more do we know?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Julia, we've been hearing from police. That's about Bin passed 8, last night Wednesday evening, his 
 
 manager called the police says he'd found him unresponsive at his home in Seoul. The police telling us they believe that he took his own life, saying 
 
 there was no foul play suspected.
 
Now it has come as a shock to many fans to clearly the family as well and to the music label and music label Fantagio saying that they are deeply 
 
 mourning they are heartbroken and in deep shock as well. Now he had been well known here in Korea and also elsewhere in the world.
 
He'd been within ASTRO this this well-known group since 2016. He had been in the entertainment industry for about 14 years. He started as a child 
 
 actor, so he really grew up in the limelight. He comes from a family of K- pop as well his sister, Moon Sua is also part of a group a girl band called Billlie and surprisingly that group has said that they are canceling all 
 
 schedules in the near future now because of this.
 
[09: 50:00]
 
So there have been tributes pouring in all day for Moon Bin. They have been online we've seen for example the hash-tag Moon Bin is trending on Twitter. 
 
 There have been well over 2.5 million tributes to him on this hash-tag.
 
Many talking about their grief and their shock and to add to that as well, just 11 days before this happened, Moon Bin had actually said on a live 
 
 stream that he had been struggling we have a quote, he said, "It's been quite hard. I tried not to show it and it is the job I chose. So I need to 
 
 bear with it".
 
So very upsetting words, there seeing that he was struggling in the days before this has happened the police and the agency asking for privacy for 
 
 the family at this point, so they can deal with their grief but it is yet another member of the Korean entertainment industry that has it is believed 
 
 by police taken their own lives.
 
There have been others in the past standard is raising questions once again about the pressures that some of these starting very young stars have to 
 
 deal with in the K-pop industry in the Korean entertainment industry, and also raising questions on how mental health issues are dealt with here in 
 
 South Korea? Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, Paula, it's exactly what I was going to ask you, it is going to raise questions about the pressures that these young people are 
 
 put on, not only I think in the music industry, but with the celebrity status, that they share.
 
It sorts of heartbreaking to hear that he'd written on social media that it was a job that he chose, and in some way he sorts of has to deal with it. 
 
 Is that being discussed once again, and perhaps some kind of measures to protect these children?
 
HANCOCKS: It is being discussed once again, that the pressures that they are under and the fact that certainly for many of these K-pop agencies that 
 
 they sort of have a training ground where you apply from a very young age to be considered to be part of this training, and then potentially you will 
 
 be able to be debuted later in life.
 
But it is a huge amount of people that go into for this. It's a tiny fraction that is actually accepted and an even smaller fraction that make a 
 
 name for themselves. So it is highly competitive. It is a very difficult and time consuming industry to be in the days is very long.
 
They are grueling it has been well documented. So once again, this will be a question as to whether it's too much and also how mental health is dealt 
 
 with whether it's open enough in this country.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, where you can go for help, if you feel able to? Paula Hancocks, thank you so much for that. OK, let's move on. Exquisite jewels, 
 
 luxury handbags, Chippendale side chairs and a chest of drawers.
 
The list of magnificent works of art up for auction at Sotheby's this week goes on and on. And one very special family has made it all possible. It 
 
 sounds like a job for me. Richard Quest got it in areas to explain.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT (voice over): It is an exquisite collection of American Art and it was built and fueled by the 
 
 oil industry. That's where the Wolf family made their money. They took half a century to put all this together. There are more than 1000 pieces of art. 
 
 Their son Mathew walked me through what is truly the collection of a lifetime and he was very honest about why it was now being sold and broken 
 
 up.
 
MATHEW WOLF, SON OF ERVING AND JOYCE WOLF: Lot of it is being sold to pay estate taxes of my mother, it was owned by my father so upon my father's 
 
 death it went to my mother's estate and my mother passed away and now there is various estate taxes to pay. And so that's a reason why we're selling 
 
 this.
 
QUEST (voice over): Every collection starts with the first piece.
 
WOLF: In 1970, when they moved to New York City, they just happen to purchase an apartment on Fifth Avenue across from Sotheby's Park Burnett, 
 
 this is their first purchase. They paid $2,400 for including the 10 percent buyer's premium.
 
QUEST (on camera): 1970?
 
WOLF: In 1970.
 
QUEST (on camera): Not bad investment to the estimate is $300,000.
 
WOLF: And I guarantee you my mother was behind the purchase. And when my father found out how much you paid for it, he would have said, how much did 
 
 you pay for that piece? Are you crazy? But now you see my mother as often was right.
 
QUEST (voice over): As we walked around all the porcelain for sale, the phrase bull in a China shop came to mind. Imagine living amongst all of 
 
 this.
 
[09: 55:00]
 
WOLF: A lot of this Chinese export porcelain was in my family's dining room, in cabinets, but also on tables. And for some reason it survived and 
 
 there really wasn't a fear growing up a breaking anything and somehow we made it.
 
QUEST (voice over): In our own smaller perhaps ways. We all aspire to be a collector. And Matthew has sound advice.
 
WOLF: This is a window for the Coonley Playhouse done by Frank Lloyd Wright in 1912. It's important to collect something that is globally appreciated 
 
 versus locally appreciated. And whatever you do by the very best.
 
QUEST (voice over): The breakup of this collection may be the end of one dynasty. That Mathew sure it's the start of another.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: You know where I'm off today. That's it for the show. "Connect the World" is up next, I'll see you on -- later.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END