Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Libya Terrible Storm Flooded Parts of the Country; Relief Efforts in Morocco. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired September 13, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up lovely people. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. And it`s your CNN 10. Especially on a #YourWordWednesday. Follow me 
 
 @coywire on Insta, Snapchat, and TikTok. Put your unique vocabulary word in the comment section of my most recent post. And we`ll choose one fun one to 
 
 work into tomorrow. Show let`s go. 
 
Now we do have to begin with some tough news out of Libya where around 5,300 people at least had died at the time of this recording, 10,000 more 
 
 believed to still be missing. And it`s the result of a terrible storm. The storm`s name is Daniel, and it dumped so much rain on Libya`s Northeast 
 
 that two dams collapse, sending water flowing into already inundated areas. And in some cases, washing whole neighborhoods away.
 
The rain is a result of a very strong, low-pressure system that brought catastrophic flooding to Greece last week and moved into the Mediterranean 
 
 before developing into a tropical like cyclone known as a Medicane, which is a combination of the words Mediterranean and hurricane. 
 
In addition, the collapse of two dams under the pressure of the flooding water sent even more water rushing toward these towns, creating more 
 
 catastrophic damage. Strong currents, also carrying debris and even vehicles adding to the damage. It looks like this storm is one of the 
 
 deadliest on record in north Africa. 
 
In the wake of the tragedy, several countries have offered aid to Libya and rescue teams are scrambling to find survivors and assess the damage.
 
In the nation of Morocco, a 6.8 magnitude earthquake struck late Friday night. More than 2,900 people had died at the time of this recording and 
 
 rescuers continued to race against the clock to search through rubble for survivors. The quake is the strongest to hit Morocco`s center in more than 
 
 a century. The epicenter of the quake was in close proximity to many tourist areas and the economic center of Marrakesh. 
 
Complicating, the relief efforts is the nearby terrain of the Atlas Mountains, home to many isolated villages that have been devastated by this 
 
 quake.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER:  It certainly has been a somewhat delayed effort where today in the village of Moulay Brahim. And you can see behind me just 
 
 how remote some of these villages are. 
 
We are high up in the Atlas Mountains, and that has proven to be a real struggle for rescue teams. Many of these villages, many of the hardest hit 
 
 areas across Morocco are in these remote high up mountainous areas. And that has proven to be a real challenge for rescue teams. 
 
Now, just yesterday, we were in another village further up, further south, and this is a village which has proven hugely difficult to reach. We spoke 
 
 to people there who have been impacted by the earthquake. They told us that the international rescue teams had only just made it to the village 
 
 yesterday, that they had been spending days digging through the rubble of their collapsed homes with their bare hands. 
 
And they have, uh, only just begun to receive that humanitarian aid, have only just begun to see doctors and medical personnel on the ground there. 
 
 And of course it has been difficult to reach some of these areas. The roads have been blocked in some places because of the debris, because of damage 
 
 to the roads. But of course there is still a real sense of frustration among these residents in these remote villages, around that delayed 
 
 response. 
 
Many people on our living in temporary shelters, including in this village, you can see at the homes damage behind me, just further down the mountain, 
 
 many families living tent shelters now.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Let`s travel to Columbia in south America now where CNN Chief Climate Correspondent, Bill Weir has details on an innovative project to 
 
 preserve the cotton-top tamarin, acute monkey that is among the most endangered primates in the world. They`re only found in Northwestern, 
 
 Columbia and their tropical forest habitat is being destroyed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  In one particular corner of one particular country, there lives a creature that exists 
 
 nowhere else in the world. This is Columbia and word is their unique species is adorable and elusive and critically endangered. A combination 
 
 that can frustrate when trying to spot one, but trudging through a forest hot as a sauna, our odds are better than average. Thanks to people who know 
 
 them really well.
 
ROSAMIRA GUILLEN, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR/ CO-FOUNDER, FOUNDATION PROYECTO TITI:  They love the nature of the flowers and they stick their hair, you know, 
 
 their hair like in the flower like that, in their hair -- their facial hair.
 
WEIR:  Rosamira Guillen started her career as a landscape architect. But when she was hired to help build a zoo, she met the animal that would 
 
 change her life and theirs, the cotton-top tamarin, a little monkey with a look right out of Dr. Seus. 
 
(On camera):  I can see why you fell in love with these little guys.
 
GUILLEN:  Oh yeah. You know, how can you -- how can you not?
 
WEIR:  When she learned that the illegal pet trade and slash and burn cattle ranching had driven them to the brink of extinction, her architect 
 
 mind shifted from building zoos to rebuilding forests, which is much more difficult than just dropping seeds and soil.
 
GUILLEN:  It may take a day to cut a hector forest, but to rebuild it, it takes about 20 years. 
 
WEIR (voice-over):  She`s learned that rewilding takes sweat, smarts, and human relations. Because in order to connect the titi`s fragmented habitat, 
 
 she would need land. And the cooperation of ranchers who do not share her love for these monkeys.
 
(On camera):  Is it harder working with nature or human nature? 
 
GUILLEN:  Definitely human nature. oh, I would be happy to just hang out with the monkeys and in the forest.
 
Our goal is to get to a certain point with there`s enough for them to be stable and make it in the long term, right? Um, our fears is that, you 
 
 know, you always fear that you don`t get enough support to keep going. 
 
While we save this beautiful forest for them, we`re saving the forest for many other animals, you know, so all by diversity.
 
WEIR:  And a livable planet for us?
 
GUILLEN:  And a livable planet for us. Exactly, because we get water, we get air, we get lots of resources and that`s -- that`s why we focus so much 
 
 on connecting people with nature, to appreciate it and -- and care for it and want to do something about it. With a little help, we can make it, 
 
 because we`ve got the experience, we`ve done it. And, uh, it works.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Pop quiz, hot shot. Part of the Pacific Ocean, what body of water is located on the Southern curve of Alaska?
 
Bering Sea, Gulf of Alaska, Beaufort Sea or Chukchi Sea?
 
All these waterways surround Alaska, but the Gulf of Alaska is your answer here.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The yellow hat.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This mysterious golden specimen was found during a deep-sea expedition in the Gulf of Alaska.
 
This is some sort of crusting sponge. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Uh, yeah. I don`t know what to make at that.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Scientist aboard NOAA Ship Okeanos Explorer say they discovered it about two miles below surface.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I don`t know what to think about this. It looks like we`re seeing in the chatted dead sponge attachment, which kind of makes 
 
 sense why I didn`t even know where to start. It seems spongy, but now I`m seeing potential egg case, which I could see that as well.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Dubbed the golden orb researchers say they have so far been unable to identify what it is, but confirm it is biological and 
 
 origin.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yeah, let`s give it a little tickle. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Oh, soft. Soft thermal air. OK. Hmm, yeah.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Not sure if it`ll just fall apart. If I try to grab it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It seems like it, it seems pretty delicate.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Scientists have taken it to a lab to learn more about it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  How many of you have ever heard of bioluminescence? Well, check out these waves in Orange County, California, this naturally occurring 
 
 phenomenon occurs when water is turned up, like these waves causing a chemical reaction in light emitting organisms, like algae blooms. There 
 
 aren`t many places in the world where you can see bioluminescence occurring naturally, and it doesn`t exclusively occur on beaches either. But whenever 
 
 you do, it`s quite the enlightening experience. 
 
Shout out to all of you, shine in bright, like my peeves at Oak Glen High School in New Cumberland, West Virginia. This is your moment. We see you. 
 
Now submit those vocab words @coywire for your #YourWordWednesday, your word in tomorrow`s show right here on CNN 10.
 
END