Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: U.S. Secretary of State to Meet with Mexico's President; Migrant Surge at U.S. Southern Border; Trump's Holiday Rant; Israel-Hamas War; Netanyahu Confidant Meets with Senior U.S. Officials; Kanye West Apologizes for Antisemitic Remarks. Aired 4:00-4:30a ET

Aired December 27, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Bianca Nobilo live from London. Max Foster has the day off. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's just an unfair, unethical situation. What's going on here in Eagle Pass? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thousands in Mexico hoping to get into the United States. Law enforcement working overtime trying to keep them out. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The U.S. looks for Israel to move away from its high-intensity war. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Street battles raging across Gaza.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are in a multi-arena war. We are being attacked from seven different sectors. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Donald Trump airing grievances on social media.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is not the typical message you would see from any sort of world leader, but it is a message you would see from Donald Trump who has made an entire political career of being the victim. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo. 
 
NOBILO: It is Wednesday, December 27th, 9 a.m. here in London, 3 a.m. in Mexico City.
 
And in the hours ahead, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Department of Homeland Security Chief Alejandro Mayorkas will be there meeting with Mexico's president and security cabinet to tackle the unprecedented migrant crisis at the U.S.-Mexico border. The surge of migrants is very visible in Eagle Pass, Texas. U.S. border agents are overwhelmed by the sheer volume of people entering the country illegally.
 
And thousands more are making their way to Mexico from Central and South America and beyond, desperate for a chance to enter the United States. The mayor of Eagle Pass, Texas, is demanding the White House act quickly and decisively to stop people from crossing the border illegally. And he wants the federal government to deport people. He says without that, this crisis will only keep growing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROLANDO SALINAS JR. MAYOR OF EAGLE PASS, TEXAS: This is unacceptable. Our city here in Eagle Pass, we've been getting slammed with 2,000 to 3,000 people a day. And it's just an unfair, unethical situation. What's going on here in Eagle Pass, we feel ignored by the federal government. I've called to the government that we need action.
 
There needs to be a consequence to so many people crossing illegally. If somebody breaks the law, there needs to be a consequence. And right now, there are no consequences.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Meanwhile, more than 11,000 migrants are waiting in northern Mexico to cross into the U.S., according to local leaders. They're living in shelters, open-air camps, and abandoned homes. CNN's Rosa Flores has the story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As a migrant caravan forms in southern Mexico with thousands from Central and South America, the scene on the U.S. southern border in Eagle Pass, Texas, has changed. The areas where thousands of migrants were waiting outdoors to be transported for immigration processing last week were emptied out this week. The flow this morning appearing to be down to a trickle.
 
A senior Customs and Border Protection official telling CNN that while the scene in Eagle Pass has improved, the agency is not out of the woods yet. CBP still grappling with elevated numbers of migrant encounters on the U.S. southern border. More than 11,000 migrants are waiting in shelters in northern Mexico, 3,800 in Tijuana, 3,200 in Reynosa, 4,000 in Matamoros. Many hoping to enter legally, but some opting to cross illegally, say community leaders. 
 
U.S. federal authorities reported a seven-day average of more than 9,600 migrant encounters in December. That number was 6,800 at the end of November.
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is scheduled to meet with Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador Wednesday in Mexico City. The Biden administration is expected to put pressure on Mexico to do more to stem the flow of migrants. To deal with the flow, CBP has temporarily suspended operations at several ports of entry in several states to reassign personnel to process migrants.
 
This, as CNN learns from a CBP official, that the surge is in part driven by pseudo-legitimate travel agencies abroad that promise trips to the U.S. but instead connect travelers to smugglers south of the border. That might explain this recent scene in Arizona. 
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
FLORES: I work for CNN, and I'm wondering where you're from, what country you're from? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senegal. 
 
FLORES: Senegal.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senegal. 
 
FLORES: Senegal. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Senegal. 
 
FLORES: Senegal, Senegal, Senegal. Everybody's from Senegal.
 
FLORES (voice-over): Smugglers are dropping off 500 to 1,000 migrants in remote areas of Arizona, the official said, creating a logistical nightmare for Border Patrol agents who have to find ways to transport them for immigration processing. For the volunteers who distribute water to migrants in the desert, it's the children who get them every time. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's heartbreaking when you see the little children.
 
FLORES: Migration appears to be feeding migration. I met one migrant woman from Ecuador who says that the amount of violence in her country has spiked, and that has led business owners, the job creators in her community, to flee her country and come here to the United States. And she says that that is snowballing, that is forcing the workers to also flee their country and, you guessed it, come to the United States.
 
Rosa Flores, CNN, Eagle Pass, Texas. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Donald Trump is airing his grievances on social media against President Biden and special counsel Jack Smith. CNN's Kristen Holmes has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, former President Trump continuing his quote-unquote Christmas messaging into the week, posting on Truth Social on Tuesday. 
 
Biden's flunky, deranged Jack Smith should go to hell. Now, this, of course, comes after his post on Christmas Day where many
 
 world leaders or former world leaders were calling for peace and unity in a time of war. 
 
This is what Donald Trump was doing on Truth Social, posting: Merry Christmas to all, including crooked Joe Biden's only hope, deranged Jack Smith, the out-of-control lunatic -- goes on to say -- may they rot in hell again. Merry Christmas. 
 
This is not the typical message you would see from any sort of world leader, but it is a message you would see from Donald Trump, who has made an entire political career of being the victim and airing these kinds of grievances, particularly when it comes to the legal cases. Donald Trump's agenda is to play this out in the court of public opinion, and he does believe that this rhetoric of attacking Joe Biden, of attacking Jack Smith, is working for him because he sees those poll numbers.
 
And when you look at that, when you talk to senior members of his team, it is clear that he is not going to tone down this rhetoric or this language at any point. And it's not just these attacks that we see out on Joe Biden or Jack Smith, but it's also his aggressive anti- immigration rhetoric. As he has continued to ramp up that language, those poll numbers, at least in Iowa, have continued to rise.
 
So right now there is no political pressure on him to tone it down, to pull it back at all. Now, obviously, this could change if he is the GOP nominee, if he does go up against Joe Biden in a general election and need to find more moderate voters. But, again, that remains to be seen.
 
Kristen Holmes, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Israel's military chief says the war against Hamas will likely go on for many months. The Israel Defense Forces says it's using ground, air and naval troops to strike at what they claim are terror targets in Gaza.
 
And on Tuesday, dozens of its fighter jets struck more than 100 Hamas targets, including tunnel shafts and infrastructure. But scores of Palestinians have also been killed. The Hamas-controlled health ministry says the death toll in the enclave is now nearing 21,000. Though CNN can't independently verify those numbers. And now there are growing concerns over the war expanding into a wider conflict. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOAV GALLANT, ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER (through translator): We are in a multi-arena war. We are being attacked from seven different sectors, Gaza, Lebanon, Syria, Judea and Samaria, Iraq, Yemen and Iran. We have already responded and acted in six of these decrees. And I say here in the most explicit way, anyone who acts against us is a potential target. There is no immunity for anyone. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Those comments, as a close confidant of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, traveled to Washington to meet with senior U.S. officials about the next phase of the conflict. The high-level talks between the U.S. and Israel also included the worsening humanitarian crisis in Gaza, as well as securing the release of the remaining hostages.
 
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez is in Washington with those details for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Senior U.S. officials meeting on Tuesday with a close confidant of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The hours-long meeting comes as the U.S. looks for Israel to move away from its high-intensity war.
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
Now, Ron Dermer met with Secretary of State Antony Blinken here at the White House, along with National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan. The big question going into the meeting was what the next phase of the war looks like, especially Israel's ground operation in Gaza. 
 
Up until this point, Israel has assured the U.S. that it plans to transition to a low-intensity war with a more precise military strategy and targeting of Hamas leadership, but they haven't offered a timeline, so U.S. officials were looking for more information on that, again, as that death toll continues to rise in Gaza. 
 
Now, over the course of the day, senior Israeli officials were expressing confidence about the nature of the conversations between the U.S. and Israel, describing them as good and saying that the U.S. and Israel are on the same page.
 
But President Biden is under increasing domestic and international pressure over the destruction and devastation in Gaza. And he said earlier this month that Israel risks losing support on the international stage if it doesn't contain those casualties. So the U.S. officials and the close confidant of Benjamin Netanyahu meeting here at the White House to try to get more answers on what this next phase looks like.
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, at the White House. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad have rejected a plan proposed by Egypt to end the war in Gaza. That's according to a Reuters report.
 
The report cites two Egyptian security sources saying the two groups rejected offering any concessions beyond the possible release of more hostages. Reuters also reports that two officials from Hamas and the Islamic Jihad deny this information, with a Hamas member saying that there can be no negotiations without a, quote, comprehensive cessation of aggression. 
 
A U.N. human rights expert says Israel is, quote, working to expel the civilian population of Gaza and permanently alter its composition with expanding evacuation orders and widespread attacks.
 
In response, an Israeli government spokesman asserted that the country has designated an area as a humanitarian zone prior to the ground offensive and urged civilians to temporarily evacuate there. Those comments come as the nearly three-month-long war has left so many civilians across Gaza still struggling to find safety and shelter. CNN's Will Ripley reports from Tel Aviv.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The terrifying sound of ongoing bombardment, Israeli shells hitting targets, closer and closer to this U.N.-run school in central Gaza. For thousands sheltering here, it's time to move again. Families forced to flee for their lives, and this is not the first or even second time for many.
 
Once again, they carry the war-torn pieces of their lives in pursuit of elusive safety. Just days earlier, many here vowed they would never move again, never. A vow they're now willing to break only because they know their children's lives are at stake.
 
OM MOHAMED, GAZA RESIDENT (through translator): There's no safety in the school. We're looking for a safer place. I'm leaving because of the intensity of the airstrikes and the suffering.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Everywhere else is crowded. There's no guarantee they'll find a spot. But what else can they do? Even if they have nowhere else to go, they can't stay here. They don't want to die here. 
 
The scene, a grim reminder of what their parents and grandparents endured in 1948 when Zionist militias forced them out of their hometowns. In the cold winter, blankets and mattresses are precious commodities.
 
Cars and the fuel that run them are scarce. Those who can afford it hire donkey carts. For the rest, it's a long trek on foot.
 
ABU AHMED, GAZA RESIDENT (through translator): It's very tough back there, he says. Bombs are falling on people everywhere. People were injured there. We don't know where we're heading. Everywhere is under threat. We're just moving with the rest of the people.
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): The destination for many? Relatives' homes, a roof over their heads, even if they are in neighborhoods already devastated by Israeli airstrikes. 
 
Street battles raging across Gaza, turning areas north and south of the Strip into ghost towns. The scars of battle raw.
 
YOAV GALLANT, ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER (through translator): We are in a multi-arena war. We are being attacked from seven different sectors, Gaza, Lebanon, Syria, Judea and Samaria, Iraq, Yemen and Iran. Anyone who acts against us is a potential target. There is no immunity for anyone. 
 
RIPLEY (voice-over): Iran's allies in the region engaging in low-level hostilities in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
Yemen's Houthi attacking ships, ships they claim are Israeli- affiliated, turning the Red Sea into a dangerous route for world trade.
 
Iran's vow to avenge the killing of an Iranian commander in Syria, sparking renewed concerns of expanding the conflict. Especially on the Lebanese-Israeli border, artillery fire with the Iran-backed Hezbollah keeping both countries on edge since October 8th. 
 
In Gaza, a race for survival between a routine of airstrikes, rushing to hospitals and burials, and the ongoing search for food and water, and a pursuit of shelter for close to two million people displaced.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Tel Aviv. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Baghdad is condemning a series of retaliatory U.S. airstrikes on Iran-backed militants inside Iraq. The prime minister's office says one security serviceman was killed, and 18 others, including civilians, were injured. The strikes are retaliation for drone attacks on U.S. military positions in Iraq that left three Americans wounded, including one person in critical condition. Iraq says the airstrikes infringe on its sovereignty and are unacceptable under any circumstances. 
 
U.S. Central Command says the Navy has intercepted a barrage of drones and missiles over the Red Sea. The launches started early Tuesday and came from Houthi rebels supported by Iran in Yemen. CENTCOM says there was no damage to any ships in the area or reports of injuries. A senior U.S. official says the Houthis have launched at least 100 attacks in the past month.
 
Ahead for you, what police are telling CNN about the death of South Korean actor Lee Sun-kyun, one of the stars of the hit film Parasite. 
 
Plus, musician Kanye West has made headlines recently for hateful comments about Jewish people, and now he's apologizing. What could be behind this sudden mea culpa? Next on CNN.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: New details are emerging about the shocking death of South Korean actor Lee Sun-kyun, who was best known for his role in the Academy Award-winning film Parasite. According to police, Lee was reported missing by his manager and was later found in his car. Police say his cause of death is presumed to be suicide, after Lee claimed that he was tricked into using drugs and then blackmailed. CNN's Hanako Montgomery is covering this live from Hong Kong. Hana, this is obviously tragic. Lee Sun-kyun, a hugely successful South Korean actor, but we know that he was distressed because he'd been under police investigation into alleged drug use.
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Bianca, as you mentioned, the death of Lee Sun-kyun was extremely sudden and tragic for many of his fans, both domestically and abroad. We know, you know, confirmed by South Korean police that his death is presumed to be a suicide. We also know that his family has not requested an autopsy.
 
Now, as you mentioned at the top there, he was currently being investigated for alleged illegal drug use since October of this year. He's been brought into police questioning three times, most recently on December 23rd, when he was questioned for 19 hours. He was released on Christmas Eve.
 
Now, it's extremely significant to note that throughout the investigation, Lee's drug tests have always come back negative. He's also denied ever knowingly taking drugs. He claims that he was tricked and then subsequently blackmailed. He has filed a lawsuit against this alleged blackmailer. 
 
Now, on social media, in reaction to Lee's tragic and sudden death, there has been an outpour of grief and just messages of sorrow. Internationally, he shot to fame in 2019 after the release of Parasite, which was a non-English language film that won Best Picture in 2020. It also won three other Oscars. 
 
Now, domestically, within South Korea, his career spanned two decades. He starred in a number of TV shows and films, and he was really just a beloved actor in the country. And as I mentioned, there has been just an outpour of grief around the world today. 
 
NOBILO: Hanako Montgomery, thank you so much for joining us. 
 
Just days ahead of him dropping a new album, Kanye West is apologizing to the Jewish community for anti-Semitic remarks. It follows a host of offensive statements that he's made about the Jewish and black communities. CNN's entertainment correspondent, Elizabeth Wagmeister, has more for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT: Kanye West, who has a long history of making anti-Semitic comments, has apologized to the Jewish community.
 
In an Instagram post written in Hebrew, West, who legally changed his name to Ye, shared this message with over 18 million followers. 
 
Quote: I offer my sincere apologies to the Jewish community for any unintended outbursts caused by my words or actions. It was never my intention to hurt or disrespect, and I deeply regret any pain I may have caused.
 
I recognize the importance of learning from this experience, and I am committed to fostering greater sensitivity and understanding in the future. Your forgiveness holds significant value to me, and I am dedicated to making amends and working toward promoting unity. 
 
Now, it is unclear what prompted the apology from the rapper, though it is worth noting he is expected to release a new album next month.
 
It was more than one year ago that Adidas Balenciaga and the Hollywood talent agency, CAA, severed ties with Ye after a series of anti- Semitic remarks, including a tweet that led to his Twitter being locked. 
 
Where he said he was, quote, going DEFCON 3 on Jewish people. 
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
It was just two weeks ago that Ye sparked criticism again when he made anti-Semitic remarks at a listening party in Las Vegas for his upcoming album, seemingly comparing himself to Adolf Hitler. He also performed on stage in Miami earlier this month, rapping offensive lyrics. 
 
In a statement to CNN, the Anti-Defamation League said, quote: After causing untold damage by using his vast influence and platform to poison countless minds with vicious antisemitism and hate, an apology in Hebrew may be the first step on a long journey towards making amends to the Jewish community and all those who he has hurt. 
 
The nonprofit organization also said that ultimately actions will speak louder than words.
 
Ye does not currently have a listed publicist to seek comment. Back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: After some battleground disappointments, Ukraine strikes a Russian ship in Crimea. Details on that ahead. 
 
Plus, thousands of Americans are losing money in a fast-growing financial fraud scam based in Myanmar. A CNN investigation is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Bianca Nobilo. And if you're just joining us, let me bring you up to date with our top stories this hour.
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Mayorkas --
 
END