Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: U.S. Fighter Jets Take Out "High-Altitude Object" Off Alaska Coast; Time Is Running Out For Search And Rescue Efforts; DA To Review All Cases Tied To Ex-Officers Charged In Nichols' Death; Defense Calls For Mistrial In Murdaugh Case After Housekeeper Testifies; Russia Escalates Attacks But Major Offensive Not Yet Launched; U.S. Plans To End COVID-19 Public Health Emergency; Federal Government Ramps up Security for Super Bowl. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired February 11, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:38] 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me this Saturday. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
All right. We begin this hour with the search for answers after the U.S. shot down what is described as an unidentified high altitude object. A U.S. Fighter jet taking it down off the coast of Alaska this time on Friday. Pentagon officials say they acted swiftly, after the object, about the size of a small car, crossed into frozen territorial waters. 
 
It's the second time in less than a week that U.S. fighter jets have shot an object out of the sky. Following that spy balloon that was taken down off the coast of South Carolina last Saturday. 
 
CNN reporter Katie Bo Lillis is live in our Washington bureau with more on this. So Katie Bo, twice in a week's time. What are we learning about this second object and who it might belong to? 
 
KATIE BO LILLIS, CNN REPORTER: Well Fredricka, at this point, we still really have more questions than answers. What we do know is that on Thursday, the U.S. military observed an unknown object in American air space, off of the coast of Alaska. They sent up some military aircraft to try to take a look at this thing.
 
And the pilots weren't really able to tell a whole lot. They could tell that it was unmanned, and that it was flying at about 40,000 feet which raised some concerns for interference with civilian aircraft which we understand to be part of the reason if not the primary reason why President Biden moved to order on Friday for the military to shoot this thing down. 
 
But at this point, military and Pentagon officials still don't have a lot of answers for us about what exactly this is. They are still calling it an object at this point. They have told us that it is about the size of a small car, that it is not the size or the shape of the spy balloon that transited the continental United States and was shot down off the coast of South Carolina last week.
 
And we do know from one U.S. official that it did not appear to have any surveillance equipment attached to it, and that it didn't appear to have any real maneuverability. It was just kind of riding the wind making its movements sort of unpredictable. 
 
But that's about all we know at this point. We're really going to be reliant on waiting for the U.S. military as well as the FBI to recover this thing, that was shot down ten miles off the coast of Alaska over frozen waters and try to kind of piece together and learn what they can about who might own it, was it privately owned, was it operated and owned by a nation state? And as well as what it is. So really, kind of a big mystery right now, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: A big mystery. All right, thank you so much, Katie Bo Lillis. 
 
So let's talk more about all this now. Let's bring in former director of National Intelligence, James Clapper. James, good to see you. 
 
So still, lots of unanswered questions about its origin, the potential intent, but knowing what you know and perhaps what the public knows, you know, do you believe the U.S. was right to shoot it down? 
 
JAMES CLAPPER, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Well, I think it probably was, Fredricka, since it potentially posed a hazard to navigation perhaps to general aviation, we don't know if there is a lot of commercial aviation in that region of the world. 
 
I do think though, Fred, that it points up the need for I think some kind of protocol or rules of engagement that the administration could develop and share with the public and the Congress, and seek the Congress' input on just what the rules are on these balloons or whatever the objects are and what the procedures and rules of engagement are going to be on what we're going to do with them whether gather intelligence, watch them, shoot them down, or what. 
 
And I think that would help, it would serve the purpose of kind of reducing the hyper ventilation over these errant balloons. This last object is kind of a mysterious to me, since the Pentagon has been pretty cautious about saying anything about it. 
 
But I do think we -- since it's clear that the Chinese at least have a fleet of these balloons, and we're probably going to have more occasions to deal with this, that some rules that both the public and the Congress would understand would be helpful. 
 <br>[11:04:48]
 
WHITFIELD: So again, we don't know the origin of this object, as it is being described, but is it your feeling that if there's a correlation, if the origin is the same, if it is indeed China, do you feel like this is -- this could be like a test run, to see how the U.S. reacted to this one since there are some differences, it doesn't have the same maneuverability, it's smaller, a test to see how the U.S. would respond to this, versus the other one, which did have a chance to traverse the entire country, you know, west to east, before being shot down over water in South Carolina. 
 
CLAPPER: Well that's certainly a plausible thesis that again, assuming it was China, that they decided to try a probe with a less expensive, less technologically advanced system, than the one that they lost to the shoot-down. So that's plausible. 
 
But it's really hard for me to speculate, not knowing exactly what the object, as the Pentagon described it, what it really is. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. And we talked last week, you and I talked last week, you know, as it pertained to that other suspected spy balloon, and you made the point that you know what, what's not so unique, is that countries spy on one another all the time. So if that's what this was, the purpose of this, you know, was to spy, survey, you know, the United States, that's not so unusual.
 
But this does seem unique, right? Because of the lack of maneuverability, maybe it was, you know, powered by wind, that it is the size of a small car as it's being described versus the other one, which was the length of three buses. Or is this unique? If this is a way in which to spy, how unique in your view is this? 
 
CLAPPER: Well, we don't know. I mean hopefully they will recover what's left of this object, and be in a better position to identify what its actual purpose is and capabilities. 
 
And it does show though, that the Chinese will push the envelope on collecting intelligence, whether it's stealing intellectual property, spies buying property near defensive (ph) installations, operating a very sophisticated and extensive overhead reconnaissance network. 
 
And in this case, I think, taking advantage of an altitude regime that is not well observed, and you kind of have to hand it to them for doing that. And it poses a challenge for us, a domain -- presents a domain awareness gap as (INAUDIBLE) characterized it and we need to respond to that. 
 
WHITFIELD: Retired Colonel Cedric Leighton was on CNN earlier and brought up an interesting point. Listen to this one. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: What's interesting is this particular object was flying over Prudhoe Bay, which is of course, a major oil field for the U.S., and there could be some economic interest in deciding, you know, exactly what this is, maybe making some geologic measurements, doing those kinds of things. 
 
So it is hard to say exactly what it is right now, but they're definitely interested in something that the U.S. has, I would believe. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Are your interests piqued when you hear about that, you know, the economic incentive potentially for an Alaska, or say in the last case involving that balloon, it was Montana and you know, military -- sensitive military installations? 
 
CLAPPER: I think Cedric makes a great point. There is huge interest in the Arctic by virtue of the fact of global warming, and the fact that the Arctic can be a transit route as well as probably huge reserves of oil. And the Chinese definitely have an interest, an economic interest in that. 
 
So I think Cedric is right on the money with that comment. And their interests can be other than for military targets but economic as well. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. James Clapper, we'll leave it there for now. Good to see you again. Thanks so much. 
 
CLAPPER: Thanks, Fredricka. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. And now to Turkey where the death toll from this week's earthquake has now surpassed 25,000. Five days after the earthquake hit, rescuers are still finding people alive. The latest remarkable rescue happened today, a 70-year-old woman pulled from the rubble, 121 hours after the quake hit. And a few hours earlier, in the same town, a 16-year-old boy was pulled alive from the rubble of a destroyed building. Rescuers started searching the location after they heard his voice coming from below the wreckage. 
 <br>[11:09:50]
 
WHITFIELD: But time is running out to find other victims alive. One senior U.N. official warning they are approaching the end of the search and rescue window, and many of those who died are being buried in mass graves like this one in Turkey. And for the thousands of survivors, most are left with nothing. 
 
CNN's Nada Bashir is in Turkey. Nada, what is the latest on the search, recovery, rescue efforts -- all of the above? 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Fred, the search and rescue effort is still ongoing, but as you said there time is running out and hope to find people alive beneath the rubble is certainly dwindling. 
 
But we are hearing these stories, remarkable stories of hope, people still being found alive days after Monday's earthquake as you laid. And there is one video -- quite emotional and moving released just shortly in the last few hours, by our affiliate CNN Turk, showing a father and his young daughter in the city of Hatay being rescued after 132 hours beneath the rubble. A hugely remarkable feat there, but the father of course, also worried for his wife, calling out to the rescuers to continue their search for his wife who he said is still alive beneath the rubble.
 
And that is just a reminder of the reality being faced by so many others across Turkey and northwest Syria -- many loved one, family members, waiting for news of their loved ones still buried beneath the rubble in hopes that they will be found alive. But of course, dwindling as the hours pass by.
 
And as the days continue, that death toll growing every single day. But look, that aid effort, the humanitarian effort has also become a huge focus here in Turkey and also across northwest Syria. We've seen thousands taking part in volunteering and supporting those impacted by the earthquake, donating clothes. 
 
Huge warehouses here in Istanbul, filled with donations and humanitarian assistance. We've seen the outpouring of support by the international community as well as search and rescue teams flying in from across the globe to take part in that effort. 
 
But the real concern has now shifted to northwest Syria. Of course, it has taken days to get aid into northwest Syria. And while we did see flights going into Damascus, there was real concern and are continued to be concerned that that aid isn't not making it close to rebel-held territories in the northwest. 
 
According to the U.N., at least 22 aid trucks have now crossed the Turkish border through Bab al-Hawa border into northwest Syria just today. So some hope there that, but certainly more needs to be done in the region. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Nada Bashir, thanks so much in Turkey.
 
Let's bring in now Jamie LeSueur. He is head of emergency operations for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Society in Europe and Central Asia. He is in Gaziantep, Turkey. 
 
So good to see you. What are you seeing on the ground there? 
 
JAMIE LESUEUR, HEAD OF EMERGENCY OPERATIONS, INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF RED CROSS AND RED CRESCENT SOCIETY: Well, we're seeing a lot of people that are outside. The reality is is that many buildings have toppled, the loss of life is immense. 
 
And although we're here to mourn and grieve for those who passed, we're here to save the living. And so what we're doing with the Turkish Red Crescent is we're running hot meals and within the last six days, 4.5 million of those who have gone out the Turkish Red Crescent has put their entire blood supply for the country into this area, out at the medical facilities. 
 
And if we look at sort of what people need right now, it's food, it's health, it's water and it's shelter. And that's what we're trying to do. 
 
WHITFIELD: So as this rescue operation sadly turns into a recovery operation in so many parts, you know, is this also turning into a full-blown humanitarian crisis? Is there, you know, time to even avert that? 
 
LESUEUR: Well, what we did, is at the beginning it was on the search and rescue phase. And that usually lasts for the first week, or 72 hours of the crisis. 
 
We've now entered into the humanitarian phase. That is going to last us for a couple of months, where we'll still try to meet people's basic needs. What's more important, though, is setting ourselves up for the recovery. And that transition. 
 
So for instance, right now, we're looking at tents. We have a lot of tents coming in right now that are winterized to keep people safe as they live in camps. However, what we're also looking at is pre-fab transitional shelter solutions so that at the end of the day, people can get out of tents. 
 
This is a middle income country. They are not used to sleeping in tents nor do we want them to. So we want to get them out of the humanitarian phase as quickly as possible into something sustainable and transitional that's going to keep them safe for a long time. 
 
WHITFIELD: Because you aren't just talking about people who have been displaced because of their apartment buildings, their homes are the ones that, you know, fell apart, that crumbled. But there are people whose homes are intact, but they are so afraid to return to their homes. They're sleeping in their cars, you know. They're running out of fuel to keep their cars warm. 
 
They are going to the bathroom right outside, so there are a lot of health concerns that you have to be anticipating, too -- dysentery, cholera -- things like that. 
 <br>[11:14:58]
 
WHITFIELD: What do you do to get ahead of that because perhaps you may not have enough of this temporary, you know, fabricated structures or even tents to house everybody who needs to be housed. 
 
LESUEUR: Yes, I mean my field coordinator here is still sleeping in his car and still responding to the earthquake. Most of the population around us is too afraid to go inside. My team -- we're sleeping outside as well. 
 
That's the reality. We have to be prepared for any eventuality that can come happens. We're talking with the Turkish Red Crescent about sanitation modules. We're getting in chemical toilets to get ahead of the potential for any sort of communicable disease. 
 
We really need to be adaptable and flexible as this operation shifts, and as perhaps the population flees out of the earthquake area because they're so scared. 
 
But at the end of the day, operational flexibility and partnership with government is a critical way to do that effectively. 
 
WHITFIELD: How concerned are you about people who were in need, whether it be there in the border, in Turkey, or perhaps even in Syria, roads are inaccessible. How do you get to people? How do you assist? 
 
LESUEUR: It is a great question. In Turkey, we've established an operation that goes to the border with Syria. And in Syria, we're using the Syrian Arab Red Crescent that is going up to the Turkish border. We're trying to cover the entire operating area with two national societies that I'm in awe of in terms of their capacity. We're building on an emergency social safety net program, which is the
 
 largest cash program in the world and we're putting our emergency response on top of it. That was specifically for Syrian refugees who were coming over into Turkey. So we've got good access and good capacity at this level to provide support for those who need it most. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Jamie LeSueur, thank you so much. 
 
LESUEUR: Thank you. 
 
WHITFIELD: For more information about how you can help victims of the earthquake in Turkey and Syria, go to CNN.com/impact. 
 
All right. Coming up, the former Memphis officers charged in the beating death of Tyre Nichols under more scrutiny. Prosecutors are looking into every prior case they were involved in, closed or pending. 
 
Plus, explosive testimony in the Alex Murdaugh double murder trial. The family housekeeper took the stand. And now, the defense is calling for a mistrial. Details next. 
 <br>[11:17:23]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. New details are emerging in the investigation into the death of Tyre Nichols. The district attorney's office in Shelby County, Tennessee say prosecutors will now review every prior case tied to the five ex-officers charged in the brutal beating. And this comes as newly released documents show a sixth officer involved in the encounter lied in his statements to investigators.
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales is following the story for us. So Isabel, you know, this has turned into a sprawling investigation. What's new?
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right. This is far from over, Fred. 
 
These five officers may face a whole litany of new legal woes. So prosecutors, what they're doing here is reviewing every past criminal case in which these five officers were involved in since really day of them becoming police officers.
 
Steven Mulroy, the Shelby County district attorney says this means all cases -- meaning closed and pending cases.
 
On the flipside, Fred, it's not just prosecutors that are taking action here but also defense attorneys that we've spoken with in Memphis that are combing through their individual cases seeing if their client ever ran into any member of this now defunct Scorpion Unit.
 
Their hope here is that whatever legal woes that their individual clients were facing will crumble away the same way as the credibility of this Scorpion Unit. So we also Fred have done a CNN analysis, looking into the
 
 disciplinary documents and those four clips that we saw, the body worn camera and that pole camera and we've managed to cross-reference and piece together which officer did what, to what extent did they beat Tyre Nichols, and who was the officer that tased him as well. 
 
So we're looking at Demetrius Haley (ph) and Emmitt Martin (ph). We see them just yanking, Haley yanking Nichols out of the police vehicle, Haley and Martin, then threatening Nichols. And you can see right there, trying to force his hand behind his back. Haley then pepper sprayed Nichols right in the face during that initial stop. 
 
This scene continues as they drive over to that second scene where we see that pole camera footage. Emmitt Martin kicking Nichols multiple times right there and also punching Nichols in the face five times. 
 
Haley rushed up to the two officers, attempting to handcuff Nichols and then kicking Nichols again. Haley and Nichols (SIC) did not assist in the handcuffing of Nichols, and instead backed away. 
 
But on the body camera footage, we do see Haley and Martin telling police officers what they said happened just moments ago. Take a listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Then he was going for the gun. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He grabbed -- he grabbed -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Look -- you've got him out of the car -- 
 
(INAUDIBLE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He reached for my gun.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: So you hear them saying that Nichols reached for Martin's gun, which big problem here, we have all of that video footage that did not corroborate those claims. In fact those claims were deemed to be untruthful based on disciplinary hearing summaries that we got. 
 
So the proof is in the pudding there when it comes to the video. Clearly, the reckoning of what has happened, Fred, to Tyre Nichols -- this is far from over. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, it really is. I mean this is what prosecutors will be doing. You have pored over the tape. You're trying to corroborate, cross-reference.
 
ROSALES: Yes.
 <br>[11:24:58] WHITFIELD: Prosecutors will be doing the same thing. And just hearing the portion in the context in which you presented it, it's as if, you know, this is the story, right? You know, without the words that connect, this is the story that we're all telling. 
 
All right, it's still disturbing to see that tape, you know, to see it over and over again and to hear it. 
 
All right. Thanks so much. Isabel Rosales, appreciate that. 
 
All right. Another dramatic day in court in the South Carolina double murder trial of Alex Murdaugh. On Friday, the family housekeeper took the stand and recounted the concerns Alex Murdaugh's wife Maggie had about his financial troubles and his truthfulness. And two more witnesses positively identifying Alex Murdaugh's voice in a key video authorities say was recorded shortly before the killings. 
 
CNN's Randi Kaye has more from Walterboro, South Carolina. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It was a dramatic moment in court (AUDIO GAP) and the defense started pushing for a mistrial. It was denied by the judge but they were pushing for that mistrial after the prosecution started questioning the Murdaugh's former housekeeper about Maggie Murdaugh's state of mind and how Maggie Murdaugh felt about the money situation in their marriage. 
 
The defense basically said that that is hearsay because Maggie Murdaugh is no longer here and cannot testify about that on her own. But much of the day, the housekeeper spent testifying about what she saw Alex Murdaugh wearing the day of the murders. 
 
Both the prosecution and the defense asked her about this, and here's what she said. 
 
JOHN MEADORS, PROSECUTOR: Was that shirt there.
 
BLANCA TURRUBIATE-SIMPSON, MURDAUGH HOUSEKEEPER: No sir.
 
MEADORS: Were these shoes that you saw -- the house slippers, were those there? 
 
SIMPSON: No sir. 
 
MEADORS: Did you ever see those house shoes again? 
 
SIMPSON: No, sir. 
 
MEADORS: And where he did usually keep them? 
 
SIMPSON: In the closet. 
 
DICK HARPOOTLIAN, DEFENSE ATTORNEY: When he left that night, on the night of the 7th and went to his mother and father's house, you don't know what clothes he took with him, what shoes he was wearing, you had no idea, correct? 
 
SIMPSON: That is correct. 
 
KAYE: All of this matters because the prosecution has been laying the ground work that Alex Murdaugh allegedly showered and changed his clothes after killing his family, so that's why there was so much talk about the clothing. 
 
Now the housekeeper did testify that she found a pair of khaki pants that Alex Murdaugh had been wearing the day of the murder. She found those the following morning. 
 
And on cross-examination, the defense asked her, did you see any bloodstains on those pants, did you find any bloodstains or any blood in the shower. And her answer was no. 
 
Looking ahead, the state expects to rest its case on Wednesday. The defense will pick it up from there and they say their defense case could likely last another week. 
 
Randi Kaye, CNN -- Walterboro, South Carolina. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Thanks so much, Randi. 
 
All right. Russia is intensifying its attack in Ukraine, a barrage of missiles hitting across the country, but is it the beginning of a much larger Russian offensive? We'll go live to Kyiv, next. 
 <br>[11:27:59]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Russia is intensifying its strikes in Ukraine. Ukraine was hit rather with a barrage of missiles Friday, targeting critical power infrastructure in several parts of the country. But Ukrainian forces claim to have shot down 61 of those missiles. 
 
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is back in Kyiv, after appealing to European governments for more fire power. He called for more modern tanks, long-range missiles, and fighter jets. 
 
CNN's David McKenzie is in Kyiv for us. So is this the beginning of what is feared to be a new Russian offensive? 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fredricka, it is certainly going to be a critical phase of this war, with everyone you speak to, and you look at those requests from President Zelenskyy, it speaks to the needs of the Ukrainian military as they enter this phase. 
 
Up to 50 attacks a day, according to the force commander here in Ukraine, in the eastern theater of this conflict. Very intense salvos, attacks, artillery and soldier attacks of that part of the eastern front. And it all speaks to a -- just in a few day, the first anniversary of
 
 this conflict, and really what's at stake. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCKENZIE: Russian forces left exposed on the frozen flat lands around Vuhledar, one of the most deadly zones of the eastern front. Ukrainian artillery and drones picking off the static targets. 
 
Even pro-Russian sources say they've taken heavy losses here. 
 
Ukrainian foot patrols toured the southern outskirts of the heavily damaged town and they appear to be taking some prisoners, too. 
 
These men identified themselves as belonging to Russia's 155th Marine Brigade. To the north, on the edges of Bakhmut, Russian troops advancing block by block towards the city. They have been inching forward for months, taking heavy losses. Ukrainian forces desperate to deny Vladimir Putin a symbolic victory as the first anniversary of this war approaches. 
 
Across a wide area in the east, the Ukrainians detect a buildup in Russian troops and heavy weapons. That could be a prelude to a widely- anticipated offensive. But Ukrainian officials have told CNN that in some areas, their own troops are critically short of munitions. 
 
The boss of the Wagner mercenaries fighting in the Bakhmut, Yevgeniy Prigozhin, is predicting the conflict has months and probably years to run. 
 <br>[11:34:56]
 
MCKENZIE: "If we need to reach the Dnipro River," he says, it is another three years. If we need to capture Donetsk and Luhansk, then we need to work for one and a half to two years. If we need to reach the English Channel, then I have my own perfect plan."
 
Away from the front lines, one of Russia's largest scale missile attacks in weeks, targeting Ukrainian civilian infrastructure, including this thermal plant in Dnipro. 
 
The city of Zaporizhzhia hit 17 times in one hour. Russian cruise missiles struck the power grid. The immense power of the strike throwing a car on to the roof of a house. 
 
"They're not humans," says Yeven (ph) of the Russians. "I don't know what they're thinking about when they're doing this, when they press the buttons and shell civilians."
 
The Ukrainians say they brought down 61 of the 70 missiles, fired. 
 
Not to limit damage to the power supply. As sirens blared, thousands of people in the capital Kyiv took to the subway shelters to run businesses and take classes. It's a well-practiced routine. 
 
"The children may not be comfortable," says teacher Elena, "But since September, the alarms have been so frequent, that they've gotten used to classes in the metro."
 
In the skies above, the war against Russia's missiles and drones goes on. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCKENZIE: Weapons, equipment, ammunition -- that's what the force commander here in Ukraine said they needed when he spoke to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the U.S., Mark Milley.
 
So there is this country new called Fredricka for supplies, weapons, the needs, because of that intense fighting in the east and the possible beginning of a wider offensive or fight-back by the Russian forces. 
 
Certainly with President Biden coming to the region in the next few days, there will be an increased urgency, I think, from the Ukrainians to ask for more support to try and push the Russians back. Fredricka? 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Hard to believe all of this is still going on, just ahead of that one-year marker. 
 
All right. David McKenzie in Ukraine, thanks so much. 
 
All right. Still ahead, the Biden administration is about to declare an end to the COVID-19 public health emergency in this country. What this means and how it affects you, straight ahead. 
 <br>[11:37:31]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. This spring, COVID-19 will no longer be classified as a public health emergency in the U.S. It will set off a complex set of policy changes and bring an end to some of the services that are now free like no cost over-the-counter COVID tests. 
 
CNN health reporter Jacqueline Howard explains what will change once the emergency declaration ends in May. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: The COVID-19 public health emergency is set to end in about 90 days. So how will this affect all of us? 
 
Well, people with private insurance could no longer get over-the- counter at home COVID tests for free. That's unless their insurers decide to cover them and they could face charges for lab tests. 
 
And then people on Medicare could face out-of-pocket costs for over- the-counter COVID tests. So to prepare for all of this, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra sent a letter to state governors just this week detailing what will be affected.
 
Some examples are certain Medicare and Medicaid waivers, coverage for testing, reporting data to CDC and certain guidance documents for industry and the supply chain of materials. And if you've been getting your prescriptions from your doctor through telehealth, the ability of health care providers to dispense controlled substances through tele- medicine appointments could be affected. 
 
But there will be rule making that will propose to extend that so this is an ongoing conversation.
 
Now what will not be affected are the emergency use authorizations that the FDA issued during the pandemic. Those were for vaccines, treatments and tests. Those authorizations are separate from the emergency. And HHS official Dr. Steven Cha (ph), says the end of the emergency on May 11th should not have much of an immediate impact on getting your COVID shot. 
 
DR. STEVEN CHA, HHS OFFICIAL: Insured, uninsured, it doesn't matter. On May 11th, you can walk into a pharmacy and get your COVID shot. On May 12th, you can walk into a pharmacy and get your COVID shot or Paxlovid. 
 
HOWARD: But of course for everything else, Medicare, Medicaid, tele- health and more, discussions will continue in the coming weeks, as the nation prepares to transition out of the COVID-19 public health emergency. 
 
Back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Jacqueline Howard, thanks so much. 
 
All right. Melting snow has Jeremy Renner feeling hopeful as he recovers from his snowplow accident. The actor posting this photo on Instagram showing his Lake Tahoe home surrounded by massive piles of snow, with a cleared path to his front door. Renner wrote, "This melt brings hope and a new entrance into my house, it seems, right in the front."
 
It's the first Instagram post from Renner since he recently revealed that he broke more than 30 bones when he was injured by a snow plow while clearing a driveway near his home.
 
All right. Just a little more than 24 hours, until Super Bowl LVII kicks off. We're live outside the stadium to preview the big game, next. 
 <br>[11:44:45]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We're almost there. The stage is set for the biggest game in American sports. And we are now just one day away from kickoff of Super Bowl LVII. Patrick Mahomes and the Chiefs taking on Jalen Hurts and the Eagles.
 
CNN's Andy Scholes is outside the stadium in Glendale, Arizona. Andy, set the scene. I know people are pumped. 
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Oh yes, Fredricka. I mean -- this should be a great game. On paper, this is as close as it gets. The Philadelphia Eagles are slight favorites for Super Bowl LVII over the Chiefs -- 1.5 points. 
 <br>[11:49:51]
 
SCHOLES: But no matter who wins, we are going to see history here tomorrow. This is going to be the first time ever that two black quarterbacks square off in the Super Bowl. 
 
For Patrick Mahomes, he's trying to become just the fifth quarterback ever to win two Super Bowls before turning 28 years old. 
 
And then Jalen Hurts on the other hand, I mean he's trying to complete an incredible journey. Hurts starred at Alabama before being benched by Tua Tagovailoa (ph) in the Tyler game. He then went to Oklahoma, he led them to the college football playoffs. 
 
And in just his second season as a starter for the Eagles, he has them one win away from winning the Super Bowl. And we've been talking to Hurts' teammates all week and asking them what makes him such a great leader. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
A.J. BROWN, PHILADELPHIA EAGLES: His mindset is on another level. You know, he's always listened to Tom Brady or something on the Internet or watching Michael Jordan highlights or something. 
 
Everybody on the team respects him. It's been fun just watching him grow. Over the last few years, he's become -- just become a leader. Obviously when you're starting quarterback, some people feel like they're forced to do it, but I think Jalen was born for that, you know. He was born to be a leader. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: Yes. Certainly can't wait for Hurts and Mahomes tomorrow. But you know, Fredricka, Super Bowl week is much more than just the game on Sunday. There are big parties and events all week long and arguably the biggest party of them all was last night, Shaq's Fun House. 
 
This event gets bigger and better every year. There's all kinds of food, drinks, carnival games. Snoop Dogg performed and Shaq was DJing and mingling with all of the fans.
 
I got to catch up with Shaq in the middle of the party and asked him, you know, why does he enjoy throwing such a big bash during Super Bowl week. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL, FORMER NBA STAR: It's the big game weekend. We know that Sunday's going to be fun with two of those athletes going for the Super Bowl title. Most of these parties -- I hate to use the B word but they've been boring.
 
You know, I'm all about fun. Shaq is the master of fun. My plan is all about fun. I just want people to come out here and have a good time. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: Fredricka, Shaq was there shooting free throws for all of the fans that were watching. It was very similar to his NBA playing career. He didn't make any of them. 
 
But I give him a break, though, because you know, those carnival rims, they're higher and smaller than a normal basketball goes. It's kind of a scam, right? 
 
WHITFIELD: I guess so. Ok. That looks so fun. I love that -- yes, Shaq is synonymous with fun. I mean you know, what could go wrong there? 
 
Very good. 
 
All right. Andy Scholes, glad you had a chance to have a good time as well. 
 
All right. With nearly 200,000 fans expected to attend tomorrow's Super Bowl, multiple federal agencies are ramping up security on the ground and in the sky. 
 
CNN's Rosa Flores is on the ground for us in Glendale, Arizona. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: With a U.S. Customs and Border Protection helicopter, a U.S. Air Force KC 135 strato tanker and an F- 16 fighter jet doing over Glendale, Arizona -- they're tasked with guarding the skies over Super Bowl LVII. 
 
With nearly 200,000 fans expected for the big game between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles, security is a multiple agency effort. 
 
What types of threats does the FBI prepare for when it comes to the Super Bowl? 
 
AKIL DAVIS, FBI SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE, PHOENIX FIELD OFFICE: Yes, a wide variety. Anything from active shooters to explosive threats, IED threats, bomb threats, suspicious packages. 
 
FLORES: From this operation center, the FBI alongside more than 40 federal, state and local law enforcement agencies will use these 360- degree cameras to have eyes on every inch of the stadium. 
 
Scott Brown is the federal top official in charge of security. 
 
SCOTT BORWN, HOMELAND SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: I was in New York for 9/11. I've seen the devastating impacts of terrorism on our soil. I am deeply committed, as are all my partners, that are making sure that we don't have an incident like that here. 
 
FLORES: Sky patrol is in the hands of U.S. Customs and Border Protection Air and Marine Operations. 
 
When you're teams are patrolling, what should they be looking for? 
 
JOSE MURIENTE, TUCSON AIR BRANCH, CBP AIR AND MARINE OPERATIONS: They're going to look for anything out of the ordinary, anything from smoke to disruptions. 
 
FLORES: CBP Air and Marine Operations will be able to fly over the stadium during the big game but no other aircraft will because the FAA will be imposing a flight restriction that's 30 miles wide. 
 
Those flight restrictions will be enforced by NORAD, the North American Aerospace Defense Command with these Air Force F-16 fighter jets. 
 
MAJOR ANDREW SCOTT, 601ST Air Operations Center: Since 9/11 we've been able to safely escort out any aircraft that's violated restricted air space. 
 
FLORES: NORAD is taking no chances. This KC135 Strato tanker is part of the fleet on hand. 
 
This aircraft can carry up to 200,000 pounds of fuel. There are ten tanks on board, including some on the wings. And it can refuel an F-16 midair in minutes. 
 <br>[11:54:55]
 
ANDREW SEE, CAPTAIN, NORAD: So it prevents us from having to return for fuel on the ground. So it's absolutely critical. 
 
FLORES: The fighter jets refuel from a receptacle that's right behind the pilot. 
 
SEE: And my job as the pilot is just to remain within the basket in a safe, controlled, stable position. 
 
FLORES: If the FAA's flight restrictions are broken, NORAD or CBP Air and Marine Operations will engage. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our role in the event of a criminal event is to bring special response teams to the scene. 
 
FLORES: The message from law enforcement to anyone thinking about committing a crime during the Super Bowl is simple. 
 
DAVIS: Don't do it. You're going to wind up in cuffs. 
 
FLORES: Rosa Flores, CNN -- Glendale, Arizona. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Still ahead, an unimaginable tragedy. And now a race against time to find people who may be alive under the rubble after the earthquake in Syria and Turkey.
 
Hope remains amid some miraculous recoveries more than 100 hours after the disaster. The latest straight ahead.
 <br>[11:55:54]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)