Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: People in Nigeria Lining up at Banks for Cash; Nigeria Decides as Economy Declines; Ahmed: Nigeria's Young Population is a Great Asset; Mobile World Congress Underway in Barcelona; Young Girl Feeds Stray Cats in Rubble of her Former Home; Tornado Confirmed in Oklahoma, two Reported in Kansas. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired February 27, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNNI HOST: A warm welcome to "First Move", fantastic to be with you and plenty to come this hour on this the next to last day of 
 
 February. Financial markets remain cautionary as U.S. data stays inflationary. Brexit talks today, we hope that exemplary while election 
 
 results in Nigeria still very preliminary.
 
And returns from one of the most consequential elections in Nigeria's History finally trickling in after logistical issues and frustrating vote 
 
 tally delays an extremely tight three way ways that could go to a runoff but a big early victory of third party candidate Peter Obi.
 
We are live in Lagos with all the latest so much at stake that Africa's largest economy and most populous nation as it grapples with fuel and cash 
 
 shortages, rampant corruption in the oil and gas sector, a punishing debt load and double digit inflation. We'll be discussing the way forward for 
 
 Nigeria later in the show with Zainab Ahmed, the country's Finance Minister.
 
And from Presidential votes to stock market quotes. Take a look at this, the major U.S. averages on track for an early session bounce after the 
 
 worst week on Wall Street since December. Europe, as you can see also headed for a strong Session Result.
 
The S&amp;P 500 meanwhile, falling more than 1 percent on Friday and more than 2 percent for the week that after the Federal Reserve's preferred measure 
 
 of inflation came in hotter than expected all this of course, raising fresh uncertainties over the path of borrowing costs higher.
 
I think, is the message rather than anything else, and softness in and across Asian markets amid busy news flow. The United States once again 
 
 warning Beijing not to send arms to Russia for use in Ukraine and consequences your new reporting too on the possible origin of COVID from 
 
 China more on all of that in just a few moments.
 
But first, we do head to Nigeria where results are finally appearing characterized. If a third force candidate election Officials say the Labor 
 
 Party's Peter Obi has won Lagos state that's the country's most populous region. The state is typically a stronghold of the ruling APC party.
 
It is of course though, a historic election with the country's two party system facing an unprecedented challenge by Obi's Labor Party. But the 
 
 election has been overshadowed by widespread reports of delays and technical issues. Many voters have complained of intimidation and attempt 
 
 to suppress their votes.
 
Larry Madowo joins us now live from Lagos. Larry, always great to have you with us! I can see people standing behind you. It's not just about the 
 
 ability to vote in this election. It's also the ability to access cash. Huge questions, I think being asked about the delays here. How concerned 
 
 are we that perhaps people question the ultimate result when we finally get it?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That is a possibility here, Julia, because for the first time in Nigeria, there was no Former Military leader or no 
 
 income and running for President there were 18 people but three men realistically had a chance to win, though there were two from the 
 
 established parties, as you mentioned, Tinubu and Atiku but the man that has excited the youth was Peter Obi.
 
He's the one that got the young people to register and record numbers. And that's why they were trying to change Nigeria, because situations like 
 
 this, you see a situation outside the bank, where people are queuing up for money because Nigeria recently demonetized the higher currencies of the 
 
 Naira.
 
It led to a massive shortage and chaotic scenes outside banks. And the election is over; they're queuing up to vote. Now they're queuing up to 
 
 access their own money. And these are some of the inconveniences of living in Nigeria that people have been telling us they want to change to.
 
They don't want to have to queue up like this to access their own money. And that is why people who didn't have a chance to vote because of 
 
 disruptions and violence and delays were so upset that they were denied a chance to actually have their voices heard and get determined the leaders, 
 
 I spoke to some of them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Nothing works in this country. There is no security. There is no good hospital. There is neither good road. Nothing works. The 
 
 educational system is in shambles.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I must fight for my daughter's place. I must fight for her. She must have a better life.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are tired, me I'm tired. I'm tired of seeing this crap!
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO: We're tired. That's what she said before is that nothing works in this country. And this is truly a sign of a dysfunctional society that 
 
 people have to queue up for their own money, Julia, and sometimes they get sent home because the bank has run out of cash. This demonetization and 
 
 redesign of narrow nodes has been an absolute disaster. Everybody agrees with that and these are some of the symbols of an economy that's on the 
 
 verge of collapse.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
MADOWO: A third of Nigerians are unemployed and the economy has not been doing well the past eight years under President Muhammadu Buhari. That is 
 
 why so many people were looking for a change.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, huge questions you saw it there in the passion. One lady in particular with the country should be investing in things like health 
 
 care, and in education to help people but money's going in sort of fuel subsidies and other directions. We're going to be picking up on this with 
 
 the Nigerian Finance Minister shortly.
 
Just in the short term Larry; do we have any sense of how long this is going to take? And what are the big contenders saying about just having 
 
 some patience here and waiting for the result if anything?
 
MADOWO: It might be a few more days until we know who the next President of Nigeria will be because they've only announced 3, 4 states right now? 
 
 Nigeria has 36 States and Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. So might be into tomorrow, the day after, until we get a good as a better sense of who 
 
 will be the leader.
 
The 3 main contenders have been mostly silent, no significant statements, because they're waiting to see. I think more results until they determine 
 
 whether or not they're winning or losing and what do they need to tell their supporters. But in the meantime, this is a common theme this chaotic 
 
 scenes, outside banks, people clamoring to access their own money in Africa's largest economy, Africa's most populous nation, and yet, so many 
 
 inconveniences, so much - troubles in Nigerian Pidgin.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes Larry, thanks for being there and helping us understand the people's frustration, reporting there from Lagos, thank you. Highly 
 
 unlikely that's Beijing's firm response to the U.S. Energy Department's assessment that the COVID-19 virus accidentally leaked from a lab in Wuhan.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAO NING, SPOKESWOMAN, CHINESE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS: The relevant party should stop stir frying the argument of a laboratory leak. Stop 
 
 vilifying China, and stop politicizing the issue of origin tracing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Sources telling CNN the Energy Department made the conclusion with "low confidence". Natasha Bertrand joins us now on this story. 
 
 Natasha, it may be made with low confidence, but it does now unite them with the FBI in saying the probable and likely origin of this virus was in 
 
 a lab in Wuhan.
 
It does set them perhaps against other agencies, though, that are saying differently or unwilling to conclude, what does this mean, and what 
 
 evidence do they have to support this?
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Well, that's the big question right now and just to take a step back, what the intelligence 
 
 community did recently? Were they provided an update to Congress about their investigation into the origins of the pandemic?
 
And in that broader update, there was a section from the Department of Energy that said that agency had essentially changed from undecided to this 
 
 assessment that it was the most likely explanation in their opinion that this likely leaked from a laboratory in Wuhan.
 
However important - up there, they said that they only had low confidence in that assessment that indicates that they did not have robust enough 
 
 intelligence to draw a more definitive conclusion or say that with more competence, right? So the Department of Energy joins the FBI in basically 
 
 concluding that the most likely explanation for what happened was that this came from a lab.
 
But still the big agencies here the big Intel agencies, for example, the CIA, they still do not believe they have enough information to say one way 
 
 or another. Whether this leaked from a lab or whether it came from an animal for example, the other leading theory being that this virus jumped 
 
 from an animal, say from the seafood market in Wuhan.
 
Now, it is important to note here that the Intelligence Community has made very clear that they do not believe that they can ever get a really 
 
 definitive explanation for this without the full cooperation of the Chinese government, right?
 
And so, what they have been saying repeatedly since 2021, when they released their first report on COVID origins is that without Beijing's 
 
 cooperation and without Scientists and Analysts on the ground able to study the source really of this outbreak. It is going to be extremely difficult 
 
 to ever find a definitive explanation for where this virus actually came from.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and it leaves the supposition. And that's what will happen and what is happening and I think millions of people and families who lost 
 
 loved ones and still deserve to know. Natasha Bertrand, thank you so much for that. To Ukraine now, at least two people died in a Russian drone 
 
 attack in the Western City of Khmelnytskyi.
 
This after Russia launched at least 14 drones; the Ukrainian Military says it shot down 11 of them, mostly near the capital Kyiv. Meanwhile, President 
 
 Zelenskyy fired one of his top Military Commanders, his reason for doing so has not yet been made clear. And here in the United States, the head of the 
 
 CIA confirming the possibility of China's lethal aid to Russia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILLIAM BURNS, CIA DIRECTOR: We're confident that Chinese leadership is considering the provision of lethal equipment. We also don't see that a 
 
 final decision has been made yet.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: This comes after. CNN reported on Friday that Beijing is considering sending drones and ammunition to Moscow.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Kylie Atwood joins us now with more. Kylie, good to have you with us! Profound implications on the battlefield and for geopolitical 
 
 relationships too but I think the messaging here seems to be key the United States is poignantly saying to China, look, we know what you're doing. And 
 
 we want you to think twice, it seems.
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: That's right and you heard CIA Director Bill Burns over the weekend, say that essentially, the goal 
 
 here is to deter China from going ahead with this decision and actually providing military lethal assistance to Russia to be used in Ukraine, 
 
 because what U.S. Officials have been saying is that final decision hasn't been made by Chinese leadership even though they are confident, as you 
 
 heard in that sound bite that they are considering it.
 
What the United States feels is that they could back away from it. And obviously, they believe that China should, as you said, there would be 
 
 battlefield implications here, because any additional military assistance for Russia could prolong this would.
 
And that is exactly what U.S. Officials don't want. So what they're doing is talking publicly about the costs that will be inflicted on China. If it 
 
 does go ahead with this, listen to what National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said on CBS on sorry, excuse me on CNN on Sunday, when speaking 
 
 about the cost that would be associated with this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: Beijing will have to make its own decisions about how it proceeds whether it provides military 
 
 assistance. But if it goes down that road, it will come at real cost to China. And I think China's leaders are weighing that as they make their 
 
 decisions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ATWOOD: And while they are not publicly detailing what those costs would be, we do know that privately they have been more detailed. U.S. Officials, 
 
 including Secretary of State Antony Blinken have had conversations with Chinese Officials in recent weeks and pretty much laid out what those costs 
 
 and consequences would be?
 
So it's a very tense moment right now, as we wait to watch to see what U.S. intelligence is gathering in terms of any final decision that has been made 
 
 from the Chinese side about providing this lethal assistance.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, that was going to be my next question is clearly it's not being made clear to the west what those consequences would be? But if those 
 
 discussions are being had directly with China behind the scenes, then at least everybody's on the same page. Kylie, great to have you with us, thank 
 
 you, Kylie Atwood there!
 
OK, let's head to Hong Kong now where four people have been charged in connection with the killing of model and influencer Abby Choi, including 
 
 her ex-husband and her former in laws. CNN's Kristie Lu Stout has more we warn you to the report contains graphic, details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A fashion model and mother brutally murdered in Hong Kong in a case that is sending shockwaves 
 
 through the usually safe city. 28-year-old Abby Choi was a well-known social media influencer with more than 100,000 followers on Instagram, who 
 
 just weeks ago appeared on the digital cover of a luxury magazine.
 
She was reported missing on Wednesday. On Friday, Police say pieces of her body were found in a refrigerator in the Northern Tai Po district of Hong 
 
 Kong. They also found a meat slicer and an electric saw. And later police discovered ahead ribs and hair in a soup pot.
 
ALAN CHUNG, HONG KONG POLICE SUPERINTENDENT: It's skull, with hair, OK and as I said unfortunately there's a hole on the right side rear of the skull. 
 
 So the pathologist believes that should be the fatal attack on the victim.
 
STOUT (voice over): Police arrested Abby Choi's ex-husband on suspicion of murder on Saturday. Police said they caught him at a Pier on the city's 
 
 Lantau Island.
 
STOUT (on camera): Murders and pours that choice ex-husband Alex Kwong appeared here at the Kowloon City Magistrate's Court on Monday, along with 
 
 his father and brother, they are all accused of murder. Kwong's mother also appeared in court. She is accused of obstructing the case, all 4 were 
 
 denied bail.
 
STOUT (voice over): Over the weekend, Authorities launched a massive search operation to track down the rest of the models remains. They deployed more 
 
 than 100 Police Officers including an abseil team and divers to search a cemetery and nearby catch water and the area of Tucano.
 
They're still looking for several body parts. A gruesome murder of this young woman in the spotlight who leaves behind 4 children, including 2 from 
 
 the ex-husband, who is now in custody, Kristie Lu Stout, CNN, Hong Kong
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: And coming up on "First Move", high inflation, weakening growth a physical cash crunch and a young and frustrated population. Nigeria's 
 
 next leader faces multiple challenges. The nation's Finance Minister joins us next to discuss.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move", Nigerians that anxiously waiting to find out who will lead the country after the hotly contested 
 
 presidential election over the weekend. Like many countries the last few years have brought on a number of challenges the pandemic volatile energy 
 
 prices and a currency at an all-time low.
 
Growth is also declining inflation is in double digits and there are widespread cash and gasoline shortages. But three front runners in the 
 
 election have all promised to fix Africa's largest economy. The question is what now is the best path forward? Joining us is Nigeria's Current Finance 
 
 Minister, Zainab Ahmed.
 
Finance Minister, great to have you on the show! Thank you so much for your time. I want to start by talking about the election, not the result, of 
 
 course. But just that there is a lot riding on this election that there's clearly frustration from people about the delays. Do you share their 
 
 frustration about some of the logistical challenges that we've seen?
 
ZAINAB AHMED, NIGERIAN FINANCE MINISTER: No Julia, I don't share that frustration. The elections were very peaceful, largely peaceful, there are 
 
 some pockets of challenges but that is to be expected in every election. There is no substitute streaming. The logistics for the Nigerian elections 
 
 is massive. We have 176,000 polling units and yesterday I was listening to some program on a national TV and a group was discussing the incidents that 
 
 have been reported.
 
So that there were a 135 incidents, affecting 135 polling units so there will always be incidents in elections. I think this one was more peaceful 
 
 has been more peaceful than even previous elections. And we're very positive that between today and tomorrow, the results coming on and we'll 
 
 know who the winners are?
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes and I think one of the biggest challenges, certainly that I've heard is just trust in general in institutions has been compromised by 
 
 the challenges that many nations. All nations have faced over the last three or four years in particular. What's your, the Government President 
 
 Buhari's message to those that are waiting about trust in the result?
 
AHMED: So President's message was very clear. Go on board the candidate that you want, the candidate that you feel will deliver what is best for 
 
 you and for the country, and that's what we hope will happen.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
AHMED: And these elections that have been quite free and fair so far. Nigeria, like most countries of the world have been faced with this - 
 
 prices from crashing Crude oil price Nikkei's of Nigeria to the COVID-19 pandemic to Ukraine war is surging crisis after crisis, one after the 
 
 other.
 
In fact, triple crisis at the same time, including climate crisis that we've also faced in Nigeria. So it's been very difficult times for the 
 
 country, but also very difficult times for the world. In general, I must say that President Buhari has done very well in terms of stabilizing the 
 
 economy and continuing to move forward despite the different crisis today.
 
Last week, I beg your pardon, we reported 2022 GDP report. And that's the ninth consecutive quarter of growth, a growth rate of 3.52 percent for Q4, 
 
 2022, an annual rate of 3.10 percent. Amongst the kind of challenges were living with that is a very impressive performance.
 
CHATTERLEY: I know you're talking about stability, though, it's I think it's natural for people to want more. We just had a Nigerian woman shown on 
 
 the show talking about needing better health care needing better education. There's only so much money to go around. And I think it's very easy for 
 
 people on the outside or outside of the country to write a list of what needs to happen.
 
But three of the things I think that that are most often pointed out, and you know them well. Fuel subsidies need to be cut, the exchange rate needs 
 
 unifying import FX restrictions need reducing or removing entirely. How do you achieve all of these things without seeing ordinary Nigerians revolt? 
 
 Reform is hard. How much of that can you tackle even between now and May?
 
AHMED: It's been a juggling act on for subsidy, the President is really determined to remove oil subsidy before he exits so that he's not leaving 
 
 the next administration, whichever one it is with that responsibility, because whenever you remove for a subsidy, there are consequences. So we 
 
 have to plan well enough to make sure that the hardships that will because is mitigated as much as possible, but we need to get rid of a subsidy. It's 
 
 been a drain on resources.
 
And I think people, at least all of the contestants, without exception, have said in different Fora that this needs to go because these are 
 
 resources that we could have invested in education or health. And we're holding on to subsidy that is just for consumption. And it's also a very 
 
 inefficient one so far.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes and I think one of the biggest challenges and I know President Buhari promised to tackle it was corruption, particularly in the 
 
 oil and gas sector, and the heartbreaking fact that as a result of all of these things, even when oil prices go up. The Nigerian people barely 
 
 benefit, which I know is one of the challenges too.
 
On that note, I read recently that the median age of the population is 18, that 60 percent of people are under 25. These people have, we hope, 50, 60, 
 
 70 years to live. What the ordinary Nigerians need to understand about their behavior, Finance Minister to help the country and help manage the 
 
 reforms that need to take place?
 
AHMED: I just hope people understand that these large populations that we have that are young are actually the best asset that we have in the country 
 
 today, because this young people are educated. They're technology savvy. What we need to do as governments present and incoming is to retool and 
 
 rescale them to take advantages of the innovation and technology.
 
That we live in today to enable them to have better job opportunities and also to work for themselves and set up their own businesses so the youth 
 
 population, we have out today, the greatest assets that we have in Nigeria.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes and we should be having a conversation about that, rather than talking about the challenges, which is another heartbreaking thing. 
 
 You know, one thing I noticed from your financial accounts, and I know you're going to try and bring this down as quickly as possible, but I 
 
 believe 80 percent of the government's revenues went to debt repayments.
 
Finance Minister, does there needs to be a bigger conversation about adjusting the debt responsibilities for Nigeria at this moment? And that's 
 
 not to negate responsibilities, but just to allow money to flow to the important things like education, climate change, and adaption finance. Does 
 
 the need to be having a conversation about --?
 
AHMED: So Julia the 80 percent of the debt, the 80 percent that you mentioned, is not the average for the year.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
AHMED: For 2022 the average is about 61, 62 percent that's the average for there and even at that it is high. So what we're doing is to increase our 
 
 revenue. And we've seen very good results coming out of that in 2021; our total revenue was 6 trillion Naira, 2022 will close at 10 trillion Naira.
 
So there has been a lot of effort and results coming out. And once we free ourselves of the burden of things like well, subsidy that is costing a lot, 
 
 then the numbers will change and the situation will improve coupled with all the fundamental works we've done to ensure consistent increase in 
 
 revenue profile.
 
We should be able to, within the medium term, come to a healthier level of debt service revenue measure. Our debt levels are still reasonable and 
 
 we're even when we bring in the ways and means of the Central Bank, what the legislature is currently working on, we're still going to be around 38 
 
 percent of GDP and that's still the healthiest level amongst countries within --.
 
CHATTERLEY: So it's about to say you compare that debt level to some of the nations in Europe or the United States, and it's fractional, but of course, 
 
 the debt service cost to your point is incredibly high. And Finance Minister, I think anybody listening to you will perhaps argue that you 
 
 don't feel like the job's finished yet.
 
And I don't want you to predict the election result because I knew that's very difficult. But if your party won this election, and you were asked, 
 
 would you stay on as Finance Minister and continue the job?
 
AHMED: Julia, I'm not in a position to answer this question right now.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, she says with a - smile.
 
AHMED: Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: What about leading the country one day? Would you consider that?
 
AHMED: I'm not sure about that. I'm not cut out to be a co politician. And I haven't been very much involved in playing the party politics. I've been 
 
 working largely in the technical space, trying to support the President and the team to enable to provide the funding and the enabling environment for 
 
 government to work with.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, focused on the job. More let you get back to it the Nigerian Finance Minister there, Zainab Ahmed, thank you so much for your 
 
 time.
 
AHMED: Thank you very much, Julia. Thanks.
 
CHATTERLEY: Thank you. OK, coming up after the break the EU and the U.K. and post Brexit talks to resolve a bit of a sticking point in the 
 
 separation but at what cost? That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move"! New York City is gearing up for what could be its first substantial snowfall of the year on Tuesday. I have 
 
 to say it's about time. All of us here are waiting at the white stuff snow that is nothing more exciting.
 
Wall Street on the board with some green stuff after a week that can only be called rough stuff, U.S. stocks coming off their worst losses of the 
 
 year with the tech sector getting hit the hardest all this because of the usual stuff and you know it well fears of a more aggressive Federal Reserve 
 
 famed investor.
 
Warren Buffett, however, it's still bullish, the Oracle of Omaha saying and he's just released annual newsletter that he has never bet against the U.S. 
 
 economy. And he says he's not ready to turn bearish now.
 
And in the meantime, plugged in progress is being celebrated in Barcelona today where the Mobile World Congress is underway. This year, a big battle 
 
 is brewing over who will pay their fair share for new tech rollouts.
 
Anna Stewart is at the conference and joins me now. Anna we should be honest, I was so excited to talk about ChatGPT and you said to me on 
 
 WhatsApp earlier - so December, that says everything. Well, if you're going to pick it up with big tech then Brussels or somewhere in Europe are the 
 
 best place to do it, in this case, Barcelona?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: It really is. This is where you should have these big fights. And this is one that's been brewing I think for many 
 
 months, but it was really launched last week with Terry Brettell EU Commissioner for the internal market, launching what they're calling a 
 
 consultation a 12 week consultation on fair share.
 
So this is a battle about who should pay for the future of high speed internet, which, after all, is going to underpin all the hot new 
 
 technologies you see around here, including AI and ChatGPT got it in there. But also, of course, Web 3, VR headsets, it's all very data hungry.
 
And the cost of the infrastructure that's needed to speed up the internet and keep it running all these technologies is vast, according to the GSMA, 
 
 which hosts this event and represents all the big telecoms $1.5 trillion is needed between now and 2030.
 
And telecom says they can't afford to foot the bill all by themselves. So the CEO of orange today was stood up on a keynote speech she said around 
 
 half of European mobile carriers will struggle to survive. They want to see other firms particularly those that stream content, the big tech firms also 
 
 help pay for that.
 
Now, of course, big techs are not like this at one bit at all. We've had a statement from Meta that says value flows both ways between telecoms 
 
 companies and content hosting platform. They say they already invest a lot to keep the stuffer online facilities streaming.
 
And they already see that they actually drive lots of content. And they are one of the key drivers for people taking out lots of contracts with mobile 
 
 phone companies with network companies for broadband and high speed internet.
 
So this is a battle I think that will run quite hotly for next 12 weeks. This is really the stage for the telecoms companies. So we're not really 
 
 seeing big tech here as much, but it's got 12 weeks to run, Julia.
 
CHATERELY: Yes, I can understand the argument though from big tech. If they pay this fee, then it arguably is Telecom operators charging both customers 
 
 and then the content providers for the same service.
 
My response to that will be hard luck. Anna what's it like there because obviously this is the first Mobile World Congress since we saw China 
 
 reopening. What kind of presence do they have in particular? What's the buzz?
 
STEWART: It's a really interesting one this year. It's definitely a lot busier than it was last year and 80,000 attendees expected. It's not as big 
 
 as it was pre-pandemic. And I wonder if it ever will be Chinese phone makers, like you said absolutely dominate Oneplus, Oppo, Xiaomi, Huawei and 
 
 Honor.
 
But what's really interesting is this used to be the place where the latest mobile phone handset was launched and all sorts of different phone makers. 
 
 That's not really the case anymore. Generally, they are launched with their own standalone events.
 
The Chinese phone makers are generally launching phones that they've already launched in China, but internationally. There were couples though 
 
 that caught my interest Oneplus have got new handset that's got blue lights around the back. It's kind of a cool design. It's a concept phone.
 
And the other was Motorola which has built on what was a trend for the last few years of foldable phones and it's built a - one so if you like the 
 
 screen sort of rolls round the back of your phone you can extend it.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
STEWART: So some interesting concepts of interesting designs. But really I think this year it's less about what's going on in the booth and what's 
 
 really going on that main stage all these big arguments between telecom and tech, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I'm just glad you're there and they haven't been replaced by some kind of AI bots and same for me. We're hanging on in there - thank 
 
 you so much. OK, coming up after the break, some trash talk with some very American lifting the lid on the startup trying to solve the climate crisis 
 
 one banana skin at a time, that's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Breaking news just into CNN we understand a deal has been reached between the United Kingdom and the European Union to overhaul the 
 
 Northern Ireland Brexit protocol. Ursula Von Der Leyen has been at Windsor Castle meeting with UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak. Nic Robertson is 
 
 following events from London. Nic, what more information do we have on this deal? And can you help my viewers understand once again, what this Brexit 
 
 protocol is?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Well, it is the last bit of big outstanding Brexit issue between the UK and the European Union. 
 
 And it's vital politically, for Prime Minister Rishi Sunak to pull this off to get the support of his party.
 
They haven't had a chance to look at it yet. He is expected to go to Parliament later today and explain it to Parliament. There's another big 
 
 part of this as well. And that question is how well this go does down in Northern Ireland, particularly with the pro-British Unionists community, 
 
 specifically the Democratic Unionist Party?
 
They're saying they're going to have to take some time to look at it. But the fact a deal has been done, and it's announced today after this meeting, 
 
 is a huge headline here in the UK. It's not without surprise.
 
Because there's been a lot of diplomatic effort to close the gaps, a lot of goodwill that appears expressed on both the part of the European Union on 
 
 the part of the British government to close the gaps and find accommodation to what's been a very, very vexing issue.
 
Which is essentially trade between the main part of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland across the Irish Sea? It's been a thorn in a political 
 
 thorn in the side for the Democratic Unionist Party that it appears that essentially a trade barrier has been created between them and the rest of 
 
 the United Kingdom.
 
So what they'll be looking for in this and they've got seven points to look for specific points that they want to make sure this new deal addresses 
 
 will be that they are part - they feel that there is free trade between Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
ROBERTSON: And also they feel that the European Court of Justice does not have an over writing control over the laws that people will live by in 
 
 Northern Ireland. Now there's that's going to be a very sort of delicate diplomatic language that is used to explain how this process will move 
 
 forward because the EU also has strong views on this.
 
But I think it is a measure of the compromises that have been made along the way, particularly over the past couple of months that this announcement 
 
 is coming today that a deal has been done. But it is likely to be a very thick, heavy legal document that's going to take some time for any of us, 
 
 specifically, the DUP to be able to go through and figure out where there may be things that they have issues with.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, big smiles there from Rishi Sunak, and Ursula Von Der Leyen. So the hope is that they've managed to achieve this. Nic, I think 
 
 some of the biggest complaints have been the sheer quantity of red tape involved with trade.
 
Obviously, what you've said here is that we're trying to prevent this sort of hard border for goods between Northern Ireland and Ireland without 
 
 having Northern Ireland feeling that they're in some way segregated or treated differently from the mainland United Kingdom logistically, this 
 
 still feels challenging?
 
ROBERTSON: It does. And we've had a few sorts of hints leaks from government over the past month or so that indicate where the deal might be 
 
 landing. And part of that, as indicated, you know, truckers who take goods between the Mainland UK and Northern Ireland goods that might be sold in 
 
 supermarkets in Belfast sandwiches, for example, that sort of go over on a daily basis.
 
Things like that have required a lot of paperwork to get them across the Irish Sea to Northern Ireland, which is part of the UK, that's at the root 
 
 of the complaint here. And if the trucks, for example, have had lots of different multiple loads on taking a variety of different goods.
 
Then that's required a huge amount of paperwork leading to hours and hours and hours of delay, crossing over the Irish Sea. That's been the concern. 
 
 So one approach appears to be this is what's been leaked. That there will be red and green channels, a green channel, if the goods are only going to 
 
 Northern Ireland, a red channel, if they're going to go to the European Union, across the border, go to Northern Ireland, then across the border 
 
 into the Republic of Ireland.
 
Of course, the European Union wants a good deal of scrutiny on that. And it's been speculated that possibly the EU will have access to real time 
 
 live data of what's on those trucks going into the red channel. But all this requires a level of trust.
 
And I think that's part of the accommodation that's been found over the past couple of years to this issue, that it required a greater degree of 
 
 trust between the UK and the EU that this type of mechanism could work.
 
But again, it's going to come down to the legal detail, specifically saying what can go and what can't go? For example, until now, if you wanted to 
 
 take your pet dog from UK Mainland to Northern Ireland, something used to be able to do before Brexit with freedom.
 
It's required is required to have the same level of checks and passes health checks and passes on your pet. As if you were taking that pet to the 
 
 European Union, yet you're only taking it to another part of the United Kingdom. So a lot of detail we've got to hear about yet.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, let's hope we've reached that point of trust that you were talking about and we need to understand the monitoring required on this 
 
 too. Nic, thank you, Nic Robertson there! More "First Move" after this stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move"! Their cultural scene is riding high in Dubai apparently the government there creating new opportunities 
 
 for global content creators as it's explained in today's "Think Big".
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They want to show you how to make a delicious - with pumpkin sauce.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Zara Abdalla is one of many creatives who've made a name for themselves in Dubai.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Universal Studio is a kitchen always in studio lights camera action.
 
ZARA ABDALLA, FOOD BLOGGER: Pretty much it pretty much.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: In 2020 she was one of 70,000 people working in the city's creative field. A number Dubai wants to double by 2025 as part of a 
 
 new strategy designed to diversify its economy.
 
HALA BADRI, DIRECTOR GENERAL DUBAI CULTURE AND ARTS AUTHORITY: The ultimate goal for Dubai is to create this pool of talent make sure that this talent 
 
 is educated has everything that it requires to run its business and then this transforms into healthy businesses that in the future will actually 
 
 contribute positively to our economy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The creative economy is one of the world's fastest growing sectors. In 2022 the United Nations reported that it accounts for 
 
 3.1 percent of global GDP. Recognizing this potential Dubai's new policy introduced a special cultural golden visa to grant those like Zara long 
 
 term residency to cultivate their careers in the Emirates.
 
BADRI: The golden visa allows you security. It allows you to stay within the city for 10 years. It ensures sustainability for your business.
 
ABDALLA: I always felt like this is a transitionary city and after we got the golden visa, I truly feel that Dubai is home.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: To replicate that feeling of home for those abroad this new scheme also helps establish new hubs to entice foreign talent and 
 
 investment. The industrial area of our crews, for example, is being revamped.
 
BADRI: When we create a platform like Al Gore's creative zone that allows people to come and create it allows for jobs in the manufacturing sector.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: One entrepreneur drawn in by this growing artistic community is Kwame Mintah as the Co-Founder of EFIE Gallery in - he sees 
 
 firsthand how the city's action plan is changing the world's perception of Dubai.
 
KWAME MINTAH, CO-FOUNDER, EFIE GALLERY: It's like a vehicle. So the guy adds to the vehicle between artists and the creative economy here in Dubai. 
 
 When an artist wants to become international previously, they only focus to go to Europe or to go to America. But now the Middle East has really opened 
 
 up its areas and its landscape as a destination artist want to exhibit in.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: As the city works to raise its creative sectors GDP contribution to 5 percent by 2025 Dubai based creators like Zara can only 
 
 benefit from the policies turning the Emirate into an international hub for creativity.
 
ABDALLA: It is giving us the space to thrive and feel like you are part of the tapestry. It's really exciting to see everyone celebrated from the 
 
 doctors and lawyers and entrepreneurs to the students and artists and the people who traditionally wouldn't have been celebrated in this part of the 
 
 world.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: We've seen how Russia's war on Ukraine has forced millions to flee the country and displaced others within its borders. But pets and 
 
 animals have also been left homeless. And one Ukrainian girl is doing her best to make sure they don't go hungry as CNN's Michael Holmes reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): In the wreckage of this bombed out apartment block in Borodianka there are signs 
 
 of the lives once lived here. Exposed rooms where families once gathered before Russian bombs reduced their homes to rubble. Most of the people have 
 
 long since gone. But 11 year old Veronika says she regularly returns to her former neighborhood.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
VERONIKA KRASEVYCH, 11 YEARS OLD: Our apartment was over there on the ninth floor.
 
HOLMES (voice over): Veronika says she can still see the shell of her former home but that's not why she comes back.
 
KRASEVYCH: I used to come here to search for my cat. I wanted to feed it and I saw all the other cats here. I felt sorry for them and now I come 
 
 here regularly to feed them.
 
HOLMES (voice over): The strays per welcome as she doles out food in what used to be a playground. Veronika says she did eventually find her cat, but 
 
 the time outside had changed him and he now prefers the wildlife.
 
So instead of one pet, she takes care of him and many other cats in the area, who like humans, have learned to adapt to life during war. Veronika's 
 
 mother came with her on this feeding session looking up at her old flat she chokes back a motion thinking how much has changed in just a year.
 
With a pat on the head they say goodbye to one of the regulars. Veronika says she'd liked to take the cats with her but for now these arrangement 
 
 survivors helping survivors will have to do Michael Holmes, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, a historic winter storm is causing havoc across the United States more than six feet of snow falling in parts of Southern California 
 
 hurricane force winds whipping up blinding dust storms in Texas, and powerful tornadoes ripping through Oklahoma and Kansas.
 
This is the scene in Norman just south of Oklahoma City where a tornado touchdown. Police and firefighters are searching through the wreckage this 
 
 morning. They say at least 12 people are hurt but no reported deaths. Just take a listen to this woman who was inside her home with her family when 
 
 the tornado struck.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FRANCES TABLER, RESCUED FROM HOME AFTER BEING TRAPPED: Before I can even blink I could hear the wind coming all the sudden all the back windows with 
 
 the kids' bedrooms are. I could hear him just crashing busting out.
 
And I got up and then the wind just threw me back and I'm screaming it was like a blizzard inside the house with all the debris flying. And I was 
 
 screaming for my kids because they were in their bedrooms. I didn't know ready thing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Wow! And Ed Lavandera has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A massive storm system barreled through the Central Plains Sunday night.
 
AARON JAYJACK, STORM CHASER: So traditionally the southern plains in Tornado Alley if you will, doesn't really start to come alive with these 
 
 tornadoes and these severe weather outbreaks until maybe March especially April and May that's the you know peak tornadoes severe season here in the 
 
 Southern Plains but you know so this is a quite an early wakeup call
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): Multiple tornadoes touched down in the region as well in Norman, Oklahoma, a tornado caused downed power lines and road 
 
 closures.
 
MICHAEL ARMSTRONG, REPORTE, KOCO: This is terrible to have this tornado going through Norman like this. It's just past 48 in Lindsey moving up to 
 
 the Northeast and we're going to try to get back on I-40 and get out ahead but again, we're going as fast as we can't. That is not good. Right there 
 
 in the west side of Thunderbird guys oh, it's getting even stronger.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): The storm ripped roofs off homes and damaged cars.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A lot of real strong wind I was standing out in the garage. My wife went to the neighbor's to get in the shelter. Wooden debris 
 
 started flying and hitting things. So I jumped in the backseat of a car in the garage real quick.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): Two tornadoes were reported in Kansas on Sunday, leaving homes the area destroyed. Winds in the triple digits were felt the 
 
 highest in Memphis, Texas, where winds hit a staggering 114 miles per hour the equivalent of a category three hurricane.
 
In Lubbock, Texas, a dust storm rolled through leaving visibility in the area to less than a mile. And in Albuquerque, New Mexico winds top over 70 
 
 miles per hour leaving overturn trees and businesses damaged.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm in shock you know but because we love our restaurant we love our work.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Decimated downers with this wind I haven't seen anything like this for the 20 plus years that I've been living here.
 
LAVANDERA (voice over): This storm system started in California where parts of Southern California saw a rare storm that dumped massive amounts of snow 
 
 in the area. Huge snow totals were seen throughout the region, including Mountain High which recorded 93 inches of snow through Sunday morning.
 
Rain was dumped on other parts of California causing flooding and leaving cars stranded. California firefighters were seeing rescuing this driver by 
 
 helicopter as flood waters continue to raise. The storm left the ground so eroded that this RV fell into the Valencia River.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was just kind of afraid I don't have to evacuate I think that's worse.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, and finally on "First Move", it's time to make the "First Move" and pucker up. A new device from China could be a huge bonus for 
 
 people in long distance relationships. It allows people to kiss each other remotely using the internet. Yes, you heard me right.
 
By that I mean it has all sorts of sensors and moves around to replicate a kiss, which includes smooching thousands apparently, and apparently it only 
 
 costs $41 how much? But you do of course need to choose your moments.
 
I'm not sure you want to be seen doing this on public transport or maybe you would who know? That's it for the show. If you've missed any of our 
 
 interviews today they will be on my Twitter and Instagram pages you can search for @jchatterleycnn. In the meantime, "Connect the World" with Becky 
 
 Anderson is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END