Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Biden On Putin's Latest Move: "Big Mistake"; Putin Commits To Strengthening Russia's Nuclear Triad; Russia And China Pledge To Strengthen Relationship. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired February 23, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:33]
 
ANNA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. Live from Hong Kong. I'm Anna Coren and this is CNN NEWSROOM.
 
Well, just ahead. Big mistake. Joe Biden's Frank words about Vladimir Putin's latest moves.
 
The Palestinians call it a massacre. The Israelis, a counterterrorism operation. It was the deadliest Israeli raid in the West Bank since the Second Intifada more than two decades ago.
 
And snow in the desert. A winter weather warning for Los Angeles. 800,000 homes and businesses already without power. The bizarre coast to coast storm barreling across the United States.
 
We begin this hour in Russia where President Vladimir Putin appears to be putting an increased emphasis on his country's nuclear forces. In a speech marking Fatherland Day, Mr. Putin committed to strengthening Russia's nuclear triad. A military force structure capable of launching three types of nuclear weapons. These leader's comments coming after he announced Russia would be suspending its participation in a nuclear arms control treaty with Washington. Here's how the U.S. president reacted to that.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID MUIR, ABC WORLD NEWS ANCHOR: What's your message to Putin on that?
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: It's a big mistake to do that. Not very responsible. And -- but I don't read into that, that he's thinking of using nuclear weapons or anything like that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Well, Mr. Biden making those comments before heading back to Washington following a visit to Kyiv and Warsaw on a trip designed to strengthen support for Ukraine almost exactly one year after Russia's invasion. On Wednesday, Mr. Biden met with NATO Secretary General and the group known as the Bucharest Nine from the eastern part of the NATO alliance.
 
Mr. Biden made clear that the U.S. is committed to defend "Literally every inch of NATO territory."
 
The leaders also reaffirmed their unwavering support for Ukraine and underscored their shared commitment to stand with the Ukrainian people.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: As NATO's eastern flank, you're the front lines of our collective defense, and you know better than anyone what's at stake in this conflict, not just for Ukraine, but for the freedom of democracies throughout Europe and around the world.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Well, cities and towns across Ukraine are stepping up security measures in advance of the first anniversary of Russia's invasion. The mayor of Kharkiv says no one knows if Russia will intensify its attacks. But he says people who are afraid may work remotely.
 
The distribution of humanitarian aid will be limited in the Kherson region.
 
And Ukraine's foreign minister says the country's troops are only defending their homeland.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DMYTRO KULEBA, FOREIGN MINISTER OF UKRAINE: There's no other country in the world that wants peace as much as Ukraine does. We never wanted war. We never planned to attack anyone. Our troops do not stand on anyone else's land. We exercise our legitimate right to self-defense and do it pretty effectively. We know what we're fighting for. We're defending our land, our families and our homes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NEWTON: Well, CNN correspondents are following all the developments. Melissa Bell is standing by in Kyiv and Clare Sebastian is live for us in London. Melissa, let's start with you. As we heard from Kharkiv's mayor. Preparations are being made as they anticipate further attacks to mark the one-year anniversary. Does intelligence suggest that the Russian onslaught will intensify over the coming days?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN PARIS CORRESPONDENT: It does. Ukrainian authorities and specifically on Volodymyr Zelenskyy had said earlier this month that they expect there to be some sort of action symbolic perhaps, but certainly something to coincide with this -- the one-year anniversary that is of course tomorrow. And so, you're seeing in cities like Kherson and the Kherson region from today through the 25th. Specific measures being taken. Bear in mind of course that it has never really stopped. When you look around the Kherson region, there have been ongoing attacks along the west bank of the Dnieper. Authorities expect that to continue. You mentioned also Kharkiv so close to the Russian border. These are areas that continue to be under huge stress.
 <br>[02:05:09]
 
The fear that that there could be that sort of symbolic action, of course, leading to those kinds of measures. As you mentioned, people being encouraged or told that they can stay away from home if they're worried. What will remain open are those invisibility -- invincibility points, and so, where people can go, get warm, charge their phones, and continue to work 24 hours a day, so that people can at least get something.
 
What we are seeing here in Kyiv as well today is continued support for the counteroffensive is in the shape of the Spanish Prime Minister on a surprise visit. Just after midnight announced -- that it would be announcing sending six tanks to Ukraine changing its position of backing it only defensively and moving on to the offensive. Anna.
 
NEWTON: Clare, if I can now turn to you. Vladimir Putin held a rally in front of tens of thousands of cheering fans in Moscow. The optics obviously showed confidence and public support for his war. Now Putin is talking again about modernizing the country's nuclear weapons. What more can you tell us?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, this is something that will play well at home just like that rally that we saw in Moscow yesterday, Anna. He is essentially posturing it seems. We don't have any reports from Western intelligence suggesting that any kind of use of a nuclear weapon by Russia is imminent. And frankly, he's committing to something they have been committing to for the last decades, modernizing their Soviet era, nuclear weapons.
 
But look, it was interesting, for example, that he mentioned putting the Sarmat missile system into combat duty this year. That is something that two U.S. officials have told us that Russia tested this week and that test, they think failed. So, that was one thing to note. But this is all interesting coming up to the anniversary of the war in Ukraine that we've seen this nuclear saber rattling by Russia increase.
 
We saw them withdraw or suspend their participation from the New START treaty that last vestige of the sort of post-Cold War, nuclear arms reduction architecture with the United States. Though they did say that they are going to stick to the numerical limits on weapons and this decision is reversible in the words of the foreign ministry. That failed test of the ICBM, according to U.S. officials, another part of this.
 
And now these comments on this day, which is a holiday in Russia, Defender of the Fatherland Day, sort of reiterating that position. Some will say it points to a limited amount of options for Putin, but officials in Russia are looking at this as essentially a guarantee of Russia's success. You can't defeat a nuclear power they've been saying, Anna.
 
COREN: Clare Sebastian in London, Melissa Bell in Kyiv, many thanks to you both.
 
Russia and China are pledging to strengthen their relationship. China's top diplomat Wang Yi was in Moscow on Wednesday for talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin. He also met with the Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Yi's visit to Moscow is widely seen as a precursor to a meeting between Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping within the next few months.
 
Fabrice Pothier is the former director of policy planning at NATO. Now CEO of the political consultancy firm, Russ Musen Group. He joins me now from Santander in Spain. Great to see you, Fabrice. Let's start with Putin's meeting with China's top diplomat. They certainly presented a united front. It comes after the release of American intelligence suggesting that Putin is seeking arms and technology from Beijing.
 
But also, this week, you have China and Russia naval ships holding drills off the coast of South Africa. I mean, how do you read these developments?
 
FABRICE POTHIER, FORMER DIRECTOR OF POLICY PLANNING, NATO: Well, first, I think this is part of the U.S. administration policy of using, in a way in a preemptive way intelligence data to try to preempt possible decisions of developments from adversaries like Russia and China. We've seen that before the Ukrainian -- before the Russian lost the war in Ukraine. But we've also seen that with China at the beginning of the war when the U.S. made sure to try to draw a red line in terms of support that the Chinese could offer to the Russia.
 
So, I think this is part of the same approach. But there is a reason to be concerned because indeed, if China were to provide some sort of military support to Russia, Russia would gain extra strategic depth in its industry and therefore to supply its forces, especially its artillery forces to Ukraine. It won't necessarily be the game changer in the war in Ukraine, but it will certainly make it longer.
 
COREN: And then there's the other narrative that she is planning to visit Putin in the next few months potentially trying to broker a peace deal. Do you believe that's a possibility?
 
POTHIER: I think you have to see obviously what the Chinese want to propose, but it should be taken with a lot of skepticism given how Xi Jinping has been positioned in China on the war which is officially they claim some sort of neutrality.
 <br>[02:10:06]
 
But in fact, they clearly show especially in the Global South, a very close alignment with the Russian narrative saying this is a war triggered by NATO. This is the West going after us. So, China has been really, very closely aligned with Russia on this. However, I think what's important to underline. Russia here is a junior partner. And every month that Russia is under Western sanction, the Russian economy is going to become more primitive and more dependent on China.
 
So, this is a very asymmetric relationship that China is trying to take advantage of, without probably crossing some red line in terms of confrontation with the United States.
 
COREN: Fabrice says, we know the U.S. President Joe Biden met with NATO leaders in Warsaw after his visit to Kyiv reaffirming America's commitment to its allies. I mean, how would you sum up Joe Biden's three-day visit to Europe and his message to both his allies and also to Russia?
 
POTHIER: I think it was a courageous tool, especially he surprised visit to Kyiv which I understand was the first time a U.S. president was visiting a country without U.S. Air Force coverage. It was a very symbolic show of commitment of the -- not only the U.S. president but the U.S. as a whole commitment to Ukraine's defense. And of course, the meeting yesterday with the benign leaders was a way to show that the commitment also and especially is with those NATO countries at the frontline of this war.
 
So, I think the discussion was very much about Ukraine, but also about the eastern flank, and to what extent the U.S. was going to commit to more equipment and more presents by the venue summit in the summer of this year.
 
COREN: Fabrice Pothier, we certainly appreciate your insight. Thank you for putting that into context for us. Thank you.
 
Well, it's just after 9:00 a.m. in the Palestinian territory of Gaza which has been hit with new airstrikes. Israel says it targeted a weapons manufacturing site and a military compound belonging to the militant group Hamas.
 
A few hours earlier, the Israeli military said six rockets were fired at Israel from Gaza. Well, most were intercepted, one fell in an open area. So far there's been no claim of responsibility. 
 
But that rocket fire appears to be in retaliation for a lethal Israeli military raid targeting Palestinian militants in the West Bank. 
 
Well, journalist Elliott Gotkine joins us now from Jerusalem. Elliott, this is -- the second day time raid in less than a month ending in the deaths of unarmed Palestinians, they alleged were unarmed. Israeli military I guess usually conducts night operations. Why are they doing this during the day and risking further escalation?
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You're absolutely right, Anna. Daytime raids are incredibly rare for the Israeli security forces because one, there are many more civilians around and two, there's obviously more risk to their own soldiers. This was carried out according to the Israeli security forces. This was carried out in the daytime because of -- in its words, specific intelligence, indicating an imminent attack by Palestinian militants.
 
Now Israel says that it was targeting three militants in particular. They said they surrounded the house, ask them to surrender. They refused a gun battle ensued. The result of that is those three militants were killed. And in total, 11 Palestinians were killed as a result of that gun battle in Nablus yesterday. And more than 100 Palestinians, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health, were injured. Some of them critically.
 
And as a result of that raid, we've seen condemnation from Saudi Arabia, from the Egyptians, Jordanians and the Emiratis. And we've also had a statement from the U.S. State Department saying that it's extremely concerned by the levels of violence in Israel and the West Bank. And, of course, as a result or following that raid by Israeli security forces on Wednesday, we saw those rockets launched from the Gaza Strip towards Israel and then Israel retaliating with those airstrikes.
 
And we've also heard from the militants of Islamic Jihad, for example, warning about a potential explosion and escalation if Israel continues to carry out those raids. But Israel -- and of course, the current government that Israel has, was partly elected on promises to do a better job of protecting Israel from attacks. And it would seem, as we've seen in previous raids by Israeli security forces seeking militants that although this is a red daytime raid, this certainly is very unlikely to be the last kind of raid that we see. And inevitably There will be more violence to come. Anna?
 
COREN: Elliott Gotkine joining us from Jerusalem. Many thanks for the update.
 <br>[02:15:09]
 
Well, a massive winter storm has millions of Americans on alert as it sweeps the country. More than 800,000 customers and states across the nation are without power. And more than 1700 flights were canceled Wednesday because of heavy winds, snow and ice. More than 500 have been canceled today so far. Temperatures were so cold in Iowa. A layer of ice froze over this car window. Well, parts of California, so rare snow as well. The state was even under a blizzard warning for parts of Wednesday.
 
Meteorologists Britley Ritz joins us now from Atlanta with more. And Britley, this is extremely uncommon considering we're at the end of end of February.
 
BRITLEY RITZ, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, absolutely. No, it's still winter. We are really seeing some of these areas like Southern California that are under blizzard warnings for the first time in decades since, like, I believe it was 1989, the last blizzard warning was issued from the National Weather Service office out of L.A. And now here we are again with that and blizzard warnings still in effect across parts of the northern plains and upper Midwest.
 
Nearly 60 million people under some sort of winter weather alert. Ice storm warnings too by the way in effect for parts of the Great Lakes where we're still dealing with that early, early morning hours on your Thursday across the Great Lakes back into the upper Midwest dealing with some of the heaviest snow now. Expect another eight to 10 inches of snow on top of what we've already picked up. And this is all moving into New England and parts of the Mid-Atlantic today and tomorrow. Snowfall totals preliminary. We are adding on to what we've already picked up. Battle Lake Wyoming, 48 inches. Ann Arbor, point-six inches of ice. That's crippling. Travel not advised across the Great Lakes. You'll see the pink popping once again holding on to that freezing rain threat today across the Great Lakes.
 
But then moving into New England as we roll into the evening and into your Friday still holding on to your snow chances at that point. Expected an additional six to eight inches of snowfall today across the Great Lakes and back into the upper Midwest, Anna. It is not over yet.
 
COREN: Not by a longshot. Britley Ritz, it's good to see you. Many thanks.
 
Still ahead, Turkey is promising to protect its people better after this month's deadly earthquake. The government reveals new plans and cracks down on unsafe housing. A live report from Turkey when we return.
 
Plus, Poland's president speaks exclusively with CNN's Christiane Amanpour. His thoughts on President Biden, Vladimir Putin and the key to winning the war in Ukraine.
 
And next three weeks after a toxic train wreck in Iowa, anger and frustration and mounting over the lack of clear answers.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIM STEWART, EAST PALESTINE, OHIO RESIDENT: I'm angry. I'm angry about this. I don't feel safe in this town now. You took that away from me. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:20:12]
 
COREN: Welcome back. U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg heads to East Palestine, Ohio on Thursday to see for himself the calamitous train derailment that has up ended this small community. He says it will coincide with the release of a preliminary report by the National Transportation Safety Board. The train was carrying multiple cars of hazardous chemicals that blanketed the area with toxic smoke. Buttigieg will no doubt hear firsthand from angry and confused residents.
 
Some of whom voiced their fears about health and safety at a CNN town hall on Wednesday night.
 
One longtime resident didn't hold back as he addressed Alan Shaw, the head of Norfolk Southern Railroad, the company responsible for the train.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) STEWART: I'm angry. I'm angry about this. I lived in East Palestine for 65 years now. That's my home. My grandmother came from Germany. She lived in Palestine. My dad grew up there. My family's grown up there now. And it is disgusting that we're just lost it. I live in a house that's probably the closest of any of these. And it's a chain and this is probably the next closest one. And our houses, you know, it's been inspected. It's been this, it's been that. I'm afraid to put my dog out just to pee.
 
I mean, he's already this tall. So, you know, I don't feel safe in this town now. You took it away from me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: We sure apologize for the trauma inflicted on the town and promised his company would do all it could to make the community whole again. Well, besides paying for the cleanup Shaw says Norfolk Southern has pledged nearly $7 million in direct financial assistance to residents, with another million dollars earmarked for a Community Assistance Fund.
 
More than two weeks since the massive earthquake and there is urgent need for more tents and temporary housing for people in Turkey and Syria. The Turkish government says they have already given out more than 300,000 tents as of Wednesday and more are on the way. Nearly 900,000 people in Turkey are living right now in camps like this one after losing their homes in the quake.
 
The U.N. says the need for shelter will likely get worse before it gets better. On Wednesday, the death toll passed 49,000 across both Turkey and Syria.
 
Well, CNN's Nada Bashir joins us now from the Turkish port city of Iskenderun. And Nada, this emergency has entered its third week. Describe to us the situation on the ground where you are and this aid getting to the people who so desperately need it.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER: Well, look, Anna, there is a real sense of need, urgent need here in Iskenderun. We're in the Hatay Province which was among the hardest hit provinces by that earthquake too. So, you can see the destruction around me. This street -- I mean, these buildings are completely destroyed and across the city and nearby Antakya which was really at the epicenter of that initial earthquake as well as the aftershock which we saw on Monday. 
 
Some of these buildings are still standing, but they are simply too unsafe to return to. We've seen some residents gathering around the area. You can see behind me, some of these apartment blocks are still standing. Their belongings, their livelihood, possessions are all in there. But they can't get them and many of them are now living in these tent cities. And in fact, there is an IDP camp just across the road from where we are now.
 
We spoke to a number of those living there at this point. And they told us that they don't have enough. They don't have enough tents. Many of them are living on the street. And as you said there, the Turkish Government has conceded that more needs to be done. We heard yesterday from the Turkish presidential spokesperson Ibrahim Kalin speaking to CNN. He conceded that there needs to be a lot more work to support those impacted by the earthquake but said that the government is working around the clock as are all the government ministries to provide that support.
 
They're already planning to build some 200,000 new -- supposedly earthquake resistant buildings in the coming year. But just looking at the scale of the destruction, it is absolutely immense. And the scale of the need is also immense. There are numerous IDP camps now set up across Southeast Turkey. Some of them more robustly prepared than others. And, you know, we have been speaking to families who say they are still almost three weeks on now sleeping on the street in the cold with their children.
 
There has been called for further support. The Turkish government says they're sending more tents, the United Nations says there needs to be more support. But of course, as you said there, it is going to take a long time before this situation gets better. Anna?
 <br>[02:25:00]
 
COREN: Nada Bashir, we certainly appreciate you bringing us that report from Turkey. Many thanks.
 
A search and rescue mission is underway in Chian where at least 53 people are believed to be trapped in a collapsed coal mine. Official say two people were killed and six others injured in the collapse that happened Wednesday. Crews suspended their search due to a landslide, but say they are mapping out a plan to resume their work.
 
Still to come. Vladimir Putin praises Russian fighters while looking to boost public support for the war in Ukraine. More on his comments from a Moscow rally that's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
COREN: Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke before a crowd of thousands at a patriotic rally in Moscow that looked to drum up support for the ongoing fight in Ukraine as it's about to enter a second year. CNN's Fred Pleitgen has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Putin Russian leader Vladimir Putin rallying his nation for a tough battle. At a massive event in Moscow Putin's message to the crowd, Russian troops in Ukraine are fighting for Russia's survival.
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): There is a battle going on for our historical borders for our people. It is led by the same courageous fighters who are standing here. They fight heroically, courageously bravely. We are proud of them. Three chairs in their honor.
 
PLEITGEN: The concert in Moscow's Luzhniki Stadium on the eve of the one-year anniversary of the war in Ukraine with Putin himself, leading the rallying call.
 
For those attending, patriotism is the main message.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I adore Vladimir Vladimirovich. I'm prepared to support him with everything I've got.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator):  The whole of Europe and the West is helping Ukraine, so of course, it's taking a long time. But we will demilitarize Europe and U.S. too.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): So, but you might need my understanding is we are fighting for our interests there. Regrettably, it is not us who decide what those interests are.
 
PLEITGEN: Russian forces have made little progress on the battlefield in recent months, with both Russia and Ukraine sustaining heavy losses. As the U.S. believes Russia might be turning to China for military supplies, Putin reaffirming his commitment to relations with Beijing in a meeting with China's top diplomat Wang Yi.
 <br>[02:30:02]
 
PUTIN (through translator): Russian-Chinese relations are developing just as we planned in previous years. Everything is moving forward developing and we are reaching new milestones.
 
PLEITGEN: China has brushed off the U.S. has concerns that Beijing might be contemplating supplying arms to the Kremlin's war effort, taking a swipe at the Biden administration.
 
WANG YI, SENIOR CHINESE DIPLOMAT (through translator): We would like to emphasize once again, that the comprehensive strategic partnership between Russia and China has never been directed against the third party. And is certainly not subject to interference and provocation by any third party.
 
PLEITGEN: While Beijing says it wants a political solution, Vladimir Putin is drumming up support for his military operation, trying hard to keep the Russian population motivated for a battle he deems existential. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Moscow.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANA COREN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Poland's President is praising his U.S. counterpart for his leadership on Ukraine and strong commitment to the NATO alliance. CNN's Christiane Amanpour spoke exclusively with Andrzej Duda in Warsaw.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: How significant is this moment for you? Before President Biden arrived, you said the speech, the meeting would be of global significance and dimensions.
 
ANDRZEJ DUDA, POLISH PRESIDENT (through translator): So, let me start by saying that these two days today and yesterday, this surprising presence of President Joe Biden in Kyiv, it sends an incredibly powerful signal. A political and strategic signal, it is a demonstration of strength of the United States. Indeed, it is like saying that the American leader who as a matter of fact, as the leader of the free world, is able to travel even when war is raging, even to a place where there is a potential danger, he is not afraid, because the United States is strong enough to protect him.
 
That is number one, and number two, he was there, and today he is in Warsaw. He gives his speech to the whole world because we have to say it like there's this is that speech by the President of the United States. As I said, the leader of the free world, it is a speech addressed to the whole world. And he sends a signal of the defense of the free world, of the defense of NATO, of the defense of every inch of the territory, as the President said today. So, to ask the polls, this American signal, this allied signal, not only within NATO that first of all, a signal sent by the greatest superpower in the world, a signal sent by our friend and ally today is so significant.
 
AMANPOUR: So, the United States and all E.U. allies have stood united, and the President today said that Vladimir Putin, did not think that you would all remain united, you remain so strong and that Kyiv, Ukraine would still remain free. What more needs to be done all the weapons systems that you've been sending, what more needs to be done, to ensure what you say is Ukraine's victory in this war?
 
DUDA (through translator): The difference of potentials between Ukraine and Russia is huge and obvious, everybody actually expected that it would take 72 hours at the most. the defense of Ukraine and after 72 hours, Ukraine would fall it would be captured by Russia. On the 23rd of February 2022. I was in Kyiv, I talked to Volodymyr Zelenskyy, just a couple of hours before the Russian invasion. And at the last moment, actually, we made it to the Polish border because we traveled by car back then. So, across the border and right after that Russian missiles struck. So, I remember when I said goodbye to Volodymyr, Volodymyr told me Andrzej, I do not know whether we would see each other again.
 
That was a very powerful moment, a moving moment. And then he told me if Putin thinks that he would control Ukraine, conquer Ukraine, just as they used to -- as they did with Crimea in 2014, then he is mistaken. We have got eight years of combat experience and thousands of people who were fighting on the front. We are going to fight till the end, till the drop and that is what has happened, and they're fighting until today. So, first of all, what they need is weapons because the difference is huge. In terms of quantity, what Russians have got today is old equipment, very old equipment. They are taking tanks from 1960s from their stocks, but they have those tanks and they're crushing.
 
They've got disadvantage of steel of the mesh, and they are crushing Ukrainians. They're 140 million Russians and less than 14 million Ukrainians. So, this shows you the mobilization potential of Russia and the mobilization potential of Ukraine. So, it's enough to look at these clear data to understand that under normal circumstances unless Ukraine gets support, it has no chance of defending itself on its own against Russia. That is why Ukraine needs this support, it's indispensable. What kind of support can we offer to Ukraine as allies? What the United States is doing, what we are doing as Poland as well, we have donated to Ukraine 300 tanks from our stocks.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
Right now, we are providing more tanks to Ukraine. At this moment we are sending the state-of-the-art tanks that we have, Leopard tanks. We are providing a company of Leopard tanks. We have organized and light collections, so to speak of tanks very green. This was what I was requested to do by Volodymyr. So, when skills of the Prime Minister of Ukraine ask for that. So, we initiated that today. The key to make sure that Ukraine defends itself against Russia is modern weapons. So, that Ukrainian soldiers can efficiently fight, so, that they have means to push Russians with.
 
AMANPOUR: Even fighter jets?
 
DUDA (through translator): If there is such a need, of course, yes, we still have got MIG-29. Ukrainian pilots are prepared to operate them today. The question is, when will Ukrainian pilots be ready to fly modern aircraft at NATO standards, such as F-16 or Mirage, French planes, or U.E. fighters, or any other type of modern machine? This is a question mark, when the Ukrainian pilots will be ready to do that? Because the training of the pilot is much more complicated and much longer than the training for a tanker. This is the way it is. So, here is a question mark, when will Ukraine be ready with its own force to use such planes? 
 
AMANPOUR: I realized that you're all sort of holding off on that. But I want to ask you about the Leopard tanks, which you were very vocal in unleashing from Germany. And yet, this weekend at the Munich Security Conference, Chancellor Scholz told me that now Germany has to try to persuade you all with your Leopard tanks, to actually send them to Ukraine. And there's been some slowness about this. When will your Leopard tanks get to Ukraine?
 
DUDA (through translator): That we are ready to send our tanks, tanks that are ready to be sent. Right now, we are training in Poland, Ukrainian soldiers, so that they are able to operate those tanks. I'm slightly surprised by the answer that Chancellor Scholz gave you. I hope that they are also ready with their Leopards because honestly, we have got serious problems with getting spare parts to tanks. Spare parts from Germany, it's not only us, these problems are quite common. Other countries also have problems with Leopards because Germans have got a serious problem with preventing spare parts. We didn't understand it this situation but that's the way it is.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
COREN: Well, that was Polish President Andrzej Duda, speaking to Christiane Amanpour. Well, three candidates now hoping to become the next president of Nigeria. We'll explain, why many young voters are being drawn to one candidate in particular. A preview of Saturday's election is just a hit.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) When Nigerians head to the polls Saturday to choose a new president. For latest opinion surveys show three main candidates and locked a tight race. On Wednesday, all three candidates signed a peace pledge aimed at dissuading post-election unrest, no matter who wins. We get more now from CNN's Stephanie Busari, in Lagos.
 <br>[02:40:11]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR (voiceover): Nigeria's political future hangs in the balance. With sitting President Muhammadu Buhari, standing aside after two terms, voters will decide on his successor on February 25th. Three candidates leave the race. Ruling party veteran Bola Tinubu, whose campaign slogan in Meloco (PH) translates to, it's my turn.
 
BOLA TINUBU, APC PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am proud to be the candidate.
 
BUSARI (voiceover) Former vice president Atiku Abubakar, who's run for presidency on five previous occasions, and lost each time.
 
ATIKU ABUBAKAR, PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC PARTY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: No party will be sidelined. No party will be marginalized.
 
BUSARI (voiceover) An outlier candidate, Peter Obi, he enjoys a large social media following. And it's galvanized the country's young people, many of whom are still angry over the 2020 Lekki Tollgate shooting.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They are using fire.
 
BUSARI (voiceover) When according to a judicial panel, the Nigerian Army opened fire on unarmed protesters.
 
DEBO "MR. MACARONI" ADEBAYO, ENTERTAINER AND ACTIVIST: What this generation of young people want to do now is translate the anger into words, into electoral participation.
 
BUSARI (voiceover) With almost 40 percent of the registered 93 million voters under 34 years old. The youth vote could prove crucial. 61- year-old Obi hopes to break the two-party system, which has dominated Nigerian politics, since the end of military rule in 1999. His backers nicknamed obedience, say he's the only candidate with integrity. His critics, however, say one man alone cannot carry an unknown political party. Many people have said you will be easily impeached as president because of your lack of structure.
 
PETER OBI, LABOUR PARTY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: That has happened to me before.
 
BUSARI: It happened to you before.
 
OBI: So, I know how to deal with it, how to navigate it.
 
BUSARI: How will you deal with it if you're -- if you become president and you impeach?
 
OBI: Do the right things.
 
BUSARI: Which is?
 
OBI: Govern with the people.
 
BUSARI: Earlier this month, a predictive poll gave the lead to Obi, in a high-turnout scenario. However, in a low turnout scenario, Tinubu and his ruling party are expected to prevail.
 
MICHAEL FAMOROTI, CO-FOUNDER/HEAD OF INTELLIGENCE, STEARS: It's time for a new era, whatever that looks like. And I think that is probably most reflected in the levels of engagement that we've seen heading up to the polls, which are unparalleled again.
 
BUSARI: (voiceover) Nigerians will be cautiously hopeful that whoever wins will tackle the key issues, security and the economy. Nigeria's economy is teetering on the brink of financial collapse, skyrocketing public debt, and criminals stealing hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil, every day from the nation's primary source of income. And a recent attempt to redesign a currency led to a cash crisis and widespread frustration, leaving people queuing for hours to get their own money.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BUSARI (on camera): Ultimately, the winner has achieved the highest number of votes nationwide and receive 25 percent of the votes cast in 24 of the 36 days. If not, there will be a second-round run-up within 21 days, between the top two candidates. It's the first time since Nigeria began democratic rule that none of the candidates is an incumbent or former military ruler. So, whatever the outcome, Africa's most populous country will soon welcome a new dawn. Stephanie Busari, CNN, Lagos
 
COREN: Well, thank you for your company and for watching CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Anna Coren. Christina Macfarlane, will have more news at the top of the hour, "WORLD SPORT" is up, after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORTS)
 <br>[03:00:00]