Headline: CNN Tonight
Sub-headline: Russia's War In Ukraine Enters Its Second Year; NTSB Investigates Close Call Between Two Planes; Study Shows Insomnia May Be Linked To Higher Risk Of Heart Attack; "Cocaine Bear" Movie Has Everyone Talking. Aired 11p-12a ET

Aired February 24, 2023 - 23:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[23:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ALISYN CAMEROTA, CNN HOST:  It's been one year of death and destruction in Russia's war on Ukraine. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy insists his country can win this war. Here's what he said to troops earlier today.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator):  It depends entirely on you, whether we all survive or whether Ukraine survives. Every day, every hour depends on you, the Ukrainian soldier. You are our most important person who is standing, and thanks to whom millions of Ukrainians are standing, and thanks to whom Ukraine was survived. Thanks to you. Glory to Ukraine will ring out forever.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMEROTA:  Let's bring in our chief international correspondent Clarissa Ward on the ground in Kyiv. Clarissa, always great to see you. So, tell us what it's like one year in on the ground there.
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  It's really a mixed picture, Alisyn. The very fact that I'm talking to you from here in Kyiv is something that a year ago we might not have expected because all the intelligence services were saying the city would likely fall in a matter of days.
 
And yet here we are, it's still standing, the lights are still on, as you can see behind me, despite the fact that Russia has been launching a vicious campaign throughout this winter, targeting critical infrastructure.
 
And the Ukrainians have made a number of successful counteroffensives, taking back a lot of territory, pushing Russian forces out. But at the same time, the cost has been huge. And the reality is, in many of these areas, Alisyn, even though they've been taken back by Ukrainian forces, there are no proper services, the destruction is just jaw dropping, the shelling is still regular.
 
And so, it doesn't feel like the kind of victory where you're talking about a celebration. It talks about -- it feels more like a long, hard slog that Ukrainians understand, that they need to be patient with and bear, but which is really taking a huge toll on this country. 
 
CAMEROTA:  And it could be about to get worse, if that's imaginable. You've been reporting about this growing fear that Putin is going to make this aggressive new push on the ground to mark the start of this second year. So, how are Ukrainians preparing?
 
WARD:  Well, I think this is why you're hearing Ukrainian officials again and again saying, listen, if we're going to have a real shot at winning this war and winning it quickly, then we really need heavier weaponry, we really need long-range artillery, we really need F-16 fighter jets and things of this nature. This has become like a mantra as they desperately try to rally support.
 
And there is concern. The Russians are pushing hard on these frontlines and they are willing, unlike the Ukrainians, to just push thousands and thousands, tens of thousands even, of young men into what they call the meat grinder. There's no real respect for human life here, which means that even though they may not be a strategic adversary, they can be effective on the battlefield just because they are willing to expend so much manpower and so much firepower.
 
So, Ukraine is, you know, got tanks arriving. They have other weaponry that has been promised, much needed ammunition, but they're still pushing hard for that heavier weaponry, Alisyn.
 
CAMEROTA:  Clarissa, let's talk about the special report that you have coming up this weekend that shows the human toll of this war. So, let's play a clip.
 <br>[23:05:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WARD (on camera):  When you look at it now, what do you feel?
 
UNKNOWN (on screen translation):  Emptiness.
 
WARD (voice-over):  The missile sliced Nastya's one-bedroom apartment in half, killing both of her parents in the kitchen while just inches away, Nastya clung on to life.
 
(On camera):  I think for a lot of people, it's hard to understand why Russia would use this huge missile that's intended to take out an aircraft carrier in a residential area. How do you try to understand why Russia would do something like this?
 
UNKNOWN:  I don't understand.
 
WARD (on camera):  Can you tell me a little about your mum and dad, what they were like as people?
 
UNKNOWN (on screen translation):  They were very cheerful person. They were always ready to lend a helping hand. And all their lives, they were next to each other. And they left behind a person like me. I'm very grateful to them for putting the best in me.
 
WARD (on camera):  Do you ever wonder why you were saved? It's this extraordinary image that we see of you surviving the unsurvivable.
 
UNKNOWN (on screen translation):  I've been thinking about this a lot. Because, well, it's unrealistic. My mother's last words were: Nastya, go get some rest, you have to go to work. And the time was late, almost half past four. And I had to leave for work at seven.
 
WARD (on camera):  Take your time if you want to take a break.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMEROTA:  My God, Clarissa, those images of her being rescued and her standing on that burning building, and then what she's saying is so powerful. 
 
WARD:  So powerful, and it's so heartbreaking. She lost both her parents. The month beforehand, she lost her boyfriend, who she was so in love with. He was killed in fighting on the frontlines in Ukraine, in Kharkiv region.
 
And in some ways, she is a kind of symbol of Ukraine, standing and surviving this unimaginable loss, having sacrificed so much, holding her head up high, but really reminding all of us, I think, of the devastating human toll of this war.
 
CAMEROTA:  Clarissa, as always, your reporting, your stories, are so helpful for all of us to see. Thank you very much, and we'll speak to you soon.
 
WARD:  Thanks, Alisyn.
 
CAMEROTA:  And please join CNN chief international correspondent Clarissa Ward as she goes back to Ukraine one year after the war began. See what she found in this CNN special report. "The Will to Win: Ukraine at War" airs Sunday night at 8:00.
 
Now to President Biden saying the U.S. is ruling out Ukraine's request for fighter jets for the moment. Here's what he told ABC News tonight.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVID MUIR, ABC ANCHOR:  We know the Germans are now sending tanks in after the U.S. said it will send Abrams tanks as well. But we know President Zelenskyy continues to say what he really needs are F-16s. Will you send F-16s?
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:  Look, we're sending him what our seasoned military thinks he needs now. He needs tanks, he needs artillery, he needs air defense, including another HIMARS. There are things he needs now that we're sending him to put him in a position to be able to make gains this spring and this summer going into the fall.
 
MUIR:  You don't think he needs F-16s now?
 
BIDEN:  No, he doesn't need F-16s now.
 
MUIR:  Is that a never?
 
BIDEN:  Look, first of all, the idea that we know exactly what's going to be needed a year or two, three, but there is no basis upon which there is a rationale, according to our military now, to provide F-16s.
 
MUIR:  But you're not ruling it out?
 
BIDEN:  I am ruling it out for now.
 
MUIR:  For now?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMEROTA:  Okay, let's bring in Michael Bociurkiw. He is the former spokesperson for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. He joins us from Kyiv. Michael, great to see you. You have spent much of this past year living in Ukraine. So, tell us -- I mean, you heard there President Biden saying he's ruling it out for now.
 <br>[23:10:00]
 
What do you think Ukrainians need most right now?
 
MICHAEL BOCIURKIW, SENIOR FELLOW, THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL:  Good to be with you, Alisyn. Well, I can tell you, those words will not go over well here in Ukraine, especially after the fuzzy warm visit President Biden did a few days ago here.
 
The feeling here is definitely please, give us everything President Zelenskyy asked for. So, of course, that includes attack helicopters, that includes the weaponry President Biden cited, but also includes those fighter jets.
 
And I do wonder -- I do wonder what President Biden said to President Zelenskyy when they met here, when the president asked for those fighter jets.
 
And, you know, I'm not pleased with what I'm hearing out of the mouths of former U.S. officials. The former deputy secretary general who is an American said, well, the reason we can't give fighter jets is because it takes a long time to train Ukrainian fighter pilots. Well, had they done this before the full-scale invasion, Ukrainian pilots would be in a position probably right now to get into the cockpits of those jets.
 
So, I think it's a very weak argument, and I think it only serves to prolong the war even further.
 
CAMEROTA:  Michael, you sent us some video that you've taken of the emptiness of the streets there, the emptiness of store shelves, the emptiness of train stations. We'll play some of that for our viewers right now. And so, what is it like to be living there?
 
BOCIURKIW:  Sure. Well, it is very sad, actually. I've been here on and off since before the start of the war. You know, you can see the sadness, I wouldn't say hopelessness but sadness, etched on the faces of almost everyone you encounter here because when there's no end in sight to the war, that's very sad.
 
I think a lot -- I think a lot about my friends who have small and medium-size businesses who are basically on life support at the moment, the huge damage done to the agricultural sector, which represents a big part of the Ukrainian economy.
 
And then, Alisyn, quickly, you know, the overall mental health. I remember when you and I were on airwave back in April. I just came back from (INAUDIBLE) and saw the strikes which have been increasing on civilian areas. You know, those images of the bomb craters with shredded teddy bears in them and broken toys and remnants of kids. You know, this is happening on an increasing basis. We talked -- you talked earlier about that strike on Dnipro.
 
So, this war needs to end quickly to avoid more human suffering. 
 
CAMEROTA:  You probably just heard Clarissa Ward's reporting there that there's reason to believe that Russia may be preparing for an even bigger assault now that it's -- you know, to mark the one year of the war. Is there a sense of that there?
 
BOCIURKIW:  I think there's a fear of that here. You know, they know the Russian mind very well here and have watched Mr. Putin carefully. This is not a man who is easily defeated, who retreats. So, I think there is this big fear that he will make another strike from the north, from the east, and from the south. And as Clarissa mentioned, they have no qualms about using the human meat grinder approach to try and strike at Ukraine.
 
But let's be clear, if we can, about one thing. If Mr. Putin isn't stopped, and he has made clear that he would like to recreate the Soviet Union, take more countries under his fold, that this will not only severely weaken democracy, but also embolden other would-be leaders -- autocrats, rather, around the world, including China, and that will bring the war -- this war to the doorstep of every American, of every European, freedom-loving democracies around the world.
 
CAMEROTA:  Last, let's talk about China. So, as you probably know, China has sort of floated this idea that they could broker some sort of peace deal. President Biden was asked about that today. Let's listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUIR:  What do you make of this Chinese peace plan that floated overnight that Putin is now applauding today?
 
BIDEN:  I think you answered the question. Putin is applauding it. So, how could it be any good? I'm not being facetious, I'm being deadly earnest. I've seen nothing in the plan that would indicate that there is something that would be beneficial to anyone other than Russia if the Chinese plans were followed. The idea that China is going to be negotiating the outcome of a war that's a totally unjust war for Ukraine is just not rational. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMEROTA:  Your final thoughts, Michael? 
 
BOCIURKIW:  Sure. Well, the Chinese 12-point peace plan is more of a position paper than a peace plan itself. I think it was Jake Sullivan who said they could have stopped at point number one and, you know, put the emphasis on respecting the sovereignty of nations.
 
But, you know, the Chinese -- two points here quickly. Number one is they've been working very closely with the Russians over the months, including during the COVID pandemic, to help them inoculate themselves against western sanctions.
 <br>[23:15:03]
 
And number two, I believe there are reporting by others, especially (INAUDIBLE), that they're working behind the scenes to arm Russia. There is reporting now that they're negotiating the purchase -- Russia negotiating the purchase from China about the 100 strike drones with 35 to 50-kilogram warheads.
 
So, there you go. If they don't do it, obviously, they are going to do it through backdoor channels such as North Korea, Iran, and others. So, I don't believe that the Chinese are genuinely saying they're for the withdraw of Russia or for genuine peace in this part of the world.
 
CAMEROTA:  Michael Bociurkiw, great to talk to. Stay safe. We look forward to talking again soon.
 
BOCIURKIW:  Any time. Thank you very much.
 
CAMEROTA:  Back with me, we have pollster and communications strategist Frank Luntz. Political anchor for "Spectrum News" Errol Louis is joining us, business reporter for "The New York Times" Emma Goldberg, and CNN political commentator Mondaire Jones.
 
Mondaire, let's start with the politics of all of this. We'll get to what Frank was saying earlier, which is that the American people still favor America's help to Ukraine.
 
MONDAIRE JONES, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Yes.
 
CAMEROTA:  But there -- you know, I don't know how much credence to give these sort of little factions that are starting to pipe up, and I don't know if Kevin McCarthy will give them much credence, but there are the Marjorie Taylor Greenes, the Lauren Boeberts who say things like Janet Yellin just announced another $10 billion in aid to Ukraine, Biden's blank check strategy is not sustainable, especially considering the many crises at home he is flat out ignoring, and then that is a common theme focused just here.
 
JONES:  Yeah. Those people don't want to solve the crises at home either.
 
But to your point, look, we have to convey to the American people, and when I say we, people of good conscience, regardless of political affiliation, have to convey to the American people that it is in our geopolitical, national interest to help the free people of Ukraine fend off this unjust war being waged by Russia for a variety of reasons, not at least of which that Russia is a nuclear power who will not stop at Ukraine and who will increasingly pose a threat to our sovereignty, but also because China, which I think most people acknowledges an even bigger threat than Russia, is going to see a Russian victory as an excuse or permission, shall we say, for it to then expand its reach, including through invading Taiwan, but also not stopping there.
 
And, you know, it's going to be a lot harder to sanction China than it is to sanction Russia because our economies are so interconnected.
 
CAMEROTA:  Yeah. And speaking of the economy, it is interesting to see Michael Bociurkiw showing us the mall that looks something like a ghost town there. I had thought so much about the death and the people who were killed, but just that it is withering, that these cities that were thriving are now withering because of the war. 
 
EMMA GOLDBERG, BUSINESS REPORTER, THE NEW YORK TIMES:  I mean, the images are devastating. I think we have to push ourselves to not look away because there is the human toll. Like you said, 8,000 at least non-combatant lives and the U.N. says that is probably an underestimation, eight million people who have been displaced from their homes.
 
I mean, look at the impossible position that Zelenskyy is in. He has to simultaneously keep up some morale in his own country and maintain a resolve of western allies. It is a really challenging position. I think as ordinary citizens, we can keep forcing ourselves to stare at the face of what is going on, a crisis that feels so far away, but is completely devastating. 
 
CAMEROTA:  Frank, let's talk about popular opinion. The poll that we have is this "AP" poll. How much of a role should the U.S. have in the Russia-Ukraine war? It is down. From major role back in May, 32% felt a major role, 49% felt a minor role, no role was 19%. Today, well, January, it has gone down a little bit for major role, 26%, minor role same, 49%, no role has gone up a little.
 
FRANK LUNTZ, POLLSTER AND COMMUNICATIONS STRATEGIST:  The public still is overwhelmingly supportive. They look at Zelenskyy as being this great world leader. He is the most -- outside of the U.S., he is the most popular leader among the American people, number one.
 
Number two is they are not looking away. You are so correct. The public sees the video that you just showed, sees the suffering of people, and it is undeserved. You cannot defend it.
 
And third, as a historian, in addition to being a pollster, this is 1939, we have seen this. Our grandparents have lived this. What do we not understand? If you do not respond to aggression, you get more. If you do not stand up for human rights, you get human suffering. We have learned this already.
 
CAMEROTA:  Errol? 
 
ERROL LOUIS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Yep, absolutely. I mean, those lessons are really guiding Biden's policy, as well as a critical majority of the U.S. Congress. We are right up to the 75th anniversary of the successor to World War II, which is the Marshall Plan. If you think this is expensive, what we're spending now, they spent over a four-year period, the equivalent in modern dollars of $170+ billion.
 <br>[23:20:00]
 
LOUIS:  And it was necessary. It was effective. And it made all of the difference. We now have something like half a trillion dollars -- over $520, I think -- $100 billion of trade with Europe every single year.
 
So, this may be expensive, and there may be some hesitancy and there may be a desire, hey, how come we can't fix our local bridge, why are we sending money to Ukraine, but to understand the history and understand the bigger picture, that is the job of the Congress. So far, I think they are holding together with a critical mass. If the public supports it, I think that's what we should expect to see.
 
LUNTZ:  I want to thank CNN for that video. And I hope that people tune in tomorrow --
 
CAMEROTA:  Yeah.
 
LUNTZ:  -- because you're doing a service, and that is something that is not happening. Too often, we argue, we bicker back and forth on a show like this. You are providing a public service to teach us and remind us not only of our freedoms, but also our responsibilities.
 
CAMEROTA:  Thank you for saying that. It's Sunday at 8:00. Clarissa Ward, I would watch her do anything, and her reporting is so stellar, and she will bring it into all of our living rooms. Thank you all for all of that.
 
Meanwhile, back here, another close call on the runway. It's the fourth time this year. We'll bring you the details and discuss what's going on at airports.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:25:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CAMEROTA:  Investigators looking into another close call between two planes, this time in Burbank, California. The NTSB says the crew of a Mesa Airlines flight had to abort their landing right as a SkyWest flight was taking off from the same runway. You can hear the confusion on this air traffic control recording.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN (VOICE-OVER):  Airshuttle 5826 affrimative runway 33 clear to land.
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over):  Is he off the runway yet?
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): We're going around.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMEROTA:  Is he off the runway? That's an important question, I think. This is happening just a few weeks after an incident in Honolulu, where United Airlines 777 jet crossed the runway as a smaller cargo plane was landing.
 
Days before that, an American Airlines flight at JFK crossed in front of a Delta plane trying to take off. And then there was the near miss in Austin where a FedEx plane almost landed on top of a Southwest Airlines flight.
 
Let's bring in Frank Luntz, Errol Louis, Emma Goldberg, and Mondaire Jones. Mondaire, is there something Congress can do about -- is there some system that is shutting down, that needs to be updated, and lawmakers can look into this or something? 
 
JONES:  I think we've got the relevant federal agencies hopefully looking into this. But it is of concern. I think anyone who flies on a regular basis or semiregular basis, this is not something that should be happening. How much of it is human error? How much of it is isolated human error? How much of it is systemic? I think the NTSB is going to tell us hopefully more. 
 
CAMEROTA:  I hope so because -- I mean, you know, at first, it is like, oh, there is a scary near miss and we talk about it and make a big deal, but it is one-off. Every single week, I'm reporting on some sort of near miss. I do not know if it's taking a toll yet or that it seeped into the -- I do not know that people are not flying as a result yet, Emma, but they are concerned. 
 
GOLDBERG:  Absolutely. I mean, I saw this news and I thought, I have seen this movie before, very recently. And even before that, there was a meltdown at Southwest over the holidays. I think people are looking at the infrastructure problems right now and thinking infrastructure is reflection of, you know, how strong the country is and how safe people feel traveling.
 
And then on top of that, you have the news, for example, in East Palestine. You're seeing all around these severe breakdowns in infrastructure, and I think that people want to feel safe and they want to know that, you know, airlines or anything are prioritizing profits over the safety and comfort of consumers.
 
And on top of that, the FAA has not had a confirmed administrator. I think there is a cascade of issues here that is making people feel unsafe traveling --
 
CAMEROTA:  Yeah.
 
GOLDBERG:  -- and that just makes them feel unsafe generally. CAMEROTA:  Such a good point, Emma. I do think that there are some
 
 transportation infrastructure issues that we have seen. A lot of it. There are reasons to be nervous.
 
LOUIS:  Yes. It's not just the physical infrastructure, though. It is the sort of commercial infrastructure of the industry. There has been a monopolization. There are only a couple of places where you can get planes made. There is only a handful of carriers left. They've all merged. They've had such a hard time economically.
 
First of all, there is not enough money to really invest in new systems. Their stock prices are dropping. They've got sort of hiring crisis. They don't have enough personnel to do what they need do. And then they're trying to solve the wrong problem. They are still, I think, mesmerized by this prospect of selling you at the best possible price, the last possible seat, and to crowd the planes and cancel the ones that are empty and so forth.
 
That is not the problem. They've got to get a viable and safe system together, and hopefully, it will not take a tragedy for them to realize that, you know, selling a few more seats at a slightly lower price is not worth the catastrophic impact of actually losing their main selling point, which is that you can get a safe flight almost anywhere in the world.
 
CAMEROTA:  I agree. I really hope that they're not reactive this time and their proactive, and all of these close calls are allowing them to be proactive about something. You're a world traveler, Frank. Does this make you nervous? 
 
LUNTZ:  Not at all!
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
LUNTZ:  I fly the 2019 -- I flew 319,000 miles. I was on the road, in a place almost 300 days. Now, I did get sick in 2020. But it is safe. You are more likely to get into an accident and have a real problem on your way home tonight --
 
CAMEROTA:  For sure! 
 
LUNTZ:  -- than you are on a plane.
 
CAMEROTA:  I always agree with that. Just right now, there seems to be this cluster of close calls that we haven't had before that for a while.
 
LUNTZ:  Close calls because in some way, the system works to override what is happening. If it's human error, the system fixes it. If the system is messed up, then human error steps in. It has never been safer to fly than right now.
 <br>[23:30:00]
 
The Southwest have a problem? Absolutely! Do our airlines, our airports, in some cases, unable to take the extra passengers? Sure! But in terms of safety, you should feel -- you should be able to get on a plane and go to sleep, and you are going to arrive where you want to be, safe and secure guaranteed. 
 
CAMEROTA:  Thank you for that guarantee. Okay, well, problem solved.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
LOUIS:  Frank says it's guaranteed. 
 
LUNTZ:  You're all set. I will ensure anyone on this panel.
 
CAMEROTA:  Frank is just dropping deals tonight like this. I like that, Frank. I'll take you up on that. 
 
JONES:  Take my airfare while you're at it.
 
CAMEROTA:  I also was confident that the pilot asked, is he off the runway? I'll go around. I was comforted they were nimble enough to do that. 
 
JONES:  He was like forget what they're saying, I see what's happening.
 
CAMEROTA:  Yeah, I see what's happening.
 
JONES:  That's the whole point.
 
LUNTZ:  It does work. 
 
CAMEROTA:  Yeah, that is comforting, actually. Everyone, stick around if you would because I want to know how you all slept last night. Really. There's a new study out about just how deadly lack of sleep can be. We're going to talk about it.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CAMEROTA:  If you want to live longer, new study is out this week suggests sleep may be one way to make that happen. According to the study in the Clinical Cardiology Journal, people with insomnia are more than 1.6 times more likely to have a heart attack than people who sleep well. Researchers in a separate study found that getting good sleep can add years to your life.
 
All right, let's bring in our guests. We have Frank, Errol, and Mondaire. They are back. Also joining us is Emma Choi, a senior in college, I won't say which one, and host of the "Everyone and Their Mom" podcast on NPR. Okay, it's Harvard. Great to have you here.
 
EMMA CHOI, PODCAST HOST:  Good evening, Alisyn. 
 
CAMEROTA:  Yea, in your Harvard voice. How much as a senior in college do you sleep per night?
 
CHOI:  I am maybe the worst college student to be representative of my peers. I get a full eight hours every night. 
 
CAMEROTA:  Good for you. How do you do it?
 
CHOI:  Time management. I guess I'm better than everybody.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CHOI:  I cut off my work by 10:00. I just can't think after 10:00. So --
 
CAMEROTA:  My brain freezes, too, and I have to go to sleep.
 
CHOI:  Oh, yeah.
 
CAMEROTA:  How much sleep do you get, Mondaire?
 
JONES:  That is so impressive. I used to do all-nighters often in college. I usually get between 6-1/2 to 7 hours. I would like to get 8 hours. I think that's probably what I need on a daily basis.
 
CAMEROTA:  You could go to sleep earlier.
 
JONES:  I could. I could have the time management that you have. I'm jealous of --
 
CAMEROTA:  I'm suggesting it because apparently, it is very good for your health.
 
JONES:  There's too much content on social media, unfortunately.
 
CAMEROTA:  No, stop. Just stop. Stop. Turn that off and just stop.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CAMEROTA:  Okay, Errol, how much --
 
LOUIS:  Claim your phone.
 
CAMEROTA:  How much do you sleep?
 
LOUIS:  About 4-1/2 to 6 1/2 hours.
 
MONDAIRE:  Oh, my gosh.
 
CHOI:  Oh, my gosh. 
 
CAMEROTA:  Four and a half is not enough.
 
LOUIS:  Well, what can I tell you?
 
CAMEROTA:  Here again, just stop. What are you doing?
 
LOUIS:  I'll be here till midnight. I'm going to go home to get some sleep. I'll be on with Boris and that is 6:00 tomorrow.
 
JONES:  Don't blame CNN.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
LOUIS:  You know, in all seriousness, I do remember a time in my life when I'd be up all night worried about how to pay my bills, and I decided extra jobs could fill that time, and that became sort of a habit that I have yet to change.
 
CAMEROTA:  You know what's interesting when you said that? We act as though people can control the insomnia. Insomnia is something that people wrestle with. People are up for reasons. The times that I've been up all night is because you're stressed about something, something is happening in your life. So, we act as though we cannot control this, but we can't all control this. That brings us to you. Frank, how much do you sleep per night? 
 
LUNTZ:  Twelve to 14 hours. 
 
CAMEROTA:  No, you don't, Frank. How much do you really sleep?
 
LUNTZ:  Three to four hours.
 
CAMEROTA:  Why so little? 
 
LUNTZ:  Because there's so much to do, there is distraction, and I just can't stay asleep. And it has become a problem. I'm living proof of that report in terms of it has affected my health. It affected my well-being. I know it. But, okay, Ambien fixes that.
 
CAMEROTA:  Yes. And do you feel rested after Ambien?
 
LUNTZ:  I became addicted to it, and so I had to stop doing it. And then I wasn't sleeping at all. I will be up till 5:00 or 5:30 in the morning. (INAUDIBLE) by the makers of Ambien because --
 
CAMEROTA:  Because you have reaction to it?
 
LUNTZ:  -- Because I could not fall asleep at all. I'm off it now. But it's a combination of fear and anxiety, and hope and opportunity. So, there's an awful lot of it. I'm looking at my sports scores. I'm looking at Beatle trivia. I'm looking at the stupid things that politicians say. 
 
CAMEROTA:  But I mean how about meditation? We all recognize --
 
LUNTZ:  I'm too conservative to do meditation.
 
CAMEROTA:  Is that right?
 
LUNTZ:  I --
 
CAMEROTA:  Reading a book? How about just reading a pleasant book?
 
LUNTZ:  When I start to vote (ph) for Bernie Sanders, then I'll start to do yoga --
 
CAMEROTA:  Really?
 
LUNTZ:  But since I'm not doing it, I have to --
 
CAMEROTA:  I think you're limiting yourself, Frank. I don't think that you have to vote (ph) for anybody in particular to do meditation and to have good sleep hygiene. 
 
LUNTZ:  When I meditate, I get upset, and then I don't sleep at all.
 
CAMEROTA:  Hmm.
 
LUNTZ:  I want to be distracted by life, not focused on life. 
 
CAMEROTA:  All right, well, you're supposed to clear your mind. I'm going to work with you on this because I just feel that -- 
 
LOUIS:  Call it deep breathing. Don't call it meditating.
 
CAMEROTA:  Yes, okay, deep breathing. We'll say that.
 
LUNTZ:  That's easier.
 
CAMEROTA:  I -- here's something concerning because I need nine hours of sleep. I always have. I need nine hours of sleep. I'm exhausted if I get any less. And I know that that's not realistic and earth doesn't often allow for that.
 <br>[23:39:57]
 
But listen to this, people who slept six hours a night had a lower risk of heart attack than those who slept nine hours or more. So, I mean, you can't win. Sleeping nine hours, they're saying, is overdoing it, but I really like a good nine-hour sleep.
 
JONES:  Sleep is one of the most underappreciated things in our daily lives. I took a class in college called "Sleep and Dreams." Shout out to Professor Dement who --
 
LUNTZ:  What university?
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
LUNTZ:  What university?
 
JONES:  Shout out to Stanford. So, Dr. Dement --
 
LUNTZ:  Parents, I want parents to know that you're spending $60,000 -- 
 
JONES:  Eigthy.
 
LUNTZ:  -- a year -- $80,000 so your kids can study sleep.
 
JONES:  But you know what? I have not yet had a heart attack, thank God. I think that people really should appreciate the fact that if they don't get adequate sleep, their sleep debt starts to build up. They're less happy, they're more likely to fall asleep while driving, they're less productive at work, and sometimes, you become so accustomed to less sleep that you don't fully appreciate how much better you would feel if you were getting those eight or nine hours that you're talking about.
 
CAMEROTA:  Thank you to Professor Dement for that wisdom. We're going to work with you, Frank. That is our goal.
 
LUNTZ:  Tell the professor, do not call me.
 
CAMEROTA:  Hold that thought.
 
LUNTZ:  Do not wake me up.
 
CAMEROTA:  Hold that thought.
 
JONES:  We'll put you in the study. 
 
CAMEROTA:  Don't go anywhere, anyone. We need to talk about "Cocaine Bear," the chaotic, bloody horror movie that's hitting theaters this weekend. It is actually based on a real story, we've learned.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CAMEROTA:  What happens when a wild bear gets into cocaine? You ask yourself? Well, things get wilder. That's the premise of the new movie "Cocaine Bear." And the wildest part of this movie is it is based on a true story of a bear who overdosed on cocaine back in 1985.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over):  Millions of dollars-worth of cocaine fell from the sky this morning in Knoxville, Tennessee.
 
UNKNOWN:  There is more of this out there. They dumped it somewhere.
 
UNKNOWN:  I'm looking for my daughter! 
 
UNKNOWN:  The forest is a dangerous place.
 
UNKNOWN:  Wow, check it out! Something got into it! A deer maybe?
 
UNKNOWN:  A lot of cocaine was lost.
 
UNKNOWN:  I need you to go and get it.
 
UNKNOWN:  No, no, no! Don't eat that! Don't eat that! 
 
UNKNOWN:  Let's see what kind of effect that has on him!
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMEROTA:  Back with me, Emma Goldberg, Emma -- Errol Louis, Emma Choi, and Mondaire Jones. Everybody is called Emma in this segment.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CAMEROTA:  Okay, so a dark comedy slasher film, is that your genre, Errol? 
 
LOUIS:  Not usually. I will say that my 17-year-old son laughed at the trailer just as much as I did, and it might be one of the few times we can connect than actually watch the same thing.
 
CAMEROTA:  Are you really going to see "Cocaine Bear?"
 
LOUIS:  You know, if that is what the boy wants to see. As a good parent, I could do no less. I have to go and supervise.
 
CAMEROTA:  I understand that, whatever the kids want. I totally agree. Emma, are you tempted to see "Cocaine Bear?"
 
GOLDBERG:  I hope we are all going to see it after this tonight. I mean, I was tempted to see it from the moment I heard the premise. The fact that cocaine fell from the sky, and then they found a bear that had overdosed on it, that alone is a draw for me. I don't need to see the trailer. I'll go to the theater with any of you.
 
CAMEROTA:  The trailer is really demented! I mean, I'm sure the whole movie is really demented, actually, Emma.
 
CHOI:  Totally! I mean, I just want to say Leo DiCaprio is amazing as the bear!
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CHOI:  He transformed himself and I'm really happy that he gets into another Oscar-winning picture. 
 
JONES:  I'm going to see it. I wasn't going to see if before I saw the trailer, but it's a no-brainer for me now. Literally a no-brainer!
 
CAMEROTA:  Yeah, really a no-brainer.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CAMEROTA:  I thought it was a dark comedy because the people who are in it seemed like committed. It is actually, I think, a slasher film. I think it gets gross.
 
JONES:  Yeah. I mean, I've seen sort of torn limbs and blood.
 
GOLDBERG:  Yeah.
 
LOUIS:  The bear gets out of control.
 
JONES:  Yeah.
 
GOLDBERG:  I want to know if a deer (ph) was involved in this. It was like (INAUDIBLE).
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CAMEROTA:  And by the way, the real story is that yes, there was some sort of accidental drop from a drug trafficker of cocaine. And a bear did ingest it and died. That's the end of the story. Not the bear that terrorizes everybody and makes (INAUDIBLE) campsite.
 
LOUIS:  There is a reason. What if -- what if (INAUDIBLE)?
 
CAMEROTA:  They're taking some poetic liberties.
 
LOUIS:  To say the least, right? It seems to be in the same genre with snakes on a plane where it's kind of fan-driven, you know, and it doesn't necessarily have a moral or an arc or any of the things we used to see in a movie.
 
JONES:  In other words, it's not a good film?
 
LOUIS:  No, no, no. It's a particular kind of film and is just pure fun! Pure bloody fun for guys who like that kind of movie.
 
CAMEROTA:  Truly bloody fun. Here is the director. It is interesting. It is Elisabeth Banks. That's an interesting choice. She told "Times" that she was drawn to the project, Emma, after reading the script in April 2020 when everything was at a standstill and chaotic because of the pandemic.
 
She said -- quote -- "I just thought, wow! There's no greater chaos than a bear high on cocaine. Directing this film felt almost cathartic. I could tame the chaos a little bit."
 
CHOI: (INAUDIBLE) advocate for yourself. Right? I'm honestly happy for this bear. He has a redemption arc. He's having the time of his life! He's a little (INAUDIBLE). He's hitting the town. He's getting a good dinner in, you know? And honestly, it's like 11:45 on a Friday night, I'm pretty sure there's a lot of cocaine bears out watching right now.
 
CAMEROTA:  You're right. For the "Cocaine Bear" general (ph), this is perfect.
 <br>[23:50:00]
 
JONES:  Good to know that in April 2021, I was running my first campaign for Congress and the people are (INAUDIBLE) on films like this because they were so bored.
 
CAMEROTA:  That's right! And by the way, I don't think we can blame the pandemic for everything. "Cocaine Bear" is not because of the pandemic, okay? I love Elizabeth Banks, but no! You just wanted to do "Cocaine Bear" because you think it's funny, and you're right.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
JONES:  I accuse of her wanting to do "Cocaine Bear."
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
CAMEROTA:  Wanted to make the movie "Cocaine Bear" because it's funny and you had a great time, I hope, doing it. All right, so, guys, I guess we all will go out and see it right now as soon as we're done. All right, we'll be right back, everyone.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:55:00]
 
CAMEROTA:  The eyes of the world on Ukraine tonight as Vladimir Putin's invasion enters its second year. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says this will be the year of Ukraine's victory. He told troops -- quote -- "You will decide whether Ukraine is going to exist."
 
Join CNN chief international correspondent Clarissa Ward as she goes back to Ukraine one year after the war began. See what she found when the CNN special report "The Will to Win: Ukraine at War" airs Sunday night at 8:00.
 
Thanks so much for watching tonight. Our coverage continues.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST:  Good evening.