Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Ukraine Marks One Year Since Russian Military Invasion; Medics Treat Ukrainian Injured In Battle For Bakhmut; Key Moments In Russia's War Against Ukraine; Beijing Offers 12-Point Peace Plan; U.N. Calls For Special Session On The Anniversary Of Ukraine War; President Zelenskyy Holds News Conference One Year Into Russian Invasion. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired February 24, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:40]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: I'm Becky Anderson. Hello, and welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
It is momentous day for Ukraine and the world. Any moment now we expect to hear from Ukraine's president. We're also monitoring a special session of 
 
 the United Nations Security Council. Now both of those events happening one year after Russian tanks rolled into and missiles rained down on Ukraine at 
 
 the start of Russian President Vladimir Putin's, quote, "special military operation." 
 
In an instant, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, comedian turned head of state, became a wartime president. Today, he's been part of the day visiting wounded 
 
 soldiers in Kyiv, rewind a year, and in those frantic, terrifying hours after the invasion started, he appeared on the streets of the capital 
 
 reassuring his country that he was still alive. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): We are all here. Our military are here. Citizens and society are here. We are all here 
 
 defending our independence. Our state. And it will remain so. Glory to our defenders. Glory to our women defenders. Glory to Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, instead of a quick and easy victory, Putin and frankly many war analysts have expected Ukraine of course is standing strong and winning 
 
 the war. Along with the hearts and minds of much of the world. 
 
The sacrifice in lives and livelihoods has been immense. President Zelenskyy noting the losses and looking ahead in his address earlier today 
 
 to Ukrainian soldiers. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): It is you who will decide whether we are all going to exist. Whether Ukraine is going to exist. Every day, every 
 
 hour, it is you, Ukrainian soldiers, which will decide it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, as Ukraine and the world marks this day we are bringing you coverages only CNN can. Reporters in Kyiv and Moscow, London, at the U.N. 
 
 covering the diplomatic and human angles of what this modern-day story of tragedy and resilience. 
 
Cold reality is that this war is nowhere near over. Ukrainians are bracing for more attacks today. And there are several more deaths reported, an 
 
 ongoing shelling in the Donetsk and Kherson rejoins. Those regions of course among four in Ukraine illegally annexed by Russia back in September. 
 
Fierce battles grinding on along the frontlines in eastern Ukraine. And Russia still trying to capture the strategic city of Bakhmut to cut off the 
 
 Ukrainian supply lines in Donetsk. 
 
Sam Kiley is on the ground for us today in Kharkiv. Nic Robertson connecting us from London. 
 
And as we await the press conference today from Zelenskyy, and that is something that we are looking to get for our viewers just as soon as it 
 
 starts happening, let me get to you, Sam. You're on the ground in Kharkiv where you were a year ago today. Just reflect on where we are at. 
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, who could've imagined, Becky, that you and I would be talking again from the same 
 
 rooftop at about the same time of day 12 months later in Ukraine, which is, I'm not quite sure it'd be true to say winning the war, but certainly has 
 
 won back a huge amount of territory that it lost in those first few days. 
 
Now we're only 25 miles from the Russian border, and they were able to drive them back in September. Liberating a large amount of Kharkiv 
 
 province. 
 
But Becky, I think very often people underestimate the scale of the human cost. Not just civilians but military for the Ukrainians. And this is what 
 
 it looks like in the center, in the hottest part of this cauldron of war close to Bakhmut. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KILEY (voice-over): Almost walking, this wounded Ukrainian soldier has an obvious injury. Arriving at a casualty evacuation point for the battle of 
 
 Bakhmut, American medics look for hidden trauma. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Tell him I'm going roll him and I'm going to check his back. One, two, three. And when you get a chance, give his legs a feel for 
 
 me. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can we get him back? A shrapnel wound out here, as well. It looks minor. 
 <br>[10:05:04]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You want to go ahead and draw up some Ondant for me? 
 
KILEY: Chris is from Houston, Texas. He's three kilometers, less than two miles, from Russian troops. And he's only 22. Last year, he took time out 
 
 from his job to volunteer for Road to Relief. The charity relies on donations to fund and equip frontline ambulances. And these teams are 
 
 unpaid. 
 
ADAM MEYSING, AMBULANCE DRIVER: There's credit cards, and my mom, and a little bit of prior savings. So as long as you have enough money to scrape 
 
 by and just buy, like, the basic goods, things tend to be OK. 
 
KILEY: Hospital and medical staff are regularly targeted by Russia. This location is hidden in trees near Ukrainian artillery. This firing overhead 
 
 on Russians just up the road. 
 
CHRIS WRIGHT, VOLUNTEER PARAMEDIC: So it's just -- yes, we need more medics, more drugs. It's just that the amount of injuries is super high. 
 
Does he have any allergies? 
 
KILEY (on-camera): Chris is saying privately that one of the reasons there is such a need for foreign volunteers to work as medics is that so many of 
 
 the Ukrainians have been killed. 
 
(Voice-over): The team relies on a former software designer for translation. 
 
KILEY (on-camera): Is there anything about this that you can't handle? 
 
ANNA KOVALCHUK, TRANSLATOR: All those deaths, I, of course, they are incredibly hard. I don't know how to take. Somehow you feel guilty about 
 
 that. 
 
KILEY (voice-over): It's a 20-minute run for the ambulance to a field hospital. 
 
WRIGHT: Can you approach this slowly for me, please? A mine roughly -- like, what was it, 20 minutes ago? Thirty minutes ago now? Yes, a mine 30 
 
 minutes ago. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Careful, please. 
 
KILEY: He's delivered to another secret clinic. Here, the wounded pour in. A soldier has lost a leg. In his abandoned uniform, the piece of shrapnel 
 
 that took it. Medics here say it's relatively quiet. Some days there are hundreds of patients. 
 
WRIGHT: He doesn't remember losing if he lost consciousness or not. But pupils were equal and reactive, same size. 
 
KILEY: Blood-soaked stretchers dry in the sun outside. And sunset can be busy for medics. Soldiers trapped by fighting can be rescued as the light 
 
 fades. 
 
Back at the evacuation point, no wounded. Five dead soldiers lie in body bags. They're so fresh from the battlefield they are unknown. Their ID's 
 
 are checked and they're photographed. Their suffering is over. Their families don't yet know that theirs is about to begin. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KILEY: Now, Becky, just to give you an idea of how close to home this sometimes comes, we work with a local producer here. I work with her for 
 
 the last eight months. She is 27. And I'd say that half of her friends have been killed or injured over the last 12 months -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: Yes, that's remarkable. Sam, let's just pull up some maps. I want to get a sense of what has happened on the ground. And you can walk us 
 
 through, you know, what is significant here. Map showing Russian presence in Ukraine, of course, can help tell the story of this war over the past 
 
 year. 
 
This map from two weeks into the war shows Russian forces in red occupying a vast area north of Kyiv and across the northern and eastern and 
 
 southeastern borders of Ukraine including the previously Russian controlled areas of Donbas and Crimea, indicated on the black lines. Just a month 
 
 later, Ukrainian forces have driven Russian troops out of the north, all the way to where you are in Kharkiv, Sam. 
 
Then after months of stalemate, Ukraine made another rapid advance in early September, this time driving the Russians out of the area from Kharkiv to 
 
 the borders of the Luhansk region. Early November, Ukraine launched an offensive in the south, forcing a Russian retreat from Kherson and out of 
 
 the villages north of the Dnipro River. 
 
And that, Sam, as I understand it, is largely the position today, with the caveat that we are told Russia is building up its forces in the east for an 
 
 expected new offensive. What's the evidence for that and just how concerned are troops on the ground about that offensive? 
 
KILEY: So local commanders in the east, particularly around in Luhansk and Donetsk Province, they're around the cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk 
 
 with perhaps are the major prize that the Russian are pursuing in the east. 
 <br>[10:10:07]
 
They've told us over the last couple of weeks, Becky, that they believe that the early stages of this Russian offensive are already underway. What 
 
 the military would call shaping operations, probing attacks, artillery attacks, and for that reason, there's been an uptick in violence around the 
 
 city of Bakhmut, but also further north, all the way up to Kupiansk, which is due east of where I'm standing really. 
 
But quite a long way now, due east, because of course the territory between here and there has been liberated, as you point out, back in September. Now 
 
 there is also, though, an anticipated or a concern that there could be attacks from the north. Only 25 miles to the Russian border. And Kyiv may 
 
 once again be a target if Russian troops come in from neighboring Belarus. 
 
But, and this is the big but, the Americans in particular, but the British and others are not yet convinced that the Russians really have the 
 
 capability to launch a full scale offensive. There is some doubt as to whether or not what they have on paper, they actually have in reality. And 
 
 it's exploiting that kind of disconnect, poor leadership, poor tactics, poor strategy, on the Russian side, and steadily improving tactics and 
 
 strategy and leadership on the Ukrainian side, which has given the Ukrainians the ability to push back. 
 
But in those first few days, Becky, you cannot underestimate how a small number of determined young man held a superpower at bay using NLAW 
 
 shoulder-launched missiles and Javelin that were rapidly sent over by the United States and Britain, mainly. Small groups of three or four men in 
 
 pickup trucks held them back, stop those convoys quite literally in their tracks and destroyed them. And that I think was the key turning point of 
 
 this whole war. And it happened, as you rightly point out, very, very early on in the conflict. 
 
ANDERSON: Yes. Absolutely. Sam, stand by. I want to bring in CNN's chief international correspondent Clarissa Ward. 
 
You work, Clarissa, of course in Ukraine a year ago when this invasion began, and you're joining us from Kyiv. And you'll have just heard Sam and 
 
 with his insight and analysis there. Today, President Zelenskyy, who we are by the way waiting to hear from as we speak, earlier today he said that 
 
 Ukraine can end this war this year. Can he? 
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think that largely depends on whether the Ukrainians are able to extract this heavier 
 
 weaponry, Becky, that they have been so desperately pleading for. Particularly they're looking for long-range artillery. They've also asked 
 
 for fighter jets. The U.K. has said that they would potentially supply those, although they then qualify that by saying it would take years to 
 
 actually train Ukrainian pilots on those jets. 
 
But, if you look at the state of play, as you've just heard from Sam, particularly in the east, it has become a kind of grim, grinding stalemate. 
 
 And it is difficult to see how the Ukrainians can regain the momentum, if you will, and try to push back the Russians when the reality is that 
 
 Russian forces are willing to just keep throwing as many young men at this conflict as they have to in order to achieve this goal of the protracted 
 
 stalemate. 
 
And, you know, underneath all of that, of course, Becky, is the horrific and senseless cost of this war particularly on ordinary citizens of 
 
 Ukraine. We spent some time with a young woman from Dnipro, the central city that has traditionally been seen as something of a safe haven but 
 
 which last month turned into hell on earth when a massive Russian missile, the size of a city bus, slammed into a residential apartment building. Take 
 
 a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WARD (on-camera): When you look at it now, what do you feel? 
 
NASTYA, UKRAINIAN CITIZEN (through text translation): Emptiness. 
 
WARD (voice-over): The missile sliced Nastya's one-bedroom apartment in half, killing both of her parents in the kitchen while just inches away 
 
 Nastya clung on to life. 
 
(On-camera): I think for a lot of people it's hard to understand why Russia would use this huge missile that's intended to take out an aircraft carrier 
 
 in a residential area. How do you try to understand why Russia would do something like this? 
 <br>[10:15:08]
 
NASTYA: I don't understand. 
 
WARD: Can you tell me a little bit about your mom and dad, what they were like as people? 
 
NASTYA (through text translation): They were very cheerful people. They were always ready to lend a helping hand. And all their lives they were 
 
 next to each other. And they left behind a person like me. I'm very grateful to them for putting the best in me. 
 
WARD: Do you ever wonder why you were saved? It's this extraordinary image that we see of you surviving the un-survivable. 
 
NASTYA (through text translation): I've been thinking about this a lot. Because, well, it's unrealistic. My mother's last words were, Nastya, go 
 
 get some rest. You have to go to work. And the time was late, almost half past 4:00. And I had to leave for work at 7:00. 
 
WARD: Take your time if you want to take a break. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WARD: And Becky, Nastya says that she is now trying to get on with her life. She also lost her boyfriend if you can believe it. He was killed 
 
 fighting on the frontlines in Kharkiv a month earlier. And her story really is the story of so many Ukrainians who have survived the unthinkable and 
 
 who are just trying to get through this -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: Lest we forget lives destroyed this past year. And you can see Clarissa Ward's special report in its entirety this week. "THE WILL TO WIN: 
 
 UKRAINE AT WAR." Sunday at 8:00 p.m., replaying Monday at 9:00 p.m. London Time. 
 
Clarissa, thank you. 
 
The U.N. Security Council has just started a special session on Ukraine. And we will be monitoring that for you for news. 
 
Big power politics are on full display as this war enters its second year and observers are wondering just how much they could change the dynamics of 
 
 the conflict, especially now that China has unveiled a 12-point plan calling for a political settlement. The U.S. secretary of State says the 
 
 Biden administration is, quote, "taking a look at the proposal." But Antony Blinken, who was at this Security Council meeting that we are looking at 
 
 now also says Beijing, in his words, is trying to have it both ways. China under pressure over its growing partnership with Moscow. 
 
A little, earlier U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin talked to CNN about his warning to Beijing. Have a listen to this. 
 
Have we got that sound? All right. Well, let's bring in Nic Robertson who is in London. 
 
Nic, you're the international diplomatic editor for CNN. It is your job to keep across everything that is going on when it comes to sort of this, you 
 
 know, the diplomacy and at the heart of most of what you are doing and have been doing for the past year is trying to unpiece where we go next with 
 
 this war in Ukraine. We see the U.N. Security Council speaking as we speak. We are waiting to hear from President Zelenskyy, who will be addressing 
 
 Ukraine and the wider world. 
 
Where are we at, Nic? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: We are at a moment in the war, looking at the weather changing. Ukraine getting stronger and 
 
 better ammunition, and equipment, more sophisticated military equipment. If we go back a year, there were not a fully formed army if you will. They 
 
 literally had as Sam was saying a few shoulder-launched rockets that they had to shoot at Russian tanks and armored vehicles. 
 
Ukraine did the impossible and they held back this massive, much bigger, much better equipped force. So now we go into this year with Ukraine being 
 
 better equipped. And Lloyd Austin, who's spoken about this, he said that he thinks this is the opportunity now for Ukraine to shape the battlefield and 
 
 do what President Zelenskyy wants and take back territory. So I think where we stand now a year on is the battlefield is ready for another round of 
 
 fighting. 
 <br>[10:20:02]
 
And this is what both President Putin has indicated, that Russia is on track with it, saying, as he said, President Zelenskyy has said yes, you 
 
 know, to China's 12 notes about positions about peace. We're happy to have a discussion about this. But it's very clear President Zelenskyy and the 
 
 Western alliance behind him has said very clearly that has to be -- the peace has to be on Ukraine's terms, that its sovereignty is respected per 
 
 the U.N. charter, that Russia has to pull out of that territory. 
 
So that's not happening. So we're in a position now where there's going to be another big round of fighting. And it's going to be very bloody. And the 
 
 attrition in terms of manu material is going to be very high. And towards the end of the year, political military leaders will be able to survey 
 
 what's been achieved or not achieved, and have a more realistic version of what peace for them might actually look like. We're just not there at the 
 
 moment. 
 
ANDERSON: Yes. There's two things I want to discuss with you. This Beijing's offer of a 12-point position paper, calling for a settlement to 
 
 this. I want to know what you make of that and I want to talk about what happened at the UNGA last night, the U.N. General Assembly, because 
 
 although revolutions there are non-binding, it was really interesting to see how the world responded when asked about this aggressive acts by Russia 
 
 invading the Ukraine. 
 
Let's start with this Beijing, China peace solution as they are proposing. What do you make of it? 
 
ROBERTSON: We heard from both the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, and the NATO secretary-general this morning asked that question 
 
 at the press conference, what they think about it, and they said, look, China's position is not an independent position. They have signed a wide-
 
 ranging agreement to support Russia. That agreement is nonlethal aid at the moment. But potentially it could become lethal aid. And there are concerns 
 
 about that. 
 
So they don't see China as an independent actor but they would like to see China flush more what it's saying and they both recognize that China is not 
 
 saying that Russia is the aggressor here, which is the position of all the allies behind Ukraine. 
 
Secretary of State Antony Blinken, as you are mentioning, before has said that, you know, in this situation, China was trying to show one face to the 
 
 world that it is a neutral party. But it isn't because it doesn't recognize that Ukraine has been invaded by Russia. It speaks about the importance of 
 
 territorial integrity and sovereignty but it's not saying anything about it. That it is providing nonlethal support and it might provide lethal 
 
 support. 
 
So China's proposal don't seem to have a lot of mileage in them at the moment. There may be something else. They could be hugely influential with 
 
 Russia. But they could also tip the battlefield balance to allow Russia, at least, to keep what it's got. And they've spoken about that need for 
 
 Russia's interests to be respected. 
 
ANDERSON: Let me bring in Kylie Atwood who's at the U.N., as we await to hear from President Zelenskyy. We're keeping one eye on what is going on. 
 
 You see that the U.N. secretary-general is speaking there. 
 
The U.N. General Assembly voted last night demanding that Russia remove troops from Ukraine. The vote was 141 to seven with 12 no shows and 32 
 
 abstentions, and let's be clear who was included in those abstentions. India and China who make up some 2.8 billion people around the world. 
 
 Perhaps unfair to suggest that vote reflects the will of those 2.8 billion people, but certainly two significant players. Both abstained from that 
 
 UNGA vote last night. 
 
Kylie, you're at the U.N. What's the talk there? 
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, listen, what we're hearing from leaders as this U.N. Security Council is getting underway is a 
 
 reflection of what the past year has entailed. The U.N. secretary general said that last year, at this time, he was calling for peace, as of course 
 
 there were those warnings that Russia could invade Ukraine. But he just said that war has ruled the day. 
 
He talked about the 17 million Ukrainians who are now in need of humanitarian assistance because of Russia's invasion. And we're expecting 
 
 to hear from the Secretary of State Anthony Blinken. He is also going to reflect upon the warning calls from the United States before Russia invaded 
 
 last year. Russia's denials that it was going to invade. And now he's going to clearly articulate how important this moment is and what the 
 
 international community, all of these nations needs to do together to continue putting pressure on Russia to back down and continue supporting 
 
 Ukraine. 
 <br>[10:25:14]
 
Of course all of this comes as we are marking the one-year anniversary of the invasion, and the Biden administration has had a really momentous week 
 
 in terms of showing up and demonstrating that they are going to be, you know, long-term committed to supporting Ukraine. And the secretary of State 
 
 is sort of making the closing argument, if you will, as the Biden administration rolls out incredible new sanctions on Russia today, going 
 
 after those who are evading the sanctions that are already in place. 
 
And also as they're calling for a diplomatic solution, but also realistically saying that Ukraine needs more battlefield support, 
 
 announcing $2 billion in additional military support to Ukraine today as well. 
 
ANDERSON: Let's be quite clear. This year has been a bruising one, Kylie, hasn't it, for the United Nations Security Council itself? Questions about 
 
 its effectiveness, its efficiency, quite frankly its raison deter, given that of course Russia sits as a permanent member. And we are looking at 
 
 what is a wider group as we listen into the special session today. This is a group that gets to play a part in the Security Council. 
 
But ultimately, those top five permanent members have really been unable to push the needle at all on what is going on with this war from the 
 
 perspective of the United Nations because with Russia on board they are ineffective. 
 
What chance at this stage that there is a complete rethinking about what the United Nations, with its Security Council, can do going forward? 
 
ATWOOD: It is a great question. And I think you point out the fact that Russia has this veto power and that enables it to stand in the way of the 
 
 Security Council really being able to get anything effectively done. But what we did see yesterday, and I think it's important to note that U.S. 
 
 officials will point to just the widespread opposition that this body, that the United Nations allows to put on display with 141 countries opposing 
 
 this invasion, saying that there's a need for peace in Ukraine. 
 
That isn't a small number, so while Russia is effectively able because it sits on the U.N. Security Council to prevent that body from doing much, in 
 
 terms of the whole, there is still a strong message coming out of the United Nations in opposition. Now what that turns to in terms of actual 
 
 actions at the United Nations takes altogether is another question. But what we have seen the United States do is turn to allies who are reliable. 
 
So the sanctions today that were rolled out with G7 allies to make those sanctions have more of an effect not just cutting out those entities from 
 
 the U.S. financial system, but also from the German financial system, from the French financial system, from the Brits. So that is how they are trying 
 
 to have an effect, and you know, go after Russia in terms of a widespread effort here. 
 
ANDERSON: Yes. It's fascinating, isn't it? Keep an eye on what's going on to the U.N. Security Council for us, and we will get back to you when we 
 
 hear Antony Blinken speak because I think it's important that we get our viewers a sense of the U.S. position there today. 
 
Amongst those who stood with Russia last night, let's just remind ourselves that the U.N. General Assembly, Belarus, North Korea, Eritrea, Mali, 
 
 Nicaragua, Syria, China and India of course abstained. 141 countries voting to get -- you know, to find an end to this war which is really important to 
 
 remember. 
 
Still to come, if you stand for freedom, stand for Ukraine. One of the many signs held across European support rallies today. We'll have more on that 
 
 after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:32:07]
 
ANDERSON: Well, you're looking at the scenes of Trafalgar Square in London where people came out to show their solidarity on the first anniversary of 
 
 Russia's invasion of Ukraine. 
 
Well, we are waiting to hear from Ukraine's president. He's set to give a speech marking a year on from this invasion. 
 
Tensions are high across the country. Extra security measures are in place in cities and towns as the country braces for potential Russian attacks. 
 
Alex Marquardt joins us now live in Dnipro in eastern Ukraine -- Alex. 
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Becky, you're absolutely right. This is a country that has been on edge, bracing 
 
 for what may come today on this anniversary. There was certainly an expectation of what Ukrainian officials have called provocations by Russia. 
 
 It is now going on 5:30 p.m. here in Ukraine. We have not seen anything major so far today. Here in Dnipro a number of air raid sirens. 
 
So people are not just on edge and nervous about what may lie ahead, but certainly reflecting about the past year. It is really extraordinary to 
 
 think, Becky, that at this time last year we were talking about the Russians taking Kyiv. What would happen with President Zelenskyy, would he 
 
 stay, would he flee? Would the Russians even try to kill him? And Kyiv of course is now standing strong. It is even thriving. 
 
It still does come under attack. But people in the capital have been able to go back to work and go back to school. That of course is not the case 
 
 all across the country. Cities and towns in the east have been absolutely decimated. 
 
Becky, I was in the city of Mariupol a year ago when the fighting started. Of course Russia has destroyed that city and taken it over. So we are now 
 
 looking at a fight that is still grinding on the eastern and southern fronts of the country but to the frontlines have been relatively stagnant. 
 
 Russia has been trying to push forward, of course, in the city of Bakhmut where they have made some incremental gains. 
 
They are trying to push forward in the town of Vuhledar where I was yesterday, where they have not have much success. It's believed that we're 
 
 seeing the early stages of a Russian offensive that has not been going well. So as we enter this second year of the war Russia is expected to try 
 
 to take more of the territory in Donbas that it controls and Ukraine is also expected to mount its own counteroffensive -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: There's a piece on CNN.com today, which I thought was really interesting, written by some of our colleagues, and it's entitled simply 
 
 this, "After a Year of Arming" -- hold on for one second, let me just get to President Zelenskyy who has just started speaking. Let's listen in. 
 <br>[13:35:02]
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): You know, I think it is very important what you have been doing for a year. Our invincible Ukrainian journalists, I 
 
 want to thank them all. It is a great power what you have done for strengthening our states. Everybody has fought. The defenders have fought, 
 
 the whole Ukrainian people, and you, you are all an army and also our friends, our partners in the West. 
 
I am sure you know what you have done for us. I think on victory day this feeling will come, and I bow deeply to you for what you have been saying 
 
 about Ukraine and that the world is not forgetting Ukraine and is helping us. Helping us be invincible. 
 
February is a month of invincibility and a year of invincibility. And I thank you all, and I want to thank your colleagues who unfortunately are 
 
 not with us anymore. They died in Ukraine. They have been such people, your colleagues, members of your very important profession, it would be fair to 
 
 honor the journalists with a minute of silence. Those who will be in our memory. 
 
It is important to us, and it is important for them. Thank you. I think we can start without further ado. We can talk. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): OK. Let's talk starting. Please remember to raise your flags and introduce yourselves. Christiane, please, 
 
 CNN. 
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR (through translator): Mr. President, thank you for taking my question. Mr. President, in terms of 
 
 the time frame, it's been a year, and you ask, you told -- you told your armed forces, do you think -- 
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): Thank you for the question. Indeed, I want to very much if each of us, each partner, and we in our country, if we stay 
 
 as one fist, one strong fist and work for a victory, if this is a victory of values, if they stick to their words, to their terms and it's not just 
 
 blah, blah, blah, I believe in it. We have been partners, strong partners, and there is evidence to that. 
 
If we all do our important homework -- our guard's back is very wide. If we all do our homework, victory will be inevitable. I am certain there will be 
 
 victory. I don't think, I want it this year. We have everything for it. We have the motivation, certainty, the friends, you, the diplomacy. You have 
 
 all come together for this, and I think not a single country in the world can stand up independently against a war like this. 
 
Maybe the United States could, but unfortunately they don't share a border with the Russian federation. Nevertheless, it is several countries, Ukraine 
 
 is not alone. We are helped by our friends for our shared values so that this war doesn't spread, so this aggression doesn't spread. We know exactly 
 
 what Putin wants, what the Kremlin wants. The military and the political leadership of the Russian federation. So it is important for all of us to 
 
 be focused and work each in our own place. 
 <br>[10:40:07]
 
And then we shall have victory because truth is on our side. And the children whom we love, and it is the great shame when we lose them on the 
 
 frontline. They are not counting their dead. That is their choice. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Thank you. ICTV. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER (through translator): Good evening, Mr. President. I would like to thank you for your example of invincibility and your faith. 
 
 We all believe in victory. Many international experts say that it is a war of attrition. And that's neither side has enough resources to gain an 
 
 obvious victory on the battlefield and that negotiations are inevitable. How do you imagine these negotiations and what will be the final victory 
 
 for you? 
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): I don't think in theoretical terms how these negotiations will take place and what they are. We take specific 
 
 steps. Ukraine has initiated a peace formula at G20 even though we would, the whole world would like to see it as G19, presented with peace formula, 
 
 a step-by-step plan, and you can see the result of what Russia has done here and how it affects not only our security, because there have been many 
 
 crisis that have been caused by the aggression of the Russian federation. 
 
You know, the nuclear station in Enerhodar, in Zaporizhzhia, is occupied. The food security, all the chains in the Black Sea, and you know, all the 
 
 points on the plan, and we have proposed steps. Today, we can see interest in the implementation of this peace formula and we can see support, and I 
 
 want to thank countries which, 141 countries at the U.N. Assembly, supported our peace initiatives last night. 
 
And the next step, as I see it, as much as possible as they say. I would like as many as possible states involved in a founding summit. So that it 
 
 is effective, productive, and to make sure that it actually happens. With a large number of countries involved. I am working with my team and with 
 
 partners to make sure that not only our strategic partners supporting us are represented because from the very first days and seconds of this war we 
 
 have been working to involve representatives of various continents. 
 
We want Latin America involved. And I would want this and we are taking steps to involve the great African continents in the peace formula at this 
 
 summit. We're also working -- to be honest I want India involved, I want China involved. And it's true, our task is to involve absolutely everybody 
 
 and to show here is respect for territorial integrity for the U.N. charter, for the rights to live. and the more countries we involved from various 
 
 continents, the more powerful our support will be. 
 
And our peace formula, you know, I think it's quite democratic. We did it in a democratic way. The approach is simple, to reduce risk. The risk of 
 
 fewer countries supporting us. We would like some countries to support nuclear security, one point on the plan, or environmental security. A lot 
 
 is mind, as you know, and we can see. And we can see the result. And so there are many points on the plan, and we have proposed it. 
 
And there is the end to the war. It is an important point because we need security guarantees. And this is necessary. It should be a package. The 
 
 security package for Ukraine. For Ukrainians. And we can see that this is a war that has a huge effect and so we need security guarantees for Europe. 
 
 That's what I understand. So, as soon as there is implementation and therefore respect for international law and for people of Ukraine. 
 <br>[10:45:02]
 
And if it is implemented, we will come to the diplomatic end of this war. But until then, we need to make sure that there is respect. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Mexican TV. Wait for your microphone. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): You recalled the U.N. resolution over 140 countries voted for the withdrawal of Russians from the Ukraine. 
 
 What would you say to the minority of countries which did not support this resolution or abstained. 
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): In order to understand what war is, what the effect of war is, and the losses because you don't only lose territory, 
 
 you lose people, living people. And if you've not been at war, and you haven't fought or you haven't lost, you don't know the pain. The pain of 
 
 course is for each person. It's difficult to get this information through. And that's why we work with you every day. 
 
So that this understanding doesn't come from direct contact with war. But it's a weak position to be distanced, to be at a distance and to say, well, 
 
 we're not sure. But how can you be sure? Does it need to take war and loss, war and torture, war and rape for people to become aware of the 
 
 consequences of this bloody war? It's very clever but it's sick. The leadership of the Russian federation. 
 
And that's why we need diplomacy. We need journalism to bring this, to get this through. And it's difficult for us that there are a number of 
 
 countries opposed to this. And -- but, look, 141 are in favor. They do respect territorial integrity and sovereignty. And this is the response. 
 
 How these countries, what their attitude is to the aggressor, yes, the aggressor must leave a sovereign territory. How shall we work with the 
 
 others? We are working. 
 
I believe Ukraine needs to make steps for were to come towards the countries of the African continent. We have worked a long time. For a long 
 
 time we have not paid enough attention to them. And I think that's a big mistake. And that's why we have a large program to extend our ambassadorial 
 
 presence in the region and also look at our grain from Ukraine and other initiatives about food security. 
 
So we need to make daily investments into peace. And I think we have wasted time, for a long time, since our independence. We've wasted time, and 
 
 that's why we're now fighting for independence. So this is no accident. There was no strong fist of Ukrainian partners. I'm glad it is there now. 
 
 But it isn't complete. There are some missing from the strong united fist. And I will tell you who's missing. The African continent, Latin America, 
 
 they are very important. 
 
And I would like to hold a conference. I'd like to hold a summit of Latin American countries with Ukraine. And it's difficult for me to leave the 
 
 country. For this meeting, I would. I will want to get it through to them, to their media, to the society. You know, the crown will not fall from my 
 
 head. I am ready. Our diplomats are ready to work 24/7. Where else can we get extra hours? We will do it. 
 
And that's how we should have worked for the last 30 years. Unfortunately, it is unfortunate that the war -- it had to take the war for us to start 
 
 this process. But nobody expected this of a neighbor, Russia, that they would do this. That they would want to destroy us completely. And that's 
 
 why this isn't correcting mistakes. I want to emphasize I don't have criticism. I don't want to dwell on the past. 
 <br>[10:50:04]
 
I am looking ahead to the future. We need the world's complete support and we shall win. And we are working on it. And this dialogue, it is absolutely 
 
 fair. It is a dialogue with many countries. We have worked on rallying the countries of Europe. Yes, not only the E.U. There are other countries. 
 
 There are countries with various neutral status. We work to change this neutrality for non- neutrality towards war. 
 
And we worked a lot daily on it. And the army worked on it. Because victories on the battlefield give you certainty. Nobody likes a loser. 
 
 However horrible this may sound but that is true. Everybody wants to be a winner. And everybody has to work hard inside the country and outside. 
 
 That's the only chance. That's our only chance to win. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Colleagues from Yalta European Strategy. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Thank you very much. Mr. President, your fight for your country has taken you to the height of morality and 
 
 truths. From high moral ground from which you can ask for help from the West. But their fight for accountability, for war crimes, has not been very 
 
 effective. And that's been rather slow. 
 
Are you going to demand a reform of these systems? Will you insist on the speediest definition of the moral right and wrong in this situation? Will 
 
 you insist the accountability systems are developed in Ukraine and Ukrainian, remembering that the country supporting you, if they were in the 
 
 same situation as you, they would demand that. 
 
ZELENSKYY (through translator): Thank you for your question. It is difficult to answer your question. It contains all the answers. It is a 
 
 very deep question. It is very risky this point about justice. It's in our peace formula. We can see it. 
 
As for institutions, let's talk about a tribunal. It is important. Every step starts with political support and political unity. Yes, the forum of 
 
 the U.N. is not universal maybe, but there isn't a bigger forum where you can bring together politically so many countries. I don't see it yet. So 
 
 maybe we can use this forum to create a special tribunal for the crime of the Russian federation, for the crime of aggression. 
 
We are also working on a special mechanism for reparations to compensate the losses, for the losses caused by Russian aggression against our people 
 
 and our country. It is a huge piece of work and we are working on it, the diplomats, the president's office, Kostin, Yermak, Kuleba, they are all 
 
 working. The prosecutor general, his office. Everybody is working daily for this to work. It is a complex mechanism. And to be honest most countries 
 
 are afraid. 
 
And actually I have to say that other countries they are cautious. They are afraid of setting up tribunals. 
 <br>[10:55:01]
 
You might understand why that is. It's a matter for responsibility. But before you go and establish something in your country, you need political 
 
 will and unification. And U.N. has been very useful in that respect because any government, country or leader can receive support to that process. And 
 
 we're working on that as well. We are convinced that the resolutions will be supported and voted for. 
 
We're working with certain countries that we see as crucial for the matters of tribunal. We see them as leaders. This is actually the Netherlands. We 
 
 are working with Mark Rutte, we are working with Mr. Rishi Sunak from the U.K., with other countries as well. We are thinking about the compensation 
 
 mechanism. There has already been a few steps already. And our Baltic friends are very helpful and Baltic trio and Poland they have been 
 
 supportive along the way. They are supporting us with everything we ask for. 
 
Why is it so hard? Because, well, to address the first part of your question. These institutions that you referred was set up a long time ago. 
 
 They haven't been through this type of immense aggression and this bureaucratic system does not give a clear answer to the question of when 
 
 the justice will be served or the fairness will happen. And for those who lost their homes, they economy, everything, they want justice now. And it 
 
 makes sense that they want justice and fairness. We have specific examples. 
 
We are working on the matter of prisoners of war and Andriy, in particular, there are other colleagues they were taken at great care to check the 
 
 condition of the prisoners support. As you've heard there have been is tortures. And now the red cross is an international institution. They 
 
 didn't managed to the prisoner of war, to check their condition. They hardworking, insisting no. We were insisting on working hard. 
 
We were doing our best, paying immense effort to get our men and women out. But to this day, we do not have access to the prisoners of war. And this 
 
 year, the year is a year of the full scale war. But we have to member that the war began in 2014. And we know that there are 125 Crimean Tatars that 
 
 are political prisoners. What is happening to them now? 
 
I remember early into my presidential term, we were returning people back to Ukraine. Some political prisoners. Everybody thought they were held in 
 
 Moscow. But that wasn't the case. They were very, very far in the regions. And it was only thanks to Ukrainians, to the ombudsman, et cetera, and we 
 
 work with the OECD way back when there were attempts at the Normandy foreman. 
 
The OECD had to verify a lot of matters related to the security issues. It was very, very hard. There was method of authority of power. And you know, 
 
 I am tired to hear one answer from many institutions. They keep saying we don't have the authority to do it. So no universal mandate, et cetera, et 
 
 cetera. But nonetheless, headed by Antonio Guterres, and us, we became more protective. 
 
The (INAUDIBLE) came to Ukraine and we helped organize the corridor to transport grain with the help of Turkey. So persistent, being persistent 
 
 and being committed to change institutions is what helps. Actually this war helps highlight weaknesses. Weaknesses in Ukrainian institutions, in the 
 
 E.U., on the continent in general. 
 
END