Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Bank Admits "Material Weakness" in Financial Reporting; U.S. Stocks Rally on Bank Turnaround, CPI Data; Zandi: Inflation is Moving in the Right Direction; A look at Taiwan's Significance to the U.S. and China. Aired 9- 10a ET

Aired March 14, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN HOST, FIRST MOVE: A warm welcome to "First Move", great to be with you as always. And our focus remains the global 
 
 reverberations caused by the dramatic collapse of two U.S. banks and as many days we're talking Signature and SVB. After a turbulent Monday, 
 
 however, across stock markets, and particularly financials things do look a touch more stable today.
 
But despite the rush of regulatory support, questions still remain about the explicit safety of cash deposits. And that's just going to take some 
 
 time to calm. For now, welcome improvement across the United States after Monday swings the DOW as you can see, attempting to rise up to five days of 
 
 declines.
 
Today is all about the inflation complication for the Federal Reserve too. And the good news is there are no surprises, at least in today's consumer 
 
 price data. We will discuss all the details shortly. For now, as you can see Europe holding steady too, crucial to the tone and about 10 pre-market 
 
 for U.S. regional banks that saw their shares punished on Monday session.
 
They were down some 60 percent or more, in some cases, just take a look at those a dramatic about term for first republic, in particular there to some 
 
 real bounces, which are that at least at this stage, if pre market will temper it but its good news. The word today that cash outflows at these 
 
 institutions has also eased thanks to those deposit protections and the emergency loan access announced over the weekend a contributing factor no 
 
 doubt.
 
But of course less cash on deposit at these banks and we can balance sheets too means potential softer earnings and less ability to lend. Moody's is 
 
 now putting 6 regional banks under review for potential ratings downgrades. Some might say it's a little like closing the barn doors after the horses 
 
 have bolted but not me, of course.
 
Sharp losses over in Hong Kong and Tokyo banking stocks falling to their lowest level in three months also fresh fears about Credit Suisse over in 
 
 Switzerland amid new accounting problems that it shares falling to all-time lows and it's not just about the stability of global banks today.
 
It's about how the potential instability impacts Central Banker's ability to curb inflation. That was a tongue twister. First up, of course, are the 
 
 Federal Reserve and the importance of today's U.S. consumer price data new numbers showing the CPI rising 6 percent year over year last month?
 
So that's in line with expectations, month over month inflation in line as well. All this could give the fed the breathing room to pause rate hikes 
 
 next week, especially with the ongoing banking concerns. Clare Sebastian joins us now on this. The question is Clare, does it because we can call 
 
 this cooling based on the monthly data?
 
But it's still lofty, and it still poses a prevalent problem for the Federal Reserve, particularly in the face of the broader instability that 
 
 we've seen for Financials talk us through these numbers and what you think?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I think even though this is an annual deceleration and inflation, Julia the 8th consecutive one, it does 
 
 show, if you look into it, that inflation is persistent, and it is at 6 percent still triple the Fed's target. Of course, the biggest contributor 
 
 of all was shelter that accounted according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics for 70 percent of the month on month increase in consumer 
 
 prices.
 
That is something of course, that's essential housing is essential, you can't get away from that. So that is sticky food was up as well, the energy 
 
 did come down. The interesting thing, if you look at the charts is that while it's clear that the core, CPI core consumer prices appear to have 
 
 peaked in the U.S. in the middle of last year, and had been coming steadily down.
 
Since then, core CPI, if you strip out food and energy, it's a little less clear that peak is a little less clear, if you look at that chart. So I 
 
 think that's something that policymakers will be watching. And certainly, if you look ahead to the Fed meeting, the Fed funds futures in our pricing 
 
 and a higher probability of a 25 basis point a quarter percent rate raise next week when the Fed meets than they were before we got those CPI 
 
 numbers.
 
So it's clear that the market thinks the Fed will still have reason to act, despite the chaos that we're seeing the contagion potentially in the 
 
 banking sector. And the idea perhaps that crisis in the banking sector could essentially be doing some of the tightening for the Fed as a result 
 
 has pointed out that if banks are scared, they might stop lending and that could tighten financial conditions in it. All of that, of course, could 
 
 play into the Feds calculus next week.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and those are the different things that they've got to consider at this point, the financial instability, the fact that now they 
 
 have to think about the banks and whether or not the instability that we've seen reduces lending which to your point would be disinflationary and put 
 
 some downward pressure on inflation, but they also don't want to send the message that the first sign of potential trouble.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
Rate hikes don't go higher, because to your point, they have to do the work the problem is and it goes to the court the issue in the financial sector 
 
 as the higher the interest rates go, the more pressure on the bank holdings of these banks, and the bigger that on paper, sort of balance sheet gaps 
 
 that they have.
 
SEBASTIAN: Yes, and I think, you know, all of this makes for a significant. I mean, they always have a balancing act in some ways, but this makes for a 
 
 particular one, this time, because as you say, it's these rapid rises in interest rates, that essentially is at the heart of what went wrong with 
 
 Silicon Valley Bank.
 
They didn't protect their balance sheet rates went up, that reduced the value of their holdings. And they ended up in this situation, of course, 
 
 combined with the volume of uninsured deposits, they had on their books. I think the Fed has to concentrate on evasion, that is part of its dual 
 
 mandate, financial stability as a separate issue.
 
So it needs to be seen to be doing that. I think it also has reputational issues to consider here it is, of course, the bank regulator; it's launched 
 
 its own review into its handling of Silicon Valley Bank, its regulation and its supervision. So it's facing questions on that side, but it does need to 
 
 keep its eye on the ball.
 
When it comes to inflation, it's come this far, Julia and while it's facing multiple calls, from some quarters, to pause and wait, I think momentum is 
 
 now mounting certainly, if you look at the markets for a quarter point rate rise next week.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and one might also argue that the Federal Reserve does have macro policy and financial stability tools, and could use them both at 
 
 the same time, but it might send people off to sleep. Clare Sebastian thank you so much for that!
 
OK, the blame game begins and what contributed to the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and the tech sector is pointing the finger at CEO Greg Becker 
 
 for presiding over the second biggest U.S. banking failure on record. Joining us now is Matt Egan clearly balls for drops. Talk to us about the 
 
 blame game and where the finger pointing begins and ends?
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Well, Julia, listen, we don't know all the facts yet, but there's plenty of blame to go around. I mean, where were the 
 
 regulators here? In hindsight, there were some red flags. Silicon Valley Bank had rapid growth that was highly exposed to one sector, and it had a 
 
 lot of uninsured deposits.
 
Also, you and Clare were just talking about the role of the Federal Reserve and these rate hikes. But there's also a lot of questions about the 
 
 mismanagement at Silicon Valley Bank itself. I talked to a current employee at the bank, who really pin the blame on CEO Greg Becker.
 
Particularly how they broke the news last week, that they needed to raise a lot of money, rather than announcing that they had a hole in their balance 
 
 sheet, but its being quickly filled they sort of said, you know, we have this hole, and we hope it's going to be filled pretty soon.
 
And that just led to this panic that we saw this classic run on the bank, you know, on Thursday alone, $42 billion dollars was yanked out of this 
 
 bank. That is a lot of money. It was a run on the bank, by the end of the day, by the close of business. They were negative, they had a negative cash 
 
 balance.
 
So they ran out of money and so this employee at Silicon Valley Bank, he told me that this was, "absolutely idiotic". What the CEO did in terms of 
 
 how they announced this, on top of that, of course, was the mismanagement of the balance sheet in the first place. Now, I should note that the CEO 
 
 has reportedly apologized internally to employees about what went down.
 
But also, you know, I talked to a Yale Professor Jeff Sonnenfeld, who is a preeminent expert on management issues. And he agreed that the CEO did miss 
 
 handle this situation. And that help led to all of this money coming out. Sonnenfeld put it this way, he said, "someone lit a match, and the bank 
 
 yelled fire".
 
CHATTERLEY: That's an interesting way to put it also interesting that you didn't sort of dig into the details of whether or not a rollback of 
 
 regulation back in there in 2018, in some way played into this too, which I think is also part of the politicization of this moment, which I think you 
 
 would expect, and that will reconvene on that. Thank you so much for that report.
 
Now, the fight against rising prices, of course may not be over for the Federal Reserve. But there are questions now and whether the Fed may be 
 
 forced to pause its rate hike regime to prevent more banks from collapsing as Clare was just discussing. Let's get some context.
 
My next guest says the shocking fall of Silicon Valley Bank should be a wakeup call to the banking industry, and its regulators. Joining us now is 
 
 Former Vice Chair of the FDIC, Thomas Hoenig. He's also leading the Kansas City Federal Reserve during the 2008 financial crisis. Sir fantastic to 
 
 have you on the show!
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
It doesn't get better than new in terms of experience of both the challenges that we face, but I want to tap into the FDIC hat part of your 
 
 career if you wouldn't mind and just the short term in terms of response that we've seen based on what was announced for Silicon Valley Bank and for 
 
 Signature Bank. Can we now assume that if another bank fails, that uninsured depositors in that bank will be protected?
 
THOMAS HOENIG, FORMER VICE CHAIR OF FDIC: Well, you cannot assume that because under the rules for these situations, the Silicon Valley Bank was 
 
 bailed out under the systemic exception, which says, you get the Fed and the FDIC and the Treasury agreeing that if this bank were to fail, and 
 
 people were to lose money, that you'd have run on all the banks.
 
And that is a special exception. And then otherwise, you need legislation in order to do this, because Dodd Frank ended the ability to just bail out 
 
 banks, as you plead. So if another bank were to do this, to find them in this position, they would have to use that special exemption once again.
 
And I think that would be probably somewhat difficult in this political environment. Now, whether they would need to is less clear, because one of 
 
 the other provisions that the Federal Reserve announced with this bailout was that banks could now pledge their government securities that are 
 
 underwater at par, and receive money from the Federal Reserve.
 
So that they have this liquidity source that Silicon Valley was not able to get under the circumstances. And so this should allow banks to fund their 
 
 liquidity needs much more effectively than Valley Bank was able to do.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and the hope that's enough of a support, but just so that my audience understand what you're saying is in order to protect uninsured 
 
 deposits in future bank failures, you're arguing that bank, again becomes systemic. And if you're arguing that bank becomes systemic or is systemic, 
 
 then arguably, it should be under the requirement to have broader stress tests every year, which many of these smaller banks simply aren't.
 
And you can't have it both ways. So let's talk about the plan going forward. What should the FDIC do going forward? And how better actually, 
 
 can it predict these kinds of failures, or at least material stresses as a result of what we're seeing in terms of market price action? This was 
 
 clearly a unique case of tech sector decline, government bond price decline, but we should be able to predict this better surely.
 
HOENIG: Well, when you are in an environment where you raise your interest rates by a factor of at least 25, you're going to have shots. I mean, 
 
 that's just comes with the territory. And so they should understand that. And I'm sure that they're looking at banks across the country, to see which 
 
 banks might be most exposed to a liquidity crisis, given the rise in interest rates.
 
But I think, you know, one of their difficulties now is that they have worked very hard. They, the FDIC and the Fed and the Treasury have worked 
 
 very hard to reassure people that their money is safe. So people now expect that even uninsured depositors will be bailed out going forward.
 
And these agencies will have to clarify that or confirm that going forward. And I think one of the ways they're doing that facility that I described to 
 
 you earlier. Now, the FDIC, they're all looking at these banks very carefully.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I mean because we've argued it both ways now. We've said that they're either going to have to clarify that your uninsured deposits 
 
 are safe, or they aren't. So they actually do need to come out and say it is your point?
 
HOENIG: Well, what they are saying if you've noticed is the banks; the banking industry is very sound. And they're hoping people rely on me.
 
CHATTERLEY: Trust me I' m a lawyer, yes.
 
HOENIG: I know yes, I think yes. Well, yes, you have to have a lawyer in here. And they are going to have to write a memo saying that if another 
 
 bank faces this that means a systemic bill. Now, let me tell you one other thing that is very clear, if it's a smaller bank and it fails, the FDIC can 
 
 do what's known as a purchasing assumption transaction.
 
Under a purchasing assumption transaction, they sell it to a new owner. Another bank that sound and in doing that, they sell all the deposits, 
 
 insured and uninsured, to that institution, so no one loses any money. And that has been the primary practice for decades now on bank failures.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
And that's the practice they'll take going forward. In this instance the shock came so quickly that apparently they didn't have a chance to build, 
 
 prepare what's known as a bid package. That is, they know bank is likely to fail. They get other banks to see if they're interested in buying the bank, 
 
 these banks do a quick due diligence on it, and they bid to own the bank.
 
And that is probably how future failures will be handled by the FDIC and that would not require any special provision. And so that should give 
 
 uninsured depositors comfort. That is the most likely way that the FDIC will handle future. Now, there's, no one can guarantee that, that has been 
 
 the practice and that should be the probably the assumed process going forward from here.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, your point is a very valid one, it sorts of doesn't help with SVB and it doesn't help with the crisis that ensued. But at least 
 
 everyone's now aware of the problems and looking at all of these banks, and the plan will be in place very quickly.
 
I want your Fed hacked now, please, because you've said clearly that the Federal Reserve is in a tough situation. But inflation is also a tough 
 
 situation, and they need to continue to raise rates. Would you argue that they should continue to raise rates and raise rates at the next meeting, 
 
 next week?
 
HOENIG: Well, I would argue, yes, they should raise rates, the expectation was a quarter points that they started talking about 50 basis point but 
 
 they should raise rates, because their primary issue right now is inflation. And they have dealt with this immediate crisis and hopefully 
 
 going forward, people understand purchasing assumption.
 
But even if they don't, they need to go forward, because if they don't go forward, they risk repeating the period of the 1970s. Where they raised 
 
 rates, they have you have a problem, they back off, inflation rises a little more, they raise rates, they back off, and inflation rises even 
 
 more.
 
And so they started at the beginning of the decade of the 70s with 3 percent, whatever inflation, it rose to four, and by the end of that 
 
 decade, inflation was 14 percent, because it didn't follow through. So they really, that's got to be their priority, they're going to have to follow 
 
 through.
 
Zero interest rates for over a decade created this problem, they have to go through the end, they have to stay the course and bring this inflationary 
 
 situation down or it will only get worse.
 
CHATTERLEY: So it's like that game of Whack a Mole. What your message is to the Fed is don't end up playing a game of Whack a Mole with inflation and 
 
 interest rates, you just have to stay the --?
 
HOENIG: Yes, that's exactly right. They have the tools to handle bank and there are going to be bank pressures are going to be there. When you raise 
 
 interest rates as much and you have a long term asset, you put downward pressure on those assets. So that's something the industry knows, the Fed 
 
 knows, and they have to recognize that.
 
But in the meantime, they'd better get inflation down or this problem will only become bigger. The future prices will only be larger. So take care of 
 
 your problems in priority and move forward.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, if you think this is bad, you wait. Former FDIC and Fed official. Yes, agree. Thomas Hoenig there, Sir thank you, I appreciate your 
 
 perspective! Now from one banks collapse to struggles at Credit Suisse, the bank has admitted to "material weaknesses" and its recent financial 
 
 reporting.
 
It lost $8 billion in 2022, and scrap bonuses for its top executive team. Anna Stewart joins me now. The bonus things, quite frankly, at this point 
 
 completely irrelevant it seems they're reporting an $8 billion net loss for 2022 but also material weaknesses in the financial reporting. How do we 
 
 even believe that the losses now that they're reporting are accurate?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: I mean it's incredibly difficult. And of course, this comes after scandal after scandal, issues and failures of risk 
 
 management issues around corporate governance. So it's really hard actually to know how this fits into all of it and when these stories, frankly, we'll 
 
 stop what happens next.
 
Now, according to the bank, according to the report today, they say they failed to adequately identify potential risks to financial statements, and 
 
 I'll show you some of the statement that they have released to see what you make of it. Says the Board of Directors of Credit Suisse concluded that 
 
 this material weakness could result in misstatements of account balances or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement to the annual 
 
 financial statements of the bank.
 
That said, they say that full year results that they have posted today are unaffected and they also say that the years of question from the SEC last 
 
 week, which were 2019 and 2020. They say the statements they released then fairly present in all material aspects, their financial situation, IE there 
 
 are no issues there.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
Very hard to know what to make of all of that and whether that will be enough to assuage the many concerns of clients and investors outflows have 
 
 continued they hit a record peak, in terms of client outflows in October of last year. Those have continued.
 
They have stabilized, but they certainly haven't reversed and looking at the share price, down around 2.5 percent right now, it was down 5 percent 
 
 earlier today, it was down 9 percent yesterday, with SVP. Also dragging down the sector and listen over the year, this bank has lost 70 percent of 
 
 its value and I don't see it stopping anytime soon at this rate.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's a lot of flow here. That was my observation, investors flowing away, depositors flowing away. And if you're cutting 
 
 bonuses, you can probably add talent to that too.
 
STEWART: And I think that's a big problem. That was one of the first things I thought looking at all this is what must it feel like to work there? And 
 
 how difficult will it be for this bank to retain and recruit talent, the executive team has changed so much. I'm not sure there are many people that 
 
 have been there for more than a year or two.
 
The Chairman is waving his $1.6 million share award for his first full year, unsurprising, the board will not be getting their bonuses. Frankly, 
 
 that is unsurprising as well. There will be a payout for employees, of course and the board particularly if this restructures works.
 
But that feels a long way off at this stage and I can't imagine it feels great to work at this bank right now. I would say that a sinking ship is 
 
 probably a metaphor too far, but it does keep springing leaks, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it's a leaky ship. Anna Stewart, thank you very much for that. We'll say no more. More "First Move" after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move", a goodwill gesture. That's what Russia is calling its agreement to extend the Ukraine grain export deal for 
 
 a further 60 days. The current term is set to expire this Sunday. Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Zelenskyy says the country's future could 
 
 hinge on the outcome of Eastern battlegrounds.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: The situation in the east is very tough and very painful. We need to destroy the enemy's military power 
 
 and we will.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
Bilohorivka and Marinka Avdiivka and Bakhmut, Vuhledar and Kamianka and all other places where our futures being decided where our future, the future 
 
 of all Ukrainians is being fought for?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: And Ivan Watson sent this report from Kramatorsk.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): We're in this Eastern City of Kramatorsk because you can see, this is part of the 
 
 destruction caused by what Ukrainian Officials say, was a Russian strike hitting a three storey apartment building in this town. The Authorities say 
 
 at least one person was killed, another is in critical condition.
 
Other people wounded as well. The explosion eyewitnesses say happened exactly 6 hours ago at 8:30 in the morning, and it has shattered windows 
 
 all throughout the courtyard here where there are other similar buildings and at a kindergarten, which is just behind where Tom is right now 
 
 shattering all the windows there.
 
One of the remarkable things about what we're seeing right now is no one's complaining. No one is crying. People are just getting on with the work of 
 
 cleaning up the destruction, of cleaning up what is left of their homes. For example, as you can see, somebody's taking their collection of books 
 
 out of their apartment, which probably is not going to be livable, for the near future right now.
 
This is not the first time that the city has been hit by a deadly Russian projectile. It has been pounded before by Russian rockets and missiles. We 
 
 are located about 25 kilometers away from a very active frontline 15 miles and I've operated in those areas in the past couple of days.
 
The artillery is thundering kind of around the clock there there's a huge Ukrainian military presence there. This kindergarten that I visited 
 
 thankfully mercifully had no children there. They were evacuated the kindergarten has been closed for some 6 months. This is part of the reality 
 
 of what people are living in Ukrainians in Eastern Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Ivan Watson reporting there. OK, coming up after the break had different kinds of bond market is the U.S. Financial System shaken not 
 
 stirred. Economist Mark Zandi sees it shaken not rattled. So I guess that's you know, near enough his thoughts after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move"! In a much better tone on U.S. stock markets at this moment a Tuesday turn around perhaps I don't want to 
 
 jinx it. But we are seeing improvement as you can see across the board in early trade crucial to today's lift I think and CPI rising 6 percent 
 
 overall last month, month-over-month, numbers were in line too.
 
Today's data could give the U.S. Federal Reserve some breathing room to hold rates steady next week given recent pressures on the banking sector. 
 
 Banks also giving the markets a boost here too crucial the strong balance that we're seeing in the U.S. regional banks that obviously tumbled during 
 
 Monday's session all due to Silicon Valley Banks contagion fears, First Republic Bank leading the advance as you can see there, where are we now?
 
And also important today, a firming up in bond yields after the historic multi decade falls. We saw in the previous session, even given today's rise 
 
 tenure yields, they remain well below the almost 4 percent levels we saw in recent weeks. This will give banks important breathing room too especially 
 
 those holding on to treasuries that have lost value at least on paper. Of course, you didn't crystallize that loss until you sell them.
 
Plenty for investors to consider today let's take a closer look at the inflation data and the Fed's future path. Mark Zandi is the Chief Economist 
 
 at Moody's Analytics and joins us now. Mark there's always something happening when I speak to you lively, I think would be the term we could 
 
 use for the past few days.
 
Let's assume we're in a black box and looking at the inflation print that we saw today. Treble, the target for the Federal Reserve, would that number 
 
 alone justify raising rates next week and if so, how much?
 
MARK ZANDI, THE CHIEF ECONOMIST AT MOODY'S ANALYTICS: So Julia, you're asking, all else being equal? Don't look at the banking--
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I want to ignore everything else.
 
ZANDI: OK, all right. Fair enough. Yes, I think if you just saw that inflation print, you'd say, OK, look, it's still on the hot side, the 
 
 economy's still strong. We're creating a lot of jobs unemployment slow. Yes, I would raise rates, probably a quarter points if I were on the Fed 
 
 meeting next week. But of course, you know, lots of other stuff going on here. But by itself, yes, I think would justify rate increase.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. But I just want to do that comparison. So now we get outside of the black box, and we bring in everything else that's going on? 
 
 Do you think they stand pat next week? Or do you think they move?
 
ZANDI: I do. Yes, I do, right? I mean, the banking system is under a lot of pressure. A lot of that goes back to the very rapid increase in now high 
 
 interest rates. And, you know, the Fed took some pretty extraordinary measures here.
 
You know, with the other regulators in the in the Biden Administration, but the Fed set up this credit facility for banks to use, if they need 
 
 liquidity if they need cash so in that context, so hard to imagine that they would actually raise rates.
 
Why not pause, take a look around, see what damage this events in the banking system has created, and then make a decision, you know, at the May 
 
 meeting. So I suspect they're not going to raise rates at the meeting next week.
 
CHATTERLEY: Thomas Hoeing just said to me, they can't do that. And the reason they can't do that is because inflation is still three times higher 
 
 than the target. They have to keep going and not risk of whack-a-mole situation, where they simply don't get rates high enough to control 
 
 inflation.
 
But I think one of the interesting questions that the Fed will also be asking them and you correct me if I'm wrong, is what the disinflationary 
 
 the potential disinflationary consequences of the bank stress that we've seen whether it's that, particularly for the smaller banks they decide to 
 
 lend less?
 
Whether consumers, given the concerns about the stability of the banks, perhaps decide to be a little bit more reticent? It's tough to predict at 
 
 this stage, but what are the medium term consequences of what we've seen over the past week, do you think?
 
ZANDI: Yes, I think that's exactly right Julia. I mean, I think you want to see, first of all, there's a lot of uncertainty with regard to what is 
 
 going to transpire here in the banking system. I think you would want to wait and see.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
You know, what is the broader fallout on the on the system and then as you point out, what is the impact on lending bye by banks and ultimately on 
 
 what it means for the economy. You know, it feels like given what regulators and the administration have done and what the Fed has done.
 
That is going to staunch the problems in the system, and the economy is going to be fine. And we can get back to fighting inflation. But you know 
 
 we got to figure that all out. It's just too early to know precisely.
 
So I think caution would dare you to take a pause here. And the other thing to consider is, the economy is slowing, growth is slowing. And inflation is 
 
 moderating. You know, it's still way too high, as you say trouble. You know what the inflation target of the Fed is, but it's moving in the right 
 
 direction.
 
If you go back last summer, at the peak inflation was 9 percent. It's now 6 percent. It feels like by the end of this year, it's closer to three. So 
 
 given all that, I'd say, hey, let's just take a breath here, pause and take a look around and see what the implications are, you know, for the economy 
 
 here in the next few months.
 
CHATTERLEY: Prioritize. I think the point is, as you're saying, let's just bring up the chart, a second of this smaller regional banks, because 
 
 fingers crossed, what we're seeing, at least in early trademark is a bounce back and I'm talking significant double digit bounce backs to some of the 
 
 banks that were a concern, some of the smaller regional banks.
 
That's the top line that you can see in front of you. I mean, through an example Mark fest Republic's up 60 percent. So it's we're winding the 
 
 losses that we saw yesterday. Do you think we've seen the worst? I know it's tough to call?
 
ZANDI: Yes, I think so, right? I mean, given the very aggressive action of by the Federal Reserve, by the FDIC, by the Biden administration and the 
 
 U.S. Treasury, you know, what actions are saying is.
 
You know, the government has the banking systems back and will do whatever is necessary to ensure that the problems in SVB and Signature Bank don't 
 
 bleed out into the rest of the banking system. So yes, I think that's right.
 
That's exactly what I would have hoped for and expect is that we see these bank stocks, the government is saying, with crystal clear voice that, you 
 
 know, they've got the bank banking systems back, and they're not going to let it fail and not go down an untoward path. So it makes a lot of sense 
 
 that the stocks are coming back today.
 
CHATTERLEY: I've lost count in the number of the number of people over the past four days who've asked me about the stability of the banks, what they 
 
 should do with their deposits, whether their money should be in a big bank versus a small bank, whether they should have money in a number of 
 
 different banks.
 
They're all reasonable questions, I think to be asking at this point, Mark, have you also been asked these questions numerous times, by friends by 
 
 family and I just wondered, you wanted your wisdom. What have you been saying to them?
 
ZANDI: Yes, Julia absolutely. I mean, people are nervous. And, you know, I reasonably so. But, you know, I think it's fair to say that if your money 
 
 is in a bank, depository institution, or credit unions, you know, you its money, good, you're not going to have any problem, getting that money out 
 
 of the bank.
 
Whether it's under the 250k, you know, FDIC insurance limit, which that is for most Americans, you know, more than adequate. But even if you have 
 
 deposits that are more than that, in a bank, you will be fine. The government has, as I said earlier, your back, so no reason to worry.
 
Now, having said that, you know, it is a reminder that, you know, it would be it'd be wise to have if fortunate enough to have savings of more than 
 
 250k, you want to keep that dispersed across the banking system, you don't want to have all your money in one bank.
 
It doesn't make a whole lot of sense to do that in the context of what you're observing now, but at this point in time, if your money is in a 
 
 bank, credit union, its money good. You're going to get your money. No problem.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I all I would say am we just seen a period of time where people couldn't access the money, even if it was protected. So just make 
 
 sure you've got access to quick cash, even just for a short period of time, and then keep calm.
 
Might very quickly last time we spoke, we were debating, no landing, hard landing, soft landing, you said slow session, which was my new word. I have 
 
 about 30 seconds. This changed the slow session that you predicted.
 
ZANDI: No, I feel pretty good about things. You know, obviously, when rates are rising, you know, that puts pressure on the economy on the financial 
 
 system, and it starts to shake and that's what we've been observing today, in the last couple of days.
 
But the system held holding together well, and again, we've got the administration and regulators on the case and makes me feel confident that 
 
 you know the economy is going to struggle here as because rates are high and they're going to go higher with inflation and but when we look through 
 
 it all we're going to get through without an actual economic recession or downturn
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: So actually you're shaken but not stirred even if the markets for a level--
 
ZANDI: --We were shaken but not stirred I get it I that didn't dawn on me but I was music Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: Mark Zandi. Thank you for that all right coming up on the show submarine under the spotlight how China is reacting to a U.S. Defense deal 
 
 with Austria and Britain next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move"! China condemning a security deal between the UK the United States and Australia to supply the Australian 
 
 military with nuclear powered submarines.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WANG WENBIN, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON: The three countries have completely ignored the concerns of the international community and 
 
 gone further down a wrong and dangerous road.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Will Ripley joins us now. I think it's no surprise here that Beijing would react with concern.
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, and react even before the official announcement was made. Now of course wasn't a surprise 
 
 they've been saying that this is going to be a pretty big deal.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
First, it wasn't a surprise they've been saying that this is going to be a pretty big deal. And it certainly is a game changer in a lot of respects. 
 
 Julia, when it comes to, you know, supplying nuclear submarine technology to Australia that in 25 years will transform their capabilities and in the 
 
 short term allow for the rotation of U.S. and UK nuclear submarines into Australia.
 
Therefore, you know, bolstering the underwater deterrence that the United States still holds out quite an edge. In the submarine space over China 
 
 Julia, granted, China is making a lot of progress. But submarines, aircraft carriers, they're still decades behind the U.S.
 
And so this certainly presents a problem for China and their naval ambitions, which is why you heard such sharp rhetoric from the top all the 
 
 way down Xi Jinping. And, you know, every MOFA spokesperson, basically saying that the United States is trying to contain China.
 
 But the U.S. believes that China's global influence and military movements pose a threat to democracy, democracy here in Taiwan, and in other places 
 
 around the world.
 
So that's why in addition to this submarine deal you also have in the U.S., basically appearing to prepare for a long term struggle with China 
 
 expanding its military presence in the Philippines encouraging Japan to expand its military to expand its own military after years of pacifism, and 
 
 also selling billions of dollars and unprecedented number of weapons to this self governing democracy here, Taiwan Julia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY (voice over): Chinese fighter jets screaming over its skies, military ships sailing off its coast, daily occurrences for Taiwan, living 
 
 under the constant threat of a possible Chinese attack. Beijing's communist leadership claims Taiwan as part of its territory despite having never 
 
 ruled it tensions rising across the Taiwan Strait since Nancy Pelosi is visit in August, the first visit by a U.S. House Speaker to the island in 
 
 25 years.
 
REP. NANCY PELOSI (D-CA): We will not abandon our commitment to Taiwan.
 
RIPLEY (voice over): Who can forget China's response last year those days of large scale military drills encircling the island firing ballistic 
 
 missiles over Taiwan? Analysts fear this may be repeated again next month. Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen expected to meet U.S. House Speaker Kevin 
 
 McCarthy.
 
RIPLEY: So in saying that the United States would come to Taiwan's defense attack?
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA): Yes, we have a commitment to do that.
 
RIPLEY (voice over): But the U.S. has reasons to worry about a Chinese invasion of Taiwan, protecting valuable semiconductor chips. Taiwan is a 
 
 global leader in semiconductors tiny chips that power everything from computers to cars, the island producing 70 percent of global supply.
 
Defending democracy, losing democratic Taiwan to Communist China would shattered us credibility in the Indo Pacific region, protecting us 
 
 alliances, Asian countries would face an even more powerful China. A heavily shriveled police state with little freedom of speech, the stakes 
 
 are indeed high, but experts do believe there's reason for optimism.
 
RIPLEY (on camera): Do you think the U.S. and China are headed in a positive optimistic direction?
 
LEV NACHMAN, POLITICAL SCIENTIST, NATIONAL CHENGCHI UNIVERSITY: The idea that conflict between the U.S. and China is inevitable. I strongly disagree 
 
 with that meaningful channels of communication between the U.S. and the PRC that helps us minimize unknowns it helps us minimize confusion and 
 
 misunderstandings and ultimately, that that's good for Taiwan.
 
RIPLEY (voice over): U.S. China relations on a downward spiral since that suspected Chinese spy balloon bursting months at Beijing DC diplomacy. As 
 
 to Democratic allies, the U.S. and Taiwan get even closer. Taiwan's President and the third in line to the U.S. presidency meeting on American 
 
 soil. As tensions escalate, all eyes will be on China. And where is this all headed?
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Well forgive me for their confusion there. But that was entirely my fault. I was going to pick up on what we were saying there 
 
 about China in the United States and Australia. And just make the point that it comes at a time when China's talking about building the military 
 
 into a great wall of steel with potential profound consequences for the likes of Taiwan.
 
Which has become a sort of economic and geopolitical pawn in many ways, between all of these nations, given the importance of semiconductors, as 
 
 you and I have discussed, it was interesting to hear that comment there with the gentleman saying.
 
Look, you know, despite the deterioration in relations, and certainly the rhetoric heating up, this perhaps less caution than you might imagine of 
 
 the risk of Taiwan or conflict. Let's call it that over Taiwan?
 
RIPLEY: Yes, I mean, look, it really depends on the timeframe for a Potential move on Taiwan which China has signaled that it's going to do 
 
 although they haven't signaled when it will happen they say they want it to happen peacefully.
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
The Taiwanese people have said in overwhelming numbers, they do not want to be absorbed by China. So that makes a peaceful absorption takeover, if you 
 
 will, out of the question. And that raises the question then.
 
OK, so is it going to be military and when so the U.S. is sending weapons in these this submarine deal is kind of more of a long term strategic plan 
 
 to counter try to train his navy, it might not have any immediate impact given the naval situation across the Taiwan Strait, Julia.
 
But even you know, these other potential issues that are coming up that could escalate things even further, the U.S. still talking about new curbs 
 
 on U.S. companies investing in China, you have the question of whether they're going to restrict or block altogether TikTok and, of course, China 
 
 pondering whether it's going to start sending lethal weapons to Russia and Ukraine. So there is just a lot right now.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. It's a lot. I mean, we're talking about these submarines being seaworthy, I think by the late 2030s, to your point, and you've 
 
 mapped it out perfectly, and goodness knows where we are at that point. Thank you for joining us so late in the evening, and thank you for putting 
 
 up with me, just generally. We appreciate you, thank you. Well, More at 'First Move' after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:55:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: I ever talked again so that's it for the show 'Connect the World' is up next I'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END