Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: World Leaders At G7 Summit Discuss Support For Ukraine As Russia Continues Missile Attacks On Kyiv; President Biden To Return To Washington D.C. To Continue Debt Ceiling Negotiations With Republican Congressional Leaders; Federal Judge Rules Alleged Pentagon Leaker Jack Teixeira To Remain In Jail While Awaiting Trial; New York City's Roosevelt Hotel Reopened As Welcoming Center For Asylum Seekers; Florida Governor Ron DeSantis Responds To Disney Canceling Office Building Project In Florida; Montana Governor Sign Bill Banning TikTok Statewide; Colombian Military Searching For Four Children Who May Have Survived Plane Crash In Amazon Jungle Three Weeks Ago; Previous Year's Flight Delays And Cancellations In U.S. Likely Due To Understaffing At Florida Federal Air Traffic Control Facility; World's Richest Man Looking To Pass Business Empire To Children; Police Lieutenant Arrested And Charged With Lying To Federal Investigators About Communications With Proud Boys Leader Enrique Tarrio; Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis May Bring Election Interference Charges Against Former President Trump. Aired 2-3p ET.

Aired May 20, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Obama is a case study of navigating the third rail in American politics. Over time, what you see is Obama finding his voice in that space to be able to say the things that were necessary to prick the consciousness of Americans, while at the same time maintaining the dignity and respectfulness that people would have expected from the president of the United States. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR:  The CNN original series "The 2010s" continues with "Obama, Legacy on the Line," airing tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. right here on CNN. 
 
Hello, again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
President Biden will officially meet with Ukraine's President Zelenskyy at the G7 Summit in Japan tomorrow. The White House confirming that just a short time ago Ukraine already scored a key victory with the U.S. after the Biden administration signaled it will now permit allies to send F-16 fighter jets to the war-torn nation. 
 
Other G7 leaders have also been meeting with Zelenskyy. They offered their support for, quote, as long as it takes. 
 
G7 meetings are not just about Ukraine. Leaders are also weighing in on how to confront China's increasing military power. CNN's Phil Mattingly is in Hiroshima, Japan. So Phil, can you give us a preview of what the meeting might be like? 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Fredricka, I can give you a preview of the day, because I think that's important in the full context of things. 
 
Yes, there is the bilateral meeting between President Biden and President Zelenskyy, the first face-to-face meeting between the two since President Biden's surprise trip to Kyiv earlier this year. 
 
But there is also a meeting of the entire G7 group of leaders and the other countries that have been involved here, an entire working-group meeting related to Ukraine that Zelenskyy will be participating in as well, which I think underscores the reality of this moment and its import. 
 
There's no question that the Group of Seven leaders have been behind Ukraine and have been steadfast in their support of Ukraine for the course of the last 15 months since Russia invaded, and that wasn't going to change anytime soon. 
 
But as the other countries that have been invited to join the Group of Seven for this summit that have also been participating, Zelenskyy has had an opportunity to speak with, including India's Prime Minister Modi. They have had a more neutral stance on things, much to the frustration, at times, of U.S. and Ukrainian officials. 
 
Having those face-to-face meetings with some countries who haven't always been steadfast, who have tried to walk a middle ground here is critically opportunity for Zelenskyy. And keep in mind, this visit here to Hiroshima follows more than 10 days of going through European capitals, talking to supporters, also and landing in Saudi Arabia, attending the Arab League Summit. 
 
What he's trying to do right now is not just unify support and keep the group together that has been behind him, but try and find new countries, new leaders that will get behind him, come off the fence to some degree. 
 
And more importantly, than anything else, continue to secure commitments that are tangible, related to lethal assistance, related to economic aid. Those are critical given the moment that this conflict is in. We expect and U.S. officials expect the Ukrainian counteroffensive will launch soon. 
 
And so they need more, and they're very cognizant and very candid about that. I think that has been a defining element of the relationship between President Biden and President Zelenskyy, and I think that will certainly be the case again when they meet in a couple hours, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD:  And then, Phil, while President Biden is cutting his trip short to return to D.C. to deal with the whole debt ceiling fight, how much is that casting kind of a shadow on the summit and other bilateral talks? 
 
MATTINGLY:  Yes, Fred. White House officials often say the president can walk and chew gum at the same time whenever they're asked about whatever the balancing act he's dealing with in that moment. I don't think they ever thought it would be as laid bare as it is here, trying to deal with a potential economic catastrophe back home. 
 
Negotiations simply have not made any significant progress over the course of the last several days, broke down for a couple of hours, started back up again. And officials that I've spoken to have made clear there is no clear progress going forward. 
 
The president has been briefed regularly at the start and end of every single day. They continue to try and say there is a pathway forward here, but leaders have been asking, leaders' advisers have been asking, they've been very clear about that, they want to know that this is going to get resolved. The president says yes but hasn't necessarily backed that up with a resolution yet. 
 
WHITFIELD:  OK, we'll see. Phil Mattingly, thank you so much. 
 
So while President Zelenskyy of Ukraine looks for ongoing support among the G7, there are reminders that the war is not pausing. Russia again struck the city of Kyiv early this morning, making it the 11th time the capital has been targeted this month alone. CNN's Nic Robertson is in eastern Ukraine. So Nic, what does this trip mean for Zelenskyy? 
 <br>[14:05:05]
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  We know how effective Zelenskyy has been about asking for things, putting them on the agenda. Back in the early days of the war, it was just ammunition, help, anti-tank missiles. Earlier this year it was tanks. Then it became fighter jets. And look, he's delivered it. He's got these commitments. 
 
Now, he's going to want to put on here flesh on the bones about when they can come and how much training can be given to how many pilots, and what weapons systems these planes can be equipped with and when they can really be put into battlefield effectively. 
 
Now, President Zelenskyy characterizes how he'll approach this as sort of coordinating, planning with partners, working with them. And this is what the face-to-face nature of being at the G7 in Japan with these leaders, with these key partners, with these big economic powers who have the money to buy the missiles and persuade others to do the same. 
 
Zelenskyy can go face-to-face with them and get them on the same page and persuade them why they need to do it. So he's talking about planning and preparing for our next joint steps, joint steps. He's doing it with them. He wants them to come with him on this journey to support him in the fight against Russia. 
 
Everyone is committed, but Zelenskyy has got his eye on the horizon. It's been the fighter jets, to get the details on that. And it's going to be in the future, security guarantees from NATO. 
 
He'll be building now, laying the groundwork for the NATO leaders summit in July this summer when he's going to want to get detail on those security guarantees, which is the sort of language he's going to need to have in his back pocket when eventually a peace deal comes into sight. 
 
It's fighting. It's all about fighting right now, and it's the details on that that he's going to work on over these meetings Sunday. 
 
WHITFIELD:  OK, and Nic, Ukraine's military says there is some heavy fighting going on in Bakhmut, and Russia's mercenary group, Wagner, had been claiming victory in that city. How can you tell what's really going on? 
 
ROBERTSON:  It's tough, right. Yevgeny Prigozhin, the leader of the Wagner Group on a video in Bakhmut, it looks like Bakhmut, says that the Russians have taken it after, I think he said 224 days, did he say, since October last year of fighting for the city. OK, that roughly tracks with the timeline when there's been intense fighting there. It's been literally over the course of that time, inch by inch. 
 
Do they have all of it? The Ukrainians are saying no, absolutely not. They're continuing to fight for it. What we know from the folks we talked to from around here and from what we can understand and the glimpses we get at the front lines around here, the Ukrainians are pushing around Bakhmut at the moment. 
 
They're trying to sort of circle the city. It's slow. It's really super slow going. And it's tough. And there are heavy casualties on both sides. 
 
So, do the Russians really have control of Bakhmut? I don't think the Ukrainians consider they're moving through that city, but they consider that they're taking ground around it at the moment. Of course, this is just one tiny fraction of a front line that's hundreds upon hundreds upon hundreds of miles. 
 
We're talking about a section here that's just a couple miles. But this is what the Ukrainians are doing. They're looking for where they're going to find their weakness, where that opening could open up where they can barrel through Russian lines. 
 
I don't think and they don't think it is going to be in Bakhmut, but what opportunities can they create with this fight in and around this town right now, that's what they're looking for. 
 
WHITFIELD:  OK, Nic Robertson in eastern Ukraine, be safe. Thanks so much. 
 
Back in this country, a federal judge has ruled alleged Pentagon leaker Jack Teixeira will remain in jail as he awaits trial. The 21- year-old Air National Guardsman is accused of posting dozens of classified documents on the social media platform Discord. CNN's Jason Carroll takes a closer look at the case. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  At one point during the proceeding, the judge raised his voice in order to make his point, saying that this was a defendant who simply did not care who he put at risk. He said several things. He said, for example, what the record shows is a profound breach of a defendant's word that he would protect information and the security of the United States and its allies.
 
Judge David Hennessy went on to describe who was hurt because of what Jack Teixeira had done. He said, who did he put at risk? You could make a list as long as a phone book -- soldiers, medical personnel, Ukrainian personnel, Ukrainian soldiers. We do not know how many people he put at risk. 
 
The government said if you disclose this information, you put the United States at serious risks. And the defendant's response was, "I don't give a" -- expletive. Teixeira's family has also put out a statement saying that they are disappointed about the outcome, but they are going to continue their steadfast support of Jack Teixeira. 
 
The judge had also indicated he did struggle with one portion of this, saying that he was confident if he had released Jack Teixeira on bail that he was confident that he would abide by the conditions of that release. 
 <br>[14:10:08]
 
But then he also went on to say, but when I look at him, I think, what if I'm wrong? What are the consequences of my decision? 
 
Jason Carroll, CNN, Worcester, Massachusetts. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
WHITFIELD:  All right, coming up, a billion-dollar battle. Disney scraps plans to build a massive office complex that would have brought thousands of jobs to the state of Florida. How the governor is responding, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD:  All right, welcome back. Homeland Security says overall migrant numbers at the U.S. border are declining after Title 42 expired. But hundreds are still arriving in New York City each day. In fact, Mayor Eric Adams says 15 more migrant buses are expected in the coming days. That has a growing list of New York counties declaring a state of emergency after Adams said he would be relocating asylum seekers out of the city. 
 <br>[14:15:04]
 
Meantime, a new migrant arrival center is now open in Manhattan's Roosevelt Hotel in midtown. And that's where we find CNN's Gloria Pazmino. Gloria, already about, what, 40,000 migrants are in the city's care, and we've heard again and again the city's resources are stretched thin. So what can you tell us about the kinds of accommodations that are being made? 
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Fred. You mentioned about 15 buses are expected to arrive here in the city throughout this weekend. We know for sure that at least two have arrived as of this morning. 
 
Now, the buses are coming from Texas, and they're still arriving at Port Authority bus terminal. That's where the city is now connecting the migrants to place them on city buses that are then coming here to the Roosevelt Hotel behind me. 
 
And I want to give you a look inside the hotel. I believe we have some video and some images of what the city has set up inside this hotel. This is supposed to operate as a one-stop welcome center, if you will. It is supposed to be a place where migrants can get connected to the resources that are available. 
 
And I want to just tell you a little bit about what I've seen here this morning so far. I've seen migrants coming in, and I've seen them also coming out of the hotel, being boarded on to a city bus, and being taken to another facility, most likely a city shelter. 
 
While they're inside the hotel, they are connected with medical services, they are provided food and water, a place to shower, go to the bathroom, and to rest. Many of them have been on this very long bus ride from Texas. 
 
So, the idea here is to get them connected to the resources that are available, but those resources are becoming difficult to come by. As you mentioned, Mayor Eric Adams has made it very clear that the city is running out of shelter space. 
 
And the reality here is that the city is going to have to find some more permanent solutions when it comes to housing and sheltering people who are arriving here in the city. As you said, more than 40,000 people currently in the care of the city. 
 
Now, the idea is to have the buses arrive directly here at the hotel. But for now, they're still arriving at Port Authority bus terminal and then being redirected on a city bus here as more and more migrants continue to arrive here in New York despite the low numbers that we are seeing at the border. Fred? 
 
WHITFIELD:  All right, Gloria Pazmino in midtown Manhattan, thanks so much. 
 
Ron DeSantis says there is zero chance he backs down from his ongoing dispute with Disney. The Republican governor of Florida, who is expected to announce a 2024 presidential run in the coming days, comes on the heels of Disney's announcement that it is scrapping plans to build a $1 billion office complex in Florida. CNN's Natasha Chen has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
NATASHA CHEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Disney has said in a memo that this decision was difficult based on changing business conditions and new leadership, not mentioning politics at all, but it certainly has become part of a major political story just days before Governor Ron DeSantis is set to officially launch his presidential campaign. The governor was making a stop at a diner in New Hampshire on Friday
 
 when he referenced the Disney issue, talking specifically about the company's special tax district around the Walt Disney World Resort. Here he is. 
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS, (R) FLORIDA:  We the people are going to govern. And to put one corporation on a pedestal and let them be exempt from the law, it's not good policy. 
 
It's not free-market economics, and it's not something that our state is going to be involved in. And so we will not change from that. And so they can do whatever they want. I know people try to chirp and say this or that. The chance of us backing down from that is zero. 
 
CHEN:  But certainly, DeSantis' potential 2024 rivals are weighing in. The Trump campaign account on Twitter called him "Ron DeSanctimonious in the mouse trap." Former Vice President Mike Pence spoke on FOX Business on Friday saying that he likes Walt Disney, not woke Disney, but disagrees with the strategy of any government going after a business for disagreeing with its politics. 
 
Pence said that he believes both sides should stand down and that DeSantis should take the victory for parents' rights and move on. 
 
Of course, the whiplash for Disney employees is also huge here because some of them, a couple hundred, have already started to move to Florida. For those individuals, they will be given options, including the possibility of moving back here to Burbank in southern California. 
 
I'm also told that some employees had actually found other jobs because they knew they did not want to move the Florida, and now those jobs are staying in the golden state. So a lot of whiplash here for those individuals and in the political world. 
 
Natasha Chen, CNN, Los Angeles. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 <br>[14:20:09]
 
WHITFIELD:  Whiplash indeed. 
 
Still ahead, it is the strongest measure yet by a state government to restrict TikTok. Montana's governor signed a bill banning the video- sharing app in the state. A group of TikTok users is suing to overturn the ban. We'll have the latest. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD:  A group of TikTok users has sued to overturn Montana's new statewide ban blocking the popular video-sharing app. They allege that the law signed this week by Governor Greg Gianforte violates the First Amendment. Montana's ban attempts to prohibit TikTok from operating in the state and to block downloads of TikTok on personal devices. 
 <br>[14:25:04] CNN Business producer Jon Sarlin joining us now to discuss all of this. Jon, good to see you. So if the law survives in court, could we see other possibly enacting similar laws? 
 
JON SARLIN, PRODUCER, CNN DIGITAL:  That's a great question. This is a significant escalation in the legal fight against TikTok. Previous to this, we've seen targeted bans on federal devices, on state devices. The majority of states have bans that prevent state devices from having TikTok. We've seen that in the E.U. 
 
This ban is entirely different. It would apply to all Montanans. All Montanans who want to use TikTok, they couldn't be able to use it in the state. So other states who are considering bans, and there are obviously a movement, a federal movement in ban TikTok, they're going to be looking closely to the legal challenges like the legal challenge that you just mentioned to see if the courts will allow this action to actually come into effect.
 
WHITFIELD:  So this new law is to kick in to effect in January but would not penalize individual TikTok users in the state. So, help us understand that. 
 
SARLIN:  That's correct. So, the bill would apply to all Montanans, but it wouldn't target them. Instead, the bill targets TikTok itself and the app stores run by Google and Apple who would allow Montanans to download TikTok. It would levy a $10,000 a day fine and it would try to prevent those sites from having Montanans be able to download and use TikTok within the state. 
 
WHITFIELD:  OK, so how will this be enforced? 
 
SARLIN:  So, that's the big question, right. Assume these many legal challenges go through, right. How do you ban and app within a certain state? How do you ban an app from Montanans but not in North Dakota? One way to look at that is to look at gambling apps, right. Gambling apps can be downloaded, but they only work in states where gambling is legal, say in New York state. I'm in California. The same app, which requires your location to use, doesn't work in California. 
 
But this bill applies to Google and Apple on the app store. That's not the case with gambling apps, right. You can download gambling apps in many states. And so Google and Apple are saying we don't have this capability to prevent certain people in certain states from downloading the app. 
 
WHITFIELD:  And so this ban isn't just aimed at TikTok, right? The governor also signed a separated executive order that targets other apps owned by foreign adversaries. So what others apps are we talking about? 
 
SARLIN:  So apps like Telegram and WeChat, who have associations directly and indirectly with foreign adversaries like Russia and China, now will be banned on Montana state devices. So, this is similar to the previous ban that we've seen on TikTok that is targeted at state-owned devices, but this is another step in the ongoing battle on tech that has direct and indirect ties to foreign adversaries like Russia and China. 
 
WHITFIELD:  Wow. Fascinating and complicated. Jon Sarlin, thanks so much. 
 
So, with Memorial Day weekend approaching, so is the start of what's expected to be an especially busy summer for air travel again. And with that in mind, CNN has exclusive reporting on the origins of some of the massive travel delays last summer. Who could forget? In this case, it wasn't the airlines. Instead, the trouble came from a part of the system that most passengers never see. And as CNN's Pete Muntean reports, it could cause fresh troubles again this summer. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It was the summer of air travel meltdowns. Figures from flight tracking site FlightAware showed that last Memorial Day to Labor Day, airlines in the U.S. canceled 55,000 flights and delayed a half-million more. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It was horrible. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  A flight gets canceled, then it's tough to get on another one. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It is frustrating.
 
MUNTEAN:  The blame was mostly put on the airlines, which was mostly right. 
 
PETE BUTTIGIEG, TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY:  The airlines need to be prepared to service the tickets that they sell. 
 
MUNTEAN:  But now CNN has learned from internal documents obtain from a Freedom of Information Act request, that thousands of those flight delays were triggered by repeated short staffing at one federal air traffic control facility in Florida. 
 
The Federal Aviation Administration's Jacksonville Center facility is responsible for controlling airspace used by nearly every commercial flight arriving and departing at Florida's busiest airports. CNN found that last summer, it was short staffed during more than 200 shifts. Documents reveal over seven weeks that the FAA believed staffing problems delayed a total 4,622 flights, nearly one in 10 of all delays statewide. 
 
JOHN TILIACOS, TAMPA BAY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT:  It has just a domino effect throughout the industry. 
 
MUNTEAN:  At Tampa International Airport, executive vice president of operations John Tiliacos began monitoring the staffing problems as passengers began getting stranded. 
 <br>[14:30:02]
 
In June, he wrote the FAA saying, "What's odd to me is that the only FAA facility that seems to be having staffing issues is Jacksonville Center." 
 
TILIACOS:  And obviously asked the question, what are you going to do about it? What is the FAA doing to address the issue so we can get our operational dependability back of track? 
 
MUNTEAN:  In one message, one senior FAA official gave a blunt assessment to FAA acting chief Billy Nolen, "I don't believe we have any excuse other than a straight-up shortage of certified controllers in multiple areas." 
 
PAUL RINALDI:  In many ways the FAA is rudderless.
 
MUNTEAN:  Paul Rinaldi is the former president of the union that represents air traffic controllers. Also revealed in the documents, a whistleblower complaint alleging overworked Jacksonville controllers. The FAA now tells CNN that it has changed leadership at the facility. 
 
RINALDI:  It's a very demanding profession. They have to be 100 percent 100 percent of the time.
 
MUNTEAN:  The FAA has vowed to hire 1,500 new controllers this year and 1,800 next year, but the agency is also warning issues will not be fixed fast. With another key facility in New York roughly half- staffed, the FAA says delays at the areas three major airports could rise by 45 percent this summer.
 
BILLY NOLEN, ACTING FAA ADMINISTRATOR:  We own our part. The industry will own their part. It will take all of us working together. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
WHITFIELD:  Good luck to travelers. Pete muntean, thank you so much. 
 
Still ahead, Colombian officials are scrambling to find four children who they believe may still be alive after a plane crash in the Amazon. The new clues of possible survival, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:35:37]
 
WHITFIELD:  An intensifying search in Colombia, what was first reported as an extraordinary survival story in the Amazon jungle now has the nation clinging to hope. The search for four missing children is now intensifying after new findings that may help pinpoint their location, perhaps. 
 
CNN's Stefano Pozzebon is joining me live from Bogota. So Stefano, has anything new been learned about their whereabouts, why the plane went down, where it is, and its origin? Any of that? 
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN JOURNALIST:  Unfortunately, Fredricka, nothing new across overnight, at least during the early hours of today here in Colombia. Just to make a point on how vast the area that the 100 or more special force of the Colombian military together with indigenous scouts and the father of the four children are scouring through to try to locate them, we're talking about an area that is over 50,000 acres. It's an area that is four or five times larger than the island of Manhattan, for example. 
 
And so, finding the four of them is proving incredibly, incredibly, difficult, and even finding any sign of their presence after earlier in the week there were some footprints when some footprints were thought to belong to the oldest of them. The oldest is Lesly Mucutuy, and one of the techniques that this search-and-rescue operation is employing to locate them is quite literally shouting her name in the middle of the jungle. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Lesly! Lesly! 
 
POZZEBON:  A desperate search continues, but still no breakthrough. Colombian authorities are scouring the Amazon for four children believed to have survived a plane crash on May 1st, looking for any signs of life after nearly three weeks. Earlier reports that the children had been found were later dialed back. The grandfather of the kids ages 13, nine, four, and 11 months, says he is holding out hope. 
 
FIDENCIO VALENCIA, GRANDFATHER OF THE MISSING CHILDREN (through translator):  They already know the jungle. And after that accident, maybe they are hiding. They hide. Maybe they don't realize that they are looking for them. They are children. But we hope that they are alive and have access to water, because water is life. 
 
POZZEBON:  The plane had taken off from the remote area of Araracuara, bound for San Jose del Guaviare. 
 
Details of the crash remain fuzzy, but the same plane crashed in the same region of the jungle less than two years ago, according to the Colombian civil aviation authority. Below the dense forest canopy, rescue efforts carry on around-the-clock. 
 
The Colombian armed forces using dogs to help search for the children following a trail of scattered debris including hair scrunchies and a baby bottle they believe belongs to the youngest. And from above, Colombian's air force using loudspeakers to play messages from the kid's mother in their native language. 
 
In Bogota, the indigenous community is mourning those who died in the crash after it was announced on Thursday that the bodies of three adults, including the pilot and the mother of the four children, had been recovered, and demanding answers for what had gone wrong, while the nation holds its breath, praying for the lives of the four children. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
POZZEBON:  Unfortunately, however, Fredricka, those calls in the middle of the jungle of Lesly have not been answered yet that we know of, or at least we're here waiting to hear from the military and from the Colombian children welfare agency, who is also involved in the research, a positive breakthrough. And it's almost three weeks since that plane first crashed on May 1st
 
 in the heart of the jungle. But still the nation holds some hope to locate them. Fredricka? 
 
WHITFIELD:  It's an extraordinary mystery. Stefano Pozzebon, thanks so much. 
 
It has been almost a year since the horrific school shooting in Uvalde, Texas, where 19 children and two teachers were killed. The community is still searching for answers. CNn's Shimon Prokupecz sat down with families of the victims and survivors, and he is joining us live straight ahead. 
 <br>[14:40:01]
 
Plus, it's "Succession," but instead of on HBO, it's on Wall Street. How the world's richest man is planning his own succession, straight ahead.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD:  All right, it's the real-life version of the HBO series "Succession." Bernard Arnault is the richest man in the world, the head of the LVMH empire, a $500 billion luxury powerhouse, home to dozens of iconic brands like Louis Vuitton, Tiffany, Dom Perignon, and Sephora. 
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
And like Logan Roy in "Succession," he is looking to one of his children to take the reins. CNN's Melissa Bell has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He's on the floor, Todd. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Explain to me what he's doing. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He's moseying, terrifying moseying. It's like if Santa Claus was a hit man. 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  A magnate and patriarch. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I love you. But you are not serious people. 
 
BELL:  Preparing his succession as carefully as he built his empire. Not Logan Roy, but the real world's richest man, 74-year-old Bernard Arnault, worth more than $230 billion, having built the world's biggest luxury goods company, all the while very personally raising, educating, and evaluating his five potential successors. 
 
BERNARD ARNAULT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, LOUIS VUITTON MOET HENNESSEY:  I think my group is controlled by family. So instead of looking every day at the stock market, I look for the next 10 years. 
 
BELL:  All five Arnault children work for their father, 48-year-old Delphine, the chair of Christian Dior, her brother, 45-year-old Antoine who is CEO of the holding company of Christian Dior, and the three children from Arnault's second marriage, 31-year-old Alexandre, who is an executive vice president of Tiffany's, 28-year-old Frederic, who runs Tag Heuer, and the youngest, 24-year-old Jean, the director of development and marketing at Louis Vuitton's watches division. 
 
RAPHAELLE BACQUE, AUTHOR, "SUCCESSIONS, MONEY, BLOOD, AND TEARS":  He is at once an attentive father, a good father, but also a merciless boss, so the children have to work hard. He has a fairly clear idea of their qualities and their weaknesses, and when the moment comes will be able to choose. 
 
BELL:  The $500 billion LVMH dominates the world of fashion with some of its biggest names like Christian Dior and Louis Vuitton. It was built through ruthless acquisition, and like Waystar, is diverse with vineyards, hotels, restaurants, and newspapers. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I had you beat! 
 
BELL:  But it is in the treatment of their children that the fictional and real characters diverge. Far from fostering discord, Arnault has ensured harmony, but with a cold eye on business nonetheless. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, appreciate it. 
 
BELL:  The stakes are huge, the value of the company but also the power that it brings. Like Logan Roy, Bernard Arnault has cultivated his relationships with the powerful, acquiring a vast media empire, and making LVMH a symbol in France. Its headquarters stormed by protesters only the last month. 
 
But while Arnault has sought to protect his children, he's also made it clear what he expects of them. 
 
ANTOINE ARNAULT, CEO, CHRISTIAN DIOR:  Of course, we understand the level of responsibility that is ours. The way we see things is that my father is super healthy and going to work 10, 15, 20, 25 years. His five children are now working together in different parts of the group, but we're very close. 
 
BELL:  An empire carefully built and ultimately soon up for grabs, but so far, without the family drama. 
 
Melissa Bell, CNN, Paris. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
WHITFIELD:  All right, when this week's CNN Hero learned about the thousands of children in juvenile detention centers and residential treatment facilities across the United States, he decided to shine a light on their lost voices. Mike Ball started a songwriting program to allow kids who have experienced trauma to begin to heal. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
(SINGING)
 
MIKE BALL, CNN HERO:  They all had different stories, and the point of what we do is let them tell is that story. Sometimes they're silly, but beneath the silliness, they're really revealing. Sometimes they're really heartbreakingly real. 
 
(SINGING)
 
BALL:  Think about being in a position where nobody's ever cared what you feel. And instead, now, you talk about what you feel and a whole bunch of people go, yes! It's life changing. We can plant a seed in that child of self-confidence and self-worth, it's just so powerful. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
WHITFIELD:  To get an inside look at this songwriting program and to hear more of their songs, go to CNNHeroes.com. And while you're there, perhaps you can nominate your hero. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:54:28]
 
WHITFIELD:  One year ago, a gunman opened fire at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas, killing 19 students and two teachers. Outside the classroom doors, law enforcement waited for too many hours before entering. Our Shimon Prokupecz caught up with some of the family members. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
SHIMON PROKUPECZ, CNN CRIME AND JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT:  What is your understanding of what went wrong that day? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  My understanding is this first group of officers to come in, they're shot at. They retreat, and they never go back in. 
 <br>[14:55:12]
 
They let children die in that classroom. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Am I bleeding? Am I bleeding? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And I can't even explain to you what they'd taken from me. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  He's in the class. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It's more than just lives. Maybe Lexi's gone immediately, but that's what they've taken from me, those answers. Had they engaged immediately. and my child is deceased, then I know in my heart that she wasn't scared very long. But because they waited so long, now I'll never know. I don't know if it was fast, and I don't know if it took 30, 40 minutes, and that's hard. That's hard to sit with. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
WHITFIELD:  Be sure to tune in to an all new episode of "The Whole Story with Anderson Cooper." That airs tomorrow at 8:00 p.m. eastern time and pacific only on CNN. 
 
A D.C. metro police lieutenant in charge of intelligence has been arrested and charged with lying to federal investigators about his communications with Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio who has been convicted of sedition. The indictment lays down a series of encrypted text messages between Lieutenant Shane Lamond and Tarrio, sharing sensitive information about the January 6th Capitol insurrection investigation. CNN's Jessica Schneider has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO TAPE)
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  -- police officer arrested and charged was actually a supervisor in the intelligence branch of the department's Homeland Security bureau. It's alleged that he was communicating with the Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio, even tipping Tarrio off that he was about to be arrested. 
 
So this is Lieutenant Shane Lamond. He was arrested Friday. He now faces one count of obstruction, three counts of making false statements. Prosecutors say that as early as July, 2020, Lieutenant Lamond began using Telegram to provide Tarrio information about the law enforcement investigations that were related to the Proud Boys' activity all around Washington, D.C. 
 
But then when Lieutenant Lamond is being interviewed by authorities about his interactions with Tarrio, it's alleged that Lieutenant Lamond then gave false and misleading statements about his communications with Tarrio, and that's what these charges stem from. 
 
So Lieutenant Lamond's lawyer is now responding, saying this, "Lieutenant Lamond is a decorated officer whose position required contact with extremist groups who sought to undermine our democracy on January 6th, yet he does not nor has he ever supported their views." 
 
Now, Lieutenant Lamond was placed on administrative leave by the police department last year. The department now saying that they are cooperating with federal investigators in the probe. Meanwhile, Enrique Tarrio and several other members of the Proud Boys have all been convicted of seditious conspiracy, obstructing the Electoral College, and tampering with evidence for their role in the January 6th Capitol attack in 2021. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
WHITFIELD:  All right, Jessica Schneider, thanks so much. 
 
The Georgia prosecutor leading an investigation into former President Trump and his allies is now signaling a new timetable for potential charges. In a letter obtained by CNN, Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis announced remote workdays for most of her staff during the first three weeks of August. She also asked judges to refrain from in-person hearings for parts of
 
 that month. The move suggests that Willis expects the grand jury to unseal indictments during that time period. CNN's Sara Murray has details. 
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  A Georgia prosecutor that's been investigating efforts by Donald Trump and his allies to overturn the election in that state in 2020 is now dropping some hints about when she may announce whether anyone could potentially face charges in this case. 
 
In a new letter, the Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis writes to county officials that much of her staff, minus her leadership team and minus any armed investigators, will be taking a number of remote workdays during the first three weeks of August. 
 
She also asks the judges in the county to refrain from holding any in- person hearings or trials during that first three weeks, an indication that she may make her charging announcement then. 
 
What this does effectively is it reduces the number of people who are going to be in that judicial complex in Fulton County, Georgia, when she makes this potential announcement. 
 
She has long been concerned about security surrounding this case and has talked openly in interviews about the racist threats she has faced in investigating the former president. So this security issue has been a big one in driving when she's able to actually make this announcement publicly. 
 
Of course, we don't know who, if anyone, is going to face charges in this case, but we do know the prosecutor has been looking at potential racketeering and conspiracy charges which would allow her to bring charges against multiple defendants at once. Back to you.