Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Trump Pressured Arizona's Then Governor Doug Ducey To Overturn 2020 Election Results; President Biden Unveils Student Debt Relief After Supreme Court Loss; Record Number Expected To Travel For The Fourth; Thousands Of Flights Canceled This Week; Nineteen States Now Restricting Gender-Affirming Care; Exclusive: U.S. Coast Guard Kept Inquiry Into Sexual Assault At Academy Secret For Years; France Braces For Fifth Night Of Riots Over Teen Death. Aired 5-6p ET

Aired July 01, 2023 - 17:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[17:00:50] 
 
PAULA REID, CNN HOST: You are in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Paula Reid in Washington. Jim Acosta has the day off. 
 
And it wasn't just Georgia. There is new evidence tonight that former President Trump also tried to overturn the 2020 election results in Arizona. Trump lost Arizona to Joe Biden by fewer than 11,000 votes. A source now tells CNN that after the contest, Trump called then- Governor Doug Ducey hoping to pressure him into overturning those results. 
 
Sources say Trump also pushed his then-Vice President Mike Pence to help him convince the governor to undo that defeat. 
 
CNN's Jeremy Herb joins us now. Jeremy, we don't have any recordings of these calls, so where is this coming from? 
 
JEREMY HERB, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, this -- we're learning new details here from sources about just how then-President Trump pressured Governor Ducey after the 2020 election. We knew at the time that there was a phone call that Governor Ducey had with President Trump, but the governor didn't give any details about what was said. 
 
Now sources are telling CNN that on this call President Trump pressured Governor Ducey to find enough fraud in his state in order to overturn the election results. 
 
Sources are also telling CNN that the president pressured his Vice President Mike Pence to help with this campaign. He had Pence call Ducey several times and they talked about the election. But a source says that Pence did not actually follow through with pressuring the governor on this specific topic. 
 
Now, of course this may sound familiar because we know previously that President Trump pressured the secretary of state of Georgia Brad Raffensperger to find enough votes for -- for him to win the state. That call was recorded, while this one was not. But there is actually an interesting recording that is notable of the
 
 governor on tape receiving a phone call from President Trump in the middle of him certifying the state's election results. 
 
Let's watch that here. Now, we can't actually hear on this call, but what happens here is the ring tone "Hail to Che" chief plays, and you'll see here the governor grabs his phone, looks at it, and puts it aside. Now this is notable because the governor had said earlier in the year that he had, in fact, changed his ring tone specifically for calls from the White House to "Hail to the Chief". This was so he wouldn't miss a call from Trump or Pence. 
 
Of course in this case he decided he did not want to talk to the former president -- then-president I should say -- while he was certifying the results. 
 
Now, A spokesman for the governor, he downplayed the significance of this telling us, "Frankly nothing here is new, nor is it news to anyone following this issue the last two years." The spokesman he went on to say that this issue was in the rearview mirror, and that it was, quote, "time to move on". So he also said that the governor has not heard from the special counsel on this issue, Paula. 
 
REID: Maybe a lot of people forgot about that infamous "Hail to the Chief" moment. Now Jeremy, what was the consequence for him when he didn't go along? 
 
HERB: Yes, you know, the governor stood by -- here. he certified the results. But he really faced a harsh backlash from President Trump. He's one of several Republican officials in states that Biden won. These were states like Arizona, like Georgia. They were controlled by Republican governors, and Trump wanted them to help. When they didn't, he basically cut them off. Trump's allies in the state in Arizona, they went forward and continued to push these claims of fraud. This is how we ended up with an audit led by a private firm that, you know, that ultimately found that Trump still lost the state, Paula. 
 
REID: Jeremy Herb, thank you. 
 
And the U.S. Supreme Court has wrapped up its term delivering three momentous rulings that carry deep social and financial impacts. All three of the cases were decided by a 6-3 vote along ideological lines. 
 <br>[17:04:53]
 
REID: The conservative supermajority ruled that a Colorado web designer can turn away customers who want a same-sex wedding announcement. Colorado woman cites her Christian beliefs and the court rules that it's an issue of free speech. So many see it as a setback for gay rights. 
 
The court also effectively ended affirmative action in college admissions. The ruling overrules a landmark precedent on affirmative action.
 
And the court ruled that Biden does not have the authority to implement a plan to forgive roughly $400 billion in student loan debt. Some 40 million borrowers would have benefitted to varying degrees. 
 
At the White House, it's time then for, quote, "Plan B". President Biden has unveiled a new plan to provide student loan relief to millions of borrowers. 
 
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez is at the White House. Priscilla, what can you tell us about this new plan? 
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well Paula, they are setting all of this in motion now, that being Plan B. But there's no question that this is a major blow for President Biden and the administration which wanted to provide student debt forgiveness under its plan that's now been struck down by the Supreme Court. 
 
Now it's not clear that this Plan B will provide the same breadth and scope or at least have -- impact as many millions as it would have before this case -- in this case and this ruling, but they are setting it all in motion. 
 
So a few things that that will include. For example, a temporary 12- months onramp repayment program. Then also the Department of Education will not refer borrowers to credit agencies during that period. 
 
Now it will take a few months for this to come to fruition according to the White House, but White House officials had been working on this behind the scenes leading up to this ruling. 
 
It was always a possibility that the Supreme Court was going to rule against the administration on this. And so over the last few months officials have been preparing what is now this Plan B to try to provide some debt relief to millions of people who had been hoping that they could see some of those loans forgiven under Biden's plan. 
 
Now, the president was asked in his remarks yesterday whether he provided false hope to millions of people, and here's what he had to say -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I didn't give any false hope. The question was whether or not I would do even more than was requested. What I did I thought was appropriate and was able to be done and would get done. I didn't give borrowers false hope, but the Republicans snatched away the hope that they were given. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVAREZ: Of course this is a signature issue that dates back to President Biden's campaign in 2020. But it's also a political one, and it's going to be one that as you heard there they're going to lean into. President Biden referring to Republicans there saying they snatched this away. He also tweeted earlier today very similar words, that it's Republicans who took this away from millions of Americans. 
 
So you can expect that we'll be hearing more about this adverse campaign kick into gear, and this not only becomes a signature issue for this administration but a political one going into 2024, Paula.
 
REID: Priscilla Alvarez, thank you. 
 
And let's return to the Supreme Court ruling against affirmative action in college admissions and what that means for the future of racial diversity on campuses across the country.
 
Joining me now is Khala Granville, the director of Undergraduate Admissions and recruitment at Morgan States University. That is, of course, the largest of Maryland's historically black colleges and universities. 
 
Thank you so much for being with us. We know that Morgan does not use race as a factor when reviewing applications, but you were actually a diversity recruiter for seven years. So what is the immediate and the long-term impact of the Supreme Court's ruling this week? 
 
KHALA GRANVILLE, DIRECTOR-UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS AND RECRUITMENT, MORGAN STATES UNIVERSITY: Absolutely, thank you for having me. It really just changes I think the process and the technology. For so long many -- myself and many of my colleagues have used holistic admission. So race was one of many factors, and often -- was a very last factor when looking at a student's propensity to be successful in college. 
 
Those most successful indicators obviously being their academic qualifications. And so I think to some degree again it changes our process in terms of how the application moves through the cycle. It also means that our technology, all of those systems that support that process of applications will need to adapt, as well. 
 
Maybe we have to hide these factors in that particular technology. Maybe it's added to the end. Because let's not forget federally we have to report race and ethnicity information back to our state governments and our federal government at some point in order to support our enrollment, particular goals that we have. 
 <br>[17:10:02]
 
GRANVILLE: And so, you know, as far as the step-by-step work, many of us are already partnering and, you know, doing all the things that we can in our communities to support (INAUDIBLE) students. 
 
So I think the critical parts are going to be the process and technology. 
 
REID: It's been a long time since I applied to college. When you say the technology, what exactly are you referring to? 
 
GRANVILLE: So we have, of course, CRMs, things like SalesForce, Slate is one, (Inaudible) has products, and so those products help to stand up how that application is actually received. You may remember or heard of the common application. Each of our institutions sometimes have their own applications, and again those are stood up by those particular technologies. And so if it is that again, you know, we don't know now, the White
 
 House is expected to release information to us as higher education professionals within the next 45 days on what the implications of this will be on our profession. 
 
But you know, kind of early on I surmised that it's going to be around how that application information comes into our process so that we can adequately make decisions on students without using this information as part of the process if that indeed is what the court decided to do, and that is what the court decided to do. 
 
REID: And how do you advise schools that want to continue to recruit minority applicants and have more racial diversity on their campus? 
 
GRANVILLE: Absolutely. So some of the strategies that have been very successful to me in my career is certainly looking at precollege pipelines to grow that respective and diverse applicant base. That was absolutely critical to the work that I'm doing. It's work that I hope to replicate here at Morgan State. 
 
And so using those opportunities to get in front of students as early as possible, going all the way to kindergarten and creating that culture around college attainment and particularly their college attainment coming into our institution as an option as they think about their college search process into the high school years. 
 
Also partnerships with community-based organizations that are already supporting diverse student communities. There's a wealth of them. And there are many organizations nationally that help to kind of coalesce all of those CBOs together so that when institutions like Morgan States have an opportunity to get in front of them early on. 
 
Also investments and partnerships with tribal nations and indigenous communities, and particularly the investment part because many of the students in these communities not only are wanting to come to college, but they want to take what they're learning in college, particularly in those health fields, and bring that information back into their communities to improve their community overall. 
 
Also looking at Direct Admission Programs. This is one way to eliminate barriers for all students to be able to progress through their college process much faster versus having to start with prerequisites and then going into applying for the major and so on. 
 
Also relationships with our high school counselors. I'm very much against having to require our already overwhelmed and overworked high school and college counselors to write more recommendation letters. It's not an effective process. But what we can do is actually going into high schools with more intentionality to learn more about what are the particular challenges and opportunities that are existing in this particular educational space, and how can our university help to support you as a professional and also your students in this space and in this community of learning. 
 
And then finally, strategic partnerships with K through 12 school districts, being right here in Baltimore City Public Schools, Morgan States has already made a commitment to support Baltimore City students. I will have a student who is also going to be in that public school system, and so it's very important that each of our institutions are deciding to strategically invest in providing their resources academically, whether that be dual enrollment programs or whether that be bringing those students on for campus visits. 
 
You know, again, promoting that college-going college in the kindergarten space so, again, you're building those pipelines that are going to be ultimately impactful as you're getting into recruitment in that senior year. 
 
REID: Khala Granville -- thank you. 
 
GRANVILLE: Thank you. A pleasure. 
 
REID: People are traveling in record-breaking numbers this weekend. Next, how air travel is doing today after massive delays over the past couple of weeks. 
 <br>[17:14:57]
 
REID: And later, new restrictions on transgender care. A doctor joins us to explain what it means for her and her patients. 
 
Plus, burning cars and clashes in the streets of Paris. A live report on the outrage after police killed a 17-year-old. 
 
You're in the CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
REID: This holiday weekend could see record-breaking heat. More than two dozen locations across the country have the potential to break records with excessive heat warnings out west and in parts of the southeast and Texas. More than 66 million people remain under heat alerts today. 
 
Across the southeast, a combination of high temperatures and humidity is resulting in triple But. Those temperatures will go down a little over the next few days going into the Fourth of July. And that extreme heat comes during one of the busiest travel weekends of the year. 
 <br>[17:20:00]
 
REID: AAA estimates that more than 50 million people will hit the road or board a plane this weekend. Yesterday alone, TSA screened more than 2.8 million people, beating out pre-pandemic records and setting an all-time high traveling record since the founding of the agency in late 2001. 
 
CNN's Gloria Pazmino joins us now from Newark Airport with more.
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Paula, it's already shaping up to be a record-breaking weekend. The transportation security administration tells us they've already screened more than 2.8 million passengers. That's the highest number since the agency was created in 2001. And the number is expected to increase.
 
The agency estimates they will screen 17 million passengers by the time the holiday is over. Now we are at Newark Liberty International Airport, one of the busiest airports in the country. And passengers who I've been speaking to tell me that they came prepared, especially after watching the travel disruptions that so many passengers experienced last week as a result of bad weather and staffing shortages. They came to the airport expecting to see some problems. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I actually think the weather is more of a problem than anything else. I think if you fly certain airlines, everything seems to run smoothly, but the weather has been more of a problem than anything. Do you agree with that? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Absolutely. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're seasoned travelers, right. We know how to deal. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Zero problems whatsoever. I've seen a bunch of stuff on social media of people in airports for days. But no, I got lucky. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAZMINO: Now even though things haven't been so bad, United Airlines which has a hub here at Newark Airport has really struggled to bounce back following those disruptions from last week. In fact, as of Friday, they were still dealing with cancelations and delays, and United's CEO Scott Kirby sent a letter to his employees calling last week "one of the most operationally challenging weeks I've ever experienced in my entire career". 
 
In the meantime, Kirby says that he is trying to work with the FAA to improve conditions for passengers and his workers following last week's meltdown. 
 
And from what we can see here, looks like what is expected to be a record-breaking weekend is off to a good start, Paula. 
 
REID: Gloria Pazmino, thank you. 
 
And don't miss Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg on CNN "STATE OF THE UNION" tomorrow at 9. 
 
It's certainly been a rough week for airline passengers. Disruptions to thousands of flights left many people stranded in airports across the country. United Airlines passengers saw the worst of it with more than 3,000 cancelations in just one week. 
 
Joining us now to discuss this is The Points Guy managing editor Clint Henderson. Clint, all right. What is going on out there? 
 
CLINT HENDERSON, MANAGING EDITOR, THE POINTS GUY: It's been a mess again. I feel like we have this conversation around every major holiday. But I was really excited because we got through Memorial Day, and it wasn't too bad. Then of course we had last week. Things are looking a little bit better today. So far United's only had to cancel 2 percent of its flights. But look at the delays. Delays are still 20 percent. That's not great. 
 
So still a lot of problems at Newark Airport, but it looks like things are recovering finally. 
 
REID: So a lot of effects out there feeling helpless, frustrated. What rights do they have when they're stuck in one of these nightmare scenarios? 
 
HENDERSON: So I wish I had better news for the passengers of America. Unfortunately, when it comes to weather issues, the airlines have a lot of latitude to say sorry, we're not going to do much for you. 
 
So you have to really rely on the goodwill of the airline in these situations that can be blamed on weather, and the airlines can blame almost anything on weather. That's why some people are calling for a passenger bill of rights to have stronger things in place to take care of passengers like they have in Europe where you get compensated in case of delays or cancelations. 
 
But really when it's weather, you're on your own. I would call, I would ask the airline to make you whole again, keep your receipts, make a case for yourself, and United today is sending out 30,000 miles to some of its affected customers. So that's at least a step in the right direction. 
 
However, they are not saying they're going to pay for hotels or meal costs or any of that. So book your travel with a credit card that offers travel protections, but you really have to be your own best advocate. 
 
REID: And the Federal Aviation Administration says it's facing a significant staffing shortage with air traffic control. So that sounds like it's not going to get any better out there. 
 
HENDERSON: Yes. I'm really worried about the rest of the year because of this air traffic controller shortage. You saw the CEO of United blame the FAA in part for the lack of air traffic controllers. But this has been a problem that's been ongoing for years and years. They are trying to staff up. They're trying to get this solved. 
 <br>[17:25:01]
 
HENDERSON: I don't think it's going to get solved this year. So the two biggest things you're going to have to keep an eye on are weather and this air traffic controller shortage especially in places like the northeast, it's super busy. 
 
REID: In the midst of all this, today is the deadline for airlines to retrofit their planes with updated 5G technology. 
 
Why are they doing this, especially at this pivotal moment for travel? What is the purpose? 
 
HENDERSON: Well, they've been putting it off for some time, and the wireless companies are eager to roll out the next generation of wireless capabilities so you can stream. It will make phone reception better at airports. 
 
The problem is some of those signals can interfere with altimeters on planes. And so they've been restoring, replacing, and sometimes updating altimeters in planes, but only about 80 percent are finished. 
 
So this could be an issue really only when there's bad weather and they have to use these instruments to land. So far today it's not impacting things, but it could if we start to see low visibility conditions. That's when it can really play havoc with air traffic. 
 
REID: Clint, it is rough out there for travelers. Thank you so much for your good tips. We appreciate it. 
 
HENDERSON: Good to see you. 
 
REID: More states are imposing restrictions on transgender rights. A new ban today started in Georgia, and next a doctor who specializes in transgender care explains how this new law is affecting her patients. 
 
You're in the CNN NEWSROOM. 
 <br>[17:26:26]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[17:30:38]
 
REID: The fight over transgender rights is reaching a fever pitch across the U.S. Nineteen states have enacted laws restricting gender- affirming care for transgender people, mainly children. 
 
A law signed by Georgia's governor in March banning some of those treatments for minors goes into effect today. 
 
Joining us now, Dr. Izzy Lowell. Her practice, QueerMed, works to expand access to care for people who are transitioning. 
 
Doctor, first, I want to get your reaction to this new law. You work with a large number of trans children in the state of Georgia. How will this impact them? 
 
DR. IZZY LOWELL, FOUNDER &amp; PHYSICIAN, QMED/QUEERMED: Thank you so much for having me. 
 
My reaction is really bewildered about why they chose to pass this law, why politicians think they know more than doctors. 
 
For example, all of the major medical organizations in this country agree that hormone therapy is beneficial for transgender teens. And really any arguments to the contrary aren't based on data or science. REID: As you know, there's a lot of strong sentiment about this across
 
 the country. Supporters of this ban argue children aren't mature enough to make decisions about medical procedures. What is your response to that criticism? 
 
LOWELL: Well, we're not talking about something elective here or the choice to have a medical procedure. This is really about somebody's identity. 
 
And sure, we may not know what we want to be when we grow up, we may not know our sexuality or other preferences, but we know our gender. 
 
Gender is well established at a very young age, 3- and 4-year-olds have an understanding of their gender, and that only solidifies as children get older. 
 
So if someone has identified as a certain gender from the age of 3 or 4 and that's been consistent throughout their childhood and their life, it's very clear that that will remain for the duration of their life. 
 
It's not a simple medical decision. It's more about that person's identity. And most people can think back to their whole life and say, I've always known I was a woman, I've always known I was a man. It's the same thing here. 
 
REID: One of the Republican lawmakers who helped draft Georgia's law is characterizing it as, quote, "a compromise," saying that it doesn't go as far as some states because it exempts drugs known as puberty blockers that suppress sex hormones and pause some of these changes. 
 
But you say that that's not enough, that's not a viable solution or a true compromise. Can you help people understand? 
 
LOWELL: Yes. It's really a false conception. When used appropriately, puberty blockers are completely reversible. Ideally, they should only be used for one or two years at most, until someone can start on hormone therapy. 
 
What we're talking about here is starting someone on a puberty blocker at age 10 and continuing them until 18. Eight of these, of these medicines is not appropriate. It prevents bone development. 
 
If someone is only on for a year or two, that catches up. For eight years, that may never catch up. They could be at risk for pathologic fractures for the rest of their life. 
 
It doesn't stunt or block physical growth, it blocks intellectual development, personality development, psychological development. 
 
So what we're talking about here is having someone who has the mind and body of a 10-year-old with extremely fragile bones who's a freshman in college. It's just not a viable solution. 
 
REID: So you were recently quoted as saying that you would stay up until midnight Friday night, last night, to help children before the law took effect. 
 
Can you describe to us what the last week has been like for you in your practice? 
 
LOWELL: Yes, we've really been scrambling. We had a little more time than that. We have been trying to get as many people in as we can for the past month. 
 
And thankfully I didn't have to stay up until midnight. But I did see a patient last night actually, a 15-year-old who has been diagnosed with gender dysphoria about a year ago, and has been thinking about hormone therapy. 
 
She ideally wanted to start hormones six months from now, but she and her family ended up coming -- seeing me last night because they didn't want to lose that option completely. And so she started hormones sooner than she would have wanted. 
 <br>[17:35:04]
 
I think, in this case, that was -- given her options, which weren't great, I think that's the best choice she could have made. But it's not ideal. 
 
I just don't think anyone thought through the implications of this law and the effects it would have and the things that it would push people to do. 
 
REID: You know, trans rights, particularly for children, it's a very hot-button increasingly political issue in this country. What is your message to people that say that you should not be doing this kind of work when it comes to children? 
 
LOWELL: I think these cases are so clear. They probably haven't met a transgender person or a transgender teen or child. 
 
Gender identity in the patients I see is so straightforward. It's not a complicated thing. It's not a question thing. It's just clear. And the patients do so much better once they get started on these medicines. 
 
It's just -- straightforward. It's absolutely clearly the right thing to do for these patients. And so I think anyone who's not seen that personally may not understand that, but it couldn't be clearer. 
 
REID: Dr. Izzy Lowell, thank you for joining us. 
 
LOWELL: May I add, we're focusing next on North Carolina where a similar law goes into effect August 1st. Anyone who needs us, we will see all the patients in North Carolina before then. 
 
REID: Thank you. 
 
And up next, a secret report from the Coast Guard reveals sexual abuse was ignored and even covered up by high-ranking officials. Our investigation next. You're in the CNN NEWSROOM.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[17:40:47]
 
REID: Now a CNN exclusive about a damning report into sexual assault at the Coast Guard Academy that officials kept secret for nearly four years. The Coast Guard only came clean and told members of Congress about it after CNN started asking questions. 
 
Here's chief investigative correspondent, Pamela Brown. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): The multi-year investigation was called Operation Fouled Anchor and uncovered a history of rapes and assaults at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy that were ignored or even covered up by high ranking officials.
 
But Coast Guard officials have kept the investigation secret since 2019 and never released the report. Only approaching Congress this month after CNN asked about it. 
 
During the investigation, the Coast Guard found evidence of dozens of cases of sexual assault, even though they only looked into a specific timeframe from the late '80s to 2006, overlooking many years when other assaults had been reported.
 
A report on the investigation found suspected attackers were not criminally investigated. Punishments, if they happened, were sometimes as minor as extra homework. 
 
Victims sometimes faced punishment for fraternization or lewd acts.
 
Many suspects went on to have successful military careers while victims were sometimes kicked out of the academy. For those who stayed, it could be just as difficult.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was sexually assaulted three times. It was completely toxic and devastating to my sense of self and left lifelong damages to my physical, mental health.
 
BROWN: This young woman is a recent cadet. She graduated in 2022 and says the Coast Guard culture has not changed.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The Coast Guard Academy employs, reinforces and cultivates a system that that thrives on the trauma and pain of women and minorities. It's designed for their failure.
 
BROWN: The Coast Guard secret investigation revealed that female cadets describe survival tactics they had to use while at the academy. They would rig their doors to make it hard to get in, prop rifles against the door or utilize a trash can.
 
And that cadets were hesitant to report for a fear that as female cadets, they wouldn't be taken seriously. 
 
One woman described a fraternity of male cadets that hated women and didn't think women should be in the Coast Guard. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You realize that if you say something, you are blacklisted because now you're the girl who cried wolf.
 
BROWN (on-camera): Even if it really happened?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Even if it really happened.
 
BROWN: It sounds like from what you've described, the survivors are the ones who are punished and those accused of sexual assault go on to thrive.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Exactly. When cadets get in trouble, there is this intense shame, this group shaming.
 
BROWN (voice-over): The Coast Guard did investigate one of this victim's assault but told her they didn't find enough evidence.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I was 17. I needed my mom. I needed so many to stand up for me in those moments and it just -- it broke me.
 
BROWN: Democratic Senators Maria Cantwell and Tammy Baldwin sent a letter Friday to the head of the Coast Guard that called the information, quote, "disturbing" and demanded answers. 
 
They committed to pursuing full accountability for perpetrators and investing in meaningful support for survivors.
 
(on camera): After CNN's report was first published on Friday morning, the Coast Guard sent us a statement, apologizing about the mistakes made in the Fouled Anchor investigation. Saying that, quote:
 
"The Coast Guard fully recognizes that by not having taken appropriate action at the time of the sexual assaults, the Coast Guard may have further traumatized the victims, delayed access to their care and recovery and prevented some cases from being referred to the military justice system for appropriate accountability. 
 
"The Coast Guard owns this failure and apologizes to each of the victims and their loved ones."
 
And our colleagues here on the investigative team, including Blake Ellis, Melanie Hicken, Audrey Ash, we're going to stay on this story as it unfolds.
 
Pamela Brown, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[17:44:58]
 
REID: And this weekend, CNN brings you an in-depth look at the year that changed everything -- 2020. Sunday's new episode of the CNN original series, "THE 2010S," examines
 
 the decade's final year, including the coronavirus pandemic, the economic downturn, the extraordinary presidential election, and of course, massive civil unrest. 
 
Here's a preview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The pandemic moves from China to Asia to Italy, and we're just sitting here thinking we're going to be safe? 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: So far, we have lost nobody to coronavirus in the United States. 
 
(CHEERING)
 
TRUMP: Nobody. And it doesn't mean we won't. And we are totally prepared. 
 
ANTHONY FAUCI, FORMER NIAID DIRECTOR: We were not prepared for a 100- year historic outbreak. 
 
I had always said there will be a level, hopefully not in any of our lifetime, of such an overwhelmingly transmissible and serious virus, respiratory outbreak, that even the best of preparedness is not going to be able to contain it adequately. 
 
It's almost as if you build a dam for a flood and then you get a tsunami. You know, you prepared well, but nothing's going to stop the tsunami. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID: Might be too soon. 
 
Don't miss the final episode of CNN's original series "THE 2010S," tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. Pacific only on CNN. 
 
And thousands of vehicles have been set on fire in France, massive protests that have spread across the country after police officers shot and killed a 17-year-old. The latest from Paris next on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[17:51:15]
 
REID: Authorities in France are bracing for a potential fifth night of violence, deploying 45,000 police officers across the country after more than 1,300 people were detained overnight after protesters took to the streets after the death of a 17-year-old boy. 
 
He was shot and killed by a police officer during a traffic stop earlier this week. Officials say 2,000 cars have been set on fire and hundreds of buildings damaged in major cities across the country. The French President Emmanuel Macron is now delaying his trip to
 
 Germany. The government is resisting calls to impose a state of emergency as of now. 
 
Let's go to Nic Robertson in Paris. 
 
Nic, what is the situation there? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes. Let me paint a picture for you a little bit. You can see we're in the center of Paris. A lot of police vehicles here. 
 
Track around. You are seeing a lot of police vehicles back down this way, down the Champs Elysees. And this is where we have been for the last couple of hours. 
 
We have seen police doing stop and search. We're seeing police chasing, cat and mouse. They have police on motorbikes with passengers, riot police literally dropping them in the streets, corralling crowds, searching the crowds. 
 
No violence, per se, in the center of Paris tonight, no fires, no damage to stores. A lot of the prestige stores on the Champs Elysees are here. We've seen they had wooden boards put over them to protect them. 
 
Through the day, the concern has been that rioters from the suburbs would get into the center of the city. The police at the moment appear to be on top of it. 
 
It is a pivotal night. As you say 45,000 police out across the country. But it really is cat and mouse, the police chasing, corralling, catching, searching, letting go these potential protesters on the streets of the city.
 
But it is in the Mediterranean port city of Marseilles and in Lyon where the police had the biggest and fiercest protest last night. And the interior minister released the elite counterriot police to those cities to try to contain the violence there as well. 
 
The other startling statistic from the Interior Ministry, another 2,000 people detained. The average age was 17. Very young, some of these protesters. 
 
This, a pivotal night in France. But if the police can keep violence off the streets here in the center of Paris, they will begin to feel that perhaps the energy and anger is beginning to dissipate itself. 
 
REID: And the funeral for that teen was held a short while ago. Nic, what can you tell us? 
 
ROBERTSON: Yes. That was in Nanterre. It was a very quiet and respectful service. At the mosque, there was about a thousand people there. We sort of stood off a way from the mosque. 
 
It was so many people there was an overflow of mourners standing in the street. 
 
But this was a moment in Nanterre where police were concerned that it would lead to an outbreak of violence. It hasn't happened yet. 
 
If you look over here, you can see all these police outriders here. These counterriot police are riding through the city. It literally is the center of Paris. Tonight, a mass of sirens going in one direction or another. 
 
That is a water cannon. If you see it in the middle of the road, the police brought it in. in case they needed to use it. So far, they haven't needed to use it. But it seems as if the police are very determined to make sure the center of Paris this evening is safe. 
 
There's a mix of Parisians, a mix of tourists, a lot of journalists, but also, it seems, a lot of young people that have come in from the suburbs, potentially with the intent of causing trouble.
 <br>[17:55:07]
 
But that funeral, as you say, passed off peacefully earlier in the day. That was another acid test for the mood of the street here. 
 
REID: Nic Robertson, thank you. 
 
And too often, people working hard to improve the lives of others did not receive the recognition they deserve. "CNN Heroes" is sharing their stories to help them continue the work that makes them so special. 
 
This week, Anderson Cooper explained what you can do that might turn your hero into the next CNN Hero of the Year. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: Since 2007, "CNN Heroes" has honored hundreds of everyday people making the world a better place. We shine a light on their causes and help them raise funds for their life- changing work, all while inspiring people with their incredible stories. 
 
But the first step is a nomination. That's where you come in. It only takes a few minutes, and you can do it right now at CNNheroes.com. 
 
Just think about what makes this person special and tell us about them in a paragraph or two. We want to me about their impact, what makes their work unique. 
 
You don't need to know your nominee personally. They could just be someone you admire from afar, and they could be from moments anywhere in the world. 
 
This is your opportunity to help that amazing person you know reach more people and change more lives, maybe even become the next CNN Hero of the Year. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID: Go nominate your hero right now at CNNheroes.com. Nominations close July 31st. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)