Headline: Quest Means Business
Sub-headline: Trump Lands In Miami Ahead Of Court Appearance, Former Italian PM And Media Mogul Dies At 86; JPMorgan To Pay Victims Of Jeffrey Epstein; Scotland's Former First Minister Nicola Sturgeon Released Without Charge After Sunday's Arrest; Children Found In Amazon After Plane Crashed; Australian Wedding Guests Killed In Bus Crash. Aired 3:15-4p ET

Aired June 12, 2023 - 15:15:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:17:20] 
 
ISA SOARES, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: I am Isa Soares. 
 
You are looking at live pictures as you can see there. That's former President Donald Trump's motorcade. He arrived at the Miami International 
 
 Airport in the last what -- 17 minutes or so ahead of his arraignment that is expected of course to happen tomorrow, Tuesday. He is now making his way 
 
 to Doral residence in the city of Doral that is very close -- next to Miami. 
 
Of course, he will be then traveling tomorrow downtown for Miami for his appearance of course, in a federal court. 
 
We heard from one of our correspondents seeing earlier today that crowds are already gathering outside the court, of course, former President Trump 
 
 on being arraigned on 37 charges related to his handling of classified documents. 
 
As soon as there is more there's more details of course, we will bring it to you. 
 
For tonight, foreign leaders are recognizing Silvio Berlusconi, a man who revolutionized Italian television and upended politics, who died on Monday, 
 
 age 86. Using the power of his media, real estate, and football empire, the flamboyant billionaire was elected Italy's Prime Minister three times. 
 
Among his political allies, Vladimir Putin, who described Berlusconi today as a true friend. 
 
His critics aren't so complimentary. Berlusconi was Italy's most prosecuted Prime Minister, who gained notoriety for his gaffes, polarizing policies, 
 
 and of course his "bunga bunga" sex parties. 
 
Our Barbie Nadeau reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR (voice over): The Jesus Christ of politics, the best political leader in Europe and the world, that is how Silvio 
 
 Berlusconi once described himself, and without a doubt, he was a powerful political operator and businessman who sparked more than one scandal. 
 
And despite a string of legal trouble and dubious friends, Berlusconi always managed to bounce back. 
 
(SILVIO BERLUSCONI speaking in foreign language.) 
 
NADEAU (voice over): He made his name as a business tycoon. He owned the famous AC Milan football club for 31 years. 
 
At one point, he was the richest man in Italy. 
 
SILVIO BERLUSCONI, FORMER ITALIAN PRIME MINISTER (through translator): I have always been adored by those who have worked with me. 
 
NADEAU (voice over): First elected as prime minister in 1994, he was quickly removed when his coalition partners pulled out, but he was elected 
 
 to the top job twice more in 2001 and 2008, becoming Italy's longest serving prime minister since World War Two. 
 
And voters brought him back to power in 2022, as a coalition partner with Giorgia Meloni and Matteo Salvini. 
 <br>[15:20:04] 
 
Charming and with a flippant sense of humor, Berlusconi's off the cuff remarks and missteps with protocol were often criticized. He welcomed the 
 
 newly elected US president in 2008 by complementing Barack Obama on his "suntan" and left German chancellor, Angela Merkel waiting during a NATO 
 
 Summit, and his close friendship with Vladimir Putin got him in hot water after he disclosed he had re-established his friendship with the Russian 
 
 president in late 2022 after Putin sent him 20 bottles of Russian vodka for his birthday. 
 
He later blamed Ukraine president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy for starting a war, putting him at odds with Meloni. 
 
The prime minister often surrounded himself with beautiful women. Allegations of a relationship with an 18-year-old aspiring model, which he 
 
 strenuously denied triggered a painfully public divorce. 
 
And revelations about his so called "bunga bunga" parties landed him in court on charges of abuse of power and having sex with an underage 
 
 prostitute, allegations he also denied. 
 
BERLUSCONI (through translator): It is absurd to think that I have paid to have rapport with a woman. 
 
NADEAU (voice over): Meanwhile, the Eurozone was going through a financial crisis. Italy was hit hard and the government's debt ballooned 120 percent 
 
 of the GDP in August 2011. 
 
The Italian prime minister promised to crack down on tax evasion and introduce other austerity measures, but it was not enough. 
 
Berlusconi lost his majority in parliament and was forced to resign as prime minister in November 2011. In 2012, he was convicted of corporate tax 
 
 fraud and banned from public office. 
 
Months later, an Italian court found Berlusconi guilty on the charges stemming from the "bunga bunga" parties, an appeals court later overturned 
 
 the conviction. 
 
He was voted out of parliament in 2013. Two years later, convicted of bribing a senator a decade before, but never served time since a statute of 
 
 limitations timed out in the same year. 
 
(SILVIO BERLUSCONI speaking in foreign language.) 
 
NADEAU (voice over): At the age of 82, Berlusconi managed another comeback. He led his Forza Italia party in the European elections and won a seat in 
 
 Parliament. 
 
A month before he turned 86, he led his party back to power as the junior partner of the current ruling coalition. In the summer of 2020, a few weeks 
 
 away from turning 84 years old, Berlusconi was struck by COVID-19 and was hospitalized for 12 days. He called that experience the most dangerous test 
 
 of my life and boasted to journalists that his viral load entity of the virus -- 
 
BERLUSCONI (through translator): It was the highest one amongst tens of thousands. 
 
NADEAU (voice over): Few could match the one and only Silvio Berlusconi, and even though the "Teflon Don" as he was known, was in and out of the 
 
 hospital in his later years, he always managed to look remarkably younger than his years. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: And that was Barbie Nadeau there. 
 
Well, before wading into politics, Berlusconi was one of the most successful businessmen in Italy. He made his initial fortune as a property 
 
 developer back in the 1960s. 
 
He then diversified into television and created his family's holding company, Fininvest and went on to create Mediaset, Italy's biggest media 
 
 empire. The company is now part of Media for Europe. Fininvest also, and the football club AC Milan, as you heard in that piece there. 
 
Well, Berlusconi never publicly named there, but his daughter Marina is considered to be the most likely to take over. She is his oldest child, and 
 
 the chair of Fininvest. 
 
And Barbie Nadeau joins me now from Rome. 
 
And Barbie, I mean, you said there in your piece, you know, he is flamboyant and colorful, but also a very divisive character. How is he 
 
 being remembered across Italy today? 
 
NADEAU: Well, you know, his legacy is very divided. Those who loved him will mourn his loss, but there are a lot of people who didn't like him, 
 
 didn't like what he did to the reputation of Italy, all those gaffes, all of those times he embarrassed the country, those people right now are not 
 
 mourning the loss of this very important figure in Italian history. 
 
But I think you can't dispute, love him or hate him, he was very, very important in post-war Italy. You know, this is the longest serving prime 
 
 minister after World War Two and that, you know, made its mark, it really did. 
 
And if you look at the media landscape in this country, the private media is almost entirely because of Silvio Berlusconi. He is the one who 
 
 introduced American sitcoms like "Dallas" to the Italian public, made them want to be rich and wealthy and, you know, aspire dreams, but he had a lot 
 
 of problems, too, and you know, those are also being remembered tonight -- Isa. 
 
SOARES: And Berlusconi, of course, as our viewers will know was the junior partner in Prime Minister Meloni's right-wing coalition Forza Italia. What 
 
 does this mean then for Forza Italia? What does this mean then for her and the rest of the party here? 
 <br>[15:25:13] 
 
NADEAU: Yes, you know that is a very important question because the members of Forza Italia, this isn't his political party. His political party was 
 
 all Silvio Berlusconi. A lot of the people in his party were not necessarily happy with joining the coalition, do not necessarily support 
 
 the current prime minister, do not necessarily agree with Matteo Salvini, the other member of the coalition. 
 
So it is going to remain to be seen what happens to that party if it just disappears without him or if someone takes over. There is also a lot of 
 
 talk that Marina Berlusconi may very well enter into politics. This is something she wouldn't talk about while her father was still alive, but she 
 
 is the favorite daughter. 
 
She will probably as we mentioned, you know, take over his business enterprise. A lot of people are wondering if she is also going to take -- 
 
 fill his political shoes as well. 
 
But nobody is talking about that now. Everyone is preparing for the state funeral on Wednesday in the Duomo in Milan -- Isa. 
 
SOARES: Barbie Nadeau, great to see you. Barbie, thank you very much. 
 
Well, JPMorgan has reached a settlement with victims of Jeffrey Epstein. It will reportedly pay $290 million to settle what was a class action lawsuit, 
 
 and it resolved just one piece of the litigation over the bank's relationship with the disgraced late financier. 
 
CNN's Christine Romans has the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: A settlement a little more than two weeks after the bank's CEO, Jamie Dimon sat for an 
 
 eight-hour long deposition in the suit. 
 
Now, the bank and attorneys representing the victims say in a statement: "This settlement is in the best interest of all parties, especially the 
 
 survivors who were the victims of Epstein's terrible abuse. The settlement amount is subject to court approval." 
 
Epstein was a JPMorgan client from 1998 to 2013. Now these suits alleged people at Chase knew about the sex trafficking allegations against Epstein, 
 
 but still did business with him. 
 
In his deposition, Dimon acknowledged that he is now aware that some JPMorgan employees knew Epstein was charged with sex crimes involving cash, 
 
 but he did not know at the time, and he said he never met Epstein or ever spoke with him. 
 
The settlement does not resolve a suit against JPMorgan from the US Virgin Islands, nor does it resolve JPMorgan's suit against a former executive, 
 
 Jes Staley. 
 
JPMorgan sued Staley, a former banker there and a known friend of Epstein, alleging he is to blame for the bank's 15-year relationship with Epstein. 
 
 Staley has denied all wrongdoing. 
 
Victims of Epstein had previously reached a $75 million settlement with Deutsche Bank. 
 
In New York, I'm Christine Romans. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: And coming up right here on QUEST MEANS BUSINESS, Ukraine says it has recaptured some frontline villages, it has come though at a cost. We'll 
 
 have more from Ukraine in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[15:31:04]
 
SOARES: Hello. I'm Isa Soares. There'll be more QUEST MEANS BUSINESS in just a moment when Ukraine's long-awaited counteroffensive appears 
 
 underway. Kyiv says its troops are making gains.
 
And Gen Z is feeling the inflation squeeze more than most. I'll be joined by TikTok personal finance guru teaching them how to cope. Before that, of 
 
 course, this is CNN and on this network, the news always comes first.
 
Former Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon was arrested and released without charge on Sunday. It is linked to an investigation into the 
 
 Scottish National Party finances. Police are looking at the funds specifically earmarked for a second independence referendum campaign. She 
 
 says she's innocent of any wrongdoing.
 
Four children are recovering in a Colombian hospital after surviving in the Amazon for a month. They survived when their Cessna plane crashed into the 
 
 jungle on May 1st. Officials say they ate cassava flour that was on the plane and found water to drink. The children's mother was killed in that 
 
 crash.
 
An Australian bus driver is due in court Tuesday after an accident that killed at least 10 wedding guests. The bus had been hired to take people to 
 
 the wedding ceremony north of Sydney in the Hunter Valley. It overturned at a roundabout with 36 passengers on board. The driver was arrested on 
 
 charges of dangerous driving.
 
Welcome back, everyone. Now Ukraine says its troops have retaken seven supplements within the last week in what appears to be a start of that 
 
 counteroffensive. The deputy defense minister says the area recaptured amounts to about 90 square kilometers into Donetsk region as you'll see in 
 
 there (INAUDIBLE) CNN has not verified the battlefield reports. This weekend though President Zelenskyy said relevant counter offensive 
 
 defensive actions are taking place and he didn't go into the details.
 
Our Sam Kiley across it though in Kyiv. He joins me now. And Sam, Ukrainians then saying they are pushing and making headway in that long 
 
 frontline we just saw there both in the east and the west. Just bring us up to date with the very latest.
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, relevant defensive -- offensive-defensive actions and a Willian set of terms deliberately 
 
 ambiguous almost meaningless from President Zelenskyy at the weekend intended to keep the Russians guessing whilst they do indeed as you rightly 
 
 point out there, isa, prosecute what is the early stages of this counteroffensive.
 
It isn't a great blitzkrieg at all yet, but we have seen a very significant increase in the fighting in the Zaporizhzhia frontline. That east west that 
 
 runs from Zaporizhzhia which is Ukrainian-held through the Donetsk City which is a Russian-held and was captured back in 2014. Now, that is a new 
 
 front in terms of the amount of effort that the Ukrainians are putting in to try to break through very substantial Russian defensive lines there.
 
But of course, the pressure they put on there arguably means that the Russians have to reinforce it, bring in extra troops. They do have extra 
 
 troops now released probably from the frontline in Kherson following the flooding of the Nova Kakhovka dam or rather the bursting of that dam and 
 
 the flooding of the Dnipro River beneath it because that means that the natural barrier has been established for them to protect them against a 
 
 Ukrainian advance there.
 
But the Ukrainians are continuing to try to advance and successfully so very incrementally small villages in a significant salient though that 
 
 they've been able to push through over the last week or so. Maybe a little bit more than that, Isa. South of Bakhmut putting the Russians under 
 
 pressure there. I think that was part of an ebb and flow of that natural battlefront, if you like, that's been so bloody for the last year.
 <br>[15:35:04]
 
But the other actions by Ukraine clearly are part as indeed were the shaping operation of the early stages, I think we could say, of the 
 
 counteroffensive. But neither side should be under any illusion. And I believe that they're not certainly talking to Ukrainians that this is going 
 
 to be a very, very bloody and grueling fight, especially if it picks up pace as it's expected to do.
 
SOARES: And what we have heard, Sam, in the last 20 minutes or so, I'm just looking at my notes is that French President Emmanuel Macron said this, a 
 
 meticulously plan counteroffensive in Ukraine has begun. He, you know, you said this is going to be very bloody and long but -- and already we're 
 
 seeing quite significant weaponry losses, too. I was reading something like 16 U.S.-supplied armored vehicles already taken out.
 
I mean, is this sort of a concern to the Ukrainians right now?
 
KILEY: No, it's not. That were -- they're absolutely part of the planning. You have to plan. This is a really -- this is the biggest European war that 
 
 has occurred since the Second World War. It is on a very, very significant scale. And very substantial casualties are going to be taken by both sides 
 
 and internally at CNN, we're very discouraging of people even keeping a tally of these sorts of reports whether it's casualties, numbers of dead 
 
 numbers of wounded or indeed, vehicles that have been destroyed.
 
Because they didn't really tell us very much beyond what we really need to see is who controls what territory. At the moment, the Ukrainians have got 
 
 slightly the upper hand in some incremental gains, but it is very early stages. And you're absolutely right, they have been losing some of this 
 
 NATO-supplied weaponry, which is precisely why President Zelenskyy has put so much effort and continues to do so in making sure that there is that 
 
 steady pipeline of resupply of ammunition, of equipment.
 
They have the manpower, they say, but what they need is the equipment and right at the top of their list, of course, is the F-16 fighter aircraft 
 
 without which many Ukrainians quietly predict that they are very, very substantially hampered in this counteroffensive.
 
SOARES: Yes. Which is what they've continuously call for. And I've been calling for. Sam, thank you very much. Appreciate it. In for us this in 
 
 Kyiv.
 
And coming up. Campbell Wilson used to work at one of the world's best-run airlines. Now he has been tasked with turning around Air India. He spoke to 
 
 Richard Quest about his plan. That is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:40:12]
 
SOARES: Now Air India is working to build back a reputation tarnished over the years by financial troubles as well as an aging fleet. The Tata Group 
 
 took over the debt-ridden carrier back in 2022. Within months, they named the new CEO and ordered a record 470 aircraft. Campbell Wilson comes to Air 
 
 India from Singapore's airlines budget carrier Scoot a year on from his appointment. He spoke to Richard Quest about the airline's legacy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAMPBELL WILSON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, AIR INDIA: It's not something that you haven't thought about before you come in and sat down. I think all 
 
 of us in the aviation industry have watched the R&amp;D over the many years. We've seen this wonderful brand with a wonderful legacy 90 years of 
 
 history, periods where it was amongst the best in the world. We've seen it a little bit tarnished.
 
And we've seen the India market not really rise to its potential. And so, I was really giving a lot of thought to how could the CLN really reclaim its 
 
 former mantle. And a lot of work had been done during the due diligence process by the team from Tata Sons. There were some key plans underway, 
 
 including the aircraft negotiation which had been underway before I arrived. And so really, it was about aligning people behind a common 
 
 aspiration, a common vision, what does that take and then energizing people to do their work.
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: But you came from arguably the most efficient and well run, and financially solid and leading product in 
 
 the world SQ in its various guises. I mean, this -- look at it, I'm not being dramatic when I say it's 180 degrees in the opposite direction from 
 
 where you came.
 
WILSON: Twenty-six years with Singapore Airlines Group. I do know what good looks like, thanks to many years with them. I've had the experience of 
 
 startup, Scoot as part of the Singapore Airlines Group. And both the example of Singapore Airlines, the example of startup and the example of 
 
 being involved in a transformation of Singapore Airlines, all of those are very relevant to the task of restoring Air India.
 
QUEST: The gap between what you found on day one and where you want this airline to be, is so huge. I didn't even know where you'd start.
 
WILSON: A lot of it is hygiene factors in the sense of punctuality and functioning seats. And consistency of service. Air India always was 
 
 renowned for warmth. And I think our crew continued to exhibit warmth and the comments I get from people now, they might be saying the seats weren't 
 
 as good as I would like or the inflight entertainment could be better. And I know you're investing to fix that in the months to come.
 
But the crew made me feel fantastic. And so, I really think that that is -- that is a -- an asset that really is going to underpin the future of Air 
 
 India because the hardware can be fixed. And we've invested $400 million on retrofit, and we're buying 470 new aircraft. You can fix I.T. and we're 
 
 doing that rapid, rapid pace. It's the warmth. And it's the consistency of approach that really make the difference.
 
The warmth is inherent to the Indian culture. It's the consistency of approach that now we're going to be helping to instill.
 
QUEST: Do you use that famous analogy which is -- which is appropriate. You are changing the engine while the planes in flight?
 
WILSON: Yes. So, the Air India group, Air India -- Air India experience and Air Asia India collectively carry about 100,000 people a day. So it's not a 
 
 small operation. And to do such dramatic change, whilst operating safely at scale is a challenge that we're very, very careful off. But it has to be 
 
 done. And you have to change many things at once in order to change anything because so much interconnection.
 
QUEST: How long have you given yourself to turn this thing?
 
WILSON: Well, we've got a five-year transformation plan. By the end of that point, we should have tripled in size. We should probably be -- I think 
 
 regarded amongst the best in the world, at least in terms of consistency and quality of product. There's going to be a lot of subsequent refinement 
 
 that happens five years is a relatively short time in the space of building a world class product.
 
But I think faster than five years people won't recognize the Air India then as to what it was. Five years' time I think people be thinking it's 
 
 pretty good.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: Richard Quest speaking to the CEO of Air India, Campbell Wilson. I want to return though if I could to our top story this hour. Italians are 
 
 mourning the death of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi.
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
A man who revolutionized of course Italian television and upended politics. A state funeral is set for Wednesday in Milan's famous Duomo. Italy's 
 
 former Prime Minister Mario Monti joins me now from Milan.
 
Mr. Monti, wonderful to have you on the show this evening. Today, already I have heard former Italian Prime Ministers Conte and Renzi describe 
 
 Berlusconi, as a man who made history and a man who polarized debate like no other. How will you remember him, sir?
 
MARIO MONTI, FORMER PRIME MINISTER OF ITALY: Well, I remember him as the one who appointed me to become European Commissioner as soon as he was in 
 
 office in '94. And at the same time, I remember him as the outgoing prime minister in November 2011 when his government wasn't able to steer Italy 
 
 through a huge financial crisis, partly generated by its very government.
 
So quite diverse person, certainly with an incredible courage and willingness to change things. I will have like the hint to become a real 
 
 modernizer of Italy with structural changes, with freeing up markets and a little bit like what Margaret Thatcher was in the U.K. in the 80s. But he 
 
 did not have the persistence to do that. He was looking for popularity in the short term. And he was too conciliatory with tax evasion. So, I think 
 
 it's a mixture of innovation and lack of structural improvement in the ground.
 
SOARES: Yes. A flamboyant man that clearly with a complicated legacy, you know, we know him of course around the world as Italy's one of little 
 
 longer serving prime minister but of course, he was Mr. Monti's self-made billionaire first and media mogul who unlike Margaret Thatcher had no 
 
 experience in public office. How do you think he achieved that?
 
MONTI: Well, he was led by his character, and his stronger ego to believe that managing politics is like -- is a bit -- a little bit like managing a 
 
 company. And he was, of course, very successful in a variety of industries, including the sports industry. So probably he thought that having a strong 
 
 party being in fact, the owner of the party, he could command over politics as he was able to command on his own companies. But of course, that's 
 
 entirely different.
 
SOARES: And of course, he was the first to create the kind of private national T.V. channel outside Rai Uno and Rai Due. How much that helped him 
 
 then to transform the media landscape and drive his narrative?
 
MONTI: Enormously, enormously, because not only -- yes, he had all those channels created by him, but also because he was communication and 
 
 narrative and seduction made man. He was so able to communicate, so simple. And let me say also simplistic that he captured the imagination of people 
 
 by and large and they would follow him both in the sense of buying his products and buying his political offer.
 
And it took each time before I think that he was in government, it took some time for the reality to turn back and to show that some or many of his 
 
 promises could not be delivered.
 
SOARES: Yes. Which clearly explained how voters continue to bring him back to power even with so much scandal of course. Mr. Monti, really appreciate 
 
 you speaking to us. Mario Monti there joining us from Milan in Italy. Thank you.
 
Well, in the U.S., young people are feeling the squeeze of economic uncertainty. We'll talk to personal finance TikToker who on a mission 
 
 really to empower young people as well as their bank accounts. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:52:47]
 
SOARES: Welcome back, everyone. In the U.S. older generations are spending more while young people struggle to keep up. Bank of America says baby 
 
 boomers spending is up more than two percent while that of younger generations has shrunk by 1.5 percent. High-housing costs and looming 
 
 student debt payments are playing a part. The problem is even worse for women who still earn just percent of their male counterparts.
 
As young people look for financial answers, they are increasingly turning toward one familiar source. Yes, TiKTok. Tori Dunlap is the founder of Her 
 
 First 100k which has a popular financial education TiKTok account. And she joins me now from Seattle. Tori, great to have you on the show. And I was 
 
 reading up about you. I mean, you started this as a side hustle. So, at what point did you realize there was a gap that there were women out there 
 
 yearning for honest financial advice with no judgment?
 
TORI DUNLAP, FOUNDER, HER FIRST 100K: Yes, thank you for having me, Isa. I really became kind of radicalized to talk about money when Donald Trump got 
 
 elected here in the United States. I was 22, I had graduated college just five months before the 2016 election. And I started to realize through my 
 
 own saving journey that when I had money, I had options, I had the ability to leave a toxic situation.
 
I had the ability to travel or to donate to causes I believed in. And I started to realize that maybe a financial education is our best form of 
 
 protest as a member of a marginalized group. So, I was working a 6:00 to 5:00 at marketing and then Her First 100K was this side hustle that I 
 
 began, and it's taken off since then it's absolutely been crazy. We have three million followers. Now I have a New York Times bestselling book 
 
 called Financial Feminist.
 
And I'm just so honored to do the work that I do fighting the patriarchy by making women rich.
 
SOARES: Fighting the patriarchy. And the majority of your followers I believe Tori are all women. So what have you learned in the last few years 
 
 as to why women don't invest, as to why women may be scared here of talking about money just to start off with?
 
DUNLAP: Yes. I mean, my entire work is around this. So I wrote a whole book about it, but a couple of things. One is that we just are socialized to not 
 
 have conversations about money, right? And that's why it was a gender.
 
SOARES: Why? Why? Why is that?
 
DUNLAP: Right. It's taboo, it's gauche, right? And we're more likely to talk about any other uncomfortable topic before we'll talk about money.
 <br>[15:55:10]
 
But uniquely for women, this, you know, lack of talking about money is also paired with a lack of financial education. It's not socially acceptable to 
 
 share your salary or to have a conversation about debt. Women are also shamed for their spending in a way that men aren't, right? When we think 
 
 about frivolous spending. Frivolous is a very gendered word in this case. It means manicures lattes, designer purses, but it doesn't mean football 
 
 tickets or golf clubs, right?
 
So, that's I think one of the differences we see is that even in -- when women do try to educate themselves about money, their very purchases are 
 
 deemed frivolous when men's aren't.
 
SOARES: And is there a generational trendy? Did you find that certain generations are better at handling money or others don't even want to talk 
 
 about money? See it more as a taboo. How are you seeing any trends here?
 
DUNLAP: Yes. I mean, it's pretty bad for everybody, especially in the United States. Money is the number one cause of stress. And I know that for 
 
 many other countries as well. The interesting thing about millennials and now Gen Z, I am a millennial. I'm 28. And the interesting thing that I am 
 
 having conversations with with everybody is stagnating minimum wages, especially again, in the U.S. We're seeing a trillion-dollar of student 
 
 debt crisis.
 
We are seeing, you know, so many socio-economic issues have a much bigger impact on somebody's money. And that's what I talk about in my work is, you 
 
 know, you can be the best budgeter alive and know how to pay off debt and know how to save money. But if you're dealing with all of these other 
 
 things surrounding your personal finance equation, it's going to be really difficult to get financially ahead.
 
So, this is where policy change really has to come in to support both individuals and society at large. And unfortunately, a lot of the pressure 
 
 is on individuals in a way that doesn't really make sense.
 
SOARES: Yes. And so many right now, as you all know, Tori are facing such a tough economic climate. You know, rising inflation, high interest rates, 
 
 cost of living crisis. It's so difficult. So many -- so many families can't even put food on the table are living paycheck to paycheck but all these 
 
 advise that you outline, so important and it gives you like you said, the financial freedom. Tori, really appreciate you taking the time to speak to 
 
 us there joining us from Seattle in Washington.
 
And there are just moments left to trade on Wall Street. We'll bring you of course, the numbers which we haven't watched, in fact, in the last few 
 
 (INAUDIBLE) there you are. The Dow Jones, as you can see up almost half a percent, 163 points. We'll give you the closing bell after this very short 
 
 break. You are watching QUEST MEANS BUSINESS.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SOARES: And the Fed will decide on Wednesday where to set U.S. interest rates. Investors seem to think the central bank will hold them steady. 
 
 Let's see what will happen then. The Dow has been high as you can see for pretty much all the day. It's up now almost well, 50 percent on the dot, 
 
 168 points. If we look at the Dow components, if we have a quick look Dow up, as you can see S&amp;P 500 are also doing well.
 
NASDAQ also green ours right across the board. In terms of the components, the Dow Jones there as you can see, we had Intel I think was on top.
 <br>[16:00:05]
 
And that is QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. I'm Isa Soares. The closing bell is ringing on Wall Street. "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right now.
 
END