Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: W.H.: Additional Pages With Classified Markings Found At Biden's Home; 25 Million People Under Flood Watches Across California; Families In Kyiv Demand Return Of Prisoners Of War, Missing Loved Ones; Cousin of Black Lives Matter Co-Founder Dies from Cardiac Arrest After Being Tased by L.A. Police; Diabetes Drug on Short Supply as More People Use it for Weight Loss; Report: U.S. Cancer Death Rate Has Fallen 33% Since 1991; Single Ticket Sold in Maine Wins $1.35 Billion Mega Millions Jackpot. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired January 14, 2023 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: All right. Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. And we begin this era with yet more classified documents discovered a President Biden's Delaware home. Just in the last hour, the White House announced that additional pages of classified material were found Thursday at his private residence in Wilmington, Delaware.
 
CNN previously reported that 10 classified documents from Biden's time as vice president were found at his former private office in Washington, D.C. And this comes as U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland has appointed a special counsel to take over the investigation. For the very latest, let's bring in CNN's Arlette Saenz at the White House. So, Arlette, tell us more about the statement the White House is sharing.
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fred, we're starting to get a better picture of exactly how many documents have been found between the president's residence in Wilmington, Delaware, as well as a former office that he used here when he had left the vice presidency. And based on CNN reporting, as well as the disclosures that have come from the White House counsel office, it appears that there are approximately 20 documents with classified markings that had been found between those two locations.
 
Now, one of those documents was found in an adjacent room to the president's garage in Wilmington, Delaware. The White House had initially said that that included one page but it is now revealed that there were actually an additional five pages that were found on Thursday night. Now this is just the latest trickling out of information when it comes to the handling of these classified documents.
 
Now, there was also further detailed provided by the White House counsel as well as the President's personal attorney Bob Bauer, where they talked about that search that was underway at the Wilmington resident a bit earlier this week. They said that when the personal attorneys were searching through that residence, and they came upon classified markings that they stopped looking at those documents.
 
Those personal lawyers do not hold security clearances. At that point, they notified the Justice Department so they could get possession of the documents themselves. But they did not search through any other boxes at that moment. Then the White House Counsel today said that the White House Counsel Richard Sauber went up to Wilmington, Delaware on Thursday evening, and as he was facilitating the transfer of that document, they found an additional five pages of material that were then transferred over to the Justice Department.
 
So, it gives you a little bit more insight into how some of this has played out. Now the White House counsel has also said that they intend to fully cooperate with the Special Counsel. They said in a statement, "The President's lawyers have acted immediately and voluntarily to provide the Penn Biden documents to the archives and the Wilmington documents to DOJ. We have now publicly released specific details about the documents identified how they were identified and where they were found."
 
So certainly, these are just the latest developments and an ongoing saga regarding the handling of these classified documents, of course, very many more questions for this White House, especially as there has just been a very slow trickling out of information over the course of the past week.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Arlette Saenz at the White House. Thanks so much. We're also joined on the phone now by CNN legal affairs correspondent Paula Reid. So, Paula, you know why perhaps might it be important for the White House to share this versus the White House saying allow the Department of Justice to share this kind of information?
 
PAULA REID, CNN LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (via telephone): So, the Justice Department does not comment on ongoing investigations, that is their standard operating procedure. So, they there's no expectation that the Justice Department is going to weigh in on anything related to what is now a special counsel investigation. But for the White House, they have been heavily criticized over the past week for not getting out in front of this matter, for allowing things to leak out in the press.
 
And then issuing these begrudging statements confirming most of what has come out. So, it's notable today that they're clearly trying to get out in front of this, to be the ones to deliver this new information. But we are here deep in the weeds in terms of development. Our reporting indicates, as Arlette master (INAUDIBLE) out that there are approximately 20 documents that have been found at two different locations, the former office and the president's residence in Wilmington.
 
Now, initially, when those were disclosed, his team made a big deal about the fact that there were two locations in the home where classified material was discovered. And in one of those locations, it was just a single page. Well, in saying that they've kind of boxed themselves in now, by saying that documents only consisted of single page. Now that they've discovered that there were actually five additional pages that have to come out and clarify that.
 
But to the average American, to the average voter, it's just going to seem like there's classified material popping up everywhere and that's how this can spiral in to a political liability.
 <br>[13:05:05]
 
So, it is great that the White House is trying to get out in front of this but it'll be interesting to see over the next few days if they continue to try to be the ones delivering the news, or things are coming out through media reporting.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Arlette Saenz, Paula Reid, thank you so much. Let's talk further about all of this now with Renato Mariotti. He is a former federal prosecutor and the host of the podcast, It's Complicated. And this is really complicated too, Renato. So, I wonder, is there a big difference between now close to 20 classified documents versus the less than 10 number that people were digesting over the last few days?
 
RENATO MARIOTTI, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: You know, not as, legally, it doesn't really matter all that much. What really matters is the President's intent and whether or not you willfully retain those documents. But obviously, I think it raises questions about how the President's team manage the situation. Because Fred, I think, this -- it's safe to say that, you know, a good idea would have been to search all of these locations back in November when this issue first came up.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. So right. There's -- their lens -- there's the lens of the political lens, and then the legal lens. So, let's stick with the, you know, legal lens, because even as Paula just underscored, the Department of Justice is not going to comment about an ongoing investigation. So, you know, for a few days, we've also been hearing from the White House, which said, this is an ongoing investigation.
 
So, we're not going to comment, but now the White House is trying to get out in front with these latest discoveries. So, does -- is the White House now undermining the Department of Justice or their position with the Department of Justice by now commenting on the latest discovery?
 
MARIOTTI: That's a good question. I don't think it's likely going to impact the DOJ investigation significantly. I really think, Fred that this is a case -- it reminds me a lot of the Hillary e-mail case where it's a case that really is unlikely to result in charges, and in many ways, I think is being initiated just to ensure that there's public competence regarding the handling of these documents and that this issue has been looked into.
 
And then I think that, you know, that investigation is likely going to wrap itself up fairly quickly.
 
WHITFIELD: OK. So now, now we're talking about two special counsels working simultaneously. One investigating the former president and now, one, investigating the sitting president over the handling of classified documents, government materials, period. So, I wonder, will there be any kind of overlap? Will there be, you know, any real comparisons, that even the special counsels will make, any sharing of information or are these going to be handled very separately?
 
MARIOTTI: That's a really great question, Fred. I really don't think these two situations are comparable at all. The former president, you know, willfully kept documents. You know, even after there was a grand jury subpoena. There are numerous requests by the government, even a personal visit by the Justice Department, very different from the inadvertent retention or inadvertent handling of documents.
 
So, I don't see any factual overlap or even legal overlap. I think they'll be looking at different statutes. I expect Special Counsel Jack Smith, who's investigating a former President Trump to really make a decision on the facts and the law and not to consider anything that's going on regarding person in mind.
 
WHITFIELD: And even in the case of President Biden, if inadvertent, you know, a messy mistake, does that shield the president from potentially, illegally possessing, possessing government material? Does that allow --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
MARIOTTI: So, the statue --
 
WHITFIELD: -- any kind of criminality or charges?
 
MARIOTTI: Well, it's certainly reduces your liability a lot. And really, Fred, inadvertently, possessing classified material is really almost never prosecuted. There's one statute that could apply regarding gross negligence and the handling of classified material. But as James Comey let everyone know, in the Hillary Clinton manner, which is similar in that regards, why you -- I raised that, you know, he noted how that statute had almost never been prosecuted and the bar was very high.
 
I really expect the Special Counsel looking at President Biden to arrive at a similar conclusion.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Renato Marriott, always good to see you. Thank you so much.
 
MARIOTTI: Thank you.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. And now to severe weather in the U.S. today. 25 million people in California are under flood watches. Tornado is also possible in some areas this afternoon. At the latest round of potentially dangerous weather happening just days after another major storm system swept through the state. A live picture right now. San Francisco. I mean, the rain still coming down at this hour.
 
CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar is tracking the storm for us. And Natasha Chen is live for us in Fairfax, California.
 <br>[13:10:05] Natasha, let's go to you first because, you know, a mudslide there is already causing a lot of problems.
 
NATASHA CHEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Fred. We're standing right by this apartment complex in Fairfax here. Were on the backside of it yesterday morning. Multiple trees crashed into two-bedroom windows where children lived there and we met one of the residents who was evacuated. About 19 people had to leave these buildings. Mark Fleischer told us what that moment felt like. Herer he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARK FLEISCHER, APARTMENT RESIDENT: I thought I heard A thunder. It was not thunder. It was a hillside giving away behind the two flats behind us. Trees went into their bathrooms. There were little kids there. There is fortunately a lady across the street, is a EMT fire person in San Francisco. We had no idea what was happening until I came outside.
 
And there were floods. This is nothing. It was coming down this broad about this deep. All mud flow.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHEN: Luckily, no one was hurt in this situation. But this is one of the types of dangers that a lot of officials are really warning people about. You can see photos from Marin County when they responded to the scene yesterday. Because there's been storm after storm. There's so much saturation on the ground and in the rivers that it's not going to take much for flooding and mudslides to happen.
 
We are currently having a dry moment here, Fred. Even though when we drove across the Golden Gate Bridge this morning, it was pouring. And we've seen video from our affiliates showing the fast-flowing Salinas River. We're expecting the Russian River to also flood this weekend at some point. So, a lot of warnings for people to be safe as they are driving around. Be watchful of flooding and of potential mudslides like we saw here, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Natasha Chen, thank you so much. To you now, Allison Chinchar in the weather center. How are things looking? And how are they going to look?
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes. So unfortunately, still soggy at least for the next 48 hours. But there may be some light at the end of the tunnel once we get to the end of the upcoming week. In the short term however, the heaviest rainfall is really focused right now across northern and central California. But we're starting to see that spread into Southern California.
 
And that's going to continue as we head into the afternoon, and especially into the evening hours. So, you still have over 25 million people under flood watches for today and even into tomorrow. But it's not just about the rain that's falling now, you also have to take into account all of the rain that has already fallen in just the last two to three weeks. Take for example, Reno, Sacramento, San Francisco, and even Santa Barbara.
 
All of these locations have picked up roughly six months' worth of rain in just two weeks. So again, they need the rain, they want the rain, they just don't want that much in a very short period of time. Now we're talking about adding even more rain on top of it. The first atmospheric river event is underway as we speak. That's what's bringing the rain and snow to a lot of the area today.
 
We get a brief break late tonight and into early Sunday morning, but by the time we get to Sunday afternoon, that next round begins to push back in and it is expected to last all the way through Monday. It's not just the rain and snow but also the wind component too. You've got wind advisories in effect for numerous states here, not just California, where are those wind gusts are expected to get up to about 50 miles per hour. 
 
When you go higher up in elevation, now you're talking 60 to 70 miles per hour. That has the potential to bring down additional trees and even trigger some additional power outages. In terms of rain, most of the areas the additional rainfall we anticipate over the next 48 to 72 hours, about two to three inches, especially along the coastal regions. When we talk about snow, the heaviest is certainly going to be in the Sierras where it's going to be measured in three to six feet by the time, we get through the day Monday.
 
It's not just for California though, you'll notice a lot of that snow spreads into the intermountain west where we also have some winter storm warnings and winter weather advisories. But the good news this is the part to focus on, Fred, is once we get to the end of the upcoming week, we finally start to see a drier pattern begin to set in across this area so that they can finally have some chance to dry out and perhaps clean up the mess as well. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Isn't that the contrast now celebrating what could be a dry period after being a very severe drought for very long time. Allison Chinchar, Natasha Chen, thanks so much.
 
All right. A new round of Russian attacks across Ukraine this morning. A several large explosions have rocked the capital of Kyiv. We'll go live there next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:18:55]
 
WHITFIELD: Authorities in Ukraine are struggling to restore electricity after they say Russian missiles hit power plants in five different regions today. In the capital of Kyiv, officials say Russia targeted power stations in the east bank part of the city causing a fire at one of the facilities. And in Dnipro, the Ukrainian military says almost 60 people were injured including 12 children in a missile strike that hit an apartment block.
 
CNN's Scott McLean is in Kyiv. So, Scott, what's the assessment of the damage to the power stations? SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Fredricka, I think that it could have been much worse and that is because the Ukrainian authorities say that almost two-thirds of the incoming missiles were actually shot down by the air defense systems. This was the first major missile attack in the country and almost two weeks and it was literally a wake-up call for many people in Kyiv who awoke too as I did the sound of very powerful explosions that could be heard even from Central Kyiv.
 
And this was before the air raid sirens actually went off. The damage the first time around was relatively be limited. 
 <br>[13:20:02]
 
The second time later in the day when the air raid sirens went off again, the authorities made clear that there was in fact incoming and so people went to the shelter. So we were in a metro station in the central part of the city with hundreds of other people who were also hoping to shelter deep underground. As you mentioned, though, five power infrastructure facilities were hit across the country.
 
That means there are emergency power cuts taking place right now. Authorities say that the integrity of the system was maintained. The problem is that the power deficit in the system is now even worse than it was before. But it wasn't even just energy infrastructure that was hit. There was also an apartment block that was hit in Dnipro as you mentioned, and when you look at the pictures here, Fredricka, it is difficult to imagine how anyone could have possibly survived.
 
And yet, they say that there were dozens of survivors, though also, at least five people were killed and more than 30 were injured, including six children, all of whom were hospitalized. Fredricka?
 
WHITFIELD: Horrible situation. And then, you know, there was a moving demonstration earlier today in Kyiv. Tell us about that.
 
MCLEAN: Yes. So, this was a group of mostly women, wives, mothers, sisters, who took to the streets of central Kyiv to try to draw attention to the fact that their loved ones were missing. These were soldiers fighting on the front lines. Some were captured early on in the war. Some went missing more recently, but either way, they have been away from their loved ones for a very, very long time.
 
I met one woman who not only is her husband fighting currently on the front line, but her father is right now in a Russian prison colony. This is a 55-year-old man who had a choice not to go to war, and instead he chose to go to war, he felt compelled to do so. I also met a woman whose son went missing last year and she doesn't know if he's alive at all. She hasn't got any kind of confirmation that he's a prisoner. But she says she has this motherly instinct that she's alive. Here's what she said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TETYANA SHOKUR, MOTHER OF MISSING UKRAINIAN SOLDIER (through translator): My life is hell after my son went missing. My soul is broken to pieces from all this uncertainty. We don't want this war. We want our country to be free. Our sons went to defend our country.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCLEAN: And sadly, Frederika that interview was not unique. I could have had that interview with hundreds of different women today. I met one woman not only was one of her sons injured in battle, but also her other son went missing. She hasn't heard from him since last summer.
 
WHITFIELD: So sad. All right, Scott McLean. Thanks so much. All right. Let's bring in now General Wesley Clark. He's a CNN military analyst and former NATO Supreme Allied Commander. So good to see you. So, for a long time now, we've been talking about how Russia is targeting power plants and infrastructure, and Ukrainians, you know, keep fixing or rebuilding or really enduring.
 
So, is Russia going to maintain like an advantage as long as it continues to do this, targeting the power grid particularly?
 
WESLEY CLARK, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, it's not really an advantage for Russia in the military, since it's just punishing people in Ukraine. It does interfere with Ukraine's infrastructure, its military industries. So, it makes it harder to take care of and produce the goods they need. It also may impact the medical support they're getting. But the Ukrainians have been incredibly ingenious and imaginative and determined and in being able to handle this attack.
 
So, I think it's more -- it's more anti humanitarian effort by the Russians than it is really gaining them any military advantage, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Now, one or two is Russia kind of highlighting a vulnerability particularly as we listen to this exchange between Vladimir Putin and one of his deputies this week. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DENIS MANTUROV, MINISTER OF INDUSTRY AND TRADE OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION (through translator): Why are you fooling around?
 
VLADMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): It will be ready during this quarter. Based on the funds available under the budget. I want all of this to be done within a month. What quarter are you talking about? Do you not understand the circumstances we are in? Please complete this work within a month. Agreed? We will try to do our best. No. Do not try to do your best, please get it done in a month, no later.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. So, is that a show or is that really, you know, highlighting a vulnerability, you know, weakened leadership?
 
CLARK: Well, it's both. It is a show. It presents Putin as a strong leader. [13:25:04]
 
It is a vulnerability. They're not able to really spin up their military industries the way they want. And on this, this man who's on the receiving end is a target. So, he's going to be the fall guy, he may literally fall out of a window somewhere, if he doesn't produce, but this is the way it works in the Russian system. And this is how Putin has maintained his support of the Russian people. They're looking for a strong leader, someone who will really break bones and make things happen.
 
So, when he goes after one of his deputies like this, or one of his ministers like this, this elevates him, and gives him a more of public support for calling on this mobilization, sending the soldiers into get slaughtered in the front lines and so forth. It's the Russian political game.
 
WHITFIELD: Flipside to that, this mercenary group, the Wagner Group, is taking credit for the Russian progress in Soledar. Is this group capable of, you know, changing the course of the war?
 
CLARK: Probably not by themselves, Fredericka, but they are better equipped and better trained than the average Russian soldiers that are going in there. Ukrainians told me that the Wagner Group has thermal drones so they can see at night. Their soldiers have night vision goggles, their soldiers have more telescopic sights and so forth. And what they're doing is they're using these prisoners and mobilized draftees as cannon fodder or really reconnaissance troops.
 
They send them forward. They rush the Ukrainian positions. There are reports of someone being armed with nothing but grenades. And then when they -- when the Wagner Group is behind them and sees where the Ukrainians are czar, then the Wagner Group brings fire on the Ukrainians. They're willing to accept the slaughter of the soldiers which Putin is certainly willing to do, then it might work for a while. 
 
But the real issue here, Fredricka, is we haven't supported Ukraine with our kind of artillery it needs to win a counter for our battle and drive this back. And it -- no matter how much technology we have, how precise they are, there's still a problem of just a number of artilleries to the amount of ammunition that's provided. And they're behind, we've got to do more. And this is a critical window to do that.
 
WHITFIELD: I know you've said in the past that you believe doing more as also means more air arsenal. More air support from the U.S. to Ukraine.
 
CLARK: Yes, that's exactly right. We were, you know, we've advertised, we're sending 50 Bradley Fighting Vehicles. Well, that that's not much. And the Germans are going to send 10 tanks, and the Brits are going to send 10 tanks. When Ukraine is asking for 500 tanks. They're asking for 500 infantry fighting vehicles, they are asking for two dozen, four dozen A-10s or F-16s. We've denied that. They need the ATAK comes long range fires. They need the switchblade 600 drone which we're holding back from them under the extended in use monitoring requirement which could be waived or put aside, but we're holding it back. And Putin senses that. He sees that we're trying to shave this very close, what he's going to do is if he's successful and mobilize. Ukrainian say he's looking -- Putin's looking for a two- million-man army and simply overwhelmed them while we're putting in a dozen tanks or two dozen tanks.
 
It's -- this is a critical window to get our policy right and make up our mind that really the way we come through this successfully is by giving Ukraine enough support that it can drive the Russians out. That's the only way if it's a negotiated ending. If Putin keeps provinces, then he claims victory, real arms and this whole scenario repeats itself in 12 months, 18 months, two years, three years.
 
This is a time to, you know, really seize the bull by the horns, put the reinforcements in there, the equipment in there, the maintenance in there and get it done.
 
WHITFIELD: I got you. All right. General Wesley Clark. I think everyone hears you loud and clear. Let's see what happens next, right? Thank you.
 
Coming up. Los Angeles police investigating the death of a high school teacher who's also a cousin of a Black Lives Matter co-founder. He died from cardiac arrest after being tased multiple times by police. The details in the body camera video of the incident straight ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:34:08]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: A 31-year-old father who was an 31- year-old father who was an English teacher and a relative of a Black Lives Matter co-founder died last week after being repeatedly tased by the police. That's according to the Los Angeles Police Department. 
 
Keenan Anderson's death marks the third officer-involved death in the city so far this year. 
 
Body cam videos, which show the use of force by officers, capture what happened. 
 
We want to warn you, it may be disturbing to some viewers. 
 
Here now is Stephanie Elam. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: All right. I'm going to tase -- I'm going to tase him.
 
KEENAN ANDERSON, DIED AFTER POLICE ARREST: They're trying to kill me.
 
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The end of a police encounter, the beginning of a nightmare for the family of 31-year-old Keenan Anderson. 
 
The cousin of Black Lives Matter co-founder, Patrisse Cullors, who posted, "Keenan deserves to be alive right now. His child deserves to be rai sed by his father."
 <br>[13:35:02]
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Sit with your legs crossed.
 
ANDERSON: Please, they're going to trying to kill me. Please.
 
ELAM: Police say began with a traffic accident that witnesses said, Anderson caused.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:: That guy right there, he caused that accident.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:: I think that guy is in very paranoid state.
 
ELAM: Anderson was running around near the scene, police say, when an officer caught up with him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Get off to the side here.
 
ANDERSON (text): Somebody is trying to kill me.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER: (text): Have a seat against the wall over here.
 
ANDERSON: I don't want to be in the black. I want people to see me.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER: (text): Sir. OK, you can sit right there then.
 
ELAM: He initially complied, dropping to his knees and putting his hands behind his head, as he pleaded with the officer.
 
ANDERSON: Please sir, I didn't mean to, sir. Please.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Hold on, hold on. OK.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER: (text): Come here. I don't want you in the road. Come here.
 
ELAM: Anderson later jogged into the middle of the road.
 
(HONKING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Come here.
 
ELAM: Where police restrained him and eventually tasered him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Turn over on your stomach right now!
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Watch your elbow, partner.
 
ANDERSON: They're trying to George Floyd me. They're trying to George Floyd me.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop. Stop it or I'm going to tase you.
 
OK, stop it or I'm going to tase you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop resisting.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop it or I'm going to tase you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop resisting.
 
ANDERSON: Please.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop resisting.
 
ANDERSON: Please, please, please!
 
(YELLING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: All right. I'm going to -- I'm going to tase him. I'm going to tase him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: OK.
 
ANDERSON: They're trying to kill me. They're trying to kill me. 
 
ELAM: The video, edited and released by LAPD, shows Anderson is tasered five times. He died later of cardiac arrest at the hospital.
 
MELINA ABDULLAH, CO-FOUNDER, BLACK LIVES MATTER LOS ANGELES CHAPTER: Keenan Anderson said, "They're trying to George Floyd me. They are trying to George Floyd me." And guess what happened? They did.
 
ELAM: Police say early test results indicate cocaine and marijuana in Anderson's system.
 
Keenan Anderson was a high school English teacher in Washington, D.C., visiting L.A. during winter break.
 
His death is one of three, involving LAPD officers last week.
 
MICHAEL MOORE, CHIEF, LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT: This cluster of events while miles apart deeply concerned me.
 
ELAM: But police say, officer-involved deaths are falling to all-time lows. 
 
The chief vowing a full investigation, as Anderson's school calls him, "a deeply committed educator and father of a 6-year-old son. He was beloved by all."
 
(on camera): The Los Angeles Police Department says of the more than 2,000 times police officers used force last year, 31 resulted in death. And of that 31, 80 percent involved drugs or alcohol. 
 
However, the police chief says that number is still too high, but it is a low for the department. 
 
As for Patrisse Cullors, who is the co-founder of Black Lives Matter and who is cousin to Keenan Anderson, she posted on Instagram, in part, that her cousin was, "Killed by police. Los Angeles has no mental health care structure, no real social services, just cops, cops, cops."  
 
Stephanie Elam, CNN, Los Angeles. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:41:42]
 
WHITFIELD: A key prescription drug used to control blood sugar is flying off the shelves but not just for diabetes. It's called Ozempic. And it was recently approved for weight loss, which has it in high demand now. 
 
My next guest says she sees patients every day who were told their pharmacy no longer carried the medication. 
 
Joining me right now is Dr. Disha Narang, an endocrinologist and director of obesity medicine at Northeastern Medicine, Lake Forest Hospital. 
 
So good to see you, Doctor. 
 
DR. DISHA NARANG, ENDOCRINOLOGIST &amp; DIRECTOR OF OBESITY MEDICINE, NORTHEASTERN MEDICINE, LAKE FOREST HOSPITAL: Thank you so much for having me. 
 
WHITFIELD: So we've got now what's become one very popular drug that is addressing two leading health issues in America. So what gets priority when it comes down to this Ozempic drug? 
 
NARANG: Both get priority. So, you know, the treatment of diabetes is the treatment of obesity.
 
And so this medication is marketed as Ozempic for type two diabetes and would go for weight management, it's the same medication and essential for treatment of both conditions because both are chronic diseases that need treatments long term. 
 
WHITFIELD: How did this discovery get made since most patients who were diabetic were being given this prescription and then, lo and behold, it's also addressing some weight issues? 
 
NARANG: Right. It's in the category of medications called GSL-1. And we've been using these medications for years for type two diabetes management. 
 
Only in the last few years have they been approved for weight management as well. So we're very familiar with the use of these meds. However, now that it's picking up a lot of publicity for weight
 
 management, the company has seen unprecedented demand for these medications, which has led to the short supply. 
 
WHITFIELD: So, who are you most worried about now? Because if both are approved, diabetes as well as for obesity issues, everyone -- you know, it's fair game now, this Ozempic for those conditions.
 
Is there a way in which to prioritize who should get it if it's a supply issue right now? 
 
NARANG: Yes. You know, it's tough to say who the priority is, but right now our patients with diabetes are struggling just to get their medications to control their blood sugar. 
 
So we're having to substitute other medications, increase their insulin requirements. People are gaining weight back, you know, from not being on these medications. 
 
So it really is becoming a problem for our patients that are dealing with type two diabetes. 
 
But then again, our nation is -- you know, there's an epidemic of obesity as well. And we need to treat the obesity to prevent the diabetes in the first place. 
 
It's hard for me as a diabetes doctor and obesity doctor to say what comes first because we need to treat the weight issues prior to someone developing diabetes, heart disease, high cholesterol. 
 
It's sort of the base for all of these chronic metabolic diseases. We need to prioritize both. 
 
Obviously, supply has become an issue. We need to be able to give it to our sickest patients first and then go down the line. 
 
But this is going to be something that is a long-standing issue and something that needs treatment for a long time. 
 <br>[13:45:05]
 
So, you know, the hope is that supply chain will pick up. But right now, yes, we are struggling every single day trying to get our patients the medications they need. 
 
WHITFIELD: So, do you have enough alternatives so if, you know, your diabetic patients have been on this drug, Ozempic longer, since it's newly approved for the weight loss, but they can't get it, what do you do? Or what do they do? 
 
NARANG: Yes. So, right. We have other GLP-1s available to us. But what's happened is, you know, it's been kind of a downstream effect, that those medications are coming under short supply as well. 
 
So other medications like -- we have others that we are able to call upon. However, we are running into some supply issues with those as well because of the downstream effect. 
 
We have a new medication available within the last year, which, you know, we're running into issues with that as well. 
 
One of the bigger issues is supply. The other is also insurance coverage. And oftentimes, insurance does not cover, you know, all of these medications. They may only prefer one or the other. 
 
So every single day us and our staff are, you know, just spinning our wheels trying to get our patients cared for, but it's been frustrating all around. 
 
WHITFIELD: I see. 
 
All right. Dr. Disha Narang, so glad you could be with us. Thank you so much. 
 
NARANG: Thank you so much. 
 
WHITFIELD: And signs of progress in the fight against cancer. A new report from the American Cancer Society shows that the rate of people dying of cancer in the U.S. is on the decline, falling 33 percent in the last three decades. 
 
CNN health reporter, Jacqueline Howard, breaks it down. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: This new report from the American Cancer Society shows we've made steady progress in getting our nation's cancer death rate to decline in the past three decades. 
 
That's, in part, due to advanced treatment. We have fewer people smoking, which is a risk factor for cancer. We also have an HPV vaccine, which offers some protection against cervical cancer. And we're detecting cancers early. 
 
All of those factors have played a role in what the head of the American Cancer Society calls meaningful gains. 
 
Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAREN E. KNUDSEN, CEO, AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY: There's new revelations for prevention, for early detection, and for treatment resulting in true meaningful gains in many of the 200 diseases that we call cancer. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOWARD: And while that's good news, when you really look at the numbers, there's still room for improvement in certain areas. 
 
So the data show that, as a nation, we have seen our cancer death rate decline by 33 percent since 1991. But we also see some racial disparities continue. The death rate in
 
 the black community is still 12 percent higher, which shows there are some inequities that still need to be addressed. 
 
We also are seeing increases in the incidents of certain cancer cases. We're seeing more breast cancer, more uterine cancer, for prostate cancer.
 
And overall, the lifetime probability of being diagnosed with any invasive cancer is 41 percent for men, 39 percent for women. Researchers say there's still room more improvement there as well. 
 
Back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: Jacqueline Howard, thanks so much. 
 
And we'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:53:05]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Someone in Maine is really happy, and now a billionaire after a single ticket sold there matched all six numbers for last night's Mega Millions jackpot worth $1.35 billion. 
 
With me now, CNN's Isabel Rosales.
 
We still don't know who this person is. But we know that they, a group or whatever, they have big bank now.
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Oh, this is life changing money.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
ROSALES: Winning the jackpot, period, is a long shot. They defied the odds here. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
ROSALES: One in 302 million odds to win this big prize. 
 
And turns out, Fred, Friday the 13th might not be as unlucky as we all think, because look at this. Check this out. Six previous jackpots were won Friday 13th. 
 
Michigan, look at that, keeps repeating over and over. Four jackpots. One is in that state. Especially lucky, 2014, 2015, 2017. New York, on in 2009. Ohio, 2015 on Friday the 13th. 
 
This time around, Mega Millions topped the billion-dollar mark after nearly three months with no winning ticket drawn. But after last night's drawing, the streak ended. One winning ticket. The ticket was sold in Maine. Some very, very lucky person nabbing $1.35 billion, with a "B,"
 
 jackpot. So that means they matched all six numbers: 30, 43, 45, 46, 61 and, yes, Mega Ball 14. 
 
So if they choose to take the lump-sum cash payout that is around $724 million. Still not bad. 
 
That ticket sold in Lebanon, Maine. I spoke with the owner of that gas station, who told me he woke up bright and early, 6:00 a.m. to a call that he could not believe. He thought it was actually a scam. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
FRED COTREAU, OWNER, HOMETOWN GAS &amp; GRILL: It's almost incomprehensible to think about. It is -- just to wrap your head around how much it would change somebody's life, regardless of your status and where you are, that kind of payout, yes. 
 <br>[13:55:11]
 
What do you do? Where do you start? I wouldn't know where to start!  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
WHITFIELD: I want that problem -- maybe. 
 
ROSALES: Big money, big problems. That's fine. We can do that. 
 
His name is Fred, by the way. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, I know. I love that. Fred. Fred gets a cut, too. His lucky day, too, Friday the 13th. 
 
ROSALES: That's why he's grinning ear to ear. 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
ROSALES: He actually said that the highest amount that they've ever sold in a winning ticket there at his store, $1,000. 
 
WHITFIELD: Oh, OK. 
 
ROSALES: So big difference --  
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
ROSALES: -- between prior to Friday and now today. 
 
WHITFIELD: Big difference and big return to some lucky folks out there.
 
ROSALES: Yes. 
 
WHITFIELD: Thank you so much, Isabelle. Appreciate it. And we'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:05]
 
WHITFIELD: Hello everyone. Thank you again for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
We begin this hour with discovery of more classified documents at President Biden's Delaware home.