Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Concerns over Human Rights in India During PM Modi's Visit to Washington; Search for Missing Titan Sub in Critical Stage; Biden meets with Modi at White House; Russian State News: One of Four Missiles Fired by Ukraine Struck the Chonhar Bridge; Russian Court Denies Appeal by Jailed WSJ Reporter; Inside Taiwan's Drills to Defend against China. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired June 22, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: This hour we will hear from Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is speaking with U.S. President Joe Biden 
 
 on his state visit but first your headlines at this hour.
 
The Titanic Submersible search and rescue mission continues at this point it is feared the five people on board might have little or no breathable 
 
 air left. And Ukraine has damaged a key bridge connecting Crimea to Southern Ukraine. It is the shortest route for moving Russian forces as 
 
 Kyiv presses forward with its offensive.
 
And Wall Street Journal Reporter, Evan Gershkovich must remain in a Russian prison until his trial. The American Ambassador to Russia says the U.S. 
 
 extremely disappointed with the court ruling.
 
A decade ago Narendra Modi could not even travel to the United States. Today the Indian Prime Minister is a guest of honor for what is only the 
 
 third state visit of Joe Biden's Presidency. The leaders are meeting at the White House this hour and will address the media a little bit later on. In 
 
 opening remarks President Biden praised the two countries cooperation on tackling key issues.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: Together India and the United States are working closely on everything from ending poverty and 
 
 expanding access to health care, to addressing climate change to tackling food and energy and security stoked by Russia's unprovoked war in Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: The two leaders are set to announce agreements on defense cooperation and supply chain manufacturing. Later Mr. Modi will address the 
 
 U.S. Congress and will attend a lavish steak dinner at the White House. Looming over all of this is concerns over China's growing global influence 
 
 and Mr. Modi's increasingly harsh crackdowns on dissent at home. Here's our Ivan Watson with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The leaders of India and the U.S. in a warm embrace. President Joe Biden has 
 
 called this a defining relationship of the 21st Century.
 
NARENDRA MODI, INDIAN PM: Natural Partners.
 
WATSON (voice over): We are natural partners Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at this meeting last year, adding the new momentum in relations 
 
 between two democracies that are the world's largest and oldest would have been hard to imagine even a decade ago.
 
This year, the U.S. became India's largest trading partner, the world's most populous country buying hundreds of American made planes and for the 
 
 first time Apple opening a store in Mumbai. But it's not just business that's bringing these two countries together.
 
SUSHANT SINGH, CENTER FOR POLICY RESEARCH: China is the one big glue, which is holding India and the United States together.
 
WATSON (voice over): High in the Himalayas, India is locked in a tense faceoff with China.
 
SINGH: India is the only country which is militarily deployed against China in an active mode, where across the 2000 mile border disputed border 50,000 
 
 to 60,000 Indian soldiers and an equal number of Chinese soldiers are deployed in an eyeball to eyeball stay.
 
WATSON (voice over): In 2020 a deadly skirmish like this left at least 20 Indian soldiers and 4 Chinese soldiers dead.
 
SINGH: India does not want China to be the hegemonic power in Asia, and the United States for its own reason does not want China to be the hegemonic 
 
 power there. So the interests are very well aligned. They're very much shared.
 
WATSON (voice over): Shared interests that have led to growing military partnerships like the Quad which includes India, the U.S. Japan and 
 
 Australia.
 
WATSON (on camera): India has long been described as the world's largest democracy. But critics argue some basic democratic freedoms have come under 
 
 fire during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's nine years in office.
 
WATSON (voice over): A widespread crackdown on dissent, arresting protesters in the streets, jailing reporters and raiding news organizations 
 
 that criticize the government.
 
SIDDARTH VARDARAJAN, FOUNDING EDITOR, THE WIRE: We've been raided once we've had cases filed against us over the past years, but the way in which 
 
 the Modi government has been operating has been one of targeting or punishing journalists and media platforms are trying to do their job.
 
WATSON (voice over): The U.S. State Department reports serious human rights issues in India ranging from the unjustified prosecution of journalists to 
 
 allegations of attacks against members of religious minorities. Delhi says the reports are based on misinformation and flawed understanding.
 
Despite these differences, India's intensely popular yet polarizing Prime Minister has been invited to address the U.S. Congress on Thursday a rare 
 
 honor and a sign of the deepening ties between the U.S. and this South Asian giant. Ivan Watson, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
ASHER: White House Reporter Kevin Liptak is with us this hour from Washington. We also have Vedika Sud in New Delhi. Kevin, let me start with 
 
 you because there's been so much criticism, of course level towards Narendra Modi because of democratic backsliding. Also increasing 
 
 authoritarianism, cracking down on journalists on dissent on Muslims as well just walk us through why this visit was so important for President 
 
 Biden?
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, and it certainly does require some trade-offs for President Biden, who has made this whole idea of 
 
 autocracy versus democracy sort of the central architecture of his entire foreign policy.
 
But I think President Biden said it himself in his opening remarks earlier today, the U.S./India relationship will be one of the defining 
 
 relationships of the 21st century. And in his view, really, there is no major issue confronting the globe whether it's China, whether it's climate 
 
 change, whether it's Russia, that isn't going to require some sort of buy in from India, the world's most populous country, its most populous 
 
 democracy, and so I think that is a sort of his rationale for laying out this red carpet visit for Modi today.
 
And you saw it on the South Lawn packed with people the way it has said there were 7000 people on the South Lawn today, and it's raining. So it's a 
 
 significant number of people. There's the red carpet, there's the marching troops.
 
This is the highest level of American diplomacy that can be extended to any world leader. But at the same time, I don't think you're necessarily going 
 
 to see President Biden shy away from this issue of human rights.
 
In fact, he really could not do that and really maintain any sort of credibility, particularly among Democrats in his own party. And he did 
 
 reference it sort of obtuse when he was speaking earlier this morning listen to a little bit of what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: And as democracies, we can better tap into the full talent of all of our people, and attract investments as true and trusted partners, as 
 
 leading nations with our greatest export being the power of our example.
 
Equity under the law, freedom of expression, religious pluralism, and diversity of our people, these core principles have endured and evolved, 
 
 even as they have faced challenges throughout each of our nation's histories, and will fuel our strength, depth and future.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIPTAK: Now, we will see these two men standing side by side later today in the East Room for what the White House called statements and taking 
 
 questions from the press. Even that was the subject of quite intense negotiations between the Indian delegation and the United States, President 
 
 Modi, or Prime Minister Modi rather does not regularly hold press conferences.
 
He doesn't regularly take questions from the press, but that is sort of a signature component of any state visit to the White House. And so they were 
 
 able to secure some agreement there. So that we've very interesting moment, when we see them walk out after these extensive Oval Office talks later 
 
 today, Zain.
 
ASHER: I understood that there were several negotiations about how many questions for example Prime Minister Modi would be taken, given that he 
 
 doesn't make any given news conferences or international interviews, either?
 
Vedika Sud, let me bring you in because obviously, we know that India is crucial in terms of U.S. strategy in Asia, especially given that U.S. 
 
 relations with China are at an all-time low, just walk us through what the view is from India, as to the state visit?
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: Zain I think it even holds the same for India, U.S. China ties are at an all-time low, at least in the recent decades. And 
 
 that's after the clashes between the two in the Himalayas and ever since it's been really difficult to have the two sides talk across the table.
 
There have been a lot of call commander meets but there's been no real outcome or solution to the problem at the line of actual control. But I 
 
 think the U.S. President recognizes how important India is that it's the counterbalance to China in Asia.
 
And like Kevin just pointed out there will be tradeoffs because he needs India. He needs in order to counterbalance China and because of the growing 
 
 powers in the region that is the only way to be and that's why you see everything being high on optics today.
 
You've seen the pomp, you've seen the welcome, you've seen the music, you've seen the dance, and Narendra Modi will be a very happy Prime 
 
 Minister when he goes back simply because if this was 10 years ago he couldn't set foot into America because he was denied a visa due to the 
 
 rights in which he was accused.
 
It was something that the Supreme Court gave him a clean sheet later on. But today he's there. He's getting a state visit and what are high on the 
 
 agenda are the defense teams. There is technology. There is space exploration. There are talks on H1B visas being eased a lot of them on the 
 
 table there when these two men talk and that should have started now.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
But I really want to point to one very important factor here. Biden knows the close ties between Russia and India. He knows how much India depends on 
 
 the Kremlin for oil, and for military weapons. But at this point in time with Russia's invasion of Ukraine, he's also aware as India that those 
 
 weapons cannot be sent to India.
 
And that's where he wants to step in. He knows that India cannot be the ally America wants India to be, but can be a very, very close partner. And 
 
 India needs those weapons. That's the bottom line. So you give some you take some that's the relationship.
 
High on optics, but we'll have to see if a big defense deal is announced here, because that's what India needs at this point in time because it can 
 
 completely depend only on Russia for it. And that's what Joe Biden wants more dependence on America. He wants to give those military weapons to 
 
 India to make this partnership a closer one back to you Zain.
 
ASHER: Vedika Sud live for us there and Kevin Liptak thank you both so much. All right, right now we are also watching for any word from the North 
 
 Atlantic after officials announced a special search vehicle how to reach the sea floor.
 
In spite of an international hunt for the missing Titan submersible off the coast of Newfoundland, Canada, we're told the sub could run out of oxygen 
 
 in a matter of hours. It disappeared Sunday carrying five people to the wreckage of the Titanic.
 
Michael Guillen is the scientists who survived a troubled exposition to view the Titanic. He spoke to my CNN colleagues a short time ago about his 
 
 ordeal when his vessel got trapped in the ship's propeller and he was desperate to find a solution. Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL GUILLENI, SCIENTIST, JOURNALIST AND AUTHOR: I mean and I think that's the hardest thing, especially for an intellectual like me who lives 
 
 by the motto for every problem, there is an optimal solution. I mean, I've drummed --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: OK, it looks as though we had some technical issues with that particular interview. I want to bring in Paula Newton who is standing by 
 
 for us in Halifax, Nova Scotia. So Paula, here's the thing, we've been talking about this idea that it is possible that they have already run out 
 
 of oxygen at this point in time.
 
I mean, we have to be honest about the situation we're dealing with here. However, the fact that new equipment is being sent to the area that tells 
 
 us I think that this is very much still a search and rescue operation, not a recovery operation at this point in time, Paula?
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Oh, absolutely, Zain and that's what you hear again, and again, from both Canadian and U.S. officials. And I want to 
 
 say that today is that crucial day, right? They have ramped up this rescue mission as much as they possibly can in four days. What does that include?
 
That includes more ships on the scene, probably likely now about 10. And in fact, we just have an update from Canadian officials here saying that there 
 
 are three coast guard ships in the area right now. And that is good in terms of what they can do in terms of supporting those remote vehicles that 
 
 at least one now has made its way to the seabed floor also on the scene is HMCS Glace Bay, a Canadian ship that has medical specialists on board and 
 
 facilities on board.
 
They're expecting that if they can get these five passengers out of that submergible that then they have the medical teams there and ready on the 
 
 ground to help them. What is also crucial Zain is the update that we received not too far from here from Canadian Forces face Greenwood.
 
They are the ones that are in charge of those P3 auroras. They have been setting out those sonar buoys in the water. They picked up the sounds, both 
 
 Tuesday and Wednesday. We are hoping to hear again that they are hearing those same noises.
 
And they say that they have around the clock assets that include air crews that continually are listening for noises on the sea. It is without 
 
 question, Zain the best shot that they've had in four days to try and find these five passengers.
 
ASHER: I think what's pretty difficult to think about is you know, aside from obviously, issues when it comes to oxygen is what the past four days 
 
 must have been like for the people on board the submersible. Yes, oxygen, obviously an issue but so is hypothermia. You think about how cold it is on 
 
 this vessel.
 
And also it's very dark as well. I mean, just explain to us based on you know, your reporting you know, as this is very much still a search and 
 
 rescue operation, we are obviously holding on to any hope that we can. What would the past 96 hours or so, have been like for the crew on board this 
 
 submersible Paula?
 
NEWTON: Yes Zain it is unsettling, it's unnerving and especially for the families it must be excruciating. Obviously let's think about the five 
 
 people down there.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
It is dark. It is cold. At the same time the two experts that are on board that is the CEO of OceanGate, Expedition Rush Stockton and that expert 
 
 French Mariner PH Nargeolet. They will be telling you the other three, look, we need to conserve oxygen.
 
Yes, that means sleep when you can exert as little energy as possible, except everyone is hoping when they are possibly banging on the side of 
 
 that submarine. Again, we do not know if they have provisions for things like food on there. But the point is survival is still a distinct 
 
 possibility.
 
And what does that mean? That means you can't panic. That means although you're cold, although you've not had a lot of food, although it is 
 
 absolutely dark and you have no idea what's going on, that you need to try and have that will to survive at the same time trying to keep ever present 
 
 --
 
ASHER: Paula, I'm so sorry I have to interrupt because President Biden and Narendra Modi are speaking right now the White House let's listen in.
 
BIDEN: Over that past 10 years, those small steps have transformed in the large progress. Today the partnership between our countries is stronger 
 
 than it's ever been. We stay in our major defense partnership now -- Indo Pacific peace and security structure.
 
We see our economic ties and efforts to promote inclusive economic growth for our people. And quite frankly, people all around the world. And we see 
 
 in our growing cooperation of a whole range of issues in space, emerging technologies, clean energy, and global infrastructure. Thank you, Mr. Prime 
 
 Minister for your decision to and hosting the G-20 this year. And focusing the world on the challenges matters not just to you and me or countries but 
 
 to all of us.
 
I look forward to discussing how we can strengthen our partnership and build a future together worthy both to our people one grounded on 
 
 democracy, human rights, freedom and rule of law. So I welcome again, Mr. Prime Minister, we have a big agenda. We continue to build our progress 
 
 again, step by step continue to build.
 
MODI: Your Excellency President Biden, I once again express my heartfelt gratitude to you and to Dr. Jill Biden for the hospitality and the respect 
 
 that you have shown to me and my delegation. And more importantly, because you open the doors of the White House today for the Indian people and they 
 
 were there in thousands to witness the future of our strategic partnership.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
Your Excellency, you've always been India's friend and well-wisher for a very long time. And whenever you have gotten an opportunity, you have 
 
 always given force and strength to our bilateral relations. Excellency, eight years ago, while addressing the U.S. India Business Council, you had 
 
 said, our goal is to become India's best friend.
 
And it is this personal commitment of yours towards India that is inspiring us to take many bold and ambitious initiatives. Today, India and the U.S. 
 
 are walking shoulder-to-shoulder in every field from the depths of the oceans to the heights of the skies, from ancient culture to artificial 
 
 intelligence.
 
Excellency, wherever there is talk of relations between any two countries from a diplomatic point of view, people often talk about some form of joint 
 
 statements working groups, MOUs, all these definitely have their own importance, but the real engine of the India U.S. relationship is our 
 
 strong people to people ties. And we just heard a spirited roar of that engine out on the White House lots.
 
You're Excellency, as you said, and I would like to reiterate that in today's rapidly changing global situation, all eyes are on the two largest 
 
 democracies of the world, India and America. I believe that our strategic partnership is important for welfare of the humankind, global peace and 
 
 stability and for all countries believing in democratic values.
 
And this is important than ever before. I'm confident that working together we will be successful in enhancing the strengths of the whole world.
 
We will talk about many such issues today and we will add new dimensions to our strategic partnership. I once again express my heartfelt gratitude to 
 
 you for your friendship. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
 
BIDEN: Thank you.
 
MODI: Thank you, friends.
 
ASHER: Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaking at the White House there and remarks that were translated into English from his native Hindi during a 
 
 historic state visit to the U.S. to Washington. This is by the way, President Joe Biden's third state visit that he's hosted in his time in 
 
 office.
 
He's only been in office for two and a half years. This comes at a time of increasing tensions between the U.S. and China and that means that India 
 
 plays a much more strategically important role in terms of a U.S. ally in the region.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
Obviously the visit is not without controversy, though; given Narendra Modi is being accused of cracking down on journalists on descend and 
 
 discrimination against Muslims in his home country. But there have been and there will be a long list of initiatives that are signed between both 
 
 countries as a result of this state visit including when it comes to AI, semiconductors telecommunications, as well. You are watching "Connect the 
 
 World". We're right back after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: Welcome back to "Connect the World". Your headlines this hour, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is meeting U.S. President Joe Biden at 
 
 the White House on a state visit. In opening remarks, President Biden praised the country's enduring ties and shared values.
 
The two leaders are expected to announce agreements in defense and manufacturing. Mr. Modi will address the U.S. Congress a bit later on. 
 
 Officials say a medical team and a decompression chamber are standing by at the scene. The Titans subs rescue efforts were told the missing vessel 
 
 could run out of breathable air in a matter of hours in a frantic set operation in the North Atlantic has reached its most critical stage.
 
An explosion at a barbecue restaurant in northwestern China has killed 31 people. State media reported the blast was called caused by a liquefied gas 
 
 tank leak inside the restaurant and that nine people have been arrested, seven people reportedly injured one critically.
 
All right, fighting back, Russia says Ukraine has damaged a key bridge connecting Crimea to southern Ukraine. Russia state news reports one of 
 
 four missiles Ukraine fired hit the Chonhar Bridge. The bridge is the shortest route for moving Russian forces from Crimea to the southern 
 
 frontlines where Kyiv is pressing forward with its offensive.
 
CNN's Ben Wedeman is reporting for us from the southern Zaporizhzhia region. He joins us live now. So Ben, just talk to us a little bit more 
 
 about the strategic importance of this bridge for the Russians.
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, this bridge is actually one of the few ways to get out of Crimea and into the Russian 
 
 occupied parts of southern Ukraine. And this may cause complications for the Russian war effort in this part of the country. Now what's also 
 
 interesting is it appears that this bridge perhaps was hit white by the Storm Shadow cruise missiles provided by Britain that have a range of more 
 
 than 250 kilometers.
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
Now regarding the Ukrainian counter offensive, we've heard even from President Zelenskyy that it's been slow it's made slower progress than was 
 
 expected. But Ukrainian officials are also eager to tell you that as far as the offensive goes, this is just the beginning.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WEDEMAN (voice over): An unknown Russian soldier lost his life here on a dirt road in the small village of -- . He was killed in Ukraine's counter 
 
 offensive, which has, at best so far put a small dent in Russian lines, hardly the turning points so many had hoped for.
 
WEDEMAN (on camera): This is one of the villages that was liberated by the Ukrainians, this one on the 10th of June. And clearly the Russians were in 
 
 a hurry, they left behind this blood soaked stretcher.
 
WEDEMAN (voice over): It's still too dangerous for civilians to return to these ones tranquil farming communities, and there isn't much left for them 
 
 to return to. The mortar crew of the 35th Ukrainian marine brigade has moved into a house recently vacated by Russian troops. This afternoon, 
 
 they're busy piling up newly arrived American made shells.
 
Far better than the old Soviet ammunition says Andre, but amazing, they're just great, he says. They hit the bulls-eye my favorite. Throughout the day 
 
 shelling echoes around them, the Russians may have left the village, yet they're still nearby.
 
Uris mortar training in Britain didn't prepare him for the front. This is only his third day in the line of fire. There are moments when I want to 
 
 hide he says, but I have to stay put and wait. Unit commander Alexander takes coordinates from headquarters. His men make the adjustments and 
 
 prepare the rounds.
 
WEDEMAN (on camera): They're firing these rounds in Russian lines which are four kilometers or two miles away.
 
WEDEMAN (voice over): It's going to be a long, hot summer.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WEDEMAN: And what we saw there Zain was just how difficult it can be for the Ukrainian troops. They told us that they are able to push Russian 
 
 infantry back. But as soon as that happens, they come under intense barrages from Russian artillery, Zain.
 
ASHER: Ben Wedeman live for us there. Thank you so much. All right, let's get you up to speed on some other stories that are on our radar right now. 
 
 Let's start with South Korea where police have issued an arrest warrant for a woman accused of killing her newborns, two of her newborns rather than 
 
 keeping them in her freezer for years.
 
Police say the woman admitted to killing them because she faced economic hardship. The babies were only a day old when they died. At least 181 
 
 Pakistan nationals are officially missing after the migrant boat disaster in Greece. The government collected DNA samples from family members who 
 
 reported loved ones missing.
 
Earlier Pakistan authorities said more than three hundreds of its citizens died in the accident. The official death toll for Greek authorities stands 
 
 at 82. Islamic Jihad says that three Palestinian militants were killed in an IDF drone attack on Wednesday. The Israel Defense Forces says it was 
 
 targeting a vehicle that was carrying a terrorist cell is very rare for Israel's target individuals with drone strikes in the West Bank.
 
And throughout the day, we've been discussing Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's state visit to the White House despite concerns over human 
 
 rights in India. The dilemma when to engage with leaders even when you have deep differences. Former U.S. President Barack Obama talks about that with 
 
 CNN's Christiane Amanpour in Greece, the birthplace of democracy, here's some of their exclusive interview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: President Biden, man who you know, extremely well, has made the defense of democracy the sort of 
 
 centerpiece of his administration. It just so happens that right now, there's also not just, you know threats to democracy by dictatorships and 
 
 autocrats, but also in liberal democracy as well.
 
He has called the President of China a dictator and they're sticking with it. He is also hosting as we speak, the Prime Minister of India Modi, who 
 
 is considered autocratic or at least a liberal Democrat. What is the point I guess or how should a president engage with those kinds of leaders either 
 
 in the naming of them or in the dealing with them?
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
BARACK OBAMA, 44TH U.S. PRESIDENT: Look, it's complicated. The President of the United States has a lot of equities. And when I was president, I would 
 
 deal with figures, in some cases who are allies, who, if you've, if you press me in private, do they run their governments and their political 
 
 parties in ways that I would say are ideally democratic, I'd have to say, no.
 
AMANPOUR: -- nick names.
 
OBAMA: No, of course not. But you got to do business with because they're important for national security reasons. There are a range of economic 
 
 interests, you know, I had dealt with China, to get the Paris Accords done. I dealt with Modi to get the Paris Accords done. Because I think climate 
 
 change is something that transcends any particular momentary issues.
 
It's a problem that humanity has got to deal with over the next several decades, in a serious way. I do think that it is appropriate for the 
 
 President of the United States where he or she can to uphold those principles and to challenge whether behind closed doors or in public trends 
 
 that are troubling.
 
And so, I'm less concerned about labels than I'm concerned about specific practices. You know, I think it is important for the President of the 
 
 United States to say that if you have Uyghurs in China, who are being placed in mass camps, and "re-educated", that's a problem. That's a 
 
 challenge to all of us.
 
And we have to pay attention to it. I think it is true that if the President meets with Prime Minister Modi, then the protection of the Muslim 
 
 minority in a majority Hindu India, that's something worth mentioning. Because, and by the way, if I had a conversation with Prime Minister Modi, 
 
 who I know well, part of my argument would be that if you do not protect the rights of ethnic minorities in India, then there is a strong 
 
 possibility India at some point, starts pulling apart.
 
And we've seen what happens when you start getting those kinds of large internal conflicts, so that would be contrary to the interests not just a 
 
 Muslim, India, but also Hindu India. So I think it's important to be able to talk about these things honestly. You're never going to have, things are 
 
 never going to be as clean as you'd like, because the world is complicated.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: That was CNN's Christiane Amanpour speaking with former U.S. President Barack Obama. You can watch the entire interview Thursday, at 10 
 
 o'clock at night New York Time and again on Friday at 6 p.m. in London, it is of course a CNN Exclusive. Don't miss it.
 
Russia's Supreme Court dismissed an appeal by Alexey Navalny against restrictions imposed on access to writing materials in prison. The jailed 
 
 Russian opposition leader attended the hearing via video link today. The decision comes as Navalny is facing a new trial on charges of extremism.
 
He's already serving sentences totaling more than 11 years. Meantime, the Wall Street Journal reporter accused of spying on Russia was back in a 
 
 Moscow courtroom today other than Glasgow which was appealing a court order that allows Russia to hold him in prison while he awaits trial.
 
His appeal was denied. The American Ambassador to Russia said the U.S. was extremely disappointed in the decisions. CNN's Kylie Atwood is monitoring 
 
 the developments. Kylie?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, well, as you said, the U.S. Ambassador to Russia Lynne Tracy attended. She was at the court today 
 
 while this hearing was taking place. And after the decision came down with the court rejecting his appeal for his pre-trial detention, which had been 
 
 extended for three months just last month, she said the U.S. was very disappointed extremely disappointed in this decision.
 
She also pointed out that Russia has consistently three times now denied U.S. requests for consular access that is being able to see Evan 
 
 Gershkovich while he's in jail three times now and that is something that is against international norms. Usually the United States is able to have 
 
 access to these prisoners who are detained or in this case, of course wrongfully detained in Russia.
 
She also made a point to be sure that the world hears that the U.S. believes that he is indeed wrongfully detained. There's no legitimate 
 
 reason for his detention Russia, she said he was there as a journalist doing his job.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
Another interesting things in is that actually his parents attended the court today. This is the second hearing in a row where his parents have 
 
 actually been present at the courtroom, they were able to visit with him speak to him in between, you know, this sessions in the court.
 
And, you know, it's, it's remarkable because his parents are from New Jersey, they are, they fled the Soviet Union in the late 1980s, came to the 
 
 United States. And obviously, they felt it was really important for them, to be able to see their son in person. And so that's why they have traveled 
 
 over there.
 
But that's an interesting, you know, factoid that we continue to watch because typically, Americans really just aren't traveling into Russia right 
 
 now. We'll watch to see where this goes. But as of now, the next time that we're likely to see Gershkovich in court would be in August, because that 
 
 is the time when this true pretrial detention period would be concluded.
 
And we'll see you know, where the Russian court system goes from there. But U.S. officials are very clear and saying that the Russian court system is 
 
 pretty much a bogus system. It's not one where you can really predict what's going to happen or the decisions, excuse me, the, you know, decision 
 
 making behind what their verdicts actually find.
 
ASHER: Yes, he's being held at least until the end of August, as I understand it, but as you point out incredible that his parents not just 
 
 once, now twice, have made that journey to Russia to see this. Kylie Atwood live for us there, thank you so much. All right, still to come here on 
 
 "Connect the World" how a conservationist is trying to save a rare lizard from extinction.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: All right. Throughout this week, "Call to Earth" is looking at species facing the threat of extinction. Our Guest Editor Gerardo Garcia 
 
 has worked with some of the biggest and most ferocious reptiles on the planet. Today we see the work he's doing to protect one of the Earth's most 
 
 secretive lizards.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER (voice over): The Bermuda skink is one of the world's rarest and most elusive lizards. When Gerardo Garcia first took the species on Chester Zoo, 
 
 almost nothing was known about their biology, their habitats, or even the difference between male and females.
 
The solution was to set up a big brother star camera system in the zoo, closely monitoring every movement of the skin and breeding them for 
 
 reintroduction in Bermuda.
 
GERARDO GARCIA, HEAD OF ECTOTHERMS, CHESTER ZOO: When we were looking for these females, and if you they breed in every single time we lift the rock, 
 
 we see a female crawling around the eggs, but it hasn't been seen in the wild. These animals is leaving the limestone under the crevices. You don't 
 
 see clutches of eggs.
 
So only when you have animals here in a very intensive care at the zoo, we're able to really understand it, all this gaps of understanding of the 
 
 biology of the species, which he thinks back to how to monitor the species back in the wild in Bermuda.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
ASHER (voice over): Rats, cats and other invasive species have nearly wiped out the skink population on the mainland. But on several of the smaller 
 
 satellite islands, a tiny population of around 1500 individuals remains.
 
MARK OUTERBRIDGE, WILDLIFE ECOLOGIST, DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT, BERMUDA: There are hundreds of Nonsuch islands that form this or satellite chain 
 
 around the main islands. They really become our life rafts for species that are becoming threatened in ways that we can't control on the main island.
 
ASHER (voice over): Gerardo and his colleague Mark Outerbridge are setting traps across the castle Harbor Islands, with the hope of verifying the size 
 
 of the surviving skink population.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: What we aim to do is set the jar at a good 45 degree angle, so that when the skinks come to the edge, and then actually commit to going 
 
 in, when the time comes for them to leave, they can't get back out.
 
ASHER (voice over): One hour later, and it's time to check on the tracks.
 
GARCIA: How many there are two there?
 
OUTERBRIDGE: One there?
 
GARCIA: Oh, yes, we got one.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: We found one.
 
GARCIA: Very nice, look.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: Oh, it's a lovely one.
 
GARCIA: It's an adult.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: It is.
 
GARCIA: It has just been six years.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: It has been six since the last -- from six years. That's right.
 
GARCIA: Six years, the population is still here. And that's good.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: All right.
 
GARCIA: Let's have a quick look and take us on Michigan's first.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: I hope very nice, very good.
 
GARCIA: adult, perfect tail.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: I know. No scarring.
 
GARCIA: No scarring, no bites.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: Oh, looks like it's got all its fingers and toes. Sure we got a total right.
 
GARCIA: Yes, total -- .
 
OUTERBRIDGE: 10 there.
 
GARCIA: Yes. And it has no loss of tail no mutilation.
 
ASHER (voice over): Over on Castle Island to more skinks, including a juvenile and encouraging side of the colony is continuing to reproduce.
 
OUTERBRIDGE: I don't think anyone can really ever retire and feel like don't have to worry about these animals anymore. I think you know they're 
 
 always going to be fragile. It's just a degree of fragility.
 
I think as long as you can feel that you were a helpful contributing factor to their slow progression away from the wall of extinction. You know, maybe 
 
 they're just now near friends. Well, that's, that's good enough. These creatures deserve to be here certainly as much as we do.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: To see more of Gerardo Garcia's work in Bermuda, tune in to the full documentary "Call to Earth" the edge of extinction, airing this weekend on 
 
 CNN. Have much more after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: Several arrests have been made in northwestern China after a deadly accident at a barbecue restaurant. CNN's Kristie Lu Stout reports the glass 
 
 explosion is just the latest in a string of safety incidents in the country.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): At least 31 people are dead and seven injured after a gas explosion at a barbecue restaurant in 
 
 northwest China. According to state media, the blast took place in Yinchuan city Wednesday night around 8:40 p.m. It was caused by a leaking liquefied 
 
 petroleum gas tank inside the restaurant according to state media.
 
This video shows the aftermath of the explosion smoke and flames arising from the burning restaurant and firefighters were on site working to put 
 
 out the blaze. State media reports that police have detained nine people, including the restaurant manager, employees and shareholders, their assets 
 
 have also been frozen.
 
According to a local government statement an hour before the blast, two restaurant workers smelled a gas leak and found that the valve of the gas 
 
 tank was broken. When the valve was replaced with the new one, the explosion took place. Now China has been rocked by a number of safety 
 
 incidents this year.
 
In February, a coal mine collapse in Inner Mongolia left 53 people dead, and in April 29 died after a fire erupted at a hospital in Beijing. It was 
 
 the deadliest fire to hit the Capitol in two decades.
 
In the wake of the latest disaster, Chinese leader Xi Jinping issued instructions to authorities on the scene requiring all efforts to treat the 
 
 injured and protect resident's safety. According to state run CCTV he called the incident heartbreaking and a profound lesson. Kristie Lu Stout 
 
 CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Now to new tensions in the Taiwan Strait. Taiwan's defense ministry says a Chinese aircraft carrier sailed through the area Wednesday, 
 
 remaining west of the median line dividing Mainland China and Taiwan. Taiwan is to develop forces to respond to the situation.
 
The U.S. says on Tuesday, one of its coast guard ships conducted a routine transit through the Taiwan Strait. Tensions come amid concerns China could 
 
 consider invading Taiwan. Possibility Taiwan's military is preparing for. CNN's Jim Sciutto has more in this exclusive report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Commanders of a Taiwanese mechanized infantry combat team lay out their battle plan. 
 
 Today's mission, defending the Penghu Islands situated right in the middle of the Taiwan Strait from a Chinese paratrooper assault. In rapid 
 
 succession infantry units storm a captured airfield. A column of tanks quickly follows.
 
This maneuver is just a training exercise, but with a very serious goal of readying these forces to defend Taiwan from a Chinese invasion.
 
COL. CHANG CHI-MING, TAIWAN CHIEF OF OPERATIONS, FIRST COMBAT ZONE: In the event of a paratrooper assault on the Hmong airbase, our troops will be 
 
 able to respond instantly and defend the territory.
 
SCIUTTO (voice over): Exercises like this one are almost daily events on Taiwan's Penghu Islands. Less than 100 miles from Mainland China, they are 
 
 a first line of defense for Taiwan against a Chinese invasion, home to Taiwanese Army, Air Force and naval bases. And not all operations for these 
 
 forces are simulations.
 
In fact, as I visited Penghu, four PLA Air Force fighter jets entered Taiwan's air defense identification zone. Taiwanese Air Force fighters from 
 
 a gong airbase scrambled to respond. Before they fly, they are armed with live ammunition for combat. Lieutenant Colonel Bi Shi Quan -- big commands 
 
 the coyote Squadron.
 
LT. COL. BI SHI QUAN, TAIWAN AIR FORCE: Sometimes its reconnaissance, sometimes it is training. Other we're performing combat readiness missions 
 
 here, the training has never stopped.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you proud of the job that you're here?
 
LT. QUAN: Of course.
 
SCIUTTO (voice over): Taiwanese Navy ships based here have had close calls of their own, and they sail with an array of anti-ship and anti-air 
 
 missiles to do their part in defending against an invasion.
 
SCIUTTO (on camera): The Taiwanese military here in Penghu is engaged not just in drills and training, but in genuine operations responding to 
 
 Chinese military operations in the Taiwan Strait. And commanders in the Navy, the Air Force and the Army tell me their mission is to prepare to 
 
 defend their country.
 
SCIUTTO (voice over): Taiwan by his billions of dollars in weapons from the U.S. but its defense plan depends in large part on developing and 
 
 manufacturing many of its own weapons. Its indigenous fighter jets and many of its navy frigates and APCs and tanks are all Taiwan built.
 
CAPT. CHUNG-HSIAO PENG, TAIWAN NAVY: That's our totally water. We won't allow other countries should sale that waters without permission.
 
SCIUTTO (voice over): On Penghu, Taiwanese military units are widely dispersed for force protection to make them more difficult targets for any 
 
 invading force.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
There's a saying here one commander told me, if you want to take Taiwan, you have to take Penghu first, and these forces are training to make sure 
 
 that never happens Jim Sciutto, CNN, "The Penghu Islands", Taiwan.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Turkey's Central Bank almost doubled interest rates to 15 percent today as President Erdogan reverses his policy on fighting inflation. The 
 
 Central Bank said there were indications that inflation in Turkey was increasing even as inflation in many other countries is coming down. The 
 
 dollar is once again gaining on the Turkish Lira as the increase was less than the markets are expected.
 
A quick update for you on the missing submersible that we've been talking about, the U.S. Coast Guard is saying that a debris field, a debris field 
 
 was discovered within the search area barn by an ROV near the Titanic. A debris field was discovered by an ROV in the search area near the Titanic 
 
 experts within the unified command are evaluating the information.
 
Of course, we will give you that information as and when we have it. Right, I'll be back next hour with much more on "One World". You're on CNN, don't 
 
 go away.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END