Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Robert Kraft is Interviewed about Tom Brady; Experts say AI will Take Jobs and Create Jobs; Ohio Probing Nazi Homeschooling Network. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired February 02, 2023 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:30:00] 
 
ROBERT KRAFT, OWNER, NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS: As part of the team and feel very special.
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR: Just with that, I mean, we could end the interview there. We told our viewers, no one had more insight than Bob Kraft, right? 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Well, it's true. 
 
And also, you know, for our viewers who might not know, you really loved him like a son. That's how you've described the relationship between the two of you guys, right? 
 
And I wonder if you can take us into -- because, remember, he was the - you're the owner of the Patriots. You guys draft him. He's 199th draft pick. And then look what he turns out to be and look what he does for the franchise. 
 
KRAFT: Yes, I think the good thing for us, as the Patriots is, when he played at Michigan, I don't think they realized how special he was because he should have been the number one pick in the draft, not 199 in the sixth round. And when he came in to us, you know, I never -- I'll share a story. It was near the end of training camp, and I was driving out. And he was coming down the steps of our little building. And he had a pizza under his arm from the food service. And he came up to me and said, hi, I'm Tom Brady. I said, I know who you are, you're our sixth round draft pick from Michigan. And he looked me in the eye and he said, I'm the best choice your franchise -- I'm the best decision your franchise has ever made. And I looked him in the eye and, you know, he just said it in a way -- now, you've got to understand, we just gave 100 million, the biggest contract to any quarterback to Drew Bledsoe just before this, a few months before. And he was number four in our depth (ph) chart. He came down and he really believed what he said. 
 
LEMON: He certainly did. 
 
KRAFT: And he was right. 
 
LEMON: And that's -- you took the words out of my mouth. I was just going to say that. Bob, you -- did you want him to retire before? Did you think he should
 
 have come back this past season? 
 
KRAFT: You know, there are certain decisions in life that I always believe in giving counsel and trying to be supportive, but only an individual on his own can make a decision like that. They can ask -- no one knows the different pressures, what alternatives are open to them in this game, how their body feels physically, whether there is something that's dysfunctional that won't allow them to perform the way they want, because in the end the real competitors in this game are playing to win every week. And if something's dysfunctional in their body, you know, that can take away from it. 
 
HARLOW: You know, we're a little bit - two weeks -- less than two weeks away from the big game, the Super Bowl. You guys got six Super Bowl rings together. I wonder, was it Brady, was it Belichick, who was more responsible, do you think, for all those Super Bowl wins? 
 
KRAFT: Well, when we -- this is our 29th season we just completed. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. 
 
KRAFT: And we were privileged to go to ten Super Bowls. So -- and win six of them. And what I learned is, it's a lot of things. It's - it's probably the sport of football and winning in it requires team effort like nothing else, which is so important for our society. And you need great stars like Belichick and Brady. But you need a lot of other people pulling in the same direction. In the end, though, to answer your question, you can't win if you don't have a good coach and a good quarterback. 
 
LEMON: Amen. 
 
KRAFT: I was blessed to have both of that, probably the best in the history of the game. You know, I think back, whether there - there's over 25,000 or 30,000 players who played football, how lucky are we up here in New England to have the greatest that's ever played. And really played for us for 20 percent of the history of the league in 100-odd years. I don't think there are too many quarterbacks that played for one team. 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
LEMON: Bob, you're so right about having a great coach. And - and then, you know, he -- Tom needed good people around him. 
 <br>[08:35:01]
 
We talked to, yesterday, to John Berman, who is a, you know, Tom Brady super fan. He said he just didn't have the support that he had around him when he was with you guys. 
 
My question, though, is, are there any plans, Bob, to make sure that he retires? I mean are you going to sign him to a one-day contract?
 
HARLOW: Do you want him back? LEMON: Yes. To retire a Patriot. 
 
KRAFT: I'd do it tomorrow. 
 
LEMON: For him to retire a Patriot is the question. 
 
KRAFT: Oh, I see. Not - not only do I want it, our fans are clamoring for it. And to us, he is, always has been, and always will be a Patriot. And we will be bringing him back after -- I have not - I don't like to make a commitment for him, but we will do everything in our power to bring him back, have him sign off as a Patriot -
 
LEMON: Nice.
 
KRAFT: And find ways to honor him for many years to come because he did so much to bring life and good cheer to our community, and he's a beloved figure. And he's earned the respect and love that people feel for him like no other athlete in our town. And we've had some great ones. 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
LEMON: If you could spare, Poppy, to call that breaking news? I mean Bob -
 
HARLOW: Sure. Yes. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 
Well, it's so nice to get to hear from you, Bob, this morning, about him. 
 
LEMON: Hey, Bob, before we - before we go, though.
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
LEMON: I mean, look, he's like a son. So, while you have this audience here on CNN, I know you're - you're going to miss him. I know you missed him when he left the Patriots, but you still were in contact with him. You love his family. 
 
What are your parting words, because I know you love him like a son. 
 
KRAFT: Well, Tommy, I'm always here for you. You're -- you are a part of our family. You know, and partly -- he was blessed having great parents. His mom and dad are super people. He's got three great sisters. And I was thinking about it, he was the baby, you know. And -- so to have four great women like that and then a role model. And for him not to be super spoiled, I don't know how it happened. You know, out there in California area, where everything is a little different than it is here in the Northeast. He just - we - we - we -- I tell you, I just love the guy so much and there isn't anything I wouldn't do for him. And I think he can do a lot of good things for America and reach out to a lot of people. And thank you for the time you gave us and everyone here in the New England region loves you and respects you and wants happiness for you in your life. 
 
HARLOW: So well said. LEMON: So nice. 
 
HARLOW: Bob Kraft, we appreciate you. Thank you. 
 
LEMON: Thanks, Bob. Good to see you. Be well. 
 
KRAFT: Thanks, Poppy. Thanks, Don. 
 
LEMON: All right.
 
KRAFT: Great to talk to you both. 
 
HARLOW: You too.
 
That was great. 
 
LEMON: I know, that was pretty awesome. I mean, should we even talk.
 
We'll be right back. 
 
That was awesome. That's all we'll say.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:42:19]
 
HARLOW: This morning, recent innovations like ChatGPT and other artificial intelligence tools appear to be able to do a lot of what we humans can do, and faster. Like, AI doesn't sleep, right? That means some workers will ultimately be displaced when this technology takes over their roles. Experts say it also means many brand-new employment opportunities. 
 
Our Vanessa Yurkevich is tracking all of this.
 
Good morning.
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Good morning.
 
So, listen, we all saw ChatGPT explode on to the scene in the last couple months. People were really intrigued by it. Thought, wow, this could help me at work. That quickly turned to, wait a minute, can this platform, this AI platform, do my job better than I can? So, a lot of Americans are asking, is artificial intelligence here to help me or take my job? 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
YURKEVICH: Which jobs is AI coming after first? 
 
SHELLY PALMER, PROFESSOR OF ADVANCED MEDIA, SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY: If you're a middle manager, you're doomed. Any kind of commodity salesperson, report writers and journalists, accountants and bookkeepers, and, oddly enough, doctors who are looking - who specialize in things like drug interactions. YURKEVICH: Do you mean out of a job -
 
PALMER: No.
 
YURKEVICH: Or you mean that part of your job -- 
 
PALMER: That part.
 
YURKEVICH: OK.
 
PALMER: Yes.
 
YURKEVICH (voice over): That's the relief a lot of Americans are looking for right now. The explosion of ChatGPT, an AI platform, showed us it could do a lot of what we humans do at work, and faster. 
 
YURKEVICH (on camera): Will it take my job? 
 
PALMER: Yes and no. It's not going to replace you. Someone who knows how to use it well is going to take your job. And that's a guarantee. 
 
YURKEVICH (voice over): By 2025, the World Economic Forum predicts that 85 million jobs will be displaced by automation and technology, but it will also create 97 million new roles. We've seen it before in the auto industry. 
 
PALMER: While the auto worker may be displaced because they are not as good at welding or as painting than the robot, there's probably 35 people that have to be involved in the creation and maintenance of that device that welds better than a person. 
 
YURKEVICH: And that's what happened at Carbon Robotic. Former auto workers now building an AI laser weeder in Detroit for farms. 
 
PAUL MIKESELL, FOUNDER AND CEO, CARBON ROBOTICS: It's a direct result of the history of auto manufacturing that we have that skill set available to us all in one place. 
 
YURKEVICH: The laser weeder, still operated by a human but run by AI, can do the work of between 40 to 80 people, says the CEO, filling roles that are hard to find humans for. 
 
MIKESELL: Labor is harder and harder to find every year, particularly farm labor. And an AI system like ours that can do that job automatically saves a lot of time, money, effort. 
 
YURKEVICH: This music is composed solely by artificial intelligence called Ava. It even has an album you can stream. 
 <br>[08:45:02]
 
AI music is more affordable. There's no producer, composer or artist to pay. 
 
KARL FOWLKES, ENTERTAINMENT AND BUSINESS ATTORNEY, THE FOWLKES FIRM: It's taken away opportunity from songwriters, producers and artists, right? So, the people that are trying to feed them -- their families. 
 
YURKEVICH: Something similar is happening in the art world, leaving artist Kara Ortiz (ph) and two others to file a class-action lawsuit against three AI art companies for copyright infringement. Ortiz claims they're using her name and art to train the AI. 
 
KARA ORTIZ, ARTIST: It's feast and famine for most of us. We go job by job. And what happens when there's a little bit less work to go around? 
 
YURKEVICH: Stability AI, one of the companies named, says the suit misunderstands how AI and copyright law work, adding it intends to, quote, defend ourselves and the vast potential generative AI has to expand the creative power of humanity. The two other companies did not respond. 
 
ORTIZ: I never thought we'd be here. It's like straight out of a sci- fi movie. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My father tried to teach me human emotions.
 
PALMER: There's a wonderful scene in the movie "I, Robot." Detective Spooner hates robots. And he says -
 
WILL SMITH, ACTOR, "I, ROBOT": Can a robot write a symphony? Can a robot turn a canvas into a beautiful masterpiece?
 
PALMER: And the robot looks up and goes -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you? 
 
PALMER: Every one of us is not Mozart or Rembrandt or Picasso or cause your super famous, amazing artist or artisan. We're just people. This is not coming to kill us, it's coming to help us. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
YURKEVICH: And, spoiler alert, if you haven't seen "I, Robot," what ends up happening is the robots, the artificial intelligence, ends up working with the humans to save humanity. And that's what a lot of AI experts think is going to happen. We're going to be working with artificial intelligence. 
 
And since I gave you, at the top, the top five jobs AI is coming after first, here's the top five jobs, quickly, that AI is coming after last. 
 
LEMON: Oh, boy.
 
YURKEVICH: Last. 
 
HARLOW: Last.
 
YURKEVICH: Preschool, elementary school teacher, professional athlete, politician, judge and mental health professional. That is because these jobs really need a human element. HARLOW: Sure. Judgement.
 
YURKEVICH: Judgment, emotion. A preschool teacher giving a child a hug at the end of the day. So, listen, it's interesting. 
 
LEMON: I noticed journalists were on that list.
 
HARLOW: Oh, I know.
 
YURKEVICH: They were. They were at the top.
 
HARLOW: Get ready. Get ready. We love these series you're doing, so, thank you.
 
YURKEVICH: It's - it's coming. Thank you. It's coming for all of us. But people are saying embrace it. 
 
HARLOW: OK.
 
LEMON: It's better that is saves humanity. It wasn't like "2001: A Space Odyssey," but now, when news is like - news is like, ah, I can't do that. Sorry. 
 
HARLOW: Right.
 
YURKEVICH: Your favorite movie. 
 
HARLOW: See you later.  Yes.
 
Thank you, Vanessa.
 
YURKEVICH: Thank you.
 
LEMON: Thanks.
 
HARLOW: All right.
 
LEMON: Well, outrage in Ohio over a Nazi home-schooling network reportedly using Hitler quotes as an educational resource. We'll tell you about that. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:51:54]
 
LEMON: Welcome back, everyone. 
 
So, new this morning, Ohio's education department is investigating an alleged Nazi homeschooling network that reportedly distributed lesson plans with writing exercises based on Hitler quotes. 
 
To explain, Omar Jimenez is here.
 
Do tell. Good morning to you.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Good morning. Now, for starters, the state education official told me the Ohio Department of Education is basically reviewing compliance with statutory and regulatory policies in this state because it's not clear how much they can actually do about the curriculum of homeschooling. 
 
Now, I want to show you an example. This is a group that they believe operates out of Upper Sandusky, Ohio. And this is an example of a Thanksgiving copy working assignment where basically, you know, you're learning handwriting, elementary school age, and they're using Hitler quote to learn that handwriting. 
 
You know, this is a group that doesn't hide being pro-Nazi, white supremacist, homophobic. Honestly, you name it, it's probably there.
 
I want to show another lesson that was posted - quote, lesson, leading up to Martin Luther King Jr. Day. This was by a user named Mrs. Saxon. She wrote, it is up to us to ensure our children know him, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., for the deceitful, dishonest, riot inducing negro he actually was. He is the face of a movement which ethnically cleansed whites out of urban areas and precipitated the anti-white regime that we are now fighting to free ourselves from. And in bold and underlined, under that she wrote, this is a lesson for elementary aged children.
 
HARLOW: Wow. I wonder what the local school district is responding, but also because it's homeschooling, they do have to be like certified to be able to get the credits, right? 
 
JIMENEZ: Sure.
 
HARLOW: I just wonder what they can do, if anything, to stop this.
 
JIMENEZ: Basically there's an -- there's an annual check sort of to show that you are teaching. 
 
HARLOW: Right.
 
JIMENEZ: Now, what you are teaching is sort of out of their purview.
 
HARLOW: Really?
 
JIMENEZ: And sort of the -- the Upper Sandusky School District superintendent basically said, this is egregious, these teachings. We don't support it. But also said as part of his statement, parents are responsible for choosing the curriculum in homeschooling and the course of study. The parent chosen curriculum is not sponsored or endorsed by the district. 
 
HARLOW: Wow.
 
JIMENEZ: The group's got more than 3,000 subscribers. 
 
HARLOW: Really?
 
JIMENEZ: And, you know, we tried to reach out to the owners. I didn't get a response. Maybe no surprise there. But, obviously, something that the state is paying close attention to. 
 
LEMON: Oh, boy.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes.
 
LEMON: Thank you, Omar.
 
HARLOW: Thank you, Omar.
 
LEMON: Good to see you.
 
JIMENEZ: You too.
 
Kaitlan - we're going to go back to D.C. 
 
Kaitlan. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: You know, I just want to highlight this moment that just happened during the National Prayer Breakfast over here on Capitol Hill. President Biden was attending. It's a tradition for presidents to attend. He was talking about how norms have changed. You know, not just here on The Hill and in Washington, but broadly across the United States and America, talking about how Americans treat one - each other, saying don't see each other as competitors and whatnot. 
 
And he had this interesting remark about Kevin McCarthy. We're going to show you that. That's next.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:58:59]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We start treating each other with respect. That's what Kevin and I are going to do. Not a joke. We had a good meeting yesterday. I think we got to do it across the board. Doesn't mean we're going to agree and fight like hell, but let's treat each other with respect. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: A bit of an olive branch there from President Biden to Kevin McCarthy after they had that meeting that lasted over an hour at the White House. 
 
You know, Don and Poppy, it was a meeting where the expectation of what was going to happen, and it wasn't very high, but you saw Kevin McCarthy walk out and he spoke to reporters out in front of the West Wing yesterday, striking a much more optimistic tone, saying that the meeting went better than he expected it to go, that they - that they found some common ground. But I still think there are major questions about what that path forward is going to look like. 
 
But this is kind of a popular refrain that we've heard from President Biden saying that, you know, when he was on Capitol Hill, he believed lawmakers would argue with one another on the Senate floor, whatnot, maybe the House floor, and then they'd go and break bread, have lunch, and would put their differences aside. 
 <br>[09:00:04]
 
He was saying - essentially lamenting that that does not happen any more in his view. 
 
LEMON: Yes, I had commented earlier in the broadcast - I think it was like at the top of this show, when Kevin McCarthy walked out he said, the conversation that I had with the president of the United States I'm going to keep confident and we're going to keep -
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
LEMON: And I noticed that even about the president saying it this morning, it was palpable.
 
HARLOW: That's good.
 
LEMON: You - I've got say, like, wow, something is different about what (INAUDIBLE).
 
HARLOW: Yes, civility might be gone, but it can come back, right? Hopefully that time is now.
 
Kaitlan, thank you. See you here tomorrow.
 
LEMON: See you. I'll see you guys Monday.
 
HARLOW: CNN "NEWSROOM."
 
Have a good vacation.
 
CNN "NEWSROOM" is now.