Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Sudan Officials: 30 Mass Graves With Remains Of More Than 1,000 People Found In West Darfur; West African Defense Chiefs To Meet Soon In Ghana; Ship Departs Odesa Port, First Since Grain Deal Broke Down. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired August 17, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:30]
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello, and a very warm welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Paula Newton in New York. Just ahead right here on CNN NEWSROOM.
 
A rare glimpse at the horrors of a brutal civil war raging inside Sudan by piecing together videos of one of the region's worst massacres. CNN's exclusive investigation is straight ahead. Plus.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I request everyone to just find them and bring them back to us alive or dead. We will accept it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: We take you live in New Delhi with a look at the deadly landslides and heavy rain across northern India.
 
And a group of surfers missing for a day and a half and lucky to be alive. We'll look at how they survived and were eventually rescued.
 
So we begin with a gruesome discovery in Sudan as the civil war between the Sudanese army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces or RSF rages on. 30 mass graves with the remains of more than 1000 people have been discovered in West Darfur. That's according to local officials there. In a CNN exclusive, CNN Nima Elbagir pieced together video from a massacre in West Darfur in June.
 
That in fact, was one of the bloodiest in the region's history. And it ended with bodies littering the streets and eventually being buried in the mass graves. And now we want to warn you some of the images you're about to see our graphic and the report includes distressing descriptions of a conflict.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): The streets of El Geneina in Sudan's Darfur region are eerily quiet. Filmed at great risk by survivors. The video shows racist graffiti defacing walls and corpses littering the streets. Seen here in their own propaganda, Sudan's paramilitary rapid support forces, RSF occupied Geneina in June.
 
After a heavy shelling campaign and fighting in their war for dominance over Sudan's army. A CNN investigation has now uncovered some of the cost of the RSF victory here in Geneina. Survivors, aid workers and body collectors described to CNN how together with their allies, the RSF gunned down hundreds of civilians in and around Geneina on June 15th. In one of the most violent massacres to date in the recent history of this genocide-scarred Sudanese region.
 
Using satellite images, eyewitness testimony and geolocating what few videos have made it through the telecommunications blackout, cutting that four off from the world.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I lost eight members of my family that day during the escape from El Geneina to Chad.
 
ELBAGIR: This man says he buried hundreds of victims in that force since April. But on that day, he couldn't even reach his slain relatives. The RSFS troops are drawn from that Darfury arab  tribes and together with its leader Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo AKA Demedti are implicated in the years long genocide in the region against African tribal groupings. It's unsurprising then that the war between the RSF and Sudan's military for control of the country took an even more sinister turn here in Darfur.
 
Marrying the RSF's previous tactics, forcing civilians to flee many arriving in Geneina. That is until June 14 when the West Darfur governor seen here at his arrest by the RSF was executed. The RSF blamed for the killing denies responsibility. As hundreds attempted to flee, they were harassed and threatened. Even children joined in. A lucky few made it to Chad.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): They were going into houses killing people. Snipers were everywhere.
 
ELBAGIR: Bringing with them stories of ethnic targeting.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): On the road out of the city, we were stopped and searched. They took our phones. Men were separated from the women so they could kill us. We ran but they shot some of us.
 
ELBAGIR: Evidence show as much of the killing occurred here outside the main hospital in Geneina.
 <br>[02:05:04]
 
Then fleeing civilians were ambushed again in Wadi Kaja. Satellite images show the river which is usually shallow enough for cars to cross had water running high that day. Scores struggled in the water. Some shot as they drowned. Survivors say they had gunfire from all directions.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I saw 17 kids who were shot dead and thrown into the water. This was one of the most surreal scenes I've witnessed.
 
ELBAGIR: Even as they fled Geneina for Adre across the border in Chad, our evidence shows men, women and children were shot as they fled. At the MSF Hospital in Chad, survivors arrived with gunshot wounds in the back, legs and buttocks. The lead doctor told CNN. All injuries consistent with being shot from the back. Over 850 people flooded the hospitals in Adre between June 15th to 17th according to MSF.
 
More than any other period since fighting began in April. Body collectors say according to their count, around 1000 people were killed on the day of June 15th. Buried in dozens of mass graves. Survivors say the RSF is replicating these same tactics across the region. Even as they're supposed to celebrate in the aftermath of mass killings, and the sweep of escalating ethnically targeted attacks.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ELBAGIR: A spokesperson for the rapid support forces told CNN that they categorically deny the assertions that we put forward in our reporting, without though denying any of the specifics that we shared with them. It's also important to note that the RSF had previously denied the findings of an investigation where we uncovered evidence that RSF troops had engaged in rapes before subsequently the leader of the RSF stating that those who had been implicated in violations were to be prosecuted.
 
Nima Elbagir, CNN, London.
 
NEWTON: And a reminder of what's at stake here. The U.N. warns that people in Sudan are in fact running out of food and dying due to the lack of health care after four months of war. More than a million have fled the violence since April crossing into neighboring countries. And that's according to the U.N.'s Migration Agency. And the World Health Organization echoes these dire warnings. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARGARET HARRIS, WHO SPOKESPERSON: About 67 percent of hospitals in the affected areas are out of service. In these past four months, we've -- since the conflict began, WHO has verified 53 attacks on health care which have killed 11 people, injured 38 and along with other disruptions, these attacks have denied access to care for tens of thousands of people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Now for more information on how you can help Sudanese refugees, go to cnn.com/impact.
 
Defense chiefs from the West African bloc ECOWAS are set together in Ghana in the coming hours to discuss the coup in Niger. Now, the meeting will be similar to the extraordinary Summit held in Nigeria's Capital one week ago. ECOWAS placed sanctions on Niger in the wake of the military takeover late last month. And has threatened military action to restore democracy. Now ahead of Thursday's meeting, the bloc issued a statement condemning an ambush attack in a western region of Niger by suspected jihadist. At least 17 soldiers were killed in the tri-border area.
 
A new round of Russian drone strikes in the past 24 hours hit grain facilities in Ukraine critical for the global food supply.
 
Drone attacks you see there destroyed warehouses, granaries and other agricultural machinery in the port city of Reni along the Danube River. Small ports on the Danube like this one had become vital for Ukraine to export grain ever since Russia pulled out of the Black Sea Grain Deal last month.
 
Meantime, a Hong Kong flag cargo ship carrying food products depart in the port of Odesa on Wednesday becoming the first container ship to leave the Black Sea in a month. The ship transited through a temporary corridor opened up to evacuate vessels that were already in Ukrainian ports at the time of Russia's full-scale invasion.
 
CNN's Nada Bashir joins us now from London. And you've been following overnight developments. I do want to get to those continuing attacks on those vital ports and the agricultural sector. They're menacing but Ukraine also argues that it's not just a point in the war here that this is actually hurting much of the world vulnerable.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER: Yes, absolutely. The effects of Russia's attacks on Ukraine Southern Black Sea ports and now these attacks that we're seeing across Ukraine's Danube ports are going to have far reaching effects.
 <br>[02:10:06]
 
This has been reiterated multiple times now not only by the Ukrainian authorities but also by the U.N., which relies heavily of course on Ukraine's grain exports for its operations, relief operations across the globe for those most dependent on Ukraine's green exports. Particularly via those World Food Program operations. And we heard that last year on the brokering of the deal. This was a huge feat brokering that Black Sea Grain Deal.
 
But it's been just over a month now since the deal faltered since Russia pulled out of that deal. And since then, we have seen the security situation around Ukraine's southern Black Sea ports deteriorating even further. And this marks the seventh round of attacks that we have seen over the last month against the port of Odesa. We're seeing Russia using Iranian-made Shahed drones repeatedly against these ports.
 
You mentioned the extent of the devastation that we saw yesterday. Granaries on fire warehouses on fire. Ukraine has been clear these are targeted attacks, aiming to disrupt and damage those warehouses to disrupt and damage Ukraine's ability to export agricultural goods. And we heard from President Zelenskyy speaking yesterday. Reiterating how far reaching the impact of these attacks will be.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) VOLODYMR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): Russian strike is a blow to world food prices, a blow to social and political stability in Africa and in Asia. Basic things that provide a normal life to every society, it is food on the table in households. No other terrorist of the world, apart from Russia has ever so openly, unintentionally targeted the security of so many nations at once.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR: Once again, we have seen Russia deploying and using those Iranian-made Shahed drones against Ukraine Southern Black Sea ports. We're also now learning new intelligence from the U.K. Ministry of Defense that Russia has actually begun deploying its own manufactured drones based off that Iranian model. And the concern now is that this will lead to Russia becoming self-sufficient on this front.
 
NEWTON: Yes, Nada. A lot to think about there, given how drones have been employed throughout this conflict. I want to turn now to an announcement from the E.U. that funding that it had -- in fact, had been earmarked for Russia and Belarus will now be going to Ukraine. I mean, some may say this is symbolic. But even though it might be symbolic, it's a potent message, right?
 
BASHIR: Yes, absolutely. This was earmarked for Belarus and Russia. Now we'll be heading to Ukraine and Moldova. Clearly, of course, as a result of the war, the European Commission announcing this yesterday. Of course, this is another package of funding. We have seen the E.U. throughout the war in Ukraine pushing funding towards Ukraine, particularly in the form of military aid and relief aid as well.
 
But this funding will be somewhat different. It will focus on other projects and activities within Ukraine and Moldova, particularly, on some areas, including developing cross border. Transport links between E.U. territories and both nations developing the healthcare systems within both countries and education, infrastructure there as well. So, this will really focus on that internal development.
 
But the hope is that this will also strengthen relations, cooperation between the European Union and both Ukraine and Moldova which will come as you mentioned, a symbolic sign, of course to Russia about those deepening relations between the E.U. and Ukraine.
 
NEWTON: Yes. And certainly, shot in the arm to Ukraine's efforts to become a larger part of the E.U. Nada Bashir for us in London. Thanks for keeping us up to date on those developments. Appreciate it.
 
Now, an American citizen held in a remote prison camp in Russia getting words of encouragement from the U.S. Secretary of State. Paul Whelan and Antony Blinken spoke over the phone Wednesday. CNN's Kylie Atwood has more about their conversation.
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Paul Whalen spoke by phone today with the Secretary of State Antony Blinken from a Russian prison. And according to a source familiar with the call, the Secretary's message to Paul Whelan was to keep the faith and that the U.S. government is doing everything in their power to try and bring Paul Whelan who has been wrongfully detained in Russia for more than four years home as quickly as possible. 
 
Now, we're told that this is the second time that they have had a conversation. The first time was late last year but we don't know the logistics that went into standing up this call. You can imagine it would be quite complicated to get Paul Whelan on the phone with the Secretary of State even though he's able to make phone calls from the prison where he is, getting him on the phone with America's top diplomat is hugely significant.
 
Now David Whelan who's Paul Whelan's brother describe the conversation to CNN as a long conversation or frank conversation. He also said it sent a signal to Russia that the U.S. is still working, of course to secure Paul Whelan's release. And we should note that the U.S. has put an offer on the table to secure Whelan's release.
 <br>[02:15:00]
 
That offer to Russia was sent earlier this year, more than eight months ago according to a senior administration official that is still a live offer. But the Russians have not substantively engaged as the U.S. continues to try and get Paul Whelan and Evan Gershkovich who's another American wrongfully detained in Russia, back to the United States.
 
Kylie Atwood, CNN, the State Department.
 
NEWTON: Now, Russia's ambassador to the U.S. later released a statement calling on everyone who was not involved in the issue to stay out of it. He wrote, "We urge American politicians in the media to give the competent authorities of the two countries the opportunity to work calmly. Stop playing with people's fates and leave the search for the necessary resolutions to professionals.
 
We could soon know when the criminal case against Donald Trump and 18 codefendants will begin in Georgia. The district attorney who charge Trump with attempts to overturn the state's 2020 election results has asked a judge for a trial date of March 4th of next year. Now that's the day before so called Super Tuesday, a critical date in the U.S. primary season. Now one of Trumps codefendants is his former Chief of Staff Mark Meadows who's now secured a hearing date and a federal -- with a federal judge in less than two weeks.
 
Now, he wants his case moved to federal court, arguing he should have federal immunity from the state charges as a former U.S. government employee.
 
Meantime, a woman in Texas has been arrested and charged with threatening the judge presiding over Trump's federal election interference case. Authority say the woman left the voicemail threatening to kill the judge seen in this picture here if Trump isn't elected next year. 
 
A rare Summit is taking place this Friday at Camp David. Coming up but what President Biden hopes to accomplish when he sits down with the leaders of South Korea and Japan.
 
Plus, we'll have the latest on the American soldier detained in North Korea with a live report.
 
Also, ahead. The death toll still rising after heavy rain led to deadly landslides in India causing roads to cave in and buildings to collapse. We'll have a report from New Dehli.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: U.S. President Joe Biden will head to the presidential retreat at Camp David Friday. There he'll host a trilateral summit with the leaders of Japan and South Korea. Now, the last time a foreign leader was invited to Camp David was 2015 under then President Obama. Both allies are vital to the U.S. strategy and interests in the Indo- Pacific. Yet South Korea and Japan, as you can imagine had a long and difficult history with each other and don't always see eye to eye.
 
A senior White House official explained what the summit aims to accomplish.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:20:02]
 
KURT CAMPBELL, WHITE HOUSE INDO-PACIFIC COORDINATOR: I will just say that what you will see on Friday is a very ambitious set of initiatives that seek to lock in trilateral engagement, both now and into the future. And you will see it across many sectors in the security realm in technology and education. I think all three leaders will embrace the potential for what is possible among our three countries.
 
And I will just simply say that, although there have been challenges in the past, we are more comfortable and confident now that the ballast in our ship will take us through what will inevitably be moments of difficulty in the future.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: So earlier, I spoke about Friday summit with Andrew Yeo of the Brookings Institution Center for East Asia Policy Studies. And I asked him what needs to happen to improve relations between South Korea and Japan. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDREW YEO, SENIOR FELLOW AND SOUTH KOREA-KOREA FOUNDATION CHAIR, BROOKINGS INSTITUTION: The historical issues are in place due to Japan's a colonial past colonizing Korea, and those Americans are not going to go away overnight. But I think where the two leaders, Prime Minister Kishida and President Yoon want to move this relationship is -- they want to change the narrative.
 
They want to -- they want each other's countries to see the other as being on the same side that they share the same vision. They're both liberal democracies, and we're already seeing that shift, particularly on the South Korea side in the way they described Japan. So, I think it's a -- it's a long, slow process. But in the meantime, there's a lot of areas for functional cooperation.
 
There's a need to collaborate on securing supply chains, economic security resilience, these are all important for both countries. And also on the security front, they both have common threats coming from North Korea. So, there are a lot of issues that are pushing them together. There are -- there is some work that needs to take place. But I do think that we are seeing the narrative began to shift slightly when it comes specifically to the Korea-Japan leg of this trilateral relationship.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: And you can watch my full interview with Andrew Yeo coming up next hour. Now this summit comes on the heels of North Korea admitting it has a U.S. soldier in custody. Travis King ran into North Korean territory last month. And it's not clear if he wants to leave. CNN's Paula Hancocks is live in South Korea for us in Seoul. Paula, you've been following this story very closely. What more are we hearing now from the United States about all of this?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Paula, the latest referred from the State Department is that they are pursuing all channels to try and get more information on Travis King. At this point, they do not know his whereabouts. They do not know his condition. What we heard from North Korea was simply what they claim is the reason for his decision to run across the border into its territory.
 
But we must caution that this is coming from North Korea. We've also heard from U.S. officials, that they can't necessarily take too much credence from this given that this is likely being used as a propaganda coup, but this is the reason Pyongyang gifts for Travis King crossing the MDL into their territory.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANCOCKS (voiceover): North Korea claims racism in the U.S. military was the reason us private Travis King crossed into its territory, adding he was seeking refuge in North Korea or a third country. One month ago, King ran across the military demarcation line during the civilian tour of the demilitarized zone. Nothing had been heard from him since. Pyongyang finally breaking its silence on the incident. Claims King confessed that he "harbored ill feeling against inhuman maltreatment and racial discrimination within the U.S. Army."
 
A U.S. defense officials said they could not verify King's alleged comments and the focus remains on bringing him home safely. King ran across the border at the Joint Security Area, a heavily guarded area U.S. and South Korean soldiers were unable to stop him. Pyongyang claims King is "disillusion to the unequal American society. There are no direct statements from King or details of his whereabouts or condition."
 
King had faced assault charges in South Korea serving around 50 days in a detention facility. The army says he would have faced further charges if he had returned to the U.S. as planned. The day before he crossed into North Korea, King was taken to Incheon airport by a military escort, but did not board the plane claiming lost passport to airport officials who escorted him back to departures.
 
CLAUDINE GATES, TRAVIS KING'S MOTHER: Get my son home.
 
HANCOCKS (voiceover): King's mother for a family spokesperson is asking Pyongyang to treat her son "humanely asking for a phone call with him. Contact Pyongyang has not aligned with previous U.S. detainees."
 
King's family has told CNN they feel helpless.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All right. Let me go get him because I'm his big sister at this point.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Let me go get him because I'm his uncle.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:25:08]
 
HANCOCKS: And you always have to look at the timing of any North Korean announcement. It is very rarely coincidental. In the coming hours, we know that the U.S. and others have called for a U.N. Security Council meeting talking about North Korea's human rights abuses. So just one day before, that is when the Pyongyang chose to announce that they do have Travis King and pointing towards the fact that they claim he wanted to escape U.S. racism.
 
North Korea consistently in the past when accused of human rights abuses has always told the U.S. to look inwardly before they start criticizing other countries records. Paula?
 
NEWTON: Yes. And such a difficult time for the family again, trying to understand exactly where he is and if he is safe. Paula Hancocks for us in Seoul. Really appreciate it.
 
Now, Pakistan's caretaker prime minister is condemning violence in Punjab province after a crowd set fire to eight churches there. That violence and vandalism following accusations of blasphemy against Islam. Several homes are also targeted. According to a police report, two Christian men were charged on the grounds of desecrating the Koran and abusing the Prophet Muhammad.
 
Pakistan's minority Christian communities are regularly targeted with the country's strict blasphemy laws.
 
The death toll keeps ticking up in Maui as recovery crews scour the debris from a devastating wildfire.
 
Plus, a miraculous rescue at sea. You will want to see these two Indonesian boat crew members and four Australian surfers saved after 38 hours in open water. We'll tell you their harrowing story next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: Rescuers are still digging through the debris after deadly landslides in Northern India. At least 71 people are dead and 13 missing after torrential rain led to flash floods and landslides in the region. CNN's Vedika Sud is following the developments for us from New Delhi. Just having looked at the impact on communities there has been profound. What more do we know though about aid getting to that region and any respite in the weather?
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: Well, it has been getting to that region. These are separate places locations within the state of Himachal Pradesh in north India, Paula, that we're talking about.
 <br>[02:30:09]
 
Now according to the chief minister of the state, more than 300 deaths have taken place since the beginning of the monsoon season which is from the third week of June. 
 
And almost a fourth of that death toll has been reported in the last few days in the state of Himachal Pradesh. Shimla, which is the capital of the state that has been impacted severely. There have been landslides, and mudslides triggered by torrential rains in the region. As you said more than 70 deaths have taken place, over a dozen people are still missing, so that death toll could unfortunately be going up. 
 
2500 people have been displaced. Talking about the rescues, well they're still digging through the rubble and they're trying to find those who are still missing after the mudslides that led to the collapse of many homes and people who reportedly were inside those homes. Relatives have been desperately seeking help and here's what one of them had to say while waiting for news on her loved ones.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUNITA SHARMA, FAMILY MEMBERS MISSING IN LANDSLIDE (through translator): Three members of my family are missing. I'm asking that anyone just find them. In any way possible. and bring them back to us. Alive or dead, we will accept it. Just hand them over to us. We have been waiting for the last three days.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD: Two places in the Himalayan region in India, Uttarakhand State and Himachal Pradesh, have been severely impacted by the climate crisis and experts have repeatedly been warning of this fallout and we're seeing exactly that happen in Himachal Pradesh. There's so much construction work. These two are tourist states. 
 
A lot of tourists go to these two areas during the monsoons and the summers. And there are a lot of infrastructural changes and drilling that continues to happen in these hilly areas because of which there is a collapse of stones and rocks and hills. And that has led to these landslides perhaps because of the soil getting more soft and vulnerable. And that's the reason perhaps behind these landslides that we are continuously seeing in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. 
 
Rivers in both states are still in spate, like I said the death toll could be going up. The chief minister himself, tweeting to say, and I quote him here, "We have received wounds that will never be forgotten." Like I mentioned, right at the top of this conversation more than 300 people have died due to monsoon related incidents since June this year in just one state, Himachal Pradesh, in India. Back to you.
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN NEWSROOM ANCHOR: Just the images of what we're seeing there is just incredible. Vedika Sud, thanks for your report. Appreciate it. 101 people are now confirmed dead in Maui, and the Hawaii governor said more than 1000 others may still be missing. 
 
Recoveries teams have combed through nearly 40 percent of the disaster zone as experts try to identify the victims. Meanwhile, there are growing questions about what caused the fire. And why the sirens failed, CNN's Gloria Pazmino has more now from Maui.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The scope of the devastation here stands a stark contrast to Maui's stunning beauty.
 
FRANK TAYLOR, NEVADA TASK FORCE 1, SEARCH AND RESCUE IN HAWAII: It looks like it started up there and then ended down there.
 
PAZMINO (voice-over): Frank Taylor with FEMA Search and Rescue Team found Lahaina reduced to ashes. And now a graveyard for everything and everyone caught in the wild fires path.
 
TAYLOR: There is nothing. Cremation, basically. This is the absolute worst disaster I've ever seen.
 
PAZMINO (voice-over): More than 100 dead. Now search teams face their grizzly  task of finding many more in the days to come. Using dogs trained to locate cadavers in this restricted zone.
 
TAYLOR: They are absolutely essential to this and they are trained just for human remains. We can walk through and do visual searches. But you send a dog in there, and they'll find them. I'm very confident that we'll find everybody. 
 
PAZMINO (voice-over): Main roads are just starting to open here. FEMA is providing disaster relief, and families hoping to lay the victims to rest are fighting exhaustion amid their grief.
 
MICHAEL RICHTER, LOST STEPFATHER IN FIRE: I just want to identify the body. The police have really helped, but I have run into a lot of people that I understand are tired. I'm tired too, I haven't slept in six days.
 
PAZMINO (voice-over): For some survivors, not knowing how the deadly fire started and how it was able to cause so much destruction so quickly adds to their suffering. A siren warning system that never sounded despite being tested just days before the fires raged.
 
UNKNOWN: The cell phones were immobilized, the power lines were down and we had no service. But the sirens, some were broken, and we're investigating that. PAZMINO (over-over): And some locals point to down power lines and loss of water pressure as the flames ravaged the landscape. Fueled by months-long drought, extreme winds, and flammable grasses. One local Hawaii reporter says he finds solace in the close knit community of Lahaina after losing at least four members of his extended family.
 <br>[02:35:13]
 
JONATHAN MASAKI SHIROMA, TRAFFIC ANCHOR, HAWAII NEWS NOW: The people of Hawaii have always been rooted in the spirit of ohana which is family. And I know how painstaking this is. I know the hurt. And I know the deep void that we all feel.
 
PAZMINO (voice-over): Gloria Pazmino, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Now if you would like information on how to help those impacted by the Hawaii wildfires, please go to cnn.com/impact. 
 
In Canada, meantime, residents of one of the nation's largest northern cities are under evacuation orders as wildfires close in. 20,000 people in Yellowknife, alone, have been told to get out by noon on Friday and more than 200 fires are burning across Canada's northwest territories. 
 
Officials there have declared a state of emergency. Meantime, this surreal image is from Fort McMurray, ravaged by another wildfire in 2016, where the flames, this week, turned the sky red. You can imagine the alarm in that city. Officials say that they are trying to deploy more resources to the region, and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Canada's military has been called in to help. 
 
Wildfires, in the meantime, also raging on the Spanish island of Tenerife, spreading to 1800 hectares in 24 hours. The flames are hitting a forested area of steep ravines, making it harder for firefighters to battle them. 14 aircrafts and the Water Bomber seaplane have been deployed and authorities have ordered the evacuation of five villages in the nearby area.
 
Okay, still to come for us. Scientists name a new species of sneak after a famous Hollywood actor. And, yes, how their expedition went from groundbreaking to dangerous when we return.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: Four Australian surfers and two Indonesian boat crew members say they are obviously thrilled and grateful to be alive after spending nearly two days lost at sea. Their vessel sank off the coast of Western Indonesia after being hit by a storm, stranding them in open waters, and despite being rescued, their joy is incomplete. Ivan Watson explains.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The moment of relief, after two nights lost at sea. Searchers spot the group of surfers, and the crew of their boat, missing for over 38 hours in the waters off of Indonesia's west coast. But the joy is short-lived.
 
UNKNOWN: Where's Elliott?
 
WATSON (voice-over): Two members of the group are not there. Australians Steph Weisse, Will Teagle and Jordan Short are safe but they say fellow surfer Elliott Foote paddled away from the group to try to find help. And just two of the three members of the Indonesian boat crew have been found. We drifted away very far, explains Mohammed Iqbal from the safety of the rescue boat.
 <br>[02:40:10]
 
It felt like we were just circling around the area and it was totally dark. At home in Sydney, Australia, Elliott's father anxiously waits. Then, a text message comes through. Elliott is alive.
 
UNKNOWN: We've got everyone.
 
WATSON (voice-over): The final member of the group of four Australians. Pulled from the water by two local fishermen, according to a spokesperson for the families. Reunited on dry land, the group of friends say they need time to recover from their ordeal.
 
ELLIOT FOOTE, RESCUED SURFER: There were some moments out there where we were all quite nervous and didn't quite know what the outcome was going to be but we just banded together and I couldn't be happier having these three with me.
 
WATSON (voice-over): Indonesian rescue teams had led the search for the group of seven since Sunday night. The surfers' boat went down in rough weather while they were out chasing waves at a remote destination off of Indonesia's Aceh. A private plane was pulled in to help, as were fishing vessels, and local tourist charters used their knowledge of the currents to plot a search area. But success is not complete.
 
FOOTE: Now our thoughts are with the Indonesian families and friends of the missing one who is still out there and it's hard to think about. We just hope for the best for him. 
 
WATSON (voice-over): Searchers say the capsized boat was found Wednesday morning, with no sign of the missing man. Ivan Watson, CNN.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Actor Harrison Ford is going to history books but not for the reason you might be expecting. Researchers have named the new species of snake after the man who portrayed a character famous for hating them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRISON FORD, AS INDIANA JONES: Snakes, why did it have to be snakes?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: In a nod to Ford's turn as Indiana Jones, his name is included in the reptile's official species name. Researchers found the yellow and brown serpent, you see it there, during a trip to one of Peru's national parks in an area deemed unsafe for travelers by the U.S. state department. Ford calls the discovery humbling, adding that it's a reminder that there is still so much to learn about our wild world and that humans are one small part of an impossibly vast biosphere. Well put there from Indiana Jones. I'm Paula Newton in New york. WORLD SPORT is next. I'll be back in 15 minutes with more NEWSROOM.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:23]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[03:00:00]