Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Ukraine Asks for More Tanks at Ramstein Meeting; U.S. and Germany at Odds Over Sending Tanks to Ukraine; Crypto Troubles Sink Genesis Lending; Ukraine Reports Heavy Shelling in and Around Bakhmut; Peruvian Police Brace for More Protests; London Police Face Growing Scrutiny over Criminal Probes. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired January 20, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:29]
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: A critical moment in the war in Ukraine. The U.S. and Germany have refused to send modern tanks so far. Are 
 
 things about to change after the Ramstein meeting? 
 
When will it end? Caribbean police are preparing for another day of violent protests. We have a live report. 
 
And another one bites the dust. Cryptocurrency broke Genesis, calls it quits. Another victim of the FTX collapse. 
 
I'm Eleni Giokos. Hello, and welcome. This is CONNECT THE WORLD. We're live in Dubai. 
 
Now in just one hour, U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin will talk to reporters in Germany where some 50 nations have been meeting to address 
 
 Ukraine's military needs and reinforce their support. 
 
The conference coming as the U.S. announced a new $2.5 billion aid package for Ukraine that includes combat and fighting vehicles. But notably not the 
 
 heavy tanks Ukraine's president says are desperately needed to defeat Russia on the battlefield. Germany's Defense minister saying today no 
 
 decision has been made on sending German heavy tanks to Ukraine. 
 
Volodymyr Zelenskyy talked about that as he addressed the conference via video link while expressing thanks for the help Ukraine is getting. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: The war started by Russia has not allowed for this. And I can thank you hundreds of times, and it will be 
 
 absolutely just in fear, given all that we have already done. But, but hundreds of thank you are not hundreds of tanks. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: Well, the Kremlin commented on the conference today saying the West would regret its, quote, "delusion" that more tanks and weapons would lead 
 
 Ukraine to victory. Meantime, CNN has learned CIA director Bill Burns made a secret trip to Kyiv to brief President Zelenskyy and top Ukrainian intel 
 
 officials on Russia's upcoming battlefield plans. 
 
So there is a lot to cover here. We have CNN chief international correspondent Clarissa Ward in the Ukrainian capital for us, and Oren 
 
 Liebermann is at the Pentagon. 
 
Clarissa, I want to start with you. Look, we're seeing big numbers in terms of aid, but Zelenskyy keeps on reiterating that the urgency in getting the 
 
 equipment isn't there. What does a delay on tanks mean for the fight against Russia. I mean, this is a big sticking point, as we wait for that 
 
 press conference and some detail on whether Germany is going to budge. 
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: I think, Eleni, if you talk to Ukrainian officials, there is a real concern that the momentum 
 
 needs to be on their side. And they need to act quickly and decisively, and to launch offensives before Russia has a chance to regroup, and launch its 
 
 own kind of offensive. In order to do that, when you look at the state of play at the moment, particularly in Donbas, where it's sort of a grinding 
 
 close to stalemate they need, in their own words, long-range artillery, F- 16s and tanks in order to be able to push through those defensive lines and start to take back more territory. 
 
So for them I think the feeling is that this is really a decisive moment, and I think there is more broadly a sense of frustration with this sort of 
 
 drip, drip approach to supplying the Ukrainians with weapons because when they asked for something in the first, there's usually a lot of 
 
 handwringing, should we, shouldn't we. Does it risk escalation. And then ultimately after some kind of back and forth, they usually do end up 
 
 getting those weapons, but not in the numbers that they need them, and slowly and incrementally they get more of them. 
 
And so what you're hearing again and again from Ukrainian officials is, like, let's just cut to the chase, and get those weapons, and get them 
 
 moving faster. You know at the end of the day, you're going to arrive at the same conclusion. So certainly a lot of pressure on Germany particularly 
 
 today to supply those tanks or at least to allow third countries, 13 European countries also have these Leopard 2 tanks in their inventory. So a 
 
 lot of pressure now on Germany to say decisively, once and for all, whether they will allow those he tanks to be supplied to the Ukrainians. 
 
GIOKOS: Clarissa, brilliant points there. And as you say this drip, drip approach, frankly, as we've been covering this war when we speak to people 
 
 in Ukraine, this has been one of the main points of contention. 
 <br>[10:05:11]
 
Zelenskyy has said that time is on Russia side, you know, time is being used as a weapon by Russia. Is there a sense of this tranche of weapons, 
 
 these military aids, these tanks could tip the scale on where this war could be headed? It feels different this time. 
 
WARD: Well, I think first of all you have to understand, obviously, for the Ukrainians, they are always going to be pushing for a maximus position. 
 
 They want as many weapons as possible, they want them as soon as possible. And so they're always going to try to create a sense of heightened urgency 
 
 around their request. At the same time, when we look at where the war is at, it does feel that there is a sort of inflection point. 
 
You had a series of major counter offenses that the Ukrainians were able to pull off last year. The Russians have been in sort of a state of disarray. 
 
 And what you're hearing not just from the Ukrainians, but also from the Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin is now is the moment not to allow the 
 
 Russians to have that time to regroup, to build up their ammunition, to build up their capacity to create or, you know, build up their own military 
 
 industry inside Russia, production inside Russia. Now is the time to keep up the fight, and to keep up with those offensives. 
 
The fear, of course, is that out of these 300,000 Russian troops who were mobilized, 150,000 of them have been going through training. They're about 
 
 to come to the end of that training, and they could be part of the new wave for some kind of a new spring offensive. And so I think that's why you're 
 
 seeing this heightened level of urgency, not just in the rhetoric coming from the Ukrainians, but in many of the Ukraine's allies as well in this. 
 
GIOKOS: Claressa Ward, thank you so much for that insight. Good to see you. 
 
Well, my next guest is a member of Germany's parliaments, the Bundestag, and has been openly critical of the German chancellor's reluctance to 
 
 approve sending Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine. 
 
Roderich Kiesewetter joins me now via Skype from Berlin. 
 
Thank you, sir, for your time. There's a clear standoff that's occurring here between the U.S. and Germany on tanks to Ukraine. You say it makes 
 
 more sense for Germany to send Leopard tanks versus the U.S. Abrams. Why? 
 
RODERICH KIESEWETTER, MEMBER, GERMAN BUNDESTAG: Well, first of all, I believe that this day is a day of celebration in Russia. And this delayed 
 
 operation costs lives, thousands of lives in Ukraine. And Leopards are available in Europe, their logistic is available, and the Americans are 
 
 delivering 150 Stryker and IFV Bradley. This in combination would help to have a combined battle warfare which is needed to support Ukraine. 
 
And Abrams, in addition, are very -- have a lot of logistic support needed, and it's much more costly to deliver the Abrams. It is more helpful to send 
 
 the more light IFVs combined with the heavy German Leopard tanks with the other nations. 
 
So we need this, that Ukraine has a chance to win, and to pull out the Russian troops to free the occupied and devastated areas, and so we are far 
 
 from this, farther than yesterday. 
 
GIOKOS: What is fascinating here is of course Germany has been one of the largest suppliers of military assistance to Ukraine. But it seems that Olaf 
 
 Scholz has been of the view that there needs to be some kind of joint framework and has been vocal about not going at it alone. 
 
Do you think that that's where the hesitation and reluctance comes in where the stance from Germany has been we won't send Leopards if the U.S. doesn't 
 
 send Abrams tanks? 
 
KIESEWETTER: Well, this decision seems to be strange because a lot of European countries, nine or 10, are ready to deliver Leopard tanks. And 
 
 Germany is isolated in its position, only to draw upon the United States. If we want a fair transatlantic bird sharing, we should deliver what is 
 
 available in Europe and the Americans -- the United States are supporting this and are bringing in additional added value. And only to rely on 
 
 American tanks is not exploiting the willingness of our partners and neighbors. 
 
So they feel outlined, and at the end, Germany is isolated because all other countries have started to offer to Ukraine, even if Germany would not 
 
 allow, due to the fact that Germany has not given permission, also not today, to even start to deliver this, no export licenses, then we are in a 
 
 stalemate now. 
 <br>[10:10:03]
 
GIOKOS: Yes, and it's interesting on those export licenses, right? Because that would be the normal way to go about things, and Germany would have to 
 
 give permission to the countries that own the Leopards. But it seems that Finland and Poland have been sort of talking about a different stance. 
 
 Consider sending without German approval, what could this mean for relations with clearly divergent positions on this matter? 
 
KIESEWETTER: Well, this would give to Putin, to Moscow, a signal of divergent European positions. There is no unanimous support for Ukraine any 
 
 longer. And this is really affecting our own standing, our own standing also to third partners like China or to African countries. 
 
The second question is quite true, what will happen then? But I believe this is a minor question. I really encourage Finland and Poland and others 
 
 to really support Ukraine with tanks -- with Leopard tanks. 
 
GIOKOS: I want to talk about what this reluctance also means for Olaf Scholz. I mean, you've said that the new defense minister is facing a 
 
 herculean task. And it's interesting because, you know, this is a question, you know, is this attributed to the fact that you're going to see a lot of 
 
 pressure from the United States, from regional players, and domestically as well, in terms of what that could mean for Olaf Scholz and his party 
 
 members? 
 
KIESEWETTER: Yes. Well, the German population and its majority are supporting Ukraine. The German parliament, with nearly 600 votes, with far 
 
 stronger support also with heavy weapons already since April. So he has the support, our chancellor, not only of the population, but also of our 
 
 parliament. And so we do not understand, even his coalition partners, the Greens and the liberals, do not understand. 
 
We believe there is a kind of Russian romanticism. The belief to negotiate with Putin after the war amidst (INAUDIBLE) or something like for the 
 
 sacrifice of Ukraine, so we are really concerned and we hope that the chancellor will change his position during this weekend. And that also 
 
 during the French-German summit on Sunday, Macron was also trying to work on the attitude of Scholz. It's only Scholz and a small minority in the 
 
 Social Democratic Party, but he is giving the guidelines of politics due to our constitutional law, and nobody could change it with any majority. 
 
HAAKE: Yes. We've got live pictures from Ramstein Airbase right now. We are waiting for a press conference. We remain to be hearing more about what 
 
 leaders have discussed in terms of assistance to Ukraine. We know President Zelenskyy joined them via video link. Thus far, we've had some commentary 
 
 already from the new German Defense minister, and says, there's good reasons why we should send tanks. You know, also bad reasons as well why we 
 
 shouldn't. 
 
I'm just curious, in terms of, if we don't have a clear answer right now on tanks, what this first means for German relations with the U.S., what this 
 
 means for the United States in terms of pressurizing Germany, which of course has really important position in Europe and as you allude to, could 
 
 also tip the scales in terms of what is happening in Ukraine. So it seems like a lot is at stake, and I wonder what you are expecting from this 
 
 conference. 
 
KIESEWETTER: Yes. Well, you posed the right question because Germany has increased pressure on the United States only to deliver Leopards if the 
 
 United States were able to deliver Abrams. So this is a kind of taking Biden hostage, and this is not very helpful for the standing of the 
 
 transatlantic guardian sharing. And Germany is demanding, is claiming an own kind of leadership to lead the European Union, to lead the European 
 
 NATO partners. 
 
But this is more or less a kind of hesitance instead of leadership. Leadership would mean to coordinate, to improve, to innovate, to bring 
 
 ideas, and not to stop the support of Ukraine. If they have had gained already the tanks in September the tanks against the Russian troops would 
 
 have been much more successful. So we have degraded the Ukrainian position this way, and the transatlantic relationship this might shift the U.S. 
 
 interest to United Kingdom, to Poland, and to France, and the Baltic States, and Germany seems to be a little bit singled out. 
 
And I am in the opposition, but we want -- I'm a friend of the transatlantic friendship for decades. We need to better cooperate. And we 
 
 have also certain form of pressure to our chancellor. 
 <br>[10:15:05]
 
We need to convince him. It's only a small group. And I am so grateful for the U.S. endeavor, also from the senators in Congress and the people. Thank 
 
 you so much. And please keep on. 
 
GIOKOS: Roderich Kiesewetter, thank you very much for your time. We appreciate it. 
 
KIESEWETTER: Thank you, Eleni. 
 
GIOKOS: Widespread anger in Peru spreads to the capital in a major way. Still ahead, a massive march in Lima and the violence that followed. 
 
And a troubled crypto lender falls victim to the fallout unleashed by the collapse of FTX. How that and other crypto meltdowns are reshaping the 
 
 digital currency industry. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Peru faces another day of uncertainty after a sharp escalation in the nationwide protest it's seen over the past several weeks. 
 
At least one person was killed and at least 30 were injured in the latest violent clashes between protesters and police. Thousands of demonstrators, 
 
 many of them indigenous Peruvians converged on the capital Lima from outlying areas Thursday. Venting numerous longstanding grievances. In the 
 
 clashes, historic building caught fire in the center of the city. 
 
Journalist Stefano Pozzebon is watching all of this from nearby Colombia. 
 
Stefano, Peru's president told the protesters last night that she wants to talk and they're demanding she stepped down and wants a new government 
 
 entirely. Any sense of whether this will deescalate or get any worse than what it's already been over the past few weeks? 
 
OK. We do not have Stefano's audio. We are going to try and get him back. 
 
Stefano, I think you might be back with us. If you are there, is there any sense of whether there is hope -- OK, we don't have him back up 
 
 unfortunately. We'll be moving on. We do have another story standing by for you. 
 
Crypto contagion appears to be claiming another casualty. The lending unit of crypto firm Genesis has filed for U.S. bankruptcy protection from 
 
 creditors toppled by a market route along with the likes of Sam Bankman- Fried's FTX. Genesis Global Capital was one of the biggest lenders to FTX on Thursday and a filing in Manhattan federal court it said it had both 
 
 assets and liabilities in the range of $1 billion to $10 billion. 
 <br>[10:20:08]
 
CNN's Anna Stewart joins me now to take us through this latest crypto collapse. 
 
I mean, to be honest, Genesis has been on the lips of many people since the downfall of FTX because it was always about contagion. Yes, I mean, to be 
 
 honest, we've been speaking to so many experts in the field. It was a big worry. And it is, its exposure to a company like FTX that has caused 
 
 weaknesses in anyone that had exposure. 
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it's one of the many domino pieces to fall, Eleni. But you're right, and I was thinking this morning, you know, 
 
 how am I going to cover this? I thought, well, where did the problems begin? How long have I got? It's live television, about 90 seconds. We'll 
 
 try and get there, but this is one of the big lending platforms as you said. And two of the biggest companies that it borrowed to. Well, one, 
 
 Alameda Research which had the links with FTX, but also, what was it called? Three Arrows. That was their other major one. 
 
And that one went bankrupt even before Alameda Research and FTX imploded. So actually this firm was already in trouble long before that. So when I 
 
 think in November they decided to stop customers withdrawing their money, that was the writing on the wall at that stage. And there are so many other 
 
 elements to the story which we could get into. I mean, there's the issue with Gemini, another crypto firm that was the one founded by the Winklevoss 
 
 twins. 
 
Now they are in a huge dispute about a shared crypto product called Earn, and whether or not Genesis owes investors of Earn some $900 million. Both 
 
 those companies also charge by the SEC and just over a week ago in fact were illegally selling securities to investors. 
 
It is hard to know where to begin with a story like this. But we say it a lot and we'll say it again, as ever, this is a lending platform. It's not 
 
 like traditional finance, it is not regulated, it does not need a capital cushion. And its customers are equally often not regulated, often don't 
 
 have good corporate governance, so stories like this really aren't a big surprise. 
 
GIOKOS: Yes, I mean, actually it was beginning of December, you and I were talking about this, and we were talking about, you know, contagion and who 
 
 would be next to fall. And we're watching these closely, and Genesis, of course, came up which was interesting. 
 
Look, the other big issue is just the price of crypto and whether this has caused major, you know, risk aversion. And people wanting to get out of 
 
 their positions. Something interesting is happening. Could you explain why we're seeing a shift in pricing here? 
 
STEWART: Add into that all the volatility around crypto, you're right. I mean, that exacerbates all of these fundamental issues with unregulated 
 
 businesses, and particularly when you're looking at centralized platforms as opposed to decentralized platforms. 
 
With crypto, we did see very much the crypto winter of last year. I thought it would continue for longer given that many of the issues and fallouts of 
 
 the disasters of last year continue into this, but, listen, it looks like crypto winter is perhaps soaring. Bitcoin up 25 percent over the last 
 
 month. Ethereum, the lead sort of alternative cryptocurrency as opposed to Bitcoin, is up more than 30 percent. Many people will roll their eyes and 
 
 say, yes, until when? Until the next bankruptcy? Until the next bust? Until the next scam? 
 
Listen, whether you love crypto, whether you hate crypto, whether you want to learn a little bit more about it, I do encourage you to tune into the 
 
 next episode of "DECODED." I know you know all about it, Eleni, but it will be broadcasting next weekend. We have the decoded cryptocurrency to the 
 
 best of our abilities. And my goodness, that was challenging, but was super fun. 
 
GIOKOS: Well, we love having you in Dubai every month as you shoot the show. 
 
STEWART: I'll be back. 
 
GIOKOS: And as we say, with crypto -- you know, it's always great to have you. Look, and as we say, so many people have life savings and exposure to 
 
 crypto, so it's definitely an interesting one to keep watching. 
 
Anna Stewart, thank you so much. 
 
Well, Google has become the latest tech giant to announced major layoffs. Google's parent company Alphabet says it will eliminate 12,000 jobs. That's 
 
 about 6 percent of its workforce. After years of expansion, the entire big tech world seems to be shrinking. Microsoft announced it would shed 10,000 
 
 jobs earlier this week and both Amazon and Facebook's parent Meta have also recently announced major staff cuts. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden is defending his administration's handling of the discovery and disclosure of classified documents from his time as vice 
 
 president. Documents were found at Mr. Biden's former office in Washington, D.C., and in the garage at his home in Wilmington, Delaware. Mr. Biden 
 
 defended the decision not to publicly reveal the discovery of those document earlier. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: As we found a handful of documents that were filed in the wrong place, we immediately turned them 
 
 over to the Archives and the Justice Department. We're fully cooperating. We're looking forward to get this resolved quickly. 
 <br>[10:25:03]
 
I think you're going to find there is nothing there. I have no regrets. I'm following what the lawyers have told me they want me to do. It's exactly 
 
 what we're doing. There is no there, there. Thank you. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS: Well, the first documents were on November 2nd, but it wasn't revealed until last week. A special counsel is now investigating. 
 
Shelling, snipers, and shrapnel. While the world talks about supplying weapons to Ukraine we hear firsthand on some of the horrors from the 
 
 battlefield. That's coming up just ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: Welcome back. I'm Eleni Giokos in Dubai. And you are watching CONNECT THE WORLD. We're live in Dubai. 
 
Germany says it is ready to, quote, "move quickly" if there is a consensus on sending tanks to Ukraine. However, the defense minister says that 
 
 decision still hasn't been made. Boris Mastouri, shown here on the right with the U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, spoke on the sidelines of a 
 
 big gathering in Germany on arming Ukraine. We are expecting to hear from Austin shortly after the meeting wraps up. Ukraine's president warned the 
 
 group that time is a Russian weapon. 
 
On the ground, Russia is claiming progress near Bakhmut. The city in eastern Ukraine has been the scene of intense fighting in recent weeks. 
 
CNN's Ben Wedeman and his team met with Ukrainian soldiers just back from the frontlines. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): They've been through the valley of the shadow of death. Most but not all made it 
 
 out in the valley alive. But not unscathed. 
 
On this stretch of road overlooking the battles from Bakhmut and Soledar, it's just safe enough to deliver the wounded to medics. Strewn along the 
 
 road, a bloodstain stretcher, a discarded, bloody flap jacket. 
 
(On camera): These troops are just back from the front at Soledar. They took wounded, they were facing Wagner fighters. They say those fighters 
 
 were attacking in waves. Now they're going back to safer ground. 
 
(Voice-over): The combat they saw was intense. 
 
There were regular troops, says this soldier. And in front of them, just meet convicts impacts on drugs without armor, without helmets. For them 
 
 life has no value.
 <br>[10:30:13]
 
Down in the killing fields, the shelling goes on without letup. For the medics, there is no rest.
 
Sometimes the martyrs don't give us any breathing space, (INAUDIBLE) tells me. We have many casualties from shrapnel, and when the snipers come, then 
 
 there are many dead and wounded. 
 
Troops transfer of fallen comrades from armored car to a van. Here, the shadow of death wreaks heavy. 
 
Ben Wedeman, CNN, outside of Bakhmut. 
 
(END OF VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS: Well, as we mentioned earlier, Peru faces another day of uncertainty after a sharp escalation in the nationwide protest it's seen 
 
 over the past several weeks. Thousands of demonstrators, many of them indigenous Peruvians, converged on the capital Lima from outlying areas on 
 
 Thursday, venting numerous longstanding grievances. 
 
Journalist Stefano Pozzebon is watching all of this from nearby Colombia. We have got him back online. Stefano, Peru's president told the protesters 
 
 last night that she wants to talk. But they're demanding that she stepped down and they're calling for a new government entirely. Any sense of 
 
 whether this is going to de-escalate or get worse? 
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Listen, by the way, sorry, Eleni, for that tech error, but going back to Peru, I think there are two challenges now 
 
 facing Boluarte. The first one is what happens to the thousands of protesters who in the past couple of days travel from the provinces, from 
 
 the Andean regions of Peru towards the capital Lima to have their voices heard. Right now they are staying in a couple of universities in downtown 
 
 Lima. 
 
But what they are saying is basically that they want to stay in the capital and keep picketing and protesting until they achieve their goal, which is 
 
 essentially resignation for Boluarte. So that is the main problem right now. And for today, Friday, and then the next couple of days and the 
 
 weekend, what happens with these thousands of protesters who are not from Lima, they can't simply go back to their homes because their homes are 
 
 sometimes days' travel away. 
 
And the second big problem is on the long term, how can Boluarte sort of bring the country together, and cruising away of these dire strait. We talk 
 
 to more than once that this is not a crisis of her making because these grievances are decades old, and it's a complete debate, deep debate about 
 
 the way that the country's resources are shared and spread among the population. But she is now the person who needs to open a dialogue and sort 
 
 of bring in the country together, I think. 
 
And that is perhaps the biggest challenge because even if these crisis right now would be resolved, unless the root causes of economic inequality 
 
 are addressed, it's likely that Peru will find itself here again in six months or a year in the future -- Eleni. 
 
GIOKOS: Yes, and brilliant points that this issues have been bubbling under the surface for a very long time. I guess, you know, as people are calling 
 
 for elections or an overrule of government, can you describe what the political environment is like right now and whether there are viable 
 
 candidates to be able to transform, restructure Peru's economic reality to appease, to allay some of the realities that people are facing? 
 
POZZEBON: I think if there is one word to describe the political environment in Peru right now is a full crisis. Boluarte is this sixth head 
 
 of state in less than five years. She has been in power for a little over a month because the predecessor, Pedro Castillo, tried to dismiss Congress 
 
 and rule by decree. And he was impeached, and he's now facing jail terms. But over the last six, seven years, Peru has really -- the Peruvian 
 
 president has been a revolving door of politicians who have not been able to bring the country together. 
 
And kind of like building the bridges in a very polarized country, perhaps the themes that we're talking here are shared all around the world, but 
 
 Peru is probably the worst place or the most dangerous phase of a democracy that is spinning upon itself. 
 
GIOKOS: Stefano Pozzebon, thank you very much. Good to see you as always. 
 
Well, let's get you up to speed on some other stories that are on our radar right now. 
 <br>[10:35:02]
 
Firefighters have extinguished a massive fire in a slum in Seoul, South Korea. Officials say nearly 3,000 square meters of land was damaged in the 
 
 fire, about 500 people were evacuated. No casualties were reported, authorities are investigating the cause. 
 
Rescue workers in Tibet are digging through tons of snow and ice after an avalanche buried dozens of vehicles along a highway and tunnel. Chinese 
 
 news report indicates at least 20 people have died, but more than 50 people have been rescued so far. There are said to be more than 1,000 rescue 
 
 workers trying to find additional survivors. 
 
Police in California are using cell phone data in an effort to find British actor Julian Sands one week after he went missing while hiking in the 
 
 mountains. Authorities say Sands' phone was still pinning, his location, two days after he went missing but has likely run out of batteries since 
 
 then. The search for the phone and TV actor has been hampered by bad weather and avalanche conditions in the area. 
 
And still ahead, a U.K. charity that works to help abused women and girls has a message for London's Met Police force. Our report from London just 
 
 ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
GIOKOS: More than 1,000 rotten apples have been dumped outside of London's Metropolitan Police headquarters. Domestic Violence Chairty Refuge says 
 
 it's making a point about what it calls misogyny right within the police force. Each apple represents a Met Police officer under investigation for 
 
 suspected violence against women and girls. And outrage is growing, as we hear from CNN's Nina dos Santos. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(PROTESTERS CHANTING "SHAME ON YOU")
 
NINA DOS SANTOS, CNN EUROPE EDITOR (voice-over): Outrage like this has simmered across the U.K. since the death of Sara Everard, raped and 
 
 murdered by a London Metropolitan Police officer over two years ago. 
 
Now news that this other serving policeman has admitted to 24 counts of rape, has left Britain's especially women questioning whether they can 
 
 trust the very people who are supposed to keep them safe. 
 
Patsy Stevenson was among those manhandled by officers from the U.K.'s biggest force at a protest mourning Sarah Everard in 2021. 
 
PATSY STEVENSON, WOMEN'S RIGHTS ACTIVIST: It feels like we were all screaming out, can you just change before something like this happens? And 
 
 now it's happened again. 
 
DOS SANTOS: Both of these policemen had a history of misconduct towards women and, as diplomatic protection officers, they also had access to guns, 
 
 a rarity within British law enforcement. 
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
MARK ROWLEY, COMMISSIONER, LONDON METROPOLITAN POLICE: I'm sorry. And I know we've let women down. And I think we failed over failed over two 
 
 decades to be as ruthless as we ought to be in guarding our own integrity. 
 
DOS SANTOS: The Met says it's investigating 1,071 officers involved in 1,633 different cases over a decade. Commissioner Mark Rowley has 
 
 complained he doesn't have the power to stop them. That's little comfort to the woman who reported the latest offending officer repeatedly, both before 
 
 and during his more than 20-year career with the police to deaf ears. Again and again, he was vetted and given a green light. 
 
Dal Babu spent 30 years with the Met Police and was once head of the firearms unit. 
 
DAL BABU, FORMER CHIEF SUPERINTENDENT, LONDON METROPOLITAN POLICE: I had turned down people when I was a police officer who I did not think were 
 
 appropriate. Despite people knowing about this individual, they still allowed him to become firearms officer. 
 
DOS SANTOS (on camera): Why? Is that just internal protection culture this prevalent? 
 
BABU: No, we've got multiple failures in leadership in making proper decisions. I remember on one occasion being appalled when a detective 
 
 sergeant had taken a young constable to a call, pulled up in a side area, and sexually assaulted him. And I wanted him sacked, but he was protected 
 
 by other officers, and he was given a warning. I asked my daughters to text me whenever they go out. 
 
DOS SANTOS: Their dad was a police officer for many years. Do you think they trust the police? 
 
BABU: My daughters don't trust the police. 
 
DOS SANTOS: Polling commissioned by a government watchdog in the aftermath of Sara Everard's murder suggested that less than half of the British 
 
 population had a positive view of the nation's police forces. Other survey since then indicate that that confidence has only fallen further. 
 
(Voice-over): Campaigners like Harriet Wistrich want government inquiries underway to have legal powers, to bringing in changes to better protect 
 
 women and to file a super complaint in the courts. 
 
HARRIET WISTRICH, FOUNDER &amp; DIRECTOR, CENTER FOR WOMEN'S JUSTICE: There is a culture of misogyny within the Metropolitan Police. Clearly they have to 
 
 make some very radical changes in order to sort of really encourage women to come forward because many women won't come forward. 
 
DOS SANTOS: Transparency will also be key, but some say taking more officers to court might not cut it. 
 
STEVENSON: I don't personally think they're going to change in the way that everyone thinks they are. I think they really need to start from scratch. 
 
DOS SANTOS: Until that happens, Patsy says turning to Britain's police for her and millions more will not always be preferable or indeed possible. 
 
Nina dos Santos, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS: A legendary voice of the 1960s has died. 
 
David Cosby, you see him in the middle here, was a founding member of two legendary music groups, the Byrds and Crosby, Stills and Nash, which later 
 
 included Neil Young. Cosby's ballads became the soundtrack for generations with memorable songs like "Down by the River," which you just heard, "Teach 
 
 Your Children a Higher" and "Suite: Judy Blue Eyes." 
 
The group performed at the historic Woodstock Festival in 1969, was only the second time they played together live. Cosby, Stills and Nash won the 
 
 Grammy the following year for Best New Artist. During his career, David Cosby received a total of 10 Grammy nominations and was inducted into the 
 
 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice. 
 
All right, before we go, here are live pictures from Ramstein Airbase, where we expect Lloyd Austin to speak soon. He is the U.S. Defense 
 
 secretary. As you can see, we are waiting for that announcement. And we're now taking you to sports update with Amanda Davies, stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:45:52]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END