Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Volcano Erupts In Iceland, Spewing Lava & Toxic Gas; Tom Scherlen, Amarillo, TX, City Council Member, Discusses The City Considering Abortion Travel Ban; FAA To Adress Traffic Controller Fatigue After Close Calls; AAA Expects Busiest Travel Season Ever At Airports This Year. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired December 19, 2023 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:32:14]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Happening right now in Iceland, a volcano is erupting. It is spewing hot lava, spouting toxic fumes into the sky. This started late last night on the southwestern peninsula. 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: It's almost like a meditative view. I love watching this. It is so relaxing. Also, potentially, very dangerous as well! 
 
These are dramatic overnight pictures showing the orange glow created by the lava's flow. The molten rock is now pushing through a crack that's about two miles long. You can see aerial footage of it here. 
 
Officials say the size of the eruption is starting to diminish. Fortunately, it does not appear to be life-threatening. Nearby residents had already been evacuated weeks ago because of seismic activity. They are urged to stay away because of toxic gases. 
 
We want to discuss with Jess Phoenix. She is a volcanologist and geologist, also executive director and co-founder of Blueprint Earth. 
 
Jess, thank you so much for being with us. 
 
What do you think when you see these images? Fortunately, it is not life-threatening. Is there anything that might change the path of the lava flow? 
 
JESS PHOENIX, VOLCANOLOGIST/GEOLOGIST: Boris, it is kind of an old adage in volcanology circles that the only constant is change. That is because volcanoes are not predictable. 
 
We know what they have done in the past by looking at previous lava flows that are still -- they have hardened, they've solidified, cooled over a millennium. 
 
We get an idea of what a particular volcano has done. That might help us get an idea of what is to come. But it is not 100 percent certain. This volcano is known for less violent eruptions. I know the lava
 
 fountains probably got everybody excited because they are very dramatic to see. But this volcano does not produce the big ash clouds, like when the other volcano in Iceland erupted in 2010. 
 
We are not likely to see disruptions to air traffic. The biggest threat is actually to property. Because people have been evacuated. That is excellent news. 
 
KEILAR: Yes. I actually had a flight that had to move out earlier because of that. It was in Ireland. It just goes to show you how traffic in Europe was affected. So I know that people keep an eye on it for these reasons. 
 
What would change dramatically here the path of this going towards populated areas? 
 
PHOENIX: It is actually connected to something called the Mid-Atlantic Spreading Ridge. It is basically like a giant zipper in the earth's crust almost. 
 
And the North American and European tectonic plates are being pushed apart as magma comes up from beneath the crust. It goes through the crust and then erupts onto the surface. 
 <br>[13:35:04]
 
So basically, if this eruption continues to spread to the south, that would be where the town would be in danger. 
 
Right now, most of the erupted activity is on the north end of what we saw from those images earlier. That is a good thing. That is less populated. 
 
So basically, if we get more magma injected into the system, then we have more places that it needs to go. So we hope that things stay on the calm side and , hopefully, peter out without actually spreading. 
 
SANCHEZ: And, Jess, what happens with that gas? Does it dissipate enough for it to not be dangerous? What happens if weather comes and pushes it towards a population center? 
 
PHOENIX: Volcanic gases, great question. They are one of the biggest threats to people in the immediate area because they are largely acid gases, so hydrogen boride, hydrogen sulfide, et cetera. You do not want to breathe those. 
 
In fact, when volcanologists go to work opposed to active lava flows, we wear respirators, like professional respirators, not your N-95s. 
 
So those gases are very unhealthy to breathe. The sting your eyes. They sting all your mucous membranes in your nose and your throat. 
 
And likely, the amount of gas being produced is not going to affect anyone, unless they are right up close, which they shouldn't be there. Hopefully, the gases won't be an issue with this eruption. Honestly, if this one stays the way it is, that is the best-case
 
 scenario. 
 
KEILAR: Jess, we are mesmerized along with you watching this. 
 
We certainly appreciate all of your expertise. 
 
PHOENIX: Thank you. 
 
KEILAR: So some states are banning abortion. The fight for the right to choose is actually moving to cities. Next, we will speak to a city council member in Amarillo, Texas, where they are debating a new kind of travel ban. 
 
SANCHEZ: Also, a judge blocking the removal of a Confederate monument in Arlington National Cemetery. The latest on this battle when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:41:29]
 
KEILAR: The fight over the right to an abortion has long been a national issue. Here, in the aftermath of last year's Dobbs decision at the Supreme Court, it's fast becoming a local one, too. Some cities are considering their own travel bans, in fact. 
 
One is Amarillo, Texas, where they are debating a ban that would outlaw helping an individual travel on city or county roads for the purpose of obtaining an abortion. 
 
The city council has heard from residents both in favor and those who oppose the ban. 
 
We are joined now by Tom Scherlen, who sits on Amarillo's city council. 
 
Sir, thank you so much for taking the time to be with us this afternoon. We do appreciate it.
 
If you could, first, just explain how this would work, how law enforcement would even know who is traveling on the road for the purpose of getting an abortion. 
 
TOM SCHERLEN, AMARILLO, TEXAS, CITY COUNCIL MEMBER: Well, what this ordinance is being proposed as is that neighbor turns in neighbor, or neighbors report what they see. 
 
It would be a civil suit, is what is being proposed. That is how the travel ban would work, where a neighbor would report something. Then file a civil suit in court to bring justice to it. 
 
KEILAR: You don't know, you say, how you're going to vote at this point. What do you think about that, neighbor turning in neighbor? 
 
SCHERLEN: I'm very much against that. That is one thing I stood very strong on. Last time we saw something like this was during World War II when Hitler was asking neighbors to turn neighbors in during the war, especially towards the Jews. 
 
And I just don't propose liking to see a neighbor turn in a neighbor, particularly in America. We live in a free society. And according to the Constitution, I believe that you are entitled the right to travel. 
 
KEILAR: You say you are anti-abortion. You are undecided on the bill. I don't know what to tell you, listening to you about this bill, it sounds like you are leaning against supporting it. Would that be fair? 
 
SCHERLEN: I wouldn't say that be fair to say. But I will say this also, is that I won't know how I will vote until I see a written document in front of me and what is in it.
 
Because I'm one of these I believe in small government. I believe in the Constitution of the United States. 
 
When I took office, I took office to represent all people, not any one particular group. 
 
I would have to actually weigh the things that are in the ordinance that would actually be put forth before I can tell you how I would vote on this. 
 
KEILAR: But I fear to say the crux of this won't change, right? The crux of it is neighbor turning on neighbor. 
 
Because if you were going through Amarillo -- you can just avoid Amarillo. This is really about people leaving Amarillo, or people helping people travel through or leave Amarillo. 
 
So, you know, with that in mind, if you feel that this is Hitler- esque, how would you get past that to support this? 
 <br>[13:45:07]
 
SCHERLEN: That would be something I would have to see it written before I would sign off on something like that. 
 
It is just really hard -- I mean, the Supreme Court even struggled with this issue. Now we are as a city struggling with this issue. 
 
There is no clear-cut answers to what -- in the past month, I have listened very intently to both sides. Both sides have good arguments. Both sides bring good, both sides bring bad. 
 
But I'm going to be asked to make a vote. At some point in time, I'm going to have to make a decision. At this point in time, I cannot make that decision with the information that I have for the different proposed ordinances that have been proposed to me. Excuse me.
 
KEILAR: But you worry it is unconstitutional to restrict someone's right to travel? 
 
SCHERLEN: Yes, I do. I do believe that. I believe you are protected in the Constitution for that. So --
 
KEILAR: Council Member -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KEILAR: Sorry, go on. 
 
SCHERLEN: We would be treading on -- go ahead. 
 
KEILAR: No, you were saying we'd be treading on? 
 
SCHERLEN: Yes, we would be me treading on a monumental law that would probably make it -- (INAUDIBLE) -- with a travel ban. 
 
But now, from what I understand, without it being legal, if you are dealing in a civil court, that civil court is going to be totally different than in a criminal court. 
 
So that could possibly get pushed through by being in civil court. That is something that I would want to investigate further. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCHERLEN: But they are not talking about doing it criminally. They are talking about doing it in civil court. 
 
KEILAR: Yes. Certainly, a lot of questions constitutionally still though. 
 
Council Member, we really appreciate the discussion. Thank you so much for joining us from Amarillo. 
 
SCHERLEN: Thank you. Have a great day. 
 
KEILAR: You, too, sir. 
 
If you are traveling this holiday season, you probably already knew that it was going to be busy. But you might not be ready for what airports are expecting. Ahead, we have the forecast and what the FAA is doing to keep passengers safe. 
 
We will be back here on CNN NEWS CENTRAL in just a few moments. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:52:23]
 
SANCHEZ: First on CNN, the Federal Aviation Administration is taking steps to address traffic controller fatigue after a string of near collisions this year. 
 
The agency is facing a shortage of more than 3,500 controllers. That is causing the current staff to work extra days and longer hours. 
 
KEILAR: We have CNN aviation correspondent, Pete Muntean, with us now on this. Pete, what is the FAA planning to do here? 
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT: Well, I just spoke to the head of the Federal Aviation Administration about the scoop that I broke last night. And this is significant because air traffic controller fatigue came up in the investigation of one of these closest near collisions. 
 
What the FAA administrator is doing is bringing together a three- member panel to report to him on the safety risks of air traffic controls being fatigued. 
 
That workforce, chronically understaffed by about 3,000 controllers. And as a result, controllers are often working mandatory overtime. 
 
Here is where that becomes a problem. Back in February, a FedEx flight landing in Austin came within 100 feet of hitting a departing Southwest Airlines flight. That incident took place in dense fog before dawn. 
 
The air traffic controller in the tower told investigators he had been working a six-day week of 10-hour shifts. 
 
FAA Administrator Mike Whitaker told the FAA exclusively, this is a tough lifestyle, and that this panel intends to identify risks of the job. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE WHITAKER, FAA ADMINISTRATOR: Me, coming into this job, I need to understand that risk. This team of experts is there to give me an assessment of what that risk means. 
 
And if they come back and say this is fine, but you should hire more controllers overtime, that is where we will be. If they identify an immediate risk, we will respond to it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUNTEAN: The National Association of Air Traffic Controllers is the union that represents this workforce. 
 
They tell me in a statement, "The answer to prolonged controller fatigue is a long-term commitment to hiring and training of air traffic controllers." 
 
Essentially, hire more air traffic controllers. That would make them less fatigued. That is what the union says. 
 
Something the FAA administrator says they will be opening up the hiring period coming this spring to the general public. So we could see more controllers entering the workforce. 
 
KEILAR: I would think people who are traveling think about this, right? 
 
MUNTEAN: I think so, too. 
 
KEILAR: They talk about it. 
 
So you have, according to AAA, seven million people expected to fly in these 10 days between Christmas and New Year's. What is the FAA doing to keep air traffic running smoothly? Because we know people want to know about this. 
 
MUNTEAN: I just asked the administrator about this. And some of the idea here is to throttle back some of the flights into some of the most busy airports in the country. 
 
And make it so that the areas that have few controllers and have a lot of air traffic don't get overworked. 
 <br>[13:55:04]
 
So in New York, they throttled back the number of flights. That has worked out for the airlines, they tell us. Also coming into Reagan National Airport here in D.C.
 
The numbers from the TSA, it's a 12-day travel period, up 6 percent from last year. The big days, the 21st, 29th and the 1st, when everyone begins coming home all at once. 
 
So we will see about 30 million people in total flying on commercial airlines. It is about to be huge. 
 
SANCHEZ: We better have our patients. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
MUNTEAN: I know you love to say that. 
 
KEILAR: I'm staying home. You guys have fun. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SANCHEZ: Pete Muntean, thanks very much. 
 
MUNTEAN: Anytime. 
 
SANCHEZ: Of course. 
 
So from Washington to Austin, Texas, the political battle over immigration is heating up. 
 
Politicians on both sides of the aisle are searching for a solution to the crisis as the number of migrants crossing illegally keep going up. We are talking record-breaking numbers. 
 
Ahead, we are going to talk about the political fight and what can be done about the plight so many searching for sanctuary. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)