Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Russia: Cross-Border Attackers Driven Back Into Ukraine; Portuguese Police Search A Reservoir For Fresh Evidence In The Missing Child Case Of Madeleine McCann; Millions In Central Mexico Warned To Prepare For Evacuation As Volcanic Eruption Threat Looms; DeSantis To Announce Presidential Bid On Wednesday; USSG: Social Media May Not Be Safe For Youth. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired May 23, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00]
 
ISA SOARES, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, Russia says the fighters who have 
 
 encroached on their territory are dead or pushed back into Ukraine. Why this Belgorod incursion is a major moment in the war. Then, Portuguese 
 
 police are searching a reservoir for fresh evidence in the missing child case of Madeleine McCann.  
 
We'll take you live to the site. And then later, officials warn millions living near Mexico's most dangerous active volcano get ready to evacuate. 
 
 But first this hour, just one day after a bold attack on Russian soil. The Kremlin is claiming they're back in control. Moscow says they have pushed 
 
 back fighters who carried out a cross-border attack in the Russian region of Belgorod on Monday.  
 
All of this is just what Russia is saying, as CNN has not confirmed these details. The governor in the Belgorod region says the counterterrorism 
 
 operation is now over, and that one civilian died as a result of the fighting. Now, Moscow is referring to the attackers as Ukrainian, although 
 
 Kyiv, remember, denies involvement. They say they are Russians acting independently. 
 
Two groups of anti-Putin Russian nationals are actually claiming responsibility. They are both Russian units in the Ukrainian security 
 
 force. So let's get more from all of this from our senior international correspondent Sam Kiley who has spoken previously to someone involved in 
 
 this incursion, is in Kharkiv for us now, that's northeastern Ukraine, just across the border from Belgorod.  
 
So Sam, you and I were talking about this yesterday. Just bring us up to date then with this attack, what took place in Belgorod and what the 
 
 Kremlin, Russia, is saying about this.  
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: So, very briefly, Isa, what has happened is that two units that are almost entirely made-up of 
 
 Russian nationals, but are part of the Ukrainian security services, and have seen action under the command of the army in the past, crossed from 
 
 Ukraine into Russian territory about two hours west of where I am, northwest of where I am, and conducted a combat operation over at least 24 
 
 hours.  
 
Now, the significance of this is that the Ukrainians are keeping them at arm's length, essentially saying somewhat tongue-in-cheek, that they are 
 
 Russian citizens acting alone, whereas, in fact, they are members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, they are also Russian citizens. They were driving 
 
 vehicles that are part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, carrying weapons and uniforms that indicate the same thing.  
 
But nonetheless, they went across and occupied or fought in three small villages up to about 8 kilometers, 5 miles inside Russia, and campaigned 
 
 very aggressively, while they've been doing that on social media. And that's a very important aspect of this, because this is as much a 
 
 psychological operation, Isa, as it is an attempt at land grab.  
 
Now, it seems, from the Russian perspective, that they're saying that what they're calling a counterterrorist operation is over. The Ukrainians are 
 
 being stunned(ph), frankly, about whether or not that group, now those two groups have come back into Ukrainian territory. They did post pictures of 
 
 themselves in what they said were captured Russian vehicles.  
 
They claim to have had some military success there. The Russians are making similar counter-claims. We can't prove one way or the other quite yet, but 
 
 it is clear that this Ukrainian-backed group of Russians did go into Russia, and this is all of course, ahead of the anticipated Summer 
 
 offensive being launched, but expected to be launched by Ukraine. I think it's very important to see it in that context, all about rattling the 
 
 Russians, Isa.  
 
SOARES: Yes, and as you were talking, we're looking at this map here. Lori(ph), if you can bring it up just for our viewers, in terms of the 
 
 region of Belgorod. How significant is the region for Russia in its -- in its battle against Ukraine? I'm thinking logistics here because it's close, 
 
 of course, to the east of Ukraine and, of course, to Bakhmut. Talk to us about the logistical operation, how that plays into this whole thing.  
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
KILEY: Well, it's very close to where I am here in Kharkiv. Belgorod itself is probably -- it's certainly less than an hour's drive and due north of 
 
 here. This main road that you can probably see on your map if you drew a line between the two cities, that would basically be it, was the main line 
 
 of advance made by the Russians when they drove into northern Ukraine as, indeed, was the area that the Ukrainian-backed Russian units traveled in 
 
 when they went back into Russian territory.  
 
It's a very important access of the northern part of the invasion. And it has been pounded frequently, all along that border area, villages are 
 
 getting hit on a pretty regular basis by the Russian artillery. So, it's a very important real base for Russian artillery. Now, Belgorod itself and 
 
 the fields just south of it, Fred Pleitgen was reporting from right at the beginning of that war when I was here and he was watching missiles take off 
 
 that we were seeing and hearing landing here.  
 
It is that close. You could actually see the takeoff and the landing on live television because they're so close. It's a very important area, 
 
 indeed, for the Russians. I don't think that the Ukrainian-backed Russians were imagining that they would be able to do any significant strategic 
 
 effect, but they've certainly -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
KILEY: Thumbed their nose at the Kremlin and caused a storm of criticism of the military command within the Russian Armed Forces for allowing this to 
 
 happen.  
 
SOARES: And on that point then, Sam, you know, if we're talking about these two Russian groups then, and just, you know, 24 hours, 48 hours doing this, 
 
 will the Russian -- and I'm keen to get your analysis on this. Will the Russians be moving troops then from the frontlines, Sam, to try and protect 
 
 their border? How do you see this playing out?  
 
KILEY: Well, that's exactly what they -- I imagine the Ukrainians who, after all, will have given the instructions for this operation, whatever 
 
 they may say in public, will be trying to provoke. They want to be able to get the Russians to not be able to figure out where they're going to get 
 
 attacked next, so that they're starting to move frontline troops and reinforcements around, not quite sure where the next incursion or 
 
 engagement is going to be. 
 
Whilst at the same time, you're continuing to see very heavy fighting and pressure being brought to bear around Bakhmut, with the Ukrainians trying 
 
 to encircle that town, which is now claimed to be dominated mostly, at least, by the Russian Mercenary Group, Wagner. And then you've got this 
 
 800-mile frontline that the Russians are having to guess where the Ukrainians may launch their offensive if, indeed, they finally do. So, it's 
 
 all about keeping the Russians off balance.  
 
SOARES: Sam Kiley for us this hour in Kharkiv, Ukraine, thanks very much, Sam, appreciate it. And as Sam and I have been discussing, you know, this 
 
 attack on the Belgorod region is extremely rare. CNN's Matthew Chance has more on the groups who are claiming responsibility, and I must warn you, 
 
 some of his report is graphic. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Russian forces insist they're taking back control from a group of what they 
 
 call saboteurs infiltrating this leafy border. These images purporting to show a Russian soldier detaining three of them was broadcast on state 
 
 media.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
CHANCE: Meet the anti-Kremlin Russians, now taking the fight back home. "This is how we work", he says, amid a bold armored raid across the 
 
 Ukrainian border into Russia itself. CNN can't independently verify any of the images, but this entire column of vehicles was spotted crossing the 
 
 frontier. Ukrainian forces insist it's not them, but exiled Russian groups fighting against the Kremlin.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We are Russians, just like you. We want our children to grow up in peace and be free, so they can travel, 
 
 study and be happy, but this is not possible in Putin's Russia.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
CHANCE: And the raid caught Russian border guards unaware. This one tried to be a hero, the narrator says, amid the scattered passports and a 
 
 portrait of Vladimir Putin overlooking the carnage below. "The border is now unlocked", says one of the fighters. "Grandpa Putin will soon turn to 
 
 honey", says the other, in other words, die.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) 
 
CHANCE: On Kremlin-controlled television, the presenters stood like statues as the day's events replayed on videos from stunned locals, witnessing the 
 
 fight. 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
The Kremlin called the attack a diversion, but already, this sharp criticism from Russian hard-liners that this was allowed to occur. This 
 
 Russian region, right next to Ukraine, is no stranger to cross-border attacks, but armed incursions like this are rare. And the mood here, 
 
 according to local Russian officials, has shifted.  
 
With empty buses coming in to evacuate residents, while those who can are leaving by themselves. Matthew Chance, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES: Well, the White House is demanding consular access to U.S. journalist Evan Gershkovich after a Russian court extended his detention 
 
 today. The "Wall Street Journal" reporter is the first foreign journalist to be arrested in Moscow on spying charges since the Soviet Union 
 
 collapsed. In a closed-door hearing on Tuesday, the court ordered Gershkovich held for an additional three months before trial. The White 
 
 House says he is wrongfully detained and must be released now. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JOHN KIRBY, COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL, WHITE HOUSE: He shouldn't be detained at all. Journalism is not a 
 
 crime, we've said this before, he needs to be released immediately. That is still President Biden's view, still the administration's view, and we're 
 
 still going to work very hard to see if we can get him home with his family where he belongs.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: Well, let's get some perspective now from someone who knows Russia well. CNN contributor, Jill Dougherty; she's a former CNN Moscow Bureau 
 
 chief and is now an adjunct professor at Georgetown University in Washington. Jill, great to see you. So, what does this mean, then, for 
 
 Evan? I mean, do we know how he's doing? Because of course, as we mentioned, no counselor access as of yet.  
 
JILL DOUGHERTY, ADJUNCT PROFESSOR, GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY: Yes, and that means of course, U.S. officials who are working at the embassy are not 
 
 allowed to see him. And they've been asking for this. They've been twice denied access, as they should have access. But it's quite obvious, I think, 
 
 that Russia is slowing down the process.  
 
This legal process, at least, as much as it can to drag this out, and to also, you know, bring up reasons, supposed reasons for not giving that 
 
 access. So they're saying they're deeply concerned. And you'd have to say that this is concerning, in terms of Evan's future, because this could drag 
 
 out for a year. He has not been convicted, as we know.  
 
It's pretrial detention. So if they -- if they wanted, Russian officials wanted, they could actually let him go, you know, to home, and wait out the 
 
 time at home. But they aren't, they're keeping him in Lefortovo Prison, and that is a pretty grim place.  
 
SOARES: How is he doing? Do we know Jill, from his lawyers? I know his -- I heard his parents were in Russia as well.  
 
DOUGHERTY: They were. The parents were there. I think it's a little unclear to me whether they actually got into the courtroom. I believe that it was a 
 
 closed hearing. They got into the court building, but you know, to really sit down and evaluate how he's doing, reports have been relatively positive 
 
 so far. But the important thing would be to have those embassy officials get in there, talk to him, evaluate directly with him what is going on and 
 
 that's not being done.  
 
SOARES: Yes, and separately, I understand that a senior Russian official, Jill, has died after falling ill on a plane, I understand, and you know, 
 
 another mysterious death, one of many that we have been covering here on CNN. What are you learning about the senior Russian official and what 
 
 exactly happened?  
 
DOUGHERTY: Well, nobody really knows. I mean, this is one of the problems. He was a senior official, and he has been quoted as talking to another 
 
 person very critically, about the situation in Russia, the crackdown on almost everything, and urging that, you know, people should leave. So why 
 
 he died, it's another one of these mysteries. You could, of course, say that any criticism of this -- what is still referred to at this point as a 
 
 special military operation. 
 
Any criticism is being cracked down on very severely. And so having a former -- you know, having an official die under mysterious circumstances, 
 
 he was coming back from Cuba. And we know that, you know, poisoning is one of the ways that opponents of the Kremlin have been killed in the past. So 
 
 I think what all of this says to me, Julia, is that within Russia right now, behind the scenes, and now are coming up to the surface. 
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
That there is a lot of chaos, a lot of internal groups fighting with each other. And over everything is the -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
DOUGHERTY: FSB, which essentially now, I would say, is running the country. They are the people who are leading the charge against Evan Gershkovich, 
 
 and they are the people who go after critics of the war that President Putin has started.  
 
SOARES: Jill Dougherty for us there in Washington, thanks very much, Jill, I appreciate it. And still to come tonight, a moving truck crashes near the 
 
 White House, we'll have a live report on what happened, and the arrest of course, of the suspect. And then Spanish police take action against racism 
 
 in football. That story from Valencia next.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SOARES: Well, Spanish police have arrested seven people in connection with racist abuse directed at football star, Vinicius Jr. Three are accused of 
 
 chanting racist insults during Real Madrid's match against Valencia that happened on Sunday, if you remember. Police accused the other four of 
 
 hanging an effigy of Vinicius off a bridge in Madrid in January.  
 
Both incidents are being investigated as hate crimes. The Real Madrid star who hails from Brazil, has been the target of racist abuse from the stands 
 
 on numerous occasions. Let's get the latest now from journalist Atika Shubert, who is tracking this story for us from Valencia. So, we now have 
 
 seven people, Atika, but I mean, this effigy was in January. What's taken them so long?  
 
ATIKA SHUBERT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, that's what a lot of people are asking. The national police say it was just a matter of investigation, that 
 
 it took them time to look into this. Even though the incident was widely shared on social media, it has taken a long time for those arrests to 
 
 happen. I think what's clear is that Vinicius has really forced the country to have a long look at racism in the sport here in Spain.  
 
You know, the final straw seems to have been that match on Sunday, when, really, you know, it was almost insult to injury. He showed up at the 
 
 match, it was -- it went on for a while, but in the last final minutes, several fans began hurling racist abuse at him on the pitch, and when he 
 
 complained to the referee, things escalated quickly.  
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
A brawl broke out between players, but it was Vinicius who was given the red card and expelled from the game, and that seems to have been the final 
 
 straw both for him and for Real Madrid. They complained not only to La Liga, but to the Valencian prosecutors office, and that's why we now see 
 
 the arrests of three suspects here for hurling that racist abuse at him in the stadium, and that will be investigated as a hate crime.  
 
But that's not enough for Vinicius. He's taken to social media to lambast La Liga, calling it, in his words, a racist football league, and that has 
 
 set off a heated online discussion with the president of La Liga. So, really, this has really forced a national conversation to confront racism 
 
 in the sport and see what can be done about it. It does seem that the police are now cracking down on it, but, you know, these are not isolated 
 
 incidents in Spain.
 
They have happened at other matches, and Vinicius, himself, has taken it upon himself to try and force the country to reckon with it.  
 
SOARES: Yes, and on the wider aspect of this, Atika, I mean, the Spanish league's handling of this, I think, you know, it's fair to say, has 
 
 received widespread condemnation. How is La Liga responding because so far, all they're doing is really identifying and reporting cases, but actually 
 
 not changing the rules at all, and that's not stopping this racism, the abuse by some of these fans. So, what can they do?  
 
SHUBERT: Well, exactly, and Vinicius has complained before to La Liga, and I think -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
SHUBERT: In the last two seasons, they've actually had nine complaints coming from him. But La Liga's stand in the past has always been that they 
 
 do not have the legal power to try and sanction individual teams, football clubs or fans. That appears to be changing now. La Liga says that it will 
 
 now look into changing those rules, allowing them to do that. Valencia Football Club, for example, came out today saying that not only is it 
 
 helping  with the investigation with police, but that if fans participate in this kind of racist abuse, they will be banned from the stadium.  
 
So, we are seeing individual football clubs speaking out more, and La Liga says, it will be changing its ways, but it's just sad for Vinicius in 
 
 particular that it had to come after a whole series of these kinds of events that finally came to ahead on Sunday.  
 
SOARES: Indeed. Atika Shubert for us in Valencia, great to see you, Atika, thanks very much. Well, it's the missing child case that has captured the 
 
 world's attention. It hasn't really let go for 16 years. Today, police in Portugal are searching in and around a reservoir for any fresh evidence in 
 
 the 2007 disappearance of Madeleine McCann. I want to bring in CNN Portugal anchor Ana Sofia Cardoso who joins us now from that reservoir near Silves. 
 
And Ana Sofia, I mean, the search began this morning. I understand that it's been halted because of the rain, and I see you with that umbrella. So, 
 
 talk us through what is happening and what officials are telling you.  
 
ANA SOFIA CARDOSO, CNN PORTUGAL ANCHOR: Hi, now we are able, for several hours, to see authorities were able to conduct some excavations, and then 
 
 they tried to do some works in the tents, trying to work with some material and then analyze by the experts. So, we have also seen a boat, but that 
 
 boat, the type of the work is more -- make the transports of the officers from one side to the other side, and then the authorities focused their 
 
 efforts on a sniffer dog for several hours that helped the officers to try to find some evidence, some proof that can relate to Christian Bruckner 
 
 here and also Madeleine McCann.  
 
The area selected by the authorities is the area behind in my back. It's an area completely dried because now it's rained, but it's area dry because of 
 
 the drought here in 'ugal(ph).  
 
SOARES: Yes, it's been -- it's been seeing droughts, so I think that would mean it's easier for authorities. Ana Sofia, really -- 
 
CARDOSO: Drought -- 
 
SOARES: Appreciate it -- 
 
CARDOSO: Yes -- 
 
SOARES: Yes, thank you very much. (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE), thank you. Now, an investigation is underway after a moving truck crashed into a 
 
 security barrier near the White House. Take a look at the video posted on Twitter. The Secret Service says it happened on Monday across the street 
 
 from the White House. No one at the White House or Secret Service luckily were injured. 
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
The driver in the crash has been arrested. Joining us now with more is CNN correspondent, Brian Todd. So Brian, a suspect has been identified and is 
 
 expected to be in court, where you are. Just what more can you tell us? What are you learning?  
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Isa, we're learning that the suspect should be in court not today, but tomorrow, at some point. We were just learning 
 
 that a moment ago from sources inside the courthouse here. He will make an initial appearance on Wednesday. What we can tell you from law enforcement 
 
 sources is that the suspect last night, at about 10:00 p.m. Eastern Time, just after he allegedly crashed that vehicle into that security barrier 
 
 about 200 yards from the White House, he exited the vehicle with a Nazi flag on him.  
 
That's according to a law enforcement source who told CNN that information, and the source saying to us as well that when he was interviewed by law 
 
 enforcement, the suspect said he wanted to kidnap and harm President Biden. Authorities are now considering the role that mental health may have played 
 
 in this incident.  
 
The suspect now identified as Sai Varshith Kandula, 19 years old from Chesterfield, Missouri, he was arrested and charged with threatening to 
 
 kill, kidnap or inflict harm on the president. That's one potential charge he's facing, another is assault with a dangerous weapon, also reckless 
 
 operation of a motor vehicle, destruction of federal property and trespassing.  
 
We did learn last night that in the initial moments after he crashed that vehicle, then exited it, the law enforcement authorities who responded to 
 
 the scene were concerned that there may be explosives inside that truck, so they evacuated the Hay Adams Hotel, which is just across the street from 
 
 where this occurred. They evacuated that hotel for a brief period.  
 
They did search the vehicle and found that there were no explosives inside the truck. So, they did allow people back into that hotel. We're also told 
 
 by the Secret Service that at no time was President Biden in any danger, but the Secret Service also not really giving us much information as to 
 
 what protective measures they might have taken to protect the president right around the time of this incident, Isa.  
 
SOARES: Brian Todd for us in Washington, 2:26 in the afternoon, thanks very much, Brian. And still to come tonight, a new warning to millions of people 
 
 living in central Mexico, about the country's most dangerous active volcano. That story, after this short break. You are watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
SOARES: Welcome back everyone.
 
Millions are getting ready for potential evacuation amid increasing activity from Mexico's most dangerous active volcano. The volcano called 
 
 Popocatepetl has been spewing smoke and ash since last week. Some 25 million people in Central Mexico live near the volcano, which is about 70 
 
 kilometers away from Mexico City. CNN's Patrick Oppmann is following the story. 
 
Patrick, millions are preparing for a possible evacuation. 
 
How quickly can they evacuate people?
 
What are authorities telling you?
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Officials are saying not to evacuate just yet. But watching this volcano, people are very concerned. Because 
 
 even though this is a volcano that has erupted very regularly over the last 30 years, of course, it is a dangerous situation. 
 
We see the eruptions have taken place over the last several days and the concern is not just huge boulders and rocks flying down from the volcano 
 
 and killing people, it's also a question of air quality. You have so much ash that gets emitted into the air, Isa, that is very bad for people's 
 
 health. 
 
We have seen some schools in the area close down. Officials are saying that people should not be using parks very close to the volcano because they're 
 
 sweeping up large piles of ash. 
 
And of course, there is concern that if you were flying into airports, even as far away as Mexico City, that the ash there has already delayed flights. 
 
 The ash can be very damaging to planes and it can have a huge impact on air travel. 
 
It can be dangerous when you think about pieces of ash getting into planes' engines. That is something that officials are very concerned about. 
 
 Mexico's president Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador was downplaying this at his press conference this morning, saying a little bit less ash has been 
 
 emitted over the last several hours. 
 
And people should not be getting too excited about this. But for those millions of residents, this volcano stretches across three different states 
 
 in Mexico. In Central Mexico, they should be very concerned because, as you know, the situation with a volcano can change any minute. 
 
So people are not letting down their guard at the moment. 
 
SOARES: What are volcanologists saying?
 
Do they expect to get to a red alert?
 
I think it's on amber right now. 
 
OPPMANN: Yes. It is a yellow level right now, just below a red level, where people would have to evacuate. So they are advising people to keep a very 
 
 close eye. 
 
And, of course, the amazing thing with new technologies, they were able to predict before a volcano explodes. So they feel they would have adequate 
 
 time to warn people in a situation like this. But there is not a moment to spare. When the experts say to evacuate, then it's time to go. 
 
SOARES: El Popocatepetl is far easier to say than what I had to try and say. Thanks very much, Patrick. We appreciate it. 
 
Right now we are looking at Typhoon Mawar. It has grown to super typhoon strength as it barrels toward the U.S. territory of Guam, threatening to 
 
 slam into the Pacific island. Forecasters warn wind, rainfall and storm surge pose a serious threat. And this could be the strongest storm to hit 
 
 Guam in more than 60 years. 
 
(WEATHER REPORT) 
 <br>[14:35:00]
 
SOARES: Super storms will become more common when the oceans of the world heat up as ocean temperatures fuel storms. And according to a new study, 
 
 the Earth is about to get a lot hotter. 
 
The study published in the journal, "Nature Sustainability," found by the end of 2030, around 2 billion people will be facing average temperatures of 
 
 29 degrees Celsius. That's just outside the climate niche where humans can flourish. 
 
When the southwest U.S. historic deal to stave off a crisis of the Colorado River, California, Arizona and Nevada have agreed to cut billions of 
 
 gallons of river water usage over the next four years. 
 
The deal marks a major step after months of tense negotiations to save the river system, which provides water to more than 40 million people in the 
 
 West. CNN's Lucy Kafanov has the details for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LUCY KAFANOV, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A landmark deal to prevent the Colorado River crisis from worsening. The Biden administration striking 
 
 an agreement with California, Arizona and Nevada to cut at least 3 million acre feet of water from the river through 2026. 
 
BRONSON MACK, LAS VEGAS WATER DISTRICT PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER: This is the largest conservation agreement in the history of the Colorado River. So 
 
 it really is monumental. 
 
KAFANOV (voice-over): That's roughly 10 percent of the water supply those states rely on from the river. California plans to contribute more than 
 
 half of the allotted savings. 
 
SHON HIATT, UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA: Historically, this water has been extremely contentious. California was not going to give up its 
 
 seniority rights for water. So what I see today was quite historic in that California was willing to cede some of its water rights. 
 
KAFANOV (voice-over): The deal will cost the federal government at least $1.1 billion. It will be paid with funds from the Inflation Reduction Act. 
 
 Snaking across the Southwest and into Mexico, the Colorado River is the lifeblood of the region, supplying water to more than 40 million people 
 
 across seven states and 30 tribal nations. 
 
Major cities rely on the water, including Las Vegas, which gets nearly 90 percent of its water from the river. 
 
This deal comes at a critical juncture for the region, as water levels have been decreasing rapidly for nearly 20 years. Two of the largest reservoirs 
 
 in the nation, Lake Powell and Lake Mead, have seen water levels plummet close to so-called deadpools, which means water would no longer flow 
 
 through their dams. 
 
Record snow pack in the West, particularly in the Rocky Mountain region, provided some relief this year. 
 
WILL THELANDER, ARIZONA FARMER: We lost all of our water. 
 
KAFANOV (voice-over): But the drought has pushed farmers like Will Thelander to the brink. 
 
KAFANOV: Do you fear the future of farming in Arizona is under threat?
 
THELANDER: Yes. No one can produce it like the Colorado River can for food. It just -- nowhere on Earth is it done like that. So, yes, I'm really 
 
 worried. It's 50 years down the road unless we come up with solutions. Farming won't be here. 
 
KAFANOV: The deal is a significant breakthrough and one that comes after months of difficult negotiations and several missed deadlines. But experts 
 
 caution, it's a stopgap while a more permanent solution is found -- Lucy Kafanov, CNN, Denver. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SOARES: And still to come tonight, an ominous warning from the U.S. surgeon general. We'll tell you what he says is presenting a real danger for our 
 
 children. That is next.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:40:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
SOARES: This just in to CNN, a spokesperson for Florida governor Ron DeSantis says he will announce his presidential campaign on Wednesday in a 
 
 conversation with Twitter's Elon Musk. Congressional correspondent Jessica Dean joins me now. 
 
Jessica, what more are you learning about this and how it will be announced?
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This has been a long awaited, long talked about announcement. And now we are finally here with this news. That 
 
 spokesperson is telling me that governor Ron DeSantis will make it official with Elon Musk on what's known as Twitter Spaces sometime tomorrow evening, 
 
 around 6 pm Eastern time. 
 
And at this point, it's unclear exactly why they made that choice. But what I can tell you is that, in talking to people who are involved with his 
 
 political operation, they are very clear that they want to do things on their own terms. 
 
They want to make decisions and choices that benefit what they think are the real strengths of the Florida governor and the way he wants to run this 
 
 campaign. So this is certainly a place they feel is in line with that, they feel it makes a lot of sense. 
 
There has been so much talk around Ron DeSantis getting into this race. His chief rival, former president Donald Trump, got in months ago. Other rivals 
 
 have joined. Earlier this week, Tim Scott from South Carolina. 
 
But it's no question that DeSantis is the biggest name to get in after Trump. And you can tell simply by how much incoming he is taking before 
 
 even got into this race. We know he's going to be here in Miami in the next couple days, where he's going to gather his donors as they begin to really 
 
 ramp up the fundraising arm of this campaign. 
 
SOARES: Jessica, this will be announced tomorrow in this talk with Musk. 
 
Do we know whether Musk is going to endorse DeSantis here?
 
DEAN: I'm sorry; say it again, Isa. 
 
SOARES: I'm asking whether we know whether Musk is going to endorse DeSantis. 
 
DEAN: I'm having trouble hearing you. But I will tell you a little bit of additional information in that governor DeSantis has, of course, recently 
 
 won reelection in the state of Florida, which has turned ruby red. He had a resounding reelection. 
 
And he's been going all across the country in the weeks leading up to this announcement and the months really, leading up to this announcement, 
 
 talking about the Florida blueprint. 
 
He really thinks that he has a victory lap, that he can go and talk to people and really sell what he's done here in Florida as a way that he 
 
 could win across the country. He and his advisers believe they have a recipe for success and they have deliverables they can show people in the 
 
 various states of what he can get done. 
 
SOARES: Thanks very much. Jessica Dean in Miami, Florida. Of course we'll find out whether Musk endorsed DeSantis. That might come tomorrow. Thanks, 
 
 Jessica. 
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
SOARES: The candidate who came in third place in Turkiye's presidential election is now endorsing the incumbent, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 
 
 Sinan Ogan, a nationalist, won a little more than 5 percent of the vote on May 14, leading some analysts to call him a potential kingmaker for the 
 
 runoff. 
 
President Erdogan is looking to extend his rule and will be facing off against opposition candidate Kemal Kilicdaroglu this Sunday. 
 
And still to come tonight, a major setback for Prince Harry, as his security faces heightened scrutiny. Why the Duke of Sussex lost his latest 
 
 legal battle. That is next. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
SOARES: The top doctor in the U.S. is sounding the alarm about what social media is doing to our children. The U.S. surgeon general says we are in the 
 
 midst of a mental health crisis for young people and he thinks social media may be to blame. 
 
He issued a new public health advisory, detailing potential links between social media use as well as depression, anxiety and poor sleep habits. He's 
 
 urging more research to investigate the, quote, "profound risk" social media poses for children. Let's get more on this from our medical 
 
 correspondent, Meg Tirrell, with more. 
 
Meg, we've always known and spoken, I think, about the dangers of social media. So talk to us about what the evidence is, what he is warning about 
 
 here. 
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. The surgeon general is pointing out a lot of parents have questions about just how safe social 
 
 media is for kids when they are using it so frequently. 
 
They cite a study here showing that up to 95 percent of teenagers from the ages of 13 and 17 use social media. And even though the minimum age for a 
 
 lot of these sites is 13, as many as 40 percent of kids between 8 and 12 are on social media. 
 
And they looked at all of the available evidence on both the benefits and the risks and they saw some benefits, like creating communities, 
 
 particularly for marginalized kids. But the list of risks here is much longer. 
 
Connections to things like depression and anxiety, poor sleep, online harassment and low self esteem, the list really goes on here. So they are 
 
 calling on policymakers to make changes.
 
And they're especially calling on tech companies to be more transparent about the data they have, share that with independent researchers, so we 
 
 can get a better handle on what's happening here. 
 
SOARES: And for parents watching this, wanting advice, how can they protect their kids from this, from mental health. 
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
SOARES: And all the risks, the profound risks of harm here? 
 
TIRRELL: This is something I asked the surgeon general. 
 
What is he doing with his own kids?
 
They're only 5 and 6 at this point. But he said they are already making a plan and that's something they recommend, having a family plan around this. 
 
 He personally is going to delay use of social media until his kids are in high school. 
 
But they say, of course, for kids who are already on it, create tech free zones, particularly around dinnertime or bedtime. Encourage in-person 
 
 friendships. We ourselves can model responsible social media behavior and teach kids about technology. All of these things, just talking about it is 
 
 so important. 
 
SOARES: It's important for parents of, course to know exactly how to handle it and what to do. But social media companies, and you touched on this 
 
 briefly, they too play a role here. They too have responsibility. 
 
TIRRELL: Yes, absolutely. There's been a lot of pressure ratcheting up on them. They are aware of that. They have websites out there guiding parents 
 
 and families about how to use these things for their kids safely. 
 
But the pressure is not going to stop. This advisory is really designed to increase the pressure on these companies, to have them do more and be more 
 
 transparent with the data they already have. 
 
SOARES: Yes, as a mother of two young kids, I can tell, you I too am worried. Meg, thanks very much. We appreciate it. 
 
Now a legal loss for Britain's Prince Harry. London's high court has ruled the Duke of Sussex cannot privately pay for police security while in the 
 
 U.K. 
 
After losing his publicly funded protection when he stepped down from royal duties, the prince requested to pay out of his own funds but the U.K. home 
 
 office proposed the idea that wealthy individuals can buy security from the police. 
 
It's only the latest in a string of lawsuits the prince is pursuing. Anna Stewart joins me now with more. 
 
You and I were talking about this and makeup room. 
 
Why can't he pay for it?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Listen, there are two sides to this. On the one side, Prince Harry was born into the royal family. He cannot help 
 
 being a security risk. He has decided to leave the U.K. 
 
But if he wants to visit, home he is a security risk. He believes he should have police protection from the U.K. and that protection can't really be 
 
 matched by anything you can hire privately in terms of U.S. security firms. 
 
On the other side of it, this is a couple who are making a lot of money, doing big media tours, books about their lives. 
 
Can they not fund their own security?
 
And the other argument being, if you allow them to pay for the protection, what about other wealthy individuals?
 
Do you open up a whole can of worms?
 
SOARES: But he's not an individual; he is a prince. He was born into this. My argument is, he ought to have it because his status is completely 
 
 different. And we saw last week in New York what that garnered. 
 
Will he be appealing this?
 
STEWART: He may well appeal. And this isn't the end of the line on this. So this was only the bitter overturn or challenge decision about paying the 
 
 police himself. There is still a bid to challenge a decision by the home office to pull taxpayer piece protection altogether. 
 
So that one is still ongoing, as are multiple cases regarding U.K. tabloid papers. Prince Harry is fighting concurrently many different lawsuits at 
 
 this stage. So it's not the end of the story. 
 
There was an instance in the summer of 2021, when paparazzi or photographers chased a car Harry was leaving a charity event. You will have 
 
 noticed the Duchess of Sussex and her children do not come to the U.K. nearly as regularly Prince Harry, most recently for the coronation.
 
And while we saw that part of that is probably to do with security concerns, this was first and foremost in their minds when they decided to 
 
 step down. 
 
How is this going to work out?
 
How are they stay -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SOARES: So on that point, when he does visit with his family, what kind of protection is going to get?
 
He's going to have to pay for it. That's going to be very expensive as well. 
 
STEWART: You have to pay for it. But he has to pay for it in the U.S. They are living a lifestyle where they have to pay for their own security. 
 
Now if they come to the U.K. as part of a huge set piece official royal event like a coronation or a big funeral, in that case, they get included 
 
 with a broader security arrangement because that is part of the royal families' arrangements as well. 
 
If they are here for their own private matters, for their visits to charities, then they have to pay for themselves. They are happy to do, it 
 
 but they say the security they can hire just doesn't match the U.K. police force in terms of the intel. 
 
SOARES: Right. I have a feeling that you and I will be talking about this on many more occasions. Anna Stewart, thank you so much. 
 
(SPORTS) 
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
SOARES: A Michigan highway became the set for a wild west scene when a runaway cow dodged traffic to escape the grasp of cowboys on horseback. 
 
Anna, you're still with me. Watch this. 
 
A rider can be seen trying to lasso the wayward steer as he lashes down a freeway near Detroit. The cow, yes, it does have a name. It is named 
 
 Lester. Had been on the run for weeks before officers jumped in to assist the wranglers and capture the fugitive. The state police said the bovine 
 
 was not charged. That's a direct quote there. 
 
It was not charged and is back in pasture with a story to tell all the other livestock. Anna to my right is giggling. 
 
And that does it for us tonight. Do stay right here, "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" with Richard Quest is up next.
 
END