Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Biden To Visit Poland As Anniversary Of Ukraine War Nears; Blinken Refused To Apologize For U.S. Shooting Down Chinese Spy Balloon; Former U.S. President Carter Receiving Hospice Care At Home. Aired 3-4p ET

Aired February 19, 2023 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
PAULA REID, CNN HOST: FDA says the recall began on January 28th and is ongoing. The next hour of CNN NEWSROOM starts right now.
 <br>[15:00:08]
 
Hello, thanks for joining me. I'm Paula Reid, in for Fredricka Whitfield.
 
We begin this hour with President Biden preparing for a high-stakes overseas trip. Tomorrow, he will travel to Poland to mark the grim one-year anniversary of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Biden will head to the region to shore up support for Ukraine among Western allies, and send a message to the Kremlin that the US and its NATO allies will support Ukraine as long as it takes.
 
It comes as the US is accusing Russia of committing crimes against humanity. The declaration marks the strongest accusation yet from the US as it seeks to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD, US AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS: We declared from day one that they were committing war crimes. We've announced that they are committing crimes against humanity and we are looking at the facts on the ground.
 
I had an opportunity to visit a forensic lab that we are supporting and helping them to gather the evidence that they will need and we will need to hold the Russians accountable.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID: We have correspondents covering this for us at the White House and on the ground in Ukraine. Let's begin with coverage from Priscilla Alvarez at the White House.
 
Priscilla, what are the expectations for the President's trip to Poland.
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: White House officials have made clear, Paula, this is a crucial moment, not only because of that one year anniversary, which is just around the corner, but also as US and Western officials warn of a potential offensive by Russia in the next few weeks or months.
 
So President Biden is going into this visit to Poland to reinforce support among allies, and he is expected to meet with the Polish President, as well as meet with a group of eastern flank NATO allies.
 
And also during this visit, he is going to give remarks, and during those remarks, White House officials say he is going to be speaking to the American people, to the world, and to Russia. We got a sense a little bit about what Poland is expecting in all of this from the Polish Prime Minister. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATEUSZ MORAWIECKI, POLISH PRIME MINISTER: You have to change the paradigm and we have to say Ukraine must win and Russia must be defeated, and I believe that words of President Biden will reassure all Europe that the United States is with us in this fight for freedom and peace.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVAREZ: Now, we do expect Biden to do just that and shoring up support among allies, but we also have a sense of the tone, with as you mentioned, Vice President Kamala Harris saying just yesterday that Russia has committed crimes against humanity, a step further from war crimes, as they have said in the past.
 
But look, urgency is important here and the Ukrainian President Zelenskyy said during the Munich Security Conference last week that the allies need to speed up, urgency is key. And National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications, John Kirby said Biden isn't expected to go to Ukraine, but he also expects him to shore up those allies. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ADM. JOHN KIRBY (RET), COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS AT THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL: We're going to continue to use our convening power to marshal the world to galvanize support for Ukraine, but there are no plans for the President to enter into Ukraine on this particular trip.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALVAREZ: Again, Paula, this is a trip that starts tomorrow and it is going to be key as Ukraine hits that one year anniversary.
 
REID: Priscilla Alvarez, thank you.
 
Let's bring in CNN's Sam Kiley, who is in Ukraine.
 
Sam, what are you hearing about the visit from people there in Ukraine?
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, there is a great deal of hope that perhaps President Biden might even slip into Ukraine, now, that is, given the presidential security issues pretty unlikely, as John Kirby was saying there. But it is the sort of visit that would be an enormous morale boost, not least because this issue of alacrity, the need to get weapons, modern weapon systems into the battlefield on the side of Ukraine is getting more and more urgent.
 
That is the view now, I think, of the international community that has been from the Ukrainian perspective, Paula, rather slow in its response to understand the urgency and the graphic need that Ukraine has of modern weapons, because ultimately, the West until very recently, at least, was not sure whether or not they really wanted to see Russia defeated definitively in Ukraine.
 
That now seems to be a growing consensus in NATO and in the European Union, that that might be likely. This is what the Chief European official said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSEP BORRELL, EUROPEAN UNION FOREIGN POLICY CHIEF: Zelenskyy and Ukrainians have a lot of applause, but not enough ammunition. That's the paradox. They need to be less applauded and better supplied with arms.
 <br>[15:05:00]
 
BORRELL: Ukrainians are fighting, paying the highest price in terms of lives, but this will happen to Europeans soil, affects us and has a global impact around the world, which also affects our security.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KILEY: Now, Secretary Blinken the other day also said that this was a war that had a global effect, saying that of course, if the Russians were able to prevail here and continuing to hold a chunk of Ukrainian territory, that would encourage other countries that lay claim, would simply desire to invade neighbors or other countries around the world, so it could be a deeply destabilizing result here.
 
If you combine that with what the European Union is now saying, you are looking albeit from the Ukrainian perspective, Paula, much too late a growing consensus that the Ukrainians need weapons, need them urgently and need them because the idea of Ukraine winning in the sense that getting all of Russian troops out of Ukrainian territory, lock, stock and barrel, including the Crimea is now becoming much more of a forged policy outside of Ukraine. It hasn't always been that way -- Paula.
 
REID: And Priscilla, you have new reporting about Ukrainian refugees in the US. Tell us about that.
 
ALVAREZ: While remember, Poland was also critical in this effort as millions of Ukrainians fled, and eventually some of them hundreds of thousands of them came to the United States.
 
Now, if you recall, there was a time where when we were speaking to Ukrainian refugees, they thought that the war would be over soon, and they would be able to return to Ukraine in a short period of time. In fact, I have spoken to Ukrainian refugees who told me, they arrived to the US with just summer clothes, expecting that they were going to be back by the fall or winter.
 
And now a year later, they are still here and they are setting roots there. They were able to do so through a humanitarian parole program that the United States has set up for them to be here for two-year periods.
 
Now, of course, one year in that is already causing some stress and concern about what happens within the next year as this war continues in Ukraine, and many of them are looking to see what their options are, whether they have other legal pathways to stay in the US or renew or extend that parole status that allows them to be here temporarily and to work here temporarily.
 
But, Paula, there is no doubt among the Ukrainian refugees that I've spent the last few days talking to here in the United States that they are emotional about the fact this war is ongoing, that they may have to stay in a country they never thought they would have to move to -- Paula.
 
REID: Priscilla Alvarez and Sam Kiley, thank you.
 
Today on CNN, the US Ambassador to the UN said China would cross a red line by providing lethal aid to Russia for its war in Ukraine. Secretary of State Tony Blinken also raised the issue with his Chinese counterpart during a meeting on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference, and warned the Chinese that increasing support for Russia could damage its relationship with the US.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: To date, we have seen Chinese companies and of course, in China, there is really no distinction between private companies and the state, we have seen them provide non-lethal support to Russia for use in Ukraine.
 
The concern that we have now is based on information we have that they are considering providing lethal support, and we have made very clear to them that that would cause a serious problem for us and in our relationship.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID: CNN's Will Ripley has more on the growing tension between the US and China.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The two big issues touched on by the top diplomats of the US and China on the sidelines of a global security conference in Germany were the ones that pretty much are dominating the news right now, the suspected spy balloon and Russia's war on Ukraine, specifically Chinese support for Russia. This meeting happened just hours after Beijing's top diplomat, Wang Yi, accused the US of being hysterical and absurd, and saying that the US needs to repair damage to its relationship with China for using, in his words, excessive force against that suspected spy balloon that spent seven days hovering over the US.
 
The US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, of course, not apologizing, the Chinese not apologizing either. Blinken condemned the incursion and he stressed that it must never happen again.
 
He also warned China about another issue of growing concern in the Biden administration and this is suspicions that China may be considering upping its support for Vladimir Putin's unprovoked war on Ukraine, using what the United States has called lethal support, not just you know, buying products from the Russians to help bolster the economy, but you know, outright helping them get around sanctions or the US has said even going up to the level of providing weapons.
 
Secretary Blinken saying that that will have very serious consequences in the US China relationship.
 
The Chinese, you know, basically just saying that some forces without mentioning the US by name, don't want negotiations between Ukraine and Russia to succeed and don't want to see the war end.
 
Now, this meeting came two weeks after Secretary Blinken postponed his trip to Beijing. That's because the balloon entered US airspace the day before he was supposed to go there. It would have been the first meeting in five years between the two top diplomats of the US and China in Beijing.
 <br>[15:10:08]
 
RIPLEY: Blinken was also supposed to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping, a meeting that the US and China both felt was very important to stabilize this fraught relationship and a meeting that has not been canceled out right, just postponed.
 
This diplomacy in Germany, perhaps a crucial first step in getting talks and diplomacy back up and running.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
REID: Will Ripley, thank you.
 
Let's bring in Colonel Cedric Leighton. He is a CNN military analyst and a retired US Air Force Colonel.
 
All right, President Biden is heading to Poland this week to mark the one year anniversary since Russia invaded Ukraine. What message does Ukraine need to hear from President Biden on this trip?
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, Paula, the Ukrainians need to hear unwavering support from the United States, especially from President Biden, and I'm pretty sure President Biden will give them that.
 
They also need to have some reassurance that the United States is going to support them diplomatically and militarily and continue the aid that has been flowing to Ukraine through Poland, in large part during the course of this conflict. So that's the main thing that they want to hear, and of course, if the President can actually put his feet on the ground in Ukraine, that would be an extra bonus at this point.
 
REID: And Vice President Kamala Harris, at the Security Conference, declaring the US will hold Russia accountable for war crimes in Ukraine. How important was it to hear that from the Vice President?
 
LEIGHTON: I think it was significant and really important because it shows that there is a legal component to this war, to this conflict. One of the key elements here is that, you know, when you have a war of this type, often the legal aspect of it gets lost in the actual fighting, but what Vice President Harris did was it made sure that the Russians knew that they were being watched for human rights violations. The Ukrainians, of course, have special prosecutors that are looking at violations such as those that occurred in places like Irpin and Bucha.
 
But the key thing to think about here is that this may mean consequences for Russian political and military leaders at the end of this war whenever that occurs.
 
REID: Now, I want you to have a listen to what Republican Congressman Mike McCaul told CNN's "State of the Union" earlier today about US military aid. Let's take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MICHAEL MCCAUL (R-TX): For the past year, we've been very slow at getting these weapons in in the name of a being too provocative, whether it be stingers, javelins, these short range artillery. Now, longer range artillery attack guns, they can take out the Iranian drones in Crimea, and also aviation like F-16.
 
If we put this stuff in from the very beginning of this conflict, a year from now may have been very different as we look at the anniversary on February 24th. The longer they drag this out, they play into Putin's hands. He wants this to be a long protracted war, because he knows that potentially, he will lose -- we could lose the will of the American people and therefore the Congress.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID: Doesn't McCaul have a point there that an influx of more sophisticated weapons could end things quickly?
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, to a point - to an extent he does, actually, and the key thing here though, is the training that has to go with these kinds of systems. Paula, it becomes really important to -- you know, if you give somebody an F-16, they've got to know how to fly it, they've got to know how to arm it, they've got to know how to use it in a way that is most effective and that is going to be the critical thing.
 
Now, the training for a weapon system like that needs to weigh in advance of delivery and you know, they're moving in that direction, but they really haven't done enough of the training for flight crews to prepare them for something like the F-16.
 
The tank crews also, you know, they're getting the Abrams and the Leopard tanks. Those need training as well. So it's going to take a while for these weapon systems not only to get to Ukraine, but to be employed by highly trained effective crews and that will make a difference.
 
You know, unfortunately, the clock is more on the Russian side than it is on the Ukrainian side at this juncture.
 
REID: And Senator Lindsey Graham called for F-16 pilot training to begin for Ukrainian fighters, even though no one has committed jets to Ukraine, would that really be a good use of resources right now?
 
LEIGHTON: Well, it depends. We would have to have a plan in place to actually give them F-16s if we're going to train them on that kind of a weapons platform. You know, the British are of course training them on NATO standard fighter aircraft, which does include the F-16, also includes the Typhoon. So there are other aircraft that could potentially be used.
 
So we have to have a well-thought out plan before we do that kind of thing, but training should definitely occur. We should figure out exactly what platform we're going to give the Ukrainians before we embark on that training just so that it gets the most bang for the buck, both literally and figuratively.
 <br>[15:15:12]
 
REID: I want to follow up on something you said earlier, just about the length of this conflict. There is a longer war, given advantage to Russia and Putin.
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, it most certainly does, Paula. And unfortunately, the Russians have time on their side, they have manpower on their side, they have weapons supplies in the form of ammunition on their side and they also have a fairly docile population that is not rising up against this war, at least not in large measure at this point in time.
 
So the Russians can kind of wait us out here and the weakness of Western democracies has historically been that they kind of lose interest in conflicts like this. This one might be a little bit different, because it is right on Europe's doorstep, but Western democracies have to continue to pay attention to what's going on in Ukraine and they have to continue to support this effort if they don't want this fighting to occur in their country, on their land.
 
REID: And the US is also raising concerns over China's support for Russia in the war. So far, China hasn't supplied the so-called lethal support, but could that change? LEIGHTON: It most certainly could. The one thing, Paula, that we have to remember is that Russia and China have an Intelligence sharing agreement with each other. They also exchange technology, they also exchanged weapons systems. They build aircraft collectively.
 
So there is a military relationship, but there are diplomatic, of course, relationships with them. And they have what they call an undying friendship between the two countries. So they are a very dangerous combination for the West and it is very possible that the Chinese will try to circumvent any sanctions that are placed against them and against Russia, so we could very well see lethal aid going to the Ukrainian front by the Chinese, being provided by the Chinese and that, of course, could be dangerous for the Ukrainians.
 
REID: And I'm curious to get your take on that meeting between Antony Blinken and his counterpart, following the takedown of that China surveillance balloon. What do you make of this meeting?
 
LEIGHTON: Well, very interesting. I'm glad it happened.
 
I think it's very important for China in the US in spite of their differences, to meet at the highest diplomatic level, and when Secretary Blinken met with Wang Yi, his Chinese counterpart, that it was not really a thawing in relations, but what it was, Paula, was the opening of a door where at least there's dialogue between these two major powers.
 
You know, we won't like everything that the Chinese do. They won't like everything that we do. But it's going to be really important to keep that dialogue going not only because of what's happening in Ukraine, but also what could potentially happen with Taiwan.
 
REID: Colonel, thank you.
 
LEIGHTON: Thank you, Paula. Anytime.
 
REID: And still ahead, how residents in Jimmy Carter's beloved town of Plains, Georgia are reacting to the former President beginning hospice care.
 
Plus, officials in Ohio say the water in East Palestine should be safe after the train derailment there. Do residents feel reassured? We'll ask one resident about his concerns and his family's connection to a movie about a fictional, but eerily similar incident.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:22:34]
 
REID: We are also monitoring the health of former President Jimmy Carter. He is now receiving hospice care in his Georgia home. The former peanut farmer turned politician is 98 years old.
 
His family says he opted for in-home care after a series of short hospital stays.
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales is in Carter's hometown Plains, Georgia.
 
Isabel, what more do we know about Carter's condition at this time?
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We wish we had more information to tell, but the family understandably is asking for privacy at this time, Paula.
 
We do have however, a statement from the Carter Center in which they say: "After a series of short hospital stays, former US President Jimmy Carter today decided to spend his remaining time at home with his family and receive hospice care instead of additional medical intervention. He has the full support of his family and his medical team."
 
Paula, right now, I am on Main Street here in his hometown of Plains, Georgia and it's just incredible, whichever way you turn, 360, there is Jimmy Carter history everywhere you go. Half a mile away from Main Street is the hospital where he was born becoming the first US President to be born inside of a hospital.
 
And as we make our way over here to this road. Around the corner is where his wife Rosalynn was born, this road renamed the Rosalynn Carter Trail. And as we move back over here toward the Plaza, deeper in there, you will see where his father owned and operated a peanut business until his death, which Jimmy then took over.
 
Carter strongly identifies with his southern roots, and in fact, his family has been in Georgia since the 1700s. And today, Carter still lives in the same home that he built back in 1961. He clearly grew up in a different era, growing up during the Great Depression the home that he lived in, his childhood home. He had no electricity, no running water, indoor plumbing rather through his teenage years.
 
But this town right here, Plains, this shaped the ethics, the principles that really followed Rosalynn and Carter throughout the rest of their lives. They never forgot who they were or where they came from, and it is clear Paula, that Plaines, the community here, their neighbors love them just as deeply. Take a listen.
 <br>[15:25:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PHILIP KURLAND, OWNER, PLAINS TRADING POST: President Carter is supposed to live forever, that is why I didn't believe that -- I mean, when I was sick, he sat with me for an hour.
 
When we moved here, I didn't know if I really believed that he lived here and they came marching in to welcome us to the community and they never stopped coming.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: We also have this tweet I want to show you from Jason Carter, a former one-time Democratic State Senator here in Georgia, also Carter's grandson. He tweeted out that he spent time with his grandparents on Friday and said: "They are at peace and as always, their home is full of love," -- Paula.
 
REID: Isabel Rosales, thank you.
 
And it's been more than two weeks since the Norfolk Southern train derailed in East Palestine, Ohio causing a toxic chemical spill and leaving residents concerned for their health. Environmental tests are still underway, and while the air and water have been deemed safe, many residents aren't convinced. Some have complained of a lingering chemical stench and adverse reactions like headaches and rashes.
 
This morning, Ohio Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown had this to say about their concerns.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. SHERROD BROWN (D-OH): They are right to be skeptical. The EPA administrator, when I was there, both the State and the Federal EPA administrators said that, but when you return to your home, we think the water is safe. And when you return to your home, you should be tested again for your water and your soil and your air, not to mention those that have their own wells.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: With me now to discuss is Ben Ratner, who lives a less than a mile from the crash site.
 
Ben, thank you so much for joining us today. First off, I want to get your response to what you just heard the Senator say this morning.
 
BEN RATNER, EAST PALESTINE, OHIO RESIDENT: Yes, thank you, Paula. Thanks for having me.
 
Yes, so whenever things were happening early on, Sherrod Brown was one of the first representatives to reach out at River Valley Action. He sent one of his representatives there and had a mini Town Hall, about eight to 10 of us there and took our notes. And I think he is really capturing a mix of feelings.
 
There is a lot of modal verbiage that is going on where we think might be potentially, and things like that people are leaving a lot of wiggle room for themselves. And besides the air being monitored, which is not as sensitive equipment, it should be sampled.
 
And we saw an article come out yesterday, an interview with a Johns Hopkins Professor, where he is saying there should be three sites set up with this air sampling, and also the soil where it is much more that we thought early on.
 
REID: And you and your family evacuated after the crash. So where are you now?
 
RATNER: So we stayed about nine days away from our home. We did get the air tested before we went back and we're back at home now.
 
It's hard because this type of community, everybody is very deeply rooted. My wife certainly has been there for three or four generations. There are people in town that are living in their grandmother's childhood home. My kids play three or four sports, I coach the high school soccer team. So it's really hard to kind of just turn our back and leave.
 
Also, there are people much closer that I think took on smoke in their houses that need to have surface testing. There are people south of us that have wells that the testing is getting backed up, and not all of them are getting tested in an efficient manner.
 
So I mean, before this happened, I feel like you know, people -- the tagline is the place where you want to be, and so I think it is hard for people to really justify that right now, but we're trying to stick it out and continue to fight for and keep our eyes on the situation.
 
REID: Of course, well, given how the cleanup and the response has been, how comfortable are you now that you're home? Do you have any reservations about staying there?
 
RATNER: So as far as our home goes, I think the biggest worry would be particulate and things like that that might have rained down on the house or come in with our shoes. So we're very diligent about taking our shoes off, wiping down surfaces with water dump bleach before we got in there, changing air filters. We did get the VOCs tested.
 
You know, there is a lot with the location itself where the wreck is, and they are saying some of the things that people that are familiar with the situation, some of the things we're using to clean as well could be acetone-based, and those might be more of the fumes that people are continuing to smell.
 
I was there on Thursday with a news crew and they say it's safe. So, we're looking -- or we were trying to take pictures and when trains come by, the smell got so much worse. We actually had burning eyes, burning throats. I had a headache that lasted about eight to nine hours and it is really something that needs to be looked into a lot more.
 
REID: Yes. The CEO Alan Shaw, the CEO of Norfolk Southern says they are working closely to formulate a long-term plan for cleanup and that he is determined to earn residents' trust.
 
In a statement they said: "We are working closely with the Ohio Environmental and Health Agencies on a long-term plan to protect the environment and the community. We're going to do the work thoroughly, completely, and safely."
 
How does how does that resonate with you and your community? And do you trust that?
 <br>[15:30:10]
 
RATNER: I think there are multiple situations here. One is, the person in charge of the wreck is also in charge of the cleanup. The cleanup was done before the EPA released how they wanted this cleanup to happen. That was released on the 10th. It's part of the Superfund Legislation, where EPA has to release how they want things done. It was already done, things were already rolling before that happened.
 
Also, there are a few things that are interesting, as far as the background of some of these businesses. You know, the railroad company outsources the cleanup. There's this company, Artes, out of Holland, they have locations in the US and offices. One of their Vice Presidents just a few years ago got convicted and charged for fraudulent invoicing where they were extrapolating some of the things that they were doing and saying they were doing a lot more work than what they were doing.
 
Obviously, he was removed from the company, he is not there, but that is kind of like a little bit of insight into the type of company that is cleaning up the area. That doesn't give me any -- you know, there's definitely some cause for concern.
 
And also, I met Anne Vogel from the EPA -- State EPA, she was very nice and she came to our Town Hall and met with people. She was looking people in the eye and she was really trying to help out.
 
I looked into her background, she has an MBA. She has a Master of Business. She's an attorney for an electric company before this, and I don't see how an attorney is supposed to be cleaning up an environmental issue. And so, a lot of these people are in over their heads and I don't think there's enough help early on from the State government. And definitely, we are how many days into this? Two weeks? And we're just not getting Federal help, too. So, there's a lot of levels.
 
REID: We had an expert on earlier who also questioned the State's response. But I also want to ask you about something, I guess, fun, if there's anything fun in this context.
 
You were an extra in the movie, "White Noise," which is about a family's escape from a "airborne toxic event" after a freight train collision sends dangerous toxins into the town. That experience has now become your reality. It's pretty wild, right?
 
RATNER: Yes. I think it's interesting. I think it's interesting that there are a lot of similarities early on in the film, which was a book before that. It kind of takes a turn, that it's only about 15 to 20 minutes' worth of the movie, and it kind of becomes the fallout of the situation and how the family is impacted by their own personal struggles, as well as dealing with the evacuation.
 
So I think after the first third of the movie, it veers off from our situation, but the beginning is very uncanny. It's an interesting situation. It was really just something fun to do in the area that was tied into something that was, you know, cultural and kind of, you know, Noah Baumbach is a really -- you know, he is an interesting director, and I thought it would be cool to be an extra on that.
 
And I never would have thought this would mimic a situation in real life and it would happen in our little town.
 
REID: All right, well, I'm sorry that this has become real life, but thank you so much for joining us and sharing your story and your experience with the government with the corporations here. We truly appreciate it.
 
RATNER: Yes, thank you for covering it, and my heart goes out to President Carter's family as well. Thank you for having me on.
 
REID: Still ahead, new evidence of America's persistent gun violence problem. The latest on a string of shootings in various cities this weekend, including one at a Georgia gas station that led to nine children getting hurt, and in Los Angeles, a Catholic Bishop shot to death.
 
A live report, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:38:00]
 
REID: A new wave of gun violence highlighting America's persistent gun problem just days after President Biden said "enough" following a shooting in Mississippi. This weekend, there have been at least six shooting incidents in five cities across the US, the violence impacting children, a university police officer, and a Catholic Bishop.
 
CNN's Camila Bernal joins us now.
 
Camila, what are you learning about these shootings?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Paula. Yes, unfortunately, violence from coast-to-coast.
 
I'll start with Memphis, Tennessee authorities. They're saying they responded to a shooting at a lounge. This happened at around 12:45 this morning. They believe two separate shootings all connected where 10 people were injured and at least one of them was killed. Authorities looking for the suspect in that case.
 
Moving on to Columbus, Georgia. You mentioned children being involved in one of these shootings. At least nine children were injured. Authorities there saying that there was a party where minors were just together, then they went to this gas station and that is where the shooting took place.
 
All of these children ranging in ages from five to 17, and in this case, again, no suspect. They have not arrested the person responsible for all of this. The authorities are trying to figure out exactly what happened.
 
And now in Philadelphia, we know that a Temple Police officer was shot and killed as he was trying to stop a robbery. In that case, authorities were able to arrest the person they believe is responsible for that shooting.
 
And finally moving on to Los Angeles, the community here in shock and mourning the death of a Catholic Bishop. Authorities saying that they are investigating this as a murder. This is Bishop David O'Connell. He was shot and killed and the Archbishop saying that he is shocked and saddened by the death of this Bishop.
 <br>[15:40:03]
 
BERNAL: The Archbishop in Los Angeles saying that David O'Connell had been a priest and a Bishop here in Los Angeles for about 45 years, saying he was a man of deep prayer, someone who cared deeply about the poor and the immigrant community here in Los Angeles.
 
So there are many in this community that are in shock and mourning the loss of this Bishop and in this case, also, no suspect has been arrested.
 
So again, we're waiting for authorities to tell us exactly what happened and whether or not they believe they will find the person responsible -- Paula.
 
REID: Camila Bernal, thank you.
 
And still ahead, South Carolina in the political spotlight. Nikki Haley is running for President and Senator Tim Scott could soon join her. Next, we head to Charleston to see how residents feel about their chances.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LARRY KOBROVSKY, REPUBLICAN CHARLESTON COUNTY COUNCIL MEMBER: Makes you feel pride because both of them are legitimate contenders, and you could imagine either them being President.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:45:06]
 
REID: The Republican presidential primary is starting to take shape. Former South Carolina Governor and UN Ambassador Nikki Haley making it official last week, but others may also be eyeing a run for the White House and including fellow South Carolinian, Senator Tim Scott, who is speaking this week in Iowa.
 
So how do people in South Carolina feel about having two potential candidates in the race?
 
CNN's Gary Tuchman went down to Charleston to find out.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GARY TUCHMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A packed ballroom with many of South Carolina's Republican movers and shakers.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm retired. I used to be a banker. I made other people rich.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): This is the City and County of Charleston, South Carolina, the occasion the Fifth Annual Black History Month Banquet sponsored by the County Republican Party, the keynote speaker South Carolina Republican US Senator, Tim Scott.
 
SEN. TIM SCOTT (R-SC): See my story is the American story.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): And Scott's story could soon include running for President.
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I am running for President of the United States of America.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): His fellow South Carolinian, former Governor Nikki Haley already is.
 
These Republicans in the Palmetto State are enjoying the attention.
 
ROGER SULLIVAN, SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN: And we were definitely a Trump state and I think people still have great deal of feeling for him, but then there's Baby Nikki. She decided she's going to run and there's a lot of passion for her, too.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): Larry Kobrovsky is a Republican Charleston County Council member.
 
KOBROVSKY: Well, it makes you feel pride because both of them are legitimate contenders, and you can imagine either of them being President.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): And indeed, a number of Republicans we talked to here are ready to commit to one of their fellow South Carolinians.
 
ALESHA DEAN, SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN: I love Tim Scott. I just feel like he's got our best interests at heart.
 
UNIDENTIFIED BOY: That's true.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): But not necessarily on the top of the ticket.
 
TUCHMAN (on camera): If you could set your own ticket, who would you vote for, for President, sir?
 
JOHN LUNN, SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN: DeSantis and Haley would be Vice President? Or DeSantis and Tim Scott would be Vice President.
 
GLENN DILL, SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN: My suspicion is that the one that will be electable will be DeSantis.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): But Mark Knapp, a lifelong Charlestonian still thinks Donald Trump can win and is ready to vote for him again.
 
MARK KNAPP, SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN: I don't know if Nikki has really got what it takes to deal with the swamp.
 
TUCHMAN (on camera): What about Tim Scott, if he announced he is running for President?
 
KNAPP: I liked him a lot. But I haven't seen the demeanor I think it's going to take the wrestlers with scallywags in Washington. TUCHMAN (voice over): There are some Democrats who came to this gala to celebrate Black History Month, but most everyone else we talked to didn't vote for Donald Trump twice. However, we met quite a few who are looking for a fresh face.
 
TUCHMAN (on camera): Would you vote for Trump again?
 
ROSS WARD, SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN: Trump is divisive. He is -- he continues to play divisive politics cards end he hasn't grown up since.
 
KEVIN MCFADDEN, SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN: I don't think I'm on the side of leaning towards where we've been. I am more focused on leaders of presenting new opportunities and where we could go from here.
 
TUCHMAN: Does that mean that you're not leaning towards voting for Donald Trump?
 
MCFADDEN: That's -- that would be my personal preference. Yes.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): Not surprisingly, at this early stage, the majority of people we talked to say they are not sure who they will vote for yet.
 
JAMIE ROBINSON, SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN: I've been a Republican since 1988, and I was a freshman in college. So, I am very dedicated to the party.
 
TUCHMAN (on camera): But you don't know which Republican you like just yet.
 
ROBINSON: Too soon.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): And that's what the Chair of this County's Republican Party Maurice Washington likes to hear. He wants this campaign to be a competition, not a coronation.
 
MAURICE WASHINGTON, CHARLESTON COUNTY GOP: This is not going to be, let's park to see and allow the former President to walk through.
 
TUCHMAN (voice over): The South Carolina Republican presidential primary is just over a year away.
 
Gary Tuchman, CNN, Charleston, South Carolina.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
REID: Coming up, it is All-Star Weekend in Utah and tonight, the NBA's best will face off in an All-Star game. Will it live up to last night's Wild Dunk Contest.
 
We are live in Salt Lake City, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:53:37] REID: All-Star Weekend is in full swing in Utah, and it delivered an incredible story last night. A guy who went viral when he was in high school is now the NBA slam dunk champ.
 
CNN Sports anchor, Andy Scholes is live in Salt Lake City.
 
Andy, what more can you tell us?
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN WORLD SPORT: Well, you know, Paula, fans were looking at this year's dunk contest on paper, I mean, it was a little underwhelming. You know, there weren't many big star names, but Mac McClung putting on an all-time great performance certainly making a name for himself, Mac of the 2022 G League Rookie of the Year, he has only played at two NBA games in his career.
 
He was actually signed by the 76ers earlier this week and in his first dunk, the crowd was just going crazy. He jumped over a guy that was sitting on a guy's shoulder tapped the backboard, had the reverse dunk. That was one of his three perfect dunks on the night, and he had everyone just in awe again with his final dunk spinning to win the competition.
 
You know Mac is from Gate City, Virginia, a town of just 2,000 people. He has been a sensation on YouTube since high school for all of his amazing dunks. Now, he is trying to latch on in the NBA. I caught up with him last night after winning the competition to ask how does it feel to be the 2023 Dunk Champion.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAC MCCLUNG, 2023 NBA SLAM DUNK CHAMPION: I feel a lot of gratitude. I had a lot of help and the crowd was really amazing tonight. It was a blessing.
 <br>[15:55:02]
 
MCCLUNG: It's really cool man. I mean, I'll be able to tell my kids and brag about it one day, but yes, the goal is to play in the NBA and I'm going to keep working every day. I'm very hungry and I'm resilient. So I'm going to keep working.
 
SCHOLES: Michael Jordan, Kobe Bryant, Vince Carter, Mac McClung. How does it feel to have your name amongst those greats?
 
MCCLUNG: I don't think it has really set in yet. It's all been a blur.
 
I feel like I was out there for 30 seconds and I'm back, but I'm grateful, man.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: And here is hoping tonight's game is as good as the dunk contest and make sure to tune in early because for the first time ever, they are going to be drafting the teams right before tip-off.
 
LeBron and Giannis are going to be making the picks, so it should be lots of fun. It all gets started, the coverage on our sister station TNT at 6:00 Eastern and you know, Paula, All-Star Weekend is always of course much more than just the basketball events. There are things going on all weekend long.
 
We're at the Bleacher Report event here in Salt Lake City, B/R Utah. So many fun things for fans to do, like play some basketball, and this big concert leading up to the game.
 
REID: Looks like a blast.
 
Andy Scholes, thank you so much.
 
And thanks for joining me today. I'm Paula Reid.
 
CNN NEWSROOM continues with Jim Acosta right after this break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:00:00]