Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Nearly 10,000 Dead As Toll Rises, Search Intensifies For Survivors; Zelenskyy Makes First Visit To U.K. Since Russia's Invasion; LeBron James Breaks NBA's All-Time Scoring Record, Passing Kareem. Aired 5:30-6a ET

Aired February 08, 2023 - 05:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[05:33:00]
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR:  This morning crews are racing, trying to find survivors in Turkey and Syria as the death toll from that devastating earthquake rises to nearly 10,000. Rescue workers are struggling to reach some of the worst-hit areas. They are being held back by destroyed roads, a lack of heavy equipment, and harsh winter conditions, including snow, sleet, and rain. And temperatures are dropping to near-freezing levels at night in Turkey.
 
This image really says it all. That is a father whose 15-year-old daughter is now dead. He is holding her hand as her body remains trapped under the rubble.
 
And in Syria, rescue crews found an extremely brave little girl, called Maria, comforting her siblings as they lie beneath the wreckage.
 
And officials are particularly concerned about Syria where more than four million people were already relying on humanitarian assistance.
 
Let's go to our colleague Jomana Karadsheh. She joins us live in Adana, Turkey with more. Good morning to you. You were there in the aftermath -- the hours after this happened. What can you tell us about the search and recovery efforts?
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Poppy, search and rescue operations like this one behind me are continuing across the earthquake zone, as we understand from Turkish officials. They say this is their top priority as you can imagine. But, of course, they are facing all those challenges you mentioned. Here in Adana, the weather is a bit warmer and drier than other parts of this quake zone across these 10 provinces. 
 
But still, there are a lot of challenges. Thousands of people, they say, have been pulled from under the rubble of the devastated buildings, but you've got thousands of buildings that have been flattened and destroyed and the fear is there are thousands more who are trapped under the wreckage. 
 
So this really is a race against time. Every second counts in missions like this to try and save lives.
 
I can tell you here in Adana you're not seeing the sort of widescale destruction we're seeing in other parts of the quake zone. You see a lot of this. You see buildings that are still standing that have sustained little or no damage, and then you find buildings like this that have been flattened. 
 <br>[05:35:05]
 
We understand from rescue workers here and residents in the area that this was a 14-story residential building. They believe that about 100 people were living in that building. They don't know yet how many people were inside that building when the quake hit. And unfortunately, so far, we're being told they haven't found any survivors. They have pulled at least 10 bodies out of the building in the past 48 hours or so.
 
And I can tell you there was this moment of hope where rescue workers asked for quiet and this entire area -- the machines stopped, the diggers stopped. Everything went quiet. They were hoping -- they thought that they had heard something in there but it turned out it was nothing. And they are continuing with this mission -- a search and rescue, they say, and every second counts, Poppy.
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR:  Yes, Jomana, it's absolutely devastating to see that search underway. Thank you for that update. We'll stay with you this morning.
 
Also moments ago, the Ukrainian president, Zelenskyy, arrived in the United Kingdom. This is his first visit there since Russia's invasion and only his second time leaving the country since that invasion began. We're live at Downing Street, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[05:40:23]
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR:  Welcome back, everyone.
 
This morning, Germany says the Leopard 2 battle tanks it's sending to Ukraine will be ready to use by the end of next month. In his address last night, the president praised the U.S. and NATO allies' global effort to bolster Ukrainian forces against Russia's invasion.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Putin's invasion has been a test for the ages -- a test for America, a test for the world. Would we stand for the most basic of principles? Would we stand for sovereignty? Would we stand for the right of people to live free of tyranny? Would we stand for the defense of democracy? For such defense matters to us because it keeps peace and prevents open season on would-be aggressors that threatens our prosperity. 
 
One year later we know the answer. Yes, we would.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON:  And as we just showed you, moments ago -- there it is -- Ukrainian President Zelenskyy making his first visit to the U.K. since the invasion began. Those pictures from Reuters in London moments ago of him landing there.
 
CNN's Nic Robertson live now at Downing Street with more. Nic, hello to you. What is expected during Zelenskyy's trip to the U.K.?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Yes. As you say, though, this is his second trip outside of Ukraine since the war began. And remember his last trip to the United States came when President Biden announced the fact that the United States was going to commit Abrams tanks to Ukraine. That opened the door for the Germans to take that momentous step as well.
 
And it seems a similar track here in the U.K. -- the Ukrainian president coming here to Downing Street. He's already with the British prime minister. They're traveling in from the airport together right now, expected to walk up the street here. 
 
Zelenskyy is also expected to go and see Ukrainian troops training on the British Challenger 2 tank. The British were the first to offer tanks to the Ukrainians. 
 
But significantly, he is coming here at a time when the host nation -- the same with the United States with the Abrams -- a host nation, the U.K., set to offer Zelenskyy something he's not getting from other allies at the moment. The British are going to expand their training program for Ukrainian forces and going to offer fighter jet training on NATO standard aircraft. Not the planes just yet but the training so that in the future those Ukrainian fighter jet pilots can fly NATO standard aircraft.
 
And also, Britain is going to supply longer-range capability -- capacity for the Ukrainians. And that's being understood at the moment to mean longer-range rockets that reach deeper behind Russian lines. The HIMARS the Ukrainians have always wanted -- that longer-range version it seems that the British are going to announce something similar with their weapon systems for the Ukrainians. So, significant gets expected for Volodymyr Zelenskyy here. 
 
And crucially, as is done on previous visit -- as he did with the United States as well, here in the U.K. making a speech later today to Parliament where he can expect a very, very warm reception, Don. 
 
LEMON:  Yes, and we'll be watching. Nic Robertson at 10 Downing Street. 
 
You know, last week, I believe, Kaitlan and Poppy, we were just discussing what the United States is giving to Ukraine -- or sending to Ukraine -- never thought in a million years that they would be sending. And they say well, we're not going to go this far, and then they go further and they send bigger and stronger artillery there. So -- and now, the U.K. -- now Tony (PH) -- and now the U.K.'s doing the same thing. COLLINS:  Yes, and sometimes it opens up that question of well, if you now send it after initially, you weren't, would it have been more helpful if they had sent it sooner?
 
HARLOW:  Sooner.
 
LEMON:  In the beginning.
 
HARLOW:  And what will happen with the F-16 request. OK. 
 
COLLINS:  We'll be watching.
 
HARLOW:  Coming up on CNN THIS MORNING, this moment.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NBA ANNOUNCER:  Ladies and gentlemen, the all-time leading scorer -- you have witnessed it -- LeBron James.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  Wow.
 
LEMON:  Oh, wow. 
 
HARLOW:  What a night. What a moment for him LeBron James emotional after breaking the NBA's all-time scoring record. A closer look at this historic moment in sports, next.
 
LEMON:  Oh, look at Kareem.
 
COLLINS:  I'm emotional.
 
LEMON:  Yes, right?
 
HARLOW:  Yes.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[05:48:53]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL, SPORTS ANALYST, "INSIDE THE NBA," FORMER PRO BASKETBALL PLAYER:  Does this now make you the greatest player of all time? Are you now the GOAT?
 
LEBRON JAMES, FORWARD, LOS ANGELES LAKERS:  Oh, you know, I'm going to let everybody else decide who that is or just talk about it, but it's great -- it's great barbershop talk. But for me --
 
O'NEAL:  Oh, no -- I want to hear you say it.
 
JAMES:  Listen, big fella  -- listen, big fella -- 
 
O'NEAL:  I want to hear you say it, Bron-Bron. Say it. JAMES:  I -- me personally --
 
O'NEAL:  Say it with your chest, Bron Bron.
 
JAMES:  -- I'm going to take myself -- I'm going to take myself against anybody that's ever played this game. But everyone's going to have their favorite. Everyone's going to decide who they -- who they're favorite it is. 
 
But I know what I've brought to the table. I know what I bring to the table every single night and what I can -- what I can do out on this floor. So I always feel like I'm the best to ever play this game, but there's so many other great ones and I'm happy to just be a part of their -- a part of their journey.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS:  Thirty-eight thousand three hundred ninety points. LeBron James has now become NBA's all-time leading scorer surpassing Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. His record stood for nearly 40 years. Many thought that it could never be broken. 
 
Omar Jiminez is live outside the Lakers' arena, which was sold out last night as LeBron broke the record in front of a home crowd. Omar, I know the tickets were going for like $92,000 or something insane. I hope you put that on your expense -- or your expense account. 
 <br>[05:50:07]
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN Yes, yes, straight on the corporate card. I figured who's going to notice that, right? It will slip right through. It's fine.
 
But, like, I got in the more fun way, which was through a press pass, so I got to be up close and personal with a lot of these insane experiences to witness an insane moment -- a moment that many people thought would never come. But the people that showed up and tuned in on TNT came to see history and they got it. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NBA ANNOUNCER:  Westbrook with it. Give it to LeBron at the right --
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  With the fade and the flick of the wrist, history.
 
NBA ANNOUNCER:  Turns, shoots, scores! There it is! Oh, hell -- the new king in town!
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  In front of friends, family, and fans, LeBron James becomes the NBA's all-time leading scorer.
 
JAMES:  To be able to be in the presence of such a legend and great as Kareem it means so much to me. It's very humbling. Please give a standing ovation to the -- to the captain, please. 
 
(Cheers and applause)
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  Some fans were unsure this day would ever come, especially those that watched Kareem break the record.
 
TOMMIE HICKS, LIFELONG LAKERS FAN:  Kareem, when he shoots a skyhook over Mark Eaton and then -- I mean, it was like yesterday that happened. And I reflect back on what's happening now and it's like wow.
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  LeBron now not just an all-time points leader but also recently moving up to fourth in all-time assists. 
 
JIMENEZ (on camera):  Obviously, this is a scoring accolade that we're talking about, but how do you think the other aspects of this game have complemented the scoring he's been able to do for such a long time. 
 
DARVIN HAM, HEAD COACH, LOS ANGELES LAKERS:  He's made his teammates threats. And when you have to account for others that you're on the team with on the floor with, in particular, it allows you to operate more effectively.
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  It's a dynamic that's played a crucial role in LeBron's road to history. 
 
One of LeBron's central childhood figures knew he was on a path to greatness from the beginning.
 
FRANKIE WALKER, LEBRON'S CHILDHOOD COACH:  LeBron's greatest gift is he can comprehend real well. And whatever you teach him he applies it to his game, and it's still there. Ever since he was 8-9 years old. 
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  And for those that know James off the court they say his legacy will be bigger than the scoring title -- bigger than basketball, including through his LeBron James Family Foundation, among other things, helping the next generation go to school.
 
JIMENEZ (on camera):  From where you sit, what do you think this moment really exemplifies?
 
MICHELE CAMPBELL, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, LEBRON JAMES FAMILY FOUNDATION: A kid can do and be anything they want to be. To see that perseverance in someone that's so connected to who we are and what -- you know, in our work and what we're doing, and cares about us is doing that, it's a game changer. 
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  And on the court, the game has changed in the nearly 40 years since Kareem surpassed the previous record -- the next waves of LeBron looking on. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Sixteen points -- eight points a quarter. Go ahead and get it?
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  Some now wonder if LeBron is the greatest of all time. TYLER JONES, FLEW IN FROM NYC FOR GAME:  I mean, I personally think he
 
 is already, but I think that will cement him in his legacy as the GOAT.
 
JIMENEZ (voice-over):  It's what many once thought of Kareem's record but now untouched air for the king. 
 
NBA ANNOUNCER:  The all-time leading scorer -- you have witnessed it -- LeBron James. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
LEMON:  Wow. And, you know, Omar, I have to tell you I'm not the jealous type but honestly, I'm very jealous that you got to be there because we did not get invited to that particular game. It must have been amazing to sit there and witness what happened.
 
JIMENEZ:  Look, it was -- it was unbelievable. And we saw that moment just as we came out of that piece there of -- when the announcer finally put it out there that LeBron James was the all-time leading scorer. You saw the emotion well up in his eyes. You saw the emotion in his family's eyes. This is someone who has worked so hard to get to this point and ever thought that he would be the one to break what many thought was an unbreakable record.
 
And by the way, just because he's broken this record doesn't mean he's going to stop. He said he's going to keep playing for at least two or three and maybe even more years and try to basically run away with this as far as possible so that people now say this is a record that will never be broken. 
 
COLLINS:  So awesome.
 
LEMON:  So awesome. Kaitlan said she was getting emotional. Poppy --
 
COLLINS:  I mean, yes. It's so special.
 
JIMENEZ:  Yes.
 
LEMON:  Yes.
 
JIMENEZ:  Yes, how can you not?
 
LEMON:  Just to see his family out there.
 
And Poppy, as you and I were talking about, he's not afraid to weigh in on issues that he thinks --
 
HARLOW:  No. 
 
LEMON:  -- are important to him and --
 
HARLOW:  Well, who is ever going to forget his response to shut up and dribble?
 <br>[05:55:00]
 
LEMON:  Shut up and dribble. 
 
HARLOW:  And he's -- I just love that this happened to such a good guy, Omar. That's what I just kept thinking. Like, such a guy who has given so much to so many others for so many years in Akron and beyond.
 
LEMON:  The foundation. Yes, you're right.
 
HARLOW:  Yes.
 
LEMON:  Yes.
 
JIMENEZ:  Yes, and that's the thing. Like, if you just looked at the basketball alone this would be one of the all-time greats. But I think the reaction and the reception he's gotten to being the one to break this record shows he's about more than just someone who's dribbling on the basketball court.
 
HARLOW:  Yes.
 
LEMON:  Right no.
 
We saw Kareem there. We say Magic Johnson. Everybody emotional. Congratulations to him. And congratulations to you, Omar. 
 
JIMENEZ:  And (INAUDIBLE).
 
LEMON:  Yes. Oh, and (INAUDIBLE).
 
HARLOW:  Oh, yes.
 
LEMON:  Congratulations, Omar, I guess. All right, thank you, sir. We'll see you soon. Get some sleep. Get some sleep.
 
President Biden laying out his vision for America in his State of the Union address while getting heckled by some Republicans. How he handled it straight ahead.
 
What is she wearing?
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[06:00:00]