Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Trump To Arrive In New York Today And Surrender Tuesday; Russia Arrests Female Suspect In St. Petersburg Blast; Ukraine Derides Claim Russian Forces Hold Bakhmut. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired April 03, 2023 - 10:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:31]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: I'm Becky Anderson live from Abu Dhabi where the time is 6:00 in the evening. This is CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
 Coming up this hour. Trump sent to -- set to head to New York to face criminal charges.
 
Russia detains a woman in connection with the bombing death of a prominent military blogger. 
 
OPEC and its allies unexpectedly cut more than a million barrels of oil from the market.
 
And Chelsea Football Club sacks its manager Graham Potter after just six months in the job.
 
Well, security is tight in New York ahead of former U.S. President Donald Trump's expected arrival just hours from now. This is a live look at his 
 
 personal plane on the tarmac in West Palm Beach in Florida. Sometime in the next two hours. He is expected to board that plane and fly to Manhattan. 
 
 After arriving is scheduled to travel to his New York building, Trump Tower. 
 
Tomorrow Tuesday, Mr. Trump is set to be arraigned in Manhattan on criminal charges. Those charges tied to alleged hush money payments to adult film 
 
 star Stormy Daniels. Well, outside that courtroom security is tight. Secret Service, New York police and court officers coordinating security 
 
 arrangements. Some point today the judge hearing the case should rely on requests from media outlets including CNN to allow cameras in the courtroom 
 
 and to unseal the indictment.
 
Meanwhile, a new CNN poll released within the past hour shows that 60 percent of Americans questioned approve of the decision to indict Donald 
 
 Trump.
 
Let's get to it. CNN's Kristen Holmes is near Trump's residence at Mar-a- Lago in Florida. At this point, his critics, of course, say that Trump is using indictment to his own benefit. How? Explain if you will.
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: So, the former President spent most of the weekend talking to his advisers about how to actually take over 
 
 and make this a political fight. This is obviously a legal fight, but they are looking at ways to tout this and take advantage of it. We know that he 
 
 had spent the weekend calling and texting advisors, allies, Republicans in general, talking about how he believes this is a political win.
 
He said that he -- that new poll numbers out he talked about his fundraising. And note that the campaign said they raised $5 million in the 
 
 45 -- 48 hours after the indictment was released. So, that is how they are trying to build on this. They do believe, of course, that it could help 
 
 them with fundraising, that it could help him politically. Now not everybody is so sure. They do believe it generally consensus of those 
 
 people around him that this will help them in a contested primary.
 
But a lot of questions still about what this will mean for him politically, if he does get the nomination and in a general election.
 
ANDERSON: Kristen, what's his mood?
 
HOLMES: His mood has been calm and focused. I talked to relatively, say, seven or eight people who have spoken to him in the last 48 hours. They all 
 
 described him the same way. They said that they've seen him in rage fits before. This was not the response that they'd seen. They -- some of them 
 
 said it was because he was compartmentalizing this happening. Others said it's because he believes that this is a weak case and he is going to beat 
 
 it.
 
But whatever the reasoning is, all of these sources said that he was relatively calm and focused and looking ahead. This is after, of course, we 
 
 reported the initial shock of learning that he had been indicted. He himself was shocked that it actually happened. And those around him were 
 
 shocked at the timing of this. They really thought they had either more time or that the case had fallen apart, given what they had heard in those 
 
 media reports about the grand jury not meeting, going on hiatus, not reviewing that case for at least a month.
 
ANDERSON: And we are yet to learn the details of this indictment. At this point, let's just confirm, what are our sources telling us?
 
HOLMES: We still do not have any information on those charges, other than we know that it is more than 30 charges in business -- of business fraud. 
 
 That is all that we know at this point. And that is really the big question mark here because as you have heard from the former president, he has 
 
 called this a political witch-hunt.
 <br>[10:05:04]
 
He has said that this is a hoax, that this indictment was nothing more than a political play for Joe Biden and compared it or linked it to the 2024 
 
 election. Well, that is all based on not having what he is actually charged with. Not seeing the evidence, not seeing the charges. So that's what we're 
 
 going to be watching for closely when he delivers his remarks on Tuesday back here at his Mar-a-Lago home behind me.
 
Does that messaging change once we actually see what those charges are? And it's not just watching the former president. We have seen a number of 
 
 Republicans jumping into his defense. The question is, does their messaging change after we see what he is actually being formally charged with?
 
ANDERSON: Well, we expect him to be on the move in the next couple of hours. As he makes those moves, you will see them first here on CNN. Thank 
 
 you.
 
Russia has arrested a suspect in connection with Sunday's explosion at Petersburg Cafe which killed prominent military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky 
 
 and wounded at least 32 others now. Officials have detained this woman, 26- year-old anti-war activist Daria Trepova. They claim she handed to Tatarsky a figure with an explosive device inside. And that she worked with the 
 
 agents of the Ukrainian special services and associates of jailed Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny.
 
Jill Dougherty joining me now from Washington. She's an adjunct professor at Georgetown University. Spent years covering Russia in depth as CNN 
 
 Moscow bureau chief. It's always a pleasure to have you. All right. What do we know about these two characters? Let's start with Vladlen Tatarsky. Who 
 
 was he?
 
JILL DOUGHERTY, FORMER CNN MOSCOW BUREAU CHIEF: He's a very well-known anti-war blogger. And when you say anti-war blog -- war blogger, it doesn't 
 
 mean that he is against the war. It means actually that he is for the war but at times critical of how the official military had been carrying out 
 
 this war. Usually, his position would be they're not doing enough, they're not attacking Ukraine enough. 
 
And then you have the young woman, Daria Trepova. 26 years old. There is information out there that she was involved in anti-war demonstrations at 
 
 the beginning, right, last year when the invasion of Ukraine happened. So, I think, Becky, you know, you've got several theories. There's no question. 
 
 This is a very murky world. And it's a world that I think illustrates the internal instability going on right now in Russia.
 
ANDERSON: There are reports certainly claims that Trepova handed Tatarsky a figurine with an explosive device inside, that she worked with agents of 
 
 Ukrainian special services and associates of the jailed Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny. How much of what we know to date is speculative and 
 
 how likely is it that we will get much more detail?
 
DOUGHERTY: Oh, this is all speculative at this point, there's no question. I mean -- but it fits by accusing her. It fits with the Kremlin's 
 
 messaging, which is number one, Ukraine is at the core of everything that Ukraine is carrying out terrorism, supposedly against Russia. It also 
 
 allows the Kremlin to attack or criticize the opposition to the war. And then also there's a third, which, of course, is they can criticize Navalny 
 
 and his movement.
 
But I think, you know, there's another theory, of course, there are many about this, is that it could be an indication of this internal fighting 
 
 among various groups who either are against the war, but maybe extremely against the war, and there could be some internal fighting. So it's murky, 
 
 and when this goes into the realm of terrorism, it gets a lot of its secret and we may not know everything, unless what the government -- the Russian 
 
 government wants people to know.
 
ANDERSON: Absolutely. Jill, it's always a pleasure. Thank you very much. Indeed. Jill Dougherty is in Washington, D.C. for you today.
 
Well, the Wall Street Journal reporter arrested in Russia on Friday on spying charges is appealing against his arrest.
 
Meantime, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg is calling for the reporter Evan Gershkovich to be released immediately.
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken echoed that call on Sunday, as he spoke with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. As of Sunday, U.S. 
 
 officials in Moscow had not been granted consular access to Gershkovich.
 
Well, Ukrainian officials dismissing a claim by the head of the Wagner private army group who had said that Russian forces hold backward in "legal 
 
 terms."
 <br>[10:10:08]
 
Now, Yevgeny Prigozhin made that claim in this video, which he said showed him raising a Russian flag at the side of a council building. A Ukrainian 
 
 military spokesman says the video is incomprehensible.
 
David McKenzie joining us with the very latest. He's on the ground in Kyiv in Ukraine for you. David.
 
DAVE MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, that's right. That video which is, of course, taken at night and not exactly clear what 
 
 we are seeing there but Prigozhin claimed that they had -- in a legal sense taken Bakhmut, that heavily contested city in the eastern part of the 
 
 France. And now Ukrainian officials saying that's "wishful thinking." They say, while it is a very difficult situation, they still control certain 
 
 sections of that city.
 
And importantly, they say they are able to get food, medicine, and the wounded out of that area as well as ammunition. So -- and they also point 
 
 out, I think, which is important that over many, many months, the Russians and the private military contractors have not been able to take Bakhmut. 
 
 That much is clear.
 
You know, the ongoing shelling and rocket attacks and missile attacks in the eastern part of the country and frankly, throughout this country have 
 
 had a devastating toll on soldiers and civilians alike. We got rare access inside a team of U.S. and Canadian surgeons looking to reconstruct 
 
 Ukrainian faces. I must warn some viewers, they could find some of these images disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCKENZIE (voice over): The impact of war is hard to look at.
 
DR. RAYMOND CHO, OCULAR PLASTIC SURGEON: The difficulty that I'm having is that I don't know what anything looks like behind the skin here. I can make 
 
 an opening that looks like there's an eye, but they're never going to look like normal eyelids.
 
MCKENZIE: And the surgical realities are nothing like civilian life.
 
How do you compare it to here in Ukraine?
 
DR. ANTHONY BRISSETT, MISSION DIRECTOR, FACE THE FUTURE: Well, the level of complexity for these cases is significantly more elaborate and 
 
 significantly more complex.
 
We think we can get the mouth of working better.
 
MCKENZIE: Face the Future mission director Anthony Brissett says the blast injuries are often devastating.
 
BRISSETT: One of the things that we can do is improve the appearance of the scar.
 
MCKENZIE: Multilevel bone and soft tissue injuries.
 
BRISSETT: It really get -- does not get any more complex than this even in a combat scenario.
 
MCKENZIE: They brought together highly specialist plastic surgeons, anesthesiologists, and nurses from the U.S. and Canada to reconstruct and 
 
 repair.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All that bone is missing.
 
MCKENZIE: What many cannot.
 
BRISSETT: And if we can do that, then that certainly is fulfilling opportunity.
 
MCKENZIE (on camera): So, it's not just the physical change, it's a psychological help you hope.
 
BRISSETT: Absolutely. Absolutely. And it's a psychological help not just for the patient but also for their family.
 
MCKENZIE (voice over): Roman Belinsky is one of their patients. He's invited us to his home.
 
What do I think of him? I'm proud of my son, says his mother, Lesha. I'm proud of him. I'm proud of the fact that he didn't run away. He didn't 
 
 hide.
 
Early in the war, this mechanized infantry brigade faced the brunt of Russia's invasion. And they oncoming tanks.
 
Are you surprised that you survived?
 
I do not understand how I survived, he says. I don't even understand how I got through the shelling because it was dark. My eye was hanging out. I was 
 
 concussed. My whole face was covered in blood. Shrapnel went right through me. He says, many in his brigade were lost. We were all like one family, he 
 
 says. You know, somewhere, you feel your guilt that I didn't also die like they did.
 
Roman lived. And this will be his third surgery with Dr. John Frodel.
 
DR. JOHN FRODEL, FACE THE FUTURE: What bothers you the most now?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our hope is that at some point, they leave happy. You know, that I don't see them again. On my end, I have to appreciate we're 
 
 making steps because they -- we don't fix that. We make them better.
 
BRISSETT: This is where we shine, which is in the operating room. All of the steps and activities that we're doing before getting here is really to 
 
 get us to this point.
 
MCKENZIE: Roman's surgery is one of the first of the day. He says Dr. Frodel and the team have already put him back together and saved his life.
 
MCKENZIE (on camera): Dr. Frodel is working to move cheek implant, just a tiny bit higher on Roman. The margins in this kind of surgery are very 
 
 small, but the differences for the patients can be huge.
 <br>[10:15:07]
 
DR. PETER ADAMSON, FOUNDER, FACE THE FUTURE: A person's appearance is reflection of their inner spirit of their inner self to the world. And we 
 
 must never forget that. But everyone wants to have a facial appearance that others want to look at and would want to get to know you. It's part of the 
 
 human condition.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCKENZIE: I've been in touch with Dr. Frodel, Becky, over the next few days after that surgery of Roman he says that -- Roman's doing well, the 
 
 swelling will eventually come down. They're coming back here in just a matter of weeks, as we say in that report there, it takes a long term 
 
 commitment and part of the commitment is the patient's themselves deciding whether they want to go on with these multiple surgeries that at times make 
 
 marginal differences, but in general, they're making a huge difference in their lives. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: It is. It is absolutely remarkable. Their work has to be absolutely applauded. David, before I let you go, the bombing of a cafe in 
 
 St. Petersburg yesterday, Moscow claiming one young woman worked with agents of the Ukrainian special services. She has been arrested in 
 
 connection with the bombing and the death of a Russian military blogger. What are Ukrainian authorities are saying about those claims?
 
MCKENZIE: Well, I think the most instrumental thing to look at in this particular case that this time is what President Zelenskyy has said about 
 
 this. So, in prime -- in prime -- excuse me, primarily, Zelenskyy, Becky has said that he has no comment. And tellingly, what he has said is that 
 
 what happens in Russian cities, what happens in St. Petersburg and I'm paraphrasing here is for Russian authorities, he has to worry about what's 
 
 happening here in Ukraine. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: David is in Kyiv in Ukraine. David, thank you.
 
Sanna Marin's time as Finland's Prime Minister is coming to an end. She conceded defeat in Sunday's parliamentary election. Now the 37-year-old was 
 
 the world's youngest Prime Minister when she took office in 2019. And she gained worldwide notoriety as a role model for progressive leaders. But at 
 
 home she faced criticism over government spending and when photos surfaced of her drinking and partying with friend's conservative leader.
 
Petteri Orpo will now have a chance to form coalition majority and become the next prime minister.
 
Iran's leaders are not backing down after two women were attacked and arrested for not wearing the hijab. This silent CCTV video shows the moment 
 
 when a man enters a shop in the northeastern city of Shandiz and proceeds to dump yogurt on the women's heads. Iranian media report the two women 
 
 have been detained for not covering their hair. The man has also been arrested.
 
CNN's Nada Bashir covering this for us from London. And as I understand it, there has -- this is not a -- an isolated or unique event, Nada.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER: Absolutely, Becky. Over more than six months now we have seen protests. But as those protests have slowed, we 
 
 are still seeing women bravely defying those strict dress code regulations put in place by the government. And in some of the bigger cities across 
 
 Iran including the capital Tehran has become quite the norm actually, to see women to find those dress code regulations.
 
We've seen images and videos emerging of women removing their hijab, taking part in their day-to-day lives without wearing those mandatory hijabs. But 
 
 of course, in response to that there has been a retaliation. We have seen a crackdown, a brutal heavy-handed tactics used by Iran's morality police. 
 
 And of course, we have seen incidences like this one which took place on Thursday.
 
You describe there, in that video a man confronting these two women who entered the store with their hair uncovered before throwing yogurt over 
 
 their heads before he was pushed out of the store by the shopkeeper. Now there has been a response by the government. We heard over the weekend for 
 
 Iran's Ebrahim Raisi who said that regardless of one's beliefs, when it comes to wearing the hijab, this is a matter of the law in Iran. Take a 
 
 listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EBRAHIM RAISI, PRESIDENT OF IRAN (through translator): If there are people who say that they do not share this belief of ours, and this is the place 
 
 for scientific and cultural centers as well as schools to discuss and convince them. This is something we emphasize that the important matter is 
 
 that today we have a legal mandate. The legal mandate makes it mandatory for everyone to follow the law.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR: Now, of course, Becky, wearing the hijab is mandatory in Iran according to Iranian law. 
 <br>[10:20:03]
 
And as we've seen in the past, women who do not wear the hijab, do not cover their hair often face pretty harsh repercussions by the Iranian 
 
 authorities, including the morality police. And of course, you'll remember Mahsa Amini whose death sparked this protest movement. She died in the 
 
 custody of Iran morality police. So, there is continued concern over those heavy-handed tactics used by the Iranian authorities.
 
Those two women, as seen in that video have been arrested by the Iranian authorities and according to Iran's judicial body and state media, the male 
 
 suspects in question has also been arrested for disturbing public order. But it's unclear what the repercussions of that charge may be. But look, as 
 
 well -- as these protests have slowed down, we are still seeing these brave acts of defiance by women up and down the country each and every day in 
 
 Iran. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: More on from the region. Thank you, Nada. In our -- meanwhile, in the Middle East newsletter, you can get your inbox three times a week. Sign 
 
 up by scanning the Q.R. code at the bottom of the screen or head to cnn.com/middleeastnewsletter. Right.
 
Coming up on this show. Tensions high in the West Bank as families mourn the deaths of two militants who Palestinian say were killed by Israeli 
 
 forces. Details on that are just ahead. I'm Becky Anderson. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD live from Abu Dhabi. Taking a very short break. Back 
 
 after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. You're watching the CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Becky Anderson. Palestinian Authority say two Palestinians were killed during an 
 
 operation by Israeli military forces in the occupied West Bank. Now, Israel Defense Forces confirm they conducted an operation in Nablus. They say they 
 
 exchanged fire with armed gunmen who allegedly fired at them. The Palestinian militant group lion's den claims to kill were members.
 
Let's get you to CNN's Hadas Gold. What's the latest as we understand it on the west bank or in the West Bank?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Becky. The IDF says they conducted an operation they said to arrest two suspects they said were 
 
 involved in a drive by shooting attack of Israeli soldiers in that flashpoint town of Hawara last month. They say that during this operation, 
 
 they came under fire by gunmen. They say they fired back identifying hits. And now we hear from the lion's den militant group, this nascent militant's 
 
 group that's especially active in Nablus saying that the two killed were members of this militant group.
 
Now Nablus is very close to Hawara which of course has become this flashpoint Palestinian village of Israeli and Palestinian attacks. Nablus 
 
 alongside Janine has really become a focal point of these new militant groups that have risen up in the occupied West Bank.
 <br>[10:25:08]
 
But the to kill today bring the number of Palestinians killed so far this year. And keep in mind, we're only in April, 294. Now this number includes 
 
 both militants and civilians. And there have been 15 Israelis killed so far this year, all but one were civilians. Now, we're only in April. These 
 
 numbers, Becky, put us really very well on track to completely outpace last year's numbers of Palestinians and Israelis killed.
 
And last year, was a record year, record in decades for this conflict. So, just keep an eye on where we are. It's only April and where this violence 
 
 is already this year and what this could mean for the rest of the year, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: The protests in Israel of late have been -- this is really important, bolstered by IDF veterans. Now I know that you spoke and spent 
 
 some time on Saturday with some of the leaders of this movement. What did you learn, Hadas?
 
GOLD: Yes. It's without a question that the support from these IDF veterans and also military service to this protest movement. The protest movement 
 
 against the Israeli government's judicial overhaul has been a key pressure point. One of several but one of the key pressure points that got Netanyahu 
 
 to cause a pause on this legislation but they say they are not backing down anytime soon.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD (voice over): Yiftach Golov may look like one of the hundreds of thousands of Israeli protesters. But a Special Forces veteran from the 
 
 Second Intifada, injured on the front lines now helps lead a group of Israeli veterans. Brothers and Sisters in Arms who've become a backbone of 
 
 the protest movement against the Israeli government's plan judicial overhaul.
 
YIFTACH GOLOV, MEMBER, BROTHERS AND SISTERS IN ARMS: We are again in the frontline defending Israel but not from external forces from within from -- 
 
 here from Tel Aviv to defend our own democracy. We're fighting for justice and liberty, just like the American story. That's the values that that are 
 
 being represented symbolized back when we look at our flag.
 
GOLD: Golov says he had never been particularly political, but he translated his experience from the battlefield to a new arena.
 
GOLD (on camera): (INAUDIBLE) experience in organizing and running missions has helped you organize and run this (INAUDIBLE) 
 
GOLOV: One hundred percent yes.
 
GOLD: How is that?
 
GOLOV: First of all, the motivation. The very deep feel that you are part of something bigger than yourself, that you allow to sacrifice anything 
 
 that is needed.
 
GOLD (voice over): Israel's protest movement is made up of many disparate groups. But the pressure from Israel's much vaunted veterans has been seen 
 
 as a key to moving the needle. Thousands of you whom threatened not to keep the call to serve if the reform passes.
 
GOLD (on camera): Even though last week, Israeli government and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced that they were going to pause 
 
 legislation. These protesters essentially, they don't believe that this pause is a real pause.
 
What will satisfy you? When will you stop marching?
 
GOLOV: Only we as the Brothers and Sisters in Arms, we will start doing the activation only when we will know 100 percent that we can -- that we can 
 
 assure that Israel state will stay a functional democratic country, end of story. Whatever needs to be done for that.
 
GOLD: Would you be willing to take up arms -- real arms for this fight?
 
GOLOV: So, I don't really want to imagine a situation that I need to hold on to carry any arm, nothing. I don't believe that will go to this 
 
 situation.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD: And Becky, the defense minister, Yoav Gallant who was dismissed by Netanyahu after he came up against this judicial overhaul that of course 
 
 sparking that massive general strike. He actually technically has not been fired yet. He's still in his post and he's actually supposed to be 
 
 appearing with Benjamin Netanyahu himself tonight at an event with Israeli soldiers. So, seems as though he's not actually going to be fired. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: OK. Well, let's wait and see whether we actually see him. Thank you. Hadas Gold on the -- on the number of stories on the ground there in 
 
 Israel.
 
Just ahead on CONNECT THE WORLD where the time out of here in the UAE is just before half past 6:00. Coming up. OPEC plus makes a surprise move. 
 
 We'll show you the impacts on the oil markets. That is after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:32:11]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. The time here just after half past 6:00. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. Your headlines 
 
 this hour. And a live look at former U.S. President Donald Trump's personal plane in West Palm Beach in Florida. He is expected to board that flight 
 
 soon and fly to New York Tuesday. He's scheduled to be arraigned on criminal charges tied to alleged hush money payments to adult film star 
 
 Stormy Daniels. Keeping our eyes on that for you.
 
Russia has arrested a suspect in Sunday's explosion at a St. Petersburg Cafe. 26-year-old anti- war activist Daria Trepova. Official say she worked 
 
 with Ukrainians and allies of Alexei Navalny. The blast killed a prominent military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky and wounded at least 32 others. 
 
Iranian officials say there's an open investigation now after two women were attacked and arrested for not wearing the hijab. The incident captured 
 
 in this video shows a man throwing yogurt over the two women who were later detained themselves for not covering their hair. The man has also been 
 
 arrested.
 
Well, after a weekend of deadly weather, several southern U.S. states are preparing for the possibility of more severe storms through tomorrow 
 
 afternoon. A tornado watch has been issued for parts of Louisiana, of Texas, Mississippi and Alabama. Over the weekend, Tornadoes killed at least 
 
 32 people. The storms destroying homes, ripped roofs off buildings, knocked down trees and powerlines. More than 050 tornadoes were reported in at 
 
 least seven states. 
 
Well, oil prices are spiking after OPEC plus members and non-OPEC members announced a surprise production cut led by Saudi Arabia. Producers 
 
 voluntarily planning to reduce crude output by more than a million barrels a day. Now these cuts will start in May. Rising oil prices are reigniting 
 
 questions about what central banks could do to tackle inflation.
 
Anna Stewart joining us on this. So, we have seen a significant rise in the oil price as you would expect after a surprise move to cut oil supply from 
 
 the market. Question is, what was the rationale for those who decided to voluntarily cut together?
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Well, we look at the official message from the Energy Minister of Saudi Arabia then this was a precautionary measure, 
 
 essentially to stabilize the market. Getting ahead of any potential decline in oil demand. If you take a more skeptical view, you could see this the 
 
 way of those big oil producing nations over making more profit from oil. 
 <br>[10:35:04]
 
Increasing those revenues and you can see from those oil prices today that it certainly worked at least in the short term. This announcement coming 
 
 over the weekend as well. So, a bit of a surprise to the markets. Brent crude up over five percent -- over six percent right now. It was up over 
 
 eight percent earlier this morning, though. It has pared back some of those gains.
 
But analysts Becky, saying that we could see oil prices now at $100 a barrel by the end of the year. Now the biggest costs borne by the biggest 
 
 player, Saudi Arabia, they are opting to cut 500,000 barrels a day. And that is on top of already what we saw huge cuts in October, taking two 
 
 million barrels a day off the market already. Russia extending the cut that's already in there. That was kind of expected though.
 
I think this shows us that the cartel wants to put a floor under these prices. But also, they're clearly not worried about market share. And I 
 
 think these feeds into the U.S. picture as well, the slowing shale output in the U.S. and also the fact that the U.S. still hasn't replaced the oil 
 
 from its strategic reserve, which is now at the biggest slow we've seen since 1983. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes. And there has been suggestions that the U.S. had promised to do that. They hadn't and therefore, the Saudi Arabians are fairly cross. 
 
 Let's put it that way. Very briefly, what's been the U.S. reaction to this cut? And what sort of impact is it going to have on inflation and interest 
 
 rates?
 
STEWART: Well, the U.S. we're not happy by the output cut in October, and they're certainly not happy by this either, essentially said it's rather 
 
 unhelpful. In advisable given all the market uncertainty, we've seen with the banking sector and so on. It does feed into this big interest rate and 
 
 inflation story. One of the biggest parts of inflation right now is energy prices. And you've got the major central banks, whether it's the Fed, the 
 
 ECB, the Bank of England, all looking to end their rate rises because they all see inflation now coming down significantly.
 
But that was largely based on energy. So, if energy prices stay high or go higher, once again, then we could look at a very muddied outlook actually 
 
 for economic growth and those interest rates.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, Fascinating, isn't it? All right. Well, this is the Monday morning gift from some of the world's biggest oil producers. As you say the 
 
 price is up around about six percent at this point.
 
Anna, always a pleasure. Thank you. Still ahead on this show. Parting with Potter. Chelsea sacked their manager just six months into the job. Why? 
 
 Well, that is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:42:08]
 
ANDERSON: You're back with CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson. Now, the best in golf will be teeing off at the Masters tournament in Augusta, 
 
 Georgia. This weekend, one winner in the Youth Competition this past Sunday is based here in Abu Dhabi. Maya Palanza Gaudin. She is a rising star in 
 
 the golf world. And I was lucky enough to sit down with her a few weeks ago here in Abu Dhabi before she gets swamped with interview requests from this 
 
 weekend's triumph. She told me at the time who she looks up to.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYA PALANZA GAUDIN, 12-YEAR-OLD GOLFING SUPERSTAR: I definitely aspire to Rory McIlroy or Tommy Fleetwood and Lydia Ko, or even Nelly Korda. Nelly 
 
 Korda, I really am -- I really want to look at her swing. Her swing is one of the best things ever.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, a new era is beginning at Stamford Bridge for the second time in just months. Chelsea have sacked manager Graham Potter after the 
 
 club won less than half of the games that he was in charge of. He was just hired in September. There were boos on Saturday when the Blues lost two-nil 
 
 to Aston Villa at home. Patrick Snell here with more on what is next for Chelsea. 
 
here was a real sense that despite the fact that he hadn't got off to a great start as far as results were concerned that Chelsea would stick with 
 
 Potter. What happened?
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: Yes. There were just signs, when the -- Becky that Graham Potter was starting to turn it all around. He's had 
 
 three straight wins not that long ago actually, guided them through to the last stage of the Champions League as well. And you just wonder we'll never 
 
 know now of course if he's given more time what might have happened. But look, the search is on your quiet right, Becky, for yet another Chelsea 
 
 head coach who might it be as the Graham Potter era comes to an end after pretty much like half a year in charge only. 
 
I'm going to reveal one high-profile German name that could be a factor in all this in just a few moments when World Sport starts. Back to you though 
 
 for now, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: That is your tease. That is the show up after this short break. I'll be back top of the hour for you. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END