Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Epic Winter Storm Slams California; Passenger and Freight Trains Collide in Greece; Russia's War in Ukraine Continues; Belarus President to Meet Xi Jinping During China Visit. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired March 01, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. You're watching "CNN Newsroom" and I'm Rosemary Church.
 
Just ahead, epic snowfall in California measured in feet. So much snow some skew resorts closed, house buried, road shut down, some people trapped in their homes as another major system barrels towards the state today.
 
Millions of Americans will wake up this morning without a pandemic-era benefit that help them buy groceries, even as inflation has caused food prices to soar.
 
Plus, at least three dozen people are dead after two trains collide head-on in Greece.
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over):  Live from CNN Center, this is "CNN Newsroom" with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH:  Thank you for being with us. Well, California under blizzard warning. Parts of the Golden State have been buried in up to seven feet of snow over the past two days as a freezing cold system moves inland over the U.S.
 
On Tuesday, 23 million Americans were under winter weather alerts with many of those in California. The surprise snowstorms are also bringing high winds, streaming across the southwest, and more snow tracking across the Pacific Northwest.
 
The storm system isn't just spreading snow, it is also spreading panic as resources grow scarce. Cities in the San Bernardino mountains are facing food and fuel shortages because of dangerous conditions on the roads. Two more bouts of heavy snow are expected in the Sierra Nevada mountains and across Northern California over the next few days.
 
It will take some time for snow to melt in the city of Truckee where snow banks seem to be taller than vehicles. California's highway patrol is warning residents to stay off the roads if possible.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNKNOWN:  I-80 is closed, (INAUDIBLE) is closed, and there is no way to get over. So, unless you got one of these handy equipment, piece of equipment in front of you, don't even try it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And CNN's Stephanie Elam has more on how the snow is affecting residents of San Bernardino County.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  The amount of snow we are seeing here in San Bernardino County is just extraordinary. We understand the conditions change so quickly, that many people, when the storm hit, they just have to abandon their cars. They just couldn't see any further.
 
Other nice, good Samaritans, we're showing them, they just hop in their car and ride with them. All of this has left these cars here. Now, we're seeing people who are coming out here to dig out their cars because we know that another batch of snow is on its way tonight.
 
In fact, we caught up with a group of friends who came up here over the weekend. They were digging at their cars. Take a listen to what Anthony Chavez told me. 
 
ANTHONY CHAVEZ, CALIFORNIA RESIDENT:  You just see everybody getting stuck. There are cars going up and they're slipping and sliding. They're just running into cars. Pretty much a pileup. Everybody was stuck. And then there was a point where it was like, okay, it is getting dark now, so we don't want to be stuck out here overnight, so it is time to go.
 
ELAM:  The roads got so bad that grocery stores have had a hard time getting supplies. Gas stations as well. People up here without supplies now several days into this storm. And now, more snow coming. We understand that three times the amount of snow that they normally get in a year has fallen in less than four days.
 
Take a look over here. This gentleman -- what kind of car do you have over here?
 
UNKNOWN:  Actually, it is a Mini Cooper. 
 
ELAM:  He has had a Mini Cooper completely buried behind this mound of snow. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  And CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam has the latest forecast in where the winter weather is expected to hit next.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Heavy snowfall is paralyzing parts of the state of California, so much so that communities have been cut off because the roadways are virtually impossible. Snowfall is piling up to the tops of the first stories of some of the homes. They have search and rescue helicopters going in to make sure that everybody in the communities are safe, they can get supplies.
 
Some people have actually been left no other option but to leave their car on the side because there is simply just too much snow within the area. Just take this image, for example. Look at the snowfall, piling up. That is a sliding glass window that is coming out of the Lake Arrowhead, California region.
 <br>[03:04:59]
 
Get this, there has been so much snow in some of the ski resorts in California that they actually had to close the ski resorts. I mean, that is incredible. Right? The purpose of a ski resort is to have a lot of snow. Well, too much is perhaps too much of a good thing. Right?
 
Thirty-eight inches of snow in the past 24 hours at Palisades, near Lake Tahoe, and there is still more snow to come. You can see that digging in with another trough. Winter storm warnings, blizzard warnings blanketing the state of California. Those alerts extend across the Great Basin.
 
Over 10 million Americans feeling the impacts of this latest round of winter weather. And, of course, as the system advances eastward, it will pile up more snow, the potential for another two to three feet on top of what they already experienced. Unfortunately, it's going to encounter some warm air up stream and cause the potential for severe weather.
 
We actually have two different severe weather systems. Today, we have severe weather across the deep south. But on Thursday, that is the big show. We are going to watch out for the potential of tornadoes across East Texas into Arkansas, Louisiana, as well as parts of Mississippi. Potential for flash flooding exists across the region as well. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH:  For the first time since 1983, Chicago has ditched an elected mayor. Lori Lightfoot conceded Tuesday after failing to secure a spot in a top two runoff. She couldn't overcome a spike in violent crime and years of fights with police and teachers' unions. Lightfoot made history by becoming the first Black and openly gay person to lead Chicago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR LORI LIGHTFOOT, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS:  As we all know, in life, in the end, you don't always win every battle, but you never regret taking on the powerful and bringing in the light.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
To my friends across the country and my fellow mayors, never fear being brave and bold.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  One of the two candidates advancing to the April runoff is longtime public schools' chief Paul Vallas on the right. He built his campaign on a pro-police tough on crime message. He will face Brandon Johnson, a Cook County commissioner popular with progressives. No candidate received more than 50% of the vote.
 
The U.S. Supreme Court heard oral arguments on Tuesday on two challenges to President Joe Biden's student loan debt relief plan. Demonstrators gathered in Washington to back the president's plan. It could potentially forgive federal debt up to $20,000 for individuals.
 
Some of the more conservative justices on the court appeared skeptical. But an Obama-appointee signaled Mr. Biden has the right of way from Congress. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEIL GORSUCH, ASSOCIATE JUSTICE, SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (voice-over):  What I think they argue that is missing is cost to other persons in terms of fairness, for example, people who have paid their loans, people who don't plan their lives around not seeking loans, and people who are not eligible for loans.
 
ELENA KAGAN, ASSOCIATE JUSTICE, SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (voice-over):  This is an emergency provision. There's an emergency. It's an earthquake. Congress used its voice. Congress used its voice in enacting this piece of legislation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  If the plan goes through, more than 40 million federal student loan borrowers would be eligible for some type of debt cancellation or forgiveness. The Congressional Budget Office reported in September that the plan would cost U.S. taxpayers around $400 billion of roughly 30 years. There is a pause on permanent requirements until the Supreme Court reaches a decision.
 
Two trains have collided in Northern Greece, killing at least 36 people. Dozens of others are injured and have been sent to hospitals. Hundreds of people were traveling from Athens to Thessaloniki when their passenger train collided with a freight train. It's unclear what caused the crash. Crews are still searching for survivors and authorities have begun identifying the dead.
 
We want to bring in CNN's Eleni Giokos, who joins us live from Dubai. So, Eleni, what is the latest on this tragic train accident?
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah. Eleven hours since this accident, 36 people have lost their lives. This is the latest report we just heard from authorities. Sixty-six hospitalized, six of which are currently in intensive care. Authorities are pleading the public in Larissa, the accident occurred just outside of the city, for blood donations to deal with the injured. We are also hearing that many parents have gathered outside of the hospitals. Many loved ones waiting for the identification process. The health minister a short while ago saying that this is a terrifying process for parents and relatives who are here, we will help them as much as we can.
 <br>[03:10:00]
 
There are some difficulties in the identification process. The first three carriages were heavily impacted. The first two caught lights. You will see mangled metal. We've got cranes, as you can see on your screen right now, working through to try and see if there are more people trapped underneath.
 
Here is the fear, that this is a route that is traveled mostly by students, professionals. It was a three-day break in Greece. Many people returning back to Thessaloniki. A cargo train on the same line, from what we're hearing from the national broadcast, collided with the passenger train.
 
And there are many questions as to how this happened. Was it a human error? Was there a technical error? Going further, digging deeper into the story, we are also seeing many questions arising as to how this possibly could happen.
 
But we're also seeing some international response. I want to read you something from Ursula von der Leyen, E.U. Commission president, saying, my thoughts are with the people of Greece, a terrible train accident that claimed so many lives near Larissa. The whole of Europe is mourning with you. She ends her tweet by saying "we are with you, we are standing by you."
 
There are 150 firefighters on-site right now, Rosemary, trying to work through the rubble. Time, of course, is of the essence. Psychologists are on-site at the hospital. There is a concern that the death toll is going to rise. The total number of 346 passengers if not fully accounted for, but we know 200 people have been taken to safety thus far.
 
CHURCH:  Yeah. It is a horrifying situation for those people. I know you'll continue to update us on the situation. Eleni Giokos, many thanks for that.
 
And still to come, a deadly task in Ukraine, diffusing the mines and traps left behind by Russian forces. Coming up, CNN follows a Ukrainian team risking their lives to make their country safe again.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:15:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  The long battle for Bakhmut appears to be reaching a crescendo as Russian forces intensified their assault and Ukraine's military holds on despite being outnumbered. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says in his nightly message that the biggest challenge across the long frontline is in Bakhmut. One of the president's advisers tell CNN Ukraine's military will weigh all options, including strategically pulling back if needed.
 
Ukraine says the city is not surrounded, though one commander says Russia's constant shelling and bombardment are breaking the city into molecules. Several thousand civilians are still believed to be caught in the fighting and mostly cut off from humanitarian aid.
 
Ukrainian soldiers say the situation in Bakhmut is hellish and much worse than officially reported, but they're vowing to defend the city until the end no matter what.
 
In areas that Ukraine has liberated from the Russians, there is dangerous work to be done. CNN's Alex Marquardt takes us near the frontline where so many unexploded mines litter the ground, it could take decades to clear them all.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice- over):  The hulking armored mine clearer lurches into an open field. Over 40 tons, it spews exhaust, its tracks struggling across the muddy ground. Following close behind, the mine clearance team called sappers, they advance deliberately on the hunt for deadly explosives. This is delicate work.
 
(On camera):  This was a Russian position, Russian trenches, and now these guys are working through here carefully, methodically, looking for mines, for booby traps, and even Ukrainian ordinance that was fired at the Russians who were here.
 
(Voice-over):  Last September, a Ukrainian counteroffensive pushed the Russians out of these trenches. Now, Colonel Maxim Melnyk's (ph) team has been charged with clearing any explosives. 
 
They have left many traps behind and many of our brothers, our sappers, have died, Melnyk (ph) says. Russia doesn't obey international conventions. They put mines on top of mines. They leave booby traps and use banned mines.
 
Russian and Ukrainian mines are scattered throughout the eastern front, making Ukraine one of the biggest minefields in the world. Rockets and other explosives can often fail to detonate when they land, too, all of it posing immense danger to civilians.
 
The sappers of Ukraine's DSNS Emergency Service like Edward Harasamenko (ph), who is a father of a 10-year-old daughter, are keenly aware of the danger.
 
It's dangerous for everybody, he says. I wouldn't say we take more risks than others. Everybody is taking risks now.
 
Harasamenko (ph) was demining before the war started. Seeing what Russia has done to his country infuriates him. They are just animals, he says. There's no other way to describe them.
 
He finds and carries an unexploded rocket-propelled grenade to the side. Working day after day, all across this country, deminers know how much they still have left to do.
 
(On camera):  After the war, the soldiers get to go home, but your work will continue for years.
 
(Voice-over):  We will keep working for decades, Colonel Melnyk (ph) says. This will go on for decades.
 
Alex Marquardt, CNN, in Eastern Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
CHURCH:  And joining us live from London is CNN's Salma Abdelaziz. Good morning to you, Salma. So, Russia's President Putin met with members of his federal security service Tuesday and acknowledged losses on the battlefield. What all did he say about this and, of course, other issues? 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN REPORTER:  Yes, a very public speech from President Putin to the FSB. Of course, that's intelligence arm of Russia's government. In this speech, he instructs his security services, his intelligence services, to step up their work in what he says is a growing sabotage, attacks, covert attacks by western intelligence agencies.
 
President Putin giving very clear instructions to his men. He says they need to stop what he calls sabotage groups that are entering Ukraine. He orders them to prevent -- again, President Putin calls illegal flow of arms into Russia. He orders them to halt what he calls the activation of cells, terrorist cells, again, President Putin's own words, by western intelligence agencies inside Russia.
 
Really tough message there from a man who was himself the head of the FSB in the late 1990s. But he does also acknowledge the sacrifices made by his men. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): Unfortunately, there are losses in our ranks. The leadership of the FSB must do everything to provide additional support to the families of our fallen comrades. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS:  Now, this message from President Putin comes as we see more and more signs of this shadow war. In any conflict, Rosemary, of course, there is what we see happening openly on the battlefield, and then there are covert actions, things that are taking place in the shadows between rival intelligence agencies, and the markings of that are being seen.
 
Just yesterday, Russian officials accused Ukraine of carrying out a covert drone attack. We have video to show you of that multiple drone attacks secretly across Russian territory, one hitting a Gazprom facility. Ukraine has not confirmed that it is behind this attack. It has not commented. But it is not the only time that Russia has accused Ukraine of these covert drone attacks.
 
In December, there was also a similar accusation of covert drone attacks by Ukraine from Russian officials who say that those drones were able to strike inside an airbase inside Russian territory, leading to damage, leading to loss of life.
 
There are few other indications of what President Putin might perceive as intelligence failures from the Kerch Bridge blast to the assassination of the daughter of a very top Putin ally.
 
But it also important to note here, Rosemary, that this was not an internal message. This was a very public speech reported by state media that we're reporting here. So, there's also a message here from President Putin to his rivals, which is, I will be stepping up in this shadow war, be prepared. 
 
CHURCH:  All right, Salma Abdelaziz, many thanks for that live report.
 
The U.S. says China has been supporting Russia's war in Ukraine from the beginning, even if it has not provided any lethal aid yet. Thirteen Chinese companies have already been blacklisted for helping Moscow, including one the U.S. says was supplying parts to the Iranian drone program.
 
U.S. lawmakers say they will not hesitate to hold Beijing accountable. And Secretary of State Antony Blinken warns there will be consequences for any move to help Russia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  We will not hesitate, for example, to target Chinese companies or individuals that violate our sanctions or otherwise engage in supporting the Russian war effort. China can't have it both ways when it comes to the Russian aggression in Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  Meantime, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko is in Beijing to meet with Chinese leaders, including President Xi Jinping. It comes after Lukashenko held talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin over the weekend. The U.S. State Department says China's engagement with Belarus is just another sign of Beijing's growing relationship with Russia.
 
And CNN's Kristie Lu Stout joins me now from Hong Kong with more. Good to see, Kristie. So, what message is China trying to send here with the optics of this state visit of Belarusian President Lukashenko and what all is expected to be discussed during this trip?
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Rosemary, it is a very clear message, China is literally rolling out the red carpet for a critical Putin ally. Keep in mind that last year, Belarus allowed Russia to use its territory as a launchpad for its invasion of Ukraine.
 
So now, we have the state visit underway in China with the leader of Belarus expected to meet with Chinese Leader Xi Jinping later this afternoon to discuss a whole range of issues, including trade, investment, economic issues, humanitarian cooperation, according to Belarus state media, as well as acute international challenges. This meeting will continue until tomorrow.
 <br>[03:24:58]
 
We've also learned that the leader of Belarus has already met with the Chinese premier, Li Keqiang. And according to a statement that was released by the government of Belarus, Li Keqiang hailed the long-term relationship between these two countries. We will bring up the statement for you.
 
Again, Chinese premier saying this, this afternoon, during the state visit. Quote -- "Our relations are built on the basis of cooperation and mutual benefit. Our relations have very broad prospects for development. I am sure the Chinese-Belarusian relations are developing on the basis of long-term friendship."
 
This visit comes as the relationship sours between China and the United States as Washington accuses China of considering to send lethal aid to Russia. China has repeatedly pushed back on that allegation while accusing Washington of pouring weapons into Ukraine.
 
China claims to be a neutral party to the war in Ukraine as it continues this no limits relationship, this alliance with Russia. On Friday, China released that 12-point position paper on peace for Ukraine, calling for an end of hostilities, calling for talks. But a number of western leaders criticized that plan. And with this state visit underway, that criticism will come to the floor once again. Back to you.
 
CHURCH:  All right, Kristie Lu Stout joining us live from Hong Kong, many thanks.
 
Still to come, more talk of COVID origin theories from U.S. officials. Hear the theory the FBI says holds the most weight, just ahead.
 
Plus, growing concerns over food insecurity as a pandemic era meal assistance program ends here in the United States. We will talk to an expert what this means for millions of Americans.
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH:  Another U.S. federal agency is sharing its opinion about the origins of the coronavirus. FBI director Christopher Wray acknowledged on Tuesday that the bureau believes COVID-19 most likely originated from a Chinese lab leak. It's the same conclusion the U.S. Department of Energy came to in a classified report, drawing negative reaction from Beijing. Here is what the FBI director said to Fox News. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRISTOPHER WRAY, FBI DIRECTOR:  The FBI has for quite some time now assessed that the origins of the pandemic are most likely a potential lab incident in Wuhan. So, here you're talking about a potential leak from a Chinese government-controlled lab that killed millions of Americans. And that's precisely what that capability was designed for. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  One of the last aid programs from the COVID pandemic in the United States is ending on Wednesday, in the coming hours, in fact. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program or SNAP benefits provided millions of Americans with extra help to buy food during the pandemic. Many states had already let this benefit expire. And now the remaining 32 states will end the program as well. 
 
The additional food stamps will be discontinued, even as inflation in the U.S. continues to soar. Andrew CHEYNE is the managing director of Public Policy at Grays and Child Poverty California, and he joins me now from San Francisco. Appreciate you being with us. 
 
ANDREW CHEYNE, MANAGING DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC POLICY, GRACE &amp; END CHILD POVERTY CALIFORNIA:  Thank you so much. 
 
CHURCH: So, the COVID Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program known as SNAP, ends today, leaving tens of millions of Americans in 32 states without those benefits. Meaning, of course, that less money for food each month at a time when inflation is at record levels. So, how much money will the SNAP Households lose and what impact will this likely have particularly on children? 
 
CHEYNE:  Thanks for the question and thanks for your attention to this. Unfortunately, it's a very serious day. Here we are, when the emergency allotments for the SNAP program, often known as food stamps, are ending. They're ending prematurely because of actions taken by Congress. And so, we're talking about real dollars coming out of people's pocketbooks and the grocery budgets. 
 
We know that on average, in California alone, more than 5 million people who rely on the SNAP program to eat are losing $82 per person a month. And statewide, that actually is $500 million a month, a half a billion dollars a month that's coming out of our food economy in aggregate. 
 
And once folks go over this cliff, the SNAP benefit is going to average about $2 per person a meal or $6 per person a day. And as you point out, with the rampant high cost of food and other pressures on rent, on utilities, we are looking at very serious consequences for food insecurity or really devastating choices between eating, taking your medicine, putting a roof over your head if you are fortunate, and extraordinary pressures on children and families who we know often face the highest levels of food insecurity already, now going into an unprecedented hunger cliff. 
 <br>[03:34:55]
 
CHURCH:  That is a dire situation. So, how many Americans are we actually talking about when it comes to losing these SNAP benefits that gave extra government funds for groceries and how do these people now feed themselves and their kids? 
 
CHEYNE:  So, we know that the emergency allotments were still in place in the majority of states, in about 32 states. And there were several large states, including California, Texas, New York, Ohio, many large states. This means that on the aggregate, it's about 75 percent of the 41 million Americans who are accessing the SNAP Program. 
 
So, roughly 30 million Americans are going over this hunger cliff right now. Certainly, many of them will be turning to emergency food resources and the incredible work by food banks, food pantries, and that charitable food system. But to give you some perspective, the scale of the SNAP Program is simply incomparable to the charitable sector. 
 
For every one meal that charities are able to provide, SNAP delivers nine. And so, there is going to be incredible stress and hardship as folks are looking to try and make ends meet. And one of the best things that people can do is to contact their eligibility worker, might be their state, might be their county, depending on where they're located, and try and maximize their SNAP benefit. 
 
One thing that folks haven't had to worry about during the emergency allotments is making sure that all of their expenses are accounted for. Their shelter costs, their dependent care costs, their medical costs. And so, making sure that all of those costs, those receipts are on file can help actually maximize their underlying SNAP benefit and mitigate this hunger cliff. 
 
CHURCH:  And of course, an effort is underway right now to make sure that all Americans affected by this change know about it. But inevitably, some, of course, will be taken by surprise next month when they suddenly realize SNAP benefits have expired. So, what happens to those people given food banks can't even keep up with demand right now? So what other benefits are available? 
 
CHEYNE:  Well, one of the most serious situations we're concerned about is the fact that if and when folks don't know that this change is happening, and they are accustomed to making ends meet by having emergency allotments, it's very likely that folks will be headed to the grocery store, anticipating that money being in their account, and not being able to afford those groceries to feed themselves and their families. 
 
So, that's the exact situation we're trying to prevent. But this is, again, a situation that we've never been through. The magnitude of the loss of economic benefits to the SNAP program provides is really something we've never seen. And so, it's going to be very challenging for households in the field. CHURCH:  Yeah, absolutely. Andrew CHEYNE, thank you so much for
 
 talking with us and taking us through this step-by-step. Appreciate it. 
 
CHEYNE:  Thank you so much. I would just end by saying there are actions that Congress can take as well. And we call upon them to pass the Closing the Meal Gap Act, which would actually boost that benefit adequacy and mitigate this cliff. Thank you for having me. 
 
CHURCH:  Let's see if they do that. Thank you so much. 
 
And just ahead, after a controversial election, Africa's largest democracy has a new president. We'll have a live report from Lagos. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:40:00]
 
CHURCH:  Nigeria has declared the winner of its controversial presidential election. Bola Ahmed Tinubu will now lead Africa's largest economy, despite a growing outcry from opposition leaders and independent observers, who say the vote was rigged. Tinubu supporters celebrated his victory at party headquarters in Abuja. 
 
And CNN's Stephanie Busari joins us now live from Lagos. Good to see you again, Stephanie. So, what is the latest on the reaction to Bola Ahmed Tinubu's win and what happens next? 
 
STEPHANIE BISARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR, AFRICA:  Well, Nigerians are waking up to this new dawn, a new president-elect. The results were announced at 4:00 a.m., while they were sleeping. And so, reaction is trickling in. President Buhari, outgoing president, has said that this is the best man for the job, and other leaders are sending their congratulations. 
 
But the opposition are saying that they are not accepting these results. In the last hour, the spokesman for the PVP Party has said that they will be staging a joint press conference with Peter Obi later today and reacting to these results. Not probably much different from what they've said previously, but they will have to go to court. That is the only recourse available to them now. It's a legal battle. 
 
And Nigerian elections don't really get overturned, presidential ones anyway, don't get overturned in court. So, this result is likely here to stay, Rosemary. Many Nigerians probably do not feel that these results will change much in their life. Nigerians have to do so much for themselves anyway. 
 
They generate their own electricity, they generate their own water supply, they pay for their own security. So, that social contract between government and citizen that many enjoy around the world does not really exist here. And that's reflected in the voter turnout, Rosemary -- 27 percent, just 24 million people turned out to vote. 
 <br>[03:44:58] There were some complaints of voter suppression. But if and so, analysts are saying that the naira crunch and also (inaudible) may have contributed to this low turnout, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  All right, Stephanie Busari joining us live from Lagos. Many thanks. 
 
Iran's foreign minister recently sat down with our Christiane Amanpour for an exclusive interview covering a range of topics, including the alleged sexual abuse of anti-government protesters in the custody of Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR:  When you say the Islamic Republic of Iran respect human rights, one female protester says that she was detained inside a Revolutionary Guard facility for more than a month and raped by three different men. She went to a cleric, a mullah, afterwards, because she was having suicide thoughts, she was so upset. CNN spoke with that cleric. Is that acceptable? Is it acceptable for a woman, whatever she's done, to be arrested and raped? And there are many, many, many reports of sexual abuse in this situation against women and men. 
 
HOSSEIN AMIR-ABDOLLAHIAN, IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translation):  Firstly, in the peaceful demonstrations in the fall, no one was arrested. 
 
AMANPOUR:  So, you're just denying that? 
 
AMIR-ABDOLLAHIAN (through translation):  However, in those protests that have become violent, some individuals, some of whom had entered Iran from the outside, and we're using firearms and killing the police, were arrested. You do know that the Supreme Leader actually issued an amnesty. and all of those who are imprisoned were released, with the exception of those who had killed someone or were being sued. Regarding the Iranian woman that you mentioned, I cannot confirm it. There have been so many such baseless claims made on social media and in media. 
 
AMANPOUR:  Okay, these are not baseless and they weren't on the internet. CNN spoke to a cleric, a religious person, inside your country and got this story. 
 
AMIR-ABDOLLAHIAN (through translation):  We have seen some of CNN's reports that are targeted and false. 
 
AMANPOUR:  That's not true. We report the facts and we report the truth. And that's why you are sitting here with me, Mr. Foreign Minister. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH:  And you can tune into Christiane Amanpour's exclusive interview with the Iranian foreign minister on Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. in Geneva, 6:00 p.m. in London, only here on CNN. Still to come, heritage sites spanning centuries are wiped out and
 
 cultural centers now lie in ruins after the devastating earthquake in Turkey. We will look at some of the places many fears will be impossible to rebuild. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
CHURCH:  The death toll from last month's massive earthquake in Turkey and Syria has now risen to more than 51,000. Meanwhile, the Turkish Red Crescent is under fire for selling tents to another charity organization, instead of giving them for free to some of the tens of thousands of people left homeless.
 
The group's president says he didn't know about the sale. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has promised new homes for those displaced by the quake, saying they will be built within a year. The earthquake not only destroyed countless lives, it also wiped-out ancient sites and reduced historic cities to rubble. And rebuilding is now a daunting if not impossible task. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  If you were the souls that roam the streets of what's left of Antakya, ancient Antioch where empires once stood, now a decimated ghost town. 
 
(On camera):  The scale of the destruction here is just immense. Damaged and destroyed buildings everywhere you look. And you've got mountains of debris that stretch for miles and miles. 
 
(Voice-over):  Gone are the streets of the vibrant old city, once lined with boutique hotels, restaurants and antique shops. One morning I woke up, my home, my friends, my city, everything I lived is gone, he says. Mother nature's unforgiving force has wiped out history, heritage sites spanning centuries, and cultures now lying-in ruins. 
 
Like this 7th century Habib-I Nejjar Mosque, one of Anatolia's first. And this 14th century church, once the seat of the Greek orthodox patriarch, reduced to rubble. It's not the first time earthquakes have damaged the church, but never has the future of its people been so uncertain. It is from Antioch where Christianity spread to the world, Father Dimitri (ph) (inaudible) tells us. He's now mourning 40 of his dwindling 1,000-member congregation.
 
We were trying to return to this land. Our history and the books will remain, he tells us. But right now, our history is gone, the city is gone. I have two sons. There is no future left in the city now for our children. 
 
Antakya was one of the few Turkish cities were Muslims, Christians, and Jews still live side by side. That may be no more. Its synagogue was barely damaged and the 500-year-old Torah scrolls rescued, but a beloved Jewish leader and his wife didn't make it. Saul and Fortuna Cenudioglu were among the last Jews of Antakya. ELA CENUDIOGLU, NIECE OF JEWISH COMMUNITY LEADER KILLED IN EARTHQUAKE:
 
 He worked really hard to keep up the Jewish values and the community together. He was the leader of the Jewish community there, the tiny community of 15 people. 
 <br>[03:55:00]
 
The other uncles, they all move to Israel. And this uncle, he really loved Antakya. He was really connected to his roots. 
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over):  In their Istanbul apartment, the grieving Cenudioglu family sip a cup of Antioch coffee, a taste of a home they lived years ago. 
 
CENUDIOGLU:  My pastor is gone. Hopefully, this too will be rebuilt and it will recover by time. But there was a certain flare to it, the community, the feeling of diversification and everyone living peacefully together. And I always believed it reflected, like Turkey. To be honest, I'm worried that it will fade away. 
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over):  As the sun sets on Antakya, no one knows when and how Antioch and its people will ever rise again but. Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Antakya, Turkey. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHURCH:  And thank you for spending part of your day with me. I'm Rosemary Church. "CNN Newsroom" continues next with Max Foster. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:00:00]