Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Blinken To Urge Calm During Middle East Trip; Pakistan Mosque Attack; More Heavy Rain Expected Across Northern New Zealand. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired January 30, 2023 - 10:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:55]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: High stakes diplomacy. The U.S. Secretary of State is in the Middle East urging calm on all sides of the 
 
 days of deadly violence between Israelis and Palestinians.
 
The Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for a deadly mosque blast that kills many worshippers and leaves more than 100 injured. We're alive in 
 
 Islamabad for you.
 
And continued heavy rains leave large parts of New Zealand flooded. When will these storms let up? I'll get you a forecast this hour.
 
I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. Hello and welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD. The time here is 7:00 in the evening. And we begin with a new sense of 
 
 urgency in this region sparked by rising and deadly violence between Israelis and Palestinians. The start of this year, 2023 in the Middle East 
 
 has been one of the deadliest in years. And America's top diplomat now scrambling to try to deescalate what he calls a horrifying surge in 
 
 violence.
 
Right now, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in Jerusalem. He's talking with the Israeli Prime Minister. Benjamin Netanyahu leads the 
 
 country's new hard-right government. Blinken has been giving the word calm a workout today. And in the next few minutes, he and Mr. Netanyahu are due 
 
 to speak to the media and we will of course cover that for you.
 
Well, ahead of that and as we get to it, we've got team coverage of this incredibly important mission that the U.S. Secretary of State is now on 
 
 region. CNN's Hadas Gold is in Jerusalem. Kylie Atwood is at the U.S. State Department in Washington, D.C. Let's start with you, Hadas. U.S. Secretary 
 
 of State arrives in country at a very, very difficult time. Just describe the context for this visit, please.
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Becky. When the Secretary of State landed, he called it a pivotal moment. But really, it's more than 
 
 that. It's a high stakes crisis moment because although this trip was pre planned, the timing is of incredible importance and sort of the competence 
 
 of the time that he happens to be arriving after what was one of the worst blood periods of bloodshed and essentially a three-day period.
 
Last Thursday was the deadliest day for West Bank Palestinians in years. And then Friday night, you had one of the worst -- what Israeli police say 
 
 is one of the worst terrorist attacks that Israelis have experienced that shooting outside of a synagogue in years. And we're already hearing in the 
 
 days after that, there was another shooting on Saturday, we're hearing of an increasing number of reports of settler attacks against Palestinian 
 
 property and Palestinians in the occupied West Bank.
 
So, there's a lot of hope that Secretary of State Blinken will be able to potentially bring the temperature down just a little bit on the ground 
 
 because it is absolutely boiling right now. But I have to say, there's not a lot of optimism that he will be able to completely stop the cycle because 
 
 I think that would take some really broader bigger steps than what Secretary of State Blinken do in a two-day trip.
 
But he's definitely going to try and there is a lot of hopes that he will be able to at least make some real concrete steps forward that will at 
 
 least help sort of slow things down just a little bit.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. He's been in Egypt seeking help a little earlier today ahead of landing in Tel Aviv. He's spoken with the Egyptians. We heard him with 
 
 the foreign minister there. He has spoken to the President Sisi. Kylie, let me bring you in at this point. He will also be in the West Bank on this 
 
 trip into region. What does Secretary Blinken bring with regard -- the message from the U.S. President at this point?
 
What can he do and what's his relationship with this new Netanyahu government?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECRETARY CORRESPONDENT: Well, already expected to be a challenging visit even before we saw this wave of violence erupt last 
 
 week.
 <br>[10:05:06]
 
 And I think that that's really important to know because this is his first time visiting Israel since Netanyahu's far-right government has come into 
 
 power. And that is a government that has already exacerbated tensions between the Israelis and Palestinians.
 
So, this was already going to be a challenge for the Secretary of State. But it's important, as you note that he is also seeing the other side here. 
 
 He will be sitting down with the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas. And just the fact that there will be images of the U.S. Secretary of State 
 
 meeting with both sides at this time could be something that could bring down tensions a little bit.
 
It is recognition from the Biden administration that they are still committed to a two-state solution even though I think it's really important 
 
 to know that we have seen very little active movement to pursue that end outcome from this administration. It is clear that they're trying to put a 
 
 focus on it as they come into, you know, their second, third year of a Biden administration here.
 
And so, what they can do is really the question, but it's notable that the Secretary of State is seeing both sides urgent calm, as you said, and 
 
 saying that the onus is essentially on everyone involved to try and ratchet down these tensions right now.
 
ANDERSON: Hadas, you are in Jerusalem. That may be Secretary Blinken 's intention to work through these optics that he's seem to be talking to both 
 
 sides. Is that likely to help when you consider what is going on on the ground? Just describe the atmosphere, if you will.
 
GOLD: I mean, the atmosphere is incredibly tense. Just here in Jerusalem, there were two shootings in the span of about 15 hours on Friday night set 
 
 at the synagogue and then Saturday morning. And you see -- you can see the increased number of securities on the ground. I mean, obviously now because 
 
 of the secretary of state visits. But even before then, and there is the feeling, the anticipation that more is coming.
 
But in terms of what the Secretary can do in practical terms, think that when he meets with Netanyahu, and he's meeting with him now, within 
 
 minutes, we are expecting to hear from them speaking. I think he will go to Netanyahu and say, look, we you put out this plan of action after these 
 
 terrorist attacks but some of them may need to be moderated. Can you please pull these back a little bit?
 
Some of these are things that have been criticized as collective punishment. For example, Israelis, often they demolish the houses of 
 
 attackers. And there's now talk potentially putting forward legislation that would revoke the residency and Israeli identity cards of families of 
 
 attacker. So not just people who've been accused of terrorism themselves, but their families as well.
 
And so, I also think he will be asking Netanyahu about the settlements because this is something that's a point of contention between this Israeli 
 
 government and the American administration. And as we've been hearing about an increase, especially in the last 48 hours or so, increasing number of 
 
 attacks by Israeli settlers towards Palestinian cars and property and Palestinians themselves in the occupied West Bank, I think he will be 
 
 asking to essentially help potentially rein that in.
 
But you also have to keep in mind what Netanyahu was facing internally, domestically here. This is the most far right religious government many say 
 
 in Israeli history. And there are some members of his own government, some of his own ministers, including like the National Security Minister Itamar 
 
 Ben Gvir who have been calling for the government to go even further, even calling for things like the death penalty for terrorists.
 
And so, it'll be interesting to see how Netanyahu balances the American pressure, the international pressure and his own internal domestic 
 
 political pressure. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes. And Kylie, just pick me up on that. How does this ultra- right-wing government in Israel change the narrative from either the Biden administration, Joe Biden himself or the Secretary of State at this point? 
 
 How does it complicate things?
 
ATWOOD: Well, this administration has really tried its best to say, we're not going to consider the personalities of the new Netanyahu far right 
 
 administration. What we're going to consider are their policies. And I think that Hadas really gets at it with the conversations that are going to 
 
 be had, trying to dive into some of the policies that they're trying to implement here with the Secretary of State, you know, not being overly 
 
 critical out of the gates here because they really want to establish a relationship with the Israeli government before coming out and condemning 
 
 every single little thing that they think that they can actually get somewhere.
 
And so, it is complicated because there are questions as to how far Netanyahu can go working with the Biden administration. And it's important 
 
 to note that historically, Netanyahu has been viewed as a prime minister who is closer to the Republicans and was very close with President Trump. 
 
 And so, even that backdrop complicates things even more.
 <br>[10:10:04]
 
ANDERSON: Kylie, very briefly. This is an administration that talks about wanting to see a two-state solution. Does it genuinely believe that that is 
 
 still a realistic option?
 
ATWOOD: I think that is a complicated question to answer. They say that they genuinely believe it. But privately, I think there is a recognition 
 
 that the region is going in a different direction right now. And so, that is something that they will have to grapple with. But as I said, you know, 
 
 this is not a region that the Biden administration has really put front and center when it comes to its foreign policy agenda.
 
You know, it focuses on China, it has to focus on the Ukraine war. And so, maybe we will see a little bit more of a focus and, you know, what it means 
 
 to them to still prioritize a two-state solution, but we really haven't seen any actual effort on that angle.
 
ANDERSON: Fascinating. Look, good to have you guys on. We are waiting to hear from Antony Blinken, the U.S. Secretary of State. He will talk to the 
 
 media alongside the Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. We are expecting that to happen anytime soon. And we will get that to our viewers and we'll 
 
 bring you back as and when that happens.
 
Well, meantime, let me just get you the other headlines this hour. The Pakistani Taliban are claiming responsibility for a deadly attack inside a 
 
 mosque in the Northwest city of Peshawar. At least 34 people were killed and more than 100 wounded in what is a suspected suicide attack.
 
CNN cannot independently verify the group's claims. It happened during afternoon prayers inside a mosque mostly attended by law enforcement 
 
 officials. Pakistan's Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif is strongly condemning the blast. Let's get you the very latest from Sofia Saifi who is in 
 
 Islamabad in Pakistan. Sofia?
 
SOPHIA SAIFI, CNN PRODUCER: Becky, we've just found out that that number that you just said is actually increased. We know that when this attack 
 
 happened, this blast happened just about over five hours ago, people have still been trapped in the rubble because the blast was of such a magnitude 
 
 that the ceiling of the mosque caved in and fell on these worshipers. Rescue efforts are still underway to get those people that are stuck under 
 
 that rubble.
 
So that number has increased to about 45 there. There are fears that that number is going to continue to increase. Now when it comes to the Pakistani 
 
 Taliban, there has been a situation here in Pakistan ever since November of last year that there was this tenuous ceasefire between the Pakistani 
 
 government and the Pakistani Taliban. And that has since fallen apart. There's been a state of heightened security and major cities across the 
 
 country.
 
There was an attempted suicide attack in the heart of the Capitol in the end of last year, the end -- last week of December. There have been fears 
 
 that there are going to be similar attacks that just took place, for example, in Peshawar this afternoon. We do know that there have --there has 
 
 been an increase in attacks in the north of Pakistan targeting the military, targeting law enforcement agencies, targeting the state.
 
The Taliban -- Pakistani Taliban have come out and said in the statement that they will be targeting the Pakistani Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif. 
 
 This is a sort of deja vu for the people of the Peshawar who have seen many similar heinous attacks take place in their city. And many of these 
 
 families of Peshawar will be burying their dead tonight. And this has been a situation with -- that somehow improved over the past couple of years.
 
But ever since the fall of Kabul in the summer of 2021, there have been accusations by the Pakistani government and the Pakistani military that the 
 
 Afghan Taliban, the Afghan government in place right now in Kabul has been harboring the Pakistani Taliban and giving them a safe haven to take out 
 
 these attacks on Pakistani soil. So, it is a situation which is playing into regional politics.
 
It's playing into the sense of security that Pakistanis have been lulled into over the past couple of years. And we're just going to have to wait 
 
 and see whether this cycle is going to restart here in Pakistan. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Sophia Saifi is on the ground for you as the details continue to come in. Thank you. 
 
Well, diplomatic tensions are intensifying following a drone strike against a military plant in central Iran that happens Saturday. Iran has summoned 
 
 Ukraine's envoy after a top Ukrainian official appeared to link the attack to Iran previously sending drones to Russia.
 
Meanwhile, U.S. media outlets are citing reports by unnamed officials claiming that Israel was behind the strike. Salma Abdelaziz following 
 
 developments from London. And there does seem to be more information coming in as to just who was behind this attack. What are we learning at this 
 
 point?
 <br>[10:15:02]
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely. Questions and concerns after this weekend attack in Iran. According to Iranian state media on 
 
 Saturday night. Three drones, three small drones targeted a military complex, a factory in the central city of Isfahan. According to Iranian 
 
 state media, again, all three of those drones were destroyed and there was minimal damage to the roof of this army factory and no casualties.
 
Now Iran has not accused any certain group or country of carrying out this attack. But U.S. officials believe that Israel could be behind it. That's 
 
 according to The New York Times and Wall Street Journal, both publications separately speaking to unnamed U.S. officials. Now CNN cannot independently 
 
 verify that, but there has been a history of course of Israel carrying out covert attacks in Iran, ones that it does not claim responsibility for, but 
 
 that aim to deter diminish Iran's nuclear program.
 
Now separately, you mentioned the Ukraine issue. Ukraine has accused Iran of providing drones and missiles and other weaponry to Russia that has been 
 
 used in its invasion in Ukraine. That's why Iran's -- Ukraine's presidential adviser, a top official tweeted about this attack, saying it 
 
 was an explosive night in Iran using the Ukrainian flag there and saying, we did warn you. As you mentioned, a top diplomat called in by Iran's 
 
 foreign ministry to express their concern.
 
But I do know all of this is very confusing. All of this part of a shadow war in the Middle East. But if you take a step back, it's really an 
 
 indication of just how isolated Iran has become. How few diplomatic channels are left between to Iran in the West. A lot of that due to 
 
 demonstrations that over the last few months have resulted in a major crackdown by Iranian authorities.
 
The response to that from the West, the United States and its allies has been to further sanction Iran to end, essentially the JCPOA. These attempts 
 
 to restart nuclear negotiations. All of that, of course, resulting in an Iran that's ever turning to Moscow. And according to Western officials, 
 
 ever more isolated from these diplomatic channels, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Salma Abdulaziz monitoring the story from London for you. Salma, thank you. You are watching CONNECT THE WORLD. It is quarter past 7:00 here 
 
 in the UAE.
 
Coming up. Fighting ramps up in eastern and southern Ukraine. One military official calling it a living hell. More alert after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: A living hell. That is how one Ukrainian commander describes the situation in and around the city of Bakhmut as fighting in the east and 
 
 south grows more intense.
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
Well, authorities also report more casualties and damage to civilian infrastructure including this attack in Kharkiv. At least one person was 
 
 reportedly killed after a missile turned the upper floors of this residential building into a pile of rubble.
 
Well, today President Volodymyr Zelenskyy met with the Danish Prime Minister in Mykolaiv. The two leaders visited wounded soldiers in a 
 
 hospital while Mr. Zelenskyy gave medals to medical staff.
 
CNN's Sam Kiley is in Kyiv. And Sam, we have been reporting now on fighting in the east and in the south for some time. What do we know? I mean, you 
 
 know, that -- we report on this on a daily basis when you step back and sort of work out, you know, what the picture is. What are you seeing?
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Becky, I think the most dramatic developments in the last week or so have been very intensive 
 
 Russian bombardments of the town of Vuhledar which is south of Bakhmut. Still in Donetsk Oblast or province. The -- of course, a large chunk of 
 
 that province has been illegally annexed by Russia going back to 2014. But they have been putting a huge amount of effort into trying to capture the 
 
 town of Bakhmut that you mentioned there. The living hell as it's being described.
 
And I'm in touch with soldiers who are on the front line there, both Ukrainian and foreign volunteers, and that definitely fits their 
 
 description. In one foreign unit, for example, of about 12 men, they've almost been entirely wiped out. Six killed, six wounded in the last two or 
 
 three weeks. So, an intense battle going on in Bakhmut. But Vuhledar has been the focus of Russian efforts, I think for two reasons, first of all, 
 
 to try to draw Ukrainian forces away from Bakhmut.
 
And secondly, to try to -- if they can capture that town and push through it. That would make it easier to encircle Bakhmut and reduce its supply 
 
 line capabilities. So, there was a very intense fighting going on there. There have also been Russian -- an increase in Russian fighting in the 
 
 south of the country to the east of the Ukrainian health city of Zaporizhzhia. It's a long east-west front line that has been fairly quiet 
 
 now for some months.
 
But in the last few weeks, Becky, that has also seen not as dramatic an uptick -- as an uptick as you've seen in the east but also, the Russians 
 
 probably launching probing attacks there. And there has been an anticipation for some time that perhaps the Ukrainians themselves might 
 
 launch a counter offensive along that Southern Front. So, a lot of maneuvering going on just as President Zelenskyy is suggesting that he 
 
 really desperately needs to get hold of aircraft. 
 
They've had of course, as you know, Becky, the pledge of tanks of French -- Ukrainian ambassador to France says that they've got the pledge of over 350 
 
 tanks. If that, it comes through that would be a step in the right direction from Ukraine's perspective but they really are very insistent 
 
 that they need aircraft and they need surface-to-air missiles for air defenses because they do understand that the Russians have the edge when it 
 
 comes to personnel and share weight of numbers.
 
And although it's unsophisticated, of course, they've got a very large amount of equipment. What is also striking though, I should stress, Becky 
 
 is around Bakhmut where the Wagner mercenary organization, the Russian mercenary organization has been fighting, Becky. It's very striking that 
 
 they are sending human waves into this battle, not using heavy armor, not using tanks or even armored personnel carriers, but rather human beings to 
 
 try to punch through the Ukrainian lines, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: This is absolutely remarkable. Last week, much talk about the importance that tanks would serve, that these tanks from the U.S. and 
 
 Germany and from other countries given permission to reexport these tanks into Ukraine would be -- would be the game changer. You know, we're in a 
 
 new week. And once again, and it's not for the first time that we've heard President Zelenskyy talking about the need for air power and surface-to-air 
 
 missiles and defense.
 
What likelihood that request will actually come good? Any likelihood at this point?
 
KILEY: Well, the German Chancellor Scholz has ruled out Germany supplying any and of course, it's the Germans who've given permission to their allies 
 
 and indeed they're making their own contribution of the Leopard 2 tanks. The Brits are sending 14 Challengers, so there's 31 Abrams tanks coming 
 
 from the United States and the -- right, they use this term game changer. 
 <br>[10:25:04]
 
They're not. Make no mistake. They're useful. The Ukrainians need them.
 
They need them to replace the lost tanks that they've had knocked out during now 11 months of fighting, but they are not a strategic weapon. What 
 
 they saying they need other long-range missiles, for example, that so far, particularly the United States is refusing to give them for fear that they 
 
 could be used against targets inside Russia, and thereby provoking an unequal response from Russia, possibly even a nuclear response.
 
And what's very interesting, though, in terms of the unity of agreement that has come about as a result of the tank deployment and supply process 
 
 is that there is a growing -- at least behind closed doors, a growing sense within NATO leaders. That Ukraine does need to get the sorts of strategic 
 
 weapons that it's been asking for in order to finish this job, in order to prevail in this war. Because as you and I have discussed in the past, 
 
 Becky, a frozen frontline in this country for Russia is victory. And that is something they really do not wish to see, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: No, fascinating. Good to have you there, Sam. We'll check back in with you, sir. Thank you. Sam, Kylie's in Kyiv for you with some really 
 
 important analysis there.
 
Well, you're watching CONNECT THE WORLD live from Abu Dhabi. Still ahead, power cuts in South Africa got worse in the past year. Leaving businesses 
 
 including farmers in the lurch. A live report from Johannesburg is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi. View at the time is just before half past 7:00.
 
Busy times in this region, the U.S. Secretary of State calling for calm as he visits the Middle East after a surge in violence. Blinken is in 
 
 Jerusalem this hour meeting with Israeli leaders including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and we should hear from both of them shortly. Well, 
 
 Blinken will also meet Palestinian leaders in the West Bank on Tuesday. Earlier today he sat down with Egypt's president in Cairo.
 
Blinken condemned the terrorist attack outside of Jerusalem synagogue that killed seven people last Friday. He's also cautioning any -- against any 
 
 revenge attacks.
 
But in South Africa, power cuts are disrupting the lives of millions of people. And businesses including farms are struggling to operate. Thousands 
 
 of chickens recently died because of the lack of power.
 <br>[10:30:06]
 
Rolling blackouts sometimes cut the electricity for half that the day. For more on what is this crisis, let's get you to CNN's David McKenzie who 
 
 joins me live from Johannesburg. And look, David, you know, an energy crisis is a familiar story to you and anybody who lives in South Africa. 
 
 But things are getting a whole lot worse. What are you learning?
 
DAVE MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, that's right, Becky. And it has over the last few months seem that much worse after many 
 
 years of these blackouts, which the government calls euphemistically load shedding. The truth is that tech just can't keep the power on. Sometimes 
 
 for many hours a day, it's an -- has an impact on everything, including food security.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCKENZIE (voice over): Tens of thousands of dead birds suffocated when the power failed. And surges blew the backup systems. It's the awful impact of 
 
 a country in crisis.
 
MCKENZIE (on camera): So, when you saw thousands of chickens die like this, what was it like for you?
 
HERMAN DU PREEZ, OWNER, FRANGIPANI FARMS: Glass of cold water in your face. It was so, so bad. It -- I never thought it would happen to me.
 
MCKENZIE (voice over): Herman Du Preez has struggled for months with up to 10 hours of rolling blackouts a day. He can't hide his anger at the 
 
 government.
 
PREEZ: I'm not asking them to do me a favor. Really, I don't. I will do my job. I will produce food. I'll wake up early, work on Sundays to produce 
 
 food for South Africa. I like what I'm doing. Just do your job. You have -- you have one thing to do. Just do it. Just give us power, please.
 
MCKENZIEL: But power is in short supply. The farm that Du Preez and his father built from scratch now runs at a loss during the worst blackouts. He 
 
 says diesel costs could sink them.
 
MCKENZIE (on camera): The President himself has admitted that corruption, sabotage or lack of skills has caused this issue. Why should this 
 
 government then be trusted to fix it?
 
VINCENT MAGWENYA, PRESIDENT RAMAPHOSA SPOKESPERSON: Well, David, as you know, this problem predates President Ramaphosa's time in 
 
 government.
 
MCKENZIE (voice over): Even the President now acknowledges that decades of mismanagement and breathtaking corruption, crippled state-owned power 
 
 utility, Eskom, a lack of maintenance, a deep skills deficit and regulatory red tape have all helped cause this crisis.
 
MCKENZIE (on camera): I'm going to repeat the same question, which is why should South Africans trust the government that caused this problem to fix 
 
 this problem?
 
MAGWENYA: We accept those mistakes. I've said it and the President has said it numerous times that there were massive, regrettable policy missteps that 
 
 led us to where we are now. However, now we're focusing on the solution and the opportunities that have been presented by this crisis.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Fallen to energy security forward.
 
CROWD: Forward.
 
MCKENZIE: Not everyone is buying it. The official opposition is calling for mass action.
 
MCKENZIE (on camera): You can sense the growing frustration in South Africa already. This crisis isn't just inconvenient for people. It can kill the 
 
 dreams of a better future.
 
MCKENZIE (voice over): A better future is what Thando Makhubu and his family strive for.
 
THANDO MAKHUBU, OWNER, SOWETO CREAMERY: Are you proud of your son?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, I am. But we used to fight a lot.
 
MAKHUBU: OK. That's caramel canyon.
 
MCKENZIE (voice over): Tanto turned a small government COVID grant into the Soweto Creamery. It's a huge hit here, thanks to the whole Makhubu family. 
 
 But when the power goes out, their profits evaporate.
 
MAKHUBU: So now, I'm about to turn on the generator.
 
MCKENZIE: Their plans to expand put on hold.
 
What do you want the government to do?
 
MAKHUBU: I want the government to be brutally honest with us. If they are able to fix it, please fix it. If they can't, we must -- let us know. And 
 
 it makes us feel that we are not really in a democracy. Because it's meant to be -- for the people, by the people. But it seems as if for them by 
 
 them, you know.
 
MCKENZIE: At the very least, Thano and all South Africans just desperately want the lights to be turned back on.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCKENZIE: Really can't overstate the impact this is having on this country and the potential impact as more marches are planned, Becky. The government 
 
 says and the President says they will cut red tape bringing more independent power producers, shift to renewable energy but speaking to many 
 
 experts over the last few months, this was the rarely foreseen this crisis and not enough was done to avoid it.
 
So, there is that deep distrust whether they can at the government level fix what is becoming a huge problem for South Africa. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes. On the -- on the plans and we hear of those plans about shifting to renewables, we've heard a lot about that through COP 27 -- COP 
 
 28 here in the UAE.
 <br>[10:35:08]
 
And we hear about the sort of, you know, the investment plans and the catalyzing of private financing to really help South Africa out, but this 
 
 is long term, David, mismanagement, cronyism and corruption. The government knows what is gone wrong, what has caused this, short term. What are they 
 
 suggesting as a solution?
 
MCKENZIE: Well, there's a crisis committee and a variety of plans put forward, including a partnership from Turkey to be brought in to have 
 
 diesel power offshore, brought in as an emergency basis. But if you look at the Ukraine war and the pressure on diesel prices, that's possibly the last 
 
 option for South Africa. You know, I've spoken to people who were in the room when it came to telling the government many, many years ago, just what 
 
 needed to be done. 
 
They did not do that for a host of reasons. And now it really is a potential crisis point and threatens the stability of this country. I think 
 
 in the months ahead. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Well, it affects its economic growth as well significantly. David, thank you.
 
Well, South African police are trying to find two gunmen who burst into a birthday party and open fire. Eight people at the party were killed and 
 
 three others were wounded in that incident. Police have not identified a motive for the attack. It is the latest in what is a growing trend of mass 
 
 shootings in South Africa.
 
Well, after record rainfall and severe flooding, more heavy rain is coming in northern New Zealand. Details on that after this. And there were not one 
 
 but two, not two, but six goals in the Wrexham match. Their owner Ryan Reynolds could not believe his eyes. They are the minnows, but who won?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: All right. Parts of northern New Zealand including Auckland are about to get hit with more heavy rain. That is on top of the severe 
 
 rainstorms and extensive flooding that have battered the region since Friday. Leaving at least four people dead. Well, officials don't expect 
 
 this storm to be as intense but the impact likely to be widespread because the ground is already saturated. As you can see in the shots. This man was 
 
 asleep when a landslide hit his neighborhood.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVE HARDING, TAURANGA RESIDENT: Full of a tornado, just a huge, huge crash. And that's all. 
 
 I look out the window I couldn't see anything. So, I'll just back -- going to get back to beta. I hear the kid screaming out here, sorry. We got some 
 
 clothes on, I went out and have a look and it was hard to comprehend what the heck it was to start with.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[10:40:10]
 
ANDERSON: Well, let's bring in our CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray with more on these floods. We've just heard from one resident there. I mean, he 
 
 clearly shocked as to what he's experiencing. What can residents there expect in the coming days?
 
JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Well, it's just been an unprecedented amount of rain and we're still going to get more rain in the coming days. 
 
 And you can see from the satellite image over the last 12 hours, moisture is still there. And so, we are going to get more rain. It's not going to be 
 
 as intense as we've seen over the last couple of days. But when you have these systems, they're basically compounding each other.
 
So, because of the impacts were so great before, you still have all of that flooding that's left any additional rainfall is not going to be good at 
 
 all, as you mentioned. So still under a high weather warning, significant flooding and passable roads, we could see communities isolated or cut off. 
 
 Look at the stadium here. Just all the water. This is an Auckland. We have received a summers worth of rain in a single day.
 
So, really incredible. This is Auckland, New Zealand you can see, 71 millimeters is normally what we see in January. On January 27th, we 
 
 received about 258. In fact, they received about 70 millimeters of rain in one hour. That's how torrential these rains were and how quickly it was 
 
 coming down. Just heavy, heavy downpour. So, here's the forecast radar, and you can see more rain is expected.
 
This is through Tuesday evening into Wednesday and then it starts to get a little bit spottier in nature but the rain is still in the forecast over 
 
 the next several days. So, that will be something to watch. Of course, additional rainfall over the next three days. We could see an additional, 
 
 100, 150 millimeters of rain, especially across northern New Zealand. You can see the southern end though, getting lots of rainfall as well.
 
Could see 150 to 200 millimeters of rain there. Seven-day forecast keeps the rain in pretty much every single day. We are going to see rain and even 
 
 thunderstorms today and tomorrow, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Thank you. One actor, Ryan Reynolds and his pal Rob McElhenney bought a tiny English football team called Wrexham. They could not have 
 
 guessed what would happen next. Well, watching Wrexham play is like an unscripted drama and the underdogs 
 
 and I underscore that keep surprising that new American owners. This last game against Sheffield United. Well, it was quite something. I'm not going 
 
 to ruin it.
 
Amanda Davies joins me now. What I -- what I understand is that Ryan was there to see the last game. Certainly, he looked very proud of what 
 
 happened?
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yes. Amid much fanfare, Wrexham have become everybody's second favorite club really, haven't they? And there was 
 
 a brilliant post from Ryan Reynolds wife Blake Lively talking about her delight as buying the subscription to watch this F.A. Cup match and see her 
 
 husband live through crippling anxiety live on international television, as she put it.
 
Those of us who have been lucky enough to grow up with the magic of the F.A. Cup. He is witnessing this firsthand. Wrexham taking on Sheffield 
 
 United as side three leagues above them and they were four minutes from going through to the fifth round. But as is so often the case, the 
 
 Sheffield United did get that late, late equalizer. It didn't break their hearts. It's just another chapter to what is it a brilliant story. The 
 
 replay taking place on Tuesday, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Look lively, lads. Let's take a very short break. "WORLD SPORTS" -- "WORLD SPORTS" up after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END