Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: UN: Almost 11 Million People in Syria Affected; Zelenskyy Calls for Quick Action on Weapons; Zelenskyy asks EU for more Weapons, says Europe is "Home"; Death Toll Nears 20,000, Time Running out to find Survivors; Disney to cut 7,000 Jobs as it Recognizes the Business; More Dramatic Rescues days after Quake Struck. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired February 09, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Hello, I'm Lynda Kinkade. Welcome to the second hour of "Connect the World". Good to have you with 
 
 us. Well, hopes are fading fast, but they're not completely over.
 
It has now been nearly 90 hours since the devastating earthquake hit parts of Turkey and Syria. The death toll is approaching 20,000 people. And while 
 
 the desperation grows there are some remarkable moments of success like this from Southeastern Turkey. A man pulled from the rubble early Thursday 
 
 raising his arms in triumph. Moments like this though, tempered by the core reality on the ground. Many survivors left homeless waiting for desperately 
 
 needed help.
 
In Turkey aid is arriving from dozens of nations amid growing anger there over what critics call a slow response to the disaster. Earlier today the 
 
 first UN a convoy crossed Turkey's border into Northwestern Syria. One official says people in Syria's rebel held areas need more of "Absolutely 
 
 everything" except more anguish. Syria man you see, coming up here says 18 of his family members have been killed by the quake.
 
Those are white body bags he's holding. His waiting outside his families collapsed home as rescue teams dig through the debris. Well, the White 
 
 Helmets rescue group also took this drone footage of a mass burial in Syria.
 
Millions of people living in the rebel held areas of the country were already suffering through a cholera outbreak when the earthquake hit. The 
 
 White Helmets have long been heroes to the many who suffer in Syria. CNN's Salma Abdelaziz shows us how these rescuers are finding moments of 
 
 inspiration in the region's latest crisis, take a look at these.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTPAE)
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A rescue worker sings to little Mina (ph) talks and share stories with her. He goes on and on 
 
 chatting about anything to distract her from the horrifying reality that she's being extracted from the ruins of her home. Mina is eventually pulled 
 
 out safely. Her family has also survived. Rescued by members of the White Helmets, a group of first responders seen as heroes in this rebel held 
 
 enclave of Syria.
 
Nearly 12 years war has made the group experts on the grim task of retrieving people from collapsed buildings. Syrians living in opposition 
 
 controlled areas battered by the government of President Bashar Al Assad and feeling neglected by the world have come to depend on only themselves, 
 
 even in the aftermath of a devastating earthquake. The result is catastrophic.
 
Here, there's a shortage of everything, even body bags. This man has arrived with just one bag to hold all four of his dead relatives. We hope 
 
 that countries would come to our rescue, he says but there was only our community that came to help us nobody else. We have no one to help us.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice over): And for the thousands of wounded pulled out of the rubble, they face a health care system on the brink. Another volunteer 
 
 group here is the Syrian American Medical Society, doing its best to provide care on the ground.
 
But equipment and supplies are scarce, and countless deaths, they warned could be prevented if they could just get the basic coverage. And for those 
 
 survivors unharmed, but made homeless vehicles are now shelter, sidewalks are beds shivering in all of groves is all that's left a crisis within a 
 
 crisis that's left those with nothing somehow with even less.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Our thanks to CNN's Salma Abdelaziz for that reporting there. Jomana Karadsheh visited the Turkish City of Adana, where families of the 
 
 missing face an excruciating wait to see if their loved ones can be saved?
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A five-year-old emerges from underneath the rubble in Turkey's hard hit her tie. One of the 
 
 youngest of thousands of life saved. But for too many it was too late. In the town of - they mourn one of the many who have not made it out alive 
 
 with the death toll rising by the hour.
 
This is a race against time. How many are buried under the wreckage of this massive quake zone, no one really knows estimates in the tens of thousands. 
 
 Here in Adana, search and rescue crews work tirelessly around the clock, digging through what used to be a 14 storey residential building, where 
 
 families lay asleep when the monstrous earthquake hit.
 
Survivors have gathered at the site of the rescue mission, their shelter and hot meals. And in the bitter cold, they huddle around these fires, 
 
 everyone with a story of the horror they've survived the shock, the trauma, the pain visible on every face. Parents doing what they can to try and make 
 
 their little ones forget many here are anxiously awaiting views of their loved ones and friends buried under what's left at their homes.
 
KARADSHEH (on camera): They are asking us to get down and we believe this is because they're scanning the building wreckage. This is a very, very 
 
 careful and delicate operation that's going on to try and see if they can locate any survivors because so far they haven't been able to.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): No survivors yet, only lifeless bodies pulled. It's been three days why can't they get my son out this father rails? Is night 
 
 falls the rest of the family we desperately for any news of 25-year-old - they've been out here for three long nights.
 
DENIZ, EARTHQUAKE SURVIVOR: It's so bad, because all this night we are thinking my family, my relatives, my cousin's dad, he is crying so much. He 
 
 is wondering where his son is?
 
KARADSHEH (on camera): Your cousin's dad. We saw him earlier he was crying.
 
DENIZ: Yes, we all cry. That's why I don't know what to say. We should pray to God.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): And that is all day and countless others can do right now.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Our thanks to Jomana Karadsheh reporting there. Well, our CNN Meteorologist Chad Myers is here to update us on the difficult weather 
 
 conditions which are complicating the rescue efforts, Chad, the bitterly cold weather a big problem?
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, the best you can say is for a dawn in our word read 10 that's the warmest we've been all day with the sun warming 
 
 up the ground warming up the air. But other places where there's still snow on the ground, three below zero and that's the high for the day.
 
We're not going to see the clouds come in at night to kind of hold in the heat like a blanket. It's going to be another clear night another cold 
 
 night in this area for the survivors and for the rescuers, even - 12 degrees, 14 degrees below zero tonight.
 
And even colder when you add in a little bit of wind 15, 16 or so degrees below zero. You want these things to be 10, 15 for a longer survival period 
 
 here, but for - I got to tell you 10 degrees below zero for the next two nights in a row that's the cold air that settles in the overnight hours.
 
It warms up in the afternoon at least a little bit. Many of the areas up here still have snow on the ground so the sun comes down but it also gets 
 
 bounced back up by this snow. So things don't warm up as much as down near Aleppo which is 10, 11 degrees over the next couple of afternoons.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
MYERS: They'll take that when they can get it in the sunshine. It feels warmer. But for these rescuers and for the survivors that are still in 
 
 there, this is some very cold air, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: All right, Chad Myers for us, our thanks to you. Well, if you are looking for information on how to help earthquake survivors, you can go to 
 
 cnn.com/impact you'll find a list of organizations working on rescue relief efforts. Again, that is at cnn.com/impact.
 
While the war in Ukraine is about to enter a second year, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy goes to Europe to ask for more weapons. We'll have more 
 
 on his visit and we'll talk to a member of the German parliament. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. Ukraine says Russia is stepping up attacks in the east. The Ukrainian military says since Sunday 25 settlements in the 
 
 Luhansk region have come under artillery fire. Russia has carried out several airstrikes in that area as well. Some analysts warn that Moscow may 
 
 be starting a new offensive in the region.
 
The Russian mercenary group of Wagner claims to have played a key role in some battleground victories in eastern Ukraine. The group now says it has 
 
 stopped recruiting prisoners to fight. With the prospect of that Russian offensive hanging over Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Kyiv 
 
 needs weapons and fast. Just hours ago, he took that message to the European Parliament.
 
Members of the European Parliament, they're giving him a standing ovation. But will they give him the fighter jets and missiles that he's asking for? 
 
 And will they make Ukraine a member of the EU? Mr. Zelenskyy says Europe is Ukraine's home.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: This is our Europe, these are rules. This is our way of life. And for Ukraine, its way home.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: My next guest is a member of the German parliament who says Russia is a terrorist state and therefore Ukraine has to win. Roderick Kiesewetter 
 
 joins us from Berlin. Good to have you on the program.
 
RODERICH KIESEWETTER, GERMAN PARLIAMENT MEMBER: Hello, Lynda. How are you?
 
KINKADE: Very well. So, we heard that from the Ukrainian President really making a case about shared values held by Ukraine and all of Europe. The 
 
 European standard of life, the European rules of life, does Germany see this war as a fight for European values?
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
KIESEWETTER: Yes, I believe that the vast majority, as well as the massive vast majority of the population and the parliament, are standing behind 
 
 this idea and thoughtful interpretation of this horrible war, yes.
 
KINKADE: Zelenskyy said that he sees Germany being as a game changer in this war. Let's just play a little bit of sound.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZELENSKYY: France and Germany had the potential to be game changers. And that is how I see our talks today. This is obvious, the sooner we get 
 
 heavy, long-range weapons, and our pilots get modern planes. The earlier our pilots can get modern planes aloft, the more powerful will our tent 
 
 coalition. And I'm thankful to you for starting this path, the quicker this Russian aggression ends; we can return Europe to a certain piece.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: So, is there a line between direct and indirect western involvement dissolving?
 
KIESEWETTER: Well, I believe that our chancellor has to change his narrative, like Macron did reasonably to say that Russia must lose and 
 
 Ukraine must win. He would get overwhelming support from our society from the population. But nevertheless, choice is sticking to a wrong narrative. 
 
 Russia must not win and Ukraine not loses.
 
This is not the attitude we need to win and also the visit of Zelenskyy to - to London to Paris and Brussels shows where he sees the allies. And I 
 
 hope we learn from that visit, and that the German Chancellor is encompassing embedding the vast majority of our society, which is 
 
 supporting a war against Russia in the sense of that Ukraine, is defending our values.
 
KINKADE: What does Zelenskyy want to take home? We know he wants more weapons, sanctions against Russia and an accelerated process to EU 
 
 membership. What will he take on?
 
KIESEWETTER: Well, it is of utmost importance to learn that if Ukraine is failing, the war will continue against Moldova and the Baltic states as 
 
 announced by Putin previously. Second is that we should not exclude anything, no red lines at all. What we need is a geopolitical thinking. 
 
 This is embedded in London and in Paris, but not yet in Germany.
 
And our chancellor has the chance to align with his partners. And also, Macron is discovering a geopolitical new Europe, which will be more 
 
 deterrent, more transatlantic and more northern. And Macron would like to be part of this Europe and Germany should.
 
KINKADE: We did hear that Zelenskyy making a case that fighter jets and long-range missiles are needed in addition to those Leopard 2 tanks that 
 
 Germany and other Western nations have committed. Chancellor Scholz took a while to agree to those tanks and warned the public again, he warned 
 
 against this public bidding war of weapons systems for Ukraine. Do you think that Zelenskyy that Ukraine should be given these fighter jets?
 
KIESEWETTER: Yes, and at least we should not exclude anything. The Chancellor draws red lines last year not to deliver infantry fighting 
 
 vehicles and tanks. And now in mid-January, he excluded the delivery of MiG-29 or F-16. And he has to change this attitude within the next months 
 
 because there is a need for it because Ukraine needs to liberate its territories.
 
Ukraine needs to regain its sovereignty. And this is available or could be achieved with close air support by fighter jets and long range missiles 
 
 which the U.S. has provided. Also, Germany could and therefore we should because it's our freedom.
 
And we have to stand aside because Germany was a receiver of security of our partners from 1949 when Germany was rebuilt after the war until 1990. 
 
 So, we were receivers of security now we must become providers of security aligned with our partners for Ukraine and for the free world. We are 
 
 defending the rule-based order and Ukraine is the role model for it.
 
KINKADE: And weapons is of course, the most immediate concern as Zelenskyy was saying that despite the tanks being promised, he said not a single one 
 
 has arrived yet. He says it this month and next month is crucial. Can you explain the holdup with regards to the tanks and what sort of timeframe you 
 
 should expect?
 
KIESEWETTER: The request to Germany started already in March and April last year, but the Chancellery ordered a planning sanction. So, they forbade any 
 
 planning for the industry and for our military force to take stock change of tanks, ammunition.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
KIESEWETTER: And also, as of the 100-billion-euro package, nothing was invested in the procurement of ammunition. And new artillery systems are 
 
 even tanks. So we lost more money to Inflation 17 percent inflation 17 billion euros and instead of procuring or providing our neighbors with 
 
 modern weapons. So, the challenge is that we have to change our mindset in Germany.
 
And our partners are willing and our chancellor is also supported by the greens, the liberals and the Christian Democrats, but he does not change 
 
 his narrative so far. So, the key factor is our chancellery, it is not the ruling parties who are able and are willing to do that. So we are in fear 
 
 that Chancellor Scholz would like to cooperate with Putin.
 
And the first tanks will arrive already in March. I have informed myself today in an organization in a big staff, European coordination close to 
 
 Berlin, who are preparing the delivery. So, in March, we will have the tanks available already in a two-digit number. And within a year, we will 
 
 have several hundreds, but this is one year too late. So, it was a planning mistake in the past. And now we have to speed up.
 
KINKADE: All right, good insight there. Roderich Kiesewetter from Berlin, good to have you with us! We appreciate your time.
 
KIESEWETTER: Thank you so much. All the best for you!
 
KINKADE: You too. Well, Mr. Zelenskyy has also been talking with European leaders one on one. CNN's Nic Robertson is following those developments 
 
 from Brussels. Good to have you with us Nic.
 
So, I was just speaking to a member of the German parliament they're talking about when Ukraine can expect the tanks that Germany has promised, 
 
 he was saying they can expect them in March. But we know Zelenskyy also wants these fighter jets. Where are the discussions on that?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Well, that's what he's doing right now. He's sort of split the 27 European Union leaders into four 
 
 groups and is meeting with them this afternoon. And interestingly, there are three Baltic States and each of those appears in a different group. 
 
 They are very pro giving Zelenskyy, President Zelenskyy what Ukraine needs.
 
What he says it wants as soon as possible because they are right up against the border with Russia. They really understand what Ukraine understands and 
 
 what the German parliamentarian there were saying that there are very real threats from President Putin and they need to be taken seriously.
 
So, President Zelenskyy today spoke to the Parliament spoke to the 27 European Union leaders collectively had a one on one with Giorgia Meloni, 
 
 the new Italian Prime Minister. But these other meetings that are again, where he can get face to face with a small group of leaders, about half a 
 
 dozen or so in each of these four groups.
 
And really trying to persuade them, why they need to step up, why they need, why Ukraine needs help. And he does feel that he's making progress on 
 
 the issue of fighter jets. He did say that he got that commitment from the UK on the training, he did say or indicate that they were making headway on 
 
 that.
 
But again, was one of the areas where he said he didn't want to get into too much specificity of what's been discussed behind closed doors, partly 
 
 not to tip off to President Putin what's happening. But also, there's sequencing behind the scenes here. And we've seen that play out before.
 
KINKADE: And talk to us about the unity because we did hear from the Ukrainian president describing Europe as Ukraine's home. And we also heard 
 
 from the European Union president, talking about how the EU is determined to continue to support for Ukraine to hold those guilty of crimes 
 
 accountable and to use frozen Russian assets to help rebuild Ukraine and the EU Commission President saying that we are one family.
 
ROBERTSON: Absolutely. And the European Council President Charles Michel saying Ukraine is the EU the EU is Ukraine. I mean, there's been a real 
 
 strong narrative here from the leadership that yes; Ukraine wants to be part of Europe there that is the shared values.
 
Ukraine is coming home to Europe and the European Union is ready to help Ukraine does that. And that, you know that seems to be a strong part of 
 
 what's the discussion that's going underway today.
 
But in terms of discussions to take those frozen Russian assets and seize assets that are come from been taken from oligarchs that have been things 
 
 that would have been shipped like thousands upon thousands of cars that were on their way to Russia this time last year or a little bit later after 
 
 the war started that were seized being held here in Belgium.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
ROBERTSON: Can the European Union turn those assets into cash? It's a discussion that's been going on for almost a year. It's not clear how much 
 
 progress has been made on that. But that does seem to be a conversation that's getting freshly galvanized, really galvanized again, to make some 
 
 headway on that.
 
And it does seem to be something that's important for Ukraine to hear. And accountability yes, we heard from Ursula von der Leyen saying that not only 
 
 is the European Union working with investigators and prosecutors, but it is establishing a tribunal.
 
In The Hague, that progress is being made to hold those Russians responsible for the war responsible for the deaths responsible for the 
 
 killing of civilians, hold them accountable. And that's an important part of the peace plan. That President Zelenskyy has put forward a 10 part plan 
 
 that the EU leaders Council and commission presidents said that the European Union would support.
 
So again, he's got a lot of support for the peace part of what he's doing for the integration of Ukraine into the European Union. But it is the 
 
 fighter jets that he really came here to try to, in essence, bring home a positive narrative for.
 
KINKADE: Yes, well, certainly what seems to be a more unified Europe, which is exactly the opposite of what Putin wanted? Nic Robertson, good to have 
 
 you with us. Thank you. Well, Russia says it cannot accept the results of an investigation into the downing of a Malaysian airline passenger plane 
 
 back in 2014.
 
MH-17 was shot down by a missile over eastern Ukraine, killing 298 people on board. A Dutch investigation into that incident found evidence that 
 
 Vladimir Putin personally approved the sending of those air defense missiles to Ukrainian separatists that we use to shoot down MH-17. The 
 
 Kremlin says that because it did not participate in the investigation, he will not accept the findings.
 
Well, let's get you up to speed on some other stories on our radar right now. And U.S. lawmakers are getting a classified briefing today on that 
 
 Chinese spy balloon that flew over the U.S. last week. The United States says the balloon contains sophisticated technology to monitor communication 
 
 signals. Intelligence officials say an initial report about the balloon entering U.S. airspace was not flagged as urgent.
 
Armita Abbasi has been released from an Iranian prison, that 20-year-old was arrested in September. She became the face of Iran's protest movement 
 
 when she was sexually assaulted while in the custody of Iranian forces. Her release comes after thousands of prisoners were pardoned by Iran's Supreme 
 
 Leader.
 
Bloomberg News says at first Abu Dhabi bank is likely to mount a new bid for British bank Standard Chartered later this year. Stan Chart is 
 
 considered desirable because it has extensive operations in emerging markets in Asia and Africa.
 
Still to come, the first UN convoys since the quake has finally made it into rebel held Syria but rescue workers say it's simply not enough. We'll 
 
 talk to a researcher in northern Syria who says the need for help is urgent.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
KINKADE: Hello, I'm Lynda Kinkade. Welcome back to "Connect the World". More in our top story now in the aftermath of that devastating quake in 
 
 Turkey and Syria fears are mounting for survivors. Aid agencies warning that new snowfall and the lack of power could cause what they call a 
 
 secondary disaster. The death toll was growing along with a sense of desperation.
 
Nearly 20,000 people have died in the disaster so far, and mountains of collapsed concrete are turning into tombs for the victims. In neighboring 
 
 Syria, the first UN aid convoy since the quake hit has finally made its way across the border. Activists had fear the Damascus regime could handle aid 
 
 to the mostly rebel held area.
 
And as we just mentioned, of course, the disaster zone fears are mounting for survivors. Aid agencies warning that the snowfall and lack of power 
 
 could cause this secondary disaster. Well Nick Paton Walsh has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY (voice over): It's hard to imagine how this rubble gave anyone hope. Yet for 50 or so hours after 
 
 the quake, it almost did. And when it stopped, when the chances of surviving ebbed the bodies, so near the epicenter here, kept coming.
 
The paralysis of grief when these two parents see their eight-year-old daughter's red hair blood stained, another four-year-old girl with no 
 
 parents here to bury her father, simply walking behind.
 
WALSH (on camera): There's been constant intense activity desperately trying to save lives. But we are sadly now into the window where so many of 
 
 the ambulances that arrive will likely be taking away people who've perished.
 
WALSH (voice over): Up high hope is strongest, digging furiously by hand here. On the other side of the rubble, medics rushed forward, moving fury, 
 
 but how nothing here came sooner. The stretches here too late, return empty. Another body pulled out of a Syrian refugee in his 40s as the 
 
 excavations gained pace, an audience of agony watches wait.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Heaven's garden is where they have gone.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My little lamb, her bed has flown, the columns fell on it. She is only 7, how could she move it? She is in heaven.
 
WALSH (voice over): Hospital volunteer told us over 300 bodies here around claimed the normal, the numbers rising fast along with tempers. It is chaos 
 
 and whether any government could have moved faster was the question dogging Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan when he flew into town briefly.
 
This stadium suddenly home to possibly thousands, who knows how long? Many refugees from Syria, now perhaps losing their homes for the third time 
 
 that's nearly as many years as some have been alive they have nothing but the state's generosity to rely on, which for now means 12 people in this 
 
 tent.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't know how long they'll let us stay here. We have no house to go to. Until there's a safe space, we are just waiting for 
 
 our government.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Whatever they give, we will accept.
 
WALSH (voice over): For now, the question is what they could have done to not arrive for so many in tuned here, too late.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Our Salma Abdelaziz is back with us this hour from Istanbul. We are, of course, covering Syria and Turkey. And let's start with Turkey, a 
 
 region that is high risk for earthquakes. A lot of anger from people about the lack of response, but also the lack of preparation, given that there 
 
 are laws in place since 2004 that new buildings have to be earthquake proof.
 
People also were paying for many years at earthquake tax. What's the general feeling? And how is the government responding?
 
ABDELAZIZ: There is very much Lynda across this country, not just in the earthquake zone, but its sense of frustration of anger that is setting in 
 
 against the government. There is a feeling that the government did not act quickly enough. We've all seen these images of people who were in more 
 
 remote areas, heart breaking, and heart wrenching stories of them hearing their relatives under the rubble.
 
But unable to reach them because no help had arrived because rescue workers were not on the scene because there was no equipment to move these huge 
 
 slabs of concrete we've also seen countless families, of course, just huddled in the freezing cold without access to food, water, fuel, anything 
 
 at all, really.
 
And it's those families now that are raising questions, should the government have acted more quickly? You could argue that a disaster with 
 
 this scope in scale, absolutely enormous, mind-boggling, mind-boggling numbers, you're talking about.
 
Tens of thousands of people injured, thousands of people killed countless of people under pinned under the rubble of their homes. So, you could argue 
 
 that no government could really be prepared. But then there was another question being asked here, Lynda, and that is about the buildings.
 
You mentioned that there the structure of these buildings were they sound as you mentioned, Turkey does have strict rules that came into place. After 
 
 the 1999, a devastating earthquake, then building codes that should have required more of these modern buildings to be earthquake resistant.
 
Yet we see all those in that earthquake zone, many apartment blocks just pancaked completely. So again, questions being raised. Was everything up to 
 
 code, if not what went wrong? And yes, very much right now the focus is on the search and rescue operations.
 
But these questions are not going to stop being asked of President Erdogan who has admitted to shortcomings. But perhaps one sign that the government 
 
 is very much aware of the growing anger are these reports that social media access was limited, while President Erdogan was making the visit to those 
 
 affected areas.
 
Again, an indication that there may have been dissent, anger, frustration online and the government here trying to keep it from spreading. But again, 
 
 for the many thousands of people who have lost loved ones, they are going to demand answers.
 
KINKADE: And of course, we need to turn our attention to Syria, Salma were about an 11 million people are impacted by this quake. That's according to 
 
 the W.H.O so the UN rather, and only now is the first UN aid convoy arriving but the need is so great.
 
ABDELAZIZ: This is just a tiny, tiny tear drop in the enormous ocean of need for Syria, just six trucks four days after this crisis. Six trucks 
 
 crossing in from the one and only route that connects Turkey to the rebel held portion of Syria. Those six trucks were carrying, sheltering equipment 
 
 to try to give some relief to probably just a tiny fraction, to be honest of the families now that have been made homeless by this earthquake.
 
But you have to remember, there are so many needs here everything from medical supplies, to food, to shelter, to blankets to clothes. I mean, 
 
 every single thing is needed. In theory, you have to remember some 4 million people were already fully dependent on humanitarian aid before this 
 
 earthquake, an absolute crisis within a crisis, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yes, it certainly is, Salma Abdelaziz staying across at all for us from Istanbul, thanks to you. You can read more about the earthquake and 
 
 other news from the Middle East.
 
In our "Meanwhile in the Middle East" Newsletter, you'll find it out while even though aid is being rushed to Turkey that Syria could be left behind. 
 
 Sign up for "Meanwhile in the Middle East" by going to cnn.com/mid-east newsletter. We're going to take a short break. We'll be right back. Stay 
 
 with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. You can add the Walt Disney Company to the list of big business players who say the time has come for serious layoffs. Disney 
 
 is cutting about 7000 jobs worldwide. Disney is reorganizing its operations into three divisions, amusement parks, its entertainment and production 
 
 business and the Sports TV network, ESPN.
 
Well for more on all of this, CNN's Paula Monica joins us now. And Paula, Disney has announced sequels to three major movies but at the same time, 
 
 these 7000 jobs to go. Put it in perspective, what sort of percentage is that? And what do they hope this cost cutting will mean for cost savings?
 
PAUL R LA MONICA, CNN REPORTER: Yes, this is something that Disney feels is necessary in light of a rough environment for media companies right now. 
 
 And as a result, these layoffs could save billions of dollars for the company. It's a significant chunk of the overall number of people that work 
 
 for the House of Mouse.
 
The big issue though, is that Bob Iger who is once again the CEO of Disney, he came back after Bob Chapek, his appointed successor didn't really do a 
 
 great job of helping Disney in the post Iger era. So, Disney stock really tumbled last year. Part of that is due to just all this competition in 
 
 streaming right now, Disney Plus is a service that is very popular, obviously.
 
But it faces challenges from companies like Netflix, parent company, our CNN's parent company, Warner Brothers Discovery with HBO Max and Discovery 
 
 Plus, Paramount and you've got Apple and Amazon. There are so many streamers right now that there's a bit of fatigue and the growth has slowed 
 
 down there.
 
So that's something that Iger, I think needs to fix. And it's going to be one of the big challenges that he has in the next few years that it sounds 
 
 like he's going to be sticking around as CEO before they figure out a succession plan.
 
KINKADE: Yes, certainly does. And Paula, in other tech news, Google and Microsoft are at war over artificial intelligence. What's at play here?
 
MONICA: Yes, it's fascinating, Lynda. What you have right now is that Google is synonymous with church. Its parent company Alphabet owns Google 
 
 owns YouTube. But Google got off to a bit of a rough start with its AI bot named Bard. The Bard bot had a notable error when it was asked about your 
 
 question regarding whether or not there was a telescope.
 
That was you're looking at, you know, far way galaxies before the Hubble and there was but you're the bard made it sound as if like Hubble was the - 
 
 the James Hunt one excuse me was the first one when there was one actually almost 20 years ago. So, the fact that it missed that made people start to 
 
 wonder how reliable and good is this technology?
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
MONICA: So, Microsoft, which is aligning itself with the ChatGBT bot that more people I think know and recognizes it's got all the buzz. Microsoft 
 
 seems to have a leg up so far in the very nascent AI head-to-head race between these two companies, which is obviously going to find out the rest 
 
 of tech is going to get involved too.
 
KINKADE: All right, Paul R LA Monica first in New York thanks so much. Well, North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un has shown off his newest ballistic 
 
 missiles at a military parade in Pyongyang. It was held to celebrate 75 years since the formation of the North Korean army. Also seen here a girl 
 
 around nine years old was believed to be his second child. That's feeling speculation that she will one day be successor. Paula Hancocks reports.
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: There were a couple of firsts here. It is the first time that North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un has taken his 
 
 daughter to a military parade. It's also the first time we have seen quite so many of their largest ICBMs in one display.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Missile after missile rolled through Pyongyang's main square Wednesday night. Its biggest intercontinental ballistic 
 
 missile, the - 17 presumed capable of reaching mainland United States. No speech from leader Kim Jong-Un this time, but this many ICBMs are a message 
 
 in themselves.
 
KIM JONG-UN, NORTH KOREAN LEADER: They've now gone into a good production line of this very capable, threatening missile system.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): And what some experts say maybe a mock-up of a new solid fuel ICBM, which would make it quicker to launch and easier to move.
 
JONG-UN: If this is the case, it gives them more mobility, flexibility, lethality, and so forth.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Kim Jong-Un told the world he wanted a bigger and better nuclear arsenal. And judging from these images provided by state run 
 
 media that seems to be exactly what he's doing.
 
Another first, the military parade was a family affair. Kim's wife and daughter were watching the missiles roll by believed to be called Ju-Ae, 
 
 maybe nine or 10 years old. This is the fifth public event for Kim's daughter since November; the only one of his children to be shown in 
 
 public, fueling speculation he may be grooming her for succession.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In order to seize power in North Korea, gaining control of the military and their loyalty is the most important thing. So, I think 
 
 that's why Kim Ju-Ae is mainly accompanying Kim to military related occasions.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Kim Jong-Un's message has been we will strengthen the military and we will be ready for war.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANCOCKS: And in keeping with the military theme, we saw Ri Sol-Ju, Kim Jong-Un's wife wearing a necklace that appeared to have an ICBM pendant, a 
 
 fashion not to the country's most powerful weapon. Paula Hancocks, CNN Seoul.
 
KINKADE: Well still ahead, digging through debris for your relatives in the aftermath of that massive earthquake, we're going to hear from one family 
 
 and find out how that story turned out.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. Tens of thousands of American football fans are headed to the Super Bowl this weekend, one of the biggest sport during 
 
 events in the world. And with any event like that security is a major concern. CNN's Rosa Flores got a look at the extensive Superbowl security 
 
 operation from high above the stadium.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): What are U.S. Customs and Border Protection helicopter? A U.S. Air Force KC-135 Stratotanker and an 
 
 F-16 fighter jets doing over Glendale, Arizona they're tasked with guarding the skies over Super Bowl 57. With nearly 200,000 fans expected for the big 
 
 game between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles, security is a multi-agency effort.
 
FLORES (on camera): What types of threats does the FBI prepare for when it comes to the Superbowl?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, wide variety anything from active shooters to explosive threats, ID threats to bomb threats, suspicious packages.
 
FLORES (voice over): From this operation center, the FBI alongside more than 40 federal, state and local law enforcement agencies will use these 
 
 360-degree cameras to have eyes on every inch of the stadium. Scott Brown is the federal top official in charge of security.
 
SCOTT BROWN, HOMELAND SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: I was in New York for 911. I've seen the devastating impacts of terrorism on 
 
 our soil. I am deeply committed, as are all my partners to making sure that we don't have an incident like that here.
 
FLORES (voice over): Sky patrol is in the hands of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Air and Marine Operations.
 
FLORES (on camera): When your teams are patrolling what would they be looking for?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to look for anything out of the ordinary could be anything from smoke to disruptions.
 
FLORES (on camera): PDP, Air and Marine Operations, we'll be able to fly over the stadium during the big game, but no other aircraft will because 
 
 the FAA will be imposing a flight restriction that 30 mile walk.
 
FLORES (voice over): Those flight restrictions will be enforced by NORAD, the North American Aerospace Defense Command with these air force F-16 
 
 fighter jets.
 
MAJOR. ANDREW SCOTT, U.S. AIRFORCE, 601ST AIR OPERATIONS CENTER: Since 911, we've been able to safely escort out any aircraft that's violated, 
 
 restricted airspace.
 
FLORES (voice over): NORAD is taking no chances. This KC-135 Stratotanker is part of the fleet on hand.
 
FLORES (on camera): This aircraft can carry up to 200,000 pounds of fuel; there are 10 tanks on board, including some on the wings.
 
FLORES (voice over): And it can refuel an F-16 mid-air in minutes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So, it prevents us from having a return for fuel on the ground. So, it's absolutely critical.
 
FLORES (voice over): The fighter jets refuel from a receptacle that's right behind the pilot.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And my job as the pilot is just to remain within the basket in a safe controlled stable position.
 
FLORES (voice over): If the FAAs flight restrictions are broken, NORAD or CBP, Air and Marine Operations will engage.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our role in the event of a criminal event is to bring special response teams to the scene.
 
FLORES (voice over): The message from law enforcement to when you went thinking about committing a crime during the Superbowl is simple.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Don't do it, you're going line up in costs.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: That was our Rosa Flores reporting there. Well, as the death toll and the earthquake that hit Turkey and Syria approaches 20,000 people. The 
 
 United Nations says the need for aid and rebel held north-western Syria is urgent. The first UN aid convoy arrived there today. Officials say that 
 
 much more help is needed.
 
In Turkey aid is arriving from dozens of nations and amid growing anger there over what critics call a slow response to the disaster. And in the 
 
 middle of all this tragedy, there are moments of triumph. People are still getting rescued after spending days trapped under the rubble.
 
Take a look at these dramatic pitches which show the rescue of an eight- year-old boy in Hatay, pulled to safety 52 hours after the quake struck. And there are similar stories in Gaziantep, a father and his two sons were 
 
 rescued earlier today. Really have some remarkable stories of hope amidst all that tragedy. Well, "Connect the World" anchor, Becky Anderson got to 
 
 speak to one of the boy's cousins who help dig them out of life.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD (voice over): A miraculous moment of survival. A father and his two sons rescued 76 hours after that 
 
 massive earthquake struck Turkey and Syria on Monday morning. Omar is one of their cousins. He helped to dig them out.
 
OMER KOCOK, EARTHQUAKE VICTIM'S RELATIVE: Oh, we are trying to reach them. We have contact with them. We had a call by mobile phone.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): More than 100 people lived inside according to the residence and its Omar's love for family that drove him to assist the 
 
 rescuers sifting through the rubble. Painstaking work, first the rescuers and volunteers must dig and then plead for silence to hear any sign of 
 
 life, repeating the process until they get closer.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Neighbors, friends, relatives and bystanders, all joining together in the freezing cold to pray, hope and wish for a miracle. 
 
 Until finally, almost 56 hours on, contact was made with one of them in the rubble but it still took many more hours to finally free them. Omar says 
 
 while his uncle and two cousins survived with no injuries, his aunt didn't make it.
 
KOCOK: It is our responsibility because they do the same if we were in the same situation.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): One family story giving hope to a grieving country. Becky Anderson, CNN, Gaziantep.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, stick around. You're watching CNN. "One World" with Eleni Giokos is up next. And I'll be back with a couple of hours in a couple 
 
 hours with much more news. Stay with us. You're watching CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END