Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Seven Bodies Found During Search For Missing Oklahoma Teens; Washington Gov. Jay Inslee Won't Seek Reelection; Surgeon General Lays Out Framework To Tackle Loneliness. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired May 02, 2023 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:29:58]
 
LUCY KAFANOV, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It was believed at that point that they might be with 39-year-old Jesse McFadden who has been convicted of sexual assault. He's also on the Oklahoma sex offender registry.
 
Now, authorities did obtain a search warrant to go to his home. They arrived there at around 3:00 p.m. yesterday. They conducted the search.
 
That's when they discovered seven bodies not in the residence but sort of just on the property according to the sheriff. No details on how long the bodies had been there. This -- officials did say there is no suspect at large at the moment, no threat to the community.
 
There was also a separate missing persons alert posted by the sheriff's office on Facebook regarding 14-year-old Ivy Webster, which revealed that she actually went to a friend's house with a friend on Saturday to the Macalester area. She was supposed to return home by 5:00 p.m. on Sunday, but her family was not able to reach her. Our affiliate did speak to the father of Brittany Brewer as well as Ivy's Brother. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NATHAN BREWER, FATHER OF BRITTANY BREWER: I'm just lost. I still haven't spoken yet. I still think she's going to walk in right behind me or walk up next to me. It still hasn't sunk in that she's gone. Though this taking it really tough and hard. I mean, they're just words can't describe.
 
PARKER WEBSTER, BROTHER OF IVY WEBSTER: Crying. Really sad. I mean, the only daughter in a house full of boys, so obviously my mom's super upset. Horrible. Truly tragic, especially because we've known this family for two years now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAFANOV: Obviously, this community has devastated. We know that there was a vigil for the victims yesterday evening at the school. The local school says that it will remain open despite losing several students.
 
But another sort of morbid twist here, John is hours before authorities discovered these bodies, McFadden was actually supposed to stand trial on charges of solicitation of a minor This is according to court records. And he was scheduled to appear in court at 9:00 a.m. on Monday. He obviously failed to show up.
 
The records say that a bench warrant for failure to appear was issued. And that court date stemmed from charges filed in 2017 when McFadden was accused of using a cell phone to exchange news -- nude photos and videos with an underage girl while he was serving time for a 2003 rape conviction. This is according to CNN affiliate KOKI.
 
They interviewed Ivy's parents. They told our affiliate that they were shocked to learn if McFadden's passed and that he was out and about, John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: How horrible for all these families. Lucy Kafanov, thank you so much for your reporting. Kate?
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: New this morning, troops to the border. The Biden administration is planning to send an additional 1500 military personnel to the southern border to prepare for a new influx of migrants. That is because Title 42 is about to expire. And officials in border towns, they believe that tens of thousands of migrants that are in Mexico right now are hoping to make their way across as soon as Title 42 is lifted.
 
This pandemic-era policy was put in place by then-President Donald Trump, which made it easier for the government to quickly expel migrants. The policies expect to -- expect it to -- is set to expire next week.
 
CNN's Rosa Flores is in El Paso joining us once again. Rosa, when we last spoke you, I mean you're just surrounded by lines of migrants. What is hap -- what does it look like now? What are you hearing from them?
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Let me show you around, Kate, as we pan and we can go down this block and around so you can see the magnitude of this. There are hundreds of migrants around this just one city block here by this Catholic church. But I should add that there are multiple, multiple of these shelters around the city of El Paso.
 
We were at another location yesterday, and the scene was very similar, hundreds of migrants. Now, of course, the obvious question here is Title 42 is still in place. So, why are there so many migrants in the streets of one American city right now?
 
And here's what we've learned. We've learned from both migrants, community leaders, and also officials on both sides of the border that there are about 40,000 migrants in just four northern Mexican cities that are -- have been waiting for Title 42 to lift.
 
Now, when you think about that. There's thousands of individuals from various countries around the world who've been waiting for May 11 for Title 42 to lift so that they can cross over into the United States and not be immediately expelled. Well, there's frustration, a lot of them have decided to go ahead and cross into the United States. That's why we're seeing this magnitude right now because there's a mixture of migrants who turned themselves in to U.S. authorities, and there's others who simply decided to enter the country illegally.
 
And, Kate, I should add this point because the city of El Paso is under declaration of disaster at this point, which as you know, frees up monies to help individuals. But, Kate, those monies are for the individuals to turn themselves in to authorities, not the ones who turn -- who decided to enter the country illegally. Kate.
 <br>[11:35:04]
 
BOLDUAN: And next week, the whole landscape changes when that policy expires. Rosa, thank you so much. Sara?
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: It is remarkable, the number of people that you're seeing there. All right, still ahead. Pilots for American Airlines have voted to authorize a strike. So, what happens now, and when? And what will it mean to you?
 
And ready to pass the torch? Washington Governor Jay Inslee says he will not seek a fourth term. We'll ask him why when he joins us next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BOLDUAN: Ready to pass the torch. That is the message from Washington Governor Jay Inslee, who just announced that he will not be seeking reelection in 2024.
 <br>[11:40:02]
 
Inslee is only the second governor in the state's history to serve three consecutive terms. He ran in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary on a platform largely focused on combating climate change. An issue he'll likely continue to champion as he wraps up now nearly 30 years in elected office. But why is he had now?
 
Governor Jay Inslee joins us now. Governor, thank you so much for coming on this morning.
 
GOV. JAY INSLEE (D-WA): Good morning.
 
BOLDUAN: You said last night that having a first-term new governor instead of a fourth term with you as governor is the right decision for the state. Why?
 
INSLEE: Well, we've had just such a dynamic decade or over a decade since I've been able to serve best climate policies in the country, great policies against gun violence, standing up for a woman's right to choose, best (INAUDIBLE) scholarship program in the country for college, and the list goes on and on. I've been very fortunate to have such a positive change over in a decade.
 
And I think look, it's just like the -- you know the birdsong or the good book, depending on your flavor, you know, to everything, there's a season. And this is a season of passing the torch, change can be positive for a state, and I look forward to that. I think our state is very well set up for continued growth. Although I'm kind of upset this morning, U.S. News and World Report ranking says only the second-best nation in the country. We want to be number one, so I've got 20 months to try to make it so.
 
BOLDUAN: OK. So, you got a challenge left for the next 20 months. But I have to ask you, I mean -- 
 
INSLEE: We've got.
 
BOLDUAN: -- things that you've focused on climate change has been something you've pushed hard on, of course. Childcare, criminal justice reform, taking on gun violence, things you've highlighted, you know, as you were announcing that you're going to be -- you're not going to be seeking reelection, you're going to continue to push on these issues once you leave office. But why do you think you will have more of an impact kind of outside of the game than on the inside?
 
INSLEE: Well, I think it is a different role. And I haven't seriously thought about this, so this is just a concept at the moment. But I think that I will be in a way changing a role from execution to inspiration and I think both can be a value.
 
I do hope that there's a role that I can hope to inspire other leaders and other states to move forward as our state has moved forward. We have a template for success in our state where we're growing our economy like crazy. In part because we're developing so many new high- tech industries in our state.
 
Yesterday, I was out in Everett, Washington. We saw the unveiling of the largest commercial hydrogen fuel cell plane in human history unveiled. So, that's the kind of thing that I hope to be able to find some way to go on the inspiration job. We need it.
 
BOLDUAN: Is there any element of this? Often when I speak to like members of Congress who are retiring, there is an element of recently of just politics is just so divided, the nation so divided that you just kind of run out of steam. Is there any element of it that it's just not the politics of when you started 30 years ago, you just kind of over it?
 
INSLEE: Not for me. I am just as energetic. I look forward to getting to work in the morning, just as much I did on the very first day.
 
Yes, we do have a community that has more polarization ideologically, and otherwise, no question about that. But I love what I'm doing. I love to work with people to help them realize their ambitions like I told you about this plane.
 
Yesterday, I was in Moses Lake, where we're going to be building the best you know silicon nano battery. I got through the shoot hoops with a state championship basketball team and -- in a tiny little town in eastern Washington that had the first state championship in the history of their town. So, --no, I love this job. I still feel very energized. And I'm going to be pulling on the plow for the next 20 months. I've still got a lot of work to do. I feel it's a great opportunity to serve.
 
BOLDUAN: Well, let me ask about that because something that matters to every state, every governor, every constituency right now is the fight over the debt ceiling and what it means for the country. I mean, you -- you've got Republicans demanding spending cuts, you've got President Biden standing firm that he does not want to negotiate on whether or not to extend the debt ceiling.
 
You have a meeting at the White House coming but you really basically have the political parties staring at each other in this moment. And you also have a new warning from the Treasury Secretary of how bad this is going to be and sooner. Is the president, do you think at a point where he's going to have to negotiate? Do you think, Governor?
 
INSLEE: No, and I'll say why. Because President Biden is right. On what world do the Republicans think we live in that they're going to default on the obligations of the United States? We are the most stable, confident, forward-looking nation in human history. And to think that they'd be willing to just say we're not going to pay our legitimate debts is insane.
 
And what I hope will happen is that they will come to their senses. And one of the things that might bring them to their senses, ultimately, is to look at what happened last time they went down this road with Newt Gingrich. I've -- you know that there is a benefit of age, one of which is experience.
 <br>[11:45:03]
 
When they tried this tack you know in the 90s, they went down in flames. And that'll happen to them again. So, I'm hopeful that as the deadline appears, they will recognize the political doom they will experience if they continue down this road, and that wiser heads will prevail. So, I'm hoping that that will be the case.
 
BOLDUAN: All right, Governor, get back to work. It's good to see you. Thanks for coming in.
 
INSLEE: You bet. I have to.
 
BOLDUAN: Sara.
 
SIDNER: American Airlines pilots say they're ready to strike if there's no agreement on a new contract. Pilots will begin picketing at major hubs ahead of the busy summer travel season. That is according to the Union, which represents 15,000 pilots.
 
CNN's Aviation Correspondent and pilot Pete Muntean joins us now. Pete, update us on exactly where things stand right now.
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT (on camera): You know, things are pretty tense, Sara. And they have been for years. American Airlines pilots are fighting for a new contract with the airline. But now things are really coming to a head and now the Allied Pilots Association, it's the union that represents 15,000 American Airlines pilots have voted to authorize a strike if necessary.
 
That is really key. More on that in a second. The Allied Pilots Association, 99 percent of its Union voted and 96 percent voted in favor of a strike.
 
Now, pilots had been picketing, it's a major hubs across the country. But the big thing to remember here is that there was a long path to an actual strike. Numerous steps would have to take place, not to mention mediation potentially with the U.S. government, and Congress or the president could step in. And American Airlines underscores there is no impact to operations because of this strike authorization vote.
 
This is the statement from American Airlines. It says. We understand a strike authorization vote is one of the important ways that pilots expressed their desire to get a deal done and we respect the message of the voting results. So, talks with the pilot union and the airline continue right now.
 
I spoke to Dennis Taje, who is a captain for American Airlines and the spokesperson for the Allied Pilots Association. And he says right now, they're fighting for better pay, better work conditions, and better conditions for pilots to be most ready to work. And set this against the backdrop of summer travel when we're likely to see a lot of headaches and a huge amount of passengers returning to flying. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DENNIS TAJER, CAPTAIN, AMERICAN AIRLINES: The schedule is pushed to the limit. The pilots have pushed to the limit. Our passengers are being pushed to the limit. This thing is under so much pressure right now and everybody knows it. The only certainty is that there's uncertainty with the summer schedule. It's crazy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MUNTEAN: This tactic, strike authorization vote, is a tried and true union maneuver. Delta Airlines pilots did it last year. They voted to authorize a strike and then got a new contract with their airline back in March. United Airlines pilots also trying to get a new contract and Southwest Airline Pilots will today vote to possibly authorize a strike.
 
So, we will see here, Sara, a lot of labor tensions mounting in the airline industry. And the big question here. Do you want your pilots to be happy or do you want them to be disgruntled as we go into this huge summer travel season?
 
SIDNER: Wow. Remember when you were promised that you would fly me in your Cessna? I may need that sooner than later. Thank you, Pete Muntean, appreciate it. John?
 
BERMAN: No one wants disgruntled pilots. We want them fully gruntled.
 
The U.S. Surgeon General says loneliness and isolation. They are an epidemic. And now he is laying out a plan to tackle it. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:53:11]
 
BERMAN: This morning, U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy laid out a strategy for what he has called an epidemic of loneliness. He says rebuilding social connections should be a top health priority. People who report being lonely are more likely to experience dementia, heart disease, and stroke.
 
CNN Senior Medical Correspondent Elizabeth Cohen joins us now. This will stem from an op-ed he wrote yesterday. We talked about that. But now we see this framework, Elizabeth. What's in it?
 
ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Right. Dr. Murthy yesterday talked about his own experiences with loneliness. And he talks about how we are wired. We're biologically wired to connect with each other but the modern world doesn't always lend itself to that.
 
So, he has a report out that he did after his column -- after his article, and it has some specifics. He wants the government, he wants private sector, families, individuals to think about how to make us all more connected.
 
So, for example, he said that we should invest in groups that bring people together. Put money into making that happen. Train healthcare providers to recognize loneliness because they don't always do that. And established digital safety standards. Tell social media companies you need to have standards so that people will feel more together than apart.
 
Now, some of this gets to the very fabric of what our society has become. This will be hard to reverse. But this is his blueprint for starting down that road, John.
 
BERMAN: Do you have any advice on how we can look for signs in in serious or chronic loneliness either in ourselves or others?
 
COHEN: Right. So, the surgeon general talked about how sometimes loneliness people seem withdrawn. Sometimes people are lonely and they're irritable. It doesn't always look the same. But he had some advice on what to look for.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. VIVEK MURTHY, U.S. SURGEON GENERAL: But I think the time you would get concerned is when you start feeling -- experiencing a feeling of loneliness for prolonged periods of time. If you feel lonely, you pick up the phone, call a friend, and then it goes away or you get in the car and go see a family member. That's OK. That's loneliness acting like hunger or thirst to signal or the body senses us when we need something for survival.
 
COHEN: Yes.
 
MURTHY: That's when it persists that it becomes harmful.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[11:55:17]
 
COHEN: You know, it's interesting how Dr. Murthy has emphasized that our need to be interconnected, we are wired. We need it just like we need food and water, John.
 
BERMAN: Elizabeth Cohen, thank you very much for that.
 
SIDNER: Hey, do you guys want to hang out afterwards?
 
BOLDUAN: No.
 
BERMAN: Forget it.
 
SIDNER: Game. And there you have it. Thank you for joining us. Maybe you'll hang out with me. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. "INSIDE POLITICS" is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)