Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: U.K. Prime Minister Touts "Decisive Breakthrough" For The Northern Ireland; U.S. Ambassador To China Calls For Transparency From Beijing About Coronavirus Origin; Video From Defense Minister Shows Troops Gaining Ground. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired February 28, 2023 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[23:59:48]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Coming up here on CNN NEWSROOM, Brexit endgame. The last unresolved issue from the U.K.'s divorce from the E.U. appears to be solved with green lanes and red lanes. 
 <br>[00:00:00]
 
COVID origin story the sequel, a new intelligence report in the U.S. back to the lab leak theory, notably with low confidence.
 
And with vote counting still underway, what's expected to be the closest election ever for president of Nigeria, there are already calls for a do over. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with John Vause.
 
VAUSE: More than three years after Brexit became official, the U.K. and the E.U. have finally struck a deal on how to deal with trade in Northern Ireland, a thorny issue left dangling after that big divorce. 
 
European Commission president acknowledged the lingering tension and said the Windsor Framework (INAUDIBLE) will let the two sides begin a new chapter. 
 
This deal replaces the much despised Northern Ireland protocol, which was negotiated by former Prime Minister Boris Johnson to prevent a hard border separating the Republic of Ireland on the E.U. side and the Northern Ireland on the U.K. side. 
 
Under the Windsor Framework, trade will flow freely via green and red lanes. Goods from Britain destined for Northern Ireland will travel in a green lane and will be subject to far fewer checks and less paperwork or products from the U.K. heading for export to the European Union will take the red line and face normal checks and inspections. 
 
The British Prime Minister said this decisive breakthrough will protect Northern Ireland's place within the United Kingdom, but also safeguarding its sovereignty.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) RISHI SUNAK, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: I also want to speak directly to the Unionist community. I understand and have listened to your frustrations and concerns. It is clearly in the interests of the people and those of us who are passionate about the cause of unionism for power sharing to return. 
 
Of course, parties will want to consider the agreement in detail, a process that will need time and care.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: So far, the deal has been greeted with tremendous, albeit cautious optimism. But Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party is yet to give its support.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEFFREY DONALDSON, LEADER, DEMOCRATIC UNIONIST PARTY: We need to look at the legal tax. We need to get legal advice on that. We need to make our own assessments and come to consider a view on this. 
 
I hope that we can do that within a reasonable timeframe. But let's face it, it has taken months to get to this point. And we will not be rushed, will not be pushed into a hasty decision. We want to make the right decision for Northern Ireland.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Dominic Thomas is CNN's European Affairs commentator. He joins us from Los Angeles. Dominic, good to see you.
 
DOMINIC THOMAS, CNN EUROPEAN AFFAIRS COMMENTATOR (on camera): Thanks for having me on, John.
 
VAUSE: Sure thing. Now, when Brexit ended free trade between the U.K. and E.U., a border had to go somewhere right to impose inspections, click customs and tariffs, that kind of thing. And just looking at the map in a vacuum. The logical place would be where the U.K.'s Northern Ireland meets the E.U.'s Republic of Ireland. But that would violate the Good Friday peace deal, which ended decades of violence. 
 
So, the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson proposed what a border at sea that never regained traction that was despised. So, now the solution here comes in red lanes and green lanes. So, just in a nutshell, how do you expect this to work?
 
THOMAS: Yes, well, I mean, as you've pointed out, you know, in the lead up, I mean, England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, we're all part of the European Union, of course, until Brexit. And so, when they trade with the European Union, they have the same rules and regulations. And that applied, of course, to the island of Ireland, in which Northern Ireland shares the territory with the Republic of Ireland, which, of course, is still part of the European Union. 
 
And so, this sort of border at sea, and the checks as they stand right now is the goods coming in from Scotland, Wales and England, and go through Northern Irish ports, there's a lot of red tape and a lot of checks. And people have been upset about this. 
 
And so, the solution is essentially to have a green lane, which would fast track the movement of goods from England, Scotland and Wales into Northern Ireland, but then the goods that weren't moving on or that were destined for the Republic of Ireland, in other words, for the European Union would go through a red lane, they would be slowed down, but there will be further checks to make sure that they abide by E.U. regulations. Now, we'll see how this works out, John.
 
VAUSE: Yes, actually, yes, that's the key here who makes it work, but judging by the smile on his face, this was a good day for the British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUNAK: We can now say that goods will flow freely, smoothly across the U.K. internal market that we've protected Northern Ireland's place and our union, that we've safeguarded sovereignty for Northern Ireland's people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: And on the seventh day he rested. What are the chances this deal could still come crashing down at any point in this process ahead? Even though the initial reaction from hardcore Brexiteers seems to be positive.
 
THOMAS: Yes. I mean, look, there's always a possibility. I mean, let's face it, you know, since 2010, we're on the fifth Prime Minister, that the Conservative Party will -- that elements of it and in any case will sabotage this deal. 
 
But what's so fascinating is 2019 seems so far away when Boris Johnson ran a general election on the single issue, get Brexit done. Both the E.U. and the U.K. have gone through a global pandemic. There's the conflict unfolding in the Ukraine, of course, the energy crisis, cost of living crisis, and in many ways, sort of the discussions around Brexit have been moved to the background, people are upset about it. And if anything, it's the sort of the currency and the capital that it once had has I think dissipated. 
 <br>[00:05:16]
 
And so, as much as it's possible that the Conservative Party's certain elements will disrupt this, I think that the probability is lower than it has been in the past, John.
 
VAUSE: This was an issue which the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson seems to be sort of putting his hat on as a way of working itself back into the leadership of the Conservative Party. That just seems to have gone nowhere, and notably, Boris Johnson was on in parliament on Monday when this deal was announced.
 
THOMAS: Yes, John, I think that's absolutely a key factor that in many ways I think Sunak is capitalizing on this. I think that there's a realization that a general election is looming, that it's time to get this deal done. 
 
He of course, once the support of the Conservative Party members would even love the support of the DUP. And I think it's an important strategic move, kind of repackaging of the process and moving it along at a time when there was a different kind of will to get this Brexit story over once and for all, John.
 
VAUSE: Very quickly, how smart was it to call it the Windsor Framework and get rid of that name altogether, The Irish protocol.
 
THOMAS: I think that that's essential. I think that gets to the idea of sort of moving on and repackaging it and trying to make it appeal to a different audience with a full understanding that the DUP will be consulted, but they don't wield the power that they did when Theresa May have to rely on them and in Parliament. 
 
And if anything, John, this deal moves, the Unionist concerns and further away from the possibility of the United Ireland and so, at the end of the day for Sunak, it is a good day.
 
VAUSE: Dominic Thomas as always, we appreciate you being with us. Thank you. 
 
THOMAS: Thank you. 
 
VAUSE: In the U.S. a powerful winter storm is on the move threatening millions of people across the Great Lakes in northeast. The storm id set to bring heavy snow and rain, strong winds and even tornadoes, could be at the mix. 
 
The final cloud was spotted in Illinois on Monday and at least nine twisters were reported over Oklahoma and Kansas. This was the damage in Norman, Oklahoma after the storm ripped through the city on Sunday.
 
Storm aftershock has collapsed buildings in southern Turkey, killing at least one person, hurting more than a hundred others. The 5.6 major quake hit Monday three weeks to the day after the massive Turkey Syria quake earlier this month. 
 
That quake and its aftershocks have killed more than 50,000 people, left thousands homeless. 
 
World Bank estimating there has been more than $34 billion in damages just in Turkey alone. 
 
U.S. Department of Energy's new conclusion about the origins of COVID- 19 is making waves. Multiple sources in the intelligence community tells CNN the notion of a Chinese lab leak kickstarting the pandemic is still the minority opinion in Washington. It comes as at least three sources say China's Centers for Disease Control it Wuhan was studying COVID variants at the time of the initial outbreak. 
 
Republican lawmakers are demanding a wide scope of items linked to the White House probe into the start of this pandemic, as well as investigations by the FBI and other federal agencies. 
 
But the Biden administration maintains there is no official opinion on the matter so far. Here's what one official told CNN Monday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KIRBY, PRESS SECRETARY, PENTAGON: I'm not able to confirm this press reporting, Wolf. What I can tell you is that there is no consensus among the intelligence community or elsewhere in the government on exactly how COVID originated. 
 
But we want to know, the president wants to know because he wants to be able to put us in a position where we can better prevent another pandemic.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: CNN's David Culver reported extensively from China during the first years of the pandemic, including multiple trips to Wuhan. Here's more now on the new developments from Washington.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Wuhan China, you know, what is the city from which COVID-19 first emerged, but how exactly it started depends on who you ask, and who you believe.
 
NICHOLAS BURNS, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO CHINA: We're going to have to push China. To be more honest about what happened three years ago in Wuhan with the origin of the COVID-19 crisis.
 
CULVER: The U.S. Energy Department, just the latest agency to assess with low confidence that the virus likely came from a lab leak, that according to two sources, it's a claim that infuriates Chinese officials.
 
China's Foreign Ministry Monday calling on the U.S. to stop smearing China and stop politicizing the issue of the virus origin. 
 
Our first day of three trips to Wuhan investigating the viruses outbreak was in January 2020, when COVID-19 was still a mystery illness. Officially, China had only listed about 200 cases of COVID-19 at that point, including three deaths. But our reporting revealed the real number of infected was far greater, and the crowded Lunar New Year travel rush was underway, allowing COVID to spread rapidly. 
 <br>[00:10:01]
 
Security outside the original epicenter, the Huanan Seafood Market told us to leave, Chinese officials linked some of the first cases to this market, suggesting it might have started naturally jumping from animals to humans. 
 
But as the virus went global, the U.S. and other democracies further questioned its origins. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: China's a very sophisticated country, and they could have contained it. CULVER: The claim of a lab leak, but the focus and scrutiny on the Wuhan Institute of Virology a 30 minute drive from the market. The high level biosafety lab sits on the institute's sprawling campus, a four story structure. At the top, a sophisticated air purification system, at the bottom and underneath the lab, decontamination equipment that allows for safe sewage disposal. The research takes place here on the second floor, some have questioned the lab staff's training, and the Chinese themselves even raised concerns in 2018. At the time, the WIV's Director Yuan Zhiming, co-authored a paper pointing out safety issues across all biosafety labs in China. He warned in part that there was a lack of enough operable technical standards. 
 
But there is another lower level biosafety lab in Wuhan, the Wuhan Center for Disease Control. Research was also conducted here, including that of bats and corona viruses.
 
REP. MICHAEL MCCAUL (R-TX): I do believe because it was at a level two facility. Not level four. Level two is very low grade security, that it did leak out as they're trying to create this monster in the virus with an eye towards creating a vaccine.
 
CULVER: We drove by the Wuhan Center for Disease Control in 2021, located just a couple of blocks from the Huanan Seafood Market in fact, the Chinese government has repeatedly denied the claims that the virus leaked from a lab and its state media unleashed a relentless propaganda campaign. 
 
Using digital articles, T.V. reports, documentaries, even a rap saw. The aim to sow doubt and deflect blame. They've also pushed conspiracy theories, including a lab leak, not a lab in Wuhan. But this one, Fort Detrick in the United States, the home of a U.S. Army Biological Laboratory. 
 
Though there is no evidence the virus leaked from here, that has not stopped Chinese officials from pushing their version of a lab leak theory.
 
Monday's response from the foreign ministry also cited the World Health Organization, which throughout the outbreak regularly echoed the Chinese government's narrative, taking them at their word.
 
In January 2021, the WHO sent a team of international experts into Wuhan to research the origins. But that was already more than a year after the initial outbreak, the team initially considered the lab leak theory to be highly unlikely. 
 
But when the WHO requested a second field visit for more research, China said no. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CULVER (on camera): When you look at this assessment from the Department of Energy, you begin to realize as far as that collective is concerned within the intelligence community, there is no unanimous conclusion as to how this virus started. The origin remains really a mystery. Some are leaning towards with certain likelihood, one conclusion over another. 
 
The majority of the intelligence community though does seem to suggest that this started naturally, or that there just isn't enough evidence to make a definitive conclusion. David Culver, CNN, Washington.
 
VAUSE: Jamie Metzl is a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council and served on the National Security Council during the Clinton Administration. Jamie, good to see you.
 
JAMIE METZL, SENIOR FELLOW, ATLANTIC COUNCIL (on camera): Nice to see you, John. 
 
VAUSE: OK, so this has to do with what you've been saying for a very long time, your theories and your thoughts about the origin of this coronavirus. Here's a sample of how the story has been covered over the past 24 hours.
 
From CNN, assessment COVID-19 leaked from Chinese Lab is a minority view within U.S. intel community. The lab leak theory was a victim of left wing culture wars says the National Review. The Wall Street Journal which first broke this story, White House says there's no consensus on COVID origin.
 
And before this new information was uncovered, the U.S. intelligence community had a theory, they believe that the two hypotheses are plausible, natural exposure to an infected animal at a laboratory associated incident. 
 
What is notable though is that when the other agencies saw the new information, none of them changed their conclusion within the intelligence community. 
 
So, answer me this, is there any benefit from this new revelation, this new information? Does it bring any clarity to where the virus actually came from?
 
METZL: There's a benefit, it brings a little bit more information in my view, it continues the process from the early days where everybody for some reason seems to know without evidence, it came from the market to increasing acceptance that it may very well have come from the lab.
 
The Department of Energy oversees the U.S. national laboratories like Lawrence Livermore National Lab, they have in their employment, some of the top scientists in the world. 
 
So, it's very significant that the Department of Energy has shifted its view from it's a jump ball to it probably comes from a lab. But this is not completely transformative. And that's why we need a comprehensive investigation into pandemic origins, including a bipartisan national COVID-19 committee. We need stronger investigation at the international level through the World Health Organization, because it's really important to get to the bottom of how this crisis began so that we can be better able to prevent future ones.
 <br>[00:15:31] VAUSE: And getting to the bottom of how this all began requires cooperation from China. I want to go through part of what Mao Ning spokesperson for the foreign ministry said in Beijing on Monday, China has always actively supported and participated in global science based origin tracing. Really? Since when? 
 
She goes on explaining why the lab leak theory is very unlikely. It is an authoritative scientific conclusion. No, it's not. Drawn by joint experts from China and the World Health Organization on the basis of field visits to relevant laboratories in Wuhan. Those visits were directed a controlled every step of the way by those ever present government minders. 
 
She goes on and in depth exchanges with relevant scientific researchers. They were never allowed to speak in private to anyone from that WHO delegation. 
 
You know, this constant reference to the joint report between China and the World Health Organization. You know, that research what you want to call it, it was a glorified dog and pony show. And in moments like this, it gives Beijing this chance to say nothing to hide. We've all been -- we've gone through (INAUDIBLE), we've done everything we possibly can. That's the -- that's the harm that was done by that trip.
 
METZL: Well, I agree. I feel like whatever it's called the Washington Nationals that trip that used to -- the team that used to travel around with the Harlem Globetrotters. So, the Harlem Globetrotters could dribble around and show up. I agree with everything that you just said, John, that joint study process controlled by the Chinese government was an absolute sham. 
 
On February 9 2021, there was a press conference in Wuhan, it was really one of the absolute low points of international public health, where this small group of independent experts basically parroted Chinese propaganda points. 
 
But to the great credit of the World Health Organization and Dr. Tedros Adhanom, the Director General two days later, he essentially rejected that the statements that were made in Wuhan on February 9th, and said, all hypotheses are on the table. And that's why the World Health Organization abolished that joint study process and created a new entity, the scientific advisory group on the investigating the origins of novel pathogens, SAGO, that is now trying at least to do more.
 
But you're exactly right, at least that little voice over your shoulder was exactly right. China is doing everything possible to prevent any meaningful investigation into pandemic origins.
 
VAUSE: I want you to listen to the State Department spokesperson on what the State Department would like China to do, here's Ned Price.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NED PRICE, STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN: We would wish to see from the PRC, a greater degree of responsibility, a greater acknowledgement that it's in the interests of the Chinese people, yes, to better understand the origins of COVID-19. But it's in the interest of people around the world to understand the origins of COVID-19.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Yes, that's going to happen.
 
METZL: John, can I -- can I do like a yawn? Like, a little yawn emoji here. Like that was very nice. It's very polite. 
 
Here's what we need to be saying. This is an absolute outrage that China is preventing any comprehensive and unfettered investigation into COVID-19 origins is an absolute insult to the 15 million people who have died from this avoidable pandemic and their families. 
 
It puts us and future generations at unnecessary risk for the good of China and for the good of world -- of the world. Everyone must demand the kind of investigation that is absolutely required. And we have to have a process to learn the lessons of our failures to build a safer future for everyone.
 
VAUSE: Well said, we'll leave it at that. Jamie Metzl, thank you so much. Good to see you. 
 
METZL: Thanks. Nice to see you, my friend. 
 
VAUSE: For 959 days, a mandatory mask mandate in Hong Kong is set to end. From Wednesday, one of $1,000 fine for not wearing a mask outdoors indoors and on public transport will no longer be enforced. 
 
In December, Hong Kong added most pandemic restrictions as well as COVID testing for arriving travelers. At the time, chief executive John Lee said this move stems from confidence within the vaccination rate level as well as the level of natural immunity within the population. 
 
With that, we'll take a short break. When we come back, an Israeli American killed in the West Bank. And there is outrage and anger after Palestinian homes are torched. The latest on the surging violence in a moment. 
 
Also, the U.S. Treasury Secretary makes an unannounced trip to Ukraine. More of her visit and her exclusive interview with CNN.
 
And latest shock and horror in Hong Kong, after a brutal killing of a model and influencer by police believe her ex-husband and former in laws were involved.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:22:12]
 
VAUSE: An Israeli official say an Israeli American was killed in a terrorist attack in the West Bank. The latest deadly shooting happened on a highway outside the city of Jericho on Monday. In Tel Aviv, hundreds of Israelis filled the streets to protest de-
 
 escalating violence, with many condemning attacks by other Israelis on Sunday which targeted Palestinians in the West Bank. 
 
Officials say at least one Palestinian man died many others were injured. Several homes and buildings were set on fire.
 
An official from the Israeli military says they consider the violence "actions of terror". Authorities believe they were done to avenge two Israeli brothers who were killed earlier that day. 
 
On Monday, both men were mourned by thousands of people at a funeral of Jerusalem.
 
Another show -- another strong show of support for Ukraine, U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen travel to Kyiv in a surprise visit and she stressed that aid Ukraine is now more vital than ever. 
 
Yellen met with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to discuss U.S. economic assistance and efforts to impose severe sanctions on Russia. She also met with the Prime Minister who said Washington is committed to writing more than $10 billion in budget support by September, that says Ukraine's budget deficit is expected to hit $38 billion this year. 
 
CNN's Melissa Bell spoke exclusively with Yellen and asked her if she thinks Moscow is listening.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
JANET YELLEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY: I think they are listening. I think that we have imposed very serious costs on them. And they hear from not only the United States, but a large coalition, many allies. The moral outrage that we feel and they see our determination to make them pay a price.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: To the east of Kyiv, Ukrainian military officials and even the president himself describing more challenging situations unfolding in Bakhmut on the Eastern front lines. 
 
Ukraine says Bakhmut remains the epicenter of Russia's nonstop attacks, as Russian forces gradually advance, making it harder for Ukrainian units to maintain access to the city. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen reports on how Moscow is portraying its progress on the battlefield.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Russian Defense Ministry video from the war in Ukraine showing Moscow's troops on the move, gaining ground beating back Kyiv's forces. But the reality at least in some cases seems different. These soldiers
 
 say they were mobilized from Irkutsk in Siberia, and they're refusing to fight. 
 
Due to the current state of affairs, we find ourselves in a desperate position as the commanders do not care about our lives, he says, and later ads we ask for help. We have nowhere else to turn. 
 <br>[00:25:03]
 
The video was published as The Ukrainian say they've decimated Russian forces trying to assault Vuhledar in eastern Ukraine. And after a public spat between Yevgeny Prigozhin of the Wagner private military company and the Russian Defense Ministry over ammo supplies to Wagner mercenaries around Bakhmut.
 
Well, Prigozhin says the issue has been resolved. He took another swipe at the defense ministry. A big number of former soldiers who are now part of Wagner came here because they were looking for more creative freedom, since everyone understands the army doesn't always enable that. 
 
When we asked Prigozhin whether ties with the defense ministry have been restored, a snarky answer. Guys, you're CNN, enemy spies, have a conscience. How can I discuss military issues with you? He wrote on his social media channel. 
 
Wagner's forces say they've gained ground around Bakhmut this weekend, Russian state media released this drone footage of the utter destruction there. And the Ukrainians claimed Wagner's losses are immense. 
 
Former Putin advisor Sergei Markov tells me he doesn't believe Prigozhin uses his forces as cannon fodder because he owns them.
 
SERGEI MARKOV, FORMER PUTIN ADVISOR: Storming group but Prigozhin according to my information, he try to preserve their life because it's these -- their lives, his property, and he's a businessman. 
 
PLEITGEN: Their lives are his property?
 
MARKOV: Yes.
 
PLEITGEN: But while progress is hard to come by for his army, Russian President Vladimir Putin shows no signs of backing down, instead proclaiming the Ukraine war to be a conflict with the West. 
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): They have one goal to break up the former Soviet Union and its main part, the Russian Federation. For what? To push the remnants around and put them under their direct control.
 
PLEITGEN (on camera): And we were hearing some similar things from Vladimir Putin on Monday when he congratulated the Special Operations Forces of Russia to Special Operations Forces Day. He said that they were saving the Russian nation and Russian lands from what he called Ukrainian Neo Nazis. We expect to hear more from Vladimir Putin on Tuesday when he is set to hold a speech to the FSB, the Russian intelligence service.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Moscow.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: The Russian president has signed a decree honoring U.S. actor and Russian citizens Steven Seagal, with the state Order of Friendship. Seagal became a U.S. citizen in 2016. Notably, he doesn't actually live in mother Russia, but he does visit regularly apparently.
 
He earned this high honor for his great contribution to the development of international cultural and humanitarian cooperation. Who knew? Seagal has supported Russia's invasion of Ukraine even visited the occupied Donbas area last summer. 
 
Just ahead, the voting is done in Africa's largest democracy but the anger and criticism of how it's handled is only growing as many complained of voter -- voting irregularities. Also ahead, we hear from the U.S. first lady over the 2024 speculation
 
 about her husband, will he run for another term? More on that.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back to viewers all around the world. I'm John Vaus. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM.
 <br>[00:30:40]
 
A former Nigerian president has accused his country's electoral commission of corruption and is now calling for a fresh vote in polling places disrupted by violence, where officials failed to show up on Saturday. 
 
As results slowly are tabulated, complaints of voting irregularities continue to grow. The polling results -- don't have the polling results more than the actual results more than 24 hours after polls closed.
 
The presidential vote in Africa's largest democracy is expected to be the closest in Nigeria's history. 
 
Here more now from CNN's Larry Madowo, reporting in from Lagos.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The Nigerian election now coming in for strong criticism from multiple quarters. Voters, opposition parties, observer groups and, most extraordinarily, former president Olusegun Obasanjo.
 
He says the election process was corrupted and is recommending a repeat in parts of the country where the election did not take place, where ballot boxes were destroyed, or there was violence, or technology failed. 
 
Here's how the money was spent on the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System, or BVAS. Also, on an electronic transmission to the National Collation Center. But these technologies appear to have failed. 
 
The scale is unknown at this time, but President Obasanjo says it's time for a repeat. 
 
GEN. OLUSEGUN OBASANJO: (UNINTELLIGIBLE) and servers have been manipulated or rendered inactive. Such results must be declared void and inadmissible for election declaration. 
 
MADOWO: There have also been some positive statements from some of the other groups, like from the African Union, from ECHOES (ph). That is a West African  regional body. And from the commonwealth observer group.
 
They mentioned that the election was on schedule and largely peaceful. 
 
But some strong words of criticism from the European Union observer mission that pointed out that this election lacked efficient planning and transparency during critical stages of the electoral process. And this has led to a huge hit in the credibility of the independent national electoral commission. 
 
But even more criticism from the International Republican Institute and the National Democratic Institute. In their report, preliminary at this stage, it says that "The election fell well short of Nigerian citizens' reasonable explanations." And it points out "Logistical challenges and multiple incidents of political violence overshadowed the electoral process and impeding a substantial number of voters from participating." 
 
These are just preliminary statements at this time, but they are in lockstep with the complaints we've been hearing from voters across the nation who just feel disenfranchised by a process that they feel was not well-managed by the INEC. That is the electoral body. 
 
How much of it was incompetence and how much of it was deliberate voter suppression is hard to tell at this time. 
 
Larry Madowo, CNN, Lagos. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Not exactly a surprise but U.S. first lady Jill Biden seems convinced her husband will run for reelection next year. Joe Biden would be almost 82 by the time of next year's election and 86 at the end of a second term. 
 
But the first lady says his surprise visit to Ukraine last week shows he still has the energy for another presidential campaign and another four years in office. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JILL BIDEN, FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED STATES: It's Joe's decision, and we support whatever he wants to do. If he's in, we're there. If he wants to do something else, we're there, too. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Is there any chance at this point that he's not going to run? 
 
BIDEN: Not in my book. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You're all for it? 
 
BIDEN: I'm all for it. Of course. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Jill Biden was speaking during a five-day trip to Kenya and Namibia. 
 
A court in Hong Kong has reportedly denied bail to four family members charged in the gruesome killing of model Abby Choi. Her ex-husband and former in-laws appeared in court Monday, a day after police identified parts of her dismembered body. 
 
More details now from CNN's Kristie Lu Stout, and a warning: her report contains disturbing content. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A fashion model and mother brutally murdered in Hong Kong in a case that is sending shockwaves through the usually safe city. 
 
Twenty-eight-year-old Abby Choi was a well-known social media influencer with more than 100,000 followers on Instagram who just weeks ago appeared on the digital cover of a luxury magazine. She was reported missing on Wednesday. 
 <br>[00:35:06]
 
On Friday, police say pieces of her body were found in a refrigerator in the Northern Tai Po district of Hong Kong. They also found a meat slicer and an electric saw. And later, police discovered a head, ribs and hair in a soup pot. 
 
SUPERINTENDENT ALAN CHUNG, HONG KONG POLICE: It's a skull, with hair. And as I said, unfortunately, there's a hole on the right side rear of the skull. So the pathologist believes that that should be the fatal -- fatal attack on the victim. 
 
STOUT (voice-over): Police arrested Abby Choi's ex-husband on suspicion of murder on Saturday. Police said they caught him at a pier on the city's Lantau Island. 
 
STOUT: Reuters reports that Choi's ex-husband, Alex Kwong, appeared here at the Kowloon City Magistrates' Court on Monday. Along with his father and brother, they are all accused of murder. Kwong's mother also appeared in court. She's accused of obstructing the case. All four were denied bail. STOUT (voice-over): Over the weekend, authorities launched a massive search operation to track down the rest of the model's remains. They deployed more than 100 police officers, including abseil (ph) team and divers to search a cemetery and nearby catchwater in the area of Tim Kwono (ph). They're still looking for several body parts. 
 
A gruesome murder of this young woman in the spotlight, who leaves behind four children, including two from the ex-husband who is now in custody. 
 
Kristie Lu Stout, CNN, Hong Kong. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: A new study links high levels of commonly-available artificial sweetener to an increased risk for heart attacks, strokes and death. 
 
Erythritol is a zero-calorie sugar substitute used in foods and beverages, often marketed to people with diabetes. 
 
The Calorie Control Council used (ph) the study from the Cleveland Clinic, looked at people already at high risk for heart disease and that the results contradict decades of research showing the sweetener is safe. 
 
Still ahead here on CNN, we'll take you to the Mobile World Conference -- Congress. Details on the battle brewing between big tech and telecom operators. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: The Canadian government is banning TikTok from all official electronic devices over cybersecurity concerns. A review of the app found unacceptable levels of risk to privacy and security.
 <br>[00:40:02]
 
The U.S. and the European Union have announced similar restrictions on the Chinese-owned app over fears that TikTok could be forced to share users' data with the Chinese government. 
 
This year's Mobile World Congress, the E.U. industry chief, Tony Breton, says he will not be taking sides in a clash between big tech and European telecom operators. 
 
The animosity is over who should fund the roll-out of high-speed Internet. Here's CNN's Anna Stewart.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The Mobile World Congress this year isn't just about the big unveils at some of the booths, the latest smartphones, tablets, VR headsets. 
 
It's also about what's happening on the main stage, because a battle has been brewing now for months. It really started in earnest, though, last week, when in Brussels the EU Commissioner Thierry Breton announced a consultation, which essentially is looking at who should pay for the future of high-speed Internet, which after all, will underpin all the new technologies that Europe would like to see thrive in the market. Artificial intelligence, virtual reality, Web 3.
 
And according to the GSMA, which represents telecom companies, and of course, hosts this big event, $1.5 trillion is needed in investment between now and 2030. 
 
Well, telecom companies say they cannot foot that bill alone. The CEO of Orange says that nearly half of telecom CEOs -- and this is a report from PWC -- are worried that they will not survive another decade. 
 
CHRISTEL HEYDEMANN, CEO, ORANGE: In order to achieve the E.U. digital decade, we do believe that the fair and direct contribution to network costs will help create the better conditions we urgently need to keep investing privately, rather than requiring public funding. 
 
STEWART: So the big question is who should pay? Should big tech, Netflix, Amazon, Apple, Google, should they be paying for the future of the Internet, given they drive so much traffic?
 
Well, Meta, for one, says certainly not. In a statement released last week, they said that they already invest "tens of billions of dollars in their apps and platforms each year to facilitate the hosting of content." And they say this is creating enormous value flows across the digital ecosystem. 
 
Well, I did catch up with Thierry Breton, the E.U. commissioner who's heading up this consultation. And I asked him whether this is  fight between telecoms and tech. He says not. 
 
He says it's all about collaboration. 
 
THIERRY BRETON, E.U. COMMISSIONER: Let's look at the future. What do we want to build together? And know it will not be a summit for them today. For the platform to be better services to the consumer, for the telecom to be practically the same, and again, for the benefit of our consumer. 
 
STEWART: Of course, consumers may actually end up spending more in Europe if tech firms place an internet tax and that gets passed on. 
 
Well, there is plenty for the telcos and big tech to argue about over the next 12 weeks, because that's how long this consultation will take. 
 
Anna Stewart, CNN, from the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: The accolades continue for football legend Lionel Messi, who was named the FIFA's men's player of 2022 after leading Argentina to victory in the World Cup, the only major championship he had -- was yet to win. The 35-year-old scored two goals during the final versus France. 
 
On the women's side, player of the year went to Alexia Putellas, who led Barcelona to a third straight Spanish championship last year. 
 
Thank you for watching CNN NEWSROOM. I'm John Vause. I'll be back with more news at the top of the hour. In the meantime, please stay with us. WORLD SPORT is up after a very short break. See you in 1 minutes.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:20]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[00:57:35]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)