Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Former U.S. President Donald Trump Pleads Not Guilty to 34 Felony Counts; New Tornado Watch for Portions of Arkansas, Illinois, Missouri; Blinken at Meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers Today; Taiwan's President to Meet with U.S. House Speaker Today. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired April 05, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN BOLTON, FORMER U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR: Well, speaking as someone who very strongly does not want Donald Trump to get the Republican presidential nomination, I'm extraordinarily distressed by this document. I think this is even weaker than I feared it would be. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Lashed out at Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg and the presiding judge in the case. Here's what Bragg's predecessor had to say about it all. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CYRUS VANCE JR., FORMER MANHATTAN DISTRICT ATTORNEY: I found that the document actually quite detailed. I mean, it is a speaking indictment. And it has quite a bit of detail about the history and laid out the facts underlying the various counts that are listed. So, I thought that the indictment provided more detail than perhaps others expected. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Bernarda Villalona is a criminal defense attorney and a former prosecutor. She joins us live from New York. We're waiting for all of these counts to be made public. We didn't know quite what was in them. What stood out for you? 
 
BERNARDA VILLALONA, CRIMINAL DEFENSE ATTORNEY: Well, it definitely was that stood out to me. This is definitely unprecedented times. But what stood out to me in terms of the counts, is that they're all felony counts. Felony counts that carry up to a four year sentence on each one of those counts. But everything is shaped around the payment that was made to Stormy Daniels of $130,000 in order to cover up a story to benefit the 2016 campaign by Donald Trump. 
 
NOBILO: And what do you think Trump is most likely to face as a result of these challenges? Is a fine the most likely scenario? 
 
VILLALONA: So, it all depends. So of course, these are 34 counts, and for each one of these counts, he can face up to four years and it can be consecutive to each other. But it can also be as minimum as probation. And that is if he were to be found guilty. 
 
Donald Trump has already stated that he will not plead guilty to any of these counts. So, we should expect a jury trial to take place at some point in the future because we don't know when it will take place. And when it does, 12 jurors will have to unanimously agree whether he's guilty or not guilty of any of these accounts or all of these counts. 
 
FOSTER: How hard is it for the prosecution to prove the case unequivocally?
 
VILLALONA: So, any case is very difficult to prove. There's no guarantee in a conviction in any case that you put before a jury. However, it is very early on. We don't know much information. While an indictment was unsealed, it doesn't give the exact information of every piece of evidence that was presented to that grand jury. Because, in the end, a grand jury did hear the evidence presented and voted to indict Donald Trump. 
 
It's going to be a long road ahead, but based on the statement of facts, we hear that they are emails, text messages and even an audio recording as well as phone calls and documentary evidence in order to corroborate the testimony that these payments were made in furtherance of concealing of crime. 
 
NOBILO: And Bernarda, of course, in this case in New York of the 34 felony counts is not the only one in which former President Trump faces some form of legal jeopardy. Which of the other cases do you think potentially could present the greatest challenge to Trump? 
 
VILLALONA: Well, all of them taken together can have a great challenge to Donald Trump. You have to think, but the first one, of course , is New York County because they are actual charges. He has been arrested, and now he's been arraigned on those charges. The other investigations are still ongoing. We don't have any charges or pending arrest to make any determination as to what is to happen. 
 
But either way he has exposure, at least on three other cases, having to deal with classified documents, with interference that the election in Georgia as well as the January 6th insurrection. Either one of those alone can still expose him to jail time. 
 
FOSTER: In terms of the timeline here. Is it likely that this trial would take place during the presidential election? 
 
VILLALONA: So that is the million-dollar question. When will the New York County trial take place? As of now, the next court date is not until December, the end of this year. And that's for decisions or any motions to dismiss or any other types of motions that either the prosecution or Donald Trump's legal team puts before the judge. 
 
Even after that date, a decision has to be made of when the trial would take place which puts us into 2024. So, it is possible that if Donald Trump receives the Republican nomination that he can be receiving a Republican nomination and still have a pending trial open or going through a trial. 
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
Aside from that, just because New York was the first place to actually charge and arrest Donald Trump, it doesn't mean that if there are other cases in the Atlanta or DC whether those cases they can also go first. It all depends on what's going on. It's a decision that is made by Donald Trump being the defendant if those cases were to proceed with an arrest. 
 
NOBILO: Bernarda Villalona thank you so much for joining us. 
 
FOSTER: Trump voters. Reacting to the former president's indictments, CNN's Danny Freeman is in the swing state Pennsylvania to find out how some voters there feel. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Now we're in Media, Pennsylvania that's in Delaware County. It's one of the collar counties surrounding Philadelphia, the all important Philadelphia suburbs when it comes to presidential elections. And I want to introduce you to voters that we spoke with both Republicans. 
 
The first one is a gentleman by the name of Bill he's a longtime Republican voter who voted for Trump twice. But after all the commotion, including this particular scandal and others before, he says he is now shopping for other Republican candidates. And then also introduce you to another Republican voter. Who says, do you know what? Trump is still my guy even through this latest scandal. 
 
BILL: I think he's divisive.
 
FREEMAN: But when it comes to thinking about Trump in 2024, you kind of feel like you gave him a shot already.
 
BILL: He had his shot and he blew it as far as I'm concerned. 
 
FREEMAN: Does President Trump being charged today, does that change your perspective going into 2024? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Not at all.
 
FREEMAN: Why not? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Not all. He's still -- still has same values, views as he did. So, I still support that.
 
FREEMAN: So, as you can see, die hard supporters of the former president, they're still staying in his column for now. However, other Republicans are looking for other options, especially after these charges. 
 
Danny Freeman, CNN Media, Pennsylvania.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) FOSTER: Several prominent Fox News hosts will be called to testify in Dominion Voting Systems defamation case. The trial against the network, Dominion is suing Fox for $1.6 billion, claiming the network pushed various pro-Trump conspiracy theories about the election technology company. 
 
NOBILO: In court filings, the network said it would call as part of its defense, Tucker Carlson, Sean Hannity and other high-profile hosts and executives. Dominion also wants to question them as part of their case. 
 
We're following the severe weather across the U.S. Midwest and South. More than 60 million people in the U.S. are under some level of severe weather threat. A tornado has just been reported in Arkansas, which is under a tornado watch until later today, along with portions of Illinois and Missouri.
 
FOSTER: Our CNN meteorologist Britley Ritz joining us from Atlanta with more on the severe weather threat. What's happening right now, Britley? 
 
BRITLEY RITZ, CNN METEOROLOGIST: That tornado that you said was reported in Arkansas now starting to make its way over the state line into Missouri. This is Ripley County, Missouri, under a tornado warning until 3:45. This is a particularly dangerous situation here. The tornado still reported on the ground near Gatewood, moving quickly off to the north and east at roughly 50 to 55 mph. So, if you are within this fuchsia box, you need to seek shelter immediately. Get to your safe spot. Gatewood, Flatwoods, Doniphan all in the line of fire for this storm itself. 
 
And that's not the only tornado warning that's in place. Madison County also under a tornado warning until 4:00 Central Time. And we get down to the one that was under a tornado warning, now weakening under a severe thunderstorm warning. This is Fulton and Izard and Sharp County until 3:45 Central Time. 
 
Again, these storms are moving quickly. Whether or not you're under a tornado warning, these storms are very strong. We need to heed warning with them overall. We have that tornado watch box in place until 9:00 Central Time for southern Illinois back down into central Arkansas -- Little Rock included. 
 
Back behind that severe thunderstorm watch boxes for eastern Iowa back down into northeast Oklahoma until the next hour or so. Unfortunately, this is not just the threat this morning. We have to deal with it throughout the afternoon and into the evening for the Great Lakes in the Ohio Valley, Detroit, Memphis, Nashville, Louisville, Columbus, all included in that area in orange, where we're a little more vulnerable for that tornado threat. Really focusing in on southern Michigan back into northern Ohio as well as Indiana for that tornado threat. 
 
Large hail and damaging winds. We're talking hail two inches in diameter. Also, winds gusting over 75 mph at times. Time frame here -- look at this -- Wednesday morning, 9:00 Central Time moving through the Great Lakes starting to work its way into the Ohio Valley. It really ramps up through the afternoon. That again is where we have the heart of severe weather. And then, of course, it starts to weaken as we move back into the mid-Atlantic and off toward the East Coast. 
 
FOSTER: We'll Keep an eye on it. Britley thank you. 
 
NOBILO: U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in Brussels meeting NATO foreign ministers. What he said about Russia's Vladimir Putin coming up next. 
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: NATO foreign ministers are meeting in Brussels today, including U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken. He's been holding talks with his counterparts from New Zealand and Croatia. 
 
FOSTER: Finland became the military alliance's 31st member on Tuesday and Blinken Gave credit to Russian president Vladimir Putin for the move. Saying this is maybe the one thing to thank him for. 
 
This is the moment an Honor Guard raised Finland's flag outside NATO headquarters in Brussels on Tuesday. This marks a strategic change for Finland, which avoided joining for decades but changed course when Russia invaded Ukraine. 
 
NOBILO: Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Belarusian counterpart Alexander Lukashenko, is scheduled to hold a meeting in Moscow today. 
 
FOSTER: Finland's entry into NATO, doubled the alliance's border with Russia. 
 
NOBILO: For more on all of this, we're joined by Nada Bashir. Nada, what else will Blinken be discussing while he's in Brussels? 
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, look, he's set to have a number of meetings with his NATO counterparts that's set to continue today. And we do know, of course that he met yesterday, crucially with the Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba, where he reiterated the U.S. government's commitment and support to NATO's cooperation with Ukraine when it comes to his counter offensive against the Russian armed forces. And crucially, he announced further U.S. funding for Ukraine's military effort. Valued at around 500 million U.S. dollars. So, this is going to be a significant boost for the Ukrainian armed forces. 
 
And of course, he is holding a session today with other NATO counterparts, focusing on defense and focusing on the threats and challenges that the NATO alliance is currently facing. And of course, Russia and the war in Ukraine is expected to be top of the agenda. 
 
But of course, as you mentioned there, the big focus continues to be Finland's accession to the NATO alliance. And of course, Russia's response to that. Typically, as expected, Russia has not taken so kindly to this accession by now a 31st member and also a country which has a significant border with Russia. 
 <br>[04:45:03]
 
And of course, now we are seeing the NATO foreign ministers meeting they're gathering for their family photo. There will be a further session later today. But of course, the prime focus continues to be defense against the Russian armed forces, particularly in Ukraine. 
 
FOSTER: Sorry. I was just wondering. Russia's concern isn't necessarily joining perhaps, but the fact that NATO equipment and forces could go closer to the Russian border up in Finland. 
 
BASHIR: Absolutely, and in fact, the Russian foreign ministry in its statement yesterday was pretty clear on that. It did say that Russia now feels that it is forced to respond to this latest expansion of NATO along its border when it comes to the military, technical front and other measures. They didn't go into details. But there was that caveat that this would depend on how far NATO goes. 
 
So, whether or not we will see NATO infrastructure, military hardware and in particular, NATO offensive weapons being deployed to Finland over the coming weeks and months. 
 
NOBILO: Nada Bashir, thank you. 
 
FOSTER: Now the U.S. House Speaker is poised to meet with Taiwan's president in the coming hours. An historic meeting, which is already drawing warnings from (INAUDIBLE) and condemnation, off course, from China. Kevin McCarthy is expected to host President Tsai Ing-wen at the Reagan Presidential Library in California for the talks. Beijing says it resolutely opposes the meeting. 
 
CNN's Marc Stewart is following all these developments for us from Tokyo. And the images are, you know, pretty potent when you're looking at from China's point of view. 
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: No question. Good morning, Max. Hi there, Bianca. Look, if we talk about this visit, there is so much symbolism. First of all, this is the first time a president from Taiwan is on U.S. soil meeting with the U.S. House Speaker. That sends a message within itself. 
 
But if we also look at the invite list, there are members of Congress, including Representative Pete Aguilar, who is a leading Democrat, as well as members of Congress, who sits on the select China committee. That sends a statement. 
 
And then let's look at the venue where this meeting is being held. It's been held at the Reagan Library, a hallmark in many ways of U.S. history. A spot where U.S. president -- were a U.S. presidential debate took place. That too sends a message. So, for those reasons, it is certainly angering China. 
 
As this is taking place, there is also another diplomatic visit that has now started earlier this morning, French President Emmanuel Macron arrived in Beijing for a state visit -- a Chinese state visit with President Xi. Now it'll be interesting to see exactly how much is accomplished there. Because this is a state visit, and not that it's not serious and not that it's not formal. But there is some room for relaxation. 
 
For example, the French president will be attending a cultural festival, a Chinese French cultural festival. They may perhaps turn down the temperature of the talks and allow President Macron to talk about some very serious matters such as the war in Ukraine and China's support for Russia and its lack of condemnation of Russia's role in all of this. He's not -- he's not going to be scolding. He's not going to be scolding China per se. And, of course, there will also be some room for economic talks. 
 
So the influence of China apparent on many continents -- Max and Bianca. 
 
FOSTER: OK, Marc in Tokyo. Thank you. 
 
Still ahead, Tiger woods, returning to compete in this year's Masters Tournament perhaps for the last time. We'll have an update from Augusta for you. 
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: A new photograph of Britain's King Charles and Camilla has been released alongside the official invitation for the upcoming coronation. It refers to her as Queen Camilla for the first time, marking a change from the queen consort title that she's been using up till now. 
 
NOBILO: The coronation service will take place at Westminster Abbey in London on May 6th in front of 2,000 guests. Buckingham Palace also announced that eight pages of honor have been chosen to attend the coronation, including King Charles, grandson and heir to the throne, Prince George. 
 
FOSTER: I was speaking to someone the palace this morning, saying that the coronation is an appropriate time to start using Queen Camilla in an official capacity. They said that the consort title was used to avoid some confusion in relation to Queen Elizabeth II and now is the appropriate time to start using the queen title. 
 
NOBILO: So is it more of a decision on the basis of public sensitivity? Just they wanted to wait a while after the death of Queen Elizabeth II,
 
FOSTER: Yes, and I think the back of everyone's minds, you know Diana was going to be Queen Diana. So it's stepping into the title that she would have had, and there was a huge amount of sensitivity about that. But I think Charles has basically put his foot down and said, I want her to be Queen. 
 
Golf. This week, the golf superstar Tiger Woods will be competing at the Masters for the 25th time in his career. A tournament, which he has won five times.
 
NOBILO: At 47 years old and two years after surviving a car accident, the game is harder on him physically than it used to be. CNN's "WORLD SPORT" Don Riddell asked Woods about the significance of this year's competition. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN WORLD SPORT: When you're playing this course, does it ever cross your mind this could be the last time?
 
TIGER WOODS, PROFESSIONAL GOLFER: Yes, it has. I didn't know -- I mean, last year was kind of -- I didn't know if I was I was going to play again at that time. For some reason, everything kind of came together and kind of pushed a little bit. I was able to make the cut, which was nice. And yes. I don't know how many more I have in me. So, just to be able to appreciate the time that I have here and then cherish the memories.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
NOBILO: But of course, a Masters champion like woods does have an invitation for life automatically. So, it'll just be his decision whether or not he wants to play in future. They always have an invitation. 
 
FOSTER: And you could take a break and come back, I guess, but he's getting older, isn't he? How long could he go on for? How long is it?
 
NOBILO: Well, it appears they're having longer and longer careers these days, I don't know, but he'll want to be at the top of his game, obviously, and no other sportsman choose to retire, rather than struggle on. 
 
FOSTER: I'm told now, this is the story everyone's talking about -- not golf, not the queen, a new teaser trailer for the "Barbie" movie, bringing the iconic doll to life. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RYAN GOSLING, ACTOR, KEN IN "BARBIE": Hi, Barbie. 
 
MARGOT ROBBIE, ACTRESS, BARBIE IN "BARBIE": Hi, Ken. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: The new footage shows Margot Robbie as the fashionable and versatile doll from toy maker Mattel. Ryan Gosling playing the boyfriend Ken.
 
NOBILO: The star-studded cast also features Hari Nef and Ritu Ary as other Barbies. Simu Liu as rival Ken and Will Ferrell as toy executive. The movie will be released by Warner Brothers, which is owned by CNN's parent company. "Barbie" is set to open in theaters in July. 
 
FOSTER: It looks fun.
 
NOBILO: It does. Did you know that 100 Barbies are (ph) sold every minute? 
 
FOSTER: No, but I can imagine. I mean, you do see them everywhere, don't you, around the world. It's just -- it's not just an American --
 
NOBILO: And you have ton in the office. 
 
FOSTER: I've got loads of home, actually. My daughter was into them massively for a very brief period. And then she dumped them all. 
 
NOBILO: Actor Keanu Reeves is gearing up to bring character John Wick back to the big screen. Lionsgate has just announced a spin off to the "John Wick" series called "Ballerina" is set to hit theaters next summer. 
 
FOSTER: This is more like it, isn't it really. Along with the notoriously unkillable assassin played by Reeves. The film will also feature Oscar nominee Ana de -- how o you say?
 
NOBILO: Armas.
 
FOSTER: -- Armas, as well as Anjelica Houston and Ian McShane? Lots to watch coming up. 
 
Thanks for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM I'm Max Foster. 
 
And I'm Bianca Nobilo. A special edition of "CNN THIS MORNING" is coming up for you next.