Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Niger Rebels Announce Leadership Council; Ukraine Consolidating Battlefield Gains; Public Protests Resume In Israel; England And China Win Day 9 Of Women's World Cup. Aired 3-3:30a ET

Aired July 29, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
LAILA HARRAK, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Hello, welcome to our viewers around the world. I'm Laila Harrak. 
 
Military rebels in Niger set up a new governing council as the international community steps up criticism of the coup against a democratically elected president. 
 
Russia and Ukraine trade missile fire while Ukraine says it is consolidating recent gains on the ground. 
 
And more protests are expected in Israel in response to the controversial judicial reform bill. We will hear from some who support the bill. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over):  Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Laila Harrak. 
 
HARRAK:  More countries and world leaders are joining the chorus of criticism against the coup in Niger as the country's military suspends the constitution, creates a new governing council and installs a new head of state. 
 
The E.U. on Friday decried the coup as an attack on stability and democracy and threatened to suspend all aid. 
 
The French president called the coup, quote, "deeply dangerous for Niger and the whole region," and backed the possible use of sanctions. 
 
U.S. top diplomat Antony Blinken expressed unflagging support for the ousted president Mohamed Bazoum. The coup plotters announced the so- called National Council for the Preservation of the Homeland, with the president to serve as new head of state. 
 
Larry Madowo is following the developments for you from Nairobi. 
 
Good morning. 
 
What's the situation in Niger after the military takeover? LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This new self-declared leader of Niger is playing president now. Shortly after explaining why he decided to rescue the country, in his view, he met with senior officials from all the ministries. These are career public officials. Not political appointees which is why I imagine he didn't meet with the ministers. 
 
They're loyal to who appointed them, Mohamed Bazoum. He met with all of them. A lot of them were members of this 17-member council to protect the homeland. That is now the military group running the country. And he said the work continues. 
 
He has tried to kind of show a sense of normalcy in Niger though the international community are all telling him they did not recognize him, that president Bazoum is still the democratically elected president of the country. 
 
And Bazoum says he has no intention to resign. And this man cannot be leader of the country because he cannot suspend the constitution. And him declaring himself the leader of the country has no basis in law. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FALMATA TAYA, NIAMEY RESIDENT (through translator):  The international community that says they are here for us, we don't want it. We don't want their moral lesson  because they are no longer credible in the eyes of Africans. 
 
We can't understand why they support a coup in Chad and oppose it in Mali and Burkina Faso. This is an internal problem. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO:  This is the sentiment we have heard across the region. There is some strong anti-French sentiment in Central and West Central and West Africa. That is why some people support the military because they feel that president Bazoum was an ally  of the U.S. and France and a puppet of the West so to speak. 
 
And the military can bring what they see as proper Nigerien values. 
 
HARRAK:  Larry Madowo reporting. Thank you very much. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK:  Rama Yade is the senior director of the Africa Center at the Atlantic Council. She is the former French deputy minister for foreign affairs and human rights and the French ambassador to UNESCO. 
 
Madame Ambassador, a warm welcome. Now Niger, another country in the grip of a military coup. 
 <br>[03:05:00]
 
HARRAK:  What makes Niger a strategically crucial ally for the United States, for France and why is Washington so invested in Niger? RAMA YADE, SENIOR DIRECTOR, AFRICA CENTER, ATLANTIC COUNCIL:  Thank you, Laila, for having me. Two reasons; the first one is that Niger is a rich country. Even if half of its population lives under the line of poverty. 
 
Rich of uranium; 20 percent of the uranium from Niger supplies France. 
 
Niger has been regarded, especially Mohamed Bazoum, the president elected, has been regarded as a key ally, strategic partner for Westerns in the fight against terrorism. So it is very -- it is a big loss and very risky. 
 
You just mentioned that in three years, Niger is the third country in West Africa to experience a coup. And international community, nobody has been able to do anything about it. 
 
HARRAK:  What kind of dilemma does the U.S. find itself in now and Niger's Western allies?
 
And why do you think this took them by surprise?
 
Why did no one see this coming?
 
YADE:  You know, it is not now, the question is not about some (INAUDIBLE) to adjust or suspend. It would be -- it's necessary to provide the more important answer to the big challenges faced here. 
 
The U.S. and its allies, especially the French, are surprised by the acceleration of the events in Africa. And I think they are paying the price of an African policy based on reacting to the event rather than transforming the nature, anticipating and transforming the nature of their relationship with African nations. 
 
Africa has deeply changed. A new generation, a politically conscious middle class has demands. They don't accept double or cheap standards when it comes to the continent. As long as they would refuse, the partnership, resting on all networks and all paradigms, the Westerns would continue to be surprised and overwhelmed by the events. 
 
I'm not saying that these butchers will create the new Africa. Not at all. I'm saying the support they may find in a part of the population is motivated by the fact that they ousted weak regimes people did not trust anymore. 
 
HARRAK:  I wanted to ask you about Yevgeny Prigozhin of the Russian Wagner mercenary group. He had a specific take on the events. We will pull up a quote from him. 
 
He says, "What happened in Niger has been brewing for years. The former colonizers are trying to keep the people of African countries in check. In order to keep them in check, the former colonizers are filling these countries with terrorists and various bandit formations. Thus creating a colossal security crisis." 
 
Does this type of argument resonate with the people in Niger and especially what you have just been referring to also, maybe across the Sahel as well?
 
YADE:  For the time being, nobody can say if the Russians have (INAUDIBLE) but there's this coup (ph). But I don't know if they have the means of their policy. 
 
Clearly, with regard to the global powers competition on the African continent, this coup undoubtedly has an impact on the global stage. The global context has never been so tense. 
 
And we see that Wagner would try to expand its influence (ph), would try to use this information to get more strategic wins in that area. 
 
But it is not only about providing security. It is about having a predatory behavior. We know that they are already in Central African Republic, in Mali and they are trying -- and they are doing it to gain more access to raw materials. 
 <br>[03:10:00]
 
YADE:  That helped them to avoid the U.S. and Western sanctions. So for Russians and Wagner, it is something that is very strategic and very important. 
 
But Africa is also a challenge for Russians. As you know, this coup has a special test because it happens, the very day of the Russian- Africa summit opens. After 20 years, if you assess the level of commitment of Russians in Africa, it is very weak. It has nothing to do with China. Nothing to do with the U.S. Nothing to do with the European Union. 
 
So it is very difficult for them to see how they can expand, knowing that they don't have the means of their policy. 
 
HARRAK:  How much does this put the U.S. and France in a bind?
 
Because if they now go ahead and sanction these coup leaders, these coup leaders could just turn toward Russia's Wagner Group. 
 
YADE:  Yes, they could do that. But you know, we had the opportunity these past years now to assess the outcomes produced by Wagner. These terrible massacres, you know, it is in Wagner's track record. I'm not seeing how much Prigozhin has made the difference when it comes to fighting. 
 
For the time being, the wizards (ph) are not there yet. (INAUDIBLE) has marched to Moscow to fill leaks in the (INAUDIBLE) defense system, may have left the impression of a weakening Russian power. 
 
And the (INAUDIBLE) parliament (ph) of Wagner has forced this to Africa, promoting their ousting from the Ukraine down was so negatively perceived in African circles. Already the Russia-Africa summit had the presence of around 20 heads of states, where in October 29 (ph) recorded at least 43 presidents and prime ministers of the same time as Russia was (INAUDIBLE) on the continent for the first time since the fall of the (INAUDIBLE). So that said, Africa saw the challenge. So I'm not sure that the new masters of Niamey can count on Wagner as the solution of their problems or their coming problems.
 
Rama Yade, so good to have you with us. Thank you for this conversation. 
 
YADE:  Thank you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK:  And Russia and Ukraine --
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
HARRAK:  --  Russia and Ukraine are trading missile fire, leaving damage and casualties on both sides of the border. On Friday, Russia struck the city of Dnipro, according to Ukraine. 
 
But across the border, Moscow shot down a Ukrainian missile, it says; 14 people were injured. Another missile was reportedly hit by Russian air defense but didn't cause any casualties. 
 
In Ukraine, military commanders are working to consolidate recent gains, including capturing this village in the Donetsk region. Kyiv apparently ramped up its counteroffensive in recent days. Salma Abdelaziz joins us now from London.
 
Salma, what more can you tell us?
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It is a little too early to know if the counteroffensive has gotten any gains since its outset was announced in the start of June. 
 
Ukrainian forces have absolutely been facing fierce Russian resistance all along that 800-mile-long front line. I mean Russian forces have been digging in for months, of course. They have created these heavily fortified defensive lines that satellite images show could be up to 20 kilometers. 
 
That includes dragon's teeth, that can be several rows deep. They have dug in deep trenches to essentially stop tanks from advancing. They have planted countless land mines. That's if Ukrainian forces can advance enough to reach those defensive lines. 
 <br>[03:15:00]
 
ABDELAZIZ:  Often Russian forces are able to hold back Kyiv's troops just by the very nature of their air superiority. Russian helicopters coming in and bombing those same positions. Ukrainian forces describing it essentially as a hellscape. 
 
But I want to draw your attention to one area along the front lines, where there appear to be modest gains and I do emphasize very modest. The southern front remains the focus for Ukrainian forces. The goal here is to essentially cut through Russia's land bridge on that southern front down to the Sea of Azov, cut it off from Crimea. 
 
I want to draw your attention to the Melitopol access toward the south. There some Russian military -- we can't independently confirm this -- say that Ukrainian forces have been able to either breach or reach Russian defensive lines. 
 
And what they are using is small groups of military engineers to essentially try to cut through those very complicated obstacle courses essentially that have been set in place by Moscow's forces. 
 
You also see toward the Berdyansk access again to the south, to the Sea of Azov, there appears to be modest progress, with Ukrainian forces claiming some villages, some towns. But they are facing fierce, fierce Russian resistance on the ground. 
 
HARRAK:  Salma Abdelaziz, thank you very much. 
 
Still ahead, Taiwan secures a major military package from the United States in the face of threats from China. How U.S. plans to provide the equipment in a way that has never been done before. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
HARRAK:  On Friday, the White House announced a new weapons assistance package for Taiwan worth $345 million. It marks the first time weapons will be transferred to the self-governing island directly from U.S. inventories. 
 
The announcement did not include a list of what would be provided. Taiwan has been holding military drills this week to prepare for a possible Chinese invasion. Beijing claims the island as its territory, despite never having controlled it. 
 
While the U.S. arms Taiwan is trying to beef up relations with other friends in the region. U.S. President Joe Biden will host a summit next month for Japanese prime minister Fumio Kishida and South Korean president Yoon Suk-yeol. 
 
They will reaffirm friendship and their ironclad alliances. The countries have been working to present a united front against North Korea and growing assertiveness from Beijing. 
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
HARRAK:  As they have done since January, protesters in Israel will be out in force again today to demand their government stop its overhaul of the nation's judicial system. It has become a historic showdown with neither side backing off. 
 
A controversial new law enacted on Wednesday will likely add more fuel to today's demonstrations. Critics say it has weakened the supreme court and undermines Israeli democracy. Prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu dismissed the concerns as, quote, "silly." He claims a judicial overhaul is needed to reset the balance of power. 
 
Fred Pleitgen has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over):  While thousands of Israelis are taking to the streets protesting the Netanyahu government's judicial overhaul measures aimed at weakening the country's supreme court, many others, especially more conservative Israelis, say they support at least some of the measures. 
 
We went to Efrat, a settlement in the West Bank.
 
RONNI LOTTNER, ELAZAR RESIDENT:  I feel that the Israeli democracy has actually been stronger now because, at last, the decision is made by the people and by the people voting in parliament.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  While the opposition says the supreme court is the only check on government power, folks here say they believe the court has too much influence and some of its decisions are too far reaching.
 
TOMMY LAMM, EFRAT RESIDENT:  When they came out with these decisions, I felt very uncomfortable with them. 
 
I said, why decision after decision after decision are they deciding this way?
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  The first judicial overhaul bill passed by the Knesset on Monday stops the supreme court from using the standard of reasonableness to shoot down government decisions. A think tank that has long been advocating for a judicial overhaul downplaying its impact.
 
EUGENE KONTOROVICH, KOHELET POLICY FORUM:  The law that was passed makes a tiny, little adjustment in that, beginning to slightly balance the scales while still preserving judicial independence, meaningful judicial review of legislative and executive action.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  But several groups have filed legal petitions against the reasonableness bill with the supreme court. In an interview with CNN's Wolf Blitzer, prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu would not say if he would abide by the ruling in case the supreme court shoots the bill down.
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL:  First of all, we're all subject to the rule of law. The prime minister is subject to the rule of law. The Knesset, our parliament, is subject to the rule of law. The judges are subject to the law. Everybody is subject to the law.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  That caused opposition politician Benny Gantz to accuse Netanyahu of a coup d'etat if Netanyahu would refuse to submit to a supreme court ruling. 
 
And while many Israelis fear social unrest over the judicial overhaul measures, among some in Efrat, a more relaxed view.
 
SONYA GREEN, EFRAT RESIDENT:  Is that on either side of this, everyone is holding the Israeli flag. 
 
What does that say?
 
We love this country on either side.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  But many Israelis say they fear the direction their country is going in and are vowing to continue their protests until the judicial overhaul is stopped -- Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Jerusalem. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK:  England earned a key victory at the Women's World Cup but it could come at a cost. Details on the injury to their star midfielder. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
HARRAK:  The Women's World Cup is set to begin any minute now. This will follow an action-packed night, the day that saw resilient performance from shorthanded China. 
 <br>[03:25:00]
 
HARRAK:  And a thrilling but costly victory for England. CNN's Patrick Snell has the highlights. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  European champions England made it two wins out of two at the Women's World Cup but at what cost?
 
Only managing a narrow victory over Haiti. Their head coach making a couple of changes. It took Lauren James just six minutes to repay the faith, a wonderful strike to put a country 1-0 up, first ever World Cup goal. 
 
England suffering a huge blow before halftime, their star player removed, taken off with a serious-looking knee injury there. Really, really emotional. Well, we wish her all the very best in her recovery. 
 
Denmark taking advantage of a change of mood. They couldn't get the breakthrough. Only the post denying them an equalizer. That was just three minutes from time, 1-0 England the final score. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SARINA WIEGMAN, ENGLAND HEAD COACH:  I think they did a great job. The team really picked it up. But of course, it is not nice to see a player on the pitch. It was very clear she needed to be stopped and she goes off on a -- I don't know how you call it in English. 
 
But, yes, that's not nice. But I think the team picked up really well. And we really had to fight for the win. That's what we did. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SNELL:  Elsewhere, a win for China. The Steel Roses would have been eliminated had they lost the match facing England Tuesday. 
 
England currently top and only need to draw against China. The final group fixed it to win the group mathematically. Everyone still has a chance to advance. But Haiti must beat Denmark to have any hope at all. We'll see how it all plays out on August 1st. For now, it's right back to you. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK:  An astonishing discovery in Rome right in the shadow of the Vatican. Just meters away from St. Peter's Basilica, archaeologists have unearthed ancient ruins they believe were the private theater of the infamous emperor Nero, who ruled nearly 2,000 years ago. 
 
Its location only came to light during the renovation of a nearby piazza. Officials say it will take years to document everything found in the ruins. You probably won't see it like this for long. 
 
Once the site has been thoroughly documented, the plan is to rebury Nero's theater. 
 
Amazing stuff. I'm Laila Harrak. More CNN NEWSROOM in 30 minutes. "The Next Frontier" is up next. I'll see you tomorrow.