Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: IDF: 450+ Hamas Targets Struck Inside Gaze in Past Day; U.N. Chief: Situation in Gaza 'Growing More Desperate'; Israeli Fighter Jets Hit Hezbollah Infrastructure; ICC: Every Strike on Civilian Objects Must Be Justified; Biden Speaks to Netanyahu, Urges Protection of Civilians; U.S. Politician Acquitted on Gun Charge in Hong Kong Court; Acapulco Hurricane Victims Struggle to Find Food, Fuel; Matthew Perry Remembered by Colleagues and Fans. Aired 12-1a ET

Aired October 30, 2023 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
PAULA NEWTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Israel's military is pledging to intensify its ground operation against Hamas targets in Gaza as it keeps up its strikes from the air. 
 <br>[00:00:14]
 
The Israel Defense Forces said on Sunday that it struck more than 450 targets over the past day, including command centers and missile launch sites. 
 
According to CNN analysis of video published by Israeli media, IDF forces have advanced about two miles or a little bit more than three kilometers inside of Gaza. 
 
Now, the troops in the video taken on Sunday can be seen putting an Israeli flag on a resort hotel's rooftop in Gaza. But as the ground invasion expands, the United Nations is warning that the very fabric of society in Gaza is starting to break down, with people breaking into warehouses to try and find survival essentials. 
 
The U.N. secretary-general says the situation there is growing more desperate by the hour. 
 
CNN's Scott McLean is following developments from London and joins us now. You know, Scott, we heard from many politicians and many aid organizations all around the world that this aid was waiting at the gates in Rafah. 
 
What more are we learning about what can be done in the days to come to try and alleviate the desperation? 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It doesn't seem like very much at this stage, Paula. Case in point, France, for instance, said that it sent 17 tons of aid meant for Gaza to Egypt yesterday, which is all well and good, assuming that that aid can actually get into Gaza to help the people that it's meant to. 
 
The difficulty is that, as of yesterday afternoon, only ten trucks were allowed through the Rafah border crossing after having passed security checks to actually get into the territory. 
 
Now you have, as you mentioned, the U.N. and the World Food Programme saying that their warehouses have been looted. The World Food Programme says that this is a sign that the hunger and desperation is growing, and that people are losing hope. And it's pretty easy to see why. 
 
According to Save the Children, more children have died in Gaza in just the last three weeks than were killed in all global armed conflicts in all of last year, and for each of the last three years. And there are no signs that the fighting will let up anytime soon.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
MCLEAN (voice-over): There isn't much left of the Bilal bin Rabah mosque in central Gaza. The building was flattened by an overnight Israeli airstrike. 
 
People inside the neighboring apartment blocks weren't spared either. Roofs were ripped right off, everything now covered in a pale shade of gray. 
 
More than a dozen were killed and more injured, according to medical staff at the local hospital, where outside, the bodies of those killed killed are wrapped in white sheets and marked with their names. 
 
Both the IDF and the Israeli prime minister have renewed calls for civilians to urgently evacuate Northern Gaza. The apartment buildings next to the mosque were filled with people who had heeded those warnings, believing central Gaza would be safer. 
 
"There were no warnings at all," this survivor says. "We've seen the entire thing collapsing on us. We didn't know exactly where the hit was. We started running to get our children out. It's a miracle they survived." 
 
This man said, "There were no warnings. There was a strong airstrike. The people pulled us from underneath the rubble and took us to the hospital." 
 
CNN has reached out to the IDF for comment. 
 
Israel said that overnight, some 450 terror targets were hit, and say that some strikes were directed by troops now on the ground inside Gaza. 
 
This was the aftermath of one of those strikes on a family home in Khan Yunis in Southern Gaza. A desperate scramble to move slabs of concrete, hoping to find survivors. Instead, they found at least one body. 
 
By daybreak, the urgency has gone. A pile of rubble is all that's left. Hospitals already at the breaking point are only getting more overwhelmed. In Deir al-Balah Saturday, doctors operated on this boy on the floor. The Palestinian Red Crescent now says that Israeli authorities called
 
 al Quds Hospital in Gaza City twice with a clear and direct threat that the hospital must be evacuated at once. Otherwise, the Red Crescent holds full responsibility for the lives of everybody inside. That amounts to hundreds of patients and thousands more people taking shelter. 
 
Israel says it called more than twice since the war began and says that Hamas is shielding themselves inside hospitals. 
 
Foreign aid is entering Gaza at a trickle. The desperation apparent in this video of people ransacking a U.N. warehouse, carrying out bags of food. 
 
It may be a temporary lifeline for those people, but the U.N. calls it a worrying sign that civil order is starting to break down as the situation in Gaza only gets worse.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 <br>[00:05:11]
 
MCLEAN: Now, the hospital in Gaza that got the Israeli warnings to evacuate is al Quds Hospital. It is the second largest in Gaza. 
 
The Palestinian Red Crescent is calling on the international community to safeguard that hospital, but frankly, there have already been strikes targeting very nearby. In fact, it says, so close that the hospital itself was damaged. 
 
And you can see in this video some of the hallways being clouded with dust in -- in the aftermath. 
 
The hospital director says that, in addition to the sick and the injured, including children who are babies, who are still in incubators, there are 12,000 people taking shelter there. The vast majority of them are women and children, and he says that there is, frankly, no safe way to evacuate all of those people. 
 
He also denied the Israeli accusation that Hamas is taking cover there, saying that no one who is armed is allowed inside the facility. 
 
The WHO, by the way, had previously a few weeks ago stated that Israeli insistence or Israeli calls for that hospital and 21 others across Northern Gaza to be evacuated were tantamount to a death sentence for the sick and injured -- Paula. 
 
NEWTON: Yes, that kind of operation just not possible, even under normal circumstances, never mind as there are airstrikes ongoing. Scott McLean for us. Appreciate the update. 
 
Now, the humanitarian crisis, as you just saw, is taking an especially heavy toll on Gaza's children. CNN spoke to four children and one adult at the Deir El-Balah refugee camp about their traumatizing experiences and living conditions as this war rages on. 
 
Here are some of their absolutely heartbreaking stories. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAJDY ABUL KHEIR, LIVES AT DEIR AL-BALAH REFUGEE CAMP (through translator): This is the most difficult war for us, because we were going to school like any normal people but heard the sound of rockets, so we went back home. This continued, so we went to our relatives in the city center. We went there, but the war continued, and as a result, we came here. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): We have come here to the schools of Deir El-Balah. I don't know how to describe the schools. They are virtually lifeless. Lifeless for the children, grown-ups, and the elderly. 
 
The elderly cannot go down to the toilets. They walk on the stairs with difficulty. When they go to the toilet, they find them dirty. We don't know what to do. I swear to God. We feel sorry for the children and the elderly. 
 
There is no bread. There is no gas. There is no food, simple food. We can't even sort it out for the children. This child is suffering with burns. She received the burns while we were escaping. 
 
FARAH YASSER NAEEM, LIVES AT DEIR AL-BALAH REFUGEE CAMP (through translator): We were not safe. We are not living like normal people. We would like to go back to our homes. The Zionist occupation destroyed our life, destroyed our beautiful way of living. We have the right to play. We have the right to freedom. The simplest thing a child needs, we have been deprived of. 
 
SAJA IHAB ABU-KHEIR, LIVES AT DEIR AL-BALAH REFUGEE CAMP: Here, we queue up to get a small barrel of water for 60 or 70 people. This barrel would only last for one day, and it's impossible for it to last a second day. 
 
We stand in the sun. The children stand from 1 to 4 p.m. in order to get this little bit of water that we get. Sometimes we push each other, saying we need water, we need water. It takes long to get the water in the sweltering heat. No toilets, no water. 
 
Sheltering here is difficult. Life is difficult. There is no gas. We are effectively dead here, just existing, not living. 
 
AYA SAMY NAEEM, LIVES AT DEIR AL-BALAH REFUGEE CAMP (through translator): We have lost our right to education and lost our right to play. Life here is not good. Water is scarce. Bread is scarce. Everything is scarce. Life here is no good, and I wish we'd go back to Beth al-Noum (ph). There is no water and no electricity. We could hardly get water. Electricity doesn't come a lot, once a day. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Joining me now to discuss all of this is James Elder. He is a spokesperson for UNICEF. And I thank you for being with us as we try to get an update on the situation. 
 
And I want to ask you, it's been an incredibly tough few days, especially as we stay for children. A lot of airstrikes, they were under communications blackout. What more are you learning about the situation? 
 
JAMES ELDER, SPOKESPERSON FOR UNICEF: Well, exactly that, Paula. That for now, just on three weeks, you've had children, a million children. Let's be very clear on just the enormity of number of boys and girls -- you've seen a few there, more than 1 million children living in hell. 
 
But what we're seeing with the ferocity, the relentlessness of these attacks, of the bombardments. Then when you hear the reports coming out from the Ministry of Health in Gaza whilst you have a million children living -- living in hell, you have many thousands who are dying there. 
 
So it is impossible now to overstate the gravity of what they're -- what they are enduring. You have no water, no medicines, no cease- fire. Paula, we're hurtling towards these sort of unimaginable horrors. 
 <br>[00:10:06]
 
The difficult thing is that there is a way out. This is very, very clear. We've been saying this from the very start. It's -- it's actually not as complex as the rest the world they see. It is a cease- fire, and it is to open those gates and get a massive amount of aid to boys and girls. 
 
Otherwise, we are getting reports of literally hundreds, hundreds of boys and girls being killed or injured every day. 
 
NEWTON: And when we talk about what the holdup may be, I have mentioned, we had President Biden. Macron is now weighing in, as well, many different world leaders saying we need to have more aid. 
 
What is the holdup? And is UNICEF involved in trying to unravel what has happened there at that crossing? 
 
ELDER: Yes, it's a great question. I mean, this comes down to politics. UNICEF uses -- we use every access point, every avenue, every leader, whether it's the most local partners on the ground in Gaza, the bravest people who are trying to keep their families safe, and get some of the tiny fragments of aid that still exists to people. 
 
Or as you say, the offices of world leaders. UNICEF will use every avenue we possibly can. But we see a trickle. We are seeing a couple of dozen trucks getting in. 
 
Now, UNICEF's got 14 trucks in. That's water. That's medicines that will save children. We know that, if we get another 200 trucks in, we would make a game-changing difference for those children, even allowing for bombardments that just seem -- we've seen no sense of abating. So it's the same message from the secretary-general, from my executive
 
 director of UNICEF. We need a massive increase of aid. It's just so basic, you know. You have almost now about 5 percent of the water system functioning. 
 
So whilst we see these graphic images -- graphic, Paula -- boys and girls, you know, who have been pulled from rubble. Mothers in immense amounts of grief who will wake up in grief every day, because they will wake up without their little boy or girl.
 
Water now becomes a real threat to children, as well. I have a colleague in Gaza. We still have many brave colleagues. And she spoke about just her 4-year-old saying, Mommy, I just want normal water, normal being not dirty water, unsafe that she's getting. 
 
Her other child, her 7-year-old, spoke about the trauma that she's gotten and that she's now -- you know, she talks to her daughter scratching herself to the point of her thighs bleeding. 
 
And when you talk to a colleague about what can you do about this level of trauma that is facing every child in Gaza, she simply said, All I focus on every day is keeping these two alive. If I can keep them alive and I tell myself every day, then I'll look at the trauma. 
 
That is not a normal scenario. That is not an acceptable scenario for any parent, Paula, of course, as we all know. And it's also an avoidable scenario. And I think this is what's so heartbreaking right now. 
 
NEWTON: In terms of it being an avoidable scenario, though, I  mean Israel continues to tell people, even in hospitals, people that are sheltering there with families, that they must evacuate to the South of the Gaza Strip. 
 
How worried are you in the coming hours or days that the people who need to heed that call, perhaps, who are endangered, just won't be able to? 
 
ELDER: Well, exactly. I mean, terrified, horrified, as everyone is every moment of these last three -- three weeks. Whether -- whether it is the -- you know, I think 20-something Israeli children who are somewhere in Gaza who need to be out there immediately, who need to be released back to their families, or as you say, in hospitals. 
 
This is nonsensical to think that someone in ICU, already when you've got far, far more people in desperate need of medical help and beds, or a baby in an incubator, and we're running out of fuel and all the medicines, can be moved somewhere. That is simply not the case. 
 
Our colleagues from WHO, the World Health Organization, said it weeks ago, that's a death sentence. So these -- these warnings are simply not -- not realistic. 
 
And again, as we discuss that, what that means is that, if you are a mom and you saw shrapnel, remembering Paula, you've seen what shrapnel does to a child. It's designed to rip through cement and buildings. It is devastating to a child's body. 
 
If your child survived that and now you're just praying that they will survive the coming days and you are told they must evacuate, and the doctor says, Well, you know, I now must choose which one of these children in ICU lives or dies, this is -- this is unacceptable by any reading of international humanitarian law. 
 
And this is why UNICEF will keep using every avenue we can, whether it's the good -- the good offices of the highest leaders in the land, whether it's broadcasters like yourself, to ask those most basic things, a massive increase in aid to children and a cease-fire. 
 
NEWTON: James Elder, we will have to leave it there for now as we continue to hope that more humanitarian aid does reach Gaza, especially for those children. Thank you. 
 <br>[00:15:07]
 
Now, diplomatic sources tell CNN the U.N. Security Council will hold an emergency meeting on Monday regarding Israel's ground incursion into Gaza. The United Arab Emirates is expected to seek a binding resolution from other Security Council members for immediate humanitarian pause in the fighting. 
 
The UAE is the only Arab country that's currently a member of the Security Council. Now to date, the U.S. has vetoed a resolution at the Security Council calling for a cease-fire and voted against a similar resolution introduced by Jordan at the General Assembly on Friday. 
 
Still ahead for us, the Israeli military says it struck more Hezbollah targets in Lebanon. Why the skirmishes are sparking fears of a wider regional conflict. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NEWTON: Israeli forces say they struck military facilities inside Syria just a few hours ago. The exact target is not clear, but the IDF says it came in response to launches toward Israel from inside Syria. 
 
Israel also says its fighter jet struck Hezbollah military infrastructure in Southern Lebanon on Sunday, and that was in response to shelling toward Northern Israel. And it comes as the war in Gaza has raised concerns over a wider conflict in the region. 
 
Here's CNN's Ben Wedeman in Lebanon with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The border between Lebanon and Israel remains tense as Hezbollah fired missiles into Israel, and Israel responded with air and artillery strikes. 
 
Since the eighth of October, the day after Hamas's surprise attack, Hezbollah's fired into Israel on a daily basis, with other groups, including Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad, also launching salvos of rockets and trying to infiltrate across the border.
 
And Israel has hit back, targeting, among other things, it says, Hezbollah infrastructure. 
 
Hezbollah concedes that almost 50 of its fighters have been killed in these skirmishes. Several Lebanese civilians have also been killed. 
 
According to the International Organization for Migration, around 29,000 civilians have fled communities along the border to safer ground further North. 
 
They continued skirmishes on the border are feeding fears that the conflict in Gaza could soon spark a broader regional conflict. Friday, the U.S. embassy advised all U.S. citizens to leave Lebanon now while commercial flights are still available. 
 
The U.S., just the latest country to urge their nationals to leave while they still can. A hint of where Hezbollah sees this conflict going may come this Friday when the group's charismatic but reclusive leader, Hassan Nasrallah, silent until now, is scheduled to make a speech.
 
I'm Ben Wedeman, CNN, reporting from Beirut. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Coming up for us, an International Criminal Court prosecutor tells CNN that Israel needs to let humanitarian aid into Gaza. We'll hear from him, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:25:09]
 
NEWTON: The International Criminal Court says Israel needs to exercise caution during airstrikes to avoid civilian casualties as much as possible. 
 
CNN's Melissa Bell spoke to the ICC prosecutor, Karim Khan. Here's part of that conversation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARIM KHAN, ICC PROSECUTOR: There should be no doubt that every decision-maker from the head of government, to military advisers, to lawyers that are making targeting decisions should be on clear notice that they will be required to justify every strike against every civilian objects, whether to dwelling house, a school or hospital or a church or a mosque, because they're protected unless they become military objectives. And that requires analysis and information. 
 
And this is going to be complex. The rules of war are complex. But one has to see, you know, what it's being used for and it lost a particular object, lost its protection. 
 
And then one has to look at proportionality. You know, has the principal distinction been observed in the first instance? And then secondly, is it proportionate to the military advantage that has been sought to be obtained? 
 
And one has to have a very forensic approach to this, and I think that's what we have an ICC. 
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Can you give us an idea of some of the possible war crimes that you've seen committed over the past three weeks? 
 
KHAN: I can't really comment on that. But what I can say clearly is the willful killing and hostage taking our great reaches of the Geneva Conventions. It's a crime to target, willfully, civilian objects or civilians. 
 
It's a requirement under the Geneva Conventions to allow humanitarian assistance to civilians. It can be a crime. It is a crime under the world (ph) statue to deny that. 
 
And I think that's, again, a matter that needs urgent consideration by Israel, to make sure that food and medicine go to children and women and men. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Fernando Travesi is the executive director for the International Center for Transitional Justice. And he joins me now from New York. And good to have your insights here. 
 
As we just heard from the ICC prosecutor, you in fact, write that the Hamas attack was, your words, brutal and indiscriminate, but you also say, quote, that Israel's response has so far been no less horrific. How and why do you see an equivalence there? 
 
FERNANDO TRAVESI, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR TRANSITIONAL JUSTICE: Thank you. Thank you very much for having me. 
 
I think these attacks have to be understood independently, but also related to the conflict. And each party to the conflict, needs to have, as we just heard from the ICC prosecutor, an analysis of information when they are conducting the hostilities. 
 
In the case of Hamas, I think it's clear that we've seen all the images of the war crimes and crimes against humanity they've committed. 
 
On the response of Israel, I think that attacks on civilian infrastructure and population, it's hard to understand that as proportionate, and that the principle of distinction has been in compliance of the principle of distinction. 
 
So I think that's why it amounts or it could amount to an international war crime in this context. 
 
NEWTON: Yes, understood, and you've answered my next question. I was going to ask you if you already have observed what you believe would be able to be proven war crimes in an international court. 
 
TRAVESI: Well, clearly, the determination of an international crime relies on a court, on a national or an international court. 
 
Judging by what we are watching on the screens, what we're seeing, the witnesses that are sending information, footage, testimonies, and also judging by the statements of the parties to the conflict, it's very, very -- it's likely to be a conversation that continues in International Criminal Court. 
 
I am not a judge, and this is not a court. But I think many, many of the contacts that we are witnessing these days raise the prospects of commissions of war crimes. 
 
NEWTON: Now, we just heard, in fact, from Karim Khan, and he's put either side of this conflict on notice, right? He said that every act of war will have to be justified, in his words, be required to justify every strike against every civilian and every civilian infrastructure. 
 
What I want to know from you is how can that warning actually be effective? Because he's there in Egypt, and he's hoping that it has some kind of a deterrent effect. 
 
TRAVESI: Yes, I think both parties to the conflict in this case, they are both responsible to abide by IHM. And I think now, with all the digital infrastructure that we have in the world, there are a lot of ways to collect documentation. 
 
There is satellite images. There are open source information. There are many news statements. And as I said before, witnesses and the statement of victims.
 <br>[00:30:09] 
 
So I think the moment will come that all parties to the conflict will be held accountable for the conduct of hostilities that needs to be abided by the principles of international humanitarian law. 
 
As we heard before, humanitarian necessity principal of distinction, the principal of proportionality, and of course, the principle of humanity, which is putting humanity of the civilian population at the core of conducting hostilities. 
 
NEWTON: Yes, it has been depressing how little humanity we have seen in any of the images thus far. You argue that what we are witnessing today, though, sits atop, in your words, again, a mountain of impunity for past crimes. 
 
And yet, impunity's the issue here. Arguably, state and non-state actors in many cases all over the world, they do have a unity. They still have not been prosecuted to -- to this moment. 
 
So I'm asking you, again, if we want more humanity to be exercised here, how do we go about getting that in real time? 
 
TRAVESI: Yes, at the moment of the conduction of hostilities, it's difficult to have a conversation about accountability or -- and it's more about putting pressure on the parties to the conflict on the expectation that they will hold accountable for their conducts. 
 
Accountability has come at national or international level for war crimes. It's a long path. It's not easy. It requires a lot of political support and social demand and collective effort. 
 
But we've seen that in different countries. It can come at the national level, international level, or using international heuristics. 
 
And what is important here is that the violations are being committed. The impact on civilian populations, including children, as we are saying, is indescribable. And those crimes need to be politically censored, morally and ethically censored.
 
And of course, justice needs to be watching and looking at those who are thinking now to be held accountable tomorrow. It will happen with a lot of effort and political will, and that's what many organizations from the civil society in many countries work, full -- is our full- time job, just trying to hold the perpetrators accountable and bring justice to the victims from both sides. 
 
NEWTON: Yes, it is just the beginning of, as the ICC prosecutors said, a forensic investigation, but a beginning nonetheless. Fernando Travesi, thanks so much for joining us. Appreciate it. 
 
TRAVESI: Thank you for having me. 
 
Still ahead for us, chaos ensues in an airport in a Russian republic when a flight arriving from Tel Aviv is swarmed by angry protesters. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:35:52]
 
NEWTON: Now to some disturbing images of how the conflict between Israel and Hamas is having a ripple effect in other regions. 
 
This was the chaotic scene at an airport in the Russian republic of Dagestan. Videos show a large crowd storming the airport, making it onto the tarmac, some of them waving Palestinian flags after a plane arrived from Tel Aviv. 
 
Images verified by CNN show people within the crowd holding anti- Semitic signs. 
 
The Dagestan health ministry says at least ten people were injured, two critically. Authorities have closed the airport until Tuesday and are investigating how to ensure it is safe going forward. 
 
Israel said it was working with Russian authorities to secure the well-being of Jews and Israelis at the site, and the U.S. is calling on Russia to protect Israelis and Jews after that incident. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden spoke with the Israeli and Egyptian leaders Sunday. The White House says he stressed the need for more humanitarian aid to get into Gaza. 
 
CNN's Kevin Liptak now with our update. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN WHITE HOUSSE CORRESPONDENT: President Biden spoke for the first time today with the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu since Israel expanded its assault on Gaza. 
 
In that phone conversation, the president reiterated that Israel had a right to defend itself, but he also underscored the need to do so in a manner consistent with international humanitarian law that prioritizes the protection of civilians. 
 
And that was from the White House summary of the call. 
 
Of course, this is all illustrative of the fine line that President Biden is walking as he confronts this growing crisis in the Middle East. 
 
On the one hand, he is a staunch defender of Israel and, certainly, a defender of its right to protect itself. But he is also calling for protection of civilians and calling on Israel to adhere to international humanitarian law and avoid targeting civilians. 
 
And certainly, as the images out of Gaza come to light, there will be pressure on President Biden, certainly from the progressive left in the United States, but also from American Arab partners to do more and to say more to ease the humanitarian suffering. 
 
And in that phone call with Netanyahu, President Biden did say that there was a need to immediately and significantly increase the flow of humanitarian assistance. 
 
Now, we did learn more from the U.S. national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, about those negotiations to free hostages who are being held in Gaza, among them, potentially Americans. 
 
He said that the expanded Israeli effort in Gaza had not stopped those negotiations, but that so far, Hamas had not been forthcoming in releasing the hostages. 
 
And he also addressed his efforts to get Americans who are stuck in Gaza, hundreds of them, out across the border into Egypt. He did say that the Egyptians are willing to accept foreign nationals and that the Israelis are also not putting up resistance to that effort, but that so far Hamas is making its own demands and putting up resistance to opening that border. 
 
So President Biden certainly remains focused on the situation in the Middle East. We also learned that he did speak to the Egyptian president. 
 
With him, he discussed the humanitarian aid efforts, and he also discuss the expanded Gaza offensive. But interestingly, the two men also discussed the importance of
 
 ensuring that Palestinians in Gaza are not displaced to Egypt or any other nation. 
 
And so while the Egyptians appear receptive to having foreign nationals cross the border into Egypt, it does not appear as if they are receptive to having Palestinians cross that border. 
 
Kevin Liptak, CNN, Wilmington, Delaware. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: OK, more to come here on CNN, including a live report from Hong Kong, where an American politician was forced to appear in court after bringing a gun into the city's airport. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:43:46]
 
NEWTON: A politician has been acquitted on a gun charge by a Hong Kong court. Now, Washington State Senator Jeff Wilson was charged with possession of a firearm without a license. That was after flying into Hong Kong International Airport just over a week ago. 
 
CNN's Kristie Lu Stout is in Hong Kong, and she joins us now live. 
 
Kristie, can you explain what happened here, especially now that it seems he has been acquitted? 
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR/CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, Paula. 
 
A Hong Kong court today has dropped a firearms charge against an American politician one week after he was arrested for carrying a gun into the city in his carry-on bag. 
 
Washington State Senator Jeff Wilson appeared at the West Kowloon magistrate's court today. He wore a black suit. He appeared very tense in court. And that after deliberation and his charge was dismissed, and a 24-month bind-over order was given, and conditions for that order include abstaining from possessing firearms and ammunition for two years. And Wilson's gun was also confiscated. 
 
Now, it was on October the 21st when Wilson was arrested at the Hong Kong International Airport after he arrived on a flight from San Francisco. He was charged with possession of arms without a license. 
 
It's an offense punishable by up to 14 years in prison here, with a fine of more than 12,000 U.S. dollars. 
 <br>[00:45:03]
 
Wilson was granted bail shortly after he was arrested, and he said that he didn't realize that his gun was in his briefcase while he and his wife were traveling for what was supposed to be a five-week vacation in Asia. 
 
And he only discovered the weapon, which was an unloaded gun, midflight. 
 
Now, in a statement that was just released from his office today -- we have it for you; let's bring it up -- this is what Wilson said. He said, quote, "This was a mistake on my part, and I regret it. I packed quickly and failed to check the contents of my briefcase. Over the Pacific, I reached into my briefcase for gum and felt my gun instead. My heart sank. I understood immediately what had happened," unquote. 
 
Now, Wilson said as soon as the plane landed in Hong Kong, he immediately alerted customs officials. 
 
Now, Hong Kong has very strict gun-control laws. No one is allowed to possess any arms or ammunition unless they have a police license. And licenses are only given to police officers or security guards and shooting range operators. 
 
Today in court, the magistrate said that the senator, quote, "should have known" that Chinese and Hong Kong laws are very strict, since Wilson is a trade delegate. He's traveled very frequently to the region.
 
Wilson says that he is happy to see the matter resolved, and he is looking forward to resuming his vacation with his wife. 
 
Back to you, Paula. 
 
NEWTON: Yes, this really could have turned out much differently. Kristie, thanks so much for updating us. Appreciate it. 
 
Now turning now to the devastated community of Lewiston in the state of Maine. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Bryan MacFarlane. 
 
(BELL RINGING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Keith Macneir. 
 
(BELL RINGING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Mourners held a solemn prayer vigil there Sunday evening to honor the 18 people killed in Sunday's mass shooting. 
 
Now, the tragedy marks the deadliest mass shooting in the United States so far this year. 
 
The White House says an official from its gun violence prevention office is heading to the state to try and support the grieving communities. Meantime, troubling new details shared with CNN reveal authorities
 
 were warned about the gunman weeks before the rampage. Police tried to conduct a welfare check on Robert Card after concerns he would, quote, "snap and commit a mass shooting." 
 
The shooter had a history of mental health issues and violence; and his family and the Marine National Guard had shared disturbing details with law enforcement. 
 
Hunger and anger are increasing in the storm-ravaged resort city of Acapulco, Mexico, five days after Hurricane Otis tore through. Hundreds of people lined up for food in front of a Mexican army truck on Sunday. 
 
Residents say looters stole most of the food from stores, and now they are coming to people's homes. And the military is doing everything they can to try and stop them. 
 
Even so, CNN's Gustavo Valdez is in Acapulco, and he tells us conditions are getting a bit better. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GUSTAVO VALDEZ, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Things are slowly improving in Acapulco. As you can see, the traffic is moving along in some sections of the city.
 
There is better cell-phone reception. There is some fuel in some gas station. And the government says that they are bringing more aid. 
 
However, the residents we've spoken to keep complaining that the aid is not getting to the people that need it most. 
 
VALDEZ (voice-over): This woman says she walked over two miles, five kilometers, from a neighborhood up on that mountain. She's not only looking for food or drinks but also medical assistance for her children. 
 
She's also upset that the National Guard is protecting commercial buildings. 
 
During the first days after Otis passed over Acapulco, there was widespread looting. But now, some say the targets are residences. 
 
This woman asked for the armed forces to go out into the residential areas, because she says the looters now are targeting homes, looking for fuel and other items. 
 
She says they've had to barricade themselves at home, armed with machetes, in case someone tries to break in. 
 
On social media, the federal government claims it is already delivering food and water. But that information is not getting through to everyone. 
 
The strength of the hurricane is clear all over the city, not only on the damaged buildings, but also on its iconic beaches, where the erosion has already changed this beautiful place. 
 
VALDEZ: The Mexican government is now offering free flights between Acapulco and Mexico City for tourists still stranded in this city. 
 
Gustavo Valdez, CNN, Acapulco. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: Tributes are pouring in for Matthew Perry, the actor best known for his role as Chandler Bing in the smash hit sitcom "Friends." 
 
Fans in New York set up a makeshift memorial outside the apartment made famous by the show. 
 
"Saturday Night Live" honored Perry, who hosted that program 26 years ago during the height of "Friends." 
 <br>[00:50:07]
 
Singer Adele even paused her show in Las Vegas to share a few words. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ADELE, SINGER: Some of my favorite memories from when I was younger, with my friends. And one of my friends, Andrew, when I was, like, 12, did the best Chandler impression. And he would do it all the time to make us laugh. If any of us were having a bad day or you know, he would pretend to be Chandler. 
 
And I remember that character for the rest of my life. And all of them, when I lived in New York for the first time. And the character from "Friends." (UNINTELLIGIBLE) And he was so open with his struggles with addiction and sobriety. It was something incredibly, incredibly brave. And then, yes -- how much I love what he did for us, especially what he did for me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Now the co-creators of "Friends" are remembering Perry, saying in a joint statement, "We are shocked and deeply, deeply saddened by our beloved friend Matthew's passing. It still seems impossible. All we can say is that we feel blessed to have had him as part of our lives." 
 
Perry was found dead in his Los Angeles home on Saturday, and that's according to "The Los Angeles Times," which cited law enforcement sources. 
 
Authorities say there were no signs of foul play, and an investigation into the cause of death is underway. Matthew Perry was 54 years old. 
 
Rebecca Sun is a senior editor at "The Hollywood Reporter," and she joins me now from Las Vegas. What a nice tribute from Adele, and she really voiced what so many people, strangers really, loved about both his character on "Friends" and the man himself. 
 
What have you learned about the reaction in the last 24 hours? Because it's just been stunning. 
 
REBECCA SUN, SENIOR EDITOR, "THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER": I think that the reaction was, as Matthew Perry said last year actually, during his book tour, that people might be shocked but not surprised by news of his death, which is really quite sad. 
 
I think that he was so public and open about his struggles with addiction that, as soon as the news broke, you know, I think anybody who was somewhat familiar with him, even his fans, you kind of had a sinking feeling about what perhaps might have been the cause. 
 
But you know, he was so beloved. I think that Chandler, certainly for me as well as fans around the world, is truly like Adele said, one of the great characters in television history. 
 
NEWTON: Absolutely, and so many generations can relate to that. And so many people all over the world, "Friends" was dubbed into so many different languages. 
 
I want to show you now -- you know, we've got a lot of reaction but one of them also from Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who tweeted -- or I should say said on X -- "Matthew Perry's passing is shocking and saddening. I'll never forget the school yard games we used to play. And I know people around the world are never going to forget the joy he brought them. Thanks for all the laughs, Matthew." 
 
I mean, this is the kind of outpouring that we've had. And many people may not have known, he had a fairly, really, normal upbringing in Canada before he returned to the United States for his acting career. 
 
What some people are wondering about though, I have to ask you, is we haven't heard from his -- the fellow cast members yet. Why not? 
 
SUN: I think that -- I imagine that, as the people who were among the closest to him, certainly professionally, they probably need to take some time, you know, for themselves to process this. 
 
You know, I know that their reaction is what those of us who kind of only know them as the group of "Friends," you know, they're the ones who are waiting for the most. 
 
But they need to emotionally process this themselves. They had an intense, unique, one-of-a-kind experience that only the six of them shared for an entire decade. They might, you know -- want to be talking to one another and seeing if they want to make some sort of group statement. 
 
But I think that's what it is. I think that it speaks to the magnitude of this type of loss to them that, you know, they're not doing some sort of quick -- quick reaction on Instagram, not just yet. 
 
NEWTON: Yes. As you said, the magnitude of the loss that everyone is still dealing with. If we deal with his acting career, though, I mean, it has been said that, you know, as shocking perhaps the details of his personal life was, his performance was comforting in his consistency and is comedic timing on "Friends." You always waited for that line from Chandler Bing to see what he would come up with. 
 
SUN: Exactly. I mean, I think that the show creators, you know, have said before that, initially, he was -- his character was the hardest to cast. They thought, is Chandler just really badly written? You know, why is this guy so hard to cast? 
 
And as soon as Matthew Perry walked in for his audition, and Matthew said that he had sort of -- he was the one who created that unique Chandler cadence: Could I be any more funny? You know, that iconic -- everybody around the world knows that. 
 <br>[00:55:05]
 
And that was what he brought to the character. And it was, as a result, that combination of screenwriting dialogue and performance, you know, created the magic of Chandler. And -- and yes, it's -- that's a legacy that will always live on. 
 
NEWTON: Yes, and in terms of what we have to say, it is sad. He wrote it himself in his memoir. But do you believe in so doing, though, that he definitely -- he kind of gave resolution to everything that happened throughout his career, right? Because he got to write about it himself in that memoir that came out about a year ago. 
 
SUN: Yes, I mean, I think that it's -- it's eerie, because it was almost exactly a year ago that the memoir came out. And the memoir -- you know, I think maybe people were sort of expecting a typical celebrity memoir, most of it being showbiz stories. 
 
But really, a lot of it, it's about his lifelong battle with addiction. And -- and he says somewhere, and it's a quote that's going viral on social media today, that he knows that his legacy, it's going to be "Friends." It's going to be, you know, the first, second, and third paragraph of his obituary. 
 
But what he hoped his legacy would be would be to give hope to anybody who's struggling with addiction and substance abuse through sort of opening up his life. And so I am glad that he had the ability to really complete that book and to get out there and tell that story. Because I think that's what he wants to -- he wanted to be remembered for. 
 
NEWTON: It was -- it was certainly an act of courage from someone who we remember, really, for their comedy. And as you said, will be an indelible moment for all of us when we remember how he reached out to people and said, I want to help people. I want them to know they are not alone. 
 
Rebecca Sun, we have to leave it there. Thanks so much. Appreciate it. 
 
SUN: Thank you. NEWTON: I'm Paula Newton. I want to thank all of you for watching. My
 
 colleague, Nick Watt, continues our coverage after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)