Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: VT Governor Urges Residents To "Stay Vigilant" Amid Flooding; Longtime Northwestern Football Coach Fired After Hazing Probe; Tuberville Expands On His Comments About White Nationalists. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired July 11, 2023 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: This morning, dangerous and widespread flooding continues across parts of northern New England, especially in Vermont, which reported its rainiest day on record yesterday. Vermont's capital Montpelier has shut down areas in downtown due to entire neighborhoods being underwater. And the governor, Phil Scott, is urging residents there to stay vigilant as rivers remain elevated. An emergency crew work to rescue people trapped in their homes is also happening. 
 
CNN's Miguel Marquez is in Montpelier, Vermont. Miguel, you have been standing in several different spots showing us just how torrential this rain has been and what it's done to the rivers there. 
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, two pieces of good news right now. The sun is out first time in a long time we've seen that, and the water is finally starting to recede on the Winooski River here in the -- in the downtown area. 
 
This is right at the confluence of the North Branch of the river. And this end is a -- is a big reservoir just north of where we are that they were concerned that was going to overtop. There's been a couple of reservoirs in the state that have already overtop. The top of them and pouring more water in two systems like this. 
 
But right now, the water here is starting to recede. The water was hitting the top of the bridge earlier and there was tons of debris that was starting to gather on the top of the bridge. That now seems to have stopped. 
 
And the bridge south of us -- or west of us. This is a walking bridge. It was hitting that bridge a short time ago and it is now below that. 
 
All that said, there are still concerns about how much water is being poured in the system. The problem for Vermont is that they've had -- they've had rainfall for weeks now and the sponge is just full. There's nowhere for the water to go except over the surface. And that's what you're seeing now. 
 
Over a hundred water rescues across the states. They are still very concerned about many roadways because they're either washed out, water on them, or debris on them still. And it is going to take a long time for the many people across this -- you know a lot of very rural parts of this state that have just been devastated. Sara. 
 
SIDNER: Great reporting, Miguel. You and your team there. It is just incredible to see the amount of water that is covering so much of that area. Miguel, thank you so much. Appreciate it. Kate? 
 <br>[11:35:01] 
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: All right. So, also, new this morning. The first federal hearing in the classified documents case against former President Donald Trump has now been pushed back. It will now be held next Tuesday. A brief delay if you will. 
 
And it is just one step in the broader fight really being waged by Donald Trump's legal team to get the trial date -- the start of the trial pushed back -- pushed back to not even begin until after the 2024 election. Joining us right now for more on this is CNN's Senior Legal Analyst, former federal prosecutor Elie Honig. 
 
So, Elie, let's talk about these requests for delay, not just this delay that from the first hearing but the broader argument that Donald Trump's legal team is making for -- it's that they should have this start of the trial not begin until after the 2024 election. What do you think of what they're asking? 
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: Well, so Donald Trump makes a political argument and a practical argument. The political argument essentially is it will be too prejudicial. It'll be too politically charged to have a jury trial, a criminal trial of one person who's running for office done by the Justice Department of the other person. They argue, why would we take that risk? Why wouldn't we just do it after the election? 
 
To me, the more compelling argument though, is the practical argument. They say DOJ took a year, and change to investigate this. Now, you want us to go to trial in five months, we have to go through 400,000 documents. We've been given 120,000 e-mails, nine months of surveillance video, and we don't even have it all yet. Trump's team is saying. 
 
And I think compellingly, they cite two other recent classified documents, one of them took a year and a half to go to trial. The other took three years to go to trial. So, they're just making a straight-up logistical argument, we can't realistically be ready that quick. 
 
BOLDUAN: What do you think the counter is then from the special counsel's team on this? I -- we -- I was speaking to a former U.S. -- Assistant U.S. Attorney from the Southern District of Florida last hour. And he said these kinds of -- this kind of a case could be straightforward enough that they could move forward fast. 
 
HONIG: Yes, I think the DOJ is posturing this case has been what it always is what I was trying to do, which is we are ready for trial. We want it as soon as possible. 
 
But the thing to keep in mind. The speedy trial right is not the prosecutor's right. You want a trial to be as speedy in the normal sense of the word as possible. 
 
But the right -- the constitutional right belongs to the defendant. And so, the judge has to sort of balance those two things. Any judge wants to get a case tried as quickly as possible, but a judge also has to allow a defendant ample time to prepare. 
 
BOLDUAN: So, you have Donald Trump and you have also Walt Nauta. 
 
HONIG: Right. 
 
BOLDUAN: Do you think they will be tried together, or separately? What -- do you think there is a preference one way or another for either interest here? 
 
HONIG: So, fascinating strategic decisions here. This will also be up to the judge. Prosecutors usually want to try everyone together --  
 
BOLDUAN: Right. 
 
HONIG: -- because you want to show the jury everything at once. Although in this case, if your focus is let's just get Trump tried before the election, you might actually say, OK, let's split Nauta off. We'll do him later because it'll be more efficient to just prepare for Trump, right? 
 
BOLDUAN: (INAUDIBLE) Yes. 
 
HONIG: On the other side, defendants often want to be tried separately, especially the lesser guy. Here, Nauta, you don't want to sit at the table with the more culpable person. But if I'm Walt Nauta's lawyer, I'd say, look, there's a chance we catch a Trump supporter or two or four on this jury, and you won't Nauta may want to be the beneficiary of that. 
 
So, we'll see where the parties come in on that. They're all going to have to take positions do we want them tried together or apart? But that'll be a judge's candid call. 
 
BOLDUAN: I want it -- well, while I have you, I wanted to ask you about what we're watching play out -- the step that we're watching play out in Fulton County. They're working to select the grand -- the grand jury that will consider charges in a possible indictment of Donald Trump and others relating to the efforts to overturn the 2020 election results in Georgia. 
 
What do you expect to -- I mean, this is just the typical grand jury process that we're watching play out, but one of the cases that could come before them -- will likely come before them is of the former -- for about the former president and his allies. 
 
HONIG: Right. 
 
BOLDUAN: What -- how do you see this going? 
 
HONIG: Well, so people are confused. Wasn't there already a grand jury down there? First of all, these are two separate things. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. 
 
HONIG: The one that came back a few months ago was what we call a special purpose grand jury. They can only find facts and issue reports. 
 
BOLDUAN: They don't hand up indict. 
 
HONIG: Exactly. This grand jury now has the power to hand up indictments. To me, you don't have to be a soothsayer to see that Fani Willis has every intention of, indicting Donald Trump. She has all about broadcast that in her letters to the sheriff and to court personnel saying please clear the courthouse, be ready, something big is coming down in August. 
 
You don't exactly know what a grand jury is going to do. But 99 percent of the time, if a prosecutor asks for an indictment, you get an indictment. So, that's what I expect to happen but it's our process. You can't always predict it. 
 
BOLDUAN: We will see it together. 
 
HONIG: All right. Thanks, Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: Thank you so much, Elie. Sara? 
 
SIDNER: All right. Ahead. The head football coach at Northwestern University fired over hazing allegations. What we're learning about this coach controversy? That's coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:44:09] 
 
BOLDUAN: A shake-up is happening in college football. Northwestern University's football program in turmoil now after the head coach was fired over hazing allegations. 11 players past and present came forward to say hazing did occur in the football program. And the University's president says that head coach Pat Fitzgerald should have known and should have prevented it. 
 
CNN's Adrienne Broaddus has the very latest on this. She's joining us now. Adrienne, what more are you picking up? 
 
ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Kate, there are mixed opinions on this latest development. That is the firing of the former head coach, Pat Fitzgerald, as many people know he was beloved. 
 
We'll tell you more about what's happening on campus. But I want to bring our viewers up to speed here. So, on Friday, a whistleblower reached out to the student newspaper there. That's the Daily Northwestern. 
 <br>[11:45:02] 
 
That report detailed multiple incidents of alleged sexual hazing within the football program, including something that was described as running. According to this whistleblower who spoke out, that's when eight to 10 upperclassmen would haze other players. 
 
Now, David Gold has been covering this since the beginning. We spoke with him just moments ago, and we asked him what are some of the players saying. Listen to what he told me. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
DAVID GOLD, MANAGING EDITOR, INSIDENU: The Northwestern football team is bashing student media for saying you got our coach fired. We did not. The investigation corroborated what we found as reporters. 
 
11 players came forward and said this happened. So, how does this happen, is a question. And why does the school decide that this is a time to cover it up? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BROADDUS: Now, CNN has reached out to representatives -- representing coach Fitzgerald for comment. So far, we have not heard back. Previously, the coach did say he was not aware of the alleged hazing. Keep in mind. This is a coach who was with the university for at least 17 years, Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: All right, Adrienne, thank you very much for that. We have much more ahead. We'll be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[11:50:48] 
 
SIDNER: Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville is doubling down over his comments over white nationalism that he shared last night with our Kaitlan Collins. Tuberville kept repeating that it's just an opinion that white nationalists are indeed racist, although the definition says so. 
 
CNN's Lauren Fox is on Capitol Hill with the very latest. Lauren, what are you hearing now? 
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. I mean Tuberville just continues doubling down on his comments. Originally, he made these comments weeks ago, basically arguing that white nationalists weren't necessarily racist. 
 
And he was pressed repeatedly by our Kaitlan Collins yesterday. And then pressed repeatedly by reporters again today. Here's what he said. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Why do you continue to insist that white nationalists are American? 
 
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE (R-AL): Listen, I'm totally against racism. And if Democrats want to say that white nationalists are racist, I'm totally against that too. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But that's not a Democratic definition. The definition of a white nationalist is -- (INAUDIBLE) 
 
TUBERVILLE: Well, it's their definition. My definition is racism bad. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is the definition. 
 
TUBERVILLE: Next question. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The definition is --  
 
TUBERVILLE: Next question. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The definition --  
 
TUBERVILLE: Next question. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The definition is that --  
 
TUBERVILLE: Next question. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: -- the belief that the white race is superior to all of racism. 
 
TUBERVILLE: Racism is -- racism is totally out of question. Next question. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you believe that white nationalists are racist? 
 
TUBERVILLE: Yes. If that's what race is, yes. Thank you. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But that is the definition? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
FOX: And he just continues to double down. And the fallout on Capitol Hill from Republicans is now that many Republicans are being asked by reporters, are white nationalists racist? And I talked to several Republicans, including Rick Scott of Florida, who said absolutely. That is the definition of a white nationalist that they believe that the white race is superior to other races. 
 
You also heard from John Thune, who I spoke to just moments ago. He is the Republican whip, and he was pressed by reporters. Whether or not he was going to talk directly to Tuberville about his comments. He said he had no idea what Tuberville was actually trying to say. He said, just to be clear though, there is no room for white nationalists in the Republican Party. 
 
I pressed him on whether or not there was room for white nationalists in the military. He said no. Not there, either. Making it clear that he wants to put this to bed. He does not want this to become a broader question of whether or not Republicans are sticking with white nationalist, Sara. 
 
SIDNER: Yes, hard to put it to bed when you keep getting those same answers from Tuberville. Thank you so much, Lauren Fox, for that update. Appreciate it. Kate? 
 
BOLDUAN: I'm sorry, but I just do not get why he is --  
 
SIDNER: Doubling down. 
 
BOLDUAN: I don't even know I can say tying himself up in knots --  
 
SIDNER: Yes. 
 
BOLDUAN: -- to try to make a distinction without a difference here. I mean, I don't -- what a strange Hill to die on when they actually have extremely important thing. 
 
SIDNER: Absolutely. 
 
BOLDUAN: I say this. After covering Capitol Hill for too long knowing that they will -- there's a lot of stuff done on there, that's a big waste of time sometimes. But there are up against a deadline. There's a government shutdown that could be threatened. And this is what Tommy Tuberville is deciding to spend his time talking about. 
 
SIDNER: It. causes fear. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. 
 
SIDNER: Certainly in the black community, to tell you that. 
 
BOLDUAN: And understandably so. 
 
SIDNER: And others. 
 
BOLDUAN: All right, let's go to this. More fallout from the Bud Light boycott. Sales dropped by more than 28 percent over the last four weeks. It follows a backlash after the brand partnered with a transgender influencer. And now, Bud Light is getting more pushback this time from the LGBTQ community as well. 
 
Let's get to Ryan Young. You fought -- he's fallen all this. Ryan, this seems to be the controversy that just won't quit. What now? 
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. You know, we are talking a lot these days, it seems like about culture wars. I mean, just that last conversation, you and Sara were having --  
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. 
 
YOUNG: -- kind of dovetails all into this because everyone seems to be taking sides over everything. And it really got to the point where we went out to the streets to talk to people just to get their ideas about how much confusion and how much anger has been caused by this Bud Light controversy. Just listen to the people on the street who were sort of upset that this has gotten taken so far to handle. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's quite simple. People just don't want it shoved down their throats. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No Bud Light because it's like I have grandchildren. We don't need to put that in the young kids' heads. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We had one guy who said I refuse to drink that anymore. One guy. And everybody else in the bar kind of roll their eyes at him. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 <br>[11:55:02] 
 
YOUNG: Yes. America is really split on a lot of topics when it comes to voting, but this Bud Light really seems to send a chasm right down the middle in terms of talking to folks. We went to Nashville. We even talked to a bar in Chicago. 
 
One bar that was telling us basically they were -- they're not going to serve it because they don't like the way Dylan Mulvaney was treated after this whole controversy started. He courses the transgender person they were going to sponsor and go along with, with Bud Light. They didn't like how Bud Light didn't stand by him after all this. 
 
Of course, you have Kid Rock who said he would not serve Bud Light in his bar. He shot up a case of Bud Light. At this point, though, Kate, we went back to that bar A couple of days ago, Bud Light's being served again. But now, we're starting to see those sales have really dropped off by more than 28 percent. 
 
BOLDUAN: Ryan, it's really interesting and great that you got the temperature from the people you're talking to. It's one of the -- it's --  
 
SIDNER: The culture wars --  
 
BOLDUAN: It's something. 
 
SIDNER: It's the culture wars. 
 
BOLDUAN: A tough time. 
 
SIDNER: Yes, it is. 
 
BOLDUAN: It's a tough time. 
 
SIDNER: Ryan Young, that was a great story. Thank you so much. Thank you for joining us. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. "INSIDE POLITICS" with Danna Bash. Up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)