Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Death Toll Nears 20,000, Time Running Out To Find Survivors; Freezing Temperatures Complicating Rescue Efforts; Zelenskyy Asks E.U. For More Weapons, Says Europe Is "Home"; State Dept. Official: Balloon Had Sophisticated Spy Technology; China Rejects Call With U.S. Defense Secretary; Aid Arriving In Turkey As Erdogan Defends Govt. Response; Macron Awards Zelenskyy "Grand Cross Of The Legion Of Honor"; Songwriter, Composer Burt Bacharach Dead At 94. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired February 09, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:39]
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR: Turkish and Syrian rescue workers facing freezing temperatures still looking for signs of life. The death toll in 
 
 Monday's devastating earthquake now over 19,000.
 
Standing ovation today when the Ukrainian President spoke to E.U. leaders, but will they budge on his request for fighter jets?
 
And a new timeline reveals what U.S. intelligence officials knew before the Chinese spy balloon entered U.S. airspace. We'll go live to Washington for 
 
 the details.
 
Hello, I'm Lynda Kinkade at the CNN Center. Welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD. Well, desperation is growing and so is the death toll. Right now, we know 
 
 nearly 20,000 people have died since Monday's devastating earthquake in Turkey and Syria. The fury of survivors who couldn't rescue the loved ones 
 
 is growing.
 
Mountains of collapse concrete turning into tombs for the victims. And this all comes as the Turkish President headed back to the disaster zone today 
 
 after admitting to the shortcomings in his government's response.
 
And in neighboring Syria, the first U.N. aid convoys since the quake has finally made it across the border. Activists had feared the Damascus regime 
 
 could hamper aid to the most rebel -- to mostly rebel-held areas.
 
Well, across the disaster zone, fears are mounting for survivors. Aid agencies warn that new snowfall and a lack of power could cause what they 
 
 call a secondary disaster. At the same time, CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reports that with each passing day, rescue workers are pulling fewer survivors from 
 
 the debris. Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR (voice-over): It is hard to imagine how this rubble gave anyone hope. Yet for 50 or so hours 
 
 after the quake, it almost did. And when it stopped, when the chances of surviving ebbed, the bodies so near the epicenter here, kept coming.
 
The paralysis of grief, when these two parents see the 8-year-old daughter's red hair blood-stained. Another 4-year-old girl with no parents 
 
 here to bury her, and another father, simply walking behind.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translation): My son.
 
WALSH (on-camera): It's been constant intense activity desperately trying to save lives. But we are sadly now into the window, where so many of the 
 
 ambulances that arrive will likely be taking away people who have perished.
 
(voice-over): Up high, hope is strongest, digging furiously by hand here. On the other side of the rubble, medics rushed forward, growing fury but 
 
 how nothing here came sooner.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (translated): Why did you not look for the ones at the top first? Oh father -- 
 
WALSH (voice-over): The stretchers here too late, return empty. Another body pulled out of a Syrian refugee in his 40s, as the excavations gain 
 
 pace. An audience of agony watches, waits.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (translated): Heaven's garden is where they have gone.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (translated): My little lamb, her bed has flown the columns fell on it. She is only 7, how could she move it? She is in heaven.
 
WALSH (voice-over): A hospital volunteer told us over 300 bodies here are unclaimed and more. The numbers rising fast, along with tempers. It is 
 
 chaos. And whether any government could have moved faster was the question dogging Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, when he flew into town 
 
 briefly.
 
This stadium suddenly home to possibly thousands, but who knows how long. Many refugees from Syria now, perhaps losing their homes for the third 
 
 time. That's nearly as many years as some have been alive.
 <br>[10:05:11]
 
They have nothing but the state's generosity to rely on, which for now, means 12 people in this tent.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (translated): I don't know how long they'll let us stay here. We have no house to go to. Until there's a safe space -- 
 
 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (translated): We are just waiting for our government. Whatever they give, we will accept.
 
WALSH (voice-over): For now, the question is what they could have done to not arrive, for so many in tuned here, too late.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, Nick Paton Walsh reporting there.
 
I want to go live now to Turkey where CNN's Salma Abdelaziz is standing by for us in Istanbul. Salma, good to have you with us. We're covering, 
 
 obviously, Syria and Turkey. I want to start first with Syria, where the U.N. says 11 million people are impacted by this earthquake. And we have 
 
 these reports that aid is struggling to get in. The U.N., the first U.N. convoy finally making it in today.
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Lynda, but it's really a tiny trickle. I'm talking about a teardrop when it comes to the ocean of need. 
 
 That's in Syria. This was just a few vehicles carrying just a little bit of aid, absolutely nothing compared to the enormous crisis that's on the 
 
 ground. And it's come a bit too late here, Lynda, to be frank.
 
We're looking into the fourth day of this crisis, this aid should have shelter equipment in it essentially to try to give those who've been forced 
 
 out of their homes by this earthquake or lost their homes in this earthquake. A bit of cover in these freezing cold temperatures. We have 
 
 pictures we've seen on the ground from eyewitnesses of people just literally sleeping on the sidewalks in below zero-degree temperatures.
 
So yes, this might begin to help some of that population. But I just can't emphasize enough how vulnerable millions of Syrians are. Some 4 million of 
 
 them already depended on humanitarian aid before this earthquake hit. And shelter is just one of the many, many needs, the many, many things on the 
 
 wish list for Syrians.
 
They need medical air -- medical aid. Hospitals are running out, they're overwhelmed. They don't have the supplies they need to take care of many 
 
 hundreds, if not more, thousands wounded people in Syria who need that care. You have to remember, we're talking about different authorities on 
 
 the ground here. So I'm conflating it and making it all one area.
 
But really, we're talking about a rebel enclave. That's one area, that's one set of authorities that aid groups have to deal with. Then you have 
 
 other areas which are run, of course, by the Syrian government. They have other needs, a very complicated patchwork.
 
But if you look at the human impact of that, what it means is there are kids who are gone cold and hungry, and many million people who simply don't 
 
 know where they're going to sleep tonight, Lynda?
 
KINKADE: Yes, exactly. And of course, in Turkey, a region that is high risk for earthquakes, there is anger over the response, and also the lack of 
 
 preparedness, especially when you consider that an earthquake tax has been collected for years, a law has been in place that since 2004, buildings, 
 
 new buildings had to be built to code to be earthquake proof. Take us through what people are saying in the government's response.
 
ABDELAZIZ: So again, we're into this fourth day now. And that hope that there might still be survivors under the rubble here in Turkey is fading. 
 
 These rescue operations are quickly going to turn into recovery operations, unfortunately, in the sense of anger, grief, frustration at the government 
 
 here is growing. Not just in the earthquake zone, but really all across the country.
 
And there's a couple of reasons for that. I'm going to break them down for you. The first you touched on there, right? It's the earthquake response. 
 
 Could the government have gotten there quicker? Could they have met those needs faster? We know that this area is just massive area. We're talking 
 
 about 23 million people according to the wealth -- World Health Organization across Turkey and Syria that were affected.
 
Of course, around many thousand wounded, thousands more injured, so just an enormous need on the ground. And the result of that was, of the Turkish 
 
 government not being able to reach these more remote areas is that we saw families who could hear their loved ones under the rubble, but could not 
 
 rescue them.
 
We saw families who had to sleep on the streets without food, without water, without any heating for several nights. That's when the anger sets 
 
 in. But maybe you could argue that no government could prepare for an earthquake this powerful, more powerful or just one of the strongest 
 
 rather, that this region has seen in a century.
 <br>[10:10:01]
 
But the other point might be the one that really chases President Erdogan the most. And it's the one that you brought up, building codes, building 
 
 standards. Why did so many apartment blocks collapse? Could lives have been saved? As you mentioned, there are rules here in Turkey about building 
 
 codes. There are certain requirements that should make them earthquake resistant.
 
And if you look at those images, some of those apartment blocks that are flattened, pancaked, they are modern buildings. So questions are being 
 
 raised, could lives have been saved? What went wrong here?
 
And it's not just the talks. I know you mentioned, that talks that everybody pays, it's just the expectation that this is a country that sits 
 
 on a fault line. It absolutely should be prepared for an earthquake. We saw the results of that, I think, when President Erdogan was touring the 
 
 disaster zone yesterday hearing the anger and frustration there on the ground.
 
And then one more sign of it was the blocking or the lack of access on Twitter for people who are trying to voice their frustration with the 
 
 government, perhaps a sign there, that President Erdogan is very aware that there is anger towards the government.
 
KINKADE: Salma Abdelaziz for us in Istanbul staying across all the developments. Thanks so much.
 
Well, CNN Meteorologist Chad Myers is here to update us on the difficult weather conditions. And Chad, we've been talking about the storms, the 
 
 wind, the bitterly cold temperatures, what can people expect in the coming hours?
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: The difference here is clear skies, Lynda. Clear skies are great in the afternoon because the sun warms the earth, 
 
 warming the ground, warming the air and then the people. But at night, those same clear skies allow all of the heat to escape into the upper 
 
 atmosphere. And so temperatures drop very, very rapidly. This is cold, dry air.
 
Temperatures right now are nice in the sunshine, five, seven, even up to even toward Elvaston (ph). We're still seeing temperatures around minus 
 
 one, but it feels better than that in the sun. Here's the problem. 14 degrees below tonight in Elvaston (ph). There is still snow on the ground 
 
 there. That's also allowing the heat to escape quicker than it would be without the cloud cover.
 
So this is an up and down, up and down type of situation where morning lows in Elvaston (ph) will be 14 degrees below zero. It's hard to survive, even 
 
 standing outside trying to stay warm. Think about that being under a building or not being able to get out of a building, 14 degrees below zero.
 
Now in the afternoon, we're back up above zero for the most part. But it's the clear skies, it's the calm winds that are really making this a problem. 
 
 And in the afternoon, those calm winds go away and you get wind chill factors 10 to 15 degrees below zero. Very chilly. All human skin, faces, 
 
 animals, people can all feel that windchill factor, and it's every single afternoon, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yes, really tough. Chad Meyers for us, appreciate the update. Thank you.
 
And as Ukraine braces for a Russian offensive, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is making the rounds in Europe seeking more weapons, 
 
 especially fighter jets. Mr. Zelenskyy there receiving a standing ovation at the European Parliament. He said Europe is Ukraine's home.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translation): This is our Europe, these are our rules, this is our way of life. And for Ukraine, it's 
 
 a way home.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
Now, I'm here in order to defend our people's way home.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Earlier, in Paris, French President Emmanuel Macron awarded Mr. Zelenskyy the prestigious Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor.
 
Well, CNN's Nic Robertson is following the developments and joins us now live from Brussels. Good to have you with us, Nic. So in recent weeks, 
 
 Zelenskyy was promised tanks, this trip along longer range missiles, but there's always more. He wants fighter jets. Where are those discussions at 
 
 after today's meeting?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: President Zelenskyy said that it had positive conversations that he wasn't able to discuss 
 
 those private conversations, the bilateral ones that he's been having with the French, the Germans, the British, this afternoon with the Italians and 
 
 whatever other meetings has had behind closed doors here, partly because a lot of what we've seen in the past is all about sequencing.
 <br>[10:15:09]
 
And we know that for tanks, there is -- there needs to be training and there needs to be coordination to bring in enough tanks and to have them 
 
 all work together across a number of different nations. And that's been part of the picture.
 
And at the weekend, I was speaking with Estonia's Defense Minister at a NATO military exercise in Estonia. But we talked about NATO fighter jets 
 
 for Ukraine. And one of the prerequisites, one of the things that goes on behind the scenes to do that is to make sure that Ukraine's air defense 
 
 capability is ready and able to cope with whatever Russia should put up if Ukraine starts using fast NATO type fighter jets, and that's not in 
 
 position at the moment.
 
So I think what President Zelenskyy is taking away from this trip is, yes, he's going to get some longer range rocket systems that he's desperate for, 
 
 and that the pathway to fighter jets is open. He's got an agreement from the U.K. to train fighter pilots. Actual jets, that's not on the table at 
 
 the moment. But the discussion that he wanted to have, has opened the door and it's underway.
 
KINKADE: And Nic, the Ukrainian President did make this impassioned play, as he described Ukraine -- Europe being Ukraine's home. We heard from the 
 
 European Union President as well, who says the E.U. is continuing to support Ukraine, to hold those guilty of crimes accountable, to ensure that 
 
 frozen Russian assets are used to rebuild Ukraine.
 
And we also heard from the E.U. Commission president who said, we are one family, and we will continue to support Ukraine. There is a great deal of 
 
 support coming from Europe right now.
 
ROBERTSON: There really is. There's this real sense that this is a make-or- break moment for Ukraine, that Russia is pressing down hard, that Russia is throwing enough troops into the front line, albeit sacrificing many of them 
 
 to take ground. And then there is a spring offensive coming. And this could have an impact on Ukraine that doesn't have the number of tanks that Russia 
 
 has, or the number of men that Russia can put into the front line with a high attrition rate there is.
 
So, for the leadership, there's that understanding, but there's also, I think, more broadly an emotional connection as well. And President 
 
 Zelenskyy thanked the European people for that, for looking after Ukrainian refugees, for coming out in support of Ukrainians.
 
And that was really part of his message, to really connect with the population of Europe to, you know, tell them that we have shared values, 
 
 explain to them why it is Ukraine wants to become a member of the European Union, which the European Council President Charles Michele said Ukraine 
 
 have been taking good and positive and strong steps in that direction, despite the fact that it's under war.
 
That the importance of making that connection that the Ukraine shares these European values is important for all the leaders that he met today, whether 
 
 it's a 705 European members of parliament or the leaders of the different governments. Because it is that popular support, that popular support 
 
 through the 446 million people that live within the European Union.
 
It's their support that's going to allow the politicians to continue to spend from their budget, and put in the defense and military aid, 
 
 humanitarian aid and all the other support that Zelenskyy knows he needs and he knows he's going to need it over the longer term. And that's part of 
 
 what he was doing here today.
 
KINKADE: And Zelenskyy is very skilled at knowing his audience and speaking to that audience as we have seen time and time again. Nic Robertson, good 
 
 to have you joining us from Brussels.
 
Well, still to come, the U.S. is learning more about that suspected Chinese spy balloon it shot down. We'll have new details and just how early U.S. 
 
 officials knew about it in a live report next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:21:30]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. Well, there is growing fallout in Washington over the suspected Chinese spy balloon that was shut down last weekend. U.S. 
 
 lawmakers are getting classified briefings about that incident. And we have new details this hour on the sophisticated technology the balloon had 
 
 onboard.
 
CNN White House Reporter Natasha Bertrand joins us now from Washington, D.C. Natasha, the Pentagon says China has conducted a spy balloon program 
 
 for years, yet despite the latest balloon being spotted over Alaska, it wasn't flagged as urgent. Just explain.
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes. So we are learning this morning actually that the Biden administration has determined that these 
 
 Chinese balloons are able to conduct surveillance and eavesdrop essentially on communications. And that is something that had not previously been 
 
 disclosed.
 
Of course, the U.S. was concerned about the potential capabilities of the Chinese balloon to spy on sensitive military sites. So but that is a new 
 
 detail that we are learning this morning. But we're also learning that just before this balloon actually entered U.S. airspace on January 28, the 
 
 Defense Intelligence Agency which is the intelligence arm of the Pentagon, did flag through classified channels that a foreign object was headed 
 
 towards United States airspace.
 
However, this was not deemed as particularly urgent because the U.S. has surveilled a balloons like this in the past, and did not view them as a 
 
 military threat. It was just not seen as something that would need to be dealt with urgently because it did not appear to pose a risk to people on 
 
 the ground or a potentially large national security risk.
 
So the thinking was that they would just wait and see what this balloon did. And they would potentially try to collect intelligence on the balloons 
 
 maneuvers and what it actually was capable of doing.
 
Well, now we are learning, of course, that the balloon actually did not take the expected path that officials believed it would. It made a sharp 
 
 downward turn towards the continental United States, and ultimately ended up over Montana. And that is when officials started getting very concerned 
 
 because this is not a pattern of behavior they had seen from these kinds of balloons before.
 
And now, of course, we are learning this morning that this particular balloon was able to eavesdrop on electronic communications within the 
 
 United States. But I should note, a senior administration official does tell us that the United States knew this at the time and took steps to 
 
 avoid any unencrypted communications happening in the vicinity of that balloon. Lynda?
 
KINKADE: It really is just an incredible story. We are continuing to hear, Natasha, from China who is pushing back against the U.S. describing the 
 
 balloon as this, a civilian weather detecting device. But the Pentagon says it has 100 percent certainty that China's surveillance balloon was not 
 
 being used for any civilian purpose. They are -- are they offering up any evidence at this point in time?
 
BERTRAND: They have not. And they have been asked of course. The press corps has been asking for evidence of this and the response that we keep 
 
 getting is that this is too sensitive at this point. But also, you know, they are continuing to investigate this balloons capabilities. Because the 
 
 FBI lab in Quantico, Virginia that is examining the remnants of the balloon that was shot down on Saturday is still continuing its work.
 
And so it's unclear when exactly the administration is going to have a full picture of the balloons capabilities. But for now, we are being told that 
 
 they will not be providing hard evidence of the balloon. However, they -- of the balloon's capabilities.
 <br>[10:25:06]
 
However, they have told us that the balloon featured certain elements that were not consistent with things they would see in a weather balloon, things 
 
 like, you know, solar panels and other electronic capabilities that you would expect to see in a surveillance balloon and not a civilian weather 
 
 balloon, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Yes. More to come on this story for sure. Natasha Bertrand in D.C., good to have you with us. Thank you.
 
Well, Beijing, as we were just discussing is pushing back China's defense ministry saying it rejected a call with the U.S. Defense Secretary over 
 
 what it says is an attack on an unmanned Chinese civilian airship. At the same time, the Chinese government is accusing the U.S. of carrying out 
 
 public opinion warfare over this incident.
 
Selina Wang has more from Beijing.
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Lynda, Beijing is hitting back at Washington statements about the suspected spy balloon. The Pentagon said on 
 
 Tuesday that China refused a conversation with U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin following the downing of the balloon.
 
Well, now China's defense ministry is saying they rejected that call because the conditions were not right, given the U.S. is, quote, 
 
 irresponsible and seriously wrong approach. Now we've seen rhetoric from Beijing significantly harden after the U.S. military shut down the balloon.
 
After Beijing initially expressed regret for what they claimed as a weather balloon flown off course, Beijing is now accusing the U.S. of overreacting 
 
 and violating international practice. The contrast between what Beijing and Washington are claiming is only getting starker. China still doubling down 
 
 on that claim that this was a civilian balloon that took an unplanned course that was out of their control.
 
Meanwhile, the Pentagon has said it is -- has 100 percent certainty that the downed Chinese balloon was not being used for civilian purposes. CNN 
 
 has also reported that U.S. intelligence officials believe the balloon is part of an extensive military run surveillance program that involves a 
 
 fleet of balloons spanning five continents.
 
China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that claim is, quote, likely part of the U.S.'s information and public opinion warfare and accused the U.S. 
 
 of being the world's largest surveillance reconnaissance country. The Pentagon has said maintaining open lines of communication with China are 
 
 particularly important in moments like this.
 
The question still remains as to whether this balloon incident will lead to long-term damage to the bilateral relationship that's already very tense 
 
 between the U.S. and China. Lynda?
 
KINKADE: Thanks to Selina Wang there in Beijing.
 
Well still ahead on CONNECT THE WORLD, a desperate search for survivors more than three days after the earthquake in Turkey and Syria. The 
 
 agonizing wait facing families whose loved ones are still missing.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:21]
 
KINKADE: Welcome back, I'm Lynda Kinkade at the CNN Center in Atlanta. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. Good to have you with us. Well, the 
 
 death toll from the earthquake that devastated parts of Turkey and Syria is now nearing 20,000 people.
 
The first United Nations aid convoy finally arrived in northwestern Syria more than three days after the quake hit. The United Nations says the need 
 
 for help is urgent. In Aleppo, 100,000 people are believed to be homeless, most of them are trying to stay warm in the cold and snow.
 
In Turkey, aid is arriving from dozens of nations amid growing anger there over what critics call a slow response to the disaster. Turkeys President 
 
 acknowledged the shortcomings but says his government is doing all it can to help every citizen who's been affected.
 
In time, of course, running out to find trap survivors but there are some success stories. A man in southeastern Turkey rescued earlier Thursday 
 
 after spending 77 hours buried in the rubble. Jomana Karadsheh visited Adana where families of missing loved ones are hoping and praying for the 
 
 best.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A five-year-old emerges from underneath the rubble in Turkey's hard hit, Hatay, one of the youngest 
 
 of thousands of life saved. But for too many, it was too late. In the town of Kerkan, they mourned one of the many who've not made it out alive. With 
 
 the death toll rising by the hour, this is a race against time.
 
How many are buried under the wreckage of this massive quake zone? No one really knows. Estimates in the tens of thousands. Here in Adana, search and 
 
 rescue crews worked tirelessly around the clock, digging through what used to be a 14-storey residential building where families lay asleep when the 
 
 monstrous earthquake hit.
 
Survivors have gathered at the site of the rescue mission, their shelter and hot meals. And in the bitter cold, they huddle around these fires, 
 
 everyone with a story of the horror they've survived. The shock, the trauma, the pain visible on every face. Parents doing what they can to try 
 
 and make their little ones forget.
 
Many here are anxiously awaiting news of their loved ones and friends buried under what's left of their homes.
 
(on camera): Get down. They're asking us to get down. And we believe this is because they're scanning the building, the wreckage. This is a very, 
 
 very careful and delicate operation that's going on to try and see if they can locate any survivors, because so far they haven't been able to.
 
(voice-over): No survivors yet, only lifeless body is pulled. It's been three days. Why can't they get my son out, this father wails.
 
As night falls, the rest of the family wait desperately for any news of 25- year-old Cert (ph). They've been out here for three long nights.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's so, so, so bad. Because all these night, we are thinking my family, my relatives, my cousin's dad he is crying so much. He 
 
 is crying so much. He is wondering where is his son.
 
KARADSHEH (on camera): Your cousin's dad.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
KARADSHEH (on camera): We saw him earlier. He was crying. He was crying.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, yes, we all cry. That's why I don't know what to say. All is -- we should pray to God.
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): And that is all they and countless others can do right now.
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
KINKADE: So devastating. Jomana Karadsheh joins us from a port city in southern Turkey where ships have been turned into hospitals. Jomana, some 
 
 incredible rescues but sadly, those are becoming more rare. Just explain what's happening where you are.
 
KARADSHEH: They are becoming more rare and hope is fading and finding any survivors especially around here and always been speaking to people. Just 
 
 to explain to you where we are, Lynda, we are in the port city of Iskenderun which is part of Hatay province, one of the hardest hit 
 
 provinces in Turkey by the earthquake.
 
And right here, you've got this building, it was a residential building, an 11-storey building. There were few people in here. And so far, there was 
 
 only one person unaccounted for left inside that building. And we've been here throughout the day and you've had family members and friends waiting 
 
 outside to see if they'll be able to locate this young man.
 <br>[10:35:11]
 
And right now it seems, Lynda, just a few moments ago, we've had his family members gathered here. As you can see his mother, his sister, breaking 
 
 down, wailing, crying, this realization that they're probably going to be pulling his body out soon.
 
I mean, this is just unimaginable heartbreak when the people have been holding on to the hope that maybe their loved ones have survived this. But 
 
 right now, they are just coming to terms with their loss. And we're talking about people who survived the quake themselves. People who are so 
 
 traumatized.
 
I mean, here and all around the city, there's just so much devastation, destruction, search and rescue sites, everywhere around Iskenderun. And 
 
 speaking to people, they're just dazed, confused, traumatized. One man telling us that he feels like he's living in a dream right now. And he just 
 
 doesn't know when he's going to wake up from the stream.
 
He says, we're breathing, but we're not living. This is just on unimaginable suffering, Lynda. And on such a large scale, we're talking 
 
 about one city, and this is a massive earthquake zone across 10 provinces. Millions of people living in the earthquake zone here in Turkey. And so you 
 
 can imagine how many more of these stories hundreds of thousands of people going through what we have been witnessing here. Just really heartbreaking.
 
KINKADE: Yes, it's absolutely gut wrenching. The U.N. saying that 23 million people have been impacted by this earthquake. And understandably, 
 
 we are seeing some survivors showing signs of anger. Some of that anger directed at the government complaining that nothing was done and not enough 
 
 was done to start the search earlier to carry out the rescues quicker.
 
The Turkey's President has been defending it. But this disaster also comes at a critical time with a federal election due to happen in about three 
 
 months.
 
KARADSHEH: It is and everything right now is about election campaigning. So you're going to hear from the opposition in the country criticizing the 
 
 government's response. You're going to hear the government responding with what we saw yesterday where Twitter restrictions at a time when there is so 
 
 much criticism of the government response.
 
But at the same time, Lynda, I have to mention, speaking to some people here today, that you cannot really blame anyone for this. This is a natural 
 
 disaster. And no matter how prepared you are for something like this, nothing prepares you for something of this magnitude.
 
And, you know, we've seen these incredible scenes as well as we're driving into Iskenderun today. You've got volunteers, people from across Turkey, 
 
 driving over to Hatay, to Iskenderun just packing their cars with water, with supplies, children's diapers, everything you can imagine, bread food, 
 
 just coming here to help to do whatever they can to assist.
 
They're saying, look, there are relief organizations that are on site. They're doing their best. But again, this is such a massive area, and they 
 
 just need all the help they can get. A short time ago, we were speaking to a young man who was outside of building where his parents were when the 
 
 earthquake struck.
 
He doesn't know where his father is. But he was telling us that he could see his mother's leg. And he -- saying that all he wants right now is to 
 
 just give her a dignified end. And he's saying that they need all the help they can get. Turkey's doing all its can right now, but they want more 
 
 support. They want more help.
 
And you can just imagine what the situation is like across the border in Syria, where people have absolutely nothing.
 
KINKADE: Yes. And I understand not far from where you are. You're in a port city and some ships nearby have been turned into field hospitals. We've 
 
 spent a lot of time covering the rescue operation looking at survivors and obviously seeing this death toll rise. But in terms of those injured, what 
 
 sort of injuries are you seeing and what is the hospital setup like for these field hospitals that are popping up in cities around Turkey?
 
KARADSHEH: Well, Lynda, as you can imagine here, for example, in the city of Iskenderun, the main hospital was completely destroyed. So on our drive 
 
 over to Iskenderun today, you can see all these ambulances rushing out towards Adana where we were before, just trying to move the injured, those 
 
 they are able to move out for treatment.
 <br>[10:40:11]
 
But at the same time, you've got also the Turkish Navy. They've had Naval vessels as well at the ports here evacuating the injured to major cities 
 
 for treatment there. I mean, again, we're talking about tens of thousands of people who've been injured.
 
We spoke to a young woman yesterday who said that she was in a hospital and she saw some horrific, horrific injuries. And she was there looking for her 
 
 cousin, who was in a building, a 14-storey building where many people have been pulled out as dead bodies. No one's come out -- no survivors have been 
 
 found.
 
And she says after going to that hospital and seeing the sort of injuries, seeing the sort of the kind of body parts that were pulled out, she says 
 
 that she's only praying right now that her cousin's body because she really doesn't believe that he survived. Now, I mean, four days into this, she's 
 
 just hoping that the body is in one piece.
 
I mean, this is how horrific the situation is. This is the kind of situation that people have to deal with right now. And people haven't even 
 
 started to deal with their own trauma how they're feeling right now. I mean, I can tell you here, Lynda, just walking around, you just see people 
 
 just walking completely dazed, confused.
 
They just don't understand what has happened. They can't yet process what has happened. In a matter of seconds, lives completely destroyed, 
 
 livelihoods destroyed, families shattered. It's just unimaginable, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: And this disaster, of course, occurring when many was sleeping at home in their beds.
 
Jomana Karadsheh, good to have you with us. We appreciate your time. Thanks so much.
 
For ways to help the victims of the earthquake, you can go to CNN.com/impact.
 
Well, still to come, Ukraine's President thanks Europe for providing his people with refuge and shelter. Makes a plea for more weapons to fight of 
 
 Russia's attacks. We're going to speak with a German lawmaker when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Welcome back. Volodymyr Zelenskyy says long term peace in Europe will only happen when Ukraine gets victory and becomes part of the European 
 
 Union. The Ukrainian President spoke at a news conference shortly after he got a standing ovation as he addressed the European Parliament.
 
Mr. Zelenskyy said his country and the E.U. share the same values and way of life and that Europe is Ukraine's home.
 <br>[10:45:03]
 
He stop in Brussels follows a whirlwind visit to London and Paris. French President Emmanuel Macron presented him with the Grand Cross of the Legion 
 
 of Honor, the country's highest decoration.
 
All of this part of a major push to get more commitments for more tanks, missiles, and especially right now fighter jets. Ukraine says Western 
 
 fighter jets could make a huge difference in driving back Russian forces. Our Frederik Pleitgen reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Ukrainian towns getting decimated by Russian firepower every day. This is 
 
 Marinka in the east of the country almost completely reduced to rubble.
 
Around Bakhmut, combat at close quarters, as Ukrainian troops tried to prevent a Russian fighters of the Wagner private military company from 
 
 encircling the city. Wagner boss, Yevgeny Prigozhin, so confident in his own private air force, he took to the skies and challenged Ukraine's 
 
 President to a dog fight.
 
Tomorrow, I'm boarding a MiG-29, he said. If you desire, we'll meet in the sky.
 
ZELENSKYY: To you, Speaker.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): But Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is in Europe, visiting the U.K.'s Parliament, pleading for Western combat jets.
 
ZELENSKYY: In Britain, the king is an Air Force pilot, and in Ukraine today, every Air Force pilot is a king.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Despite being much smaller and older than Moscow's Air Force, the Ukrainians are still very much in the fight in the skies, 
 
 but they're losing planes and having trouble maintaining their Soviet fleet.
 
Even a small number of Western fighters would make a big difference, says Ukraine's Air Force spokesman.
 
We can start with a few squadrons, he says, each with 12 jets. If we have one to two or more squadrons, it would be the first step for our pilots to 
 
 transition. They can be information and perform combat missions on different directions.
 
The U.S. has given the Ukrainian some air-launched anti-radiation missiles called HARM. But Kyiv says those too would work much better if launched 
 
 from Western jets.
 
The HARM missiles aren't as efficient as if they were used from American or other allied aircraft, the spokesman says. Their functionality is 
 
 restricted. The range is shorter, making the efficiency lower.
 
Ukrainian officials say they want U.S.-made F-16. So far, President Biden has ruled out giving Kyiv combat aircraft. But the U.K. says it will soon 
 
 start training Ukrainian pilots. And Ukrainian officials tell CNN, they're confident they'll get jets, just like eventually they got the main battle 
 
 tanks they requested.
 
We'd like help as soon as possible like yesterday, he says, and our partners say it will come tomorrow. And the space between yesterday and 
 
 tomorrow is very important to us.
 
And Ukraine civilians remain in the crosshairs of Russia's cannons, missiles, and jets, while Kyiv hopes for more Western support to start 
 
 beating them back.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, still to come on CONNECT THE WORLD, we will take you to the skies to show you the extensive airborne operation to make sure the Super 
 
 Bowl will be safe.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:50:12]
 
KINKADE: Well tens of thousands of American football fans are headed to the Super Bowl this weekend, one of the biggest sporting events in the world. 
 
 And with any event like that, security is a major concern.
 
Well, CNN's Rosa Flores got a look at the extensive Super Bowl security operation from high above the stadium.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): What are U.S. Customs and Border Protection helicopter?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're flying about 500 fleet.
 
FLORES (voice-over): A U.S. Air Force KC-135 Stratotanker.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All clear.
 
FLORES (voice-over): And an F-16 fighter jets doing over Glendale, Arizona. They're tasked with guarding the skies over Super Bowl LVII. With nearly 
 
 200,000 fans expected for the big game between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Philadelphia Eagles, security is a multiagency effort.
 
FLORES (on camera): What types of threats does the FBI prepare for when it comes to the Super Bowl?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, a wide variety. Anything from active shooters to explosive threats, IED threats, the bomb threats, suspicious packages.
 
FLORES (voice over): From this operations center, the FBI, alongside more than 40 federal, state and local law enforcement agencies will use these 
 
 360-degree cameras to have eyes on every inch of the stadium.
 
Scott Brown is the federal top official in charge of security.
 
SCOTT BROWN, HOMELAND SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS, SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: I was in New York for 9/11. I've seen the devastating impacts of terrorism on 
 
 our soil. I'm deeply committed, as are all my partners, to making sure that we don't have an incident like that here.
 
FLORES (voice-over): Sky patrol is in the hands of U.S. Customs and Border Protection Air and Marine Operations.
 
(on camera): When your teams are patrolling, what could they be looking for?
 
JOSE MURIENTE, TUCSON AIR BRANCH, CBP AIR AND MARINE OPERATIONS: We're going to look for anything out of the ordinary. It could be anything from 
 
 smoke to disruptions.
 
FLORES (on-camera): CBP Air and Marine Operations will be able to fly over the stadium during the big game, but no other aircraft will because the FAA 
 
 will be imposing a flight restriction that's 30 miles wide.
 
FLORES (voice over): Those flight restrictions will be enforced by NORAD, the North American Aerospace Defense Command, with these Air Force F-16 
 
 fighter jets.
 
MAJ. ANDREW SCOTT, U.S. AIR FORCE, 601ST AIR OPERATIONS CENTER: Since 9/11 we've been able to safely escort out any aircraft that's violating 
 
 restricted airspace.
 
FLORES (voice-over): NORAD is taking no chances. This KC-135 Stratotanker is part of the fleet on hand.
 
(on camera): This aircraft can carry up to 200,000 pounds of fuel. There are 10 tanks on board, including some on the wings.
 
FLORES (voice over): And it can refuel an F-16, midair, in minutes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So it prevents us from having to return for fuel on the ground. So, it's absolutely critical.
 
FLORES (voice-over): The fighter jets refuel from a receptacle that's right behind the pilot.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And my job, as the pilot, is just to remain within the basket in a safe, controlled, stable position.
 
FLORES (voice-over): If the FAA's flight restrictions are broken, NORAD or CBP Air and Marine Operations will engage.
 
MURIENTE: Our role in the event of a criminal event is to bring special response teams to the scene.
 
FLORES (voice-over): The message from law enforcement to anyone thinking about committing a crime during the Super Bowl is simple.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Don't do it. You're going to wind up in cuffs.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FLORES: Now, Lynda, if that fighter jet Stratotanker and the helicopter are not reasons enough to deter criminals, here around the Superbowl, there are 
 
 5,000 other reasons why criminals should not even come here. There are 5,000 public safety personnel that are assigned just for the Super Bowl.
 
And some of them, you will be able to see them because they have police badges. Others will be blending in. You're not going to be able to see them 
 
 but they're going to be there deterring crime. Lynda?
 
KINKADE: Massive operation. I'll be watching at a neighbor's house. Risa Flores, good to see you. Thanks so much for that report.
 
Well he's music was the soundtrack to many that fans listened to his collaborations with some of the biggest giants in the music industry. 
 
 "Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head", one of Oscar and Grammy winning composer Burt Bacharach's many hits with a songwriter passed away at the 
 
 age of 94 at his home in Los Angeles on Wednesday. Here's a look back at his life.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Legendary tunesmith Burt Bacharach was one of the 20th century's most accomplished composers. His music spanned generations 
 
 providing signature hits for acts like The Carpenters, Dusty Springfield, Luther Vandross, Tom Jones and Dionne Warwick.
 
(SINGING)
 
Bacharach collaborated with other songwriters including Carole Bayer Sager, the third of his four wives. His second wife was actress Angie Dickinson. 
 
 Their high-profile marriage lasted 15 years.
 <br>[10:55:03]
 
Bacharach was born on May 12, 1928 in Kansas City, Missouri. As a young man, he won a scholarship to the Music Academy of the West and had a short 
 
 stint in the army before becoming the music director for actress Marlene Dietrich, a prophetic sign for his career where music and movies would 
 
 intertwine.
 
Bacharach won an Oscar for "Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head." The theme song from Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and another for the movie 
 
 score. He took home his third Oscar for the theme song from the film "Arthur."
 
He also won six Grammys.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ladies and gentlemen Mr. Burt Bacharach and Mr. Elvis Costello.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Bacharach's career experienced a resurgence in the late 90s. His music is heard in the "Austin Powers" 
 
 movies and "My Best Friend's Wedding." And he teamed up with artists like R&amp;B Crooner Ron Isley.
 
(SINGING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): He also paired with British rocker Elvis Costello on a song for the film, "Grace of My Heart."
 
In 2012, President Obama paid tribute to the songwriting duo Bacharach and Hal David with the nation's highest award for popular music, the Gershwin 
 
 Prize.
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: What began as an occasional collaboration in late 50s quickly became a partnership that 
 
 produced dozens of top 40 hits. Burt and Hal have never been limited to one genre or even one generation.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Some criticized Bacharach's music as easy listening. He didn't seem to mind.
 
BURT BACHARACH, SONGWRITER: There was a cartoon once that I saw, it was sent to me. Three guys waiting for elevators. One elevator was listed and 
 
 Seanie (ph). The other was Manilow and the other was background. So I thought, you know, that's very flattering.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Bacharach said his songs came from what moved him and it was his music that over decades moved so many.
 
(SINGING)
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Burt Bacharach dead at the age of 94. So many fantastic hits there.
 
Well, CONNECT THE WORLD will continue in just a moment. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END