Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Exonerated Central Park Five Member Wins Primary For NYC Council Seat In Harlem; Twitter Threatens To Sue Meta Over Threads; FDA Approves Alzheimer's Drug, Clearing Way For Medicare Coverage. Aired 7:30-8a ET

Aired July 07, 2023 - 07:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:30:00]
 
YUSEF SALAAM, (D) NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL CANDIDATE:  And, of course, years later now, I'm looking back at that journey -- the journey that I've come through -- and I'm saying to myself wow. All of the things that happened -- every single piece -- the good, the bad, the ugly has prepared me for this moment right now.
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR:  You refer to scripture and what it tells us about what Joseph (PH) endured. 
 
SALAAM:  Yes.
 
HARLOW:  It's so similar to the path that you endured. But then you've also said God gives us a permission to live life.
 
Can you just speak to how your faith has guided you to this moment and how it will guide you leading this city?
 
SALAAM:  Absolutely. And I was listening to a good friend of mine, Les Brown, and he said every single one of us were born on purpose. And the reason why we know this is because when our parents were in the process of creating us -- I mean, it's the birds and the bees stories but cleaned up for all audiences -- we were one of over 400 million options, and God chose us. 
 
And so, if we don't know anything, we have to know that we were born on purpose and therefore, we have a purpose. That purpose, once it uncovers itself -- when it reveals itself to us, we get the opportunity to say it's time. You know, for me, of course, I've been waiting to figure out why. And they say if you can find the why you can live in the how. 
 
And, of course, all throughout the journey I knew that my faith was guiding me and was helping me. In fact, I was hanging on to the rope that God extends to all of us, and that's what literally allowed me to jump over barriers -- leaps and bounds -- figure out ways forward. 
 
Really, in many ways, I think I call it resuscitating my own life. That life that was altered. That was -- that was interrupted. Arrested development if you will. I wasn't supposed to be able to come out unscathed. I mean, we still have indelible scars, of course. But at the same time, those scars allow me to be able to peer into the darkness. To understand where those pain points are for our people and say you know what, I've been so close to the pain, we have to have a seat at the table. If we're not at the table our lives are being decided for us -- therefore, we're on the menu.
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR:  Wow. Speaking of being on the menu -- your life being decided for you -- I mentioned the full-page ads back 30 years ago now from Donald Trump. I want to put the side-by-side of his ad and your ad after his arraignment. The similarities are clear here.
 
What does this moment mean to you in that context, and what do you say to him now?
 
SALAAM:  You know, it's the juxtaposition of knowing that we are in a divided States of America. We've constantly been trying to unite us as a people. And the type of energy Black people have always had has been energy of love, of acceptance, of equality and equity. We've never wanted revenge. That's never who we've been as a -- as a people. 
 
But the juxtaposition of being able to see here a sitting -- well, a former president --
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes.
 
SALAAM:  -- has received what I call karma in this life. It's us being able to put the mirror up to all of us as Americans to say hold on. If the exonerated five, as we are now known, did not get justice 34 years ago in a country that says you're innocent until proven guilty, in a country that says slavery is alive and sick because of the punishment of crime, is this going to be a moment where we will finally see justice? And I'm saying that in the -- on the -- in the reality of knowing if we were actually guilty of these crimes we should have gone to prison, but we weren't guilty. 
 
HARLOW:  Your mother, Sharonne Salaam, spoke to The New York Times and I was so struck by her quote because she was out there campaigning with you. She was up in Harlem on 125th Street and she remembered though what it was like walking into the precinct, right, which you never came out.
 
SALAAM:  Yes.
 
HARLOW:  For seven years, you never came out of prison. And she said, "Walking into that precinct, it was like after all of those years the clan had finally come after me." Talking about the Ku Klux Klan and how they went after your grandfather. 
 
SALAAM:  Yes.
 
HARLOW:  How can you --
 
SALAAM:  Oh my goodness.
 
HARLOW:  -- in that seat, change the justice system? Change the impediments that are still there.
 
SALAAM:  You know, our job is to reflect the light. I was plunged into darkness and I had to find tools to build light in that dark space. And I think that is the challenge. We have to lift as we climb. It's about moving mountains. It's about removing the barriers that are disallowing us to see clearly. 
 
In fact, when they told me what they told me about myself, the hope was that I would accept it. The hope was that I would say you know what, I was born a mistake so, therefore, now I'm going to live my life as if I'm a mistake. That's what I had to remind myself.
 <br>[07:35:03]
 
Reading the letters that my grandmother sent me, accepting the visits that my mother gave when she came to visit me, it was those moments that allowed me to remember I was born on purpose. That I was -- that I am my ancestors' wildest dreams -- not their nightmares. 
 
And I think because of that -- you know, those stories that my mother told me as I was growing up -- she would always say I was raised in a Jim Crow south. I had no idea what she was talking about. Telling me that she had to drive, as a child, in darkness because they heard the Klan was out. And she had to run to the front door and open it so that everyone would be able to get in because, of course, you would -- they would just pop up on you. 
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes.
 
SALAAM:  And here it is now in New York, I'm 15 and this happens to us. The spike wheels of justice runs us over. Lays us out flat and leaves us there.
 
BLACKWELL:  And now you are bringing that full life experience --
 
SALAAM:  Absolutely.
 
BLACKWELL:  -- full narrative to the New York City Council.
 
Yusef Salaam, thank you so much for being with us this morning. 
 
HARLOW:  Yes.
 
BLACKWELL:  Again, congratulations on the primary win.
 
SALAAM:  Oh, my pleasure -- my pleasure. And I always tell people to follow us on social media.
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes.
 
SALAAM:  Follow us on our website at harlemforyusef.com. It's important. We're building this platform for us.
 
BLACKWELL:  All right. Thank you.
 
SALAAM:  Thank you. HARLOW:  Thank you, Yusef.
 
Well, ahead, Elon Musk accuses Meta and Mark Zuckerberg of cheating in creating this new social media app, Threads. Now he's lawyering up, threatening to sue. More on that ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[07:40:26]
 
HARLOW:  You know who always makes money in these things? Lawyers. Elon Musk lawyering up, threatening to sue Meta over its launch of Threads. That is Mark Zuckerberg's new Twitter-like app. 
 
A lawyer for Musk sent a letter to Zuckerberg accusing the company Meta of hiring, quote, "dozens of former Trump (sic) employees to build its new app." Twitter also accuses Meta of engaging in, quote, "systematic, willful, and unlawful misappropriation of Twitter's trade secrets and other intellectual property." Very lawyerly language.
 
Meta denies that and fired back saying, quote, "No one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee. That is just not a thing."
 
Sara Fischer is here with more on the fight but also, wow, the blockbuster subscriptions. So where do you want to start?
 
SARA FISCHER, CNN SENIOR MEDIA ANALYST:  I mean, it's been absolutely crazy, Poppy, online. I mean, Threads launched and literally overnight became one of the most downloaded apps in the world of all time. It has -- according to Mark Zuckerberg, as of Thursday morning, over 30 million people signed up. But there's data to suggest that well over 40 million have actually signed up at this point. Poppy, that's a major gain for this app. 
 
And if you think about it, Meta, over the years, has launched so many different copycat apps and features but they've shuttered them because they only garner a few hundred thousand users. 
 
The fact that this is going to be so successful -- already is -- is a huge threat to Elon Musk. And as a result, it does not shock me that he is threatening legal action because he's backed into a corner and there's not much else he can do at this point.
 
BLACKWELL:  You know, I've downloaded Threads. I've "Threaded" -- I guess if that's the verb now is -- you know, a meme --
 
HARLOW:  High (PH).
 
BLACKWELL:  -- of Arnold Jackson from "DIFF'RENT STROKES" looking around in confusion like --
 
HARLOW:  Oh, that's perfect.
 
BLACKWELL:  -- what am I supposed to be doing here that I'm not doing on Twitter. FISCHER:  Well, it's a very similar environment in the sense that you
 
 can still post things, like them, retweet them -- or rethread them if you will. But there are a few things that are actually missing. They don't have direct messages yet on Threads but I anticipate that will come. You can't sort things through a chronological feed yet. Again, I assume that will come.
 
But really, where the difference lies, Victor, is that this app has the same content moderation and safety rules that you get on Instagram. 
 
You also can import your same following and followers list from Instagram, which automatically gives you a little bit of a community to start.
 
And so, I think that for users who have felt as though Twitter has become toxic, not moderated, spammy, what this app offers you is a different type of a more curated and more moderated experience.
 
HARLOW:  Is that -- I'm trying to open mine. I'm having a very hard time understanding it but -- as Victor can see.
 
BLACKWELL:  They're going to play this back in 10 years and be like, remember those anchors didn't know what Threads was?
 
HARLOW:  I know, I know. That's OK. I'm a total (INAUDIBLE) at it. 
 
OK, but I have a question about this kindness thing. Didn't Mark Zuckerberg say he sort of sees it as a kinder platform? I believe people are nicer on Instagram --
 
BLACKWELL:  They are.
 
HARLOW:  -- to me than on Twitter. 
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes.
 
HARLOW:  Is this same going to be true here?
 
FISCHER:  Well, I mean, that's their goal. But, Poppy, we've talked about this. It's going to be very hard for Meta to continue to be in this place where they say this is going to be a kind and friendly environment. Because as you know, these types of public discourse apps -- they invite a lot of conversation around polarizing topics. Things like policy. Things like politics. Things like breaking news.
 
And so, sure, they, like TikTok, might want to say this is going to be a kind and friendly place. But at the end of the day, it will be determined whether or not they can moderate it to be as such without infringing on free speech. If I had to guess, this is going to be the toughest thing for Meta to circle. 
 
Right now, this is a very friendly and exciting experience. In fact, most of the conversations on Threads are just about Threads. But once we get closer to an election, I'm curious to see if the tone of those conversations changes. HARLOW:  That's a good point.
 
BLACKWELL:  So there will be ads, right -- including, as we get closer to the election, political ads. That will be something that they have to deal with as they do on Facebook.
 
FISCHER:  So, what their plan is for now is to just focus on scaling the user base. You know, they probably are looking to get up to, like, a billion users. If you take a look at their other apps, that's like the big threshold. And once they can get to a massive scale -- yes, then they will likely introduce advertising. I mean, if they don't, Wall Street is going to get very upset.
 
In terms of what that advertising would look like, I've asked folks -- sources within Meta -- what would those policies be? Because you'll recall a few years ago, Twitter -- before Elon Musk said that they wouldn't accept political ads and now they've broughten (sic) them back. And that person has told me that they think that there will be the same policies that were currently available on Instagram.
 
So, right now, you can buy and sell political ads on Instagram. You'll be able then, hopefully, to do it on Threads, which could be a game- changer for campaigns.
 <br>[07:45:05]
 
BLACKWELL:  All right. I'm still trying to figure out if Twitter is going to be me and then Threads is my alter ego. 
 
HARLOW:  Which one's nicer?
 
BLACKWELL:  They're both really nice guys.
 
HARLOW:  They are the best.
 
BLACKWELL:  Sara Fischer, thanks so much.
 
HARLOW:  I need her to stick around and help me figure it out.
 
BLACKWELL:  All right.
 
HARLOW:  OK, we have this ahead.
 
The FDA -- we talked about this a little bit yesterday -- approving the proven -- the first drug proven to slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease. Now the question is will it be paid for by the government? Largely, yes.
 
BLACKWELL:  And Donald Trump's 2020 chaotic Oval Office meeting during the final days of his administration. That's now the focus of the special counsel's investigation. The witnesses investigators questioned and where the probe is headed.
 
(COMMERCIAL)
 <br>[07:50:01] HARLOW:  Welcome back.
 
The FDA has given full approval of the Alzheimer's drug Leqembi -- the first drug that's shown to modestly slow cognitive decline in certain patients. Full approval now from the FDA. 
 
And that approval also cleared the way for the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to expand coverage for Americans. It was priced at almost $27,000 a year without insurance. Advocates have been lobbying hard for months after Medicare officials announced last year that they wouldn't cover the drug's cost without the FDA's full approval. Well, now they have it.
 
BLACKWELL:  Some analysts say we are in the middle of a golden age of Black television. But how we got here is a culmination of an 80-year struggle for Black artists to be seen and heard on TV. 
 
A new CNN original series explores the rich history of Black television and the creators who brought it to life. Here's a look at "SEE IT LOUD: THE HISTORY OF BLACK TELEVISION."
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  When I think about the history of Black television, I really think about progress. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  For the longest time, we were footnotes in history.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It is so important for us to have African American representation.
 
MONTEL WILLIAMS, TELEVISION HOST:  We've talked about things that nobody in this country was willing to have a discussion about.
 
TISHA CAMPBELL, ACTRESS:  I was, like, Martin, can you believe they call us icons?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  That was one of the first times I saw myself in a sci-fi drama. 
 
SHERRI SHEPHERD, TALK SHOW HOST:  That show was so successful it launched Bravo Network. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  You have Tyler Perry, who owns a studio. In 1950, you could have never imagined it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This an era to be as loud as possible and as Black as possible.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  We are the story.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL:  Joining us now is CNN senior entertainment reporter, Lisa France. Lisa, good to see you. So, I talked about this being the golden age of Black television but when we start talking about what's the -- some of the best Black television shows a lot of people start in the '70s and '80s.
 
LISA FRANCE, CNN SENIOR ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER:  Yes -- no. You have to go back further than that. And it's so important. I'm so excited for this series because it's wonderful to see Black creators and Black TV shows finally get their roses. 
 
Because, I mean, when TV first started we had the stereotypical betrayals like "AMOS 'N' ANDY" and things like that because we were seeing Black stories through a white gaze. And it wasn't until, like, the 1960s when we had like a "JULIA" with Diahann Carroll where she played a nurse. 
 
And these types of shows and this type of history is so important because television helps to inform people. It's really an educator when it comes to race and race relations. And Black culture and Black TV is American culture. It is American TV. And it's important and it's extremely influential. So I'm so glad that we have this series, which is tracing how we got from an "AMOS 'N' ANDY" to Tyler Perry owning his own studio. 
 
HARLOW:  Yes, there you go.
 
Lisa, it's so good to have you, especially on this. You are the queen of all things entertainment in our world. 
 
FRANCE:  Thank you.
 
HARLOW:  You think back 20-30 years ago about the real dearth of Black feature characters in dramas. That has changed markedly, right, when you look now. Some of the most significant characters and the most significant dramas on television today.
 
FRANCE:  Yes, absolutely. It used to be that you would just have a character here and there.
 
HARLOW:  Yes.
 
FRANCE:  And now we have Shondaland. I mean, scandal. You have TV shows that are mostly Black characters and this is so incredible to see, especially in the drama. Because when it comes to comedy, comedy is a little bit easier, right? It's a way to have a portrayal of people's lives that makes it more relatable. 
 
But when it comes to drama, there was a sense that people didn't really want to see dramatic TV with Black people. But that changed when -- with the success of "ROOTS" -- the miniseries. Because people from all nationalities, all races tuned in and they were fascinated by it. And so that let Hollywood know that there was money to be made in telling Black dramatic stories.
 
BLACKWELL:  And there are some great dramas on television now -- "QUEEN SUGAR", "P-VALLEY" -- some great shows on. Lisa France, always good to talk to you. Be sure to tune in, everybody. The all-new CNN original series "SEE IT LOUD: THE HISTORY OF BLACK TELEVISION" premieres Sunday at 9:00 Eastern and Pacific only on CNN.
 
HARLOW:  Our thanks to Lisa.
 
All right. The special counsel investigating efforts to overrun the 2020 election -- well, they're now focused on a chaotic Oval Office meeting that happened just days before the January 6 insurrection. Our exclusive reporting is ahead.
 
And after more than a half-century of great stages across the world they performed on, the Eagles are finally taking it easy and ending their historic 52-year run. The legendary band announced that the final dates of what they're calling their "Long Goodbye Tour" will be coming up soon. It kicks off in New York in September but is expected to continue all the way to 2025.
 <br>[07:55:10]
 
COMMERCIAL
 
HARLOW:  Good morning, everyone. Good Friday morning, everyone. We're glad you're with us. I'm especially grateful to you for being up here.
 
BLACKWELL:  Everybody loves a Friday.
 
HARLOW:  But you've got to work all weekend. You've got your show in the morning. He's a hard worker. 
 
BLACKWELL:  I still like Saturdays and Sundays but the one with a Friday.
 
HARLOW:  Victor, it's been great to sit next to you.
 
BLACKWELL:  Likewise.
 
HARLOW:  We're glad you're with us. We start this hour with exclusive CNN reporting. 
 
We're now learning that the special counsel's team of investigators or honing in a heated Oval Office meeting in the final days of the Trump presidency when extreme ideas were floated to try to keep him in power.
 
BLACKWELL:  Twitter is now threatening to sue Meta after its blockbuster launch of a rival app called Threads. Now, Threads surpassed 50 million sign-ups in its first 24 hours. We'll break down the accusations by Elon Musk's lawyer.
 
HARLOW:  Also, we're about to get the jobs report for last month.