Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Private who Entered North Korea Faced Dismissal; Trump says he Expects Indictment for Third Time; Voicemod CEO: AI won't Replace Actors because Technology Needs Human Inputs; Kerry: U.S., China "Deeply Alarmed" by Climate Findings; Video Shows Wagner's Prigozhin Seemingly in Belarus. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired July 19, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNNI HOST: Welcome to "First Move". Fantastic to have you with us for weather weary Wednesday on the show. Temperature records 
 
 breaking as thermometer readings rise around the world and the July heatwave continues.
 
Meanwhile, a midsummer melting of a different sort underway for global investors M for markets and a melt up with the DOW rising for seven 
 
 straight sessions. It's actually the strongest advance in more than two years the S&amp;P and the NASDAQ hitting fresh 15 month highs too, amid hopes 
 
 the United States can avoid recession.
 
Well, that's for bank earnings financial giant Goldman Sachs reporting a rare profit miss a loan disappointment in fact after a whole host of strong 
 
 Q2 banking results. L for lower inflation summer slowdown in the United Kingdom as prices ease to more than one year lows finally below 8 percent. 
 
 Remember that still four times the Bank of England's 2 percent target.
 
The rate rises are finally having an impact. And T the Tesla, the EV maker just one of the big tech firms reporting after the closing bell this 
 
 Wednesday along with Netflix and IBM, I think Tesla investors want more cyber truck and less cage fight with Zuck and all the other nonsense. I'd 
 
 probably end a poop emoji for that. I'll take it.
 
Ahead of all those tech earnings in the meantime, a bit of pre market green on Wall Street. Strong gains for UK stocks after that encouraging inflation 
 
 print the FTSE easily outperforming the rest of Europe as you can see there.
 
The NIKKEI meanwhile outperforming in Asia and the HANG SENG easing for a second day with China's slowing economy remaining the focus, mining giant 
 
 Rio Tinto warned that metal shipments to China are sagging saying China's recovery has fallen short of expectations. That's an interesting indicator.
 
Plenty in the meantime of action across the commodity space wheat futures higher by over 4 percent and up now more than 12 percent over the past five 
 
 trading sessions. As Ukrainian President Zelenskyy warns Russia is "Deliberately targeting his country's Grain Deal infrastructure". Kyiv now 
 
 saying some 60,000 tons of grain were destroyed overnight in new missile attacks all the details on that in just a moment.
 
But first, we're learning more about the U.S. soldier who the Pentagon says willfully ran across the border into North Korea. Army Private Travis King 
 
 already faced disciplinary action for assault, and was supposed to be being sent back to the United States.
 
But according to a U.S. official, he made his way to the Joint Border security area in the demilitarized zone and dashed over the demarcation 
 
 line. Our Will Ripley is very close to the border and spoke with my colleague Christina McFarland, just a short while ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): We're still a bit of a distance from the DMZ approaching what's known as the 
 
 unification bridge. And you can see even less than five miles out you can still there spike strips on the road. There are obviously all of these 
 
 barricades.
 
Basically, they do not want people getting close to the demilitarized zone, unless they are authorized to do so. Now tour groups they're suspended for 
 
 the time being. They were allowed in. But there's a lot of protocol, a lot of security checks that you have to go through.
 
And but in fact, if indeed it was at Panmunjom, where this whole incident happened, then this young U.S. Army a private 23-year-old Travis King may 
 
 have actually stepped across in relatively the same way that President Trump stepped across when he went with Kim Jong-Un, which is just kind of, 
 
 you know, we don't know if there's video that will ever be released that would show it obviously was probably caught on multiple security cameras, 
 
 given the sensitivity of this location but whether or not that will ever see the light of day. We don't know.
 
What we also don't know Christina is exactly how long Mr. King is going to be in North Korean custody. Pretty complicated situation, considering the 
 
 two sides have not had any official lines of communication for a very long time.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Our Marc Stewart now joins us on this too. Marc we do as a result of the last 12 hours or so heavily some understanding of what this 
 
 individual has been through in the past six months. That means some way play towards his state of mind when this took place.
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right, and that is going to be a big part of this investigation. Let me just back up a little bit and kind of walk 
 
 through what we have discovered over the last 12 hours or so or now almost 24 hours in a way as to what happened.
 
As you mentioned, this is a young man, a private in the military who had some issues. He had been serving time in -- he was detained here in South 
 
 Korea that is for an assault charge. It was agreed upon that he would fly back to the United States to face an administrative separation from the 
 
 military.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
Basically, he and the military were going to part ways. He was taken to the airport and he had escorts with him who took him to the airport. But when 
 
 they hit the customs line, the customs check, these escorts were not able to go through with him.
 
He went through, and then somehow, somewhere in that process, he was able to leave the airport, and then somehow join this tour group. And as we 
 
 talked about yesterday, these tours of the DMZ are open to the public. It's something as a tourist you can do.
 
How exactly he got from there from the airport to this tour? What was his thinking behind all of that? That's not clear. His mother spoke recently to 
 
 ABC News. She said she was surprised about all of this. But we don't have a greater insight as to what prompted him to make this very bold move.
 
As Will Ripley alluded to right now, relationships between the United States and North Korea are pretty much non existent. There was some 
 
 discussion during at least part of the Trump Administration, but right now, there is no formal dialogue taking place.
 
The Swedish Embassy has in many cases, served as a liaison between the two governments, but how he will be released if that is -- if that is something 
 
 that is in the near future, how that will transpire how that will take place? I mean, this is very unprecedented territory, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Certainly lots of questions to continue to ask. Marc Stewart thank you for that! The Leader of the Wagner Mercenary Group Yevgeny 
 
 Prigozhin, is "Floating about" that's according to the Head of the UK's Intelligence Service MI6, speaking in Prague.
 
Sir Richard Moore told CNN that the Russian President had to cut a "Humiliating deal to end last month's short lived rebellion". Nick Paton 
 
 Walsh is in Prague, and joins us now. Nick, fascinating comments on this!
 
I think it emphasizes the complexity of the relationship between Prigozhin and Vladimir Putin himself. And the fact is the power of his ability to 
 
 enact this attempted rebellion in the first place. It also makes him a walking symbol of that humiliation for Vladimir Putin.
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, certainly, but also to I think it speaks to the weakness of Vladimir Putin during that 
 
 weekend of June the 24th, where essentially, he did have to do what that strongman would like to have thought was essentially unthinkable.
 
And to quote Richard Moore, Sir Richard Moore, the Head of MI6, speaking earlier on today cut a deal to save his own skin. Now, it's important to 
 
 remind people of the context of that day in which in the morning Wagner were marching with Prigozhin in the lead on Moscow, and then miraculously 
 
 in the middle of the day, turn their forces around, and the whole thing seemed to be forgiven. But let's hear the words of the Head of a MI6 
 
 describing that day.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RICHARD MOORE, MI6 CHIEF: If you look at Putin's behaviors on that day, Prigozhin started off I think, as a traitor at breakfast. He had been 
 
 pardoned by supper. And then a few days later, he was invited for tea. So there are some things and even the Chief of MI6 finds that a little bit 
 
 difficult to try and interpret in terms of who's in and who's out?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALSH: Now, that's, I think, an expression of some of the bewilderment, frankly here still visible on the face, the Head of MI6 when describing 
 
 that weekend how startling that flip flop was how, indeed, it appears for their understanding.
 
This is the first time we've heard a public assessment for Western intelligence agencies about that extraordinary weekend unprecedented in 
 
 Putin's Russia that their grasp of what happened that weekend is very similar to what we saw in public that Prigozhin seems to have changed his 
 
 mind had to deal negotiated with Lukashenko, the President of Belarus.
 
And then indeed turned around and indeed that this miraculous meeting for tea as you heard Moore talk about there appears to be the time when maybe 
 
 Putin decided to try and narrow the temperature and even forgive Prigozhin.
 
But Moore used this rare public speech in the City of Prague to remind people that this was outside of Ukraine, the last European Capital to see 
 
 Russian tanks roll into it and to make a clear appeal to Russians disaffected by the brutality of Russia's invasion of Ukraine that they 
 
 could come to MI6 and give secrets assist, essentially spy for the United Kingdom, in a bid to try and end this war as quickly as possible.
 
Interesting too though also, to hear sort of an assessment of Russia's allies at this point, still describing China who've been supportive of 
 
 Russia as complicit in that invasion, but expressing too that at the height of Iran's government, there appears to be division over Iran's persistent 
 
 supply of weaponry, namely the shade drones that were attacking Odessa just over the past two nights or so.
 
And that appears to be a reflection of Iran's desire to earn cash wherever it can but they too parts of struggling with the impact of those weapons 
 
 supply.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
So a speech here which contain I think it's fair to say some interesting details from a Western intelligence perspective that corroborated what we 
 
 thought was the case. But it's so incredibly hard to trust what the Kremlin has been saying, frankly, for over a decade now.
 
But I think reflecting to the extraordinary turmoil, that that we can reflect it around Putin, and possibly an opportunity seen here by British 
 
 spies to get extra Russian recruits because of this sort of whiff of collapse that Putin's weakness over that period of time began to portray, 
 
 Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Exactly. Nick Paton Walsh, thank you. OK, take a look at this dramatic video of Ukrainian air defenses shooting down Russian cruise 
 
 missiles it was recorded by CNN in the Port City of Odessa.
 
The city came under intense Russian bombardment for the second night in a row. And President Zelenskyy says the Kremlin deliberately targeted 
 
 infrastructure used for exporting Ukrainian grain. Russia of course this week pulled out of an agreement to let grain shipments pass safely through 
 
 the Black Sea.
 
Joining us now is Clare Sebastian. Clare President Zelenskyy saying that this infrastructure has been deliberately targeted and now we know 60,000 
 
 tons of grain was apparently destroyed just in those attacks overnight.
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Julia. That's what President Zelenskyy was saying. And we have imagery out from Ukrainian officials as 
 
 well showing some damage it seems to port facilities, the Ministry of Communities Territories and Infrastructure saying that both Odessa and the 
 
 Port of -- also on the Black Sea also included in that Grain Deal were hit.
 
You can see quite significant level of damage there. We had heard earlier in the day, from a Ukrainian official and Odessa that there were missiles 
 
 that got through that actually hit their targets that damaged a grain terminal, an oil facility and other port infrastructure for the second day 
 
 running. We're seeing damage to this port.
 
So that I think clearly significant Russia's account, though of this does deviate from that Russia's Ministry of Defense saying that they hit all 
 
 their targets where of course, the Ukrainian Air Force is saying that they shut down more than half of the missiles and drones that were launched at 
 
 the country.
 
They're saying that they were only targeting military industrial facilities, fuel and ammunition storages and things like that. Also an 
 
 airbase they said they hid in Central Ukraine. We haven't seen evidence of that as of yet. So not actually claiming to be hitting grain infrastructure 
 
 but I think this can also be viewed Julia in the context of the Kremlin's comments on Tuesday.
 
But it was still looking at proposals to respond to the attack on the Kurdish Bridge on Monday, which of course, Ukraine claimed responsibility 
 
 for, though, of course, with the caveat that it is difficult to distinguish in this war, retaliation from the general course of Russia's aggression.
 
CHATTERLEY: Clare Sebastian, thank you for that report. Donald Trump defiant accusing the U.S. Justice Department of being a political weapon, 
 
 the Former U.S. President saying he expects to be indicted for the third time, revealing that the Special Counsel who has already charged him with a 
 
 multitude of other crimes notified him that he's a target of the January 6 investigation. Paula Reid has the details and explains what that means.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA REID, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Former President Trump defiant and railing against Special Counsel Jack Smith during a Fox News Town Hall 
 
 in Iowa Tuesday.
 
DONALD TRUMP, 45TH U.S. PRESIDENT: I got the letter on Sunday night. Think of it. I don't think they've ever sent a letter on Sunday night. And 
 
 they're in a rush because they want interference with the election. It's election interference never been done like this in the history of our 
 
 country and it's a disgrace.
 
REID (voice over): Trump fuming after announcing he had received a letter from the Special Counsel, informing him that he is a target in the criminal 
 
 investigation into efforts to overturn the 2020 election.
 
Trump says he was given four days to report to the grand jury and indicated that he believes that means an arrest and indictment is imminent. His legal 
 
 team has not formally responded and sources tell CNN that they were caught off guard because they were not anticipating charges against the Former 
 
 President.
 
TRUMP: These are evil people deranged I call them deranged.
 
REID (voice over): CNN has learned in recent months, prosecutors have interviewed officials from all 7 2020 battleground states targeted by the 
 
 Former President and his allies in their efforts to overturn the election Trump's allies on Capitol Hill rushing to his defense.
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA): President Trump went up in the polls and was actually surpassing President Biden for reelection. So what do they do now? 
 
 Weaponize government.
 
REID (voice over): With the threat of yet another indictment looming Trump's lawyers appeared in a South Florida courtroom Tuesday to discuss 
 
 his indictment in the classified documents case where he is facing 37 felony counts.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
Trump Appointed Judge Eileen Cannon, signaling the Justice Department's desire to hold a trial in mid-December of this year maybe too soon, given 
 
 the highly sensitive nature of the case and the evidence that it's based on.
 
She did not appear though willing to delay the trial indefinitely, saying she plans to rule "Promptly". A trial starting in 2024 could collide with a 
 
 Republican presidential primary, where Trump is the current front runner, his rivals in the race now facing yet another round of questions in what 
 
 could be yet another indictment.
 
SEN. TIM SCOTT (R-SC): I think the DOJ continues to try to find a way to weaponize its powers. I guess the Former President.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: OK coming up, how AI is being used to change the way we sound and the implications for voice actors speak for themselves? Plus tensions 
 
 high in Kenya, we're live in Nairobi on the day of anti-government protests. That's next. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move". Coming soon to a screen near you not a lot Hollywood's come to a shuddering halt as actors and writers walk 
 
 off set in protest on a multitude of issues which perhaps threaten their future now you'll find top talent on strike and main picket lines from 
 
 coast to coast.
 
The New York City protests was actually near the Hudson Yards Offices of Warner Brothers Discovery that's the parent company of CNN. The impact of 
 
 streaming how contents used pay, of course and technologies like artificial intelligence are all on a long list of concerns.
 
Now before the strike the union unlisted Tom Cruise to lobby on behalf of members at least that's according to the Hollywood reporter. The report 
 
 says "The Mission Impossible" Star joined a negotiating session to discuss concerns about the use of AI to replace actors whether or not that's true, 
 
 we can't confirm.
 
But my next guest says he works closely with paid voice actors to create content for gaming streaming and socializing online. The company called 
 
 Voicemod describes itself as the world leader in providing AI powered voice synthesis and interactive audio with how 14 million downloads so far.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
That's a lot of big words. I think its best explained by this clip, just watch this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Without cutting edge AI voices technology.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You can transform your voice in real time. The choice is yours.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The possibilities are infinite.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sign up for the Voicemod beta and try our AI voices today.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Jaime Bosch is the CEO of Voicemod and joins us now. Great to have you on the show! I think that was a great illustration, but in your 
 
 own words, what you provide to customers and the technology behind it.
 
JAMIE BOSCH, CEO OF VOICEMOD: Well, thanks for having me. What we provide to our customers is basically we superpower people's voice. So we enable 
 
 them to have greater self-expression, creativity and inclusion.
 
CHATTERLEY: And it's in real time. So you can overlay a person's voice as they speak, as we saw that person there.
 
BOSCH: Exactly! So, one of the particularities of our technology, which makes it really hard is that it works in real time. So I can treat the 
 
 technology right now. And I can showcase it to you if you want.
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, let's do it.
 
BOSCH: OK, so I can, for example, pretend that I am Dean, still. Hello, I am Dean. I live in Sweden, and I'm a professional game developer. So I can 
 
 for example, so it's still Alice. Hey there. My name is Alice.
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, my goodness.
 
BOSCH: What is about -- or let's fix to Jerry. So my name is Jerry. I'm a voiceover actor. And I worked on many commercials to -- .
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, I can tell you Jerry, the voiceover actor is really quaking in his boots at that, quite frankly. Do you see an industry threat? Give me 
 
 your context on that?
 
BOSCH: Well, basically, Voicemod today is used for mainly gaming and entertainment purposes. So the main use cases that you will find on this 
 
 kind of technology is friends doing a gaming session together that wants to have fun to really express, them-selves.
 
And also, we think content creation, and streaming is a use case that is growing. As of today, I don't see like, in this kind of technology that is 
 
 working in real time, you always need to have a human as an input. So it's not that the AI is going to replace the actor or the person performing 
 
 because you still need to do a performance.
 
I'm not a good performer. But we do have some amazing people in the company that does performing. But the thing is that you still need the human factor 
 
 to create those voices, those acting. So at the end of the day, what we provide is a supercharged version of the voice.
 
CHATTERLEY: So it's gamers that are using his voice, as you say, when they're interacting with others. I've seen individuals respond to the 
 
 company on social media and say, actually, this is the voice now that I'm using to interact. And it makes me more confident it's a sort of brighter 
 
 version of my-self and I prefer this voice.
 
I can see huge positives to that if it gives people the lift that they're more confident to speak. I can also see downsides if in some way they're 
 
 hiding behind that voice because you're stuck with your real voice in real life.
 
BOSCH: Yes, I mean, the positive side of this inclusion is that we are having a lot of examples in our user base, which are basically people that 
 
 is not comfortable on speaking with their own voice. So they've been people living hiding in these digital worlds for many years behind an avatar.
 
They've been choosing they've been having the ability to choose the way they look. But they never had the ability to choose the way they sound. So 
 
 they feel more comfortable having a voice that matches the character. They are impersonating. Within the bad actors, even though the majority of our 
 
 user base uses Voicemod for, as I mentioned, self-expression, creativity and inclusion.
 
For the bad actors we acknowledge it can be. We are also working towards having tools and putting tools in place to make this technology safer. So 
 
 for example, we're working on our watermarking technology, and we're also working on a synthetic media detection in a joint venture with other 
 
 companies have the space to make these technologies safer for the users to use.
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, because you don't have that now. I go back to the voices that you were doing. And I got sidetracked by the voiceover person that you 
 
 were doing. But the young girl, actually, watching you speak in a young girl's voice. I think if I were a parent out there, I'd be deeply alarmed.
 
So at this stage, using your technology, if I were using it, I can't tell the difference between you being a young girl that I think I'm speaking to, 
 
 and you being a grown man, is that correct? And if so, how quickly can you make sure these things are watermarks? If people know who they're talking 
 
 to?
 
BOSCH: Well, we are currently working on this technology. And this will be available very soon. So this will be something that we will solve in the 
 
 near future.
 
CHATTERLEY: How soon? I'm pushing you.
 
BOSCH: Yes, I know, I noticed that so yes hopefully within this year.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, good. I'm going to hold you to that. And we're going to have another conversation like this. Talk to me about the future of 
 
 content, the content industry, though, because I can see how this is incredibly useful. As you said, its live hands up the experience if you're 
 
 gaming, or you're playing or you're interacting, but what about that translation to real life?
 
And you've said, look, there's always a person behind it, you're adapting something. But can you also see the concerns of the creativity industry and 
 
 those behind this that perhaps, as an actor your voice can be taken? Someone could use this technology for Tom Cruise, for example, and use his 
 
 voice?
 
BOSCH: Yes, I mean, we always have the angle of working with professional actors. I understand that what the concerns of the new technology are 
 
 deriving always there. I mean, new breakthroughs in technology make, and for example, governments need to do regulations.
 
In this case, for example, I believe that companies have to start self- regulate, and started to lead together as we are doing, for example, with this watermarking and these synthetic media detection with other companies 
 
 in the space.
 
CHATTERLEY: -- have to stop, can you there because John Kerry, a U.S. Climate Envoy, speaking in Beijing, and we have to listen to him. We'll 
 
 reconvene on this conversation. Sir, thank you. Let's listen in to John Kerry.
 
JOHN KERRY, U.S. CLIMATE ENVOY: -- meetings with a lot to catch up on. We had very frank conversations. But we came here to break new ground, which 
 
 we think is important at this stage. And it is clear that we are going to need a little more work to be able to complete that task, which we still 
 
 believe both of us is doable.
 
There are a lot of things that we very clearly agreed on after all this time. But there are also some issues that are going to have to be resolved 
 
 that are going to take a little more time. We used as a baseline for this meeting. The meeting that took place between President Biden and President 
 
 Xi in Bali, Indonesia, where the two leaders agreed to work jointly and together with other countries to address the climate crisis.
 
We both agreed to continue bilateral engagement to address this climate crisis. And we both agreed as a matter of urgency, and in recognition of 
 
 the global and existential nature of this threat. We both agreed to continue this bilateral a great effort particularly agreeing on the 
 
 language that we are deeply disturbed by the current urgency that grows by the day and because of the global and existential nature of this challenge.
 
We are both deeply alarmed by the best available science and the findings. We also agreed that we agree with the scientific findings including the 
 
 IPCC Sixth Assessment Report, recognizing that the climate crisis is increasingly affected people and countries around the world.
 
We both remain committed to fully implementing the U.S.-China joint statement addressing the climate crisis and the U.S.-China joint Glasgow 
 
 Declaration on enhancing climate action in the 2020s.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
And we both agreed that we want to work together to guarantee a positive outcome from COP28 where obviously the co-operation of China and the United 
 
 States is critical to any outcome. So we also agreed to work intensively in the weeks ahead. This is not a one off meeting.
 
We are already pinpointing the time for our next meeting. And then even the next one after that, recognizing that we have only about four months before 
 
 the COP, and we have to make up a certain amount of time for the period that this discussion has not been taking place.
 
We agreed to work intensively on those meetings and to set goals and make sure that we have a work product that has jumped through the hoops in both 
 
 of our countries, so that it can be approved and we can move forward. We agreed in the next weeks that our next meeting will take place.
 
And among the topics to discuss will be the scaling and integrating of renewable energy into a power sector in order to be able to reduce coal 
 
 emissions, and also to address non-Co2 greenhouse gas emissions, including informing the development of 2035 and the seas that are supposed to be 
 
 submitted in 2025.
 
And we view this as a very important discussion which took a fair amount of time in the course of these days. So that's the basic outline of where we 
 
 are. And I'm happy to take a few questions.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: First question comes from Keith Rhetoric, New York Times.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK, Secretary John Kerry there, the U.S. Climate Envoy speaking after talks with Chinese officials on progress and how the two nations can 
 
 work together. We're talking about the two largest emitters of fossil fuels, also the two largest investors, of course, in renewable energies as 
 
 well.
 
The question is, how can they work better together, he was keen to emphasize that this would be an ongoing bilateral effort that they agreed 
 
 on much of the language but there's still much work to do using language like, deeply alarmed by the best available science that is indicating the 
 
 damage that climate change is doing, including agreeing on the IPCC Assessment Report.
 
I think any degree of agreement between these two nations on this fact is an important step. He was also keen to emphasize that those catch up to be 
 
 done a head of COP28 four months to go and that there will be ongoing meetings between the Americans and the Chinese officials into that.
 
And hopefully some form of greater agreement to ramp up renewable investment and reduce coal use, of course, which we've seen China do in 
 
 recent months, and Europeans too, just to be clear, but we have seen that from China. And that's certainly been a sore point in these discussions. 
 
 We'll take a break. We're back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move" and just into CNN the Founder of the Wagner group has appeared in a video apparently greeting his fighters 
 
 in Belarus. It was posted on pro-Wagner Telegram channels, which was shared by Yevgeny Prigozhin's account.
 
It's the first time he's been seen in public since leading a military uprising last month. CNN is working to verify where and when the video was 
 
 shot. Joining us now Clare Sebastian, we just heard from the Chief of -- saying that Prigozhin was floating about if this is true, he may have 
 
 floated into Belarus.
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, joining legions teams of his fighters who we had seen on satellite imagery and convoys moving towards 
 
 and in some cases arriving at that base over the course of this week. Julia, we don't know as you said where exactly this video was shot or when?
 
But the content is extremely interesting Yevgeny Prigozhin seen addressing what seems to be quite a large number of troops. What he says is that they 
 
 fought with dignity. They did a lot for Russia. He says what's happening now at the front is a disgrace that they don't need to take part in.
 
So he says for the time being, they're going to be stationed in Belarus. The plan is to make the Belarusian army, he says the second in the world if 
 
 necessary, Wagner will stand with them. He says and then you know they will prepare themselves they're essentially reformed themselves and go on 
 
 another journey.
 
He says to Africa, at which point they'll return back when he says that they'll be confident enough, they will not be asked to make an 
 
 embarrassment of ourselves and our experience. So this is not a Prigozhin, cowed and shamed by any experience of the last month also.
 
This is a Prigozhin seems more defiant than ever, who seems to be in back in control of his private military company, as it were and, you know, 
 
 making plans to be moving forward extraordinary to see this after 25 days of essentially not having any evidence at all of his whereabouts since that 
 
 aborted mutiny on the road to Moscow, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, certainly, to your point punchy comments as well and willing to say exactly what he thinks in particular still about the war in 
 
 Ukraine. We'll see. We'll aim to get him further verification of that video too. Clare Sebastian, thank you. Now our youthful population and a rich 
 
 startup culture are helping propel Nairobi, Kenya to the top tier of Africa's growing tech scene. Eleni Giokos reports on one firm's exciting 
 
 success story in today's "Connecting Africa".
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN HOST OF CONNECTING AFRICA (on camera): I'm in Nairobi and markets like this across Africa, of the lifeblood of the continent. In 
 
 fact, informal traders are what make things take and work and the question has always remained how to formalize the informal and technology might just 
 
 be the solution to propel this industry into a new economic reality.
 
GIOKOS (voice over): Known by some as the Silicon Savannah, Nairobi is becoming an increasingly important player in the international tech scene. 
 
 Adanian Labs is just one example of local tech success here founded in Kenya and active across several African countries. Adanian is on a mission 
 
 to cultivate startups in the technology field.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
IRENE KIWIA, CO-FOUNDER OF ADANIAN LABS: So we're a technology company, a Pan African technology company. And what really founded us was our mission 
 
 to actuate the tech revolution on the continent, by making sure that Africans are active and proactive participants in the Fourth Industrial 
 
 Revolution.
 
I mean, the good thing about Africa, Kenya, and you know, Sub-Saharan Africa is a young continent, right? So there are a lot of vibrant young 
 
 people, and they're all looking to create value for themselves, create wealth for themselves. Unfortunately, Africa as a continent has so many 
 
 things that are a challenge, but that's where the opportunity is.
 
So technology allows us to leapfrog things in a way that we're not able to do before. If you look at the African history, we've missed the Industrial 
 
 Revolution. We've missed a couple of things. But for the first time ever, we have a technology revolution, where we are able to create impact and 
 
 change the status quo of this continent. And the young people are the people who are going to do that.
 
GIOKOS (on camera): So you've been around for three years, and you've already made such big headway. Firstly, did you anticipate that you would 
 
 grow so fast? And I guess, what is the future for you? What are you seeing coming up?
 
KIWIA: Yes, it's been an exciting three years and I think we've managed to do all this because of also the place where we have decided to go to market 
 
 from. I mean, we build the company from Kenya. If you look at what's happening in Africa, Kenya is becoming a hub of tech for the continent.
 
So I think that was very, very key and the future is absolutely exciting. We are building the largest tech company on this continent and by ledges I 
 
 mean in terms of the impact that will create across sectors but also the fact that you know, our aim is to digitize this 80 percent.
 
You know the SME ecosystems and build a connected Africa a borderless Africa, so I'm extremely excited.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for watching. I'll see you tomorrow "Marketplace Europe" is up next, stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(MARKETPLACE EUROPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END