Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Evacuees Traveling To Port Sudan To Escape Violence; Rockets Fired At Israel After Death Of Khader Adnan; Texas Suspect Captured After Manhunt, Found Hiding In Closet; U.K. Intelligence: Russia Has Built Sprawling Network Of Trenches, Fearing Ukrainian Counteroffensive; U.S. Braces For Surge Of Migrants As Title 42 Ends; U.S. Braces for Surge of Migrants as Title 42 Ends; Late-Night Shows Go Dark as Strike Begins. Aired 12-12:45a ET

Aired May 03, 2023 - 00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:00:52]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Ahead on CNN NEWSROOM, a seven-day ceasefire agreed to in Sudan, and if history is prologue, set to be ignored by rival military factions from Thursday. 
 
Protests in the West Bank rocket fire from Gaza after a leader of the militant group Islamic Jihad dies on a hunger strike in an Israeli prison. 
 
And with Ukraine's counter-offensive imminent, Russia digs in, literally, with the most complicated and extensive network of trenches ever seen since World War II. 
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with John Vause. 
 
VAUSE: Thanks for joining us. We begin with an agreement in principle to a new ceasefire in Sudan between rival military factions battling for control of the country. 
 
Notably, the announcement came from South Sudan, which has been acting as a mediator between both sides. But, so far, no public comment from either Sudan's military or the Rapid Support Forces. 
 
But under this agreement, a seven-day long truce will take effect Thursday. Officials from South Sudan also say both sides have agreed to send representatives to peace talks. But where and when those talks will happen is yet to be decided. 
 
Six ceasefire so far, at best bringing a lull in the conflict, but the sound of gunfire and explosions continues to be heard, especially in the capital Khartoum. 
 
More than 500 people are confirmed dead in more than two weeks of fighting. But with bodies left piling up in the streets, the real death toll is certain to be much higher. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANNA SERWAA TETTEH, U.N. SPECIAL ENVOY FOR HORN OF AFRICA: The situation in Sudan remains a matter of deep concern as the parties continue their fight. Civilians bear the brunt of this conflict. Critical infrastructure, hospitals, roads, schools, airports have been destroyed. 
 
This war has aggravated the already dire humanitarian situation and shortages of food, water, medicines and other basic goods are becoming extremely acute. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: While 100,000 Sudanese refugees have now fled to neighboring countries according to the U.N., many crossed into Chad before the border with Sudan was closed. Many others are heading to South Sudan. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OLGA SARRADO MUR, SPOKESPERSON, U.N. REFUGEE AGENCY: Over 100,000 refugees are estimated to be among those who have now crossed to neighboring countries, including Sudanese refugees, South Sudanese returning and other nationalities who were themselves refugees in Sudan. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Before escaping Sudan, for thousands of Sudanese and foreign nationals, first they must make a dangerous and often harrowing road trip to Port Sudan on the Red Sea. 
 
Once there, for a fortunate few, comes rescue by ship. Saudi Arabia has played a central role in the evacuations, carrying more than 5,600 people foreign nationals from Sudan since the start of the conflict, including dozens of Americans. 
 
CNN's Larry Madowo reports now from Jeddah. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): As the news of the latest ceasefire trickled here into Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, the 15th Saudi round ship just arrived here with 206 more people, 91 Americans according to the Saudi foreign ministry. The number of nationalities have so far ferried across from Port Sudan to Jeddah is now 102. 
 
The only tiny percentage of those are Saudis. Many of them are from nationalities from the U.S. and Canada and the U.K. and Sudan and Kenya, Burkina Faso, from really everywhere around the world. 
 
So, as the ceasefire really struggles to hold, you see the need for so many people still in Port Sudan trying to get across the Red Sea to a semblance of safety here in Saudi Arabia as they figure out where they're going to go next. KHOJELLI EL-NOOR, EVACUEE FROM SUDAN: See, just my body here, but my
 
 heart and my blood and my mind is over there. Because this division is really scary, you cannot even describe it. 
 
And you know, as an example, you see dead people, we cannot bury them. 
 
MADOWO: The ceasefire itself still has a couple of options for the two warring generals in Sudan to back out of it. They say they've agreed in principle. That's the statement according to President Salva Kiir of South Sudan. He was appointed by the regional body, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, to spearhead this negotiation process of the two generals. The others were President Ruto of Kenya and President Guelleh of Djibouti. 
 <br>[00:05:00]
 
And so, that in principle is doing a lot of heavy lifting in that statement. The other one is that he's urging General Burhan and General Hemedti to send negotiating teams and to agree on where that could be. 
 
One of the proposed venues for this negotiation could be here in Saudi Arabia. Could it be Addis Ababa in Ethiopia or Narobi in Kenya or Juba South Sudan? There's just a lot of questions still. We don't know about this seven day ceasefire that was announced. 
 
Larry Madowo, CNN, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Joining us now is Nicole Widdersheim, Deputy Washington Director for Human Rights Watch. Thanks for being with us again. 
 
NICOLE WIDDERSHEIM, DEPUTY WASHINGTON DIRECTOR, HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH: Thanks for having me. 
 
VAUSE: You bet. Now, it seems there's still a lot of uncertainty over these peace talks which are being, you know, hosted by South Sudan or proposed by South Sudan. There's not a lot of faith also in this seven day ceasefire that they're talking about. 
 
I want you to listen to a special envoy to Sudan from the Intergovernmental Authority on Development. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISMAIL WAIS, SPECIAL ENVOY, INTERGOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY ON DEVELOPMENT: The two generals, even though they accept ceasefire, but at the same time they continue fighting and shelling the city. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: 22 words which summed up the problem here. So, assuming the two generals are still in control of their fighters, until they give the order for their troops to stand down, does this crisis just go from bad to worse to disaster? WIDDERSHEIM: Yes, I mean, we really haven't seen any true ceasefire
 
 despite the fragile ceasefire that were 24 hours, 48 hours, they've all been broken. 
 
And then in the last couple days, we've seen an actual uptick in airstrikes and more RSF militia on the streets. 
 
So, it seems like the violence is actually increasing. That might be part of them preparing to go into some kind of dialogue. We have no idea if this is truly a political dialogue, you know, this announcement is so fresh. 
 
But we're -- you know, we're very cautious and the true test will be if humanitarian assistance can get into the city because that's really what we're interested in. 
 
VAUSE: Yes, and as for the talks, those talks which maybe they are political, maybe they are genuine, they are -- maybe they will address humanitarian crisis, but so far there's no date when. No word on who will be going if they'll be speaking directly to one another. 
 
And as this continues to go on, the number of internally displaced continues to grow. Listen to the U.N. representative. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAUL DILLON, SPOKESMAN, INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR MIGRATION: The number of displaced people through the last two weeks exceeds as a result of conflict, exceeds all conflict related displacements reported in Sudan in 2022. Just to give you a sense of the scale of the movement since April 15th. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: There seems to be this disconnect between international diplomacy where there's sort of plenty of time, no real urgency. They'll eventually get round to these peace talks when they do. And the reality, what's happening on the ground that thousands of being forced from their homes in a crisis getting worse by the hour. 
 
How do you bring these two things together?
 
WIDDERSHEIM: Right, I think what we need to see is a complete and very aggressive humanitarian response. And that is just not happening. 
 
We're also not seeing the diplomacy putting any pressure points on these -- on these warring actors. So we've been calling for an arms embargo for the full country at the United Nations Security Council. We haven't even seen them come up with a resolution on Sudan. 
 
We're also calling for the Human Rights Council that they develop a mechanism to document these violations in crimes and indiscriminate attacks. They're still waiting for the Human Rights Council to meet on Sudan. 
 
So, you know, they may be having -- the region might be able to pressure the parties to come up with this truce, but there should be a concerted effort -- concerted effort at the same time on the humanitarian crisis and the reality on the ground, as you say. 
 
VAUSE: Well, around the world, there remains a high level of concern about Sudan. Here's a snapshot of what they were saying on Tuesday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FAHAD NAZER, SPOKESPERSON FOR SAUDI EMBASSY IN U.S.: We have called for a calm. We have called for a ceasefire. We have called for an escalation. 
 
MELANIE JOLY, CANADIAN FOREIGN AFFAIRS MINISTER: It is important that people in Sudan have access to food, to water, to medicine. 
 
ALFRED MUTUA, KENYAN FOREIGN AFFAIRS MINISTER: Kenya remains ready to host talks aimed at stabilizing Sudan. 
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: The SAF and also the RSF must follow safe access for humanitarian agencies and their workers to support the Sudanese people. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: You know, when all is said and done, a lot more is going to be said than done, it seems. And right now, it seems the time is over for talking. It's time for doing. 
 
And to your point, there's a lot of interest around the world. There's a lot of people saying the right things, but they're not actually doing anything. 
 
WIDDERSHEIM: Yes, that's right. I mean, it's kind of reflective of the rhetoric that was going on over the last two years where they said they were moving towards a civilian-led government. All the time, these parties were planning for a war. 
 <br>[00:10:06]
 
So, you know, we're very cautious of believing in the well-meaning rhetoric and the condemnation, and we want to see action on the ground. There are roughly seven to 10 million people in Khartoum. Airstrikes are up-ticking, and people do not have food and water. 
 
It's nice to hear diplomats and international people -- international spokespeople talk about the need. They need -- we need to see this pouring into the country. 
 
VAUSE: Yes, they know what needs to be done, they just has -- they just has to get done at this point. Nicole, thank you for being with us. We appreciate it. 
 
WIDDERSHEIM: Thanks again. 
 
VAUSE: Cross-border rocket fire and airstrikes have erupted between Palestinians in Gaza and Israelis after a leader with the militant group Islamic Jihad died on a hunger strike in an Israeli jail. 
 
That brought a barrage of rocket fire from Gaza soon followed by Israeli airstrikes. The latest now from CNN's Hadas Gold reporting in from Jerusalem. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): At least 22 rockets were fired from Gaza into Israel on Tuesday by Palestinian militants who said that they were doing this in response to the death of Khader Adnan, a prominent Palestinian prisoner who was found dead in his cell Tuesday morning after a more than 86 day hunger strike. 
 
Now, at least three people were injured by this rocket fire, including 125-year-old man who was seriously injured by shrapnel. That's according to Israeli emergency medical authorities.
 
And the militant factions in Gaza directly connecting these dozens of rockets to Khader Adnan's death, saying that these rockets were what they call just a preliminary response to what they said was a heinous crime. 
 
Now, Khader Adnan is a former spokesperson for the militant group Palestinian Islamic Jihad. He had been arrested at least 10 times by the Israeli authorities since 2004 and this was not his first hunger strike. He had been on at least five other hunger strikes in 2004. 
 
But this morning, the Israeli prison authorities saying that they found Adnan unconscious in his cell this morning and they said that he had been refusing medical treatment as a result of his hunger strike. 
 
Now, the Islamic Jihad group saying that as a result of what they said was Adnan's martyrdom, they had promoted him to be a commander in Islamic Jihad and aside from the reaction of the rockets that we saw from Gaza, there is also a general strike called across the entire West Bank and Gaza meaning that everything from shops to schools are closed down as a result of Adnan's death and he had really just become a symbol, the face of Palestinian resistance and especially for the thousands of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prison. 
 
But what's interesting is Adnan's wife actually in a statement to the media said that she did not want to see rockets fired as a result of her husband's death. Take a listen. 
 
RANDA MUSA, MIFE OF KHADER ADNAN (through translator): Not a drop of blood was spilled during the previous prisoner's hunger strikes and today we say with the rise of the martyr and his accomplishment of what he wished for, we do not want a drop of blood to be spilled. We do not want someone to respond to his martyrdom. We do not want rockets to be launched and then for Gaza to be struck. 
 
GOLD: The Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh accusing Israel of what he said was a deliberate assassination as a result of Adnan's death. He said he also claimed that the Israeli authorities neglected him medically. Adnan was being held under what's called administrative detention
 
 which meant that he had not yet seen trial or charges yet. This is often something that Israeli authorities use they say for security reasons. There are at least a thousand prisoners who are in this sort of administrative detention, Palestinian prisoners in this administrative detention in Israeli prisons and the Palestinian Prisoner Society say that that is at its highest number since 2003. 
 
Hadas Gold, CNN, Jerusalem. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: A security scare outside Buckingham Palace just days before the coronation of King Charles III. Police arrested a man who allegedly tossed shotgun cartridges into the palace grounds. They also destroyed his bag in a controlled explosion. 
 
Neither King Charles nor Queen Camilla were in residence at Buckingham Palace at the time of the arrest. Security is tightening ahead of Saturday's coronation. 
 
The suspect in the fatal shooting of five people including a mother and her 9-year-old son in Texas was arrested Tuesday evening. Authorities say 38-year-old Francisco Oropeza was caught hiding in a closet under laundry at a home just miles from the house where the killings took place. He was captured after the FBI received a tip on his location. 
 
Oropeza is being held on five counts of murder with Bond set at $5 million. He will appear before a magistrate in San Jacinto County in the coming hours. CNN's Josh Campbell has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (on camera): A major development in southeast Texas authorities announcing Tuesday the arrest of the man accused of brutally murdering five people. Authorities say that 38-year-old Francisco Oropeza was taken into custody without incident. He is charged with opening fire on the home of his neighbors after being asked to stop shooting late at night on Friday. That of course sparking a massive manhunt involving hundreds of law enforcement officers in Texas as well as authorities in Mexico. 
 <br>[00:15:05]
 
Sources told CNN that authorities along the U.S.-Mexico border had been on alert concerned that the suspect may try to flee in the state but ultimately authorities say that they arrested him just less than 25 kilometers from the original crime scene. The sheriff there in Texas spoke about the arrest. 
 
SHERIFF GREG CAPERS, SAN JACINTO COUNTY, TEXAS: Bottom line is we now have this man in custody. He was caught hiding in a closet underneath some laundry. They effectively made the arrest. He is uninjured. 
 
CAMPBELL: Authorities had announced an $80,000 reward for information leading to Oropeza's capture. The FBI said Tuesday that an unidentified tipster called the FBI providing them with the location where he was ultimately taken into custody by tactical officers without incident. He is currently being held on $5 million bond, the sheriff saying that he faces five counts of murder. 
 
Josh Campbell, CNN, Los Angeles. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Still ahead here on CNN, the trenches say it all. U.K. intelligence has new details about Russian defenses and Moscow's fear of a major breakthrough. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Growing signs of what could be an increase in Ukrainian operations deep inside Russia and Russian occupied territory. A Moscow-backed official in the city of Melitopol was wounded by what appears to be an explosive device in his front yard. A police chief was killed last week in a similar incident which Russia called sabotage by a reconnaissance group. 
 
And a second Russian freight train has derailed this week in Russia's Bryansk region. The governor blames an explosive device again. No one was killed in either derailment. 
 
Meantime, the latest U.K. intelligence shows Russian forces have built what's considered the most complex, extensive network of trenches in Europe since World War II in both southern Russia and occupied Ukraine. 
 
The defense ministry says the defense highlights Moscow's deep concern that Ukraine could achieve a major breakthrough with its planned counter-offensive. 
 
Joining me now from Washington, retired U.S. Air Force Colonel and CNN Military Analyst Cedric Leighton. It's been a while, Sir, it's good to see you. 
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Good to see you too, John. 
 
VAUSE: OK, so if the trenches are a reflection of Russia's biggest fear, then it seems safe to assume that Russia fears losing Crimea the most given the concentration of those defensive fortifications. Is that the line essentially for Vladimir Putin? 
 
LEIGHTON: It does seem to be at least one of his lines (AUDIO GAP). A recent video of what he's been doing, John, is he is actually moving some forces into Crimea. He is also putting defensive positions up in places like in Medvedevka, which is a small town that is a critical point of approach should Crimean -- should Ukrainian forces get close to Crimea. 
 <br>[00:20:06] So, this is one of those key areas where Putin is basically making a stand, and I think that would be a make or break point for him at this -- at this juncture. 
 
VAUSE: There's also this reported 45-mile-long mega trench around Zaporizhzhia. The Zaporizhzhia area far from the front lines. According to the U.K. defense ministry, since summer 2022, Russia has constructed some of the most extensive systems of military defensive work seen anywhere in the world for many decades. These defenses are not just near the current front lines, but have also been dug deep inside areas Russia currently controls. 
 
You know, as a general rule, if you're winning a war in victories within reach, is it usual to stop and dig hundreds of miles of trenches behind your front lines? 
 
LEIGHTON: Not at all. If you're winning a war, you're moving forward. You're basically taking the advantage to the enemy and trying to rout the enemy with a mobile war. This has been anything but a mobile war in recent months. 
 
And what this shows is that Russian proclivity not only for a war of attrition, but also to get rid of the defense in case the Ukrainians do mount their counter-offensive. 
 
VAUSE: Yes, and all of this is a facial counter-offensive. Britain's Independent newspaper reporting this. Ukraine's Interior Minister has said that eight storm brigades comprising out to 40,000 troops are being re-equipped as Ukraine prepares to launch counter offensive against Moscow's invasion. 
 
Apparently, one of the big factors here remains the weather, but we're now into May. If this offensive could begin any time, have the Ukrainians have enough time to prepare? Has there been enough time for training on the new weapons or the new tanks, on the new armored vehicles? 
 
When it begins, would you expect to see the Ukrainian version of shock and awe? 
 
LEIGHTON: Well, the one piece that would be missing from a shock and awe-style campaign would be aircraft. The Ukrainians, of course, are asking for F-16s. Those F-16s will -- it's highly unlikely that they would be utilizing any time soon in Ukraine and in time for this offensive.
 
However, there are some weapons that are coming in the latest U.S. arms package to Ukraine, which are air to ground munitions. And those, of course, are going to be employed by aircraft, probably the aircraft that Ukraine already has. 
 
VAUSE: As far as the training, though, on the tanks, because that's going to be the key here for the Ukrainians and those tanks are faster to the Russian tanks. So, how's that going to play out in the early stages, especially? LEIGHTON: Yes, I think that's going to work out pretty well, because
 
 both in the U.K. with the Challenger tanks and with the Leopard tanks in Germany and from other European countries, the Ukrainians have had some time to prepare themselves for these tanks and to use them and deploy them in a way that will help them really fight a battle of maneuvers. 
 
So, we could see a major tank battle really take place here in the eastern part of Ukraine, possibly in the southern part of Ukraine, and that would be something that we haven't seen in this part of the world since the 1940s. 
 
VAUSE: And finally, we have this assessment by U.S. intelligence of 100,000 Russian troops dead, I think since December. That seems an incredibly high number. The Kremlin has dismissed this as just a made up number. How do you see it? 
 
LEIGHTON: I don't think it's completely made up. It's very hard, of course, to estimate the total casualties, but it does ring true to me that this number of total casualties would be pretty accurate given the number that have died in places like Bakhmuth that we're pretty certain of and also in places like Avdiivka, which is also on the front line. 
 
So, it seems to me that the Russians probably lost somewhere between 20 and 25,000 dead and 100,000 wounded or otherwise combat ineffective. 
 
VAUSE: Dead and wounded, they weren't all dead. Good point to finish on. Thank you for the correction there, Sir. Appreciate it. 
 
LEIGHTON: No problem. Absolutely, John. 
 
VAUSE: Well, when it comes to Russia, the match group is ready to swipe left. The online dating company behind Tinder, Hinge, OK Cupid and others, is pulling its services out of Russia by the end of June. 
 
Today's Russia's human rights record for the move, joining the massive list of Western companies that have bailed on Russia since the war in Ukraine began. 
 
On both sides of the U.S.-Mexican border, thousands of migrants are camping in the streets. Many more are coming, we'll explain why. And why advocate for the migrants says this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: How would you characterize what you're seeing right now?
 
JOHN MARTIN, THE OPPORTUNITY CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS: Scary.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:26:50]
 
VAUSE: Welcome back. I'm John Vause, you're watching CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Uganda's parliament has passed a slightly amended version of its draconian and internationally condemned anti-gay bill. 
 
Under the changes, the bill identifying as gay or lesbian will not be outlawed as it was originally. The bill still calls for the death penalty for what it calls, "Aggravated homosexuality", which includes sex with a minor or having sex while HIV positive. 
 
Same-sex relations are outlawed in Uganda and the president is expected to sign this bill into law. 
 
Two surges are coming to the U.S.-Mexican border as a key government rule expires. One is an expected massive influx of migrants. The other is hundreds more U.S. troops to help manage them. 
 
Thousands of Central and South American migrants are camped out right now in numerous cities on both sides of the border. They're anticipating the end of Title 42 on May 11th. That's the rule that enabled the U.S. government to automatically expel migrants during the COVID pandemic. Some have reportedly been told erroneously that the border will be wide open after that. 
 
The Biden administration sending 1,500 U.S. troops to help free up Homeland Security officials to deal with this surge in migrants. That's in addition to 2,500 troops already deployed. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIG. GEN. PAT RYDER, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: What we're focused on is supporting DHS. They are clearly in the lead when it comes to border security. They reached out to the Department of Defense to request some support in order to fill these critical capability gaps. 
 
And again, we are temporarily deploying these forces to support DHS so that they can do their mission, their law enforcement mission, while our folks are there in the rear assisting with some of those administrative type tasks that we talked about. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: The mayor of El Paso, Texas has declared a state of emergency as the number of migrants in his city swells and overwhelms agencies and organizations trying to help them. 
 
CNN's Rosa Flores is in El Paso, Texas following this report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FLORES (voice-over): The city of El Paso under a state of emergency. As hundreds of migrants camp outside shelters, on the streets, and alleys and parking lots ahead of the lifting of the pandemic-era rule known as Title 42, which allows immigration agents to swiftly expel some migrants to Mexico. How would you characterize what you're seeing right now?
 
MARTIN: Scary.
 
FLORES: John Martin runs the Opportunity Center for the Homeless and says the surge started last Tuesday, when 70 migrant started camping outside. Now, nearly 700 total.
 
MARTIN: We haven't had the opportunity to come out here and actually talk to each of these folks one by one.
 
FLORES: Because so many have arrived so quickly?
 
MARTIN: Exactly.
 
FLORES: And the flow of migrants? Arriving by train to Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, across the border from El Paso, is growing, too, say officials. CNN was there in April.
 
Were you coming on the train?
 
FLORES: As migrants like Emerson Duarte (PH) from Nicaragua jumped off the train with his four children and his wife.
 
She says her children haven't eaten in 4 days. The Duartes are part of a large group of migrants who are arriving in northern Mexico and staying on the streets, in hotels, or migrant shelters.
 <br>[00:30:07]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
FLORES (voice-over): Like this one. The pain of the migrant struggle, palpable during church service. 
 
Elado Garcia (ph) embraces his two boys and says he and his wife couldn't live in their native Nicaragua anymore. 
 
ELADO GARCIA (PH), MIGRANT: It is difficult and dangerous to me. 
 
FLORES (voice-over): Especially after he protested against his government in 2018. Garcia (ph) shows us -- 
 
GARCIA (ph): A small shot.
 
FLORES (voice-over): He still has a pellet in his arm, which he says came from Nicaraguan security forces. 
 
Nearly 40,000 migrants are in Northern Mexico, according to officials and community leaders. In Tijuana, about 9,000 are waiting. 
 
In Reynosa and Matamoros, more than 17,000, and in Ciudad Juarez, up to 12,000. 
 
Their desire to seek asylum in the U.S. varies. For this woman from Guatemala, it was gang threats, and her son's death. For the family getting off the train -- 
 
FLORES: She says that they left Nicaragua because of political oppression there. 
 
FLORES (voice-over): Back in El Paso, if this time lapse of a walk around one city block is a preamble. 
 
FLORES: About how long can you go based on the resources that you have? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Best guess right now, estimating Friday. 
 
FLORES (voice-over): Community leaders say the end of Title 42 could be one for the history books. 
 
FLORES: Now take a look around me. You can see that there are hundreds of migrants here in the streets of El Paso, which the obvious question is, if Title 42 is still in effect, which means that immigration agents are able to swiftly return migrants back to Mexico, then why are they so many migrants in the United States? 
 
Here's the answer. From talking to both migrants and officials on both sides of the border, they tell me, because there's tens of thousands of migrants who are waiting in Northern Mexican cities, a lot of them have lost patience. Some of them have turned themselves into immigration authorities. Others have simply crossed illegally. 
 
Rosa Flores, CNN, El Paso, Texas.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: The Australian government will ban recreational use of e-cigarettes to discourage vaping, especially among teenagers.
 
It's the biggest smoking reform in more than a decade for Australia. Under the regulations, a ban will be placed on importing non- prescription vapes, and packaging for vape products will be required to look more like pharmaceutical goods and sold only as a product to help smokers quit. 
 
Single-use and disposable vapes will be banned. Colored, flavored packs that were appealing to younger users will also be restricted. 
 
Figures show that, in Australia, like many other countries, vapes are disproportionately used by young people. 
 
Still ahead, late-night television shows go dark. Thousands of film and TV writers began their strike. The latest on the impasse. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: In the coming hours, the U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates again for the second time this year, though that comes with an asterisk. 
 
It comes just days after the collapse of the First Republic Bank, the second biggest bank failure in U.S. history. 
 
[00:35:0]
 
Analysts believe the bank's collapse was caused by the central bank's aggressive and sudden yearlong rate-hiking campaign. JPMorgan Chase acquired the failed bank over the weekend under a federal deal, but that has not calmed nerves on Wall Street. 
 
U.S. stocks fell steeply again Tuesday, investors fearful that turmoil in the banking sector has still not been contained. The Dow, NASDAQ, S&amp;P 500 were all down by more than 1 percent. A lot more than it was yesterday. 
 
Popular television shows in the U.S. have gone dark and airing repeat episodes just hours after thousands of TV and film writers went on strike. 
 
This comes after weeks-long negotiations collapsed with production companies over pay and other issues like artificial intelligence and screenwriting. 
 
CNN's Brian Todd has details, reporting in now from Washington. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): NBC's late-night host Seth Meyers recently told his audience of the grim possibility. 
 
SETH MEYERS, HOST, NBC'S "LATE NIGHT WITH SETH MEYERS": It is something that is not done lightly, and that I will be heartbroken to miss you, as well. 
 
TODD (voice-over): CBS's Stephen Colbert spoke of how important the rioters are to his show. 
 
STEPHEN COLBERT, HOST, CBS'S "THE LATE SHOW WITH STEPHEN COLBERT": Without these people, this show would be called "The Late Show with a Guy Rambling About 'The Lord Of The Rings' and Boats for an Hour." 
 
TODD (voice-over): But those late-night shows hosted by Colbert, Meyers, Jimmy Kimmel, and Jimmy Fallon are among the first casualties, as more than 11,000 movie and TV writers are now on strike. 
 
The Writers Guild of America voting to walk out after several weeks of negotiations with a group representing companies like Netflix, Amazon, Apple, Disney, NBC Universal, Paramount, and CNN's parent company, Warner Brothers Discovery. 
 
DOMINIC PATTEN, SENIOR EDITOR, "DEADLINE HOLLYWOOD": You're going to see that on films also currently in production with writers, that's going to stop. 
 
TODD (voice-over): The last time the writers went on strike, in 2007, they left for 100 days, leading to delays in production for months. 
 
Some of the late-night shows are the first to go into re-runs, because they're more dependent on writers, the shows written the same day they air. 
 
JIMMY FALLON, HOST, NBC'S "THE TONIGHT SHOW STARRING JIMMY FALLON": I'm actually in the Writers Guild, as well, so yes, I couldn't do the show without them. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Daytime shows, soap operas, and other popular programs will soon follow. 
 
DARRELL HAMMOND, ANNOUNCER: It's "Saturday Night Live." 
 
TODD (voice-over): NBC announcing that "Saturday Night Live" will air repeats until further notice. 
 
What are they fighting over? One sticking point is money. Many writers say, because streaming has changed the industry so much, they're making less than they were a decade ago. 
 
DAVID MANDEL, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER, HBO'S "WHITE HOUSE PLUMBERS": Unfortunately, we have a situation where too many writers, certainly that I know, my contemporaries, guys in their 50s, women in their 50s, who all of a sudden, even though this is supposed to be peak television, are not making a living, like are worrying about, like, how they're going to, like, pay their mortgage and stuff. 
 
TODD (voice-over): Analysts say writers are also worried about being replaced by computers writing scripts, using artificial intelligence. 
 
SARA FISCHER, CNN MEDIA ANALYST: I think that a lot of writers feel as though, with A.I. coming in, they might get really, really small gigs, and so they want to make sure that they have a minimum duration of work and a minimum pay guarantee. 
 
TODD (voice-over): How will the strike affect some streaming favorites like Apple+'s "Ted Lasso"? 
 
JASON SUDEIKIS, ACTOR: I think that's what it's all about, embracing change.
 
PATTEN: You're still going to see those shows come out week after week, because they were delivered months ago to those studios and those companies. All the streamers have kind of bragged that they have a bunch of shows in the pipeline going forward. 
 
TODD: But industry analysts say, if the strike goes on for a couple of months, the fall TV schedule will be affected, because right now in May and June is when the writers are actually writing those shows, so they can film them in July and August. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) VAUSE: Three days now from the coronation of Britain's King Charles, and we had the first look at the ceremony. Well, more of a glimpse, really.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(MUSIC)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Rehearsals took place in central London in the early hours of Wednesday morning under the cover of darkness. Royal fans watched on as hundreds of soldiers, many on horseback, marched from Buckingham Palace to Westminster Abbey. 
 
They accompanied the Diamond Jubilee state coach, which will carry the king. I think that was donated by Australia.
 
And then, of course, the Stone of Destiny has left Edinburgh Castle in Scotland for the first time in 25 years. It is now heading for London. The Stone of Destiny.
 
Buckingham Palace says the true figures relating to the cost of the coronation will be made public in due course. This comes after questions were raised over the money spent on the state event during Britain's cost of living crisis. 
 
In a statement on Tuesday, a palace spokesman said, "One of the lessons from the late Majesty's funeral was how a national occasion like this does attract huge global interest that more than repays the expenditure that goes with it."
 
Before the crowning of King Charles many are asking what this moment and this man mean in a modern world. This week on "THE WHOLE STORY," CNN's Erica Hill asked those questions to some of Britain's leading scholars and journalists. Here's a preview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[00:40:01]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When we talk about Camilla, and her PR, it was a slow, steady playing the long game, from public enemy No. 1 to where she is now, soon to be queen, crowned in Westminster Abbey. 
 
She's got a consciousness about her public image.
 
CAMILLA, QUEEN CONSORT: What is going on here in history.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think she's also conscious, perhaps, of her husband's ego; indeed, the ego of the institution of royalty to which she belongs. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Charles was very jealous of Diana's popularity. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So I think the reason Camilla fits in better with him than Diana did is because she doesn't upstage him. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Be sure to watch "The Reign Begins: Charles and Camilla" on "THE WHOLE STORY," airing Thursday, 4 p.m. on the U.S. East Coast. That's 9 p.m. in London.
 
And tune in for CNN's special live coverage of the coronation this Saturday, starting at 5 a.m. in New York. That's 10 a.m. in London. Special coverage right here on CNN.
 
Well, Wrexham owners Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney celebrated their fairytale win with an open-top bus parade on Tuesday.
 
The men's team secured promotion from the National League, English soccer's fifth tier. It came after victory against Boreham Wood last month. 
 
The parade also celebrated the women's team after they won promotion in their league this season, as well. 
 
The Hollywood pair joined players and staff as they waved to thousands of fans who lined the streets of the city of Wrexham in Wales. Move over, Ted Lasso. It's a happy Hollywood ending, and it's just beginning. 
 
I'm John Vause, back at the top of the hour with more CNN NEWSROOM. But first, WORLD SPORT starts after the break. See you back here in about 18 minutes. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[00:45:28]
 
(WORLD SPORT)