Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Stoltenberg: It's Difficult to Predict what will Happen in Russia in the next days and weeks; Russia Pulls Back from Crisis after Insurrection; Uncertainty Looms Over Russia after Wagner Rebellion; Finland has done Huge Success with "Housing First" Plan; Ukraine Claim Gains Amid Heavy Fighting; Bolton: Biden has Done "Right Thing" in Dealing with Instruction. Aired 8-8:45a ET

Aired June 26, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN HOST: Let's go to Vilnius in Lithuania where the NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg is taking questions.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- Wagner units are being stationed to Belarus. Thank you very much. Can you confirm that Wagner units are being stationed in Belarus? Thank you. And President Nauseda I also have question for you. Can you -- what are the other countries except Germany Lithuania is negotiating to send to deploy air defense capabilities, thank you?
 
GITANASA NAUSEDA, LITHUANIAN PRESIDENT: From my part I don't have any newer information about deployment of Wagner troops or units into Belarus.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Inaudible).
 
NAUSEDA: Air defense well, we have made our decision for the Summit this year but not more at the moment.
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: This is the issue I would like to touch too because air defense systems are critically important especially in the crisis scenario. Of course the air force information is important during the peace time but air defense systems are much more important if the situation starts to deteriorate.
 
And war in Ukraine show that really it took control of air spaces is one of the most important possibilities to reduce the losses especially during the initial stage of the crisis. But regarding to your question yes, Minister already mentioned that now we're talking about air defense systems provided during the NATO Summit and shortly afterwards.
 
We are talking about air defense systems on rotational bases after the Vilnius Summit. And I already started my discussions -- decentralize namely, Netherlands, France, Germany, and other countries. But so far it's very complicated, to answer this question, and who will be responsible for which part, or which element of air defense systems.
 
Much more important is that the already have the conclusion of decision on the NATO level that air defense systems in the Eastern Flank on rotational basis. This is probably adequate response to the current situation. We are looking forward to working with our partners in the near future regarding this issue.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you, we have second media question please.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Natalia (ph) from Thunberg. Thank you so much for the questions. For Secretary Stoltenberg, what impact does NATO expect the Wagner events to have on the battlefield in Ukraine? And German Minister Pistorius, I'm curious to ask why did Germany change its decision about prominence troops based in Lithuania? Was this at all tied to the Wagner events over the weekend, or was this in motion already before? Thank you.
 
STOLTENBERG: I think what we've seen in Russia over the last days demonstrates the fragility of the regime and of course -- weakness -- sorry.
 
BORIS PISTORIUS, GERMAN MINISTSER: Not the German regime.
 
STOLTENBERG: Oh sorry, the Russian regime. And it also demonstrates how difficult and dangerous it is for President Putin to be reliant on mercenaries that has actually turned against him. It also demonstrates that it is hard to predict exactly what will now happen in the next days and weeks.
 
But we should not make the mistakes that we are under estimating the Russians. So we need to continue to provide support to Ukraine. And that's exactly what NATO allies are doing with military support, but also support for the long term. And that's in a way, what we can say today about the effects on the battlefield in Ukraine.
 
PISTORIUS: To your question, it is not really change of our position. What I wanted and what I did emphasize today was to say, we are willing to do that under two preconditions. And the one is, of course, the infrastructure, which will Israelian government is willing and prepared to provide as soon as possible.
 
And we agreed to build up the brigade in the same speed like improving like building up the infrastructure succeeds in Lithuania. And the second point is very important to regarding and looking to install back, of course, occur has certain interests and very important interest too.
 
So we said he has to have the possibility to maintain military flexibility at Eastern flank, which is very important too. So if he does not disagree, if he doesn't disagree, we will go on and proceed in that way.
 
NAUSEDA: From my side, I can only assure you that our part of the job they will do as good as possible and as quick as possible, meaning elements of infrastructure in order to accommodate the brigade size, presence of German troops in my country.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you. We have time for one last question, please. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you very much, Micheal Fisher German press agency. I have a question for the Secretary General. First of all, does NATO need to react in any way on the recent developments in Russia? President Nauseda, for example, suggested yesterday to strengthen the Eastern Flank of NATO right now, if the Wagner troops will settle in Belarus, is that an option from your point of view?
 
Or are there any consequences for the NATO Russia Founding Act? And my second question to you would be what message goes out from the permanent deployment of the German brigade that was announced by Mr. Pistorius today? What message goes out to Mr. Putin and Mr. Lukashenko from the deployment?
 
And Mr. Nauseda question on the brigade too, the condition is that Lithuania builds the infrastructure for the brigade by when will that be finished?
 
STOLTENBERG: Let me start by saying that we, of course, very much welcome the German leadership, which has been demonstrated throughout actually a long time, but it's very much enhanced by the German announcement today, because German led the bat group, but also more German troops deployed here shows strong German commitment to our collective defense, to our shared security.
 
And it's part of the adaptational NATO, which has taken place since 2014 with high readiness of forces but also with more deployments of combat 30 NATO troops in the Eastern part of the alliance, including the bat groups, and one of them is the German lead bat group here in Lithuania.
 
So this demonstrates German leadership, German commitment to our transatlantic bond. And it also demonstrates the value of a multilateral NATO commitment to your country likely Lithuania. It sends of course a message our President said.
 
And also the exercise we just watched of a NATO readiness and then at NATO capability to defend every inch of NATO territory. And the reason we do that is of course not to provoke a conflict, but it is to prevent the conflict because credible deterrence is about preventing war.
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
It's about preventing conflict it's about preventing attacks and preserving peace and this is not only about for forward precedence, which is important, but it's also about people switching equipment, supplies, high readiness and exercises. So it's all of this together, backed also by significant air and naval power.
 
And that also fits into the issue of air defense. I think, of course, land based air defense systems are important. But we have to understand that we may now have this rotation model in place for air defense, we which can make it easier for us to switch from air policing to air defense.
 
Air Forces are also part of our defense and naval forces can also provide significant air defense capabilities on very short notice. So this is the German announcement is welcomed and its part of a PAP ban and a big adaptation of NATO, and that had taken place over several years.
 
One more thing about this is that we will also make important decisions at the Vilnius Summit on the infrastructure, the new force model, and also with plans that will dedicate specific forces to protect specific territories. This is the first time since actually the Cold War where we are going to have plans linked to specific forces to protect specific territories.
 
Then the first question also? Yes, well, first of all, I think it's a bit early to say exactly, because things may still evolve. Second, we are, of course, monitoring very closely. And we are able to react quickly if there is a need. At the same time, I think it is important to remind you all that this is about internal Russian matters.
 
And therefore what NATO is focused on is to support Ukraine. It demonstrates the fragility of the regime. But it's not for NATO to intervene in those issues that's Russian matter what matters for NATO is to not be intimidated and not be prevented from continue to provide unprecedented support for Ukraine.
 
And also, of course, to have the necessary deterrence and defense we have that already. We have increased our presence over the years and with the German and unfit to yet another example of how allies are increasing their presence.
 
But again, it's not only about presence, it's also about the ability to help early warnings, indications and then react quickly if there is a need and this exercise demonstrates exactly that.
 
NAUSEDA: My part of the question, we are simplify the procedures and technical procedures, legal procedures in order to be able to finalize the building of infrastructure by 2026. But I will be not too angry if the Minister of Defense which is sitting in front of me will finalize in 2025.
 
Anyway, we have strong political commitment in Lithuania to find out the necessary financial resources -- in order to be able to finance the needs of infrastructure, but of course, hand in hand modernization of our armed forces. It's very important priority to us too.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you. The press conference is over. I wish everyone a pleasant afternoon.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you.
 
FOSTER: Watching their Secretary General of NATO Jens Stoltenberg holding a press conference in Lithuania. Along with the German and Lithuanian Defence Ministers as part of the fallout from the rebellion in Russia this weekend, the world waits to see what exactly Vladimir Putin does next and the whereabouts of the man who led that rebellion Yevgeny Prigozhin -- clear at this hour.
 
The Kremlin had said the Wagner boss had agreed to leave Russia for Belarus as part of a deal ending his revolt but officials there say they can't confirm that he's arrived. And now Russian state media is reporting precaution remains under investigation for inciting an armed rebellion even though the Kremlin had said the charges will be dropped as part of that deal.
 
Meanwhile, Moscow looking pretty calm this hour. The city's Mayor says all security restrictions imposed following that insurrection have now been lifted. World leaders continue to closely monitor developments in Russia. EU Foreign Ministers have been meeting in Luxembourg.
 
Let's speak to Nic Robertson he's having to juggle all of this and it's so fast moving and you can see there when Stoltenberg speaking the sensitivities here because they will go It is an internal Russian matter.
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
But I do feel obviously they have to monitor what happens in terms of how it might affect Ukraine?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: And that was one of the questions that were asked. And I think his point was, in particular, don't underestimate Russia. That's the key thing. We need to keep supporting Ukraine and the questions were involved will Prigozhin essentially in Belarus pose a bigger threat to NATO?
 
Because when they bring us forces there, these are unknowns, although that seems very unlikely. What's interesting here is this disposition, new, desperate NATO disposition of additional air assets on the Eastern flank, and I was recently covering the big NATO air defender exercise where it was all about training different pilots from different countries together.
 
But the commander, the German commander in charge of that said one of the big takeaways from watching the way Russia fights the war in Ukraine is control of airspace. And what you heard Secretary General Stoltenberg speak about there was the importance of, again, being able to control that airspace.
 
It's clear that NATO sees the way that the war is being fought in Ukraine and is stepping up its ability to deal with an overspill the way that Russia is fighting it with missiles, with drones. That's what these fighter aircraft could this turn from policing to defensive NATO would find them doing.
 
But yes, in the context of the Wagner situation over the weekend, I don't think NATO or anyone else has taken the eye off the ball. But the diplomatic message from Stoltenberg the same as we've heard from the State Department from others.
 
This shows the fragility of the Russian leadership, but don't think that it's going to change anything on the ground immediately in Ukraine.
 
FOSTER: We've had some video from Putin today. We've had some video of the Defense Minister out there on the front lines as well. We don't know when either of them was filmed. But this is how they're messaging right now, isn't it that we are still in control?
 
And, you know, in terms of the Defense Minister, very interesting, because that's the guy that Prigozhin wanted to get rid of, with the saying he's here.
 
ROBERTSON: Almost saying he's still here. They're not saying that how long is going to be around for it? Yes, absolutely, look, this is the Kremlin messaging, saying nothing to see here folks move on, lifting the security, strict restrictions in Moscow, which was severe, there was going to be no going to work on Monday.
 
And there were going to be no public events until the beginning of July. So all of that's gone. It's the Kremlin is taking the attitude of it appears, least said, let's move on. Partly because look, what Prigozhin did here was get will show that there is a big public support for how people feel that the war is being badly fought that, you know, this has been a big part of promotions narrative.
 
And he got a lot of support on the street. And that's a very dangerous has been a very dangerous conversation for Putin to allow to grow in the country. So that's one reason why Putin wants to pretend everything's OK, and move along and just refocus on the fate.
 
And the other is, of course, that there's this huge turmoil going on behind the scenes within Putin's own inner circle, and he hasn't handled it as well, or as strongly as he has in the past. He's allowed it to come on the streets, and jeopardize the safety of the Russian citizens.
 
And if there is one thing that the Russian citizen's sort of understanding their relationship with Putin is you can lie and cheat to us as much as you like, but just give us security and safety and stability in our own country. His tenure as leader becomes more fragile in this new environment.
 
So absolutely, the Kremlin is trying to portray whenever this video of Putin was shot is trying to portray. I know, folks, you know, we're moving on now. That's --
 
FOSTER: OK. Nic thanks very much indeed. Russia's Deputy Foreign Minister flew to Beijing on Sunday, where he met with Chinese officials the two nations reaffirmed their close partnership, China -- you to brief statements about the dramatic events in Russia over the weekend.
 
Beijing called the Wagner revolts an internal affair, and said that China supports Russia in maintaining national stability. U.S. President Joe Biden spoke about the situation in Russia over the weekend with leaders of Germany, France and the U.K.
 
According to people familiar with the call, his message was to keep the temperature low, and let events in Russia play out. Mr. Biden stressed the importance of deflecting any potential Russian effort to accuse the west of interference. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke to CNN about the Biden Administration's view of what's happening in Russia. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: It's too soon to tell exactly where this is going to go. And I suspect that this is a moving picture and we haven't seen the last act yet.
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
But we can say this first of all what we've seen is extraordinary and I think you'll see cracks emerge that that weren't there before. This is just an added chapter to a very, very bad book that Putin has written for Russia. But what's so striking about it is internal.
 
The fact, that you have from within someone directly questioning Putin's authority directly questioning the premises that upon which he launched this aggression against Ukraine, that in and of itself is something very, very powerful. It adds cracks, where those go when they get there too soon to say. But it clearly raises new questions that Putin has to deal with.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Relates to the White House, let's bring in CNN's Arlette Saenz, you expecting much more comment on this, because they are very much taking the view aren't they? This is an internal matter and they don't want to be seen to be interfering.
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOU.S.E CORRESPONDENT: I think that remains to be seen right now, Max. You know, President Biden has adopted this very deliberate quiet and cautious strategy. We haven't heard from the President himself over the course of the weekend. He could face some questions from reporters a bit earlier today.
 
But you did hear a little bit from Secretary of State Antony Blinken there, as he talked about this view that Vladimir Putin is hold on power has started to see some cracks that there have been some fissures as is evidenced by this rebellion that was waged by the mercenary group, Wagner group.
 
Now, one thing that President Biden over the course of the weekend really tried to do was placed these calls to allies who have been central to the west efforts to counter Russia's invasion of Ukraine. That is why he hopped on the phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as well as the leaders of France, Germany, the United Kingdom, and Canada.
 
And one thing that was discussed in those calls was this strategy of essentially just staying low to allow things in Russia to play out without any comments into the matter. Officials I've spoken with said that they're cautious and don't want to give Vladimir Putin any fuel, any fodder to make claims that the West has been trying to interfere in this matter but also with those calls, to those allies, and to Zelenskyy.
 
The White House is trying to show that they remain committed to Ukraine, especially as there are these questions about what this rebellion could have the broader impact of the rebellion would have on the war in Ukraine.
 
So that is all something that the White House and allies are trying to game out at this moment as they've really seen this weakening in Putin's power within Russia. Question is whether that prompts Putin to take further action in Ukraine to save face in many ways.
 
FOSTER: CNN White House Correspondent Arlette Saenz, thank you very much indeed for that. Still to come, we'll look at the whether this weekend's insurrection in Russia is a sign of a weakened Vladimir Putin.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
FOSTER: There are growing doubts about Vladimir Putin's grip on power after the Wagner rebellion over the weekend. We haven't heard much from Mr. Putin after the most dramatic challenge to his 23 year rule in the speech on Saturday he vowed to punish Wagner group leader Yevgeny Prigozhin.
 
That was before a deal to end the mutiny and send Prigozhin to Belarus. These pictures from Saturday are the last we've seen of the Wagner boss. Let's get some perspective on the situation. Matthew Chance joins us from Moscow. We just don't know where he is doing.
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERANATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: We don't he's supposed to be in Belarus. And you know he could well end up there and turn up there in the hours ahead, we don't know. He says office responded to us yesterday saying that he's out of telephone signal at the moment. And he won't be able to answer any of our questions.
 
And I've spoken to Belarusian officials within past few minutes actually. And they're still not willing to confirm to me whether or not Yevgeny Prigozhin has arrived in Belarus. So I can tell you back here in Moscow, the Russian Capital.
 
There is definitely a palpable sense of relief on the streets that bloodshed was avoided. And that armored column of Wagner rebel mercenaries was turned back from the outskirts of the Russian capital and the under forces dispersed. But that relief is also coupled with I suppose anxiety about what this challenge to the Kremlin effectively may now unleash.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHANCE (voice over): To the Kremlin these are some of the most disturbing scenes from a weekend of shocking images. On the streets of a major Russian city, Rostov-on-Don in the south, residents cheered Wagner fighters as they withdrew. Many Russians see them as heroes, not as the traitors the Kremlin paints -- .
 
And Wagner's leader, Yevgeny Prigozhin has become a celebrity too. Watch his supporters hailed down his car, just to shake hands. The Kremlin says he's now moving to Belarus next door, but it's unclear if this is the last we'll see of him. What is definite, though, is a sense of relief, at least here in the Russian capital.
 
CHANCE (on camera): It's calm now. But in the mayhem of the weekend, Moscow was on high alert military checkpoints on the outskirts of the city residents bracing for Wagner fighters to enter and for the confrontation that never came.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It was really uneasy yesterday says Andre. But look now people are walking in the streets and it's all good. Let's hope it will stay peaceful he adds.
 
CHANCE (voice over): But even here, this sympathy for Prigozhin's unprecedented challenge his tirades against the conduct of the war in Ukraine appear to have struck a popular chord.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it was an expression of an opinion says only -- another resident of Moscow and opinion of a powerful person who wants some justice and clarity, the belief Prigozhin should be listened too is widely shared here.
 
CHANCE (voice over): But that's not what the Kremlin wants to hear. Vladimir Putin hasn't appeared in public since making his angry pledge on Saturday. Film behind the scenes by state television to punish those responsible for what he called an armed mutiny, the biggest challenge to his authority in 23 years of power, but now that challenge has been made.
 
There are growing concerns about what a defensive President Putin stung by the events of this weekend. We'll do next to stay in power.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHANCE: Well, actually, in the last couple of hours, Max, there has been an appearance by Vladimir Putin not live in a pre-recorded message, basically addressing an international youth trade forum in the Russian region of Tula but beyond that.
 
And there was no mention by the way of this armed uprising it took place at the weekend, but beyond that the Russian leader who has clearly been damaged, in terms of his credibility by this uprising has been conspicuous with his absence, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK, Matthew, thanks for joining us with that from Moscow. Now, Britain's Prince William is taking on one of the U.K.'s most pressing social issues the prince is plan to end homelessness, just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
FOSTER: One in five people in the U.K. have personal experience of it and 70 percent believe it's getting worse the issue is homelessness is a major problem in the U.K., but Britain's Prince William says he believes it can be eradicated.
 
He's just launched a new campaign called Homewards, which will work with organizations and experts to find local solutions to homelessness in Britain. The launch in London this morning Prince William spoke about his mother Princess Diana first introducing him to the issue.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRINCE WILLIAM, UNITED KINGDOM: I first visited a homeless shelter when I was 11 with my mother. The visits we made together left a deep and lasting impression. I met so many extraordinary people and listen to so many heartbreaking personal stories.
 
Too many people find themselves with as a stable and permanent place to call home. Through these visits, I have seen firsthand the breadth and complexities of homelessness.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: The Prince's new scheme takes inspiration from Finland, which has managed to decrease homelessness and has a plan to eradicate it as well. Juha Kahila is Head of International Affairs at the Y-Foundation and award winning social enterprise infinite working on homelessness.
 
He joins me now from Helsinki, thanks so much for joining us. Lots of countries have been visiting your projects to try to work out what you're doing right just explain how you've managed to reduce homelessness to almost zero?
 
JUHA KAHILA, HEAD OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS AT THE Y-FOUNDATION: Well, I think the trick is quite simple, actually. So we have the finished housing first model here, which means that homeless people first they need the home, and then the support what they need and is available for them.
 
So with that finished housing first model, we have been able to reduce the homelessness quite a lot in recent years. And now the official number from last year is actually 3886 homeless people all together in Finland.
 
FOSTER: One of your plans, as I understand it, is you replace the hostels with actual apartments, so people aren't in temporary accommodation, they go into permanent accommodation that's really central to your plan.
 
KAHILA: Yes, for sure. So when we started housing first in 2008 that was in the core of the whole thing. So what we did is that we renovate almost all of the shelters into housing first units, which means, that there is everything between 20, to 100.
 
Apartments on a single site and people will have a permanent rental agreement and then there is support available for them 24/7 downstairs if and when needed.
 
FOSTER: And then you work with local agencies, which are all working on homelessness but aren't necessarily coordinating with each other.
 
KAHILA: Yes, of course cooperation is one of the key things when we're talking about ending homelessness and we lead all the key stakeholders in the same table. So in Finland, we have been in a fortunate situation that we have the ministries, the local authorities, cities, NGOs, service providers, housing providers, working together towards this common vision of ending homelessness in Finland.
 <br>[08:30:00]
 
So that has been really, really crucial part of the work here for sure.
 
FOSTER: Do you think though it can really work in a country like the U.K. which is a lot bigger and has a much bigger homeless problem and doesn't have nearly the same sort of systems that you have in place to support, you know, blocks of apartments, for example.
 
KAHILA: I think for sure, and I think the whole board is a great example. And we'll bring the results in within the five years that it will be running. And I think we have seen some good results already in from the pilot project from England.
 
For example, in the city of Liverpool and Manchester, there has been quite successful housing first project going on. So I think there should be, you know, no talk about why it wouldn't work in a country like U.K., for example.
 
FOSTER: And where else do you think it can work anywhere? I know that you've worked closely with the Netherlands, for example.
 
KAHILA: Yes, I think so. I think we have seen some good results already in Denmark, Scotland, and Netherlands, of course. And then in France, CP of Paris is doing great work in Canada, and then in some States and MCPS even in the U.S., so I think it surely can work and will work.
 
But what we need now is the courage to take the action towards the housing first model, so we can actually end homelessness and not just talk about it.
 
FOSTER: OK, Juha Kahila, thank you very much indeed for joining us from Helsinki on that. Still ahead the aftermath of a shortlist rebellion by the Head of the Wagner mercenary group. We'll go live to Kyiv to examine how this all impacts Russia's war on Ukraine.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: One on our top story is short lived rebellion by the Head of a Russian mercenary group. The Kremlin has released a pre-recorded video of Russian President Vladimir Putin giving a short address. Mikhail, Russia's Prime Minister is calling for unity.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKHAIL MISHUSTIN, RUSSIAN PRIME MINISTER: We need to act together as one team and maintain the unity of all forces rallying around the President make well considered joint decisions for the effective implementation of tasks set by the Head of state.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: We haven't seen or heard from the Head of Wagner Yevgeny Prigozhin since late Saturday, after the Kremlin says he agreed to deal to end the mutiny and leave Russia for Belarus. Moscow remains quite right now with the mare saying all security restrictions have been lifted.
 
But experts warn the rent uprising could have consequences down the line. Ukrainian President Zelenskyy has discussed Russia's internal conflict with other world leaders including U.S. President Joe Biden. Meanwhile, on the frontlines, Ukraine claims to have gained ground around Bakhmut and that's amid intense fighting over the weekend.
 
Ukraine's Air Force says it shut down 13 air targets overnight including cruise missiles and drones. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh is in Kyiv with the very latest developments and Bakhmut was obviously one of the front lines where Wagner was working. How's this all going to affect the war in Ukraine?
 <br>[08:35:00]
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: That's still an open question and possibly frankly for the Moscow elite a very urgent and important one, make no mistake the whole of Vladimir Putin on power is a seismic question for Russia but also their fate in this war that they've cast as an existential fight.
 
Not just with Ukraine, but with its NATO backers. So, certainly quite whether this extraordinary term or that's a phrase that Vladimir Putin used himself when talking about this on Saturday morning impacts the front line is an urgent question.
 
We know from Russian state media that 3000 Chechen fighters loyal to Russia moved towards Moscow to assist in its defense, as the Wagner columns were approaching. We think some of those may have heralded for America, that's a town in Donetsk.
 
So one potential weakness there along the front line, but while Ukraine statements have persistently suggested they are continuing to engage the heavy fighting is occurring. We've had one small gain of ribbon appeal, a village that's been claimed to fall into Ukrainian hands this morning by the Deputy Defense Minister that's incremental.
 
Other suggestions of tactical successes they say in the south, but also suggestions over the weekend of slightly more territory being regained on the outskirts of Bakhmut. So in short, there's not been a radical Russian collapse since this extraordinary event over the weekend.
 
And that may be because the Wagner fighters that move towards Moscow, it's unclear exactly how many of them were. But it's pretty obvious they didn't just pick up their tools on Thursday night and start marching on Rostov things have been planned possibly quite significantly in advance.
 
Particularly given U.S. intelligence reports that they were aware of this for upwards of 10 days, so a lot still to play out, potentially. But much of this is in Ukraine's hands in that it's their choice to whether or not they choose to use this moment to apply greater pressure along the frontline to perhaps see if they can cause Russia to make an error of judgment.
 
Plenty of mistakes, frankly happening in the higher chain of command throughout Moscow in the last 72 hours, but are they also concerned maybe about getting in the way of Russia's internal collapse, maybe causing an earthquake on the Ukrainian front lines that might actually rally the Russian -- rounded leadership at this time?
 
A lot of questions we can't answer. An important one that we may get greater clarity on, Max, in the coming hours is exactly where Yevgeny Prigozhin is whether he signed up to this apparent deal touted by the Kremlin and Belarusian officials.
 
That he would get immunity, his fighters would get immunity were potentially be able to go and join the Russian Ministry of Defense, whether he signed up to that he made no mention of it in his last audio message. So that's a key part of the puzzle missing.
 
But also to where his Wagner fighters actually are? We've seen public scenes of them being cheered and departing the Southern City of Rostov on Don, just pause and remember how extraordinary it is that they could walk as they say without firing a shot into a southern Military hub like that to take it over chats with Deputy Defense Ministers relaxingly in an inner courtyard of a defense building.
 
And then pull out without it seems the Russian Military confronting them at all, and see quite what that does for Russian morale in the days ahead. Wagner fighters may not be going along with this deal, or they may be disappearing into the background. It's a question we have to answer.
 
And you have to ask yourself to what does this mean for a Russian Military whose morale has been sapped by months of catastrophic mismanagement and defeat and a now having to assess quite what commands come down the chain and whether they're worth adhering to or not in this utterly crucial moment in Ukraine's counter offensive, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK, Nick, thank you for joining us from Kyiv. Earlier my colleague Poppy Harlow spoke to Former Trump National Security Adviser John Bolton about events in Russia. This weekend, he emphasized that many questions remain unanswered. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOHN BOLTON, FORMER TRUMP NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: I have to say, I think all of us have to avoid strenuously drawing overbroad conclusions from insufficient data. And right now, we have radically insufficient information about a whole host of things, starting with the coup and attempted coup and what happened to it and what the future holds.
 
I have my own doubts about how serious this coup effort was, and what kind of threat it actually posed to Putin. And I had my doubts. It clearly amounts to a weakening of Putin's position, but whether it's fatal as some people seem to think I had my doubts about that. We just don't know enough. And I think that's one very good reason why the White House has done very little here. And that's a position they should hold to.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (on camera): Do you think the Biden White House has handled this well, it sounds like?
 
BOLTON: I think they've done nothing, which I think is the right thing to do.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (on camera): Because there are some Republicans who've been calling for them to do a lot better heard among them. Let me ask you this because you told our Jake Tapper in an interview none of us will ever forget last year, you admitted to planning coups before
 <br>[08:40:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (on camera): So you have a unique perspective on this Ambassador. Why do you think Prigozhin turned around?
 
BOLTON: Well, I think that's a question that we don't know the answer to. "The Daily Telegraph" in London reports that the Kremlin threatened his family. And that was enough. I think it was because the effort that he had launched was doomed. And you know people talk about how we got within 125 miles of Moscow, with how many Wagner group troops an infantry division, or squad, or something in between?
 
And by the way, how much ammunition did they have? People say there wasn't really a response by the Russian military. We have reports at least of conflict around Voronezh, where the Wagner group itself took credit for downing several Russian helicopters and a reconnaissance command aerial command post, which indicates there was some fighting.
 
This struck me as a desperation effort by Prigozhin to somehow keep the Wagner Group in operation. And I don't see it as a populace threat to Putin. I don't see it as cracking the aura of Putin's invincibility to give the Russian people a little bit of credit.
 
This war against Ukraine has been going on for 16 months. You think they think that Putin is infallible? I don't think so.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Former Trump National Security Adviser John Bolton. Now in Poland building has collapsed in the Egyptian Coastal City of Alexandria. Search and rescue teams are combing through the wreckage hoping to find survivors trapped in the rubble. Authority says most of the people in the 13 storey building with tourists who are staying there whilst on vacation.
 
In Greece Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has won a second four year term defeating his main rival by a huge margin. Supporters celebrated in the streets as the results were announced with nearly 100 percent of the votes counted. The ruling New Democracy Party received more than 40 percent of the vote. The main opposition leftist Syriza Party polled at just about 17 percent. An underwater robot is combing the seafloor for debris from the Titan sub implosion. This is the Odysseus 6K, the same robot that found the subs debris field last week.
 
Meanwhile, the U.S. Coast Guard has formed an investigative board to "Pursue civil or criminal sanctions as necessary". Canadian investigators are also looking into the case. Thanks for joining me here on CNN Newsroom. I'm Max Foster in London. "World Sport" with Amanda is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:45:00]