Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Pregnant Migrants Say TX National Guard Members Denied Them Water; U.S. Women's Tran Set To Begin World Cup Three-Peat Quest Tonight Against Vietnam; Movie Feature Poised To Be Movie Event Of The Summer. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired July 21, 2023 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00]
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT &amp; INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: At the time they disappear, his family's away from the house. He's there by himself. The second thing is the cellular tower records of the victims.
 
So, in Amber Costello's case, you know, she's coming from West Babylon. She's picked up by a dark truck that fits the description of his vehicle. The person who comes to pick her up looks like he -- tall, you know, bushy hair, big glasses so she goes and is never seen again.
 
But if you look at Megan Waterman and Melissa Barthelemy, you know, one of them is coming from Hauppauge. That's 23 miles east of where he lives. But the cell phone goes from Hauppauge at 1:30 in the morning to Massapequa Park right in the cell tower closest to his house. And you see the same with the other victims. So, the cell phones are telling a story that he's luring them to the house.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: If this theory bears out -- if this is true, that's where he's luring them and that's how this is going. What does that say -- I mean, it says a lot about planning. But what does it say about -- I don't know, the personality of this serial killer -- the mentality of this killer?
 
MILLER: It says in the genre of the serial killer that he would fit into the organized killer category. You know that a disorganized killer may be -- may strike spontaneously, may do it outside, may risk getting caught to a high degree witnesses so on and so forth. You know, Jack the Ripper was a disorganized killer.
 
In this case, you see planning goes into it. The anonymity of choosing victims who use aliases -- his use of aliases, fake e-mail accounts, burner cell phones, and you know, the way to -- that he took to plan to hide his identity so well over a period of time. But by bringing them to the home, he's also exerting a level of control.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes.
 
MILLER: If he met them at the hotels where they worked at other places, you're passing by a lot of video cameras, security officers, front desk, people, other guests. And if you're committing a murder, that could get very loud in a hotel room in the wee hours of the morning. At home, he had control and they didn't.
 
BOLDUAN: It's great to see you, John. Thank you so much. Much more to come on this including tonight -- programming note this weekend. Sunday night, a special hour on the murders on a new episode of "The Whole Story with Anderson Cooper: The Gilgo Beach Killer." Sunday night at 8:00. Rahel?
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS ANCHOR: All right. Well, there are disturbing new allegations of mistreatment at the U.S.-Mexico border. Two pregnant migrants tell CNN that Texas National Guard members denied them water when they asked for it while they were trying to turn themselves in to authorities. Now, this comes as the Justice Department is looking into allegations that state troopers were told to push back migrants into the Rio Grande and also deny them water to drink.
 
I want to bring in CNN's Rosa Flores. Because, Rosa, you spoke to these two women. I mean, what did they tell you?
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Rahel, they said that the Texas National Guard denied them water multiple times. Let me show you around while I tell you their story because we're on the banks of the Rio Grande. You can see that there are multiple layers of border barriers deployed by the -- by the state of Texas. There's two sets of concertina wire and then there's buoys.
 
According to these women, they say that they met up with the Texas National Guard by the concertina wire that's right by the river. And they said that they asked the Texas National Guard members for water. Again, these two women were pregnant, and they said that they were denied. They say that the Texas National Guard told them it wasn't a responsibility. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FLORES: Did they deny you water? She says that the Texas National Guard first denied her water. And then afterwards they did give them water but it was one bottle of water for two to three people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FLORES: Now, the other woman says that she asked a second time for water and she says that she was shown handcuffs. Now, I want to go back to show you the river because that woman says that the Texas National Guard asked him to continue walking. Well, later on, she says that law enforcement in airboats then circled them on the Rio Grande and the Wake kept on knocking them over. And then of course then they kept walking and they eventually did get water from other law enforcement.
 
Now, Texas National Guard, we've asked them about these specific allegations. They have not responded yet. But overall, they've denied their ally -- the allegations that there's any directive for them not to give them water.
 
Now, this comes and these stories come after a Texas State Trooper blew the whistle saying that there is inhumane treatment of migrants here on the border. And of course, the U.S. DOJ has been assessing the situation will and now, led by U.S. Congressman Joaquin Castro.
 <br>[11:35:06]
 
More than 80 U.S. Democratic lawmakers are urging the President of the United States, Joe Biden, to investigate and pursue legal action saying in this letter. "We urge you to assert your authority over federal immigration policy and foreign relations and investigate and pursue legal action as appropriate related to stopping Governor Abbott's dangerous and cruel actions."
 
And, Rahel, I want to leave you with one final picture. I want us to show these buoys because in this letter when these congressmen are talking about foreign relations, according to the U.S. State Department, Texas did not seek permits and obtain permits to deploy those buoys that you're taking a look at. And the top diplomat of Mexico has complained to Washington. They're worried that those buoys are actually in Mexican territory. Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: Rosa Flores, live for us here in Eagle Pass, Texas. Rosa, thank you. Keep us posted on this. Kate?
 
BOLDUAN: Today, the U.S. Women's Soccer Team returns to the World Cup stage with a quest to defend their title and clinch a third straight championship. Soccer great, Joy Fawcett joins us live. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:49]
 
BOLDUAN: In just hours, the U.S. Women's National Soccer Team kicks off its quest for a historic third straight title at the World Cup. The team will be facing off with first-time World Cup competitor Vietnam at 9:00 p.m. Eastern tonight in New Zealand, but 9:00 p.m. Eastern local there in New Zealand. The powerhouse U.S. team has placed in the top three of every World Cup since the tournament began.
 
Joining us is someone who knows the pressure, the excitement of this moment, Joy Fawcett. She played in for women's world -- I'm going to need to -- I actually need to look down to read all of this, Joy, to get this right.
 
Four Women's World Cups. Three Olympic Games. You're the assistant coach to the U.S. Women's Deaf National Soccer Team. And a factoid I read this morning, which was -- is a marvel, you're the only team member who play all minutes of the '95, '99, and 2003 Women's World Cups.
 
JOY FAWCETT, RETIRED AMERICAN PROFESSIONAL SOCCER PLAYER: Wow. Yes. I don't think the guy knew that. But that means I love playing.
 
BOLDUAN: I'm here to -- I'm here to help you. Talk to me about a -- talk to me about this moment. What it means for -- what we know, this is a stacked packed, and rock star U.S. team. I mean, I've heard it described as the America -- the U.S. team could -- we have -- the bench is so deep. The talent is so great. You could come up with two All-Star teams out of this one. What are you watching for?
 
FAWCETT: Well, there's a lot of new players on this team. They all are rock stars for sure. So, I think people are with all the last-minute injuries that occurred and the changes, there's a lot of new young players.
 
So, I think we're all excited to see how they do. We're excited to see kind of where he places players and those that are coming off of injuries like Ertz, how they're going to do and Rose and I'm sure they'll do really well. But it's -- it'll be interesting to see the formation and who ends up stepping up and who wants to be out there on the field and have an impact. So, that'll be fun to watch.
 
BOLDUAN: It's also kind of an -- there's lots to mark. A lot of ground is being broken in this moment. Obviously, they're hoping to become the first team male or female to win a third straight World Cup title.
 
But there's also, something I've covered quite a lot is the players are making -- are now making -- this is a moment of equity or they're -- in the quest for equity, where the players are making more money. This tournament is due to that historic collective bargaining deal that was struck with U.S. Soccer, though still only on average 25 cents of the dollar for male players that they're making, according to CNN analysis, which we should point out. But how big of a deal is this?
 
FAWCETT: It is a big deal. Every time you can make a step towards that equity, it's huge. And it's always a huge battle.
 
We've been doing it since the beginning is to battle to have things equal. So, it is huge to get even that little bit. But know that the fighting will not end until it's equal.
 
So -- but it is huge and it's well deserved. Way beyond deserved. If you look at the fans and the numbers that are showing up and the sponsors, it's well deserved.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. And one thing that -- I mean, we -- I think everyone can appreciate is what great role models these women have become on this team. I mean, my daughter very proudly still talks about her Alex Morgan presentation that she was -- that she did in second grade. And one of the factoids that she brought to me in her research was, Mom, do you know that she's also a mom? And that was -- it was a special thing for her.
 
And I think you know while we all tried to be many things right, Joy? We tried to be amazing professionals or rock star athletes, and we can also at the same time be rock star moms and carry on in that way. We can be both and we can be individually amazing.
 <br>[11:45:02] You were one of the first to be able to do that. Rock star athlete, to be -- you know, become a mom and return to play and to play at this level again. In the years since then, kind of what do you think in watching how it's changed? Kind of what do you think about where this conversation has gone -- has gone is there are what, three new moms on the team this year?
 
FAWCETT: Oh, I think it's amazing. Like when I look at it, I like -- I'm so excited to see the support that they have. And that it's not even a question like you can do it. Like, yes, it's not even a question today, which I love to see.
 
Back in the day, like, I remember having to ask for -- can I bring the kids? Can I have -- I'm going to have kids and let them know that I'm bringing them with me. The fact that they can just do it and they're supported financially for that, and it's huge -- it's huge.
 
And they should be able to do both because they are role models for all girls out there. And they -- girls need to see that they can do both. They can do anything they want to do. And it's cool to have these role models out there.
 
And I'm so excited to see that the path is a little easier. I mean, bringing your kids on the road is not easy, so -- and playing. So, this, to even have that support allows them to stay in the game that they love and to do what they want and they can do. So, I'm so excited to see it.
 
BOLDUAN: And you paved the way.
 
FAWCETT: (INAUDIBLE)
 
BOLDUAN: And you -- and you -- and you helped to pave the way for all -- for this. Joy, it's great to have you on. Thank you so much.
 
FAWCETT: Oh, thank you. Go USA.
 
BOLDUAN: Exactly. Rahel?
 
SOLOMON: Good stuff there, Kate. Thank you. All right, coming up. A box office showdown. Barbenheimer is here. It's two of the most highly anticipated movies of the year. And CNN sat down with the stars of the "Barbie" movie and got the inside scoop on how they prepare to take on these iconic roles.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: Did the Barbie sleepover happen? I heard that that director, Greta Gerwig, was like you guys need to have this.
 
MARGOT ROBBIE, ACTRESS, "BARBIE": Yes. And it was so much fun.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:51:49]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEN, FICTIONAL CHARACTER: Hey, Barbie, can I come to your house tonight?
 
BARBIE, FICTIONAL CHARACTER: Sure. I don't have anything big planned, just a giant blowout party with all the Barbies and planned choreography and a bespoke song. You should stop by.
 
KEN: So cool.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: Yes, so cool. Hollywood maybe shut down while actors and writers are on strike but that has not stop what's really become the movie events of the summer, hitting theaters today both Barbie which is being released by CNN's parent company, Warner Brothers, and also Oppenheimer. Now, these two movies have nothing to do with each other but the internet has created a craze as soon as Barbenheimer, where movie-goers are planning to watch both movies back to back. And that has made this one of the most anticipated box office weekends since the pandemic.
 
Our Sara Sidner spoke with the stars of Barbie, America Ferrera, and Margot Robbie about the movie. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SIDNER: What happens when you and Barbie meet finally?
 
AMERICA FERRERA, ACTRESS, "BARBIE": I don't want to spoil anything.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SIDNER: I don't spoil.
 
FERRERA: The moment that Gloria and Barbie connect, I just started like bawling. And it felt so beautiful that you know a grown woman could explore her imagination and her playfulness and really be enthusiastic about something that she loved and something that was playful and inspiring to her. And that that didn't have to be in contradiction to her as like a grown serious professional woman.
 
SIDNER: I have to be honest, though, I was not a Barbie-obsessed girl. I was too busy jumping out of trees and racing boys and trying to be better than the boys.
 
ROBBIE: I was exactly like you.
 
SIDNER: Do you all play with Barbies? OK.
 
FERRERA: I was not a Barbie-- I was not a Barbie girl. Well, you and I -- 
 
SIDNER: OK. ROBBIE: I know. I was exactly that you, Sara. I was like doing trying to beat the boys at everything. And I asked my mom before this press release like Mom, do you have any pictures of me like playing with Barbies or opening a Barbie on Christmas tree, like that? It'd be really helpful for this upcoming press tour.
 
SIDNER: No.
 
ROBBIE: And she was like, you? I couldn't even get you to wear a dress.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SIDNER: Sara Sidner, thank you very much.
 
BOLDUAN: The hype around the Barbie movie is huge. With quite a bit of talk also around, it being big -- helping to be big business for Mattel, the company behind the Barbie brand.
 
SOLOMON: Yes, let's bring in Vanessa Yurkevich. Vanessa, this can really create a boost not just for Barbie and Mattel, but also, for the movie industry which certainly needs it.
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS &amp; POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Certainly. And if you're a Barbie lover or hater, this movie is drawing a lot of curiosity. This could be the -- one of the biggest Box Office Weekends since the pandemic, estimated $200 million is what they're thinking. And brands outside of Mattel and outside of the Barbie movie are getting involved. You have Burger King doing a pink sauce. You have Crocs doing a special shoe. Zara is doing an entire Barbie fashion line. And also politicians are getting in on the fun. Take a look at Little Gretch -- 
 
BOLDUAN: Because why not?
 
YURKEVICH: Let's bring up Little Gretch up here. This is Gretchen Whitmore. She is the governor of Michigan.
 <br>[11:55:06]
 
BOLDUAN: No, that is not apparently her -- Gretchen.
 
YURKEVICH: That's not her.
 
SOLOMON: We'll get a -- (INAUDIBLE)
 
YURKEVICH: But she has created sort of her look as a Barbie. And she is Barbie talking about education and infrastructure and budgets and being a governor. So, she's clearly trying to get involved in this sort of feminist movement of Barbie. And she's trying to say that hey, Barbie can be whatever she wants to be even the governor.
 
SOLOMON: It seems that a lot of people have gotten involved on this trend.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. SOLOMON: I mean, every time I open my phone, somebody else is like doing the filter or -- I mean it's really taking the internet by storm.
 
BOLDUAN: I mean it is just plain old fun, but I definitely was one of the people who was either like ripping Barbie heads off which I think says something to me.
 
YURKEVICH: Why do people do that? Cut the head's off, cut the hair, whatever.
 
SOLOMON: Yes.
 
BOLDUAN: But let's talk about -- we're going to talk -- we're going to dive into that later.
 
SOLOMON: Vanessa, thank you.
 
BOLDUAN: Thank you all so much for joining us.
 
YURKEVICH: Thanks, guys.
 
BOLDUAN: Thanks, Vanessa. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. "INSIDE POLITICS" is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)