Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Chorus Of Warnings From European Capitals Urge Citizens To Leave Niger Immediately; Relentless Rain Pounds Beijing For Fourth Straight Day; Women's World Cup Nearing The End Of The Group Stage; Federal Grand Jury Meeting Now On Trump Efforts To Overturn 2020 Election; Four Nigerians Rescued After Spending Two Weeks Hiding Inside Of A Cargo Ship; Virtual Idol Xi Jiajia Sells Burgers In China; Hollywood Mourns The Death of Angus Cloud; AMC Reports Record Sales Week. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired August 01, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:00]
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello everyone, I'm Zain Asher in New York and this is One World. We begin with a chorus of warnings from 
 
 European capitals urging their citizens to leave Niger as quickly as possible. Just hours ago, France announced it would evacuate its citizens 
 
 from the West African nation because of the recent violence following last week's military coup. The first flight out is expected to leave in a few 
 
 hours from now. 
 
Italy has also announced a special flight for nationals who want to leave. Germany is also urging its citizens to get out as well, saying that they 
 
 can escape on the French flights if they choose to do so. It comes as neighboring countries warn against military intervention in Niger to 
 
 restore the ousted president. Burkina Faso, and Mali, two nations that have also seen military coups in recent years. Both say they will take up arms 
 
 to defend Niger, again, if necessary. We are covering this story from many different angles.
 
 CNN's Kylie Atwood is at the U.S. State Department for us. I want to begin with Larry Maddow, who joins us live now from Nairobi, Kenya. So, Larry, I 
 
 understand that France actually had to coordinate and get in touch with the junta to ensure that its citizens are actually able to evacuate as safely 
 
 as possible. What more do we know about these flights?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That is correct. That is what the French are saying, that they've been given assurances by the Nigerian military 
 
 that they will be able to evacuate their citizens and other Europeans safely. But they're also warning that they will be -- their forces will be 
 
 acting in a very vigilant manner, because you know, this is a junta that's in charge of the country, but there seems to be some disagreement within 
 
 the military, so you just kind of know what's going to happen. 
 
There are people right now at the Niamey International Airport that are being coordinated by French forces. This is the civilian airport. And the 
 
 French tell us that they have two A330s on the ground there to evacuate the citizens, their families, those that want to. And if it is necessary, they 
 
 will have a third A330 come into the country to evacuate more of them. 
 
They previously said that they expect this whole process to be over in 24 hours, the main reason being that the violence at their embassy on Sunday, 
 
 the anti-French protests they have seen and the anti-French sentiment has built up -- there's a closure of the airspace, which means that anybody 
 
 that wants to leave cannot leave on their own means. So, that is why.
 
This is also a situation that's escalating as you see neighbors of Niger, Burkina Faso in Mali, supporting the junta, saying that anything that would 
 
 involve a military intervention in Niger will be an act of war against them, and appear to have coordinated their message with Guinea. All these 
 
 three countries have -- are being led by military junta, and it's especially striking, Zain, this message read on state television in Mali by 
 
 the prime minister three times.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ABDOULAYE MAIGA, COLONEL, MALIAN INTERIM PRIME MINISTER: Warn that any military intervention against Niger would amount to a declaration of war 
 
 against Burkina Faso and Mali. I repeat, forewarn that any military intervention against Niger would amount to a declaration of war against 
 
 Burkina Faso and Mali. I repeat one last time. Warn that any military intervention against Niger would amount to a declaration of war against 
 
 Burkina Faso and Mali.
 
RIMTALBA JEAN EMMANUEL QUEDRAOGO: The transitional governments of Burkina Faso and Mali invite the living forces to be ready and mobilized, to lend a 
 
 hand to the people of Niger in these dark hours of Pan-Africanism. 
 
AMINATA DIALLO, COLONEL, SPOKESPERSON, GUINEA MILITARY JUNTA: The brotherly peoples of Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Guinea aspire to more recognition and 
 
 respect for their sovereignty.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO: Absolute scenes in West Africa, the club of coup plotters sticking together because if the regional block echo us were to make good on the 
 
 threats to militarily intervening in Niger and drive out the military junta and reinstate President Mohamed Bazoum, there's no reason why they can't do 
 
 that in Mali or in Burkina Faso or in Guinea. So, unless they stick together the domino effect could take all of them out, Zain.
 
ASHER: All right, Larry Madowo, do stand by. Kylie, let me bring you in. So, we've seen now that Italy, Spain, France, all announcing evacuations. 
 
 Germany saying that, listen, if German citizens are in Niger and they want to hitch a ride with the French, they can do so, too. 
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
The U.S. is still sticking around at this point. U.S. soldiers are still combined to their military bases. But why is the U.S. not evacuating people 
 
 at this point in time?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, listen, they aren't giving us a definitive answer as to, you know, why there is an evacuation 
 
 happening right now. But when you read into what U.S. officials have said, it appears that they think that there is still a real possibility that 
 
 President Bazoum actually reassumes power as the democratically elected president of the country. And they really want to give that possibility the 
 
 time that it needs to actually come to fruition. 
 
So, they aren't pulling out, you know, they aren't carrying out an evacuation of U.S. citizens, as you said. They also aren't evacuating all 
 
 the U.S. diplomats from the country at this time. Now, that can change really quickly. And we have seen that change really quickly in a number of 
 
 instances around the world over the course of the last few years, even in Sudan, you know, just recently as the last few months. So, we'll continue 
 
 to watch that space. But what's very clear right now is that the U.S. position is that they believe that there is still the possibility of Bazoum 
 
 coming back into power. 
 
A Senior State Department official speaking with reporters here at the department yesterday, saying that they think the situation is not yet set 
 
 in concrete and they think that they should take that opportunity. So, that's clearly the door that they are pushing on right now. And of course, 
 
 notably, as you said, the U.S. military presence in the country, about a thousand troops, they are now constrained to the U.S. military base, so 
 
 they haven't been pulled out of the country. But they aren't doing, you know, any active military duties in the country at this time. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, it's interesting because the minute that the U.S. formally recognizes that there has been a coup in Niger, they would be required to 
 
 cut foreign assistance, to cut military assistance as well to Niger. Kylie Atwood, we have to leave it there. Larry Madowo, thank you both so much.
 
ASHER: Kyiv isn't claiming responsibility for a drone strike on the Russian capital, but a Ukrainian presidential adviser says Moscow is quickly 
 
 getting used to a full-fledged war. For the second time in three days, a skyscraper that houses several government offices was targeted in what 
 
 Russia is calling a Ukrainian terrorist attack. The Kremlin has since had government employees in the building work remotely. Meantime, CNN's Wolf 
 
 Blitzer got Washington's reaction to the attacks.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KIRBY, COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS, NSC: We are neither encouraging, nor we are enabling attacks inside Russia.
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Are you opposing those attacks?
 
KIRBY: We are neither encouraging, nor enabling. We had conversations with the Ukrainians about our concerns about attacks inside Russia. They can 
 
 speak to their target in what they're doing but --
 
BLITZER: What is the U.S. position? KIRBY: Our position is, we want to focus on the war inside Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: On the battlefield, Ukraine says its troops are making modest territorial gains around Bakhmut. This video appears to show soldiers 
 
 advancing and firing assault rifles at Russian positions near the embattled eastern city. Moscow claimed control of Bakhmut in May after months of 
 
 intense fighting. Our Nick Paton Walsh has just returned from an area close to the front line. Here's his report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
Nick Paton Walsh, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): The fight so fierce and victory so bitter, there is little left of Staromajorski to defend it from. No cover for troops, no structures, just 
 
 the dust of a tiny four-road village, the first gains of Ukraine's renewed full-throttle counter-offensive. So small but symbolic.
 
Russia even claimed Monday with constant shelling it had pushed Ukraine out of it again. Something these men fresh back from that fight would scoff at. 
 
 Krivbas (ph), his call sign, fought all the 10 days of the assault until the Russians finally fled. Here he is as shells rain around in the initial 
 
 advance.
 
When you assault under enemy shelling, he says you have nowhere to hide. That's the hardest part. They've since tried to assault again twice with 
 
 small groups. And he fought for here too, in Neskuchnyi, the town before it, where the Russians hid 200 troops in the basements, not even leaving 
 
 for the toilet, so, Ukraine attacked with a smaller force.
 
He takes us to where the Russians made their final stand, the school hall and its corridors. There is no love, says the wall. They seemed to relish 
 
 the nothing they brought and left no clues as to why they fought.
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
WALSH (on-camera): One of the hard things for the Ukrainians to understand is quite why the Russians are fighting so hard for here, Neskuchnyi and the 
 
 more recent victory of Staromajorski down the road. Is it that these are their last lines of defense? Well, no, they think there's far more fighting 
 
 to be done. 
 
UNKNOWN: I hope that when we get through their last line of defense, he says, then they start to run. For now, they still feel there is something 
 
 behind them. Yeah, we feel support, but we are very, very tired.
 
WALSH (voice-over): There is so much more ahead to come. Ukraine may have put in its reserves now to the fight, but they face the same Russian 
 
 brutality. Their tactics haven't changed, he says. They put the Storm Z convicts in front with no communications or information. They stand till 
 
 the death. I don't understand their motivation or what they're fighting for. Reaver (ph) carries a new Russian AK-12 as a trophy as he describes 
 
 the gas they used on him.
 
There was chaotic shooting, he says, to find out where we were. Then the gas. You don't feel it. It moves slow along the ground. I was packing my 
 
 rucksack when I felt burning on my throat and nose. One mine sapper, call sign Volt, is busy telling me how the Russians have started booby-trapping 
 
 mines putting a grenade under an anti-tank mine when he's interrupted. Almost endless, the noise of outgoing fire. They are moving, but just not 
 
 sure how much longer for. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN. Neskuchnyi, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Relentless rain is pounding Beijing for a fourth straight day following one of the worst storms to hit China in more than a decade. At 
 
 least 11 people in the Chinese capital have died in downpours triggered by Typhoon Doxori. The storm dumped months' worth of rain on the city in just 
 
 48 hours. CNN Weather estimates that Beijing, home to by the way nearly 22 million people received a 175 millimeters of rain. More than 127,000 people 
 
 have been evacuated from the area.
 
In the meantime, forecasters say another hurricane-level storm is on its way. Khanun is the sixth typhoon projected to hit China this year. 
 
 Forecasters expect storm tides to hit coastal areas of Shenzhen until Thursday. And Japan has ordered more than 600,000 residents to evacuate the 
 
 country's southern Okinawa island chain. CNN's Jennifer Gray has been following this extreme weather for us. So, I mean, Jennifer, as if one 
 
 typhoon wasn't enough. There's another one on its way. Just walk us through it.
 
JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yeah, right on its heels. We're looking at this next one. And it is equivalent to a Category 4 Hurricane. But this 
 
 typhoon is making its closest pass with Okinawa right now. You can see from the satellite imagery. We have a distinct eye right there in the center. Of 
 
 course, the strongest winds associated with the storm are going to be right outside that eye right along the eye wall. And then the farther out you go, 
 
 the winds will decrease. But look at that, just really defined passing very closely to Okinawa. 
 
So, here's some pictures that we have from earlier. So, conditions have deteriorated since then, but you can see just some tower cams shaking, 
 
 indicating some windy conditions. We have trees blowing. In a moment, you'll see white caps out on the ocean that guarantee you those air much 
 
 rougher seas right now as the storm is getting closer and closer. 
 
So, winds right now 250 kilometers per hour. Gust of 260. This was moving to the West Northwest at 15 kilometers per hour and on the latest forecast 
 
 track, which I have to say there's a lot of uncertainty with this track, but we do expect the storm to start to weaken a little bit. It is going to 
 
 stall out and then expect it to say it pulled back out to sea. So, it's going to cross back over the southern islands of Japan in the next several 
 
 days. Now, depending on how soon that stall happens and when it takes that turn, there's still a lot of uncertainty.
 
And here are the forecast models. I don't think I've ever seen so much disagreement with one storm ever. So, this storm, there's a lot of 
 
 uncertainty, but according to the official forecast and some of the more reliable models that we have, it is taking it very close to the coast of 
 
 China and then pulling it back out. So, we are going to get some really strong winds along the coast of China, Zain, as well as some really rough 
 
 seas, windy conditions, and torrential rain.
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
ASHER: All right, Jennifer Gray, we'll keep an eye on it, live for us there. Thank you so much. UNESCO has recommended listing Venice as an 
 
 endangered world heritage site. They say the Italian city has suffered damage to its buildings, environment, and cultural heritage from mass 
 
 tourism as well as climate change. Separately, the agency has recommended that Australia's Great Barrier Reef should not be placed on a list of 
 
 places considered to be in danger but they warned that the world's biggest coral reef ecosystem remains under serious threat and urgent and sustained 
 
 action is needed to preserve it.
 
All right, we are nearing the end of the group stage at the Women's World Cup, with the round of 16 looming this weekend. Two more countries booked 
 
 their tickets to the elimination stage a few hours ago in Australia. Fourth ranked England overwhelmed China in a dominant 6-1 romp, while Denmark 
 
 scored a late second goal to finish off Haiti 2-1. Both victors now advance out of Group D. And the U.S. is advancing to the round of 16, as well, very 
 
 nearly almost didn't after a late scare against Portugal came perilously close to handing the Americans an early exit. Here's our Andy Shulz with 
 
 more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
USA CHEERERS: USA, USA!
 
ANDY SHULZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The U.S. Women's National Team in an unfamiliar position at the World Cup. 
 
UNKNOWN: We thought it would be an easy win for us and we thought we'd already be on the road to victory but tonight's a big game. 
 
UNKNOWN: We support this team, we love them but just a little anxious. 
 
SHULZ (voice-over): Those anxious feelings would last deep into the match with the U.S. and Portugal tied at zero all the way into the 91st minute 
 
 when the U.S. would find themselves inches away from elimination. Ana Capeta nearly a heroic goal for Portugal. With the Netherlands beating 
 
 Vietnam handily, that goal would have doomed the U.S. Megan Rapinoe entering the game in the 61st minute, but was unable to provide a spark. 
 
 The match would end scoreless, but the result? Good enough to earn second place in the group and advance. 
 
ALEX MORGAN, 2-TIME WOMEN'S WORLD CUP WINNER: Yeah, it's tough to be second. We wanted to go through first. I mean, this team gave everything. 
 
 We just didn't put the ball in the back of the net. And in the last few minutes, we just had to hold it down. We had to get the result and move on. 
 
 And now we look forward. 
 
SHULZ (voice-over): This was the worst performance ever for the U.S. in the group stage, winning just one game. The results, not what U.S. fans were 
 
 expecting from the two-time defending champs. 
 
UNKNOWN: All I have to say is that the U.S. really needs to get their (BEEP) together because, you know, we can't make it through the knockout 
 
 stages like this. 
 
SHULZ (voice-over): The slate though now is wiped clean. It's on to the round of 16 where the U.S. women have never lost. 
 
RAPINOE: We're thrilled to be going on to the next stage. It's exactly what we wanted out of this match, ultimately, is to have another one. So, on to 
 
 the round of 16. Excited to see who we play.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: And barring a huge surprise, the U.S. will draw perennial rivals. Sweden next this coming Sunday. And that could be a tough matchup for the 
 
 Americans. Sweden is one of the few teams that's been able to break their international dominance, defeating the U.S. in the last two Olympics. 
 
All right, coming up, it seems hard to imagine, but Donald Trump's legal troubles could actually be getting worse. A rundown of what charges he 
 
 could be facing next when we come back. Also, a humanitarian crisis is growing by the day in Chad. We'll look at what's being done to fill basic 
 
 needs for the thousands fleeing the war in Sudan. And fans and co-stars are mourning the shocking death of a young up-and-coming actor. We'll have a 
 
 live report for you next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: The eyes of the political world are focused on Washington today, not on Congress or the White House, but on a courthouse that lies between them. 
 
 And that's where a federal grand jury investigating Donald Trump's efforts to overturn the 2020 election results is meeting right now. The former U.S. 
 
 president has been telling supporters he expects to face charges soon. Trump has already been indicted twice since launching his 2024 presidential 
 
 campaign. And his legal problems, hard to imagine, but actually appear to be growing in Georgia.
 
The District Attorney says that she'll decide whether to charge anyone for the efforts by Trump and his allies to overturn the 2020 elections there by 
 
 the end of the month. We're expecting that to happen in about a couple of weeks from now. To help us wade through all of these cases, let's bring in 
 
 CNN Legal Analyst -- Senior Legal Analyst, excuse me, Elie Honig. So, Elie, just walk us through this. We know that the grand jury meets on Tuesdays 
 
 and Thursdays. So, what are the chances we see an indictment today?
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: Well, they feel high. We're going a little bit on gut instinct there, but I think we can point to some reliable 
 
 markers. First of all, it appears as if Jack Smith has spoken with all the relevant witnesses or nearly all the relevant witnesses, including people 
 
 in Donald Trump's inner circle. And if we look at the prior indictment that Jack Smith obtained against Donald Trump last month, in that case, he sent 
 
 a target letter to Donald Trump warning him that he might be indicted. Twenty days before the actual indictment came down, Jack Smith sent Donald 
 
 Trump another target letter. In this case, that was now 16 days ago. 
 
There also was this sort of last-ditch meeting between Donald Trump's team and Jack Smith. That happened three days before the last indictment. We are 
 
 now at five days since that meeting happened. In this case, so there's no precision to these numbers, but I think it gives you a sense that we are 
 
 towards the very end of the end game.
 
ASHER: Right, so pretty much any moment now is when we're expecting it. Once this indictment does drop, I mean, what are you looking for? How much 
 
 detail are you expecting? What charges are you expecting to see? 
 
HONIG: So, first of all, I do think we will see quite a bit of detail. Sometimes indictments can just give you sort of the wrote-charging 
 
 language, but Jack Smith has shown in his prior indictment that he tends to give a narrative with some evidence and with some detail. I think we'll see 
 
 the same here. Based on the target letter that Jack Smith sent to Donald Trump's legal team, it sounds like the emphasis here is really much more on 
 
 the run-up to January 6th. The weeks and months between the election and January 6 itself, then on the actual physical Capitol attack. 
 
It looks like Jack Smith is investigating potential charges relating to conspiracy and obstruction of an official proceeding, meaning he's focusing 
 
 on the effort by Donald Trump and others to essentially steal the votes in seven states through fraud and through intimidation, and I think less so, 
 
 if at all, on the actual speech Donald Trump gave that immediately preceded the physical attack on the Capitol.
 
ASHER: It's interesting because it's hard to imagine that Jack Smith actually believes that Donald Trump acted alone in his efforts to perhaps 
 
 overturn the 2020 election. At this point, when do you expect Jack Smith to go after other people related to this?
 
HONIG: I would be astonished if the only person charged in this case was Donald Trump. Just look at the actual conduct here. It's sweeping. And 
 
 clearly, Donald Trump was not the only one involved. There is a strategic approach, which it seems Jack Smith may be taking, where you charge Donald 
 
 Trump first and alone in order to maximize his chances of getting Donald Trump to trial more quickly. 
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
But it could well be that, if that happens, we then see additional charges that would follow. Those could be against some of his lawyers who have been 
 
 tied up in this. We have seen allegations made relating to Rudy Giuliani, to Sidney Powell, to other lawyers, John Eastman and Jeffrey Clark. There's 
 
 also other senior advisers in the White House who could have some issues here, including the former Chief of Staff Mark Meadows. So, we don't know 
 
 for sure, and it wouldn't surprise me if we see this thing rolled out in waves, starting with Donald Trump and then with others following. 
 
ASHER: It's interesting, because as you point out, even though, you know, part of this is about January 6, it also encompasses the broader effort to 
 
 overturn the 2020 election results. What does that mean in terms of the level of overlap between this potential indictment and the potential 
 
 indictment we will likely see from Georgia? 
 
HONIG: Well, there could be overlap and the DOJ indictment actually could subsume, could overtake the DA's indictment down in Fulton County, which is 
 
 Atlanta, Georgia. It appears that Jack Smith is going to be focused on what we sometimes call the seven-state effort that Donald Trump took to try to 
 
 steal the vote in Georgia and six other states. And if that's the way Jack Smith charges this case, then that will cover most of the conduct that Fani 
 
 Willis, the D.A. is likely to cover, as well. She may have a different gloss on it or have a little bit different level of detail. 
 
Now, there's no legal bar to the D.A., to Fani Willis charging if Jack Smith covers the state of Georgia in his charge, but it will raise 
 
 questions about is this additional charge necessary, is it duplicative, is it just sort of political opportunism. So, that will be really relevant 
 
 when we see the order in which these cases roll out. 
 
ASHER: We'll be watching what happens later today very, very closely. Elie Honig, live for us there. Thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
HONIG: Thanks, Zain.
 
ASHER: All right, military rulers in Myanmar have pardoned five of the charges. Aung San Suu Kyi was previously convicted of reducing the ousted 
 
 leader's total prison sentence from 33 years to 27. She still faces sentences for 14 other offenses. The Supreme Court is set to hear some of 
 
 Suu Kyi's appeals over the next two weeks. The 78-year-old denies all of the charges against her, calling them politically motivated. 
 
All right, still to come. Four Nigerian men discover the most perilous way to cross the Atlantic Ocean. We'll hear from one of them, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: Hello and welcome back to One World. Let's catch up on the headlines. Andrew Tate is once again appealing a decision from a Romanian 
 
 judge to keep the self-proclaimed misogynist influencer and his brother under house arrest for another 30 days. The Tate brothers face charges 
 
 including rape and human trafficking. It's not clear when the judge might reach a decision. 
 
And Senegal says Ousmane Sonko's party is now dissolved over last month's violent protests. The opposition leader is accused of plotting an 
 
 insurrection, among other charges. His lawyers say he spent Monday night in prison. Protesters clashed with police again this week. 
 
And Kenya is offering to lead an international force that would help Haiti's police fight gang violence. The U.N. Secretary General is now 
 
 backing the proposal. He's asking other countries, especially near Haiti, to join. Haiti had asked the international community for security help last 
 
 year. 
 
And thousands of people who have fled the war in Sudan are now seeking refuge in Chad. The conditions may not be much better than back home as an 
 
 overwhelmed neighbor struggles to help.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER (voice-over): A storm at a refugee camp in Chad. Double trouble for the Sudanese living here. Victims of the latest refugee crisis in Africa, 
 
 fleeing fighting between the Sudanese army and the RSF, the Rapid Support Forces. With plastic bags for carpets, sticks for structure and nylon for 
 
 shelter, they stand no chance against the cold. 
 
NAJMUDDIN (through translator): Since the previous rainfalls, some people do not even have a tarpaulin sheet to cover them from rain. Today, the 
 
 situation is very difficult because there's too much wind, there's no food available, the conditions are extremely difficult and even the tents have 
 
 not been set up well. The water seeps into them.
 
ASHER: And their children have it worse.
 
NAFISA (through translator): My son is sick with inflammation and since we fled we have been sitting like this with water over our heads. 
 
ASHER: The tarpaulin and branches on the ground are what's left of this woman's refugee home. Devastated and alone, she can't hold back the tears.
 
ISLAM, SUDANESE REFUGEE (through translator): This is the humiliation that we're experiencing. My elder brothers would have built us houses to live in 
 
 if they were alive. 
 
ASHER: Since conflict escalated in Sudan four months ago, more than 2.6 million people have been displaced within Sudan, and more than 800,000 have 
 
 fled the country, creating one of the fastest growing refugee crises in the world.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: All right, time now for The Exchange and a closer look at Sudanese refugees who are pouring into Chad and what they face once they arrive. 
 
 We're joined live now by Patrice Dossou Ahouansou, the Deputy Representative of the U.N.'s refugee agency, UNHCR, in Chad. Patrice, thank 
 
 you so much for being with us. 
 
We know that about 300,000 refugees from Sudan have arrived in Chad. I mean, some of them have lost multiple members of their families. Many of 
 
 them don't have much to eat in terms of what they have they transported with them, many of them going hungry, of course. Just walk us through what 
 
 is the greatest need at this point for the new Sudanese refugees who are arriving in Chad.
 
PATRICE DOSSOU AHOUANSOU, DEPUTY REPRESENTATIVE, UNHCR CHAD: Thank you, thank you, Zain, for having me on your show. It's a good opportunity to 
 
 continue drawing attention on the influx of Sudanese refugees into Chad, and most importantly, on the conditions, you know, they are going through 
 
 and the living conditions they have in Chad --
 
ASHER: All right.
 
AHOUANSOU: -- it worked after many hours or sometimes many days of walking. 
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
It's -- some of them a few that was a very few using the horses to come. And all that will have some means also are using public transportation. You 
 
 know, to come to Chad and seek asylum. The needs are very down. They come to Chad in a very profound, with very profound impact of trauma they have 
 
 experienced. As you have just mentioned, you know, many family separation because of killings and because of also the horrendous violation of human 
 
 rights that some of them went through way back in Sudan. 
 
So, needs are urgent in psychosocial and mental health support that is needed for almost all the refugees, because as you know, 93 percent of the 
 
 refugees are women and children. We have needs in sanitation, needs in shelter, in nutrition, in health, and also needs to continue providing the 
 
 protection services. 
 
And we need to hear, to once again recognize the generosity of the Chadian government, providing access to territory for all the refugees so that they 
 
 can seek asylum in Chad. And also, thank all the partners, you know, who are providing urgent response at the border in the spontaneous site. But is 
 
 it enough? No, the response is still very limited. Yeah, this is what I can say for now. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, and just walk us through just the sort of pressure all of this is putting on Chad itself. I mean, Chad is a country that is hosting one of 
 
 the largest numbers of refugees in Central Africa. And this is sort of the second round of refugees we've seen coming in from Darfur. It wasn't so 
 
 long ago, about 20 years ago, they received a significant number of refugees in 2003 from Darfur, which of course borders Chad. Just explain to 
 
 us how much pressure Chad itself is under.
 
AHOUANSOU: As you know, Chad has a, we are in a political transition and the government has many, many priorities whose communities, as you know, 
 
 are the first. We can call them the first humanitarian actors because they are the ones welcoming refugees and also demonstrating the generosity. And 
 
 sometimes sharing what they don't have, because most of the areas where refugees are being hosted don't have adequate infrastructure or sometimes 
 
 when they have infrastructure, the infrastructure or the services are limited. So, that is where we step up. 
 
So, the pressure on the host community is very high -- is high because there were dire needs in the host community, even before the conflict. And 
 
 as you rightly mentioned, the Eastern child were hosting or was hosting more than 400,000 refugees before the new conflict in Sudan. So, the host 
 
 community is sharing what they don't have and the host community is welcoming the refugees. 
 
And also the closure of the border and the fact that the business between the two, you know, is not running adequately because of the closure of the 
 
 border also put high impacts on the host community. That is why the response we are providing needs really to include or to continue including 
 
 the host communities. Even if we are doing it already through the services we put in place, jointly with partners, we need to step up. We need to step 
 
 up --
 
ASHER: Yeah and you bring up --
 
AHOUANSOU: And ensure that not only -- yeah. 
 
ASHER: You bring up such an important point because it's not just in Jemena, it's also, you know, the host families, the people who are 
 
 chatting, who actually live along the border near Darfur who have so much pressure put on them in order to supply the basic needs to the refugees. I 
 
 do want to ask you one quick question. Is -- just how are the refugees battling the elements just in terms of the weather, the temperature? 
 
I just checked before I came here on air that the temperature right now in this particular part of the world is roughly around 96 degrees Fahrenheit, 
 
 36 degrees Celsius. It's very, very hot. And then, on top of that, they're dealing with things like sand storms, it's about to be the rainy season, as 
 
 well. How are ordinary people, these refugees, battling just the weather?
 
AHOUANSOU: I mean, right now, you know, we are in the -- it's true, it's very hard. So, also --
 
ASHER: All right. Unfortunately --
 
AHOUANSOU: -- activities that UNHCR, the government, and all the other partners are undertaken. 
 <br>[12:40:00]
 
ASHER: Yeah, Patrice, we're having -- there's a delay and on top of that, you know, your microphone unfortunately does cut in and out so we are 
 
 having some technical difficulties but, you know, thank you so much for such a great conversation and actually, you know, thank you so much for 
 
 highlighting -- for highlighting the sort of mental health that a lot of the refugees can go through now. I actually can hear you. Thank you so 
 
 much. But we are out of time, Patrice. But thank you so much for coming on the show. We really appreciate it. We're very grateful for your time. 
 
All right, now to an incredible story of survival. Four Nigerians rescued after spending two weeks hiding inside of a cargo ship within close range 
 
 of the cold ocean waves. They made the journey as stowaways crossing the Atlantic in a tiny space over the rudder. They say they had to drink 
 
 seawater after running out of food and water 10 days in. One of the men explained he had little option but to leave his home behind, but didn't 
 
 have a passport or money to get a visa.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMAN GOIMENE, NIGERIAN MIGRANT: So, I live by the highlands. I looked. There are foreign vessels coming. So, I decided, if I have an opportunity 
 
 to enter a vessel, I don't care to know where they are taking me to.
 
ASHER: And they were in for a surprise. The four men who were hoping to reach Europe actually ended up in Brazil. That's where federal police 
 
 rescued them. Two of the men have since returned to Nigeria, while the other two have applied for asylum in Brazil.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: All right, after the break, what goes up must come down. We have the latest misstep from Elon Musk's Twitter rebrand. Also ahead, China is 
 
 getting ready to launch new rules for artificial intelligence. We explain how Beijing wants the tech to comply with socialist values. All of that 
 
 more after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: All right, X marked the spot, but not for long. In San Francisco, crews have dismantled a huge flashing X on top of the building, formerly 
 
 known as Twitter's headquarters. On Friday, the city's building inspection department issued the company a violation notice after receiving at least 
 
 two dozen complaints. Elon Musk's company will also have to pay fees for permits that it did not get. 
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
And elsewhere in the world of tech, China has become one of the first countries to build guardrails for the technology that powers popular 
 
 artificial intelligence services. Recently unveiled guidelines will take effect in about two weeks. CNN's Kristie Lu Stout has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over): Meet Xi Jiajia, a virtual idol powered by artificial intelligence to sell burgers in China, McDonald's 
 
 hired Jiajia to interact with Chinese customers. The U.S. may be curbing A.I. chip exports to China, but the nation is fast becoming an A.I. 
 
 powerhouse. The country is home to top tech firms leading the AI charge like Alibaba, Huawei, Tencent, and Baidu, creator of Xi Jiajia, boasts that 
 
 its chatbot Ernie has beaten OpenAI's ChatGPT on several metrics. At the state-backed World AI Conference in July, billionaire entrepreneur Elon 
 
 Musk praised China's AI prowess.
 
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA MOTORS: China will have very strong A.I. capability, is my prediction.
 
LU-STOUT: China has become one of the first countries in the world to regulate the technology that powers popular services like chat GPT. In 
 
 July, it unveiled interim rules to manage generative AI, saying it needs to be in line with the core values of socialism. 
 
ANGELA ZHANG, CHINESE LAW PROFESOR, UNIVERSITY OF HONG KONG: The Chinese government is trying to ensure that the use and application of A.I. will be 
 
 aligned with its own set of moral principles that underscores its political and social stability. The government not only placed a burden on the 
 
 service providers, but also on the users of AI services. 
 
LU-STOUT: In January, China's new rules against deepfake technologies came into effect. Chinese authorities have detained people for allegedly using 
 
 generative A.I. to commit fraud and create fake news. And while China is moving fast to regulate the industry, some critics warn that it may not be 
 
 equipped to avoid an A.I. disaster. 
 
BILL DREXEL, ASSOCIATE FELLOW FOR TECHNOLOGY AND NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAM, CNAS: Most societies kind of learn from disasters, but the PRC has a kind 
 
 of propaganda machine that makes it hard to do that, where there's a sort of disaster amnesia. There's a kind of a chronic culture of crisis 
 
 mismanagement in authoritarian regimes generally, and China's no exception. 
 
LU-STOUT: Drexel cites China's Zero-COVID Policy as a recent example of crisis mismanagement. But the danger posed by A.I. is not limited to one 
 
 country. Top technologists the world over, including China, have signed this petition to warn of the risk of human extinction from AI. 
 
SAM ALTMAN, CEO OPENAI: As these systems get very, very powerful, that does require special concern. And it has global impact. So, it also requires 
 
 global cooperation. 
 
LU-STOUT: China's new A.I. rules have a provision to encourage participation in global standard setting.
 
ZHANG: They are very keen to take part in shaping global regulation of A.I. 
 
LU-STOUT: For now, Beijing is steering its own A.I. future with a heavy hand to encourage Chinese tech success and ensure that artificial 
 
 intelligence will not undermine the state. Kristie Lu Stout, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: A zoo in eastern China is trying to reassure visitors that their sun bears are not people dressed in bear costumes. Rumors and conspiracy 
 
 theories have been swirling on social media after a viral video of a sun bear standing on its hind legs looking uncannily human and appearing to 
 
 wave at the crowds there. Its fur appears loose and wrinkled in places almost like, you know, an ill-fitting, up-bear suit. Sun bears are the 
 
 world's smallest bear species and the zoo insists that people simply just don't understand their behavior. 
 
All right, coming up Hollywood is mourning Angus Cloud, a rising young actor who quickly became a fan favorite for his role in Euphoria.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: This is the moment matching a police report filed in Las Vegas on Monday. Rapper Cardi B hurling her microphone at a concertgoer, who by the 
 
 way threw his drink at her or her drink at her on stage. Police haven't issued a citation, much less an arrest warrant, but it's another strange 
 
 entry in what's been a running trend lately, people throwing objects at performers on stage. And that has performers like Cardi B retaliating 
 
 themselves. 
 
All right, meantime, Hollywood is mourning the shocking death of a rising star. Twenty-five-year-old Angus Cloud, best known for his breakthrough 
 
 role on the HBO hit series Euphoria, died on Monday. The cause of his death is still under investigation. But in a statement, his family said he had 
 
 buried his father a week earlier and intensely struggled with that loss, adding that Cloud had been open about his battle with mental health. 
 
CNN Reporter Chloe Melas joins us live now. I mean, this is so sad. I mean, this is shocking. So many people who are fans of that show are devastated. 
 
 Just talk to us a bit more about Angus Cloud and the role he played on "Euphoria", and the impact that he had. I mean, this is a man who was 
 
 waiting tables. He had no previous acting experience. He was waiting tables and was discovered by a casting director. His life changed overnight.
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Zain, I think that you have put it perfectly. He is somebody who was this breakout star in Hollywood, starring 
 
 on "Euphoria" for, you know, two seasons since its inception with -- and he had never acted before. Like you said, he was walking down the streets of 
 
 Brooklyn when a casting director approached him and said, you'd be perfect for this role. And he thought it was a joke. And then he went on to be on 
 
 the show that's been in the zeitgeist of pop culture for the past couple of years alongside Zendaya and other people whose stars have risen with this 
 
 popular show. 
 
We know that he had struggled, like you said, with the death of his father he had taken to social media and he posted a tribute to his dad with a 
 
 photo just last week. And according to this statement from his family, he had taken it very hard and it had been a devastating time and that he was 
 
 very close with his father who was living in Ireland and that they had just buried his dad last week. 
 
So, obviously an incredibly sad moment for his friends and his family who just lost the patriarch of the family. And now they're losing their son, 
 
 their brother, their cousin. That is just, I feel so terrible for the Cloud family right now. And then not to mention, he had such an impact in 
 
 Hollywood for the short amount of time. You know, he was just 25 years old at the time of his death and he made such an impact. This was somebody who 
 
 had a very bright future ahead of them, Zain. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, and of course we still don't know what happened, but as you point out, he had buried his father, I believe the week before. He hadn't 
 
 taken it well at all. It was devastating for him as it would be for anyone. But Chloe Melas, thank you so much for bringing that to us. 
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
And finally, the world's largest movie theater chain has reported record sales week. Thanks to the box office craze of "Barbie" and "Oppenheimer". 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: AMC says both movies helped the company make more revenue last week than it ever has in its 103-year history. A lot of that was driven by the 
 
 film's incredible opening weekend in the U.S. Barbie, which is distributed by CNN sister company Warner Brothers, grossed more than $150 million 
 
 alone.
 
All right. Thank you so much for watching One World. I'm Zain Asher. Amanpour is up next. You're watching CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END