Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Census Data on Jobs; New Generation of Labor Organizers; Woods Competes in PGA Tour. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired February 16, 2023 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:31:29] 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DOLLY PARTON, MUSICIAN (singing): Working nine to five, what a way to make a living. Barely getting by.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR: Love the song. Love the movie. Working nine to five. That may have been true when Dolly Parton sang that song back in the '80s, but now that seems really like a luxury. A growing number of Americans are working not one, but two full-time jobs. And it's not just about a side hustle for extra cash. In many cases, it's really to make ends meet. 
 
So, Harry Enten is here to break down this morning's number. 
 
Good morning to you. So, what's the number? 
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: OK, this morning's number is 373,000. That's the Americans who work two full-time jobs in 2022. That's up 61 percent since 2013. Up 22 percent since 2019. 
 
LEMON: Wow.
 
ENTEN: So, a massive jump. 
 
And what's so interesting about that massive jump is compare it to other ways that Americans might be working, right? Full time is working 35 plus hours a week. Look, the Americans working just one full-time job, that's up only 1 percent since 2019. Americans working two jobs, one full-time, one part-time, that's actually down 4 percent since 2019. 
 
So, the Americans that are working two, both full-time jobs, up 22 percent since 2019 is truly an outlier, Don. 
 
LEMON: So, who are the people working these two jobs? 
 
ENTEN: Yes, so, here's the question, who are the people who are working these two jobs? Is it people who are working because they want to make a ton of extra money, right? If we look at each workers median family income, if you're working one part-time job, the family median income is $60,000 to $75,000. If you're working one full-time job, it's $75,000 to $100,000 on the family median income. And then, look, it's the same for those working two jobs, one full, one part, and two working both full-time jobs, $75,000 to $100,000. 
 
So, the idea is, it's not these people who are going in and trying to make gobbles and gobbles of cash. Essentially, these people who are working two full-time jobs are basically trying to get back to the point of those who are making just one full-time job. 
 
LEMON: But there are different demographics who are doing this, right? 
 
ENTEN: There absolutely are. So, take a look here. What percentage of workers are black? Full time, again, working 35 plus hours a week. If you're working one part-time job, 10 percent of those workers are black. One full-time job, about 12 percent of those. Two jobs, one full, one part time, about 15 percent of those are black. But two, both full time, 21 percent of them are black. 
 
LEMON: Wow.
 
ENTEN: So, black Americans are making up a much larger share of those who are working two full-time jobs than say just working one full-time job. 
 
And there is one other group. It's males. It's males. So, take a look here. Those Americans who are working one part-time job, 38 percent of them are males. But take a look here. Working two full-time jobs, 61 percent. A much larger share are males than they are of, say, the rest of the groups. 
 
LEMON: Some very interesting numbers. Thank you, Harry Enten. 
 
ENTEN: Thank you, Don.
 
LEMON: Appreciate it.
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: So, we're not just seeing shifts in how much people are working, but also in what they want from their bosses. I'm talking about unions. A new generation of labor organizers is popping up in industries that traditionally were not ones with a big union push. Baristas, warehouse workers, grocers. What do they want? When do they want it? Here's what a labor organizers told our Audie Cornish. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ERICA SMILEY, ORGANIZER AND ACTIVIST: The purpose of organizing, and the purpose of movements isn't just to win a particular issue or particular right. It's to win long-term dignity, sustainability and the ability to engage in decision-making for all aspects of your life forever. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: CNN's Audie Cornish joins us now, the host of "The Assignment with Audie Cornish." 
 <br>[08:35:02]
 
A fabulous podcast. 
 
I'm looking forward to that episode. 
 
I'm fascinated by this. This sort of sweeping of corporate America with unionization movements. And I think a lot of people would take issue with that statement I just made -
 
AUDIE CORNISH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes.
 
HARLOW: Because the numbers are down from a decade ago. But they started popping in the last year or so. 
 
CORNISH: So, to putting it in perspective, overall, union participation, which is the number you're talking about -
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
CORNISH: Is still quite low. What's different is the number of union petitions and drives. That went up more than 45 percent last year, which means that people are forming small unions, or at least nosing into that territory and reaching out to the national labor relations board to have that conversation. And it's happening in places that traditionally, and by traditionally I mean just the last couple of years, seem totally impenetrable. Amazon, Trader Joe's, Starbucks, you name it, there are these small union drives happening. Tesla is dealing with one today where they're being accused of retaliating against workers who had just begun a union drive. 
 
HARLOW: Yes, I saw that.
 
CORNISH: So, some of these companies are in the midst of a reckoning as you have this participation creeping up on their shop floors. 
 
LEMON: Are there - is this - it's not your grandmother or grandfather's union, right? Is it - is it different? 
 
CORNISH: Yes, that's what we talked about on the podcast. We actually spoke to a 23-year-old barista who is one of the so-called Memphis seven. They had been fired by Starbucks for unionizing and the federal government said that that was unlawful and had to reinstate them. An she said herself, I only thought like sort of burley men and construction workers - she -- she had a very sort of limited idea of like who could unionize and why. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: Yes.
 
CORNISH: She was like, I didn't know me making a cup of coffee could unionize. And it - the truth is, in Starbucks in particular, it happened in Buffalo and in Memphis, the workers themselves, out of the pandemic, which is another important issue here, are the ones who said, we've got some conditions we don't feel good about, and they started to organize themselves. And you're seeing that over and over again, people organize themselves and then they reach out to the larger labor unions for that infrastructure and support. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. And you've covered this, Poppy, so intensively. I feel like it does seem like a new generation of what unions look like. 
 
But I guess a question I have is why, because one thing I was reading is, you know, Starbucks in Chicago, the management told workers they should discourage people who aren't paying customers from using the restroom or spending any time in the store, and the employees did not like that. They were pushing back on that. And that is part of what drove them to do this. 
 
CORNISH: Yes, and, Poppy, I'd love your opinion on this because I think some of these CEOs, especially like your Starbucks or your Trader Joe's, they're like, we're the nice guys. We have such an amazing culture.
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
CORNISH: You know, Google is the same thing. Some of these workers are pushing for your typical wage, labor, benefit support and better conditions. After the great resignation, so to speak, when people kind of moved jobs, well, when they got to their new jobs, they were like, well, I - I want to be treated well. I have different ideas about what it means to be in a supportive work environment. I want to speak up if I feel like I'm being abused. It's a different generation that is more willing to speak up. 
 
HARLOW: Yes, I think just - just point of fact is that I find it really interesting what's happening because it's -- this union push is happening at a number of really progressive companies. So, Starbucks is arguably one of the most, if not the most, progressive company. They've given health care to their workers, this before the Affordable Care Act, right. One of the higher wages. Free college tuition. And so that's what the CEO of Starbucks, Howard Schultz, points to and says, we've give all of this, right. 
 
What the union wants, Starbucks Workers United, is, in their word, power sharing and accountability. A seat at the table. They want to directly negotiate for that. So, it's different than just saying, we want a higher wage, we want this. I just --
 
CORNISH: Yes, but that is a traditional model when you think of the Detroit Three and sort of - 
 
HARLOW: Right, it is.
 
CORNISH: I'm sorry, the carmakers and union people there. And we should note that when it comes to Starbucks, they implemented changes at the stores that apply to everyone but the union shops. 
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
CORNISH: So, the sort of -- I won't call it officially retaliation, but we -- this is the year we're going to see some of these corporations fight back. HARLOW: Yes. And so, this is why Howard Schultz has been subpoenaed in
 
 March. He is - not subpoenaed, excuse me. This is why Howard Schultz has been invited to testify in March. 
 
CORNISH: Right.
 
HARLOW: We'll see if there's a subpoena. He has declined. Starbucks is going to send someone else. I just spent a few days talking to him about all of this. So, you'll see it on the program next week. But it is fascinating and I think it's really an important moment for these - for all of these voices. 
 
LEMON: Issues are quite different, especially, I would imagine, coming out of Covid, too. There are things that people - and they want to work from home and they want -
 
CORNISH: Exactly. That was a big thing.
 
HARLOW: That's a really good point. That's a really going point.
 
CORNISH: You're seeing a white collar unionization movement as well. Again, companies that previously we thought nobody would want to unionize there, and now they are. 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
HARLOW: Thank you, Audie. I can't wait to listen to the episode. 
 
COLLINS: Yes, absolutely. Such a good look.
 
HARLOW: Be here so tune in. "The Assignment with Audie Cornish." Available now wherever you get your podcasts. 
 
COLLINS: And also a special treat. Audie is going to be joining us tomorrow. Don's going to be off. Poppy's going to be on assignment, anchoring from Salt Lake City. 
 
HARLOW: You're going to have a lot of fun.
 <br>[08:40:00]
 
CORNISH: I've got my -- my hoodie at the ready. I - I am here to -
 
LEMON: You're good. 
 
CORNISH: Just leave your glasses behind. 
 
LEMON: You -
 
COLLINS: The glass cleaner. 
 
HARLOW: Can't wait for that.
 
LEMON: This is -- this is a hot seat, but you will be able to handle it, I'm sure. 
 
CORNISH: I appreciate it. 
 
LEMON: Yes, my only - I wish -- I wish I was here to be with all of you tomorrow. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. And you're going to be in Utah, Poppy. 
 
HARLOW: I'll be in Utah. We're going to cover the NBA all-star weekend. I will be interviewing three members of the iconic inside the NBA crew, Shaq, Charles Barkley, Kenny Smith. 
 
LEMON: Uh-oh.
 
HARLOW: I can't wait. I'm not going to try to dunk. Not going to try to do anything fancy. 
 
COLLINS: (INAUDIBLE).
 
HARLOW: But I can't wait to be with them. You know, they're never candid or anything, right? 
 
LEMON: You should be sitting at the table with them. I'd like to see you do -
 
HARLOW: We're going to do that. We're taping that this afternoon. 
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
HARLOW: You'll see is tomorrow morning on the show. I'll also sit down with the Utah Jazz owner Ryan Smith, and the WNBA commissioner, Cathy Engelbert. So, see you, if I wake up in the middle of the night tomorrow. It's like 2:00 a.m. or something there that I have to get up. 
 
COLLINS: You've got to tell Charles Barkley I said Roll Tide.
 
HARLOW: OK, I obviously will for you.
 
Just into CNN, we've got some new jobs data from the Labor Department. And 194,000 first time applications for new unemployment benefits last week. That's down a little bit from the week before. New unemployment claims continue to hover around historic lows. The Fed has raised interest rates eight times over 11 months trying to get this under control, but the battle to bring down prices has not crushed America's white hot jobs market. 
 
COLLINS: Also today, Tiger Woods is returning to competitive golf. The first time in seven months. He wants everyone to know he is playing to win. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TIGER WOODS, 15-TIME MAJOR CHAMPION: If I'm - if I'm playing in the event, I'm - I'm going to try and beat you. I'm there to get a "w."
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:45:21]
 
COLLINS: It's a big day for Tiger Woods fans. My dad, including him. And the man himself, Tiger Woods, not my dad, is returning to competitive golf today at the Genesis Invitational in California, marking his first official PGA event since July. 
 
CNN's Stephanie Elam has more from the Pacific Palisades. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TIGER WOODS, 15-TIME MAJOR CAMPION: I would not have put myself out here if I didn't think I could beat these guys and - and win the event. That's my mentality.
 
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A confident Tiger Woods, making it clear he wants that win at the Genesis Invitational this week. An event he's hosted since 2017. 
 
Held at the Riviera Country Club in swanky Pacific Palisades, the tournament holds a special place in Woods' historic career. At 16, he played his first PGA tour event here in 1992. But he's never won it. Now, 47, Woods will make his 2023 tour debut at the invitational despite still battling pain from injuries he sustained two years ago in that terrifying car accident while in town for this same event. 
 
SHERIFF ALEX VILLANUEVA, LOS ANGELES COUNTY: That he's alive and well is - is good. It's nothing short of a miracle considering the damage. 
 
ELAM: His right leg was broken in multiple places. His bone protruding through his skin. Plus, other injuries, and several surgeries. 
 
WOODS: The leg is better than it was last year. But it's - it's my ankle. And so being able to have it recover from day to day and meanwhile still stress it, but have the recovery and also have the strength development at the same time, it's been a intricate little balance that we've had to dance. 
 
ELAM (on camera): Did you think he would ever play golf again after that car accident? 
 
KEVIN VAN VALKENBURG, EDITORIAL DIRECTOR, "NO LAYING UP": I'm going to be honest and say, no, that I didn't think he did. He's been pretty upfront about the fact that he could have very easily lost his leg. And then now play tournament golf is kind of bonkers. 
 
ELAM (voice over): But Tiger's success on the course may hinge less on his golf game and more on what his body will let him do. 
 
BOB HARIG, GOLF WRITER, "SPORTS ILLUSTRATED": If you didn't know what you know, you'd say, wow, Tiger looks pretty good. The problem is, is getting to the ball. 
 
ELAM: Golfers are required to traverse the course themselves. No golf carts. So, for Tiger, the biggest challenge may be walking 72 holes in four days. Yet some of his competitors are glad to see Tiger return to his natural habitat. This being only his fourth official event in the last two years. 
 
SCOTTIE SCHEFFLER, 2022 MASTERS CHAMPION: We didn't know if he was -he was going to be able to do this again. And so just to have him out here on the grounds and to see him around doing what he loves to do is a lot of fun for us. 
 
JUSTIN ROSE, 2013 U.S. OPEN CHAMPION: His golf game looks great. Really good sign to see him in the field and feeling willing and able to kind of get out here. 
 
ELAM: And while there have been injuries when injuries kept Woods off the green, every time he does return, fans clamor to see him. 
 
VAN VALKENBURG: He is still like the biggest planet in the solar system. Nothing really matters quite like Tiger. 
 
ELAM: As for that win, could he actually snag it? 
 
HARIG: I would never say never with Tiger. I think you do that at your own peril.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELAM: Now, as far as that win goes, I'm told it's highly unrealistic that Tiger could pull that "w." However, if he does make the cut, that would be a huge accomplishment in and of itself. But, Poppy, Don, and Kaitlin, I've got to tell you, yesterday I was here and I saw Tiger come up off the course. The energy that starts to buzz when that man is around -
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
ELAM: He has done so much for this game, still does, and he is still very much doing so much for PGA and that tour overall. The man is really an entity unto himself when it comes to this game. 
 
COLLINS: Yes.
 
LEMON:  Yes.
 
COLLINS: Seventy-two holes in four days. 
 
HARLOW: Wow.
 
COLLINS: Only something that someone this their prime could do, Stephanie. 
 
PHH: Touche (ph), Kaitlan. 
 
COLLINS: Let's not bring Stephanie into this.
 
LEMON: The whole point of this was like -- 
 
ELAM: What is Kaitlan getting at here? What is Kaitlan trying to say? HARLOW: Oh, just go back to the 6:00 a.m. hour. Replay it. 
 
LEMON: The whole point is that -- the whole point of the package was that, oh, my God, I can't believe he's performing so well at his age and with his injuries. 
 
COLLINS: Yes, I think, yes, given what he's been through. He's had a crazy, crazy career.
 
LEMON: Given what he's been through. Yes. So, there you go. Thanks for proving my point. 
 
ELAM: I think because he almost died. Maybe that part. He almost - he could have died in that car accident. That's really what's phenomenal. 
 
HARLOW: Maybe that. Maybe that.
 
COLLINS: Yes, absolutely.
 
LEMON: Thank you.
 
COLLINS: Stephanie, thank you. 
 
HARLOW: Thanks, Steph.
 
LEMON: Donna Kelce was one of the biggest stars of Super Bowl week after her boys made history in the big game. How they reacted to her very special moment. That's up next.
 
HARLOW: Awe. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JASON KELCE, CENTER FOR THE PHILADELPHIA EAGLES: The moment I saw mom is when I got really emotional because, man, it was so awesome. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:54:38]
 
HARLOW: A huge crowd lining the streets to celebrate the Kansas City Chiefs' second championship in four years with the star tight end Super Bowl champion Travis Kelce's mom, Donna, our favorite - second favorite mom in America -- sorry, mom -- was there. Travis and his brother Jason became the first brothers to ever play against each other in a Super Bowl. They got emotional talking about their mom's moment in the spotlight. 
 <br>[08:55:05]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JASON KELCE, CENTER FOR THE PHILADELPHIA EAGLES: The moment I saw mom is when I got really emotional because, man, it was so awesome. TRAVIS KELCE, TIGHT END FOR THE KANSAS CITY CHIEFS: All right now? 
 
J. KELCE: Yes. Oh, man (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
 
It was awesome for - you know, she was on top of the world for - for a week. 
 
T. KELCE: She was the heavyweight champ, man. 
 
J. KELCE: Ironically, you know, you lose the Super Bowl and you're crying after the game, and they're not tears of sadness, you know, they're tears of joy. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: I mean that warmed even my cold heart. 
 
HARLOW: No. 
 
COLLINS: That was amazing. 
 
LEMON: As a mama's boy, I totally relate. I'm sitting here tearing up. That is fantastic. 
 
Can I tell them what you just said? 
 
HARLOW: Fine. Sure.
 
LEMON: Luca - so, Poppy has been out of town on assignment. And when you got home - was it when you got home?
 
HARLOW: Uh-huh, last night.
 
LEMON: Luca said, I feel it in my body when you're gone, mommy. We (INAUDIBLE).
 
HARLOW: And now I'm getting on another plane. I feel like a terrible mom. 
 
COLLINS: You're not. You're an awesome mom. And we all know it.
 
LEMON: Awe, I'm so glad - we're glad you're back, Pops.
 
HARLOW: CNN news -
 
LEMON: Luca's not the only one who's glad your back.
 
HARLOW: Thank you. Thank you.
 
CNN "NEWSROOM" is now.
 
COLLINS: You're an awesome mom.
 
HARLOW: Awe, thank you.
 
LEMON: Have a great weekend. See you, guys. HARLOW: That's why I feel -
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:00:00]