Headline: Erin Burnett Outfront
Sub-headline: Israel: No Hostages Will Be Released Before Friday; IDF Says Video Shows Hamas Command Room Under Gaza Hospital; New York Governor: "No Indication" Border Explosion Was Terror Attack; North Korea Claims Spy Satellite Reached Orbit. Aired 7-8p ET

Aired November 22, 2023 - 19:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[19:00:54]
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN HOST: OUTFRONT next:
 
Breaking news, Israel now says there will be no hostages released until Friday, at the earliest. A pause in fighting is also delayed. 
 
I'm going to speak to the father of an American woman who could be one of the hostages released. 
 
Plus, is this a Hamas command center? Israel releasing new video tonight of what they found underneath Gaza's largest hospital. 
 
And also breaking, new details tonight about what caused a car to explode at a U.S. border checkpoint, a deadly crash that sparked a massive federal response. 
 
Let's go OUTFRONT. 
 
Good evening, everyone. I'm Kate Bolduan, in for Erin Burnett. 
 
OUTFRONT tonight, the breaking news, a surprise delay in the agreement between Israel and Hamas. No hostages to be released before Friday and no pause in the fighting until then. 
 
To be clear, up until a few hours ago, for -- Israel was planning for the first of 50 hostages to be released in just under eight hours from now, and those 50 hostages are expected to be women and children. U.S. officials say they have a working list of who they believe likely is to be released, including three Americans. The little Abigail Edan is one of them. Her fourth birthday is Friday.
 
And in a moment, I'm going to speak to the father of another American hostage being held captive by Hamas, Liat Beinin. 
 
For the hostage is not part of this deal, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, confirming tonight, the Red Cross will be allowed to visit and provide medical care to them in Gaza. In exchange for this, Israel has agreed to release some 150 Palestinian prisoners, though Netanyahu also is making clear, this temporary pause in fighting will not last. Israel's war with Hamas is not over. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Citizens of Israel, I'd like to be clear, the war continues. The war continues. We will continue with it until all our goals are achieved, to bring back our hostages, to demolish Hamas. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: Now we have team coverage, our reporter standing by on all of this, Matthew Chance is in Tel Aviv, Alex Marquardt is in Washington. 
 
Matthew, first to you. What are you learning about this sudden 24-hour delay in the deal? 
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: Well, that's taking place, we don't know exactly why it is but, we know that it also means not just that the hostages aren't going to be released tomorrow, but not until at least Friday. But it also means that, of course, the pause in the hostilities that was meant to start at 10:00 in the morning, local time, here, about eight hours from now will not go ahead. Perhaps that will be pushed another 24 hours as well. 
 
We don't know the reasons for it. Israeli officials have told CNN that it's just very small details. We can imagine the logistical complications in getting, you know, a hostage release of this magnitude together. In a place like Gaza, which has been badly destroyed over the course of the last several weeks, you know, of Israeli bombardments. So, that may be a factor. 
 
It's also been suggested CNN by Israeli officials that there is not, you know, there's been no signing of a deal yet by any of the parties, by Hamas or by Israel, or in the, by Qatar, that brokered this deal, helped broker it. And so, all of these may be complicating factors that have just set this back to a period beyond where we thought it was going to start. It doesn't mean it's going to be derailed, no one is suggesting that. In fact, all the indications are that it will go ahead when these problems have been ironed out. 
 
Of course, it's immensely frustrating for those people involved, particularly the loved ones, the hostages, waiting so, you know, painfully for those releases to happen. 
 
BOLDUAN: And, Matthew, what then, what is the next step? Is it just a waiting game now to hear that it's not necessarily guaranteed in 24 hours this is all going to happen? 
 <br>[19:05:00]
 
CHANCE: It's not guaranteed, no. But I mean, look, there seems to be, you know, an impetus towards this thing actually happening. I mean yes, there are some problems. It is logistically more difficult than it was originally anticipated, but that does not mean, as I say, that this is not going to happen. I mean already, you know, we've got guidance from Israeli officials about how they anticipate this will take place. 
 
There will be, you know, a movement of Israeli hostages as of Gaza through the Rafah crossing into Egypt, then crossed back into Israel. I'm told by Israeli officials that in three different locations, children amongst those hostages that have been released who are under the age of 12 years old will be met at the border by their loved ones, their families, others above the age of 12 will go straight on the hospital, where everybody will eventually be taken, to receive medical checkups. You know, and many more on their condition, obviously. 
 
But you know, the Israelis are making plans for this reception, this hostage release, to take place. Equally, they are getting ready to release Palestinian prisoners as well. That is the flip side of this deal, 150 or so prisoners held in Israeli jails. Palestinians held in Israeli jails. They will be released, I'm told, from three different Israeli jails back to where they originally came from, mainly, I'm told, in the West Bank. 
 
BOLDUAN: Also, not only getting this deal together and getting to agreement, dress the logistics of how this is going to happen is also so complicated, as you are laying out. 
 
Great reporting, Matthew. Thank you so much. 
 
So, the Biden administration is hopeful that three Americans are among this group of hostages to be released. Little Abigail Edan and the two other women. The story of one American woman held hostage is one that we have followed closely on this show, Liat Beinin. Her husband is also being held by Hamas right now. They were kidnapped from kibbutz Nir Oz. 
 
OUTFRONT with me now is Liat's father, Yehuda Beinin. 
 
Yehuda, thank you so much for joining me this evening. Are you hopeful tonight your daughter will be one of those released in the coming days? 
 
YEHUDA BEININ, FATHER OF AMERICAN WOMAN HELD HOSTAGE BY HAMAS: I think that all along, I made it very clear that I refuse to get caught up in the Hamas's mind games, and I'll be happy when I see my daughter released. Until then, I'm -- I'm not with giving any particular hope or any particular outcome. 
 
We saw, as you described in your opening, the hostage release was delayed by a day. We were informed of this, by the way, by the IDF. So, it's the news that you're presenting is not news to me. So, okay, it is what it is. 
 
BOULDAN: You can control what you can control, which is essentially, it seems like, how you feel and your emotions in this moment, because others have described it as being such an emotional rollercoaster that's kind of hard to maintain. Just staying stable because you are dealing with a terrorist organization which cannot be trusted. It seems that might be the safest place to be until you see who's actually coming across that border. 
 
BEININ: It's work for us, for my wife and I, up until now, and that will continue to be the key to being able to remain functioning throughout this ordeal. BOLDUAN: Yeah.
 
Have you allowed yourself, you and your wife, to think about seeing Liat again, what you want to say to her again in the belief and hope that she will be released? 
 
BEININ: First of all, the process, the technical process, has been pretty well-explained by the army. So, it's a very controlled environment. After being delivered back to Israeli hands, she will be taken to a hospital, I imagine. Not clear which one. And the army will ensure that we get to meet her. 
 
Obviously, there will be a debriefing of some sort. I am assuming that in this case, the American authorities will also want to speak with her, and then she is free. She will have to decide, will -- have to decide where she wants to hang out, until -- until she is ready to move on. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yeah.
 
BEINEN: There are also three children involved here, and -- I have to say. 
 
BOLDUAN: That's what I was going to ask you. How -- how are the boys doing? 
 
BEINEN: Everyone is fine. 
 <br>[19:10:01]
 
All the kids are fine. There are two boys and a girl, a woman. 
 
BOLDUAN: I'm sorry. 
 
BEININ: They are all made in their parents mold. They are strong, stoic, and they are handling the situation rather well, to be perfectly honest. 
 
BOLDUAN: I heard you say in a previous interview that your daughter is afraid of nothing and that she is tough, something that she definitely will need to rely on for a long time to come. If and when, let's say it that way. Liat is released. Based on what we know of this deal. Her husband is still going to be, will remain behind, will still remain hostage. 
 
I mean, how do you deal with that? 
 
BEININ: Well, based on your report, they're supposed to be access by the Red Cross and treatment if necessary. So, at least we will know, we will have some information about what the situation is regarding Aviv. Then I assume that the Israeli government and the citizens of Israel who are involved in securing the release of the hostages will have to decide how to move forward with that. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yeah. Yehuda, thank you for coming on and speaking to us tonight. BEININ: Okay, sure, thank you. 
 
BOLDUAN: Joining me also right now is Chris O'Leary. He's a former director of hostage recovery for the U.S. government and a former FBI agent. 
 
Chris, this pause in fighting and this pause in the release of the hostages, this delay -- what do you read into it? 
 
CHRISTOPHER O'LEARY, FORMER DIRECTOR OF HOSTAGE RECOVERY FOR U.S. GOVERNMENT: I think it's probably just logistics. I think there's too much inertia on this deal to have it not go through. I think Israel has signed off on it, it's to Hamas's benefit. So, I don't think they will renege on it. 
 
But as you highlighted just a few moments ago, there are terrorist organization. You cannot trust anything they are saying. There may be a deliberate reason why they are pausing, they may be just doing it for additional effect, to, you know, create uncertainty and to terrorize further, or just could be logistics. 
 
I mean, it is a war zone, it is Gaza. Hamas is not a high performing organization. They are not Microsoft here. They're a terrorist organization that is haphazard in many things that they do and they are living in Gaza, which is, you know, in rubble right now. 
 
BOLDUAN: The first couple days of the hostage release is, will be treated as the way it's been described, as kind of a testing period. What exactly, leaning on your experience, what exactly does that mean? In hope -- is it -- is it trying to establish any kind of, quote/unquote, level of trust to see if this actually can continue? 
 
O'LEARY: Sure, that's exactly what it is. Again , now if I'm Israel and I'm negotiating with Hamas, and I've negotiated with terrorist organizations before, I've spent a career fighting terrorism. So, it's odd to be in the same room with these folks and trying to come to some kind of negotiated deal, especially when you spend your life pursuing them. 
 
But, you know, this is the world -- this is what Israel has to face right now. But remember, six weeks ago, they just massacred 1,200 of their citizens. So now, you know, you're putting aside that grievance temporarily, so you can get some innocent victims out, up to 50, hopefully. And hopefully this comes together. 
 
BOLDUAN: The Red Cross factor of this, when Netanyahu said today, the Red Cross is going to be able to go into visit and offer medical support to the other hostages who will remain still after these 50, he also said this almost in the same breath of the war continues, to bring back the rest of the hostages and also to demolish Hamas. How does the Red Cross assistance work, given that? 
 
O'LEARY: It is extremely unusual. I'm heartened by it. The Red Cross can go in there as a legitimate, you know, organization and assess the status of the hostages, give medical treatment, but then also report back who is there, identify them. That is not something that happens with terrorist organizations. Hamas
 
 is not a nation state. They're not a legitimate government. They're not a legitimate fighting force. 
 
So, where the Red Cross has authority to go in is if there's, you know, a traditional war and there's actually legitimate combatants on each side. I cannot point to a situation, but I can recall where something like this has happened. And I think we talked earlier, hostage taking is a violation of international law. It's against the 1979 convention against hostage taking, so that's number one. 
 
Even if Hamas was illegitimate fighting force and a lawful war, it's against the Geneva Convention. 
 <br>[19:15:04]
 
You cannot take hostages. Where the Red Cross comes in, is they get to visit prisoners of war. So, although I'm happy that the Red Cross is getting to go in, because we are going to be able to get we more information and get the status of people, it's giving Hamas some legitimacy potential, unintentionally. 
 
And that's a little bit of concern. They are a terrorist organization. 
 
BOLDUAN: It's very interesting. It's good to see you, Chris. Thanks for coming in tonight. 
 
OUTFRONT next, our breaking news continues with new reporting on how the Biden administration is working to secure the release of the hostages not part of this initial deal. 
 
Plus, bedrooms and a kitchen. New video of what Israel says it found under the Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza. A spokesman for the IDF is our guest. 
 
And also breaking, new details on why a car exploded at the U.S.- Canada border, as we're getting new video of that crash. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BOLDUAN: Tonight, explosions continue to rock Gaza. The pause in fighting is now delayed 24 hours, ahead of the expected release of women and children being held hostage by Hamas terrorists. And even after this hostage release, the fate of the vast majority of those still being held captive remains very much in question. 
 
The White House saying today that President Biden has been, quote, personally engaged in negotiations. 
 <br>[19:20:04]
 
Alex Marquardt is OUTFRONT in Washington for us. 
 
Alex, what are you learning about the status of negotiations for the rest of the hostages held by Hamas? ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Kate,
 
 we've heard repeatedly from U.S. officials that they say they will not rest until the rest of the American hostages come out, aside from these women and children that the U.S. will stay very much engaged for all of these hostages. 
 
But those conversations really have not begun in earnest yet. The main focus really has been on getting these women and children out, making sure that this mechanism works. It is believed that the easiest negotiations with Hamas where to get these women and children out, and that's assuming, of course, that this all goes according to plan, that these 50 or more actually come out in the coming days. 
 
I was speaking with an official who is involved in these conversations, briefed on the negotiations, who told me that this first swap of 50 people is the most crucial, to make sure that this mechanism is working as was agreed. So, assuming this goes smoothly, you then have, as you say, the vast majority of the hostages who remain, and they really do fall into three distinct buckets. You have men who are both elderly and non-Israeli nationals, then you have Israeli soldiers, both men and women, and then you have bodies, people who were killed either on October 7th or since then. 
 
U.S. and Israeli officials agree that the most difficult negotiations are going to be around the Israeli soldiers, both the men and the women. No one in Israel, certainly, has forgotten the exchange of Gilad Shalit back in '11 -- 2011. He was held for years by Hamas and when he was exchanged, Hamas was able to get more than 1,000 prisoners out of Israeli prisons. So, it is possible that the conversations about the rest of the hostages begin soon. But it could be quite some time before the rest of those hostages come home, Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yeah, I've heard weeks, months, how it's described to me via a couple people just today. 
 
It's good to see you, Alex. Thank you so much. 
 
OUTFRONT with me now, Jonathan Dekel-Chen. His son, Sagui, is among those kidnapped by Hamas, now nearly seven weeks ago, still captive in Gaza. 
 
Jonathan, thank you for coming on tonight. Given what we know about this agreement, it does seem unlikely that Sagui will be among those released in this -- in this moment. What then does this moment feel like for you? 
 
JONATHAN DEKEL-CHEN, AMERICAN SON TAKEN HOSTAGE BY HAMAS: Well, I think it's two pulls. The first pull is assuming that Hamas can deliver on its promise here, that these 50 women and children will be released, I am overjoyed for them. 
 
Keep in mind that for my kibbutz alone, from my one community alone, there are still 75 hostages being withheld by Hamas. It's since October 7th. Of the list that has been published, there are multiple, multiple children and women -- including Liat Atzili, who you spoke with her dad before a few moments ago. These were all my neighbors, my friends, my kids' friends, my grandchildren's friends. 
 
So, I couldn't be more pleased for those families because it's like my extended family coming home. On the other hand, it is very difficult to say, in terms of Sagui and the other 190 hostages. Again, 190 hostages who aren't referred to at all in this stage of the agreement. 
 
It's almost impossible to say, given that Hamas is sort of a barbarian terrorist organization with no regard for human life, Israeli or Palestinian, for that matter. What this first stage might say about the coming stages. 
 
BOLDUAN: Do you allow yourself to think about that moment, when you will see Sagui again? I keep thinking of this, Jonathan, because it's like this moment of like being in a suspended nightmare. I almost envision it feels like being just seven weeks, nearly seven weeks now since that horrible, horrible day. I just wonder if you allow yourself to think about that moment. 
 
DEKEL-CHEN: Well, there is not a waking or even sleeping moment that I'm not thinking about Sagui in some measure and I could certainly visualize and love visualizing that his two little girls running into, leaping into his arms when he comes home, and, you know, in hopes that he comes home quickly. But if not, then meaning his third little girl who said to be worn in a couple of weeks. 
 
So, I absolutely have that in mind as something that I am working for towards, together with the release of all of the hostages. 
 <br>[19:25:00]
 
BOLDUAN: God, his poor wife and what she is going through, and about to bring another beautiful child into the world into this. Just unbelievable. 
 
How is she doing? Has the rest of the family handling this news right now of this deal? 
 
DEKEL-CHEN: Well, we are doing the best we can. It is a multi-level crisis, really, because not just Sagui's family, wife and two young daughters, but I have another daughter who lives on the kibbutz with another young family, so there are four little kids between the age of two and six who are utterly traumatized by this hell on earth that befell the kibbutz on October 7th. 
 
So, you know, missing our loved ones, those that were murdered, all of my grandkids. Again, from each 2 to 6, have close friends who are no longer alive, who were murdered in their beds, on October 7th. So, we have to deal with that. We also have to deal with the fact that our community, as a whole, our cooperative firm, like many others around the Gaza Strip, not just were massacred, but rather also have all of their properties stolen by hundreds, thousands of looters actually from Gaza. And then whatever could not be looted was burned to the ground. 
 
So, there is no going home for any of these kids or the adults. Our home as we knew it no longer exists. It's a series of tragedies that for us, Israeli civilians and honestly, for the Palestinian civilians as well, who find themselves in this horrible situation, not of their making, but by Hamas's making. 
 
We keep ourselves busy. I mean, in thinking about what the future will bring for us and for me personally, working, you know, with the press and with governments in Israel and abroad, keeping laser attention focused on this humanitarian universal issue and challenge of our hostages in the hands of Hamas, and taking care of the little ones the best we can, and trying to help them make sense of shattered lives. 
 
BOLDUAN: Make sense of what is impossible to make sense of. 
 
Jonathan, thank you so much. It's good to see you. 
 
DEKEL-CHEN: Thank you. 
 
BOLDUAN: Thank you. 
 
OUTFRONT for us next, what does the sudden delay in the hostage exchange and truce mean for Israel's military operation in Gaza now? An IDF spokesman joins us next. 
 
Plus, North Korea claiming it's just launched a spy satellite is about to be put to use. So, what is Kim Jong Un up to? A special report, ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:31:08]
 
BOLDUAN: Tonight, the IDF says it found two more tunnel shaft under the Al-Shifa hospital in Gaza. The same hospital Israel and U.S. intelligence say Hamas use as a -- has used as a command post. The IDF, also releasing new videos which it says is further evidence of Hamas infrastructure below the hospital. You are seeing this now. 
 
Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
IDF SOLDIER: You can see a small kitchen, so it will provide the food, water, et cetera. All these facilities of water and food are coming from the hospital, meaning they are using the hospital infrastructures. They are using the hospital infrastructures in order to provide this terror mechanism to stay alive and survive. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: The videos also show electricity throughout the tunnel shafts and even bedrooms. These videos were distributed by the IDF and CNN is unable to independently verify the findings. 
 
OUTFRONT with me now, Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus, international spokesperson for the IDF. 
 
Colonel, thanks for coming back in. The more time your soldiers are spending at the Shifa medical complex,
 
 what are you finding? What do you -- what do you -- what do you think it shows? 
 
LT. COLONEL JONATHAN CONRICUS, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES SPOKESPERSON: Hi, and thank you for having me. What we are finding is additional proof, and proof, and proof of what we have been saying all along, that Hamas uses hospitals in Gaza, all of the hospitals in Gaza, for their military purpose, in violation of humanitarian law. They have been lying about it from day one. We have been speaking the truth and we have shown it with visuals from the Qatari hospital, from the Rantisi hospital and now more so from the Shifa hospital. 
 
They've used it in order to hold our hostages there and they have been using it to run military operations. Now, when they do this, they are the ones who are actively endangering civilians at the hospital, putting them at risk, by conducting military operations in there. 
 
And I think it is very regrettable that, you know, ever since we share this information, this footage, I'm waiting for organizations to come clean. I'm waiting for the World Health Organization, for the Palestinian Red Crescent, for UNRWA, and for many other organizations that were fast to criticize us for our military operations, I'm waiting for them to say, yes, IDF, you were right, we were wrong. Hamas has been using hospitals in violation of humanitarian law and they should be condemned for it. 
 
BOLDUAN: Speaking of military operations, what does this delay in the truce for, these 24 hours, mean for your military operations in Gaza now, with relation to this hostage agreement? 
 
CONRICUS: It doesn't mean too much because this is, you know, we understand what type of an organization we are dealing with. This is an organization that has a proven track record of violating U.N. brokered ceasefires and other agreements. So, it is not a surprise that there are last-minute changes and complications. 
 
Our posture on the ground is the order to the troops on the ground is to continue to operate, to be vigilant whenever, and hopefully it will, but whenever the agreement comes into effect, and we will be able to get these hostages back. We know that we will have to be very vigilant on the ground. But until then, we continue to operate, we have a clear goal at task and we are going to continue to attack Hamas and dismantle their military infrastructure. 
 
BOLDUAN: Apologies. 
 
The former head of Mossad says that it will be much harder to start back up with the fighting and your military operation, once this truce sets in. 
 <br>[19:35:05]
 
Do you agree with that analysis? 
 
CONRICUS: You know, on the ground, it is a dynamic situation and pausing operations, it can be challenging, and we've seen that in the past. And of course, we would rather continue operations and keep the pressure on Hamas. We see that this pressure is effective, we see that they are losing a lot of combat capabilities, as we continue to fight in the densely prepared urban terrain, which is a good thing. 
 
Stopping isn't ideal, but stopping for a good cause is something that we are more than willing to do, because it is extremely important for us to get to or facilitate the safe return of at least 50 Israeli women and children that have been held by Hamas for 47 days. It is a legitimate concern and we have the directive given to the troops is to be vigilant and ready. 
 
Once the agreement is, I hope, successfully completed, then we will return to operations and the aim of the operation is to dismantle all of Hamas's infrastructure in Gaza. 
 
BOLDUAN: Colonel Conricus, thank you for your time. 
 
CONRICUS: Thank you. 
 
BOLDUAN: OUTFRONT with me now, Efraim Halevy, the former director of Mossad, Israel's intelligence service. 
 
Thank you so much for being here, Director. 
 
You heard my conversation with Conricus right than. He does not seem worried that with this pause in fighting, that it will make it any harder to start back up, once again, to resume the war against Hamas. What do you say to that? 
 
EFRAIM HALEVY, FORMER DIRECTOR OF MOSSAD, ISRAEL'S INTELLIGENCE SERVICE: Well, I'm sure that he is entitled to his own view on this, as I am, my view. I think there is a clearer possibility that once you slow down to rev up again is not always automatic. I think there is more and more evidence that the international community would like this war to come to an end in one way or another. I think that certainly, the president of the United States is of the opinion, as best I understood it, that the quicker it's possible to cease hostilities in the Gaza strip, the better. 
 
I think Hamas has suffered extremely heavy losses. I think Hamas has capabilities have been certainly curtailed, as much as we were able to do this. Whether it will be possible to remove Hamas from the face of the Earth, as the Prime Minister Netanyahu would like happen, and to bring Hamas to a point where it will say that it is no longer a viable military presence in the Gaza Strip, that remains to be seen. 
 
BOLDUAN: I want to ask you if you think that's possible, to demolish Hamas, as Netanyahu promised again today. 
 
HALEVY: I think it is desirable. I'm not sure it is possible. Hamas has been there for a very long time. It has an international aura to it (ph) as well, it's not only in Gaza, it's in other places in the Middle East. 
 
They have a presence in Qatar, for instance, which is now very active in bringing about the agreement on the exchange of hostages, and prisoners. But Hamas has also been, for a long time, one of the main players on the Palestinian scene, politically, not only militarily. And I think that this is something which might last much longer than just this particular round of hostilities. 
 
BOLDUAN: Director, thank you for your time. Thanks for coming in. 
 
HALEVY: Thank you.
 
BOLDUAN: OUTFRONT for us next, new details coming in about that explosion at the U.S.-Canada border. What does video of the blast reveal this evening? 
 
Plus, now back in the United States, we hear how one man managed to escape the massacre in Israel.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:43:09]
 
BOLDUAN: Breaking news, no signs of terrorism. That's the word from multiple officials tonight after a car exploded on a bridge on the border with Canada. The massive explosion in the wild scene was caught on camera. Surveillance video captured part of what happened. Two people were killed inside that car. 
 
This happened on the Rainbow Bridge near Niagara Falls in Upstate New York. 
 
Brynn Gingras is OUTFRONT with more on this for us. 
 
Brynn, this shut down that border crossing for hours and also causing massive federal response. 
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Kate, so much surveillance camera in the area looking to piece together what happened. What they believe right now is the driver of that car, is a western New York resident and they believe that person was driving at a high rate of speed for some reason. That car hit a curb and then going airborne, jumping several feet over a fence into a checkpoint there at that border crossing. 
 
So, that would explain some of the confusion as to where that car was coming from initially when this was being reported. Now, we know that the debris field stretches across several toll booths of that area according to the governor and there is really only the engine intact of that car. We also know from sources that they identified two people inside that car. 
 
Like I said, the driver, a resident of New York, and they were able to look into the person's social media. And that's one of the reasons why they don't believe that there is any terrorist threat here, so it's important to underscore that.
 
But as you mention to people were killed here and again, right now, at this time, it is heightened security around this state in particular. Again, it's important to underscore that no terrorist threat related to this. It seems to be some sort of accident that likely happened. But the investigation continues. 
 <br>[19:45:01]
 
BOLDUAN: Well, Brynn, thank you for the update. 
 
GINGRAS: All right.
 
BOLDUAN: OUTFRONT for us next, now safely in the United States, an Israeli man shares his story about his miraculous survival amid the massacre on October 7th, thanks to a soldier. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He just shot two rounds in the terrorist's head and killed him on the spot. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOLDUAN: And North Korea says its new spy satellite is ready to go.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BOLDUAN: Tonight, new video from a man who narrowly survived the attack on October 7th. He was shot at several times as he fled Hamas terrorists. 
 
Nick Watt is OUTFRONT. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ARIEL EIN GAL, HAMAS ATTACK SURVIVOR: This is a video from the party itself. Listen to the music. How absurd it is. This is Mo.
 
NICK WATT, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): One of his best friends, she will be dead in just a few hours. 
 
Dawn broke. Hamas terrorists were approaching in boats. 
 <br>[19:50:01]
 
The Israeli navy in pursuit. Hamas landed on the beach. 
 
Ariel and his friends hid between two shipping containers. 
 
GAL: You can hear the bullets hitting the metal containers. I will never forget the sound. 
 
WATT: They would've gone to the bomb shelter if they've known there was one. Every one else on the beach headed there was a public bathroom. Instagram video of them hiding.
 
GAL: One minute after we left ashore, the terrorist mounted the beach and went to the shelter and killed everyone there. They killed everyone. WATT: Hamas filmed the horror. 
 
You obviously don't know this is the time. 
 
GAL: No, I heard the gunshots. I heard the screams. I heard everything, and it was terrible. 
 
WATT: Ariel and his friends ran until they reached an IDF base. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (translated): Listen, you don't understand, what is going on here. Let us in!
 
WATT: Eventually they were let in. Some sent farewell messages to their parents. Ariel did not. 
 
GAL: If I would be dead, which I thought is most likely, at least they will have a few more hours without knowing that. We decided that we needed to get out of there. So we ran to the cars. 
 
The terrorists came out of the bushes and started firing at a source close range. Luckily for us the soldier was with us, a soldier, he just shot two rounds into the terrorist's head and killed him on the spot. 
 
WATT: They drove, saw an Israeli police checkpoint. 
 
GAL: We see a dead body lying on the ground, all dressed up in black, just like a police officer in Israel. Suddenly the dead body wakes up, holding an AK-47, and the terrorist just firing at us. 
 
WATT: So he was dressed as an Israeli cop? 
 
GAL: Yeah. And one of my friends got hit in the shoulder by a bullet. The other bullet went right above her head, and shaved some of her hair. 
 
WATT: Shaved her hair?
 
GAL: Shaved her hair. 
 
WATT: Eventually, they reached an actual Israeli police checkpoint. His injured friends taken to the hospital. I told you Ariel's Mo would die. She tried to drive to her mother's house. 
 
GAL: At 6:47, she's calling her mom. She's telling her that she's on the shelter. She's in the shelter and she will get home soon. That was her last contact with her, because when she went out of the shelter, they shot her dead. 
 
I made a tattoo from that day. It says 20 out of 21. We went 21 and we got back 20. Looks like the Holocaust numbers from Auschwitz. 
 
WATT: He came here after he saw what was happening here in America. 
 
GAL: And people who are our removing their David stars and removing every Jewish sign they have and I say to you, this is 1933 in Germany. No. It's the United States of 2023. And it starts to look similar to that. And I am very worried. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WATT: Now, Ariel Ein Gal says he has no issue with the Palestinian people, no hatred for that. In fact, he hates to see them suffering as they are now. 
 
Now, he was actually called up and was in this fight when he decided, after seeing the antisemitism being directed at Jews, the blame being directed at Jews, he decided to come to the United States to tell his story. 
 
And his message, this is not between Israelis and Palestinians. This is just between Israel and Hamas, just Israel against Hamas -- Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: Nick Watt, thank you for bringing us this story. 
 
OUTFRONT for us next, North Korea claims its new spy satellite is up and running. What is Kim Jong Un up to? 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:57:23]
 
BOLDUAN: Tonight, North Korea set the date for its first satellite's spy mission next week. 
 
Will Ripley is OUTFRONT. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As if the world doesn't have enough to worry about, rising tensions on the Korean peninsula. North Korea claims big progress in its satellite program. 
 
Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un appearing triumphant, posing for propaganda cameras with the team of North Korean scientists and engineers, celebrating an apparently successful third attempt to put a spy satellite into orbit. Two failed launches earlier this year. Pyongyang promises more satellite launches in the near future, satellites crucial to improving the accuracy of North Korea's intercontinental ballistic missile program, a program banned by the United Nations Security Council, possibly perfected with the help of Russian rocket scientists, acting on orders from President Vladimir Putin. 
 
Kim and Putin September summit at this Russian space launch complex signaling Moscow's growing support for Pyongyang's state space program, a partnership believed to be providing Putin with badly needed North Korean weapons, arming Russian soldiers on the battlefield of Ukraine. Putin told bait media reporters of the time, Russia would help North Korea, launch its own satellites and launch rockets, saying that's exactly why we came here. 
 
Japanese authorities issued an emergency warning, what they believe to be a satellite carrying ballistic missile soaring over Okinawa. FUMIO KISHIDA, JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Today,
 
 North Korea launched using ballistic missile technology. 
 
RIPLEY: The Japanese prime minister condemning the launch.
 
Swift reactions from South Korea, Seoul suspending military pacts with the North. 
 
HEO TAE-KEUN, DEPUTY MINISTER FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE POLICY, SOUTH KOREA: The North Korean regime is entirely responsible for this situation. 
 
RIPLEY: A troubling sign, even for locals, who live every day under threat from the nuclear armed North. 
 
BAE RA-MI, SOUTH KOREAN RESIDENT (through translator): The successful launch of North Korea's spy satellite means that their technology has approved that much. 
 
RIPLEY: We are at North Korea's brand new satellite control center. 
 
In 2015, I met with senior officials at North Korea's satellite control center. They insisted their purpose was peaceful space exploration, even expressing outrage at ongoing speculation they were secretly operating a ballistic missile development program. 
 
NORTH KOREAN SENIOR OFFICIAL (through translator): Our peaceful launch was not a threat yesterday, a threat to you today, and it won't be a threat tomorrow. 
 
RIPLEY: Tomorrow has arrived, and this may be just the beginning. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY (on camera): And tonight, signs the tensions are already flaring up, just hours ago, North Korea tried and failed to launch another ballistic missile from their capital area, and, Kate, we need to check very carefully in the coming days whether this spy satellite actually can conduct reconnaissance over places like Hawaii, Guam, Japan, where the U.S. military has more than 50,000 troops stationed. That is what the U.S. is going to be watching and monitoring, Kate. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yeah, a whole new side of this tension that nobody needs right now. 
 
It's good to see you, Will. Thank you so much. 
 
Thank you all so much for joining us. 
 
"AC360" starts now.