Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Asia Battered by Storms while U.S. Scorched by High Temperatures; Temperatures in Parts of Central U.S. are Above Average; At the Burning Man Festival, Attendees Take Cover; North Korea's Launch of Cruise Missiles was a "Tactical Nuclear Attack Simulation"; Maui Fires Aftermath; Paris Overhauls Access for 2024 Paralympics; Junta Leaders Announce Reopening of Borders; SpaceX Crew-6 Expected to Undock from ISS Begin Journey to Earth. Aired 04:00-5a ET

Aired September 03, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:00:00]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT:  Welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada, and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. Ahead on "CNN Newsroom", we'll tell you which areas of the country could be looking at record highs this Labor Day weekend.
 
President Biden gets a firsthand look at hurricane devastation in Florida. You'll hear what he's promising.
 
And a bipartisan delegation sees the impact of fires in Maui as the island tries to rescue its struggling tourism industry.
 
ANNOUNCER:  Live from CNN news center, this is "CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber."
 
BRUNHUBER:  From North America to Asia, we're seeing a wide range of extreme weather events, reporting the safety of millions of people at risk. Right now, Taiwan is getting battered by fierce wind and rain as Typhoon Haikui bears down on the island. We'll have more on that and live report from the island in a moment.
 
But here in the U.S., heat advisories are reported across the central region, they're expected to expand throughout the northeast throughout the Labor Day Holiday. CNN's Allison Chinchar has the details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Labor Day weekend usually marks the unofficial end to summer, but mother nature didn't quite get that memo as much of the central U.S. is going to be dealing with above- average temperatures. And then as we finish out the weekend and start the early next week, you're going to start to see a lot of that heat begin to spread into the northeast, as well as into the mid-Atlantic region of the U.S.
 
Take for example a lot of these cities, Omaha, Green Bay, and Chicago, all looking at temperatures in the 90s over the next several days. And they're not the only one. Minneapolis, for example, the average high this time of year is 78 degrees. The forecast on Sunday expected to reach triple digits. Now, not only will that break the daily record of 97 set back in 1925. It could also end up being only the second time ever in recorded history for Minneapolis reaching the triple digits in the month of September. The previous is all the way back in 1931 when they hit 104 degrees.
 
Now, that's one of the few spots that are going to end up reaching records. In fact, we're looking at over 100 possible records, not just in the Midwest but also spreading into the northeast and the mid- Atlantic just over the next several days.
 
Looking at the northeast, for example, New York. Looking at the next several days all with highs in the 90s. The average right now is 81. Washington, D.C., 90s the next few days, likely to top out at 100 by the time we get to Tuesday of the upcoming week. And again, you can this trend where all of that excessive heat, those above average temperatures not only expected to last the next few days, but we don't really see things cool off until we get to next weekend in many of these locations.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Conditions at the Burning Man Festival in Nevada have turned deadly. Now, we don't have many details about the circumstances or cause of death but authorities say one person has died during the latest round of rainfall at the event. Tens of thousands of people who are stranded at the Burning Man Festival have been told to conserve food and water, that's after the annual event in the Nevada desert turned into a quagmire that can be even seen in these satellite images.
 
Ankle deep mud is the results of two to three months-worth of rain falling in just one day. More than 70,000 people normally attend the free spirited counter culture event. Organizers are telling those who haven't arrived yet to turn around because even more rain is possible this weekend. Now, remember, this is normally an event where extreme heat and dehydration are the biggest dangers. Andrew Hyde is among those stuck down there. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDREW HYDE, STUCK AT BURNING MAN:  We're in a lake bed here. It's dry in the summer, so it's dusty and flat. But last night it rained, and it rained quite a bit for the desert and created a very mucky, muddy, terrible environment where you could barely walk. Vehicles would have made it impassable, and the whole festival and the 70,000-ish people out here just had to stay put.
 
When it was really wet, you couldn't do anything. You just live here. There's really no way to walk miles to, you know, get out of it. So, that's a bit concerning. It's a survival event. Like, you come out here to be in a harsh climate and you prepare for that.
 
So, in many ways everybody here just kind of made friends with their neighbors. It's a community event. It's about art and just, kind of, went back to the roots. I think almost everybody really enjoyed having it be extremely harsh. And we don't know what's going to happen tonight though, and that's the big concern because we might have just as much rain tonight. And if you couple that with last night, then we have a pretty big story and a pretty hard time getting out of the city collectively because those 70,000 people have to go out on the same road.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Now, Burning Man is known for the final event where a large wooden symbol of a man is burned. Gates to the site are still closed. It's not known yet when the roads will be dry enough to drive through.
 
At least two people have been injured in Taiwan as a Typhoon Haikui batters the island. Right now, it's coming ashore with sustained winds of 120 miles per hour, equivalent to a category 3 hurricane. Authorities have canceled flights, evacuated residents, mobilized troops, and suspended work and schools in vulnerable areas.
 
All right. Let's get more now from Journalist Andy Lee who is live in Taipei. So, Andy, what are conditions there now? What's heading your way? And how are folks preparing?
 
ANDY LEE, JOURNALIST:  Yes, Kim. Conditions here in Taiwan is deteriorating as we speak because this Typhoon Haikui, the eye of the storm has made landfall already in the eastern parts of Taiwan in an area called Taitung. So, in fact, the eye of Haikui is on the island of Tiawan right now.
 
So, people here are hunkering down. They have stocked up on food, dry food, instant noodles, especially candles and batteries just in case there are blackouts. Speaking of blackouts, the local power company is reporting that 9,300 households are already having blackouts. And in addition to that, two people were injured. There were a couple driving a van, the van was hit by a tree, and the van was severely damaged. They were sent to a hospital. Fortunately, they are OK right now.
 
Now, air transport. The Taoyuan Airport in North Taiwan, that's close. Southern airport, Taichung Airport also close. So, 226 plus domestic flights are canceled, plus 41 and more international flights are canceled. So, if our viewers are seeking flight to transit here in Taipei or destinations Taiwan, you have to check with your travel agent. This flight is definitely affected.
 
Now, Kim, I must mention this. Previously there was a typhoon, Saola, hitting Hong Kong, at that time there were three typhoons in existence. Typhoon Saola hitting Hong Kong, Typhoon Haikui impacting Taiwan right now. And Typhoon Kirogi (ph) up north near Japan. Three typhoons interacting with each other. This is extreme weather. And as our reporters previously mentioned, this planet is having above- average temperatures, and this is fueling the typhoon. It's typhoon season here in the Pacific. Back to you, Kim. BRUNHUBER:  All right. We'll check in with you next hour. Andy Lee in Taipei, thanks so much.
 
President Biden visited storm ravaged Florida on Saturday in the wake of Hurricane Idalia. Accompanied by the first lady, Biden viewed damage on the ground and by air. He also met with many whose communities were impacted by the storm, and with emergency workers on the ground trying to help.
 
Now, during his visit, Biden touted federal recovery efforts, so far. Saying, the government has a responsibility to help citizens in need and he urged Congress to approve disaster relief funding. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT:  These crises are affecting more than -- more and more Americans. And every American rightly expects FEMA to show up when they are needed to help in disaster. So, I'm calling on the United States Congress, Democrats and Republicans, to ensure the funding is there to deal with the immediate crisis, as well as our long-term commitments to the safety and security of the American people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Now Governor Ron DeSantis didn't join Biden's tour but another key Florida Republican did. CNN's White House Reporter Priscilla Alvarez has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER:  President Biden on Saturday visited Florida to assess the damage left behind by Hurricane Idalia. During his time there, he took a tour, as well as spoke with first responders and officials on the ground. Thanking them all for their efforts.
 
Now, during the visit, the president was joined by Florida Senator Rick Scott, as well as FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell. But noticeably missing was Florida Governor Ron DeSantis. Now, earlier in the week, it was expected that the two would survey the damage together. But later, DeSantis' office told reporters that that would not be the case.
 
Now, officials have maintained that the Biden administration, as well as the governor's office had worked together to plan for the visit and they mutually agreed on a location. But instead, DeSantis toured other parts of the state on Saturday. Now, when asked about this, President Biden said that he was not disappointed but he did call for Republicans and Democrats to come together in Congress for additional funding.
 
Just this week the White House added another $4 billion to their request for FEMA's disaster relief funds after already asking for $12 billion last month. The president making clear in his remarks on Saturday that that money is necessary as they see more disasters affecting more Americans.
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, traveling with the president.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  On Saturday, House Speaker Kevin McCarthy and other congressional lawmakers toured the devastation on Maui caused by last month's deadly fires. The bipartisan delegation also met with federal and local officials on recovery efforts. Republican have vowed to investigate the White House response to what happened. McCarthy had this to say after their find -- fact-finding tour. Here he is.
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA), U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER:  How can we make sure we find all those who are still lost and how do we rebuild? That's the important part of why we're here. We want to make sure we do it in the right manner. We want to work with the community. We want to be respectful for the history behind this area. We want to be respectful for the lives that were lost there. We want to get the resources to individuals that could rebuild their life.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Officials on Maui, meanwhile, are asking tourists to return to the parts of the island not devastated by fire. A little later in the hour, we'll hear from one manager about how businesses like his are struggling to get by.
 
Bill Richardson is being remembered as a diplomat who devoted himself to freeing wrongfully detained Americans. He died, Friday, at the age of 75. Richardson served as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations during the Clinton administration. He was also elected governor of New Mexico for two terms.
 
After a failed run for president, he started the Richardson Center for Global Engagement. And the organization offered aid to families of American hostages and detainees abroad. Richardson personally negotiated the release of many Americans from hostile nations, from Iraq, to North Korea. He told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that he truly believed in the power of diplomacy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BILL RICHARDSON, RICHARDSON CENTER FOR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT PRESIDENT AND FORMER NEW MEXICO GOVERNOR: My answer is engagement, dialogue, talk to bad people. You know, I've done it all my life, not that it's always worked. But you got to have a dialogue. You have an engagement. You can't just say, oh, this is terrible. What are we going to do? No. Let's deal with it. Let's have a strategy. Let's have a vision.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  The death of singer Jimmy Buffett is triggering an outpouring of condolences from who's who of the music world. From country stars Kenny Chesney and Toby Keith, to pop royalty Elton John and Paul McCartney. Everyone thought the world of Buffett, he had only one really huge hit a long time ago but that turned out to be enough to build a billionaire empire known as Margaritaville.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIMMY BUFFETT, SINGER:  Wasting away again in Margaritaville. Searching for my lost shaker of salt.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Fans have been leaving mementos in Key West, Florida, which Buffett called home. President Biden also offered his condolences. Calling Buffett, the poet of paradise.
 
Our Havana Correspondent Patrick Oppmann was close friends with Buffett for many years, and earlier shared one of his most personal memories.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN HAVANA-BASED CORRESPONDENT:  Here's a man who got paid millions of dollars to perform on stage with tens of thousands of people. And I remember one night here, you know, we had dinner with him. And he said, I'm going to go play a couple of songs, it was some Cuban musicians that he just met. And we ended up in someone's backyard with maybe 20 or 30 people. And I thought, he'll play a song or two and that'll be it. And he played until 4:00 a.m. in the morning. He was just having a great time.
 
Free concert in someone's backyard. I don't even know who these people were. We got done at -- and we went to go home finally. He was going back to his hotel and a Soviet limo -- it was a Soviet Zil limo that he -- one of Fidel Castro's that he rented. The driver taken off hours before because he gotten tired and he wanted to go home.
 
So, then we had to give Jimmy Buffett a ride home in our tiny car. And that's how Jimmy ended up sitting in our son's car seat, our son Nico, he was two years old, he's car seat. And I thought, this is just a mess. And Jimmy was cracking up because he said it was good training because he was hoping to fly to space with Jeff Bezos.
 
And I realized this is one of the most amazing nights of my life and yet this was every night of Jimmy Buffett's life. And he, you know, it was -- every day was an adventure. Every day was a discovery. And he had as much fun as anybody ever did on this Earth.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  More than 100 people, including almost 50 police officers, are hurt in a clash in Tel Aviv. We'll look at how a controversial foreign government's holiday celebration turned into a violent confrontation.
 
And just ahead, it's an all-out space blitz as several countries explore the final frontier. Our breakdown on the missions underway and the trips to come. Coming up next. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Israel prime minister says he's formed a ministerial task force to look for illegal infiltrators after a violent confrontation in Tel Aviv between rival Eritrean groups left more than 100 people injured. The violence erupted after supporters and opponents of the Eritrean government clashed in an event marking the country's Revolution Day. Police fired stun grenades and say some officers who felt their lives were being are threatened, fired live rounds.
 
CNN's Hadas Gold is in Jerusalem for us. So, Hadas, explain what's behind this?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. So, Kim, similar instances and violence have actually erupted in other countries that host large Eritrean population. Actually, just yesterday, there was a similar event in Sweden -- sorry, in Norway. Last month in Stockholm. In Sweden, more than 50 people were injured in another Eritrean festival. And in July, German police said at least 22 of their officers were injured in a similar situation.
 
So, liken those countries, Israel hosts thousands of Eritrean migrants. Now, many of these are asylum seekers. These are people who say that they fear the governing regime back in Eritrea. And Eritrea does rank rather low when you look at all the human rights indexes and the press freedom indexes. So, a lot of these asylum seekers say that they fear returning to Eritrea and what could happen to them there.
 
So, what happened yesterday in Israel was that the Eritrean government hosted an Independence Day celebration. Now, those who are opposed to the Eritrean government had already warned Israeli police, saying that this could turn violent because they did expect, liken these other countries that we saw over the last few weeks. Now, protesters would show up to try to stop the event from happening, and that's what we saw.
 
But the ferocity, I think, of these protesters and the violence that resulted in it, I think, that that caught some of the Israeli police off guard. We know of at least 100 people who were injured, including dozens of Israeli police officers. We know that at least 15 people are still hospitalized in serious condition, including two police officers.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
We also know there were several arrests and detentions made during this violence. I was actually in Tel Aviv yesterday. This went on for several hours. And we could see helicopters hovering overhead over Southern Tel Aviv as this was going on. There was extensive property damage to shops in the area, as well as vehicles.
 
Now, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he is convening a special meeting to look at potentially deporting some of what are -- what he called violent instigators of this. Seeing if they can deport some of these people. Keep in mind, some of them are asylum seekers. So, there's a question about what will happen now to these Eritrean migrants. And actually, similar statements from other officials have also been coming from other European countries, Germany and elsewhere where similar protests have erupted. Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Thanks so much Hadas Gold in Jerusalem.
 
The Iraqi government has imposed a full curfew in the City of Kirkuk after a violent protest there killed at least one person, and injured at least eight others. It happened when ethnic Kurds took to the streets to roadblock by Arabs and Turkmen. Those groups had blocked the road to protest the federal government's move to return bases that's used since 2017 to the Kurds.
 
In Niger, supporters of the military junta have staged a mass protest to demand the withdrawal of French troops from the West African nation. Tens of thousands of people attended the rally outside a French military base on Saturday. Many held signs condemning the ongoing presence of their former colonial ruler whose influence over the region has waned in recent years. But despite all that opposition, France has remained defiant. It's refused to recognize the junta's rule. And last week, it ignored demands to withdraw its ambassador.
 
Pope Francis is celebrating Sunday mass as his visit to Mongolia continues. It's the first ever trip to the Asian nation by head of the Catholic church. On Saturday, the pontiff met with secular and religious leaders and was greeted by small but enthusiastic crowds. Mongolia, which is sandwiched between Russia and China has a relatively small number of Catholics, only about 1,500 in a population of Three and a half million people.
 
Ukraine's southern port of Odessa reopens its beaches to swimmers and sunbathers even though the war is never far away. Those details when we return. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  And welcome back to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is "CNN Newsroom."
 
Ukraine says its troops are continuing their slow advance in the south against Russian forces dug in along the front lines. Russian-backed officials in the Donetsk region say, one person was killed, nine wounded by Ukrainian shelling of villages there. Ukrainian leaders insist the three-month old counteroffensive is making progress even if it's not as quick as some were expecting. And even in places where Russian forces have withdrawn, they reportedly leave behind landmines that slow the Ukrainian advance.
 
CNN's Katie Polglase is monitoring developments for us in London. So, Katie, again, you know, it's been a constant theme this week. More push back from Ukraine on the state of the counteroffensive.
 
KATIE POLGLASE, CNN INVESTIGATIVE RESEARCHER:  Absolutely, Kim. They are very insistent that this counteroffensive is pulling ahead with success. And I think, really, to some opt that insistence, a tweet yesterday from Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy really encapsulated it. He said quite simply, Ukrainian forces are moving forward despite everything. And no matter what anyone says, we are advancing and that is the most important thing. We are on the move.
 
Now, the what everyone says is a clear reference to, clearly, comments he's received. Criticism, perhaps of how slow this counteroffensive appears to have been moving. And I think that confidence, really, that insistence that he's having there is perhaps because there has been some progress. There have been some marginal gains on this southern frontier, this front line that we've been talking about.
 
Robotyne, a village in the Zaporizhzhia region, they recently recaptured from the Russians. That is a clear success for the Ukrainians. And they have been moving further, progressing further on south and east, eventually heading towards the Sea of Azov.
 
But it's worth noting in your reference there earlier about the Donetsk region that they are also targeting other areas, but the Russians also are, too. We talk about Donetsk, there was also some shelling by the Russians as well. Some Ukrainians injured overnight. And it's a reminder of the civilian toll of this conflict that while Ukraine is targeting this one particular area of the front line, there is a very long front line with the other areas also still receiving a lot of Russian attacks. And other areas of Ukraine still receiving a lot of Russian drone attacks as well.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, and one of those other areas being attacked, the Odessa region. Tell us more about that.
 
POLGLASE:  Well, Kim, Odessa has been a key region that we've talked about a lot in this conflict. And it's because it supports with a lot of Ukrainian grain that's exported from. Ukraine's grain is really source to the rest of the world. It's one of the key grain exporter and food security has been really impacted by this conflict with Ukraine and Russia.
 
And so, as a result of that, there was the U.N. backed deal, called the Black Sea Grain Deal that was basically set up to ensure that grain could get out of Ukraine's ports. And what we've been since Russia then withdraw from this deal earlier this year is that there have been a lot of accusations of Russia targeting this port infrastructure, targeting areas where this grain is produced, including warehouses.
 
And what we've seen in the early hours, is yet again this port infrastructure in Odessa being targeted. You can see there was fire as a result. Ukraine says that firefighters were quick to distinguish it but it did result in two people wounded as well as a result. So, clearly these kind of drone attacks are going to continue. And as we've talked about with drone attacks this week is another interesting sign that drone attacks are being used by both the Ukrainians and the Russians in this conflict.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Thanks so much, Katie Polglase in London. Appreciate it.
 
Now, despite those ongoing Russian attacks on the Odessa region, the area has reopened its popular beaches even a few hours of relaxation at the shore can help people feel normal again, at least, for a while. CNN's Christiane Amanpour is in Odessa and has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR (voiceover):  In the waning days of a second summer at war under the blazing Black Sea sun, you fin, well, people at the beach. It's actually the first time some of this Odessa coastline has been open for business since the Russian invasion. And while Olga (ph) brought her family for a change of scenery, there is no getting away from it.
 <br>[04:30:00]
 
AMANPOUR: Here, can you forget the war for a little bit?
 
OLGA (PH) (through translator): Sirens at night don't let you forget. No, we don't forget. At least I don't. But I hope my kids and parents get distracted a little bit.
 
AMANPOUR (voiceover): Still, those who can make the most of it. Life goes on, even in war time. And here at the Kaleton Beach Club it's somehow comforting to watch parents slap protective gear onto their infants as if sunburn is the worst that can happen. But of course, it's not.
 
AMANPOUR: So, is it -- is that -- does that mean orthopedics or anything?
 
AMANPOUR (voiceover): Fifteen minutes away in the center of town is a modern private recovery and rehabilitation unit, one of 10 set up around the country by a Ukrainian philanthropist. Here in a full body sling, 41- year-old Vitali (ph) tells us that he volunteered for the front as a deminer, until he was blown up by an anti-personnel mine eight months ago in Kherson.
 
The first wave hit my face because I was bending down, he says, and shrapnel entered my eye. Another bit hit my finger, and three of my toes were blown off.
 
On the rehab bed next to him. 43-year-old Ruslan's (ph) injury is less dramatic, spine and back problems from suddenly having to haul heavy gear around.
 
AMANPOUR: Do you need to get into better shape?
 
AMANPOUR (voiceover): If I was 20, he tells me, it would be different. But I'm 43. And so, it's difficult.
 
But he wants to go back to the front like Vitali (ph) does just as soon as they're patched up. Still motivated, still sure of victory. But then, the talk suddenly turns.
 
AMANPOUR: Vitali?
 
VITALI (PH): Yes.
 
AMANPOUR: What do you think you need?
 
AMANPOUR (voiceover): Immobilized and prone, he's crystal clear. We need more weapons and jets to close the sky from the Russian missiles, he says. When a soldier is fighting there and his family is here unprotected, what do you think goes through our minds?
 
Andri (ph) tells me his psychological trauma is worse than the shrapnel to his hand. Because he, like all of them, want to be back at the front with their comrades to fight for their country and their family.
 
I have a mother, a father, a wife and a cat, he tells me.
 
Back at the seaside, Sergei (ph), a 59-year-old conscript based in Kherson defends his beach time break.
 
AMANPOUR: In the middle of war, you don't feel strange?
 
SERGEI (PH): Yes. It's mostly likely a little bit strange, but we need some direction.
 
AMANPOUR (voiceover): He'll be back under arms after his 15-day furlough. But he insists their counteroffensive is going to according to plan.
 
Christiane Amanpour, CNN, Odessa, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  The Nobel Foundation is bowing to criticism and says, they won't invite Russia, Belarus and Iran to the Nobel Prize banquet in Stockholm, Sweden. Five of the six Nobel Prizes are handed out at that banquet. The Peace Prize is awarded separately at a ceremony in Norway with the ambassadors of every nation invited to attend. The foundation's original decision to include Russia, Belarus, and Iran in the Stockholm banquet drew strong condemnation from Ukraine and Sweden. And they said that it wasn't in keeping with the values that the Nobel Prizes represent.
 
North Korea says, it's launching of several cruise missiles early Saturday morning wasn't just a missile test, it was a, "Tactical nuclear attack simulation" South Korea confirms the North's military fired several missiles into the Yellow Sea about 4:00 a.m. Saturday. That followed another missile launch early Thursday. North Korean media says, Saturday's action came in response to joint U.S.-South Korean military drill and it was a warning to demonstrate what it called an actual nuclear war danger.
 
All right. Back to the U.S., the State of Texas just passed a new law that increases the punishment for some drunk drivers. Governor Greg Abbott signed the law in June but it went into effect on Friday. It says, those convicted of killing another motorist while driving intoxicated will have to pay child support if the person they killed is a parent or guardian. The offender will be expected to make those payments until the child is 18 or until the child graduates from high school. whichever is later, the legislation says. Now, if someone can't pay the restitution because they're incarcerated, they're expected to make the payments no later than the first anniversary of their release date.
 
All right. We have an update to that prison escape we've been following out of Pennsylvania. Have a look at this video captured from a home's doorbell camera early Saturday morning. Authorities believed it's convicted murderer Danelo Cavalcante who escaped from a prison near Philadelphia, Thursday. Officials say, based on where that surveillance video was taken, they now narrowed their search to within two miles of the prison.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
Meanwhile, the district attorney says, police are working through more than 100 tips regarding Cavalcante's whereabouts. The D.A.'s office is also urging residents to stay vigilant during this holiday weekend, saying the fugitive could try to break into vacant homes.
 
It's already been called a tourism emergency. Now, Hawaii is pitching in millions to try and help lure vital visitors back to unaffected parts of Maui and the other islands. That's next, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Hawaii's tourism authority is giving more than $2.5 million to help boost the state's struggling tourism industry. It says, West Maui counts for 15 percent of Hawaii's total tourism revenue. The state has lost some $9 million a day following last month's deadly fires. The tourism board wants to rebuild demand from the U.S. mainland to accessible areas of Maui and the other islands. Governor Josh Green has already declared that Hawaii is facing a tourism emergency as the number of visitors has dropped significantly since the fires.
 
And joining me now is Austin Jay, the Wailea branch manager of Mele Ukulele in Maui. Thanks so much for being here with us. First of all, I mean, it's just, you know, hard to speak to anybody on Maui who hasn't been affected by the fires. I know you personally affected by this. Tell us what happened to you and your family.
 
AUSTIN JAY, WAILEA BRANCH MANAGER, MELE UKULELE:  Yes. So, me and my family, separate from the company I manage here, Mele Ukulele, but my family company is Moonbow Tropics. And we had a store in Lahaina that did burn down, and it is -- just the whole area is just so tragic to see. And we still have -- our other tee stores and none of my family members were harmed, thank God. But we did lose that store just like everyone on Front Street.
 <br>[04:40:00] BRUNHUBER:  Sorry, first of all, that your family lost their store. And so many people have been affected, you know, if it's not like that, you know, losing stores, losing houses. You know, it's people knowing victims. It's people who have helped take people in and to shelter folks, and so on. Obviously, we have to think first of the lives lost and those who have lost everything. But livelihoods, too, have been affected by this. It's been such a huge hit to the island. So, your store makes ukeleles. I imagine, you know, most of your business comes from tourists. How have you been affected -- 
 
JAY:  It does.
 
BRUNHUBER:  -- there by this?
 
JAY:  I mean, I've worked for this wonderful family here at Mele Ukulele. We've worked -- you know, I've done 12 years. And with the exception of Covid, you know, we do a lot of business every single day to visitors and it's very busy. And ever since the fires, understandably but also, you know, unfortunately, it has been very quiet. Like, we're talking -- there are some days where no one will even come in. And I'll just be here all day from 10:00 to 9:00 and not a single person will come in our store. And it's so sad to see and I -- my heart goes out to any other local businesses that are going through anything similar to what we're going through. It's just -- 
 
BRUNHUBER:  Well, that's just -- many have. You know, many people have had to lay-off workers. They can't pay their workers and so on. I mean, it's really hitting so many people in their pocketbooks there.
 
JAY:  Yes. Yes, that's an unfortunate side-effect of what happened. And just all of the sadness and seeing -- you know, I do have locals coming in. I was born here on Maui. And I know a lot of people in Lahaina. And they came in and we play instruments together in the store. And they tell me they lost their family instruments here. And I just hear all of these heart-wrenching stories. And I'm just -- the whole thing, I'm just so sad. I really am.
 
BRUNHUBER:  Yes, absolutely. And you know, I know early on when I was speaking to folks over there, there was tension between, you know, the tourists and the locals. Locals didn't want folks, you know, sunbathing while people were -- they're literally, you know, looking for their relatives. But gradually there has been a more focused appeal to get tourists back. What are you hoping for?
 
JAY:  Yes, it's a fine line. You know, growing up here on Maui, I understand both sides of it. I mean, the thing is, is -- and people do know that we do rely on tourism here in Hawaii to be OK. I mean, friend and family member I have, all my family included, without the tourists, we really struggle hard. And we knew that during COVID, it was the same thing. And it hits us really hard being here in Hawaii.
 
And it's a fine balance because, you know, there is both sides to this but I do believe that in order to go forward, we need the tourists to come back because we won't be able to do this on our own like this.
 
BRUNHUBER:  I know some members of Congress have come to visit and toured the areas and so on. They promised that you will get the resources you need. But there's a political battle over FEMA, you know, emergency funding. I mean, if you could talk to the leaders in Washington, what would you tell them?
 
JAY:  I would -- I mean, we need the help. We need the place to be back the way it was when I was growing up, you know. We want it done, obviously, in a way that respects the culture of the area, but at the same time, you know, safer so this doesn't ever happen again. And, you know, we have to continue and just love everyone, you know, and be there for everyone. But we also need to go back to doing business so we can all continue to be here.
 
BRUNHUBER:  It is -- yes, heartbreaking that you're suffering from back-to-back economic disasters there less than this (ph). A beautiful island. I certainly do hope folks go and visit and help you guys out. I wish everyone there the best in your continued recovery there. Austin Jay, thanks so much for speaking to us. Really appreciate it.
 
JAY:  OK, guys. Thank you so much for having me. The Maui family thanks you. And just whatever you guys can do, just come and visit. There are many parts of the island that are still OK. Obviously, Lahaina, give it space. It's going to need time but come visit the beautiful island and, you know, we'll get through this together, everyone.
 
BRUNHUBER:  All right. Still to come, we're heading to Paris as the French capital prepares to host athletes for the Paralympics next year. We'll tell you what's being done to make the city of light more accessible. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
BRUNHUBER:  Gabon's junta leader say they want to restore democratic institutions in the county and they're starting by reopening the borders. On Wednesday, the country's military launched a coup, unseating the president who'd held office for more than half a century, and France is taking notice. Jim Bittermann has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  France has decided to temporarily suspend military activity in Gabon. The French defense minister, Sebastien Lecornu, who told Le Figaro Newspaper that the 400 or so French troops which have been provided training for the Gabonese forces would suspend their activity until there's clarification of the political situation.
 
The leader of the coup which ousted President Ali Bongo, General Brice Oligui Nguema tried to explained that situation on Gabon's state television.
 
BRICE OLIGUI NGUEMA, GABON COUP LEADER (through translator):  The dissolution of the institutions of the republic is temporary. The aim is to reorganize them to make them more Democratic tools, more in line with international standards in terms of respect for human right, fundamental freedoms, democracy, and the rule of law. But also, in the fight against corruption, which has become common place in our country, money laundering, and above all, the preservation of the environment which is a battle dear to our country.
 
BITTERMANN:  But the general did not have a timeline for the restoration of democracy, which is one of the biggest worries for the French, who not only have substantial business interests in Gabon but also more than 7,000 French citizens.
 
Nonetheless, the ruling junta announced Saturday that it was reopening Gabon's borders.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
Explaining that it wanted to preserve both the rule of respect for the rule of law and Gabon's good relations with its neighbors. And to demonstrate, the junta had a firm will to uphold its international commitments. There's no sign so far that the French will be asked to leave. But the government here has condemned the coup and is watching the situation very carefully.
 
Jim Bittermann, CNN, outside Paris.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  The world's youngest nation has qualified for the Olympics for the first time. Since Sudan's basketball team is going next year's Paris games as the highest ranked African team, that's by a virtue of their win over Angola in the basketball World Cup, and Egypt's lost to New Zealand. South Sudan has been an independent country for just 12 years.
 
Meanwhile, Paris is also getting set to host the Paralympic Games next year. And the French capital is already being transformed to be more accessible for athletes and those attending the competitions. CNN's Jim Bitterman checks out the makeover and the stumbling blocks.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BITTERMANN (voiceover):  With less than a year to go before Paris hosts the next the Paralympics, officials have been showing off how much work has been done. With President Emmanuel Macron having promised 1.5 billion Euros.
 
To assure the accessibility of the competition to athletes, visitors, and tourists.
 
But accessible is a word scoffed at by some disabled like Franck Maille. Though for a tour with Maille, a Paralympic medal winner himself, in Paris' most accessible public transport systems and you see the problems which face the 350,000 disabled visitors expected to attend next year's games.
 
When Maille comes into the city for instance, he uses a renovated trainline equipped with elevators, making it accessible but he points out not accessible without help. And while there are elevators, they're sometimes hard to find or not functioning.
 
As of disabled British visitor, Fera Dell (ph).
 
FERA DELL (PH), BRITISH VISITOR IN PARIS:  All of the lifts were broken, every single one.
 
BITTERMANN (voiceover):  And if the most modern subway line has problems, the 13 other older lines are the famous Paris metro, a simply impossible for disabled users.
 
BITTERMANN:  While a metro system is, no doubt, the most efficient way to get around Paris, it was built more than 100 years ago. And most of the stations are like this one, not accessible to anyone who can't go up and down the stairs. The metro system is gradually making improvements. Officials don't believe that more than 14 percent of it will be wheelchair accessible by 2024 in the Olympic games. Just by comparison, Tokyo's system was 90 percent accessible for the last Olympic games.
 
BITTERMANN (voiceover):  Even the mayor of Paris admits there are problems.
 
ANNE HIDALGO, PARIS MAYOR (through translator):  The metro, which is very ancient, cannot be made totally accessible.
 
BITTERMANN (voiceover):  But the mayor quickly pivots to the brand-new tramways, built at ground level which shouldn't be a problem for those in wheelchairs. And she points out the buses which are being renovated and equipped with ramps. But the disabled who actually use the buses say, it's not that simple.
 
FRANCK MAILLE, APF FRANCE HANDICAP (through translator):  Because, for example, sometimes the extendible ramp doesn't work or the drivers don't know how to use them.
 
BITTERMANN (voiceover):  While the mobility issue remains a priority, there are others. Housing for instance. The tens of thousands of hotel rooms and short-term apartment rental and the city's historic buildings, only a tiny fraction are fully usable by people in wheelchairs. And there is the further question of access to the bars, the bathroom in small businesses, they're a part of the Paris scene. Despite the challenges, Maille is still a big supporter of next year's game.
 
MAILLE (through translator):  What I'd say to people is come. Come to see Paris, that's clear. Don't be surprised that Paris is not more accessible, that it's not the best of the best because there's still so much work to be done.
 
BITTERMANN (voiceover):  Maille and other disability rights activists were hoping the games could transform, not just infrastructure, but also attitudes toward the disable. Yet with less than a year to go before the games, they say, that looks increasingly doubtful.
 
Jim Bittermann, CNN, Paris.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Just a couple of hours from now, the SpaceX Crew-6 is expected to undock from the International Space Station to begin its journey home to Earth. It comes as several countries are writing new chapters in space exploration history. CNN's Michael Holmes has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  One, zero.
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL NEWS ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  India, rising star of the global space race. Its latest endeavor, a mission to study the sun successfully launched on Saturday. That follows a history-making moon landing by the country just a week and a half ago. And in a first for any nation, an Indian rover is now exploring unchartered territory on the lunar south pole.
 
India's space program is on a roll and people in India are over the moon about the country's other worldly accomplishments. Thousands of people gathered at a viewing gallery to watch the liftoff of Saturday's solar probe, a new generation of space buffs to cheer on their country's ambitious space program.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
KALYANI KARANAM, ATTENDED SOLAR PROBE LAUNCH:  It makes me feel very proud. I think this is going to be one more step towards how asteroids, kind of, expanding and evolving. So, it's really good to be here. Really excited to see the crowd coming here. We really wanted to be part of the pride moment that everyone is part of here.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  And while India's missions are just beginning, NASA's OSIRIS-REx mission, to bring back samples from a near Earth asteroid is in the final leg of its seven-year journey. NASA concluded tests at a drop zone in the U.S., clearing the way for the return of the capsule with its rocky cargo later this month. Scientists think the Asteroid Bennu dates back to the dawn of the solar system and could shed light on the building blocks of life.
 
And it's almost a wrap for NASA's SpaceX Crew-6 mission, soon to be heading home after six months at the International Space Station.
 
It was an extraordinary ride for one crew member in particular. Sultan Al Neyadi from the United Arab Emirates. His stint on the ISS will be the longest ever Arab space mission and he is the first Arab astronaut to perform a spacewalk.
 
SULTAN AL NEYADI, EMIRATI ASTRONAUT:  It was amazing. It was seven hours continuous. I didn't feel it because I was really focusing into the mission. And it was really, really great feeling just to see that you are floating in a space suit. It's just like a small spacecraft. It provides oxygen and CO2 scrubbing and cooling, and what is preventing you from dying is just, like, a small layer of glass.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  SpaceX Crew-6 is set to undock from the ISS and return to Earth with a splash down scheduled for early Monday eastern time.
 
Michael Holmes, CNN.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER:  Well, that wraps this hour of "CNN Newsroom." I'm Kim Brunhuber. I'll be back with more news in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:00:00]