Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Hundreds Of Israelis March Through Jerusalem In An Annual Flag Parade; South Carolina House Passes A Six-Week Abortion Ban; Confusion And Concern In Colombia After The President Is Told To Retract A Statement That Four Children Were Rescued From Jungle; Confusion In Colombia Whether Children Found Alive; Montana Governor Bans TikTok; Myanmar Junta Travel Restrictions Holding Up Aid; Italy Floods Displace 20,000; Harry And Meghan Paparazzi Chase; Disney Scraps Plans For New Florida Campus. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired May 18, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Hello, and welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Christina Macfarlane in for Isa Soares. Tonight, 
 
 hundreds of Israelis march through Jerusalem in an annual flag parade. Details on the mostly peaceful but tense day ahead. And the U.S. state of 
 
 South Carolina is cracking down on a woman's right to choose. 
 
We'll hear from one Republican lawmaker standing firm against her party's six-week abortion ban. Plus, confusion and concern in Colombia after the 
 
 president has to retract a statement that four children were rescued from the jungle. The very latest on the search. 
 
But first, a tense day in Jerusalem as thousands of Israeli nationalists march through the streets in a provocative annual flag parade. Far-right 
 
 National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir joined the crowds just a few hours ago, you can see him there. He's been convicted of supporting anti-
 
 Palestinian terrorism, but was greeted here like a rock star with some marchers chanting, the prime minister is here. 
 
Well, the march was mostly peaceful, but some demonstrators threw rocks at journalists, including two of our own. They also taunted journalists in 
 
 hijabs, some shouting, may your village burn. Two people have been arrested. The annual march celebrates Israel's capture of East Jerusalem 
 
 during the 1967 war. Israel later annexed the territory in a move not recognized under international law.
 
Well, let's bring in our CNN Hadas Gold who is live in Jerusalem, has been today. Hadas, clearly, a day of tension in Jerusalem. Tell us what you have 
 
 been seeing, witnessing in the last few hours, and the type of people who have been turning out for this rally.  
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Christina, this day is called Jerusalem Day, as you noted. It's the day when Israelis celebrate Israel 
 
 capturing control of east Jerusalem in the 1967 war, capturing control from Jordan. And for Israelis, it's a celebration. They see this unifying their 
 
 capital, unifying Jerusalem until 1967, Jews couldn't go to the holiest sites in the old city of Jerusalem which lies in east Jerusalem.
 
But for Palestinians who want east Jerusalem as the capital of their future state, they see this day as incredibly provocative, especially because in 
 
 the last few years, it's essentially become a right-wing nationalist rally. Most of the people who attend this day tend to be definitely from the 
 
 right-wing, many from the religious Zionist, many from settlers from the occupied West Bank. 
 
And there typically does tend to be some sort of scuffles and violence, and that's what we saw today. Not only a very heavy hand from the police that 
 
 had deployed thousands of police officers to try to keep the calm in some way, but also today towards reporters. We were standing in the cordoned off 
 
 area that the police had set up for reporters overlooking the Damascus gate area, which is one of the main entrances to the Muslim quarter of the old 
 
 city. 
 
This is one of the paths that the marchers went on, and we started to not only get taunts from the marchers, especially towards some of our 
 
 Palestinian journalist colleagues, things like may your village burn, we also heard marchers chanting things about getting revenge on Palestine or 
 
 erasing their names, but also at one point they started throwing things at us, rocks, bottles, cans. 
 
I saw at least two journalists get injured, many people had to take cover, put on helmets and the like. The Israeli police did say they ended up 
 
 arresting at least two people, and they're investigating more. But it's going to show you that the antagonism wasn't just towards the Palestinians 
 
 in the area, but it was also towards us journalists. 
 
But other than those events, it was largely peaceful, and I should say most of the marchers there were there just to march and dance and dance around 
 
 with their flags. And it didn't get to the same level, of course, that we saw in 2021. We were there covering the same march in 2021, and that was 
 
 when Hamas; the militant group that run Gaza had threatened that if the march was not canceled, then they would respond. 
 
And they did respond with rockets towards Jerusalem. Sirens went off as the marchers were on the route, and that actually canceled the march as a 
 
 result of that. And of course, that set off the 11-day war between Israeli military and the militants in Gaza. Now, while the militant groups in Gaza 
 
 had threatened what they call some sort of response if unnamed red lines were crossed. 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
So far, we haven't seen any sort of major response either from Gaza or elsewhere as a result. But you know, it's -- we could see something later 
 
 on. But there was little expectation that there would be a similar response as we saw in 2021. Christina?  
 
MACFARLANE: And how much emphasis is being put on the fact that the timing of this march, this time around, Hadas, I mean, this comes five days after 
 
 a ceasefire was reached between Israel and Islamic Jihad. What is the situation there now? You're saying that the threat of major escalation is 
 
 unlikely. I mean, is that concern now disappearing as night falls there as the march concludes?  
 
GOLD: Yes, well, in terms of timing, this is always held on the same day, which is on the -- according to the Hebrew calendar, when this -- when 
 
 Israel captured east Jerusalem in 1967. But it is happening as you noticed, a few days after a ceasefire was reached between Islamic Jihad militants 
 
 and the Israeli military after that several-day long conflict there. 
 
And in a way, I actually think that probably helped cool the situation, having a ceasefire a few days before it helped cool the situation on the 
 
 ground. Because of course, if the -- if the conflict was ongoing with the militants in Gaza and the Israeli military while this march was going on, I 
 
 think we could have definitely expected some sort of major response from the militants there towards Jerusalem, towards this march. 
 
But that was a major focus and a major push by those who were trying to get that ceasefire by the Egyptians, by others, knowing that this date was 
 
 coming very quickly. They wanted that ceasefire done before today's march, Christina.  
 
MACFARLANE: All right, Hadas Gold, appreciate your reporting there live from Jerusalem tonight. Thank you. Well, Palestinians in Gaza are rallying 
 
 against the holding of this parade in Jerusalem at the border with Israel. These were the scenes earlier. Palestinians see the march as a provocation, 
 
 as Hadas was saying, and a threat. 
 
And in previous years, it has led to clashes. We will continue to monitor this story and bring you any updates. Now, Ukrainian forces are fighting 
 
 with momentum in Bakhmut, claiming more progress in and around the city each day. Still, they're coming under heavy fire from Russian fighters. As 
 
 the battle intensifies, so are Russian airstrikes on Ukraine's capital. 
 
Officials in Kyiv say Moscow launched an assault notable for its power, intensity and variety. But air defenses are holding strong, intercepting 29 
 
 of 30 missiles fired towards the city. And it comes just two days after Russia's last attack damaged a U.S.-made Patriot air defense system. Sam 
 
 Kiley is joining us now from the southeastern area of Ukraine. 
 
And Sam, so more strikes overnight, the strongest yet from Moscow, and presumably, all of this a preemptive effort from Russia as we continue to 
 
 wait for the counteroffensive to begin in earnest.  
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Christina, yes, absolutely. This is an attempt to soak up the air defenses. These 
 
 airstrikes, I have to say, have become -- or air attacks, have become completely routine, they've been conducted on an almost nightly basis, on a 
 
 variety of scales, we've had much more heavy in terms of numbers of missiles, particularly, the Shahed drones fired in the past now. 
 
The focus is to focus the attacks particularly on Kyiv, but last night, they were much more widely disposed across the whole country. There was a 
 
 death in Odessa, reportedly as a result of falling debris after a Russian cruise missile was downed by Ukrainian defenses. But they are clearly 
 
 trying to test the ability of the Ukrainians to defend themselves, but also to soak up that ability. 
 
So that if there is a ground offensive put in by the Ukrainians, then they -- this is the Russian idea, they will hope that a lot of the air defenses 
 
 already been spent, and they could get some aircraft in the air to attack ground troops. But that's all looking forward, what's going on in the 
 
 present now is intensive fighting in Bakhmut with a weird situation in which there are advances being reported by the Wagner mercenary group in 
 
 the center of the town. 
 
Well, it's simultaneously being flanked to the north and south by Ukrainian advances. Ukrainians are throwing more into that battle than we've seen 
 
 recently. They've thrown more into it over the last week or so, and enjoyed some degree of success on the outskirts of the town, even while the 
 
 mercenary organization has been continuing to fight house-to-house. 
 
They'll be looking there for vulnerabilities, possibly to open up as part of the future Summer offensive. But I think in all probability, that will 
 
 be a surprise attack, and we simply have no idea where that would be, Christina.  
 
MACFARLANE: And also today, Sam, we heard reports of an attack, I believe, on a freight train carrying grain on -- in Crimea or in Crimean territory. 
 
 I mean, we've seen attacks beyond Russia's frontlines before -- even though, Ukraine are not claiming this. And we've heard denials from Ukraine 
 
 before. 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
What more do we know about the circumstances of what actually happened there?  
 
KILEY: Well, we don't know the details. What we do know is that some carriages were derailed. That this important connection between Sebastopol 
 
 and Simferopol in the Crimean Peninsula captured by Russia in 2014 and later illegally annexed into the rest of the country. This -- there was a 
 
 derailment. 
 
Now, the Russian authorities or the Russian-backed authorities in Crimea are saying that it's -- it was the actions of a third-party effectively. 
 
 The Ukrainians, as is typical, and you kind of hinted that with your chuckle there, I've got slightly tongue-in-cheek response to these source 
 
 of activities. We've seen it in the past when there was attacks on airfields, for example, or an airfield in Crimea, they said that would be 
 
 an accident caused by somebody smoking a cigarette on an airfield. 
 
This they say is a result, tongue-in-cheek of a lack of repairs and maintenance. But ultimately, these should be seen as part of two things, 
 
 really. The ongoing effort to undermine the ability of the Russians to supply their troops in the present. But also as part of the shaping 
 
 operations for the major ground offensive, which is anticipated over the next months or weeks.  
 
MACFARLANE: Sam Kiley there live from southeastern Ukraine, we appreciate your reporting, Sam. Thank you. After 3:00 in the morning in Hiroshima, 
 
 Japan where world leaders are hours away from the start of the G7 Summit. They include U.S. President Joe Biden, who is in Japan despite a looming 
 
 debt-ceiling crisis back home. 
 
He is due back in the U.S. on Sunday to resume those debt talks. But for now, he is meeting with leaders like Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida. 
 
 The prime mister represents Hiroshima in Japan's parliament, and the U.S. nuclear attack on his city in World War II is relevant whenever dignitaries 
 
 come to town. 
 
But it's taken on new significance this year amid Russia's war in Ukraine, threats from North Korea, and an increasingly aggressive China. For the 
 
 latest, CNN's Marc Stewart is live from Hiroshima tonight. And Marc, what - - if anything, can we expect to see come out of this G7 talks? And is there a sense that the President Biden's domestic issues may be slightly 
 
 overshadowing his foreign agenda on this trip?  
 
MARC STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Hi, Christina, it's good to you. I should point out that President Biden's domestic troubles with the debt ceiling in the 
 
 U.S. certainly are being felt and talked about here in Hiroshima. When we look at this potential debt ceiling default in the U.S., it could have 
 
 worldwide implications. G7 nations could distinctly be impacted. 
 
If there is economic default in the U.S., it could certainly cause global markets to act in erratic ways, it could impact the value of the U.S. 
 
 dollar, that could impact trade and exports, and not only for the U.S., but for so many of these G7 nations, and the broader fear is that it would 
 
 perhaps trigger a global recession. 
 
That is why the president is expected to be confronted by world leaders tomorrow or I should say, this morning here in Japan, about the status of 
 
 these debt ceiling talks. It's something that these leaders have very good reason to be concerned about. It will be interesting to see what kind of 
 
 questions he faces, but they certainly want to know about the risk. 
 
With that issue aside, the hope is that these G7 leaders will be able to confront and discuss other big issues. You mentioned, certainly, the war in 
 
 Ukraine. We are expecting President Zelenskyy to appear in front of G7 leaders in some kind of video set-up to discuss about the future. 
 
 Obviously, diplomatic discussions will be talked about, defense strategy will not be a surprise. 
 
But also economic ways that this can be -- can be solved. Europe still exports items to Russia, and Japan, where I am now, still imports energy 
 
 from Russia. That's going to be talked about. And of course, we cannot forget the broader discussion on China. And it's really interesting, 
 
 Christina, because so many of these G7 nations each have unique relationships with China. 
 
And a lot of these nations depend on China, especially for a supply chain and for economic manufacturing. So there is going to have to be a 
 
 reckoning, if you will, with these G7 leaders as to what their stance will be towards China. That's a communique, I think a lot of people in this 
 
 region are very anxious to see in the hours and days ahead. Christina.  
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, it's a very good point. The specter of China looming large over this. Marc Stewart, we appreciate you being up 3:00 a.m. in the 
 
 morning there for us, more to come, of course, tomorrow. Thanks, Marc. All right, still to come tonight, South Carolina house lawmakers approving a 
 
 controversial bill that would ban most abortions as early as six weeks into pregnancy.
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
We'll explain what comes next. And later this hour, new details about Prince Harry and Meghan's chase with paparazzi. We'll hear from an 
 
 eyewitness. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 
MACFARLANE: Welcome back. South Carolina is now one step closer to a near- total ban on abortions. State lawmakers there have now voted in favor of a six-week abortion ban that would prevent women from terminating pregnancies 
 
 in most cases, once early cardiac activity is detected. Many women don't even know that they're pregnant at that point. 
 
And there are some exceptions including when the mother's health and life are at risk, as well as cases of rape, incest or under-aged pregnancy. The 
 
 bill now heads back to the state's Senate. Amara Walker breaks it all down for us.  
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CORRESPONDENT: So it took the South Carolina house chamber more than 20 hours of debate over two days to finally pass a 
 
 six-week abortion ban. Now, this bill heads to the Republican-controlled Senate, an it's going to be very interesting to see what happens there with 
 
 this bill because there have been several amendments made to this bill by the house that further restrict abortion. 
 
Now, just three weeks ago, the South Carolina State Senate actually blocked a near-total abortion ban. That would have basically banned abortion from 
 
 conception with a few exceptions. And that happened because five women and a senator, only five women in the South Carolina State Senate, they banded 
 
 together. 
 
So we're talking about three Republicans, one Democrat, one independent, they were able to come together with a filibuster to block that bill. Now, 
 
 prior to that, in February, the same Senate passed a less restrictive abortion bill, in effect, it was a six-week abortion ban. And now, the 
 
 state house has passed a similar bill. 
 
I want you to listen to Republican state Senator Sandy Senn. She spoke with CNN this morning. She was one of the five women who blocked that bill in 
 
 April, and she told us how she and her sister senators will vote.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SANDY SENN, SOUTH CAROLINA STATE SENATOR: All of the five women will be fighting against this bill. The big nail-biter is going to be whether the 
 
 three men who stood with us last time, whether they will stick with us.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WALKER: You know, it's been a very contentious issue within the Republican Party in South Carolina and nationally. 
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
The debate over how restrictive an abortion ban should be. Now, if this bill passes the Senate, then the Republican Governor Henry McMaster has 
 
 indicated that he will sign this bill into law. Until then, abortion remains legal in the state of South Carolina up until 22 weeks of 
 
 pregnancy. But the big picture here is that the huge chunk of the southeastern United States is moving towards banning or severely 
 
 restricting abortion after Roe v. Wade was overturned last Summer. Christina?  
 
MACFARLANE: Well, our thanks to Amara. And as she was reporting there, Republican state Senator Sandy Senn is counting on some of her male 
 
 colleagues to stop this bill from becoming law. She's even concerned about her future as a politician over this issue. Listen to this.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SENN: There are many things that we need to do in our state. Instead, the overwhelmingly white male Republican majority is going to focus again and 
 
 again on abortion. The bills main sponsor over in the house said that he really wants to go back, he doesn't like the six-week ban. He wants a zero 
 
 ban, and the only way to do that would be to eliminate those who voted against this in 2024.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
MACFARLANE: Well, more women in the U.S. are now opting for sterilization to avoid unwanted pregnancies. CNN's Elizabeth Cohen talks to a doctor who 
 
 says she is seeing three times more requests than before Roe v. Wade was overturned. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm Kara(ph), I had my tubal sterilization last week. This is one.  
 
ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Kara Neils(ph) 25 years old, opted six months ago to be sterilized. Danny 
 
 Marietti(ph), also 25, had a picnic to celebrate her sterilization last July, complete with commemorative cookies. Mariah Marsh also had her tubes 
 
 removed as a 28th birthday present to herself in January. 
 
All three have known for a long time that they don't want children, and after Roe v. Wade was overturned last year, they got sterilized.  
 
MARIAH MARSH, CHOSE TO BE STERILIZED: And I knew that the only way I could really protect myself is to go ahead and get the surgery.  
 
COHEN: Mariah, an admissions officer at Indiana University has a neuromuscular disease that can make pregnancy risky. She said the ongoing 
 
 legal battle over mifepristone makes her even more grateful she got sterilized. The legal challenge to this drug, one of two used together in 
 
 medication abortion, could bar its use for abortion nationwide in the future.  
 
MARSH: It doesn't make me happy that I made the decisions that I made, because it validates my thought process, which was, they're just going to 
 
 come for any access to care that a woman can make on her own.  
 
COHEN: Dr. Leah Tatum, an obstetrician-gynecologist in Austin, Texas, said she hears this frequently from patients.  
 
LEAH TATUM, OBSTETRICIAN-GYNECOLOGIST: Their concerns are if medical abortions are no longer accessible, what if their reproductive rights are 
 
 restricted even further?  
 
COHEN: She says as abortion rights are getting shipped away --  
 
TATUM: I have definitely seen an increase in the requests for sterilization. I see about three times the consults for sterilizations as I 
 
 used to.  
 
COHEN: Women like Mariah, Danny(ph) and Kara(ph) --  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Find somebody in your area, find somebody who is covered by insurance --  
 
COHEN: Are securing their choice as some options for choosing a life without children are being taken away. Elizabeth Cohen, CNN, reporting. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
MACFARLANE: Now, in a highly anticipated case within the global art world, the Supreme Court have ruled that the late artist Andy Warhol violated 
 
 copyright laws in his portraits of the singer Prince. The court ruled 7 to 2 that Warhol infringed on the copyright of celebrity photographer Lynn 
 
 Goldsmith, rejecting the argument that the pop-up pioneer had sufficiently transformed her original photo of the rock star. 
 
It's a significant step in the debate between artist freedom and intellectual property. Jessica Schneider is joining me now from Washington 
 
 D.C. to discuss this. Jessica, this is fascinating. I was reading about the case, and the judges concluded here that, to not rule against Andy Warhol 
 
 would, in their words, stifle creativity of every sort. 
 
I mean, this is a debate that we've been seeing play out in A.I. and in music of late. So what could be the implications of this ruling?  
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, the art world is definitely concerned about this ruling. And like you said, it was a 7 to 2 decision, 
 
 but one of the dissenting judges, Justice Elena Kagan, she wrote that exactly. She said it would stifle creativity of every sort because there is 
 
 concern about what this might mean. 
 
The bottom line is though, that the majority of this court, they ruled that when Andy Warhol made that silkscreen painting, and it was eventually 
 
 published, it was of a photograph that was previously taken by another photographer. 
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
And the court here said that it really wasn't sufficiently transformative to skirt those copyright concerns and be considered fair use. So they said 
 
 that it violated the copyright. Because this case, it revolved around a series of silkscreen paintings that Andy Warhol had done in the 1980s. And 
 
 he based all of those paintings off of a photograph by Lynn Goldsmith. 
 
Now, she did allow an initial silkscreen print to be published in "Vanity Fair" in the 1980s, but she was paid a fee for it, she was consulted. The 
 
 problem is though, that when Prince died in 2016, "Conde Nast" went to Andy Warhol's estate, they asked for another one of his silkscreen pictures that 
 
 he had done, also based off of that same photograph, but the problem was Goldsmith was never asked, she was never given credit and she was never 
 
 paid. 
 
So she did claim copyright infringement. And today, the court coming down on her side. Now, this definitely has been a very closely-watched case, the 
 
 global art world really looking into this and wondering, you know, how will this ruling -- could it stifle an artist's freedom to borrow from other 
 
 works? 
 
On the flip side though, Christina, some artists are saying, well, maybe this is a good thing because it will bolster their contention that they 
 
 should always be compensated when their work is used even as an inspiration. So the court's ruling just coming down this morning. There's a 
 
 lot of debate as to what this might mean. 
 
There's a lot of concern about what this might mean for the art world, how freely can you borrow another artist's work to create your own? This is 
 
 probably an issue that hasn't seen its last day in court. There will probably be other cases that come up. But for now, Andy Warhol's estate, 
 
 they've said that it was copyright infringement for using this photograph and not properly crediting or paying this photographer. Christina?  
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, it's a fascinating case, understandable concern, I suppose, from the art world -- 
 
SCHNEIDER: Yes -- 
 
MACFARLANE: But a major win over copyright laws. Jessica Schneider, thanks very much. All right, still to come tonight, questions remain over the fate 
 
 of four missing children in Colombia after their plane crashed deep in the jungle. And a big move from Montana's governor as the state moves to ban 
 
 TikTok. We'll have more on what this means for the app next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
MACFARLANE: Confusion in Colombia over a group of missing children. The country's president had tweeted that four children have been found alive 
 
 after surviving a plane crash and spending 17 days in the jungle. However, he has since deleted the tweet, saying the information could not be 
 
 confirmed. 
 
Officials have yet to set sights on the children and rescuers are continuing with their search. Stefano Pozzebon tracking all of this from 
 
 Colombia's capital, Bogota. 
 
This is an extraordinary story and one the world is now following. There is a lot of unknowns here and confusion about Colombia's president deluding 
 
 this tweet. 
 
What do we know?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It has been a frantic 12 hours here in Colombia, frankly, Christina, since yesterday at about 4 pm local time. The 
 
 president presented this message, a presidential tweet is almost like a message to the nation, a message to public opinion, saying the children 
 
 have been located and rescued alive. 
 
This morning, from the early hours of the morning, we understood that the situation was maybe not exactly like that. We understand the whereabouts of 
 
 the children have been located but that does not mean that the kids have been safely rescued and not in the safe hands of Colombian authorities. 
 
This region, the Colombian Amazon, is one of the most remote and sparsely populated regions in South America, let alone Colombia. It is a region 
 
 where you move around either by plane, like the small single engine Cessna, like the one that fatally crashed on May the 1st, which originated this 
 
 whole story. 
 
It crashed with seven people on board. Three are understood to have died in the collision. Or you move around with canoes. Right now, it is in the 
 
 middle of the rainy season. So communication and transportation is not easy in that part of the country. 
 
More than 100 people are working around the clock to try to bring these four kids home, hopefully to locate them and stay with them and reach them 
 
 as soon as possible. It is interesting to see the techniques. I am thinking we can show them on our screen. 
 
One technique they used to locate these kids is to play out from the helicopters messages, audio messages from their grandmother, in their local 
 
 indigenous language, telling them to quiet them down, to show some support, because we can only imagine the mental state they find themselves in. 
 
At this point, unfortunately, Christina, we are still not able to give everyone the news that we are all hoping for here in Colombia, that these 
 
 four children have been safely rescued. One of them is only 11 months old, a baby. It is a remarkable story. Hopefully it becomes a miracle and not a 
 
 tragedy. Christina.
 
MACFARLANE: We hope, and we pray that that is the case. The idea that a baby is out there in the jungle is difficult to wrap your head around. 
 
 Stefano Pozzebon, thank you. 
 
Montana is set to become the first U.S. state to ban TikTok, not just for government employees but for everyone. Montana governor Greg Gianforte says 
 
 the move protects the state from China. The ban takes effect in January. It sets potential fines of $10,000 a day for app stores that host TikTok. 
 
Several organizations are planning legal challenges, saying the law violates free speech. CNN technology reporter Brian Fung joins us now from 
 
 Washington, D.C. 
 
On that point, TikTok CEO says this infringes upon the rights of people in Montana. They say that there is no evidence for this move. So the legal 
 
 cases are mounting already. 
 
How likely is it that this bill is even going to pass?
 
BRIAN FUNG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, the governor signed the bill into law earlier this week. That is what is triggering all of this action now. 
 
 Opposition to the law, as you pointed out, there are a number of constitutional challenges that may be raised in response to this law. 
 
One being that it restricts the rights of Montanans to access legal speech as well as the rights of Montanans to express themselves online, both of 
 
 which being First Amendment violations. 
 
Secondly, some suggested that this law may be unconstitutional as a, quote, "bill of attainder," basically penalizing a person without due process. 
 <br>[14:35:00]
 
FUNG: We will see how far these allegations go. But this is more than just about TikTok. The law also targets, as you said, app store operators, such 
 
 as Apple and Google and prevents them from making TikTok available for downloads in the state. 
 
The penalties here are pretty steep, $10,000 per violation, per day, which could add up to a hefty amount of money here. It is important to point out 
 
 that individual users of TikTok will not be subject to these penalties. It is just focused on the companies -- TikTok, Apple, Google. 
 
Even so, these legal challenges could determine whether or not bans like this in Montana are going to be replicated elsewhere in the United States; 
 
 potentially, around the world. Christina.
 
MACFARLANE: I think a lot of individual users are sighing a breath of relief that they themselves will not be accountable for this on any level. 
 
 I don't know how you would even look to implement a ban like that. 
 
To your point, Brian, how much of this is going to give us a taste of what could come on a federal level?
 
We know the U.S. government have already moved to ban the app on government devices. 
 
FUNG: Exactly. Whatever happens with these legal challenges to the state ban, if they are held to be unconstitutional, that could pose serious 
 
 problems at the federal level level. 
 
As you pointed out, there are huge challenges to implementation. Users can simply use a virtual private networking service that allows them to mask 
 
 their location as a way to get around some of these bans and make it look like they're accessing TikTok somewhere else from outside of Montana or 
 
 outside of the United States. 
 
That could also be a huge challenge for policymakers. 
 
MACFARLANE: Plenty of potential loopholes. Brian Fung, thank you very much. 
 
Still to come, rescue groups are warning of a large-scale loss of life as humanitarian aid could be held up in cyclone battered Myanmar. 
 
Plus, heavy flooding claims more lives and forces more people to leave their homes in northern Italy. To make matters worse, more rain is in the 
 
 forecast. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
MACFARLANE: In cyclone battered Myanmar, the U.N. says the military junta is holding up humanitarian access to some communities devastated by the 
 
 storm. 
 <br>[14:40:00]
 
MACFARLANE: Hundreds of people are feared dead. Thousands more are in dire need of shelter, clean water, food and health care. CNN's Paula Hancocks 
 
 shows us the devastation and spoke to people who lost loved ones and homes in Sunday's storm. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It was one of the strongest cyclones to ever hit Myanmar. And it hit the most vulnerable and desperate. Temporary 
 
 shelters in this Rohingya refugee camp were destroyed. More than 400 people have died and entire villages have been wiped out, according to 
 
 eyewitnesses. 
 
Those who survived tried to salvage anything left of their homes and laid to rest to those who were lost. 
 
Aung Zaw Hein already lost his home once, fleeing religious persecution by Myanmar's military 10 years ago, leaving everything behind. He is now 
 
 homeless again. 
 
AUNG ZAW HEIN, ROHINGYA REFUGEE (from captions): Let me just show you the situation over here. My home is completely destroyed. Some of the people 
 
 have already cleared my area. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): He has been helping search and rescue missions, looking for the bodies of his neighbors and helping to bury the dead. 
 
AUNG (from captions): My heart is very, very broken. I don't know how to mention in words but when I see the dead bodies, I can't control my tears. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Myanmar's military has been accused of killing thousands of Muslim Rohingya in a bloody and brutal crackdown. It has been 
 
 described by the United Nations as a genocide. 
 
About 1 million Rohingya fled to neighboring Bangladesh starting in 2017. But hundreds of thousands still live here in Myanmar, many displaced and in 
 
 dire need of humanitarian aid. 
 
Abdul Hussein (ph) says he saw his wife and three daughters swept away by the water as they tried to flee to safety. 
 
ABDUL HUSSEIN (PH), MOCHA SURVIVOR (through translator): There are a lot of families like us. We need shelter. We have no food and we don't know what 
 
 to do tonight or what we will eat for lunch and what we will do tomorrow. We have just lost everything. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Hussein (ph) shows us where he slept with his surviving children and grandchildren last night. 
 
HANCOCKS: Do you think there will be any help coming from the military?
 
HUSSEIN (PH) (through translator): I don't believe they will come to help us. I will just have to struggle to feed the six members of my family that 
 
 are left. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Myanmar's junta leader, Min Aung Hlaing, visited this same hardhit area, Sittwe, on Monday. 
 
He promised aid from the military but the U.N. and many international aid organizations say they have been heavily restricted from entering the 
 
 country and the junta ruled since they seized power two years ago, leaving the residents of Rakhine, many living in camps, to fend for themselves. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The storms completely destroyed our life and bring us on the road again. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Already vulnerable communities hoping for help that may never come -- Paula Hancocks, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: More than 200,000 people in central Somalia are waiting for floodwaters to go down before returning to their homes. Some residents say 
 
 a nearby city was completely underwater. 
 
Seasonal rainfall upstream caused the shibel river to overflow its banks. The flooding comes as Somalia faces its most severe drought in decades. 
 
Meanwhile, in northern Italy, at least 11 people are dead and up to 20,000 people are displaced by massive floods and landslides, triggered by 
 
 torrential rainfall this week. Barbie Nadeau shows us some of the damage and the ongoing search and rescue efforts. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Thousands of evacuations continue in northern Italy after deadly floods and landslides wiped out key 
 
 infrastructure. Several people died and rescuers continue to search for the missing. 
 
A pregnant woman was lifted to safely by the Coast Guard, called in to help with water evacuations. An elderly couple evacuated from their home 
 
 overnight. Bridges washed away, hampering rescue operations. Roads have become impassable. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We closed the road to conturit soli (ph) after the flooding of the river Corderna (ph). A torrent flooded under 
 
 the Amilia in the castle welfare (ph) area. The motor bridge collapsed near Otsana Nanamilia. The situation is very complicated. The only road 
 
 available to reach Fianza and Ravenna is the Via Amilia. The highways closed due to flooding. 
 
NADEAU (voice-over): The floods have even sparked fires. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I was expecting the river to rise after the red alert warning came through. But instead of breaking through 
 
 in two or three places, it burst its banks and the water came with no warning. 
 
What can we do?
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We are waiting for the help of civil protection teams. They are not here at the moment. So we are helping 
 
 to try to save our houses. 
 
What can we do other than that?
 
We will wait until someone helps. 
 
NADEAU (voice-over): Residents who cannot stay with friends and families are being housed in local cinemas and museums. Weather conditions are 
 
 expected to improve slightly before another system moves in -- Barbie Latza Nadeau, CNN. Rome. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Still to come tonight, we will have the latest details from the royal couple's frightening encounter with the paparazzi. We will hear from 
 
 an eyewitness next. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
MACFARLANE: New details now about the car chase involving the Duke and Duchess of Sussex. The couple were pursued by paparazzi after leaving an 
 
 awards ceremony on Tuesday night. 
 
Now the driver of one of the vehicles they rode in is speaking out. The cab driver said Prince Harry and Meghan appeared scared and nervous. Max Foster 
 
 has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SUNNY SINGH, TAXI DRIVER: I didn't feel like I was in danger but you know Harry and Meghan, they look very nervous. 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT: More than 25 years after the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, her son, Prince Harry, and his wife, Meghan, 
 
 claimed that they were chased by paparazzi in what the couple's team is calling a near catastrophic car chase. 
 
Prince Harry, Meghan and her mother, Doria Ragland, attended the Women of Vision Awards at the Ziegfeld Ballroom in New York City. Meghan was honored 
 
 for her global advocacy to empower women and girls. 
 
But it wasn't until they left the event that things allegedly escalated. A local law enforcement source tells CNN that, quote, "swarm" of paparazzi 
 
 followed them in cars, motorcycles and scooters. 
 
The convoy eventually went to the 19th precinct, where the couple waited until they could safely leave. 
 
Chris Sanchez, a member of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's security detail, says they switched cars more than once during the chase. They were 
 
 first seen in a black car and then a Yellow cab. The driver of that cab says he noticed the paparazzi before, as the couple's security guards 
 
 started to tell him the address to drive to. 
 
SINGH: And as soon as he was about to say where they were going, all of a sudden the paparazzi just stormed the taxi. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over): He says he saw six paparazzi total. 
 
SINGH: When the paparazzi started taking pictures and one started from the back, somebody said, oh, my God, you know.
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
SINGH: And then the look on the faces, you could tell that they were nervous and scared. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over): That's when the Sussexes' bodyguard told him to return to the police precinct. The NYPD, who provided assistance to the Sussexes' 
 
 security team, says the paparazzi made the transported Harry and Meghan challenging but were are no reports of collisions, injuries or arrests. 
 
The couple's security team say the Duke and Duchess and their convoy were pursued by the paparazzi for more than two hours, allegedly resulting in 
 
 multiple near collisions with other drivers, pedestrians and two NYPD officers, adding the Sussexes, who are staying at a private residence on 
 
 the Upper East Side of Manhattan, did not want to compromise the security of their friend's home. 
 
New York City mayor Eric Adams has questioned the validity of that two-hour timeframe but says nothing like this should ever happen in a city as dense 
 
 as the Big Apple, calling the incident "reckless and irresponsible." 
 
MAYOR ERIC ADAMS (D-NY), NEW YORK CITY: You shouldn't be speeding anywhere but this is a densely populated city. And I think all of us, I don't think 
 
 there are many of us who don't recall how his mom died. 
 
FOSTER: The Sussexes never claimed this was a high-speed car chase. In fact, their security detail told CNN that they were sticking to the letter 
 
 of the law, did not break the speed limit because they did not want to create more danger on the roads. 
 
They also point out that the cab driver was only involved in less than 10 minutes of what was a more than a two hour car chase and ordeal -- Max 
 
 Foster, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Let's discuss this further. Joining me now is CNN chief law enforcement and intelligence analyst, John Miller. 
 
John, we are, what, 24 hours on?
 
We were hearing there that we're hearing differing accounts from law enforcement about the imminent danger to the couple, even rejecting the 
 
 idea that this wasn't a near catastrophic event. 
 
What have your sources been telling you about what actually took place during this pursuit?
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: Well, the story hasn't changed. I think what we are getting is what we get when we 
 
 start talking to multiple sources and parsing different comments. 
 
For instance, the cab driver, as Max pointed out, was only there for a couple of minutes of it, which was relatively calm. But this was not a 
 
 high-speed chase; it was a long chase. It went from 96th Street on the Upper East Side, the Upper West Side across, down to 23rd Street and then 
 
 back up again through the streets. 
 
But there were moments -- and I think this is what their spokesman means by catastrophic, Christina, is there were moments when the paparazzi vehicles, 
 
 whether they were scooters or mopeds, where in one case a black car with tinted windows, actually mounted the sidewalk, where pedestrians were and 
 
 came across in order to run a red light because the motorcade had made a turn and they were being left behind. 
 
So that is the near catastrophic. They could've hit someone with a car. But as the police pointed out, that didn't actually happen. No one was injured. 
 
MACFARLANE: I don't think anyone was suggesting that the couple weren't scared or nervous. They obviously were. 
 
Whose job was it, John, to ensure public safety as this pursuit unfolded?
 
Should there be anyone held accountable for this?
 
Arrested, given the nature of how it played out?
 
Pedestrians being affected on the sidewalks. 
 
MILLER: It is a logistical problem. The two detectives who were assigned with the private security team were there in case there was some kind of 
 
 attack, stalker or assault. Their job was to be part of the protection team in case police action was required. 
 
In this case, it was a slow-moving chase that unfolded. And if you are assigned to the protection piece, you don't leave that to deal with the 
 
 traffic violations. At one point, they saw a police car that had pulled someone over. 
 
They said to the police officer, can you deal with these people as the motorcade went further. And the police officer went to stop the car that 
 
 the photographers were in. The guy held up a video camera and said something about Meghan Markle, and literally backed up and went around the 
 
 police officer and kept going. 
 
So I would suspect, in the next trip that they make here, there is going to be a couple of added elements to ensure they are not just being protected 
 
 from physical threats but that there is a traffic enforcement piece here that will be added because it sounds like it is needed. 
 
MACFARLANE: You would hope that everyone involved in this may have learned a few lessons from this incident. John Miller, great to have your thoughts. 
 
 Thank. You 
 
And this just in to CNN. 
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
MACFARLANE: Disney is scrapping plans to build a new campus in Florida, citing changing business conditions, according to a memo. 
 
This comes as the company feud with the Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, the campus was expected to bring some 2,000 jobs to Florida. We are 
 
 monitoring the story and we will bring you more details as we get them. 
 
Finally tonight, nearly two decades after someone stole Hollywood's most memorable pair of slippers, a man in Minnesota has been charged with theft. 
 
 Taken from a museum in 2005, the ruby red slippers worn by Judy Garland in "The Wizard of Oz," are famously associated with one of the film's most 
 
 iconic scenes. 
 
(VIDEO CLIP, "THE WIZARD OF OZ")
 
MACFARLANE: Officers say they were left with no clues at the crime scene aside from a single red sequin. After an FBI sting operation, the shoes 
 
 were recovered and now a 76 year old Terry Martin has been indicted. Finally, the slippers can return home. 
 
Thank you for watching tonight. Stay with CNN. "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" is up after the short break. 
 
END