Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Active Shooter in Atlanta; Explosion Over Moscow. Aired 1-1:30p ET

Aired May 03, 2023 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:00:00]
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST:  Explosion over Moscow. Russia is claiming that Ukraine was trying to assassinate Vladimir Putin by flying two drones toward the Kremlin. Kyiv is denying any attempts on Putin's life, accusing Moscow of a -- quote -- "trick."
 
The U.S. is treating Russia's claim with a great deal of skepticism right now. So what are the facts? What does this mean for the war? 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST:  Plus: a major decision just minutes from now. Will the Fed raise interest rates again, despite bank failures and the impact on consumer loan rates? What this all means for your wallet.
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST:  And a major development in the fight against Alzheimer's, a new trial that offers hope for people in the early stages of this disease. Drugmaker Eli Lilly says it will file for approval soon. 
 
We are following these major developing stories and many more, all coming in right here to CNN NEWS CENTRAL. 
 
SANCHEZ:  We begin this afternoon with breaking news. 
 
Atlanta police say that multiple people have been injured in an active shooter situation in Midtown Atlanta. 
 
We want to get straight to CNN's Nick Valencia, who joins us now live. 
 
Nick, bring us up to speed. What's the latest? 
 
NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Boris, this is a chaotic situation in the heart of Midtown Atlanta right in the middle of lunchtime. 
 
We're hearing an active situation, an active shooter that is still not yet in custody. You're looking at live pictures from our affiliate Atlanta News First, where dozens of first responders are at the scene, again, in the heart of Midtown Atlanta. 
 
No official word yet on -- a lot of the details here were very sparse, but we know that this is still very much so active. We understand that a suspect is not in custody and this is happening in the area of Northside Hospital Medical Center at a building. A tweet just a short time ago from the Atlanta Police Department says: "We are working an active shooter situation in a building on West Peachtree Street between 12th and 13th Street. We are aware of multiple people injured. No suspect in custody." 
 
Police are telling people in the area to shelter in place. That's the details that we have so far right now, as you're looking at live pictures of first responders at the scene of a very active, fluid and chaotic situation in Midtown Atlanta -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Yes, it appears that law enforcement is still arriving at the scene and even moving the yellow tape back, as you noted, a very chaotic scene. 
 
Nick, please keep us up to speed with the very latest details as you get it. 
 
Obviously, this is a story we are going to be continuing to monitor -- Jim. 
 
SCIUTTO:  Just yesterday, we were talking about nurses not wanting to work because they were concerned about their safety in the hospital. 
 
Well, other story we're following this morning, today, Russia is claiming that Ukraine targeted President Putin with two drones. Moscow says they were flown overnight toward the Kremlin, intercepted and destroyed, that Putin was not in the building at the time. 
 
CNN analysis of the video supports Russia's claim that two drones were flown above the Kremlin early Wednesday. They found no evidence of Ukrainian involvement. Volodymyr Zelenskyy denies any assassination attempt on Putin. And a spokesman for the Ukrainian president said -- quote -- "Ukraine uses all means at its disposal to free its own territory, not to attack others."
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says, not only can the U.S. not verify Russia's claims, but is taking them with a heavy dose of salt. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE:  I can't in any way validate them. We simply -- we simply don't know. 
 
Second, I would take anything coming out of the Kremlin with a very large shaker of salt. So, let's see. We will see what the facts are. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO:  CNN's Nick Paton Walsh joins us now from Ukraine. 
 
And, Nick, we should note, remember that, at the beginning of the Ukraine invasion, Russia attempted several false flag attacks that were exposed by Western intelligence. 
 
Beyond Russia's claim, it hasn't provided any evidence that this was a Ukrainian attack. What are the facts as we know them at this point? 
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: They are limited.
 
And there is, of course, now a burden on the Kremlin to provide solid, irrefutable evidence of this extraordinary claim that it made in a statement from the Kremlin, where they said there had been an attempted assassination on Vladimir Putin, and they reminded people at the end of that statement of Russia's right to retaliate, saying two drones have been flown in the Kremlin, but the Russian head wasn't there when they landed.
 <br>[13:05:07]
 
Now, videos have emerged since then, which appear to marry together, potentially suggesting some sort of incident. But it's important to point out, in this world of trickery that we live in, that that doesn't necessarily conclusively suggest that what was recorded around the Kremlin necessarily happened exactly that way in real life. 
 
So, a lot more evidence, certainly, I think, that the Kremlin should present here, because this puts them in a particularly complex or dangerous position. They have essentially admitted to an extraordinary breach of security over the heart of their government, in the center of their capital, a place, just redolent of Russian history entirely, attacked by two drones.
 
Regardless who they were flown by, that is remarkable in itself. And, of course, it's already met with calls for escalation from Russia, whose military have, frankly, been battered and beleaguered by this war at this point, having to use convicts from Russian prisons to fight on the front line, calls from former prime ministers, calls from the head of the state parliament, the speaker of the parliament, for some escalation in weaponry being used to wipe out the Kyiv regime, as they refer.
 
I'm -- I'm sort of paraphrasing there. But that's got many deeply concerned here in Ukraine about what may come next, whether Russia is looking for nonconventional tools in its arsenal to potentially use. 
 
I should point out, Ukraine, who have been accused of this, categoric from the first moment it came out they have nothing to do with it. Here's what Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had to say on a trip to Finland about it. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT:  We don't attack Putin or Moscow. We fight on our territory. We are defending our villages and cities. We don't have, you know, enough weapon for this. That's why we don't use it anywhere. 
 
For us, that is a deficit, that we can't spend it. And we didn't attack Putin. We leave it to tribunal. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) WALSH:  Now, a clear message there from Kyiv. 
 
But, remember, we are hours, if not days away from Ukraine's counteroffensive, in which most analysts think Russia is likely to do quite badly, given the volume of NATO weaponry, training and assistance for that particular push. Perhaps that is somehow related to this extraordinary claim from the Kremlin. 
 
But many here in Ukraine are deeply worried because of Moscow's history of saying they have been attacked and using that as a justification to escalate their tactics, many saying, what else could they do here in Ukraine, with civilians bombed indiscriminately, it seems, every night, but real concerns it could get worse -- Jim.
 
SCIUTTO:  And it's notable too because Ukrainians have often stayed silent on other attacks on Russian territory in the past, this one, the president explicitly saying, no, it was not a Ukrainian attack.
 
Our Nick Paton Walsh there in Kyiv, thanks so much. 
 
And, Boris, I was thinking as I was watching that video, it would be a pretty remarkable breach of Russian air defenses for a drone like that to fly all the way across the country and hit the Kremlin. 
 
SANCHEZ:  And the border is some 300 miles away. So you have to imagine, could they have seen it on radar? 
 
Let's get answers to that and much more with CNN military analyst Colonel Cedric Leighton. 
 
Colonel Leighton, before we get into that detail about the distance that the drone may have flown, let's take a look at this video we have been watching over and over again. With your expert eyes, what do you see as the drone explodes right there? 
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST:  Yes, right there, Boris, what you're looking at is a direct hit. 
 
So, the anti-aircraft weaponry that the Kremlin has deployed around it for protection purposes was clearly engaged. And it seemed -- to my eyes, it seems as if they knew exactly what they were shooting at and when that target would be arriving in their area. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Another thing that's interesting, there are two people apparently climbing this dome. 
 
And I also wanted to point out, there is a large stage and seating here. It's in anticipation of May 9, Victory Day, a big symbolic day for Russia, perhaps a day that Ukraine might have wanted to target. 
 
LEIGHTON:  Well, that's possible, because, as you said, Boris, May 9 is a really big holiday from a military perspective in Russia. This is where they show a lot of their weaponry, have done so historically ever since the end of World War II.
 
And you see the 9 my -- 9 May signage here with the Russian flag and the sands. All of this is getting ready for a major military parade. And so, from a symbolic perspective, it would make sense for somebody to attack something like this, but it also would be a perfect place to mount a false flag operation. 
 
SANCHEZ:  That is a good point.
 
As we take another look, this is a new angle of the drone exploding. You see it here in the upper left. And this view is important because of the context, because of what you see. This is very close to Red Square. St. Basil's Cathedral is just off to the right there, not far from Annunciation Cathedral as well. 
 
You imagine that this area must be very well-protected. 
 
LEIGHTON:  Absolutely. 
 
And if we look at the map right here, Red Square is right here. This is where the parade would be taking place.
 <br>[13:10:02]
 
SANCHEZ:  Right.
 
LEIGHTON:  Annunciation Cathedral, that's where the czars received confession, where -- it was their personal chapel during the time of the czars. 
 
So, it's a huge, symbolic place as far as Russia is concerned, and they would obviously want to protect it. And St. Basil's, of course, is very famous as part of the Kremlin structure itself. 
 
SANCHEZ:  So, to the point that Jim made about the credulity of the Russian claim that this was Ukraine, let's pull up the map. 
 
This is some 300 miles away from the Ukrainian border. You imagine that this drone didn't even take off from here. Given what you know about Ukraine's capabilities and Russia's capabilities to see what's coming, does it seem likely that this was a Ukrainian attack?
 
LEIGHTON:  Unlikely from -- for that very reason, because the Russians have radar installations all along this area right here. 
 
And the place where they would most likely be launching something like this from would be about here. And, given that fact, that's a little bit longer than 300 miles. It would take a lot of fuel. It would take loitering time that some of these drones have.
 
Now, it is possible that Ukraine could have mounted this operation from inside Russia using special operations forces. That is not beyond the realm of possibility, but it is unlikely, even though they have mounted attacks, allegedly, against the areas in the south, against air bases, things like that. So these are the areas that can be targeted. 
 
But it's very difficult to do that. And, as President Zelenskyy said, they don't target the leadership. Russia does. Russia will use this as an excuse to probably do something like that, but it is highly unlikely that it came from Ukraine.
 
SANCHEZ:  And, as far as we know, the U.S., the West hasn't provided Ukraine with that kind of equipment, so it further strains credulity. 
 
Colonel Cedric Leighton, always appreciate your perspective. Thank you so much for that. 
 
Let's go back to Brianna with the breaking news we were following at the top of the hour. 
 
KEILAR:  All right, Boris, for keeping our eye on Atlanta right now, where we're following an active shooter situation in Midtown. 
 
I do want to bring in CNN's Ryan Young, who is there on scene. 
 
And, Ryan, we have you on the phone. 
 
I just want to give our viewers a sense of what we're looking at, some pictures coming to us from our affiliate WSB. We're looking here at Midtown Atlanta. And we have been seeing Marshals and troopers, some of them with shields, as they're facing this active shooter situation. 
 
What are you learning there on the ground? 
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, absolutely. 
 
I'm probably on the other side of that picture that you're seeing right now near a command post. We have SWAT teams from around the area who converged on this location. So, we have the Atlanta Police Department. We have the Highway Patrol. We have the U.S. Marshals, and we have the MARTA, which is part (AUDIO GAP) lines and is also trying to help with this.
 
This active shooter call went out after, apparently, a man was at a medical appointment with his mother, from what I'm being told by a source. During that visit, something happened. The man became enraged. And he started shooting inside that medical office. 
 
We have been told at least three people have been shot. I'm not sure of their condition right now. But I do know some of the people who were shot are in grave condition. At that point, the all alert put out. APD swarmed this area. They activated their SWAT team.
 
The man is on the run. They do know his identity. They have pictures that are circulating among the command staff of what this man looks like. They believe there's a building that they're focused on right now to see if he went into the building. There are several large structures in this area. 
 
So, it's going to make it very difficult for them to sort of go through -- go through the garages, go through the lobbies, go floor by floor to find out who this man is. They have a very accurate description of him. In fact, I believe his mother is going to be talking to police in the next few minutes, because she obviously might be the key in trying to calm this man down. They also have aerial support in the area to see if the man tries to
 
 leave some of these buildings, very active scene in the middle of this city, obviously during the afternoon. People were desperately calling 911, because, when the shots started firing, people started running, and the all-call came out as an active shooter. 
 
KEILAR:  All right, Ryan, if you can stand by for us.
 
Ryan Young is there for us in Midtown Atlanta as all of this is developing. 
 
And I want to bring in our Josh Campbell, as we are talking about what is really a developing story there in Atlanta. 
 
Josh, we have just been monitoring these pictures coming into us from the scene. You heard Ryan's report there. We actually saw some Atlanta police, some Marshals, some troopers who appeared to be staging. 
 
And then here, just about a couple minutes ago, they sort of proceeded forward toward, it appears, this building that you hear Ryan describing authorities are going to be going through, searching for this man, and that, at this point, there are at least three people who have been pretty seriously injured in this. 
 
Can you give us an idea of what law enforcement is dealing with right now? 
 
JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Brianna.
 
So there's a lot, obviously, that we don't know about what's happening inside that building right now. But we can glean some information just looking at the pictures themselves we were just seeing where you have officers who have set up a containment of this area.
 <br>[13:15:02]
 
One thing that we're not seeing, which is potentially telling, is this flooding of additional police. Obviously, we see a lot of officer apparent vehicles there lined up, but you're not seeing more resources coming and coming and coming. 
 
And so that likely tells us that they at least have this person, or at least the area where this occurred, surrounded. But you're not seeing this massive perimeter that's been set up. I mean, a moment ago, we saw a traffic control officer there directing traffic just a couple blocks from what appears to be the centralized zone there. 
 
And you also see some of those fire department vehicles that are staged. We often see that in these active shooter-type situations, because medical personnel are among those that are responding. But if it still is a hot zone where you have a potential threat, you're not going to see the medical personnel rushing in initially. 
 
And so one thing we often also see in this instance is this flooding of resources. We know that, in this era where we see active shooters, we see gun violence all the time, regardless of what badge an officer wears, the patch on their shoulder, they go.
 
And that's why we have seen the Fulton County Marshals, the State Troopers, local police, all of these officers converging. 
 
KEILAR:  And -- and, Josh...
 
CAMPBELL:  It seems that they are -- go ahead, Brianna.
 
KEILAR:  ... if you can pause for just a moment, because I do want to show our viewers, at this point, you actually have the Atlanta Police Department, and they have tweeted out this photo of the suspect, a BOLO here, a be on the lookout, because this suspect is still at large. 
 
They just put this out minutes ago. A photo appears to be in an elevator of the suspect inside, it appears, of this building. 
 
But, Josh, continue. Obviously, they want people to be aware of who this person is, as they are on the lookout for them right now. 
 
CAMPBELL:  No, that's right. 
 
And the photo you're seeing there is one of about four, I believe, that police have sent out. This is the only photo where you can actually see the suspect's face. It appears -- or the person of interest, I should say. It appears that, in these photos, he's wearing a mask in this facility. 
 
But this is the one photo where you're actually seeing his face. And that is because authorities are now in the information-gathering stage, where they want the public, if you have information, if you see this person, they want to hear from you. 
 
We don't yet know, again, what the containment is like, if they believe that this person is confined to a particular area, or if this indeed was a shooting that the person fled. But, again, they're certainly, it appears, by this posture of law enforcement, with all these vehicles -- you now see the tactical up-armored BearCat heading toward the camera there in and around the scene -- that they have all the personnel that they would need to find one person if they're in this confined area.
 
But there's just a lot that we don't know about where this person might be at this hour. Police did say they are aware that there are -- quote -- "multiple injuries." Again, they're not saying gunshot wounds. We don't know. Oftentimes, we have seen people injured as they're trying to flee some type of incident as well. 
 
KEILAR:  Josh...
 
CAMPBELL:  But, again, a lot of questions right now, but certainly a heavy law enforcement presence. 
 
KEILAR:  Tell us about that vehicle, the BearCat, that you just referred to. Tell us about what they're doing bringing that in and what that means. CAMPBELL:  So, these are the specially trained tactical teams that we
 
 have seen in many departments across the country. 
 
It's the so-called SWAT team, right, that are called in when you have particularly a violent situation. They are specially trained where you have -- you know, think about it. You have officers that are out on the beat. They're out on patrol. They're working traffic.
 
These officers, all they do is train, train, train and execute the most dangerous missions that occur. And that's when you have a violent suspect. And that vehicle you just saw there is the same type of equipment they bring to bear. It is armored. If they need to insert themselves into a particular area, all of that armor provides, obviously, protection for the officers. 
 
We also saw earlier many officers that were carrying -- carrying what appeared to be ballistic shields for that area. They weren't sprinting toward the area. So, again, I couch this by saying there's a lot we -- we don't know about what's happening inside, but just this posture, where they appear to be staging, at least tells us right now that there's likely not gunfire that's continuing. 
 
Again, this appeared to happen, at least according to the messaging for police, over half-an-hour ago, at least when the first message went out from Metro Police that there was a situation. And so, just by the nature of these officers now staging -- and they're not standing around. They're waiting if they're going to be tasked somewhere.
 
But we don't see them rushing into any particular area, which, again, signals to us that the emergent phase of this or at least the "active shooter" -- quote -- phase of this is likely over. But, again, until they find this person, until they give that all-clear, they're going to have all the personnel that they need in order to help find this person. 
 
KEILAR:  Yes. And it see -- we're seeing other vehicles, law enforcement vehicles, in the background there, that appear to be readying themselves, should they be needed. 
 
Josh, if you can stay with us, I do want to go to nearby the scene, where Ryan Young is.
 
Ryan, we're looking at a picture there of Midtown Atlanta. We are seeing law enforcement as they're staging. We are seeing a number of fire department vehicles, ambulances ready for whatever this may bring. What are you learning there on the ground? 
 
YOUNG:  Well, I think Josh had a good point there. 
 <br>[13:20:00]
 
And so what I have learned from sources that I have here in the Atlanta Police Department, because the officers are preparing for active shooters all the time, they were able to set up a perimeter with their officers pretty soon after the shooting happened, and then bring the SWAT team in. Sorry for the wind, guys. We're walking (INAUDIBLE).
 
But at the same time, what they wanted to do is make sure no one could get outside the containment. So, once they set that containment up, they were able to bring in their SWAT team and additional resources. 
 
I'm being told right now that four patients have been involved. Three patients have been transported. So we're not sure if the three people have been shot or what's going on. We are actually inside the perimeter where they have set up all these officers at this point.
 
They're focused on one building right now. So, again, they believe this man came to a location with his mother and at some point became agitated and started shooting inside that facility. I have even been told that nurses had to grab their patients and try to lock the door, so they wouldn't be injured. 
 
So this is still all evolving, and we are trying to walk away through Midtown, because they have shut down all the streets around the surrounding area in down -- in Midtown Atlanta. 
 
KEILAR:  And what can you tell us at this point, if you know, at all about what may have agitated this person and if law enforcement believes that this is something that happened spontaneously, or if they think maybe this person came with a plan? 
 
Because that may change what unfolds from this point.
 
YOUNG:  Yes, not to burn my source here, what I was told, essentially, is that this man came to the location agitated, and something during that medical call set him off. 
 
And, of course, they were concerned, because you see this bag that he's wearing in this picture that they released.
 
KEILAR:  Sure. 
 
YOUNG:  And they believe that that's where he had his weapon. 
 
It's a cooler day than normal, and so he came in with that hoodie. I have talked to other people who were worried that maybe he ditched that hoodie at some point, and that's why they wanted to get this picture out very quickly to the public to make sure, if anyone sees someone like this, that they can respond quickly. 
 
So, right now, like, we're standing amongst several of the SWAT team members, and they do have a defensive posture right now. But, obviously, there are a couple of locations that they're heavily focused on as we speak. 
 
KEILAR:  Yes. And we see some of them staging. You can actually see some of them gathering with a lot of equipment as well, as we are awaiting a resolution here. 
 
Ryan, if you can continue to work your sources, if you can stay there for us on the scene working this story there in Midtown Atlanta, I want to bring in Juliette Kayyem. 
 
Juliette, what questions do you have as you are looking at what is developing here in Atlanta with this active shooter still at large? 
 
JULIETTE KAYYEM, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST:  Yes, so this is -- this is now a manhunt. 
 
I want to just reiterate and repeat what our reporters are saying. All of us have been in this space a long time, so we know how to interpret some of the imagery that you're seeing. This is a police department and a law enforcement effort that surges quickly, as it should when it hears there's an active shooter, and is now essentially in positioning stage.
 
It means that they are awaiting orders, but they are not being told to go in. So they have probably been told that there's no longer an active shooter threat. So they are either waiting to draw down the incident command. So people will see all of this and think it means something. It doesn't necessarily.
 
When this works right, you get the surge of resources, and then you draw back, because it's easier -- it's always easier to draw back. So, what the police did smartly -- and this is -- all of these changes have occurred only in the last 10 years -- is, instead of thinking the police can do it, they know there's lots of people who have their eyes on the areas around these soft targets, in particular, medical facilities, is, they have gotten the pictures out in no time, and are now engaging the community to say, do you know where he is? 
 
Not who he is. They know who he is, and they know what he's done. It's just where he is. A manhunt starting this quickly means they have some suspicion of where he is. And one would hope that this can end safe for everyone in the arena. 
 
So that's where we are right now, until we get an official death toll, if any, or injury toll. 
 
KEILAR:  OK, so explain this to us, Juliette, because you said, looking at the scene here, as you were seeing the rhythms of this situation...
 
KAYYEM:  Yes. 
 
KEILAR:  ... your understanding would be that there is no longer an active shooter situation in progress.
 
KAYYEM:  Yes.
 
KEILAR:  However, we do know, with police tweeting, that there is a suspect at large. 
 
Certainly, one would presume...
 <br>[13:25:00]
 
KAYYEM:  Yes. KEILAR:  ... that the danger is not over here. 
 
So, explain that all to us. 
 
KAYYEM:  Yes.
 
Yes, so, when it works well -- we're so used to Uvalde and looking at that. When it works well, the active shooter protocols -- obviously, the medical facility had one, which is good -- is, law enforcement hears about an active shooter protocol, they are getting messaging out to the community and surrounding areas, locked down. They're closing off the streets. 
 
You basically try to minimize the harm at this stage because you have no idea what's going on. They just massively surge resources. I heard that the U.S. Marshals are there, anyone who can actually come and help, because at the moment of the first call, you simply do not know what is going on. 
 
Then, as more information comes out, he left the facility, he was seen running down the street, then they can begin to essentially withdraw what they search. And so that is what we are seeing. And it's proved by the police now saying they're in a search posture, not a lockdown posture. They're locked down just to make sure that we're safe. 
 
But, remember, sometimes, things get worse when people enter a building and find out what actually occurred. We don't know. But the posturing of the police is a well-known -- sort of what we have all seen, which is they're not -- they're not letting someone shoot someone in the building right now. 
 
They have been told that part of this is over, and now it's the search. 
 
KEILAR:  And thank you so much for helping us decipher what you are seeing there. 
 
Juliette, you mentioned that they have called in the Marshals. We actually saw a couple of them there as they were starting to move with shields towards the scene, not very quickly, but certainly as they were surging resources. 
 
Juliette, if you could stand by for us. 
 
Boris and Jim, I do want to get over to you, as we are watching this scene and these pictures coming in from WANF, right now, multiple injuries. And, according to our Ryan Young on the scene there -- he's talking to his sources in the area -- some of these injuries are critical from a suspect in this medical building, a suspect at large at this point, but perhaps an active shooter situation that may no longer be in effect, but certainly dangerous nonetheless. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Yes.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCIUTTO:  Well, listen, from the law enforcement presence there, they are certainly treating it as an existing risk, right? 
 
And we should acknowledge to folks watching at home how familiar a scene this is in this country, the shots from the street, the shots from the air, police arriving, ambulances arriving, another shooting in America, as Brianna was saying, multiple people injured, that according to the police department. 
 
The location of this, the Northside Hospital Medical, Midtown. And we do have an I.D. -- or photo, I should say, that police have shared in a be on the lookout, a BOLO, as it's known, the Atlanta Police Department, which I think we could show on the air again. I think it's important to share this information, so that anybody who might be in the area -- and there it is -- can provide police with information if they see the suspect. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Yes.
 
And, as we should note, our reporter on the ground, Ryan Young, sort of described the preliminary understanding of what police say happened. They say that this suspect arrived at the hospital with his mother apparently agitated, and then something occurred. We're not sure exactly what just yet, but something took place that set him off, and then he opened fire, multiple injuries, as we you have heard, some of them critical. 
 
We're now getting some sound from a witness who saw what happened, and we want to play that for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I called a couple of my family members. 
 
It's like, hey, it's an active shooter in the city. If anything happen to me, I just want you all to know that I can't get back into the building. And I'm out here really in the streets, and they're telling me that I just have to keep moving and keep moving backwards and backwards from my actual original location. 
 
So, it's just tough right now. I can't get back to work. 
 
QUESTION:  Them pushing us back, how much does that suggest to you, expanding their perimeter? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It's really -- that's -- that's -- that's dangerous. 
 
It let me know that the situation is not something that can be taken lightly. They're definitely taking all the precautions that they can by pushing us this far back. And it just makes me wonder, where is he? He -- it could be any one of us -- not any one of us, but it could be anybody out here right now. 
 
And we don't really know who's the shooter -- shooter -- or where -- his whereabouts. 
 
QUESTION:  So, we were just obviously just talking off-camera. We're live right now on Channel 2 Action News. 
 
I'm glad you're OK. I know you were talking about that -- just trying to catch your breath now, but, again, can you just take us through what just unfolded? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I was -- well, I work in the building right next to where the shooting took place. 
 
And I was going on my lunch break. I was crossing, crossing over to go into Whole Foods. And, all of a sudden, they was pushing us out of the building.