Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Data Shows Last Month was Hottest November on Record; Kenyan President: UAE Hosting COP a "Step in the Right Direction"; Hamas- Controlled Health Ministry: 15,000 Plus Killed in Gaza; Gaza Residents Mourn the Death Amid Renewed Airstrikes; Venezuelans Vote to Create New State on Land in Guyana. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired December 04, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNNI HOST: Well, it's 6 pm here in Dubai. I'm Becky Anderson. You're watching "Connect the World". The Israeli military is 
 
 ramping up airstrikes after announcing it was expanding the ground assault to all of Gaza.
 
The President of the COP28 Climate Summit makes controversial comments about fossil fuels and then defends his commitment to science. We will 
 
 explain. And in the Red Sea, a U.S. Navy destroyer comes to the rescue of three commercial ships attacked by Iran backed Houthi rebels.
 
Well, there is almost nowhere the people of Gaza can get go to -- to get out of harm's way. Israel warns it is expanding ground operations against 
 
 Hamas in the entirety of Gaza, including places where civilians previously sought shelter and it is calling on people to move even further south.
 
Nearly 80 percent of the population is already displaced now many are having to move again. These people are heading to Rafah but even there it 
 
 isn't safe. A warning the video you are about to see may be disturbing. Well, this is the aftermath of an airstrike in Rafah; the Israeli military 
 
 says it struck 200 Hamas targets overnight.
 
Qatar calling for de-escalation and a ceasefire in the war between Israel and Hamas that's from a discussion between the Qatari Prime Minister and 
 
 the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken. Excuse me, Qatar played a key role of course in negotiating last week's truce and the U.S. says it is 
 
 working to revive those talks.
 
CNN's Arlette Saenz is at the White House. Arlette, what is the U.S. doing to try and get these talks back on track and how hopeful is it that that 
 
 could happen anytime soon?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well Becky, the U.S. is trying to push both sides to return to the negotiating table to try to get 
 
 another pause and get these hostages released out of Gaza. A senior administration official over the weekend saying that they are going to take 
 
 every step possible to try to get these hostages back but really what remains unclear is whether there is any hope that this could be done in the 
 
 immediate future as these hostilities between Israel and Hamas have resumed.
 
Now over the weekend Vice President Kamala Harris held several phone calls and meetings with Arab Leaders as she traveled in Dubai, including a 
 
 meeting a sit down meeting with Egyptian President El-Sisi as well as the Emir of Qatar. Both of those leaders were key in these initial negotiations 
 
 to secure the release of women and children being held by Hamas.
 
The U.S. and Israel have insisted that the onus is on Hamas to adhere to the original terms of the deal. But Hamas has said that they will not 
 
 release any more hostages or talk about releasing hostage until there is a complete ceasefire.
 
So the White House while they say that they are trying to pursue every step to try to get these hostages home, that it appears that those talks simply 
 
 seem to be at this time, with Qatari counterparts with Egyptian counterparts and the Israelis. And it's really unclear whether there could 
 
 be any progress made on this front, as these hostilities have been continuing over the past few days.
 
ANDERSON: Arlette briefly, Antony Blinken's conversation with the Prime Minister of Qatar, was there anything tangible that came out of that?
 
SAENZ: Well, the U.S. so far has been offered readout of that conversation. But the Qataris did say that the Prime Minister pressed for de-escalation 
 
 and a ceasefire in this moment. He did also warned Blinken that the continued bombing that is going on in Gaza since this truce ended its 
 
 complicating efforts towards mediation.
 
Mediation when it comes to hostages, and also trying to get humanitarian aid it. One thing that the administration has also been pushing very 
 
 heavily in recent days is the need for Israelis to protect civilian life as they are waging this campaign. But it remains to be seen whether the 
 
 Israelis are taking enough steps to satisfy what the U.S. has been calling for so far.
 
ANDERSON: Arlette, good to have you. Thank you. Arlette Saenz is at the White House. President of COP28 hitting out critic Sultan Al Jaber 
 
 defending his commitment to science. He says he was misrepresented about recent comments such as "There is no science behind requiring an end to 
 
 fossil fuels to limit global warming". Let's have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SULTAN AHMED AL JABER, PRESIDENT, COP28: Everything this presidency has been working on continues to work on is focused on and centered around the 
 
 science. And I have been crystal clear on that point and every opportunity.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, the future of fossil fuels of course, a hot button issue here at what is this ongoing Climate Summit and following the money is also 
 
 big. That's because funding for climate equality is taking center stage today. As you will know from watching this program, billions of dollars 
 
 have already been pledged to help developing nations make the green transition.
 
Well, for its part the European Union is on record calling for the phase out of fossil fuels. The EU delegation says it is pushing for that language 
 
 to be part of the final agreement here in Dubai. Joining me now is a key member of that delegation, European Energy Commissioner Kadri Simson it's 
 
 good to have you here.
 
Let's just drill down and be clear on what we are at here and where the EU is at. What's the Commission's position when it comes to climate science 
 
 and fossil fuels?
 
KADRI SIMSON, EUROPEAN ENERGY COMMISSIONER: Well, we know that this is crucial to achieve carbon peak as soon as possible. So this is the least 
 
 thing that we can achieve during our negotiations. But of course, we also know that Europe has a strong story to tell, we face severest energy crisis 
 
 of this century.
 
And our response was clear. We accelerated our clean transition, because only by replacing fossil fuels there's renewables, we can bring our 
 
 consumers more affordable prices. And that helps us also to tackle the climate change.
 
ANDERSON: I want to talk about some of the winds as it were, that have come out of this Climate Summit today. And some of those very squarely got the 
 
 EU's prints on them. Before I do that, I do want to talk about the negotiations.
 
Because ultimately at the end of this COP, it will be the statement that comes out that will steer the world in whatever direction it is that the 
 
 wording suggests. How does the EU as a block approach fossil fuels phase out? What is your position in these negotiations?
 
SIMSON: We have a set target for climate neutrality by 2050. We are right now working on our targets for 2014. And we know that we will need all the 
 
 tools to cut significantly our CO2 emissions so doing that we can also convince our international partners so that business as usual is not 
 
 possible.
 
On top of that we are very committed to bring our pledge to the final document. This was all about covering and increasing energy consumption by 
 
 renewable. So tripling our renewable production by the end of this decade helps us to avoid new investments in fossil fuels.
 
ANDERSON: What will that wording look like to the EU, as its negotiating that final communique? I'm going to press you on this. Does it say phase 
 
 out phase down fossil fuels either of those or not at all?
 
SIMSON: Well, negotiations are ongoing. But from my field of responsibility, I think that the most important thing is to agree that peak 
 
 of fossil fuels is happening now. And we don't postpone it to the end of this decade, because that would mean that there will be future investments 
 
 in the new fossil fuel production facilities and that we cannot afford.
 
ANDERSON: You're not going to tell me whether the wording out of the EU is going to be phase down and phase out?
 
SIMSON: We're at the very initial stage of negotiations, as I know.
 
ANDERSON: Promise me to come back in and provide me -- more grist on that. I do want to talk about renewables very briefly because that's such an 
 
 important topic that pledged to triple renewable energy capacity and double energy efficiency. What that also means is that we need to take a look at 
 
 permitting, at policy.
 
And really importantly at the transmission, it's all very well that we produce more renewables going forward. How do they get to the light switch 
 
 that I want to turn on in my house wherever I live? How do you deal with the grid?
 
SIMSON: That's very true. We have to upgrade our fleet capacity because our towns or cities were not built to charge all the electric vehicles and heat 
 
 or cool our homes with heat pumps. But on top of that also we have to take care of these millions, hundreds of millions of people who don't have 
 
 access to electricity. And what EU is doing we are financing globally energy transition.
 
And for many Africans the access to electricity means so that we will create small micro creates. So they will not be connected to them big coal 
 
 fired power plants. But they will have their own or freed -- solar or wind installations.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
And by doing so we don't ignore the fact that there are 700 million people who don't have access. We will take care of them. But take care of them in 
 
 such a way that no harm is done.
 
ANDERSON: Finally, the European Green Deal, just explain for our viewers where that ultimately takes the EU? And what else is it here that you are 
 
 proud of when it comes to -- I mean, we can talk about loss and damage and the money that the EU and European countries have put in. But what are your 
 
 key takeaways from here with regard the European perspective?
 
SIMSON: I think that when we presented our Green Deal four years ago, then we were clear that this is our growth strategy. But now it is also a part 
 
 of our security of supply strategy. And last year was record year. We installed more solar and wind than ever before.
 
We produced more electricity for wind and solar than from gas, natural gas and that was also first time in our history. This year will be even better. 
 
 We will have more solar online, more wind online. And now we have to take care that these clean tech solutions are also -- that they will be produced 
 
 in Europe. That doesn't mean that we will close our market, but we will need so much more than we have installed the solar.
 
ANDERSON: There's been a big fight between Europe and the U.S. when it comes to what is effectively the climate legislation through the IRA (ph) 
 
 deal the legislation that the U.S. has put on the books. That was restrictive, wasn't it?
 
SIMSON: Yes, but at the same time if our like-minded partners will invest into new innovative solutions then it will bring down the cost. And what we 
 
 have to do, we have to scale up the production so that third countries will also benefit from the initial investments done by us.
 
ANDERSON: Kadri, where do you see the bottlenecks to success?
 
SIMSON: I think that we need public awareness and acceptance. What we saw in Europe how we managed to respond to this Russian manipulation also that 
 
 our households, our industry was eager to cut their consumption. But also they invested a lot into green solutions. So we didn't spend only to 
 
 subsidize the extreme prices triggered by fossil fuel consumption.
 
But we also invested into rooftop solar, new wind farms, heat pumps and we will continue to do so. So public awareness so that this really makes a 
 
 difference and then of course the network that we need, so there will be no transition without transmission.
 
ANDERSON: A no transition without transmission, I like that. Thank you. Good to have you.
 
SIMSON: Thank you.
 
ANDERSON: Still to come, as world leaders meet here in Dubai to discuss a rapidly warming world. I speak with a President who says his country is 
 
 committed to going 100 percent green and that progress is being made at COP28. Well, a U.S. warship shot down multiple drones in the Red Sea on 
 
 Sunday, details ahead on the latest attacks launched by Yemen's Houthi rebels. More on that is after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, new data shows that last month was the warmest record, sorry, the warmest November on record. Japan's Meteorological Agency says 
 
 it beat the previous record set three years ago by 0.3 degrees Celsius. And that is a disturbing trend of late isn't it with every month since June 
 
 being the hottest such month on record.
 
Now, scientists blame this year's exceptional warmth on the combined effects of El Nino and human caused climate change and say 2023 year is 
 
 almost certain to be the hottest year on record. Well, it's a sobering backdrop to COP28 here in Dubai. I've been speaking with a lot of people, 
 
 including with the Kenyan President William Ruto, who's widely considered one of Africa's leading climate champions.
 
He told me that this COP, he is cautiously optimistic about some visible steps forward and he says he is committed to making Kenya 100 percent green 
 
 by 2030. Here's that interview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILLIAM RUTO, KENYAN PRESIDENT: I'm very happy cautiously, that in this COP at least I see some measure of progress. But finally, I think with the 
 
 announcement by UAE and others, the EU America on the loss and damage fund, that is progress.
 
ANDERSON: The United States has offered 17.5. Now it wasn't interested in even having a conversation about loss and damage a year ago. But they are 
 
 now. It's 17.5 from the United States frankly, sir, is that enough?
 
RUTO: The journey of 1000 kilometers starts with one step. You have saved yourself that they weren't even willing to have this conversation a year 
 
 ago. Today they are putting money. It means tomorrow their whole story will have changed because they realize that we are unrelenting. They realize 
 
 that we're not going to shut up.
 
And they realize that this is not something that they can run away from. They are squarely responsible. We must do this together. And it's just a 
 
 matter of time for all of us to realize that there is no north. There is no south. There is no east. There is no west. We're all in it together. And 
 
 therefore everybody must bring their resources onto the table.
 
We are all agreed today that there is need to look at alternative sources of revenue, that carbon pricing, carbon tax is now a firm option on the 
 
 table. And we will be launching a plan with a UAE, France and other coalition partners on a new charter for climate financing.
 
ANDERSON: What would that look like?
 
RUTO: That will take into account matters like how do we -- how do the billions that oil companies are making? How do they seed 5, 10 percent of 
 
 their profits to sort out the climate menace we have? How do we tax marine transport? How do we tax air transport?
 
How do we have a targeted financial transaction tax so that we can raise additional revenue in billions that will be raised by everybody so that 
 
 it's not about the donors, it's not about the people who are contributing, it's about all of us because this is an existential problem.
 
ANDERSON: You have talked about the fossil fuel industry there and the maritime industry there. These are huge emitting industries, are they sold 
 
 on the project?
 
RUTO: At least they're sitting on the table, and we're having the conversation. That's how it starts. That's how it started with the 
 
 multilateral development bank that's how we started with the loss and damage. So people will resist for a while until they see the point.
 
The fact that you UAE a major emitter is actually hosting coke and we are having a conversation about renewable energy and they are investing in 
 
 renewable energy is a step in the right direction.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
ANDERSON: Just talk about carbon credits, there are huge tracts of forest land being bought up in Africa to offset carbon. A UAE based company Blue 
 
 Carbon at the heart of that. And I know that you have been talking to Blue Carbon about what happens next with regard Kenya.
 
RUTO: Let me tell you that the whole space around carbon pricing, carbon credit, carbon market is a new field. What we insisted in the Nairobi 
 
 Declaration of African Leaders is that we must have integrity around that space. We must have integrity around carbon pricing. We must have integrity 
 
 about carbon markets and about carbon trading.
 
And that is the reason why we are changing regulations. We are changing policy. We are providing incentives for investment in this new field. And 
 
 what we are saying and why I'm confident is that slowly the World Bank has taken up this challenge. And now we're going to have a uniform carbon price 
 
 for carbon trading.
 
Once we have integrity around carbon pricing and the carbon markets and carbon trading, we will use the price of carbon to raise resources for our 
 
 own development and for funding, development needs of countries that have these huge resources among us them Kenya and other African countries.
 
ANDERSON: President Ruto, you have talked about wanting Africa to be a power house in the green transition. What does that look like?
 
RUTO: We actually are a powerhouse because we have 60 percent of the world's renewable energy. We have 40 percent of the world's minerals 
 
 necessary for energy transition. We have the largest tracks of land for smart agriculture. And we have the largest natural carbon sinks or nature 
 
 sinks. So we are indeed the new kid in the block, the powerhouse around renewable energy.
 
ANDERSON: You say that, and I hear you. I also know that there are African countries who are looking to exploit new oil and gas reserves and that 
 
 include Kenya. Is it OK to be exploiting new reserves of oil and gas in Africa?
 
RUTO: Until you have the resources. And that is what we're working on. Until you have adequate resources to invest in renewable energy. Naturally, 
 
 if you have the resources at the moment to invest in transition you know the transition energies that are there, whether they are fossil fuel or gas 
 
 or I mean it makes business sense. This is not something that's going to happen overnight. For Kenya our target is to have all renewable energy by 
 
 2030.
 
ANDERSON: But there will be oil and gas assets included in that. So are you talking about a net zero, oil and gas industry included in that mix?
 
RUTO: For your information we have slowed down our investment in fossil fuels in Kenya. We do not have any fossil fuel resources at the moment in 
 
 Kenya. All we have is the normal fuel we import from everywhere else. But we are now starting a huge e-mobility program to make sure that we change 
 
 all our transport into one that uses renewable energy. Immobility is the new trajectory for Kenya. And it is my commitment that by 2030 Kenya will 
 
 be 100 percent green.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: That's President Ruto you heard it here first. Still to come on CNN, hear from family members grieving the loss of their loved ones in 
 
 Gaza, including this woman whose daughter and grandchildren were killed. And more commercial vessels targeted by Houthi rebel attacks, details ahead 
 
 and how the U.S. navy responded.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. I'm Becky Anderson in Dubai. You are watching "Connect the World". President of the Red Cross is in Gaza today to 
 
 reiterate an appeal to protect civilian lives on all sides of the wall. And Xi is calling for an unimpeded and regular flow of aid to enter Gaza.
 
Her remarks come as Israel warned on Sunday it is expanding ground operations against Hamas to include all of Gaza including southern areas 
 
 where many people have taken shelter. Meantime, in Northern Gaza the Hamas run government media office claimed earlier that the Israeli military had 
 
 struck the Kamal Adwan Hospital.
 
A doctor at the hospital told CNN, the strike targeted the northern entrance to the medical center and 10 people were killed. CNN has reached 
 
 out to the Israeli Defense Forces for comment on any strikes in that hospitals vicinity. Well, this comes as more than 15,000 Palestinians have 
 
 been killed and more than 40,000 others have sustained injuries since this war started. That's according to the Hamas controlled Ministry of Health in 
 
 Gaza.
 
CNN's Ben Wedeman reports on family members mourning the loss of their loved ones and shows us how hospitals in Gaza are struggling to help those 
 
 in need. But a warning his report contains disturbing content and images.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Look around. This is Gaza City's Al-Alhi Baptist Hospital where the wounded are 
 
 treated in the open on wooden pallets. The emergency ward is already jammed. The courtyard is full of body bags. Dozens were killed in a series 
 
 of Israeli strikes Saturday, many more still under the rubble.
 
Israel claims one of those strikes killed a senior Hamas commander who helped plan the 7th October attacks. He was perhaps one dead among many, 
 
 many others. This woman lost her daughter and grandchildren and names them all. And may God judge those watching us die, she cries.
 
It's a similar scene in Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in Central Gaza, more wounded, many of them children, more dead many of them children. They 
 
 bombed an entire street says Saad (ph) he pulled his brother Mohammed (ph) from under the rubble. But his brother Mohammed was dead, says Saad. Let me 
 
 say goodbye to him.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
My father has been killed cries this boy after a strike on the Jabalya Refugee Camp Sunday. The seven day truce seems like the distant past. Ben 
 
 Wedeman CNN, Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: If you would like to information on how you can help with humanitarian relief efforts, please go to cnn.com/impact. You'll find a 
 
 list of vetted organizations providing assistance that is cnn.com/impact.
 
Well, the U.S. military says an American warship shot down two rebel drones in the Southern Red Sea on Sunday. The USS Carney was responding to 
 
 distress calls from commercial vessels when it shot down Houthi drones headed in the ship's direction.
 
The U.S. said in total four attacks were launched by Iranian backed Houthi rebels in Yemen against commercial vessels tied to different, several 
 
 different nations. We're here to talk about Sunday's attacks is CNN's Natasha Bertrand. She's joining us now live from the Pentagon. Now what do 
 
 we know about these attacks at this point, Natasha?
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Well Becky, it was a very significant series of attacks that occurred in the Southern Red Sea on 
 
 Sunday. And it involved three commercial vessels which were targeted according to Central Command by Houthi militants who launched missiles out 
 
 these vessels including at least one ballistic missile.
 
According to Central Command the USS Carney, which is a destroyer that is stationed in the Red Sea currently it responded to these attacks. And it's 
 
 found that several of these missiles had actually struck some of these commercial vessels resulting in some minor damage, no major injuries 
 
 reported here but clearly a very dangerous moment in the region.
 
And on top of all of this in addition to these missile attacks that were launched at these vessels, the Iran backed Houthi militants they also 
 
 launched several drones in the direction of that U.S. destroyer the USS Carney forcing the destroyer to actually shoot down those drones to avoid 
 
 any further damage or injury.
 
So all of this is coming of course as these Iran backed militant groups they step up their attacks against the U.S. and its allies in response to 
 
 the U.S. support for Israel -- as part of the Israel Hamas war. And the Houthi backed militants they said in a statement on Sunday that they are 
 
 going to continue these attacks in solidarity with the Palestinians.
 
Now the question is how is the U.S. going to deter these attacks in the future? Because while the U.S. has conducted a number of airstrikes in 
 
 Syria and Iraq to try to deter future attacks by these Iran backed groups who have already launched over 70 such strikes on U.S. and coalition forces 
 
 in Syria and Iraq. They have not yet been deterred.
 
And even amid all of the -- you know massive U.S. presence in the region these groups are simply not backing down. So the U.S. now says in a 
 
 statement from Central Command, that they are going to be weighing all appropriate responses but they hold Iran ultimately fully responsible for 
 
 enabling these attacks.
 
And we are told Becky, that the Department of Defense has communicated with the Iranians directly to convey to them that they expect them to rein in 
 
 these proxy groups. But so far of course, that message does not appear to have been received, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Natasha Bertrand is on the story. Natasha, thank you. Let's get you up to speed folks on some of those stories that are on our radar right 
 
 now. And ISIS is claiming responsibility for a deadly bombing in the Southern Philippines which struck a crowded Catholic mass service on 
 
 Sunday. Police say at least four people were killed and dozens more were wounded.
 
A French official says a suspect in Saturday's Paris attack pledged his allegiance to the Islamic State in a video posted to social media. Another 
 
 official told French radio the suspect struggled with mental illness. Police arrested the 26-year-old after one person was killed and two others 
 
 were injured in what was a knife and hammer attack near the Eiffel Tower.
 
At least 11 climbers have died and 12 more are missing after a volcano erupted in Indonesia on Sunday. Officials say Mount Merapi through ash 
 
 thousands of meters into the air covering nearby towns. Eruptions are still happening even as rescuers continue to search for survivors.
 
On the controversial but largely symbolic vote, Venezuelans have overwhelmingly approved a referendum to create a new state of land in 
 
 neighboring Guyana. The Essequibo Region has been in dispute for over a century and is rich in oil and minerals and makes up about two thirds of 
 
 Guyana's national territory. Venezuela has claimed the land since the late 19th century.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
The International Court of Justice ruled on Friday that Venezuela should not take any action that would seek to modify the current borders which are 
 
 internationally accepted. Well, the referendum has been a political rallying cry for the Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro who is casting it 
 
 as a vote against imperialism.
 
Guyana says the threat of annexation is existential that vote raised concerns of a possible military conflict in the region with both sides 
 
 ramping up their defenses and neighboring Brazil, doing the same. Well, as the COP28 Summit continues in Dubai leaders are discussing how climate 
 
 change could impact the world's population. One element to that crisis that you might not have considered is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Well, the climate crisis affects every one that is true. Now and will continue to be true as our planet warms and our environment shifts, 
 
 like so many things, so it is true with an asterisk. The climate crisis affects everyone differently. CNN's latest As Equals Piece explains why 
 
 women may feel its impacts more harshly than men.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): 115 people $202 million that on average is the number of people who have died and the amount of money lost every 
 
 day due to extreme weather events across the globe in the past 50 years. Human caused global warming is reshaping our world. Glaciers are melting, 
 
 sea levels are rising, storms are becoming more ferocious, heat and drought more extreme, and people everywhere are suffering.
 
But who is affected the most? Well, climate experts say your location, wealth, ethnicity and even the level of your education can affect your 
 
 experience with climate change. But did you know your gender also plays a huge role. Here are four examples of how women and girls are the most 
 
 impacted.
 
When a family's crop fails or there's no more fish in the catch tensions increase in the household that can lead to violence. Data from Kenya shows 
 
 that women living in parts of the country that experienced extreme weather events had a 60 percent higher chance of reporting intimate partner 
 
 violence.
 
In another study from India, Pakistan and Nepal, a one degree Celsius rise in temperatures was also connected to an increase in violence against 
 
 women. Women and girls who are forced to leave their homes because of the changing climate are also more at risk of violence.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
MICHELLE BACHELET, UN HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS 2018-2022: While the sleep, wash, bath or a dress in emergency shelters, tents or camps, the 
 
 risk of sexual violence is a tragic reality of their lives as migrants or refugees.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Women wake up almost 40 percent of agricultural workers worldwide. In Sub Saharan Africa, that number goes up 
 
 to 50 percent. Yet on average, less than 13 percent of the world's land owners are women. These matters because land ownership is a source of 
 
 wealth and status and that can be a cushion against climate impacts.
 
On top of that women have been described as incredible stewards of the land whose extensive knowledge can help protect, adapt and build resilience to 
 
 climate change, if only they're given the opportunity. Women spent three times more hours on paid care work than men. That's 4 hours and 25 minutes 
 
 of every day.
 
And climate change fueled extreme weather exacerbates this inequality. According to one study, when exposed to extreme heat women in the U.S. will 
 
 work an extra day per month but in India, it will be 90 more minutes every day and up to 150 extra minute a day in Nigeria. This has a huge knock on 
 
 effect with women and girls having even less time for their educational careers.
 
Lastly, did you know that extreme heat can affect a pregnant woman's ability to regulate her body temperature and that severe exposure to high 
 
 temperatures can increase the risk of stillbirth and early labor? And that's all air pollution the majority of which comes from burning fossil 
 
 fuels has also been linked to stillbirths. A 2022 study estimated that nearly 40 percent of the world's stillbirths could be connected to exposure 
 
 to pollution particles.
 
MARY ROBINSON, FORMER PRESIDENT OF IRELAND UNHCR (1997-2002): Climate change is a manmade problem and requires a feminist solution.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Now women and girls are not just victims of climate change. Indigenous women are at the forefront of environmental 
 
 conservation. Many women farmers have traditional knowledge of sustainable methods. And women and girls have long been leading climate activism.
 
MWANAHAMISI SINGANO, SENIOR GLOBAL POLICY LEAD, WEDO: Can't we trust those who for the longest time have built a sustainable relationship with nature. 
 
 Women should lead and we should have them in a decision making table.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: "World Sport" with Amanda Davies is up after this break. I'll be back with more "Connect the World" at the top of the hour, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[10:00:00]
 
END