Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Ice Storm Turns Deadly in Texas as it Moves Across U.S.; U.S. to Get More Military Base Access in the Philippines; Murdaugh Seen in Son's Snapchat Video Day Family Killed; Legendary NFL Quarterback Tom Brady Announces Retirement. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired February 02, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Bianca Nobilo. And if you are just joining us, me bring you up-to-date with our top stories this hour. 
 
The FBI completed a search of President Biden's vacation home in Rehoboth, Delaware on Wednesday but found no classified documents. The White House reiterated the president is cooperating with the Justice Department's investigation. 
 
And the district attorney investigating the death of Tyre Nichols says up to 20 more hours of video footage from the night of Nichols' brutal police beating has yet to be released. 
 
The northeastern U.S. is preparing for a brutal cold snap to sweep in as a deadly ice storm in the south slowly comes to an end. This video was taken near San Antonio where the ice coating power lines that it's knocking the lines into trees and then causing small fires. According to poweroutage.us, more than 375,000 homes and businesses across the state are without electricity right now. 
 
At least three people have died in Texas from dangerous road conditions as the snow, freezing rain and sleet continue to fall making travel treacherous. But the ice has led to a few surprises. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Crazy thing about this is that this protective net for the trampoline -- so crazy, wow, look at that. Yes, it's broken. The reason it looks a water bed, geez, that is pretty crazy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
NOBILO: Some good Samaritans have been helping those stranded on the icy Texas roads. A group of Jeep owners banded together, literally, to rescue more than a dozen stranded semi-truck drivers. 
 
Meteorologist Derek Van Dam has more on the Storm's impact and where some of the coldest temperatures in decades may be headed. 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, Bianca, what a mess we have across the deep south particularly throughout central Texas. This is a scene coming out of Austin. And this is what we get when a cold dense layer of air, temperatures below freezing, below zero degrees Celsius or 32 Fahrenheit, settles in to the surface of the earth. And then precipitation falls to a warmer column just above it. So it's in the liquid variety but then it freezes with everything on contact closer to where you and I live. 
 
And that causes problems on the roads. It causes problems on the runways at the airports and of course on the electrical poles and on the trees as well. We've had over 400 reports stretching over a dozen states from Texas to the northeast of ice as well as sleet. 
 
Of course this has caused some significant travel concerns and several hundred flights delayed or canceled. Especially out of the Dallas/Ft. Worth region. 
 
Now some of the ice totals here are impressive. We are talking about three quarters of an inch of ice in some locations, including Fischer, Texas, a look at Kingsland. And of course that translates to several people without power. We're talking about 350,000 plus customers. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
And if you think about each household having about three to four people, we could equate to over about a million people in the dark without the ability to potentially heat their homes. Through the course of the day today, that's going to be a concern. We still have ice storm warnings San Angelo to Austin -- or rather to Dallas. Stretching into Little Rock. Some of these starting to expire through the course of the morning hours as we start to get a bump in the temperatures and the precip comes to an end. 
 
This is the third wave in this round of what seems to be a never ending barrage of ice and sleet. We still have a little ways to go, a quarter to half an inch of ice accumulation possible Little Rock into the Dallas/Ft. Worth region, heading south into Austin. So that I-35 corridor is going to be treacherous for hours to come. 
 
Now the other big story across the northeast. We have over 15 million Americans with windchill watches. This is for the weekend. And these are not typos, we're talking about some of the coldest air in the northern hemisphere. The Caribou National Weather Service office talking about an epic generational event with this blast of arctic air that is settling into northern New England. This is going to rival some of the coldest air from 1982 to 1988 as well. So this is significant. 
 
Further south this will be some of the coldest air of the past five years. I'll say places like Boston and New York City. But the potential there for windchill values below -60 degrees, and that means the potential for frostbite on your skin in a matter of minutes. Bianca, back to you. 
 
NOBILO: Thanks Derek.
 
Los Angeles city officials are trying to figure out why electrical power was lost for nearly an hour on Wednesday at LAX International Airport. The outage brought busy terminals to a standstill and temporarily halted passenger screenings. Air traffic control reportedly was not affected by the blackout but there were some apparent disruptions to departing flights. 
 
The White House wants do away with the extra fees that airlines can charge families for sitting together on flights. It can amount to as much as $200 in extra charges on some carriers. And the Transportation Department has already urged airlines to allow children younger than 13 to sit next to an adult family member for no additional costs. 
 
But the White House is now calling on lawmakers to fast-track those efforts as part of its Junk Fee Protection Act. The proposed bill also targets all other kinds of charges that the White House says are unnecessarily draining money from consumers. Among them hidden fees slapped on entertainment tickets bought online and credit card late fees which officials hope to slash from an average of $31 to $8. President Biden said that the bill would give breathing room to American families especially those that are already struggling to pay their bills. 
 
And the U.S. will get access to four more military bases in the Philippines. Part of an effort to increase cooperation between the two countries. The announcement came as the U.S. defense chief visited Manila where he met with the country's president and foreign secretary. 
 
CNN's Paula Hancocks joins us now from Seoul. Paula, this is very significant. Talk to us about the strategic advantage here for the U.S. and the potential ramifications for expansion into a region that is so volatile near Taiwan in the South China Sea. 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bianca, what it does is it does give significant footing to the U.S. military forces in the southeast corner of the South China Sea. So it is strategic for the United States. Now it is part of an existing agreement, it is really an expansion of that. Back in 2014, there was a deal the EDCA, the Enhanced Defense Corporation Agreement, which signed. 
 
Which effectively allowed U.S. troops to rotate in and out of certain bases in the Philippines. There were five originally that were decided upon, it also allowed the U.S. to build infrastructure which both countries and militaries could then use. So they have added four more bases to that. And what we have heard from the U.S. Secretary of State Lloyd Austin today, was he said it's part of the effort to strengthen the alliance and it's necessary because China continues to advance its illegitimate claims in the South China Sea. 
 
So what we don't know at this point -- and this is crucial -- is exactly which bases that they're talking about when they're specify these four. If it is for example in the northern area, in Luzon, then that is just 200 miles or 320 kilometers south of Taiwan. That gives a huge strategic benefit to U.S. military troops. 
 
Now they have said that it is to allow more rapid support for humanitarian and climate-related disasters in the Philippines, but they've also specified it's to respond to other shared challenges. 
 
Now Beijing was likely to be angered. They have been. We've had a comment from the ministry of foreign affairs spokesperson saying it has escalated tension in the region an endangers regional peace and stability. Saying that what the U.S. has done shows it has a selfish agenda -- Bianca. 
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
NOBILO: Paula Hancocks live in Seoul, thank you so much. 
 
A key video that could undercut Alex Murdaugh's alibi at the time that his wife and son were killed was played in court Wednesday. We'll have the details from the trial coming up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
NOBILO: Welcome back. A judge has tightened bail conditions for crypto entrepreneur Sam Bankman-Fried due to concerns of possible witness tampering. That's after prosecutors found out that the FTX founder had texted the trading platform's former general counsel saying that he'd, quote, love to reconnect and see if there's any way, they can have a constructive relationship. The judge says that he's not allowed to contact any current or former employees of FTX without attorneys present or communicate over encrypted messaging apps until a hearing next week. Bankman-Fried has pleaded not guilty to fraud and conspiracy charges. 
 
And for the first time jurors in the Alex Murdaugh murder trial got to see a Snapchat video that his son Paul posted shortly before his death. Murdaugh, a disgraced former lawyer, is standing trial in the killing of his wife and son back in June 2021. He has pleaded not guilty to the murder charges. CNN's Randi Kaye has more on this crucial piece of evidence. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is the video prosecutors believe puts Alex Murdaugh at the murder scene around the time his wife and son were killed. A computer crimes expert testifying for the state, said he extracted this video from Paul Murdaugh's phone several months after his death. The video shows a dog, but it is not what the jury sees on the video that is critical to the state's case, it is what they hear on it. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What do you hear on the video?
 
LT. BRITT DOVE, SOUTH CAROLINA LAW ENFORCEMENT DIVISION: You hear three different voices in the video. You can tell because they are so different. You can tell that they are different voices. 
 
KAYE (voice-over): Listen closely. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: At this time the state is going to publish that video. It is not under seal.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hey, he's got a bird in his mouth.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) Bubba. Hey, now Bubba.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's a guinea.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a chicken.
 
KAYE (voice-over): The time that the video was taken is key to the prosecutor's case. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What team time was that video recorded again Lt. Dove? 
 
DOVE: The camera begins at 8:44-49 p.m. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And ends when?
 
DOVE: At 8:45:4-47 p.m. 
 
KAYE (voice-over): The witness told the jury the video was taken about 8:45 p.m. on June 7, 2021, the night of the murders. Alex Murdaugh had told investigators at least twice that he wasn't at the kennels earlier in the night. His 911 call that night puts him at the scene around 10:07 p.m. But the audio in this video -- if it is him as prosecutors suggest -- would undercut his alibi and put Alex Murdaugh with the victims at the time of the murders, at the time their cellphones ceased all activity and locked. That was about 8:49 p.m.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Were there ever any other outgoing calls made from Paul's phone? 
 
DOVE: No, sir, not that I found. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Were there ever any other calls that were answered, incoming calls that were answered on Paul's phone? 
 
DOVE: No, sir. 
 
KAYE (voice-over): Alex Murdaugh was not identified by prosecutors on the video, but this witness testified, Rogan Gibson testified that Paul was sending the video in question to him that night, so Gibson could see his injured dog. He told the court he is sure that is Alex Murdaugh's voice on the recording. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And did you hear and recognize the voices on there? 
 
ROGAN GIBSON, PAUL MURDAUGH'S FRIEND: I did. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did you recognize the voices of your second family? 
 
GIBSON: I did. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And what voices did you hear?
 
GIBSON: Paul's, Ms. Maggie and Mr. Alex.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And how sure are you now? 
 
GIBSON: Positive. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: 100 percent? 
 
GIBSON: That's correct. 
 
KAYE (voice-over): On cross-examination the defense tried to chip away at Gibson's testimony about the tape, but it seemed to backfire. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They heard a voice say no, it is a chicken. Do you remember whose voice that was? 
 
GIBSON: That was Mr. Alex that set it the first time and then Paul also said it was a chicken. 
 
KAYE (voice-over): And it got worse for the defense when Paul's longtime friend and roommate Will Loving, said he heard Alex on the recording too. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How sure are you? 
 
WILL LOVING, WITNESS: 100 percent. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The person whose voice you recognize on there that you identify as Alex Murdaugh, do you see him in the courtroom here today? 
 
LOVING: Yes, sir. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You can you point him out for the jury? 
 
LOVING: He's sitting right there. 
 
KAYE: Randi Kaye, CNN, Walterboro, South Carolina. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: Still ahead, one of the best to ever play the game is hanging up his helmet for good this time. Tom brady is retiring from the NFL again. We'll have reactions to his announcement.
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration says a nationwide recall of a certain Banana Boat sunscreen has expanded. The recall now includes four batches of Banana Boat hair and scalp sunscreens SPF 30. A review found unexpected levels of benzene a known carcinogen that came from the propellant in the can. The FDA says that consumers should look for certain lot numbers on the bottom of the product and then stop using them. One of America's most popular TV doctors is moving on from daytime
 
 television. Dr. Phil will end its run after more than 20 years on air with host and former psychologist Doctor Phil McGraw saying that there is more, he wishes to do. McGraw began his TV career on the Oprah Winfrey Show in the late 1990s. CVS media ventures says that he will be focusing on primetime programming in the immediate future. 
 
The most celebrated quarterback of all-time, Tom Brady announced his retirement on Wednesday. The second time he's done so in as many years. But this time he says it is for good. He shared his decision on Wednesday saying his career has been quite the ride. 
 
His former team, the New England Patriots, replied quite the ride indeed. And the Tampa Bay Buccaneers tweeted the hashtag thank you Tom. CNN's Andy Scholes takes a look at Brady's of record-breaking career. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): After a legendary 23-year career, Tom Brady announcing on Wednesday that he is retiring again. This time for good.
 
TOM BRADY, RETIRING TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS QUARTERBACK: You only get one super emotional retirement essay and I used mine up last year. So really, thank you guys so much to every single one of you for supporting me. My family, my friends, teammates, my competitors.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over): The sudden announcement coming just hours after Brady walked the red carpet for his movie "80 for Brady".
 
BRADY: Let's go.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh my God, that's Tom Brady.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over): There will never be another athlete like Tom Brady. Drafted 199th overall by the Patriots in 2000. Brady was a true underdog, only about 30 percent of six round picks make NFL rosters. Brady went on to win seven Super Bowls. That is more than any other team in NFL history. 
 
What fans will always remember are the comebacks, most notably being down 28 to 3 to the Falcons in Super Bowl LI, before orchestrating one of the greatest comebacks in sports history.
 
No matter the game, no matter the score, Brady proved it's never over when he was on the field.
 
BRADY: When you're losing late in the game, I mean what's the worst thing that can happen? You're already losing. So I always look at it as, you know, a great opportunity. Then I think, man, if we can come back and win this, this is what -- this is what people are going to remember.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over): They say no one can defeat Father Time, well Tom Brady came the closest. Brady won three Super Bowls in his 20s, two in his 30s, and two more in his 40s.
 
Brady retired and then unretired before the 2022 season saying he still had the desire to play. But the past year was a rough one for Brady, on and off the season.
 
BRADY: I'm 45 years old, man. There's like a lot (BLEEP) going on.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over): Brady and his supermodel wife, Gisele Bundchen announced their divorce after 13 years of marriage mid-season. And Brady had a losing record for the first time ever.
 
Gisele reacting to Brady's retirement saying, wishing you only wonderful things in this new chapter of your life.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
At age 45, Brady leaves the game with numerous records including most passing yards and touchdowns. For 23 years he gave sports fans so many amazing moments. That's why, when people discuss the best athletes ever, for many Tom Brady is at the top of the list.
 
BRADY: Thank you guys for allowing me to that need to live my absolute dream. I wouldn't change a thing. I love you all.
 
SCHOLES (voice-over): Thank you Tom Brady, sincerely -- football fans everywhere.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: A rare Kobe Bryant jersey from the late NBA star's sole MVP season is going up for auction. Sotheby's says that the jersey is valued between $5 million and $7 million and is the only one Bryant wore during the 2008 playoffs where he led the Los Angeles Lakers to the finals for the first time since Shaquille O'Neal was traded. 
 
One of music biggest artists is hitting the road for the first time in years. That's right, Beyonce made the surprise announcement that she will embark on a "Renaissance" tour later this year in support of her latest album. Her last tour was five years ago with husband and rapper Jay-Z. The 41 show tour is set to kick off its European leg in May and continue on to North America after that. Ticketmaster says that it's using verified fan technology to ensure that more tickets get into the hands of concertgoers. Go to Ticketmaster's website for an explanation of how that is supposed to work. 
 
That does it here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Bianca Nobilo in London. "EARLY START" with Christine Romans is up next. I'll see you tomorrow.
 <br>[05:00:00]