Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Heat Wave Intensifies in U.S., Millions Under Heat Alerts; Prime Minister Fitted With Heart Monitor; Police Recapture Michael Burham After 9 Days on the Run; Scrap of Pizza Crust Leads to Multiple Murder Arrest; Ukraine Reports New Strikes on Kharkiv, Zaporizhzhia; FDA Approves Over-the-Counter Birth Control Pill. Aired 5-6a ET

Aired July 16, 2023 - 05:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:00:29]
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber, ahead on CNN Newsroom.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I've never experienced this kind of heat. It's really, really hot.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Smoldering heat takes over the U.S. as temperatures could hit 130 degrees in some places this weekend. CNN has reporters all across this developing story. 
 
Plus.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LT. COL. GEORGE BIVENS, PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE: We ended this without anyone else getting hurt. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Pennsylvania fugitive murder suspect Michael Burham has been caught. We'll look at what tipped off the police to his arrest. And a major decision from the FDA this week that will impact millions of women and girls in the U.S.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN Newsroom with Kim Brunhuber.
 
BRUNHUBER: More than 80 million people remain under heat alerts as the week's long heatwave continues and intensifies here in the U.S. Dangerously high temperatures will continue across the western part of the country throughout the weekend with temperatures getting hotter in the south early next week. The Weather Prediction Center says daytime highs will range between 10 to 20 degrees above normal in central and southern California and reach up to 120 degrees Fahrenheit in parts of California, Arizona and southern Nevada. Take a listen to what people in Las Vegas are saying about the heat.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROBYN SCHOPLER, TOURIST: I think it's going to be a hot one. But we can do it. We're here in Vegas having a good time.
 
TROY WEAVER, LAS VEGAS RESIDENT: We're out here, trying to beat the heat but it's par for the course, is -- the heat here brings different places. Time zones and the weather patterns have changed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: More than 100 temperature records are possible through Tuesday across the west and south. Death Valley California could top 130 degrees today. That's what happened just five times in more than 110 years of record keeping and right now, 2 a.m. in Phoenix, it's 100 degrees.
 
In Southern California and the Riverside County, Fire Department is battling three wildfires that started Friday. Officials say the Rabbit Fire grew from 20 to 4500 acres and was only 5% contained on Saturday. CNN has reporters all across this story. Mike Valerio is in Valencia, California examining how people plan to beat the heat across the Southwest. Hadas Gold joins us live from Jerusalem with a look at Israeli Prime Minister's hospitalization with suspected dehydration due to the heat. 
 
And later in the show, Barbie Nadeau is live in Rome with a look at how Europe is handling their own heatwave. But first, Rafael Romo is in Las Vegas with a look at the temperatures across the U.S.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: People here in Las Vegas are going to have to wait a few more days for a respite. The National Weather Service has issued an excessive heat warning for the city expected to last until Tuesday evening. And meteorologists here are taking a close look at the climbing temperatures because there's a possibility that the city's official all-time record of 117 degrees could be tied sometime between Sunday and Monday. 
 
A good portion of the country is experiencing extreme heat. More than 85 million people are on their heat alerts from the National Weather Service in at least 15 states from Florida to California. Phoenix has topped 110 degrees for 14 consecutive days and is forecast to make that at least 19 by Tuesday, which will be the longest stretch in that city's history. 
 
Earlier I spoke with a tourist from Canada visiting Las Vegas with her daughter who told us she had found the right combination of indoor and outdoor recreation to stay safe and this oppressive heat.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Went to all the shops in and out just walk outside for a bit, get too hot. Go and cool down and repeat.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It sounds like a great plan.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think, it was a spur of the moment trip and just let's go and she was monitoring the temperature on her phone. She's like, mom, it's going to be hot.
 
ROMO: Miami has seen a record 34 straight days where the heat index has climbed above 100 degrees with the last 12 topping 105 degrees which is doubled the previous record of six. Pauls Valley in Oklahoma saw its heat index climbed to 126 degrees on Thursday, the highest in 30 years. 
 
Officials for the city of Las Vegas are reminding residents and this applies to people in other states too, that you should never leave pets or people in had cars even for just a few minutes because the temperature inside can increase to dangerous levels very quickly. Rafael Romo, CNN Las Vegas.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[05:05:10]
 
BRUNHUBER: The blistering heat wave across southern Europe is intensifying amid the busy summer tourist season. Italy now has 16 cities under a severe Red Alert Health Advisory, the highest level. 
 
In Greece, some people flocked to the beach, maybe hoping for a break from the oppressive heat. On Saturday official shut the famed Acropolis in Athens for a second straight day because of the heat. In Istanbul people tried to cool off as the heatwave hit Turkey. And authorities in Spain say the heat is affecting the country's typically cooler North not just areas in the South. 
 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been fitted with a heart monitor under his skin after being admitted to a hospital on Saturday for what's being diagnosed as dehydration. Now, that word came to us a short time ago from the Sheba Medical Center near Tel Aviv. 
 
Doctors suspected the Prime Minister had become dehydrated on a trip to the beach on Friday admitted to him on Saturday for tests. He was kept for observation overnight and is expected to be released today. CNN's Hadas Gold joins us live this hour from Jerusalem. So Hadas, what more are you hearing about Netanyahu's condition?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: So just in the past half hour -- hour or so is when we received word potentially about why the Prime Minister had been kept overnight and into this morning, actually, he is still as far as we know in the hospital has not been discharged yet. And that's because after running a few tests they do -- doctors there do believe that his hospitalization reason was for dehydration. Because we did hear from his office that he spent Friday at the Sea of Galilee which is under -- which has been under a heat advisory. There's a heatwave across this region. It's been incredibly hot. They say that on Saturday, though, he began to experience dizziness and went to the emergency room at the Sheba Medical Center which is in a suburb just east of Tel Aviv. 
 
And there they were running tests on him, they kept him overnight. They've -- he's still there right now. They've been running tests on him. They say all of the tests have turned out to be normal. However, we did just receive the statement from the head of the cardiology unit at Sheba Medical Center, saying that although they found no arrhythmia or anything like that, in his heart, and with all his heart tests are normal, they did decide to implant him with a heart monitor. I read that statement, they say, "In order to continue routine monitoring, we decided to use a subcutaneous Holter as is customary, to allow the close medical professional team of the Prime Minister to continue regular monitoring."
 
Now, what this is, as it's been described to us by the hospital spokesperson, this is a small about inch, inch and a half long, kind of looks like a -- a -- a tube of some kind that is placed just under the skin just over the heart to be able to provide continuous monitoring for an extended period of time of the heart. But as we are hearing from the Prime Minister's Office, and now from the hospital that the reason for hospitalization was dehydration, but in the course of the monitoring, in the course of the test, they did decide to insert this hot heart monitor.
 
Now, Benjamin Netanyahu has no, no major health issues. He is 73 years old, though. This is not the first time he's been admitted to hospital for not feeling well. And now we have these really. Prime Minister now will have a continuous heart monitor under his skin at all times. Kim?
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, thanks so much for that, Hadas Gold in Jerusalem. 
 
I want to turn now to a story we're following this hour. A major earthquake has struck southern Alaska. The United States Geological Survey is reporting that a 7.2 magnitude quake struck not long ago, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration initially said a tsunami advisory was declared for southern Alaska and the Alaskan peninsula but it has just been canceled. Now, so far, we haven't really received reports of injuries or damage. 
 
Georgia police are asking for the public's help finding the suspect in a deadly quadruple shooting. Authorities believed 40-year-old Andre Longmore shot and killed three men and a woman early Saturday morning. They warn that he should be considered armed and dangerous. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHERIFF REGINALD SCANDRETT, HENRY COUNTY SHERIFF DEPARTMENT: This is an all-hands-on deck movement to make sure that we place Mr. Andre Longmore in custody. The Henry County Sheriff's Office is also offering a $10,000 reward for any information leading to the arrest and apprehension and prosecution of Mr. Longmore. If you see Mr. Longmore, please call 911. Do not approach him because he is known to be armed and dangerous.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) BRUNHUBER: The shootings took place in a neighborhood in Hampton, Georgia, city about 30 miles south of Atlanta. Authorities believe Longmore is driving a vehicle that isn't his own, a 2017 black GMC Acadia with license plates DHF 756. 
 
Police in Pennsylvania have recaptured an escaped inmate, a man with survivalist skills, who they warned was dangerous. The prisoner, Michael Burham, didn't get very far. He was found in Pennsylvania in the very city same city, the prison he escaped from. Polo Sandoval brings us the details.
 <br>[05:10:05]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: After about nine days on the run and parts of rural Pennsylvania, the search is now over after an inmate was recaptured by authorities on Saturday afternoon. The man's name Michael Burham. He was recaptured without incidents in a wooded area in Warren County, Pennsylvania. The 34-year-old former reservists and survivalists was also a prime suspect in a New York homicide case, as well as the related arson case in Western New York. 
 
It was back on July 6, that Burham reportedly used a rope fashion from bedding to escape out of a window of recreation room at the facility that he was being held in, in northern -- northwestern Pennsylvania. During the search for the last few days, a search that was conducted by hundreds of states, local federal officers, they were able to even locate some camp sites and various stockpiles that they believe were directly linked to Burham. 
 
However then, Saturday came, I want you to hear directly from Lieutenant Colonel George Bivens, describing how a private citizen, master con a tip that led to the arrest of this runaway inmate.
 
LT. COL. GEORGE BIVENS, PENNSYLVANIA STATE POLICE: He was being pursued by the officers along with canines. New York State Police had a bloodhound and Customs and Border Patrol had a search and patrol dog immediately behind the bloodhound. And so yes, he was being tracked and pushed by a line of practical members.
 
SANDOVAL: We can also see this incredible image obtained by CNN. You can see those moments immediately following the rearrest of Michael Burham. Official saying that he was dirty, wet, tired and also wearing his prison pants that had been turned inside out. However, officials have not been able to say anything about the conversations that were held with the inmate there on the ground. There's still a lot to be determined including where he will eventually be housed with correctional facility or at least the name of it, and also what kind of additional charges he may face. Polo Sandoval, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: More than a decade after a string of killings terrorized a Long Island community, it was a scrap of pizza crust that finally led police on Friday to make an arrest. 59-year-old New York architect Rex Heuermann is now facing charges. He murdered three women in 2009, in 2010. And investigators say Heuermann is the prime suspect in a fourth killing. He has pleaded not guilty. 
 
The so-called Gilgo Beach murders confounded authorities for years. They've begun focusing on Heuermann in early 2022. And they say that he matched his DNA on a discarded pizza cross to a hair on burlap one victim was wrapped in. The county district attorney says it was vital to keep much of the investigation quiet. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAYMOND TIERNEY, SUFFOLK COUNTY NEW YORK DISTRICT ATTORNEY: And then, you also have to worry about leaks, because we've executed a lot of search warrants. We're just beginning to comb through that evidence and we hope that we're going to get more evidence. And obviously if the nature of your investigation or how close you are leaks to that one person, all of that evidence disappears. So it's -- it's a balancing act.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Heuermann is next due on court August 1. 
 
Ukraine says Russian missiles and artillery have pummeled two major cities but Ukraine reportedly tried to strike back at the heart of Russia's Black Sea Fleet. We'll the details. 
 
Plus, representatives from Sudan's army have reportedly gone to Saudi Arabia for peace talks with rebel fighters but there's no official word those talks are supposed to happen. We have a live report, next. Please stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:17:46]
 
BRUNHUBER: Ukraine is reporting a barrage of Russian strikes on two major cities. It says Russian missiles hit downtown Kharkiv in early hours of Sunday while Zaporizhzhia was hit more than 50 times in the past 24 hours, leaving at least seven people injured. 
 
Russian appointed officials claimed Ukraine tried to hit back launching what they call a massive drone attack on Crimea. Nada Bashir is monitoring developments and joins us from London. So, Nada, what more can you tell us about the latest strikes?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Look, we've heard from Ukrainian officials in the past few days warning that, that bombardment of Ukraine's eastern region in particular of the Kharkiv region has intensified over the last month. And that was certainly what we saw last night at least four missiles, according to Ukrainian officials, launch from the Belgorod region to exploiting the air and to hitting the ground across the Kharkiv region, causing some infrastructural damage there. 
 
And, of course, we also saw shelling continuing overnight, at least one person killed as a result. And as you mentioned that we saw that consistent attack towards the Zaporizhzhia region. We saw attacks and strikes on the Zaporizhzhia region just overnight Friday into Saturday. That was repeated again. According to Ukrainian military officials, at least 52 strikes over just 24 hours. And at least seven people wounded in that attack. 
 
This is of course, a significant concern as Ukraine continues with its counter offense. We have of course learn from Russian appointed officials in the Crimea region, what they described as a massive and prolonged drone attack, which they say they were able to deal with. However, of course, this is a huge concern. We've heard from Ukrainian officials acknowledging what we have heard from Western and NATO officials over the past few weeks that the counter offensive is not moving as quickly as they had anticipated or hope. But the gains they're making are not as substantial as Ukraine would have hoped. And there is that repeated call for further military support from NATO allies. 
 
And we saw President Zelenskyy speaking alongside his NATO allies in Vilnius during the NATO Summit, reiterating that call for further support, but also crucially for more concrete commitments when it comes to Ukraine's potential accession to the NATO alliance. And this is certainly underscored that fact. President Zelenskyy and his military officials continue to be confident in their efforts over the course of this counter offensive. But of course, these consistent attacks, the bombardment of eastern Ukraine is only intensifying. And there is that real push by Ukraine for further support from their allies.
 <br>[05:20:20]
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Thanks so much, Nada Bashir in London. 
 
In Sudan, after three months of bitter fighting and allegations of horrific war crimes, representatives of the Sudanese army have reportedly returned to Saudi Arabia to resume peace talks with rebel forces but there's no indication those talks have actually restarted.
 
And there's no sign of lap in the fighting. The capital Khartoum has been besieged for months by shelling and shooting between the Rapid Support Forces militia and government troops. Intense fighting has also been reported in the West Darfur on the border with Chad. CNN's Stephanie Busari joins us live from Lagos, Nigeria. 
 
So Stephanie, even though expectations for any negotiations are pretty low, considering what's gone on before. There's so much at stake in terms of the need for a ceasefire and the ability to establish humanitarian corridors for refugees and for aid?
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR, AFRICA: Absolutely, Kim. This war is entering its fourth month. And there's still so much uncertainty about when the Sudanese army and the Rapid Support Forces will lay down their weapons to come to the table and talk and end the misery for the Sudanese people. 
 
The latest we're hearing is that Sudanese representatives have arrived in Saudi Arabia to hold talks with the Rapid Support Forces. But expectations are low, as you say, as so many ceasefire violations have happened. The U.S. and Saudi Arabia have previously mediated this talks but they were suspended last month because the both sides agreed to ceasefire by ending to ceasefire. But in the same breath, they violate them. And then they blame each other, leading to this kind of frustrating, merry-go-round. 
 
Now, you know, fighting continues. Four people have died. We're hearing after drones hit a medical center in the city of Omdurman. And the U.N. is warning that the situation is desperate. U.N. Humanitarian Chief Martin Griffiths have said that the people of Sudan need to be allowed. There needs to be a humanitarian corridors opened. He said they cannot replenish stores of food, water medicine if brazen looting of these stocks continue. And we cannot deliver if our staff are prevented from reaching people in need. 
 
The real victims here are the Sudanese people who are stuck in homes fighting around them. There's been no respite for nearly four months since this war began in mid-April. And there's real danger that history maybe repeating itself in West Darfur. We heard last week of 87 bodies found in a mass grave, in the city. And ethnic, which has some kind of ethnic tensions, because most of the people that were found were from the Masalit tribe, who are non-Arabs. 
 
And the U.N. is worried that real crimes or crimes against humanity are happening in West Darfur. And as you know, the ICC has started a probe into these crimes going on there, Kim.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, thanks so much. Stephanie Busari, live from Lagos. 
 
Still to come, millions across the U.S. are under heat alerts this weekend, and it's only set to get more intense in the coming days. 
 
Plus, heat waves are not only scorching the U.S. People in southern Europe are also sweltering. Coming up, we'll go live to Rome. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:27:24]
 
BRUNHUBER: And welcome back, to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world, I'm Kim Brunhuber. This is CNN Newsroom. 
 
I want to get back to one of our top stories this hour. More than 80 million people are under heat alerts right now as the week's long heatwave continues and intensifies in the southwestern United States. Dangerously high temperatures will continue to plague Western states throughout the weekend, with temperatures getting hotter in the south early next week. 
 
More than 100 temperature records are possible through Tuesday across the western South and Death Valley California could top 130 degrees today and that's only happened five times in more than 110 years of record keeping. In southern Europe, Italy now has 16 cities under a severe red alert health advisory, the highest level they have. And of course it comes in the heart of the busy summer tourist season. CNN's Mike Valerio has more from Valencia in California.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, right now we're about 30 miles from the beach here in Southern California. And if you can't make your way to the coastline, this certainly is a good alternative. To my right we have tons of tubing, a profusion of parents and families. This is Hurricane Harbor at Six Flags Magic Mountain in the Santa Clarita Valley. 
 
And of course Six Flags told us on a day like today when we're expecting temperatures exceeding triple digits, they have to prepare lifeguards as you see in our background right here about two dozen of them. A dozen first responders spread between the theme park and the waterpark that you see in our backdrop right here. Listen to what Six Flags told us about their preparations for an intense weekend like we're experiencing right now.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We do have a sheriff's station on site for different emergencies and things like that that take place. But our staff is overly prepared to make sure that everyone is staying cool. So we have our medical training staff like I said on site. We do have an ambulance. We do have very great relationships with local fire department, EMTs that can come in and we can call them at any given notice and they do come on site to help us if there's anything that is more drastic.
 
VALERIO: Now, at the start of the weekend about 90 miles away from here in Riverside County in Southern California, not one but three wildfires sparked on Friday as we moved into Saturday. Thankfully, firefighters reported that they started to get a good handle on controlling and containing those wildfires not affecting too many population centers or threatening to many homes but of course, this is the start of summer drier temperatures. We are going to be monitoring for a potential fire danger as we get deeper into July and of course deeper into this heatwave. Mike Valerio, CNN, Valencia, California.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[05:30:06]
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, let's check in now with CNN's Barbie Nadeau live in Rome. So Barbie, it seems like Europe's heatwave isn't going away anytime soon?
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: No, that's absolutely right. And they just seem to keep upping the predictions. And the -- you know, tomorrow we're expecting it to be up to 41 in Rome, on Tuesday 43 in Rome. That's coming from the, you know, National Weather Service here. That would really break records. 
 
And it's not just in Rome, though, you know, it's all-over southern Europe. And it's also in northern Italy. We took a closer look starting in Venice. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADEAU: It's not easy work guiding tourists to the stifling canals of Venice during a heatwave. Italian meteorologists cheekily naming a new round of heat beginning Sunday after the ferryman of the dead in Greek mythology, who carries souls to the underworld. 
 
This gondolier says his boat can at times feel like an inferno and says he has to be careful not to burn himself on the gondola. It's a sign of just how hot it is in Italy. And officials warn it could get worse, much worse. 
 
Meteorologists in Italy are telling people to prepare for what could be the most intense heatwave of the summer, if not of all time in the country. Forecasters say Rome could top 40 degrees Celsius and possibly break its all-time high temperature. And Sicily is predicted to hover near Europe's current heat record of 48.8 degrees. But it's not just Italy, much of southern Europe and the Balkans are also broiling. In Cyprus, some residents complained it was too hot to move, unless to get a drink of water or find a place in the shade.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The temperature is 46. Oh my god. And it is very terrible now, because you can't stand outside.
 
NADEAU: The hot dry weather, also creating prime conditions for wildfires. The sizzling temperatures in Spain's Canary Islands, making it harder for firefighters to battle back the flames there. 
 
Wildfires, also burning in Croatia, which spread rapidly because of the searing heat and windy weather. European health officials are advising people to stay out of the sun, and to look after the elderly and the vulnerable. Volunteers were on hand in Greece to hand out water bottles to tourists, as officials once again changed the operating hours of the Acropolis to avoid people visiting during the hottest part of the day. But some tourists say even that wasn't enough. 
 
CARMEN BISHOP, TOURIST: It was suffocating. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yeah.
 
BISHOP: I mean, we are from Washington, D.C. and we get a lot of heat there. But it's not like this. It's -- like you can't find relief. Let me put it that way. 
 
NADEAU: The zoo in Rome, offering frozen treats to cool down the animals. Though some prefer to dip in the water. The next few days could boil down to finding ways to cope with heat, which could get more difficult if temperatures across Europe go farther into the red than they've ever gone before. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADEAU: And, you know, Kim, when you listen to those temperatures that are coming in, you look at those fires, you know, this is about more at the end of the day than the tourists This is really, really dangerous for so many people who live in the Mediterranean area in southern Europe, you know, even the water temperatures are high if you're trying to get relief at the beach or something like that. It's just really, really, really dangerous. And, you know, the bottom line is authorities know that and they want everybody to try to keep, keep cool, keep hydrated, take cover in the hot part of the day and try to protect themselves. Kim? 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, good advice. All right, thanks so much Barbie Nadeau in Rome. 
 
A massive search and rescue operation is underway right now in South Korea. Emergency teams are trying to drain this underpass in the central part of the country. It flooded after torrential rains overflowed and burst the levee of a nearby river trapping several cars and a public bus inside. So far, the bodies of seven people have been recovered. Overall in South Korea, at least 33 people have died from flash floods and landslides. 
 
Marc Stewart joins me now from Tokyo. So Marc, what is the latest on that search for survivors from the flooding in South Korea?
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Kim, this is a search now that has been going on for a good 12 hours. And despite optimism, the reality is that the effort the -- the success and finding survivors just may not come to fruition. This is a very difficult search and unfortunately as time goes by the chances, unfortunately, dwindle. But this has been an intense effort, a Herculean effort, as many as 400 workers and rescuers have been on the scene. At least 65 pieces of equipment have been in -- have been involved in all of this. 
 
And as you mentioned earlier, the difficulty is that this underpass, this tunnel flooded because of this levee break and then time really started on Saturday night to try to -- you know, to try to -- for lack of better words, map it up to drain all of this water. And that has added time and unfortunately time is very critical in this situation. 
 <br>[05:35:21]
 
Fifteen vehicles at least have been trapped under there including a bus. Among those who have been killed is a woman in her 70s. The flooding that we are seeing here, which is about 60 miles or 100 kilometers south of Seoul is just one of many examples of flooding that we have seen in South Korea over the last few days. Heavy rain really began first falling on Thursday and it just continued throughout the weekend. Homes have been flooded. Farms have been flooded. There have also been evacuation. So this is not just isolated to this particular scene, although this is, you know, unfortunately, one of the more intense. One of the more deadly places where this has occurred. 
 
And this is in falling in line very much in a narrative that we have seen around the world. We have seen reports, you know, this last hour from California we saw -- we saw Barbie Nadeau in Rome. And now here in Asia, here in Japan where I live. We have seen a landslide. We have seen flooding and unfortunately we have seen deaths. And Kim just today here in Tokyo another day of extremely high temperatures.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, all right, thanks so much, Marc Stewart in Tokyo. 
 
All right still much more to come here on CNN Newsroom including my talk with an expert about the nonprescription birth control that will soon be available here in the United States. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: This week the Food and Drug Administration approved the first birth control pill for sale over the counter without a prescription in the U.S. It's called Opill and it could be available at pharmacies in just a matter of months. CNN Medical Correspondent Meg Tirrell has the details.
 <br>[05:40:14]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the FDA says that almost half of the more than 6 million pregnancies in the U.S. every year are unintended. And so the agency and many experts in this space hope that making birth control more accessible in this way, can contribute to fewer unintended pregnancies. 
 
Now, the Opill is the same version of a daily contraceptive pill that's one that's been on the market since 1973. Although the maker stopped marketing it in recent years due to business considerations. But this one now is the same one that was approved, only now it doesn't require a prescription. It's a progestin only pill, also sometimes called the minipill, so it just includes a one hormone. It's been found to be 98% effective when used perfectly, you lose a few percentage points of that efficacy if you don't use it perfectly, i.e. not exactly at the same time every day, but still more than 90% effective. 
 
There's no age restriction on the FDA approval here. And experts tell me that's very important because it's often younger people that have trouble getting prescriptions for contraception, and so having no age restriction, could enable more people who really could benefit from this to be able to get it. 
 
The one group for whom it's contraindicated, it's not recommended to be used as people who have breast cancer or who are who have had breast cancer because this is a hormone and that can affect breast cancer risk. 
 
And one really important unanswered question right now is the price. The company has not yet announced what it will cost. It is expected to hit the market at the beginning of 2024. The company Perrigo does say, "they're committed to ensuring that Opill is affordable and accessible to people who need it." 
 
Now, doctors I've spoken with, say they hope that this will be priced in an accessible way. And they point out, you know, Walmart has an option available for a prescription contraceptive that costs about $9 a month cash pay. And so they hope that perhaps this will be in the same ballpark. But we just don't know yet. You know, Perrigo has also said, it is going to seek insurance coverage for this product. But, you know, experts say this has been a 30-year quest to making contraception available over the counter. And they really hope this can make a dent in the number of unintended pregnancies in the U.S. every year.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: And joining me now is Dr. Daniel Grossman, a Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of California in San Francisco. Thanks so much for being here with me, Doctor. So we just heard there about the impact this might have. I mean, for you, how big of a deal is this?
 
DR. DANIEL GROSSMAN, PROF. OF OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA: First of all, thanks so much for the invitation. Honestly, it's a huge deal. You know, as -- as was said, this has been decades in the making. It's really long overdue. These medications are so safe and effective. It's -- it really just makes total sense for them to be available over the counter. We know that requiring people to get a prescription can put a medically unnecessary obstacle in their way of getting effective birth control. It's hard for people to start birth control. It's hard when they run out of birth control. It's hard to get resupplied. So this is really -- it's a huge deal.
 
BRUNHUBER: Now, the manufacturer says they'll make the pill accessible, and affordable to women of all ages. But a recent survey found that 10% of women wouldn't be able -- or wouldn't be willing to pay any out-of-pocket costs for this type of contraception. So -- so cost is obviously a huge issue here?
 
GROSSMAN: Yeah, it really is. In fact, I've done research, also looking at this and found that, on average, people who are interested in using this kind of over-the-counter birth control, for adults, the most that they're willing to pay is about $15 per month. And for teens who are interested the most is about $10 per month. And once the cost goes, you know, up much beyond that, interest really falls off. 
 
So it's going to be important that Perrigo makes us available at an accessible cost. I understand that they're planning to make it -- also they're going to have a consumer assistance program for low-income people. So they'll be able to access at no cost. But really the key piece of this is also going to be insurance coverage. There are about eight states now including California that require insurance companies to cover over the counter contraceptives. And I'm hoping that that's going to just, you know, grow as -- as this gets rolled out.
 
BRUNHUBER: You mentioned teens there and we heard there that there's no age limit here, any concerns about that, after all, it is a very powerful medicine that alters by the chemistry, are there any dangers here?
 <br>[05:45:06]
 
GROSSMAN: Really there are no dangers whatsoever. This is a very safe product. You know, as we also heard, the only condition that's, you know, really considered, like a dangerous condition for someone to take the pill is breast cancer and breast cancer is really pretty much unheard of among teenagers. So it's really safe for this population. And it's just so needed. We know that teens often have problems accessing birth control, they may have difficulty getting to a clinic, they may not want to use their parent's insurance. It's very common that they -- when they first start using birth control that they use over the counter methods. So this adds a new over the counter method that is so much more effective than the currently available over the counter methods.
 
One other thing, I just want to point -- 
 
BRUNHUBER: Oh, yeah, go ahead.
 
GROSSMAN: Just one other thing I was going to say about that age issue is, you know, if there had been an age restriction, it just makes it so much more complicated, it means that you have to have an I.D. to be able to purchase the product and show your age, it has to be behind a counter in order to get it. So it's just such good news, that FDA followed the science and follow the recommendation of its own advisory committee to approve this without an age restriction.
 
BRUNHUBER: Then what about the, you know, another issue if people let's say, start turning to these oral contraceptives, you know, is it possible they might not use condoms leading to more STDs?
 
GROSSMAN: You know, we'll have to see how -- how that plays out. I mean, the reality is that, you know, currently combined dual use method is -- is -- we need to do more education really around that. In talking to, in surveys that have looked at this, people say that they -- if they're using condoms, they understand why they're using condoms to protect themselves against a sexually transmitted infection and would continue to use them if they had access to an over-the-counter pill. We'll have to see what happens with that. But it's really going to be key I think to continue educational pushes around that.
 
BRUNHUBER: Yeah, sounds like game changer with just huge implications. Really appreciate your analysis, Dr. Daniel Grossman, thanks so much.
 
GROSSMAN: Thank you.
 
BRUNHUBER: All right. Still ahead, the men's final at Wimbledon is set for today. The top players in the world Carlos Alcaraz versus, men, many considered the best ever Novak Djokovic. Tennis sports Carolyn Manno joins us live next to Premium Men's Wimbledon. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:51:41]
 
BRUNHUBER: Well, we could be in for one historic men's final today at Wimbledon, Novak Djokovic vs. Carlos Alcaraz. Djokovic looking to continue this quest for the calendar Grand Slams. CNN's Carolyn Manno joins us with more from New York. So Carolyn, I mean, it's the matchup everybody wanted to see. What do you think we can expect? CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Well, I'm hoping that this is going to be a match for the ages. I mean, it sounds like it could be the man that everybody considers to be the greatest of all-time. And Novak Djokovic is trying to become just the third man to ever accomplish this calendar Grand Slam facing this top player in the world right now. A young Spaniard named Carlos Alcaraz, who's admitted to cracking under the mental pressure, but physically is elite. So Novak, now just one went away from a record tying eighth Wimbledon title and his fifth straight after beating Jannik Sinner in straight sets. He hasn't lost a match on center court in a decade. He's looking supremely confident right now, Kim. He's won 34 matches in a row at Wimbledon. So the 36-year-old has only lost one Wimbledon Final that he's ever reached. That was 10 years ago. It should be a fascinating contest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOVAK DJOKOVIC, 23-TIME MAJOR WINNER: I think this is probably the best finals that we could have. We're both in good form. We're both playing well. We both, you know, I'll get I guess want to take this title. You know, without a doubt. I look forward to it. You know, it's going to be a great challenge, I think from -- greatest challenge, probably that I could have at the moment. Yes, I do have more experience playing in many more grand slam or Wimbledon finals than him but, you know, still he's in great shape. He's very motivated. He's young. He's hungry. I'm hungry too. So let's have a feast.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO: Meantime, 24-year-old Marketa Vondrousova becoming the first unseated woman to win Wimbledon on Saturday dominating Ons Jabeur in straight sets. The checks run was so unexpected in fact that she told her husband to stay back at home to look after their cat, Frankie. She's like don't even come. It's not even going to be a big deal. But then once she made the final they actually found a pet sitter so that he could make the trip to London and see her voices trophy as Wimbledon champion, but just an incredible performance.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARKETA VONDROUSOVA, 2023 WIMBLEDON CHAMPION: Yeah, I mean winning, it's amazing feeling, you know. I -- I have -- I have my husband here. My little sister. She -- she came, you know, also on Friday. So, yeah, I'm just very happy to share with the people, you know. I have here because in Paris it was a bit sad, you know, I -- I couldn't go there, you know, to hug them, and now this happened. So, I think, you know, just to share it with them. It's -- it's amazing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO: She embraced her sisters in this beautiful viral moment. 
 
Meantime, back stateside, Messi making it official signing with inter Miami yesterday. The deal making him a Florida man to the end of the 2025 season. And in the statement, the Argentine superstar said he's very excited. He's expected to debut from Miami on July 21 against the Mexican club's side Cruz Azul. 
 
The WNBA taking over Las Vegas this weekend highlighted by the triumphant return of Brittney Griner, the nine-time all-star playing in her first all-star game since being detained in Russia. The Mercury started delivering on the floor. She threw down the slam dunk for two of her 18 points on the night. Seattle's Jewell Loyd earning MVP honors scoring and all-star game record 31 points on 10 3s as team Breanna Stewart beat Team A'ja Wilson 143 to 127 the final. 
 <br>[05:55:06]
 
And finally, for you this morning Steph Curry once again proving he can hit a shot from absolutely anywhere. And not just with a basketball. The four-time NBA champ sinking a hole in one and then losing his mind breaking into a full out sprint, celebrating, soaking it all in. He was actually still out of breath came when the reporter caught up to ask him what it felt like. Certainly felt like one of the biggest moments of his professional sporting career to us.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEPH CURRY, FOUR-TIME NBA CHAMP: 140 yards not 94 feet. But, wow, I'll be out of breath for the rest of the day for a good reason, though. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There you go.
 
CURRY: That's what I'm talking about.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO: This is a guy that's won multiple championships right but certainly loves to golf too. So fun to see him, have some fun out there. Very impressive.
 
BRUNHUBER: Just doesn't seem fair that you'd be so good at so many different things. 
 
MANNO: I know.
 
BRUNHUBER: Carolyn Manno in New York, thanks so much. Appreciate it. 
 
All right before we go, no one hit the Powerball jackpot in the U.S. on Saturday night. So you know what that means, the jackpot rollover and it'll be drawn again on Monday. Right now the Monday jackpots expected to be $900 million. So if you win and take cash payout, the value will be little more than $465 million.
 
I'm Kim Brunhuber, you can follow me on Twitter @kimbrunhuber. For viewers in North America, CNN This Morning is next. For the rest of the world, it's Inside Africa.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:00:00]