Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia Escalates Attacks But Major Offensive Not Yet Launched; Adidas Unveils Jaw-Dropping Cost of Kanye Breakup; Report: Beyonce's Line with Adidas Missing Sales Targets; D.A. Reviewing All Cases Tied to 5 Ex-Officers in Tyre Nichols Death; How Schools Need to Prepare for Cardiac Arrest. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired February 10, 2023 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:30:00]
 
MAJ. MIKE LYONS, U.S. ARMY, RETIRED: But time is not on the side of Ukraine at this point. And the Russians are going to try to keep that initiative, go on the offensive and make sure that those tanks don't get there. 
 
What we haven't seen, though, is the Russians try to interdict some of those supply lines, go after rail heads. That's the only way they're going to make it to the battlefield with any kind of speed and accuracy, and that is to get them there on rail heads. 
 
So we haven't seen Russia do that. They're going to continue to bomb infrastructure and go after those high-value targets there. 
 
But Russia right now is doing what it does best and that is bring a lot of military power and capacity, move slowly and destroy everything in its path. 
 
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN HOST: And we're also seeing them really going after civilian targets, as well, which has been devastating for the Ukrainian people. 
 
Retired U.S. Army Major Mike Lyons, thank you for all of that. 
 
Up ahead for us, Adidas just revealed just how much its bitter breakup with Kanye West could cost. And it is a simply staggering figure. We'll have those details next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:35:37]
 
PHILLIP: The sportswear giant Adidas is putting a dollar figure on its very high-profile and very messy breakup with Kanye West. And like Kanye, or Ye as he is called now, it's a lot. 
 
CNN's business and politics correspondent, Vanessa Yurkevich, is here to break it down. 
 
Vanessa, how -- I hesitate to ask. How much money are we talking about really? VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS &amp; POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: Wow. This is
 
 an expensive breakup. I want to walk viewers back to how we got here essentially. 
 
October 2022, was not a good month for Kanye West. He wore a "White Lives Matter" shirt to a Paris fashion week event, got a lot of criticism there, got into a fight with P-Diddy. 
 
Tweeted anti-Semitic comments. More ranting and more anti-Semitic comments on a podcast, which ultimately led Adidas to terminate the partnership in October. 
 
So what is that costing Adidas? Wow. $1.3 billion because of this breakup. 
 
And why is that happening? That's because they have an estimated $1.3 billion of unsold Yeezy merchandise. So they simply can't sell it anymore. 
 
So what they're Looking to do is possibly, possibly rebrand the items. But part of this partnership was that people wanted to buy it because they knew it was Yeezy. 
 
And another thing they can do with this merchandise is ultimately destroy it or donate it, but that doesn't get them any money back. Potentially, rebranding could get them a couple hundred million dollars back. 
 
But you know, this partnership between Yeezy and Adidas, Abby, was so lucrative for about a decade. But, wow, just $1.3 billion in the hole now because of this breakup -- Abby? 
 
PHILLIP: Yes. And that explains why, in your earlier graphic, it took them a couple of weeks between some of the initial statements from Kanye West to get to that severance part. They didn't want to lose that $1.3 billion. 
 
But separately, the "Wall Street Journal" just reported not about Beyonce concert tickets but about this clothing line that she has with Adidas, Ivy Park. It is, despite all of the buzz around Beyonce, suffering from weak sales. 
 
What's going on there? 
 
YURKEVICH: Yes. You know, Beyonce may have broken records with the number of Grammys she's won, but she's not breaking records with Adidas right now. 
 
According to the "Wall Street Journal," sales dropped 50 percent last year compared to 2021. So it brought in about $40 million. That's the Ivy Park line. 
 
However, the projection from Adidas or the target from Adidas, rather, was $250 million. That's what they were hoping to get. So they are down in terms of what they were hoping to make by $200 million. Now according to Adidas -- they're responding to the "Wall Street
 
 Journal's" reporting on this -- they say, nope, the partnership is strong, and it's successful. 
 
Beyonce not commenting on this right now. However, what she is doing is, on Instagram, she's posting that there's a new Ivy Park drop this week. So there's a new line of merchandise coming out between the two. 
 
But projections, according to the "Wall Street Journal," for this year not looking much better, $65 million in sales for Ivy Park. They were hoping to target $335 million. That is a huge difference. 
 
I think all of this begs the question, Abby, are these celebrity partnership deals really worth it for brands? At least when it comes to Beyonce and Kanye West, the numbers are not painting that picture -- Abby? 
 
PHILLIP: I mean, if it doesn't work for Beyonce, I don't know who it's going to work with. I can't -- you know, there are not that many huge mega-stars out there, and she's one of them. So it really is a cautionary tale. 
 
Vanessa Yurkevich, thanks for breaking that down. 
 
YURKEVICH: Thanks. 
 <br>[13:39:30]
 
PHILLIP: And coming up next for us, the former police officers who were charged in the brutal beating death of Tyre Nichols could soon face a new legal trouble. We'll explain why next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
PHILLIP: In Memphis, the five former police officers charged in the fatal beating of Tyre Nichols are under more scrutiny. Prosecutors say that they're going to review every case involving these five. 
 
And this follows newly released documents that show that a sixth now- former officer initially said that Nichols tried to grab his partner's weapon. Now video does not corroborate that. And the fired officer then backtracked on that claim. 
 
CNN's Nick Valencia has been following these developments for us. 
 
Nick, what are we hearing from the district attorney about the discrepancy between the claims and what the video evidence shows? 
 
NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey there, Abby. They are looking into this. And this has turn into a sprawling investigation into these officers' past criminal cases. So anything that they participated in, pending cases or closed cases, anything where the district attorney brought criminal charges. 
 
And right now they're telling me one of the good things is that these officers weren't on the force for that long. Rather than looking at hundreds of cases potentially, we're potentially talking about dozens of cases. 
 <br>[13:45:07]
 
The bigger question, though, is right now they're going to look into the five officers. But does this investigation expand beyond them? And you know, are they going to look at the entirety of the SCORPION unit which is about 30 officers? 
 
In that case, it would be quite a heavy lift for the D,A.'s office -- Abby? 
 
PHILLIP: Yes. It raises some serious questions about how far -- how far this goes within that Memphis Police Department. 
 
VALENCIA: Yes.
 
PHILLIP: Nick, thank you for following all of this for us. 
 
VALENCIA: You bet. 
 
PHILLIP: And a defibrillator saved Damar Hamlin's life when his heart stopped on that football field. But some high school athletes in that same situation may not be so lucky. The results of a CNN investigation, up next. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: What if it had happened a few miles away from here? 
 
PETE LAAKE, FATHER OF PETER LAAKE: It would have been a totally different outcome. You can do CPR until you're blue in the face, and it's never going to restart the heart. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:50:42]
 
PHILLIP: This week, NFL Union doctors said they were optimistic that the Buffalo Bills' Damar Hamlin will play football again after experiencing a rare cardiac arrest on the field last month. 
 
But what if he had still been in high school, and suffered a similar event? Would he have gotten the same treatment? 
 
Well, our Dr. Sanjay Gupta investigates that issue. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Go ahead and go over to the cot. I don't like how he went down.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to need everybody. All call. All call. GUPTA (voice-over): When Buffalo Bills Safety Damar Hamlin collapsed on the field in January, Pete Laake immediately thought about his son, Peter. 
 
PETE LAAKE: It really brought back a lot of emotions, and still does to be truthful. 
 
GUPTA: Two years ago, then a high school freshman, Peter Laake, was playing defense for the Loyola Dons against the McDonogh Eagles. He was right around the 20-yard line. 
 
And what you're about to watch is the exact moment his heart stopped beating.
 
PETER LAAKE, EXPERIENCED CARDIAC ARREST ON LACROSSE FIELD: I went to the ball, like stepped in front of it, and I just got hit. Like, I've done that many times before. 
 
JEREMY PARR, ASSISTANT ATHLETIC DIRECTOR &amp; HEAD ATHLETIC TRAINER, LOYOLA HIGH SCHOOL: And I kind of even winced in - like just thinking in my head, oh, that one's going to hurt. 
 
GUPTA: Jeremy Parr is the assistant athletic director and the head athletic trainer at Peter's school. 
 
That sunny day, he was watching diligently from the sidelines. 
 
PARR: Because this shot was pretty hard, I was watching Peter instead of the course of the action of the game. 
 
PETER LAAKE: And I started looking for what was going to happen next and then,5 just like that, you know, I like got dizzy and I just like blacked out. 
 
PARR: I could hear first. He had some agonal breathing. So it was like this gasping or gurgling for air. He's prone on the ground. I checked for a pulse, and we didn't have one. 
 
GUPTA: The diagnosis, commotio cordis, a rare phenomenon with fewer than 30 cases reported every year. 
 
Now, let me show you what happened to Peter. His heart here is contracting and relaxing. That's a normal rhythm. 
 
But at the exact millisecond the heart needs to recharge before the next beat -- that's this little bump here -- the lacrosse ball hit the left side of his chest. 
 
As a result, his heart never got the chance to relax. It starts fibrillating instead. Peter goes into cardiac arrest. And the clock starts ticking. 
 
GUPTA (on camera): What was that like for you? 
 
PARR: Didn't have time to think. With no pulse, no breathing, we needed to get the AED and EMS activated as soon as possible. GUPTA (voice-over): And in Peter's case, it all worked, and fast. Two
 
 to three minutes. 
 
But watching all this as a parent, I couldn't help but wonder, what if this were my kid's school? Your kid's school? 
 
As part of a CNN investigation, we learned that nowadays at least 20 states have laws requiring AEDs. And in reality, about 70 to 80 percent of schools have at least one defibrillator on hand. 
 
But how accessible they are, that is the real issue we uncovered. 
 
GUPTA (on camera): What if it had happened, you know, a few miles away from here? 
 
PETE LAAKE: It would have been a totally different outcome. You can do CPR till you're blue in the face and it's never going to restart the heart. It is 100 percent access to an AED within a very timely period. 
 
GUPTA (voice-over): Turns out, where you live makes a big difference. 
 
For example, in Ohio, in Michigan, more than 70 percent of public schools had AEDs, but in locations that simply couldn't be reached in time. 
 
In Oregon, just half of schools had an AED accessible within four minutes of all sports venues. 
 
In Vermont, despite 81 percent of schools having an AED, just 16 percent of them had them located at fields or arenas. And about half the time, they were in the school nurse's office or the lobby. 
 
PARR: This is an example of a portable -- 
 
GUPTA: We learned that athletic trainers are critical. In schools that had athletic trainers, were more likely to have AEDs. 
 
The chance of survival from a cardiac arrest nearly doubled to over 80 percent if an athletic trainer or AED were used. 
 
But as things stand now, a third of the country's schools don't have anyone in that position. 
 <br>[13:54:59]
 
PARR: All athletes should be afforded the same resources that we have here, that Division I athletes in college have and professional sports as well. 
 
GUPTA: That's the thing, it's availability and access. Both are crucially important. 
 
And it's one of the most important things you can do for your kids. Make sure AEDs are available and accessible in your kid's school. It saved Peter Laake's life and allowed for moments like this.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
PHILLIP: Dr. Sanjay Gupta, thank you for that really important report. 
 
And that does it for me here. CNN NEWSROOM will continue right after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)