Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: FBI Arrests Man For Alleged Explosives In Suitcase; Battery Fire Breaks Out On Spirit Airlines Flight; Severe Storms, Tornado Brewing In Southeastern States; Experts Worried About Russian Control Of Zaporizhzhia Site; U.S. Congratulates Nigeria On Election Results; Labour Party Plans Court Challenge, Says Vote Was "Rigged". Aired 2- 2:45a ET

Aired March 02, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:32]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here on the United States and all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church.
 
Just ahead here on CNN NEWSROOM. An explosive device with two fuses found hidden in the lining of checked baggage. The man accused of trying to get through airport security arrested. 
 
Severe storms, even tornadoes forecast in the south east while a state of emergency declared in parts of snowpack California.
 
Plus, the big green reason why Fox News can't quit the MyPillow Guy even as he continues pushing bogus election lies.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us. Well, federal agents have arrested a Pennsylvania man for allegedly trying to bring explosives in his luggage on a flight to Florida. Authorities say 40-year-old Mark Muffley was arrested at his home on Monday night after security agents had flagged his checked luggage earlier in the day. CNN's Evan Perez has details.
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: According to the FBI, he checked the bag and in the -- in the -- in the routine screening that was happening by the TSA, they found explosives in this check bag. According to the FBI, this is what they found. They found a powder that was in a plastic wrap. They found fuses. The powder appears to be from commercial grade fireworks. And so, the question is, you know, what was he doing with this?
 
The airport tried to page him while he was still at the airport. He left and he was later arrested later that evening on Monday by the FBI. Now, the court documents that were released today by the U.S. Attorney in Philadelphia don't mention any indication of extremism or his ties to terrorist groups or anything like that. There's somebody that obviously the FBI was focused on over the last couple of days.
 
Nothing like that appears to have emerged in that investigation. This is a very serious thing obviously. If you read the court documents, the FBI says that this powder that was included in this -- in this compound was susceptible to ignite from heat and friction and pose a significant risk to the aircraft and passengers.
 
CHURCH: Severe turbulence forced a Lufthansa flight headed from Texas to Germany to be diverted to Dallas Airport in Virginia. The airline says seven people were injured Wednesday when the flight encountered clear air turbulence which can occur without warning. The passengers were treated on board and taken to hospitals once the plane landed. In another flight mishap, a Spirit Airlines plane headed from Dallas to Orlando was diverted to Jacksonville, Florida after the crew spotted a battery on fire in an overhead bin.
 
A passenger says it apparently came from a battery pack that was charging a cellphone and that the cabin quickly filled with smoke. The crew put out the fire in flight and firefighters assess the situation once the plane landed. Federal authorities are investigating.
 
Well, it is a rough week ahead for the U.S. A severe weather looms across the country. Parts of the West Coast are trying to four out from a massive snowstorm now moving east. Meantime thunderstorms, tornadoes and flooding are in the forecast for states in the southeast. Some parts of California have seen more than 100 inches of snow in the last week, which prompted the governor to declare a state of emergency in 13 counties. 
 
CNN Meteorologist Derek Van Dam has more on the storms developing across the U.S.
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Well, the severe weather season has trended in all the wrong directions. So far, the U.S. has more than doubled its average number of tornadoes since the beginning of the year. Receiving over 215 reports of tornadoes since the first of January. Just incredible because we continue to add to that number as a line of stronger storms moves throughout the deep south.
 
But what I'm particularly concerned about will take place later tonight across East Texas into portions of Arkansas and Northwestern Louisiana. The Storm Prediction Center picking up on this as well.
 <br>[02:05:06]
 
We have a level four of five. That is a moderate risk of severe weather today where you see that shading of red with of course a level three of five surrounding that. This is direct language from the SPC. Some tornadoes could be strong, widespread, damaging winds and large hail as well. We're going to look out for that just east of Dallas into the Texarkana region. On top of the severe weather threat, there's a flash flood threat with the potential for three to upwards of six inches of rain falling out of some of these storms that move over the same locations.
 
Now, there it is, picking up some of the energy from the Gulf of Mexico. That low pressure is going to sweep eastward and then look what it does by the weekend. It's going to lay a swath of snow across the Great Lakes and into northern New England. We could pick up over half a foot of snow for Chicago to my home state of Michigan, as well as over a foot of snow across northern New England.
 
Speaking of snow, look what's happening out west. We have buried homes in Yosemite National Park. We have received over seven feet of snow near Palisades, near the lake Tahoe region with more snow coming up. Back to you.
 
CHURCH: The Greek Prime Minister says tragic human error is the main cause of Tuesday's head on train collision that has now left at least 43 people dead. Dozens of passengers are hurt and crews are still sifting through the wreckage searching for signs of life. Meanwhile, the Greek transportation minister has resigned. A train station manager has been arrested and the Greek government has declared three days of national mourning.
 
CNN's Eleni Giokos is covering the collision. She joins us live from Dubai. Eleni, tragically, the death toll is rising. What is the latest on this deadly train disaster?
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The national broadcaster is saying the death toll is between 42 and 43. But they say that that is expected to rise. The big issue here is those first two carriages that caught our lights and took a really long time to put out. Rescue workers still on the scene trying to get through that mangled metal. There were cranes, there was metal cutting machinery as well. There were over 150 firefighters at one point in time.
 
In terms of the hospitalizations right now, we know that there were over 70 people that were injured right now. 57 people are in hospitals, six of whom are in intensive care. There have succumb to burning. We also know that there's major head injuries as well. But these numbers are moving. We're waiting this morning. It's still early in Greece for an update from the fire department.
 
But in the meantime, I was going through some of the front pages in Greece and they really are moving some of the headlines, the dead are waiting. Just a question on one cover saying why blind trains. It's not a mistake. It's a crime. And then one that really, really moved me. It's something my mother says constantly is call me when you get there. Because these trains, the passenger train was filled with mostly university students that were enjoying carnival over the weekend.
 
It was ash Monday, many of whom were returning. This is what's really shocking the nation as well. And as you say, big repercussions, Transport Minister resigning and the prime minister saying this was mostly due to human error, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: It is so sad. Eleni Giokos bringing us up to date on that disaster. Many thanks. 
 
Ukraine's military has so far stopped Russian forces from making much headway in the battle for Bakhmut. But a Ukrainian commander says it's becoming increasingly difficult. Ukrainian officials report heavy fighting on the outskirts of the city and street fighting in the suburbs. Ukraine's military says Russian forces and now using more experienced fighters from the Wagner group of mercenaries in this fight.
 
About 4500 civilians remain in the city as Vladimir Putin's army inches closer. Thousands of homes have been destroyed. But Ukrainian troops say they're not backing down.
 
Well, two of Vladimir Putin's biggest allies strengthened ties on Wednesday. Chinese President Xi Jinping described his friendship with President Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus as unbreakable. Lukashenko is in Beijing on a state visit where the topic of Russia's invasion of Ukraine is bound to come up. And CNN's Will Ripley has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): From one strong man to another, a lavish state visit in Beijing for the man many call Europe's last dictator. Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko meeting behind closed doors with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Two close allies of Russian President Vladimir Putin. China and Belarus bolstering autocratic support for Putin, for Moscow despite Russia's unprovoked war on Ukraine.
 <br>[02:10:09]
 
Beijing's lasting the U.S. last week for what China calls external interference in Belarus' internal affairs and illegal unilateral sanctions against the country for supporting Putin's war. Before Beijing rolled out the red carpet, Lukashenko praised China's progress.
 
ALEXANDER LUKASHENKO, PRESIDENT OF BELARUS (through translator): Today, not a single issue in the world can be resolved without China.
 
RIPLEY: On the surface, they seem like unlikely allies. China's economy dwarfs that of Belarus. China's population, about 150 times bigger, but Belarus straddles a strategic hotspot bordering both Ukraine and Russia.
 
Last year, Lukashenko allowed Putin's army to invade Ukraine through his territory. Belarusian and Russian troops expanded joint combat drills in January. Casting doubt on Lukashenko's claimed he won't send his soldiers into battle unless Ukraine attacks first. Tanks and trenches bolster Ukraine's northern border with Belarus. I traveled there in December, troops train with World War I style tactics, constantly preparing for potential Russian attacks.
 
We are not afraid of them says the captain, Dimitri (ph).
 
China's deepening ties with Putin's allies puts further strain on its U.S. relationship. Tensions rising more this week. Top U.S. officials accusing China of a plot to possibly send weapons to Russia warning against what the U.S. calls lethal support. ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: We did very clearly warn China about the implications and consequences of going through with providing such support.
 
JAKUB JAKUBOWSKI, DEPUTY DIRECTOR, CENTER FOR EASTERN STUDIES: This is a red line that both the U.S. and many other Western countries and the E.U. itself have drawn for China and told China directly not to cross it.
 
RIPLEY: China denies planning to arm Russia, positioning itself as a potential peacekeeper. Publishing a 12-point document without calling Putin's war an invasion now entering its second year.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RIPLEY: President Xi claims to be neutral in all of this. And yet, he's widely believed to be preparing for a possible Putin visit in the coming months while at the same time refusing to even speak by phone with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about this so-called peace plan. Instead, he's joining forces with fellow strong men like Lukashenko as the Russian president appears to be determined to win this war in Ukraine at any cost.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Tokyo,
 
CHURCH: And U.S.-made firepower could soon be headed to Taiwan. The White House has approved a potential sale of more than $600 million worth of new weapons for the island. They would include hundreds of missiles for F-16 fighter jets, which is likely to inflame the already high tensions between the U.S. and China. The Biden administration notified Congress of the proposed sale on Wednesday.
 
Russia's Sergey Lavrov arrived just a short time ago at the G20 foreign ministers meeting in New Delhi. The war in Ukraine is expected to dominate the agenda along with the growing U.S. and China tensions.
 
Danny Russel is the vice president for International Security and diplomacy at the Asia Society Policy Institute. And he joins me now from New York. Appreciate you being with us.
 
DANNY RUSSEL, VICE PRESIDENT FOR INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AND DIPLOMACY, ASIA SOCIETY POLICY INSTITUTE (via Skype): Happy to join you, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: So, tensions between the United States and China are heating up in the wake of the spy balloon incident and Beijing now considering sending lethal support to Russia for its war on Ukraine. On Wednesday, we saw President Xi Jinping meet with visiting Putin ally Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko sending a clear message of strengthening ties between Beijing and Moscow. You've studied China for many years. Where do you see all of this going?
 
RUSSEL: Well, Rosemary, I think the Chinese are trying to do several things in terms of diplomacy there. They've recently reached out to the Europeans, to Chancellor Scholz to Germany to Macron and met with President Biden in Bali. They're working on the developing countries trying to position champ -- China has a champion of the Global South.
 
But importantly there going after their partners in the autocratic world. Obviously, Russia, but also countries like Iran whose president just visited China for the first time in 20 years. And I think that Lukashenko of Belarus falls straight into this category of countries that are under pressure from the west and are pushing back. So, clearly we're seeing a growing divide between the Sino-Russian axis and the West.
 <br>[02:15:08]
 
CHURCH: And of course, the U.S. warned China Tuesday that providing lethal aid to Russia for its war on Ukraine will be met with steeper economic consequences. Knowing China as you do, how likely is it that Beijing would just go ahead and send lethal support to Russia despite that threat? And if it does that, why do you think Beijing would want to have anything to do with Putin's failed war that has dragged on for more than a year with no clear end in sight?
 
RUSSEL: The Chinese definitely don't want to get dragged into Putin has failed war, failing war, and they certainly don't want to take the blame or suffer the consequences in the form of either sanctions or spoiled relations between China and the Europeans. The -- this is a hugely important market for China and it's trying to woo investors business people back into China after the COVID pandemic.
 
It may be that they thought that they could hide behind plausible deniability and in other words, that Chinese companies could make commercial transfers of ammunition or something like that. And the Chinese leaders would turn a blind eye perhaps thinking that this was a gray area and not a red line. But the Biden administration has gone public in a very clear way. Clearly, the U.S. goal is to deter China from crossing that line and not have to impose sanctions.
 
CHURCH: Danny Russel, thank you so much for joining us. Appreciate it.
 
RUSSEL: Thank you.
 
CHURCH: A prominent Republican gets grilled over his association with Fox News. Why Paul Ryan landed on the hot seat? Plus, why the right- wing network has such a cozy relationship with a conspiracy theorist who peddled pillows. Back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:20:47]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Well, former U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan is facing tough questions about why he has remained on the board of Fox News parent company after bombshell documents show the network knowingly pushed lies about the 2020 presidential election being stolen. Lies that have Fox facing a $1.6 billion lawsuit. A conservative commentator press Ryan on why he's still associates himself with Fox. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) CHARKIE SYKES, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: If you are on the board of directors of a company disinformation, and attacks on democracy. If you don't stand up now, then when?
 
PAUL RYAN FOX CORPORATION BOARD MEMBER: I have a responsibility to offer my opinion and perspective and I do that, but I don't go out on T.V. and do it.
 
SYKES: Right. I understand. But do you?
 
RYAN: I do. I do. I offer my perspective and my opinion, often. I'll just leave it at that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And this comes as Fox keeps airing ads by election denier and conspiracy theorist Mike Lindell. The CEO of MyPillow as he pushes false voter fraud claims which he just did on Wednesday on Twitter. Tom Foreman explains why Fox and Lindell have been so inseparable. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE LINDELL, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, MYPILLOW: Trying to attack your country and flip the election.
 
This is the biggest cover up ever. I have the evidence --
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): From the get go, it was a match made in media. Mike Lindell, the conservative entrepreneur who made a fortune selling pillows and Fox. 
 
TUCKER CARLSON, FOX NEWS ANCHOR: He's one of our biggest sponsors and we are grateful for that.
 
FOREMAN: The right-wing news empire that took his ad dollars and let him relentlessly push unfounded conspiracy theories about how the election was stolen from Donald Trump. How Dominion Voting Machines were part of the plot and how Dominion was allegedly trying to take him own for exposing.
 
LINDELL: They hired hit groups and bots and trolls went after all my vendors, all these box stores to cancel me out.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: You ever see this guy with the pillows on Fox?
 
FOREMAN: Lindell's mutual admiration with Trump has always been out in the open and unshakable.
 
LINDELL: When I walked out of his office, I was 100 percent convinced he would be the greatest president in history.
 
FOREMAN: less publicized how much money Lindell has poured into the Fox empire. His chief outlets for promoting Trump. In the summer of 2021, the Wall Street Journal said Lindell told the paper, MyPillow spent almost $50 million on Fox News last year. And so far this year has shelled out about 19 million for ad time on the network.
 
LINDELL: I want you to get the best night's sleep in your life.
 
FOREMAN: In a recent court deposition made public and illegal filing, Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of Fox Corporation acknowledged Lindell is a very big advertiser.
 
The man is on every night. Pays us a lot of money, Murdoch said. But then he added, at first you think it's comic, but then you get bored and irritated. What's more with Dominion denying all the accusations and suing Fox, Lindell and others in massive defamation cases. Murdoch suggested under oath, he was troubled by a Fox News star letting Lindell repeat his unfounded claims again and again without even pushing back.
 
LINDELL: No. I have the evidence. I dare people to put it on. I dare Dominion to sue me.
 
FOREMAN: Yet Lindell steamed on, denying any wrongdoing in the Dominion suit against him and sounding off at Fox on his podcast and other venues for not more wholly embracing the wild theories of one of their biggest advertisers and the defeated former president he admires. 
 
LINDELL: Fox, where are you? Where are you, Fox?
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOREMAN: CNN has reached out to Lindell and to Fox for any additional comments, nothing yet. Fox also disputes to claims in the Dominion case. But it's worth noting that the case is revealing. Many, many people at Fox knew that what Lindell was seeing on the air was false, that the election had been fairly lost by Donald Trump, fairly won by Joe Biden. And yet, they let Lindell go on the air and make his claims anyway.
 
Tom Foreman, CNN, Washington.
 <br>[02:25:05]
 
CHURCH: And still to come. Fresh fears over the safety and security of this nuclear power plant under Russian control in Ukraine. Experts say the situation is cause for concern. We'll explain why next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Ukrainian authorities report a series of Russian rocket attacks hit a residential building in the city of Zaporizhzhia overnight. Emergency Response Teams rescued nine people including a pregnant woman. The attack killed at least two people and rescue efforts are ongoing. Officials are raising concerns about the safety of the nearby nuclear power plant. The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency says the plant faces persistent security risks due to the war.
 
This Saturday will mark one year since Russian forces seize control of the nuclear site. And CNN's Clare Sebastian reports experts are worried Russia's tight grip on the facility could lead to disaster.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:30:01]
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: A year into its occupation of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, Russia is making changes. Satellite images showing the dry storage area where spent nuclear fuel is kept after being cooled, first in August, last year. Then, at the end of February, what looks like a wall or structure has appeared. Russia's Atomic Energy Company Rosatom, tell state media it's building a shield to protect against Ukrainian artillery strikes. A local Russian-backed official posted this in December, calling it a protective dome.
 
PETRO KOTIN, PRESIDENT OF ENERGOATOM: It's all illegal, doing manage without license because it could impact nuclear and radiation safety.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover): The head of Ukraine's Atomic Energy Company Energoatom says, it's all part of a deteriorating situation it's a parrhesia that he is powerless to stop.
 
(on camera) What is the biggest risk right now, when it comes to safety in the plant?
 
KOTIN: Yes, biggest risk is that we do not know what is in their hands at the moment. You can expect they can do anything. So, they can continue shelling on the plant , for example.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover): Energoatom says Russia which forcibly took over the plant last March, damaging several buildings in the process continues to use it as a de facto military base. Video surfaced last summer of military trucks in one of the turbine buildings next to a reactor. Last month, Energoatom accused Russia of bringing hundreds of newly mobilized troops to the site, before deploying them to the East. Russia atom own press service for the power plant denied, there's any heavy military equipment on site. But noted that Russia's National Guard troops, Putin's domestic security force a guarding the plant.
 
RAFAEL GROSSI, IAEA CHIEF: I'm very worried about Zaporizhzhia. I'm very worried.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover): Energoatom says, the plant has been cut off from the electricity grid five times in total, leaving diesel generators the last line of defense before a catastrophe. Fighting has also come too close. The IAEA report shelling hit a building housing fresh nuclear fuel in September, and a reactor building in November. Energoatom now estimates four and a half thousand Ukrainian staff are left at the plant, out of 11,000 before the war.
 
NICK TOMKINSON, SENIOR PARTNER, GLOBAL NUCLEAR SECURITY PARTNERS: That reduction of the number of people is going to have a significant impact on their ability to maintain and function sort of systems. Whether or not that's security systems, safety systems, radiation monitoring. SEBASTIAN (voiceover): Nuclear expert Nick Tomkinson says, he is working with the Ukrainian government to try to deploy radiation mapping systems. It's a parrhesia and other nuclear sites.
 
TOMKINSON: One of the concerns could be that things could go missing from Zaporizhzhia, particularly some of the fuel. I'm not worried about a mistake, what I'd be worried about was is an active decision to do something.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover): Ukraine's nuclear power company is worried about a slow-motion mistake. Poor maintenance leading to the degradation of the equipment on the site, including the reactors themselves currently all in various states have shut down.
 
KOTIN: It is going to the stage, nobody knows to -- if we will be able to operate again. And this is just a matter of time.
 
SEBASTIAN (voiceover): The Russian side says strict radiation safety standards are being observed. Hardly a constellation when 20 percent of Ukraine's electricity supply, remains hostage to this war.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SEBASTIAN (on camera): Rosemary, there is no letup. The IAEA, the U.N. nuclear watchdog reports last weekend, that the backup power line connecting the plant to the Ukrainian electricity grid was severed again it was then restored. The staff there also said, they had around 20 detonations in the vicinity of the plant. This as the IAEA is expressing concern that a planned rotation of staff to that plant is more than three weeks late. And I want to point out as well that Rosatom, Russia's Nuclear Energy Monopoly, continues to avoid most Western sanctions even as the rest of Russia's energy industry has been heavily sanctioned, Rosemary?
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Many thanks to Clare Sebastian, for that report. And still to come. Many Nigerians are protesting the election of their new President, with some planning to fight the results in court. We're live in Lagos, after the break.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CHURCH: The U.S. is congratulating Nigerian officials, on the results of last weekend's Presidential election. Bola Ahmed Tinubu, from the Ruling all progressives Congress Party, was declared the winner on Wednesday with almost 37 percent of the vote. But many Nigerians are still angry claiming this election was stolen. And CNN's Larry Madowo, joins us now live from Lagos, with more. Good to see you, Larry. So, congratulations coming from the United States. But many Nigerians are protesting against these results, calling it a rigged vote. What is the latest on this?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The latest is that conference, that congratulatory call from the United States and from the U.K. These are important stamps of international legitimacy for Bola Tinubu, the President-elect and for INEC the body that conducted this poll, the Independent National Electoral Commission. Because there's been a huge amount of criticism, not just from voters who felt disenfranchised from opposition parties that did not like the outcome and essentially walked away from it, boycotted it, but also from just -- even local organizations by Bola Tinubu, receive a certificate was so celebratory he said and he had acknowledged that lesson.
 
I know that people didn't vote for me who are disappointed, but I will be your president too and extended an olive branch. Today his presidential campaign is saying that he's one committee has to reach out to the gentleman that wanted it. But I will be your president too and extended an olive branch. Today his presidential campaign is saying that his one committee is to reach out to the gentleman that he ran against, trying to extend that olive branch. Because as far as we know, he's not received a congratulatory call from number two and number three in this election.
 
That will be Atiku Abubakar of the PDP and Peter Obi, I used favorites of the Labour Party. But this election is now getting a lot of criticism from a huge amount of bodies, local and external. I want to give you a list this is not exhaustive; these are just some of the organizations that have so far criticized this election. Begin obviously voters across the nation who felt that, they were intentionally suppressed. But this is a long list, that will be a long time for the INEC to regain public trust in its ability to conduct elections. Rosemary.
 <br>[02:40:48]
 
CHURCH: That is indeed a very long list. Larry Madowo, joining us live from Lagos. Many thanks for that. And I'm Rosemary Church, for our international viewers, "WORLD SPORT" is next. And for our viewers here in North America. I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)