Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Today, Federal Grand Jury Expected to Meet in Jan. 6 Case; Trump Burns Through Donor Cash as Legal Troubles Mount; French Foreign Minister Says, First Niger Evacuation Flight is Airborne. Aired 7- 7:30a ET

Aired August 01, 2023 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:00:00]
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER:  And people are now coming out who are close and sharing those last conversations now.
 
POPPY HARLOW, Wow. We'll always have both of their work to remember them by. Chloe, thank you.
 
MELAS:  You're welcome. Thanks.
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR:  Well, CNN This Morning continues right now.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR:  Trump is predicting that his next indictment is imminent. Any day now is the way he worded it in a new post on social media.
 
LAURA COATES, CNN ANCHOR:  We're learning that the surveillance footage is tied to the new obstruction charges was actually only obtained in recent weeks.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  And in Georgia, the county judge just rejected efforts by Trump's legal team to toss evidence in that criminal investigation.
 
FANI WILLIS, FULTON COUNTY ATTORNEY GENERAL:  The work is accomplished. We're ready to go.
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR:  The former business associate of Hunter Biden has testified before closed-door Congressional hearing. Devon Archer said that Hunter Biden sold the, quote, illusion of access to his father.
 
REP. JAMES COMER (R-KY):  Every day, this bribery scandal becomes more credible. There's a lot of smoke. And where there's smoke, there's fire.
 
REP. DANIEL GOLDMAN (D-NY):  There is no evidence linking Joe Biden to anything related to Hunter Biden. UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Russian officials are accusing Ukraine of launching a new wave of drone strikes in Moscow. One of them crashed into a high-rise tower.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Ukraine is getting stronger. Gradually, the war is returning to the territory of Russia.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Quite why the Russians are fighting so hard for here. Is it that these are their last lines of defense? Well, no. They think there's far more fighting to be done.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The wife of suspected serial killer Rex Heuermann revealing that her two adult children cry themselves to sleep, that they no longer feel human.
 
ROBERT MACEDONIO, ATTORNEY FOR GILGO BEACH SUSPECT'S WIFE:  She had no idea that this was going on, or the allegations were, her husband was a suspect.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I don't know where he spent his money. There's this contrast between Long Island and what we found in the city where he worked.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And here's the chance for Morgan from Rapinoe's best. The chance has gone. The flick on is dangerous. This is the chance. It's off the post.
 
By the width of a post and the skin of their teeth, the United States have qualified for the round of 16.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARLOW:  Phew. If you're waking up, the U.S. women's soccer team moves on in the World Cup. It was a nail biter, as Phil can tell you, watching it all morning.
 
MATTINGLY:  It was unsettling, frankly, because it's all about me and how I feel in the morning. But it was a good jolt of energy. So, I was very awake when I came.
 
HARLOW:  And they move on.
 
MATTINGLY:  And they move on. And that's what matters.
 
HARLOW:  Sweden. That is what matters.
 
MATTINGLY:  Yes, with the Swedes.
 
But we also have a lot of big news. We're going to have more on the World Cup later. But, first, today could be charging decision day for former President Donald Trump and the federal investigation into efforts to overturn the 2020 election. It's Tuesday, so the grand jury in that case may be meeting just a few hours from now as we learn new information in the other federal investigation into the ex-president.
 
In the classified documents case, his Mar-a-Lago property manager is now out on $100,000 bond after appearing in a Miami courtroom. Carlos De Oliveira is accused, among other things, of telling the club's I.T. director that, quote, the boss wanted surveillance footage deleted.
 
That surveillance video, it is now in the hands of the lawyers for both the defense and prosecution, according to a new court filing.
 
HARLOW:  Legal action means legal bills. New this morning, we're seeing just how big those bills are. How much is this costing the former president? Well, his political action committee, Save America, is burning through cash and now has less than $4 million left in its account. That is down from $105 million at the beginning of last year.
 
It does not seem to be hurting Trump politically in the polls. A new poll out this morning shows Trump statistically tied with President Biden in a hypothetical match-up in a general election, 43 and 43 in The New York Times/Siena College poll.
 
Let's get a lot more on what is happening on the legal side. Senior Crime and Justice Reporter Katelyn Polantz joins us. Good morning.
 
Indictment watch now for weeks, and it's Tuesday, as Phil said, so the grand jury may be meeting, also waiting for prosecutors to meet with Bernie Kerik. Would that have to happen before potential indictment in this case?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER:  Not necessarily, Phil and Poppy. The Justice Department, they are able to do a lot of things, and they also are able to bring an indictment and then continue investigating.
 
So, we do know that they are still looking into this close associate of Rudy Giuliani, Bernie Kerik. They do want to talk to him. He's going to be talking to them very soon. He's already turned over a great deal of documents. That could happen even after an indictment is filed.
 
And right now, where we sit is that Donald Trump says, he believes an indictment is imminent. There is nothing that says that that is incorrect. And that's because this grand jury in Washington that has been looking at January 6th, they have had quite a bit of momentum, especially over the last few weeks.
 
So, if you dial back the clock a bit on July 16th, that is when Donald Trump received the target letter from the Justice Department, telling him that he was very likely to be indicted for the second time related to this January 6th investigation that federal prosecutors had been conducting using a grand jury that has been meeting in Washington, D.C., for many, many months.
 <br>[07:05:04]
 
That grand jury often meets Tuesdays and Thursdays. So, here we are on a Tuesday. If they gather today, they very well could be asked to look at the indictment and to vote on it, to approve it and bring it into the court system as formal charges against the former president. That happened two weeks ago when he got the target letter. Since then, there has been additional witnesses into that grand jury. And then last week, the Trump defense team met. And so a lot has been happening behind the scenes. We're just going to have to see exactly what emerges publicly from the federal court.
 
MATTINGLY:  Katelyn, swinging back to the Mar-a-Lago case, obviously, we saw the De Olivera arraignment yesterday, the surveillance video now being in the hands of the prosecution, of Trump's defense lawyers. What's your sense of what that footage actually contains? Could that be damning to the former president's co defendants?
 
POLANTZ:  It could be, but we're going to have to see exactly what is revealed at the trial if these particular charges do end up going to trial as they're charged now.
 
So, Carlos de Oliveira and Walt Nauta, the other co-defendant, they are accused, along with Donald Trump, of trying to talk about and get rid of surveillance footage. Not that any surveillance footage that Trump Organization had of that property was actually deleted, but they're charged with wanting to try and take steps to get rid of it because it very well may have captured them moving boxes that had federal records in them when the Justice Department was seeking to get those returned. And that surveillance footage, that's only one piece of the evidence.
 
From what we can see in the indictment itself, Phil and Poppy, there is a description of De Oliveira and Walt Nauta walking with a flashlight through a tunnel to look at surveillance cameras just days after the Trump Organization and Donald Trump became aware that they were going to be subpoenaed for all of this surveillance footage.
 
There's also another episode where just a couple of days after that, De Oliveira is captured walking through the bushes and then walking back through the bushes on the grounds of Mar-a-Lago. So, all of that together could be quite substantial. But then there's also very likely witness testimony that could come into play here.
 
MATTINGLY:  A lot of moving parts. I was going to say stay on high alert today, Katelyn, but I think you pretty much always are at this point. Great reporting, as always, Katelyn Polantz.
 
HARLOW:  All right. Let's bring in Senior Legal Analyst Elie Honig. Elie, good morning to you. Just talk to us about -- catch us up on this 2020 election probe. What's the latest? I guess an indictment could come any day.
 
ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST:  Yes, Poppy. So, we are clearly in endgame, but the big question is, when will we arrive at the end? Now, as it turns out, we have a pretty good example because this same prosecutor has already indicted Donald Trump, of course, in the Mar-a- Lago classified documents case. So, what does that tell us about when we might see a decision on an indictment in the election probe?
 
Well, let's do a little math here. First of all, in the last case, and in this case, Jack Smith sent target letters over to Donald Trump. And in the Mar-a-Lago case, he sent that letter on May 19th. The indictment came on June 20th. That's a 20-day lag. Now, in the January 6 case, the target letter went out on July 16th. We are now 16 days in. There does not have to be mathematical precision here, but it can give us a rough sense of where we are. Will there be an indictment? We don't know. We're in the ballpark.
 
Now, the other thing that happened at the very end of the other case is the defense lawyers came in and met with DOJ to make this sort of last pitch why you should not indict my client. Last time, that meeting happened on June 5th, the indictment came down June 8th. I had to do some hard calculus here. That was three days. And this time, the meeting happened on July 27th. We are now five days after that.
 
So, again, what you can safely say is we are in the ballpark. When the end will come will be up to the prosecutors and the grand jury.
 
HARLOW:  Can you walk through what potential charges we're looking at here?
 
HONIG:  Yes. So, again, this is as reflected in the target letter that Jack Smith sent to Donald Trump, according to Trump's team. And, by the way, last time the charges in the target letter were similar, but not identical to what charges ended up in the indictment.
 
Here, we know that the charges listed in the target letter include conspiracy to commit an offense against the United States and deprivation of civil rights. These tell me that the emphasis is really likely to be on the weeks and days leading up to January 5th, the scheme to try to steal the election.
 
And then the third one is witness tampering. But we have to put -- I put an asterisk there on purpose because I actually think it's going to turn out to be different. There is a very broad statute that, yes, covers witness tampering, but also covers obstruction of an official proceeding, which would relate to an attempt to stop Congress from counting the electoral ballot.
 
So, as soon as we get this indictment, let's see how this measures up.
 
HARLOW:  Also, who the team of prosecutors and who the grand jury's heard from, the witnesses in all of this, who Jack Smith talked to. That really is a key clue, is it not? Who did he talk to?
 
HONIG:  Yes. One thing I think we can discern from all this is Jack Smith is looking at the seven-state strategy, Donald Trump's effort to steal the election in these seven states. We know that DOJ has spoken with various officials from these seven states, Brad Raffensperger from Georgia, officials from Arizona, the former governor. So, they're clearly looking at this --
 
HARLOW:  From every state.
 
HONIG:  Yes, they're looking at this through a broad lens.
 <br>[07:10:01] Related to that, the fake elector scheme, the submission of these documents, we know they've spoken with some of the fake electors. They've spoken with Mike Pence, the former vice president. And we know that they've spoken with various people who were at the rally beforehand.
 
HARLOW:  Okay, we'll watch. Elie, thank you very much.
 
MATTINGLY:  Well, you know what the legal issues are. Where there are lawyers, there are expenses. And Trump's political operation for his re-election, they're burning through money quite fast to try and meet those expenses and using some seemingly questionable financial tactics to cover those expenses.
 
Now, according to the FEC filings, Trump started 2022 before any of the indictments came down with a whopping $105 million for his Save America PAC, his joint political action committee. Now, the same PAC at this moment, based on the filing that arrived last night, less than $4 million in the bank.
 
The campaign is spending more than it's bringing in, even though its various fundraising arms for the former president brought in about $53 million in donations in the first six months of the year it has spent, when you look at the entirety of its committee finance consolation, more than $53 million. In fact, if you add in, the super PAC has spent more than $100 million in the first six months of the year.
 
Also, Trump's Leadership Pac has spent about $21 million on legal fees for the president and his associates in the first six months, if you actually look at what that means, up more than 70 percent of the total distributions through the first six months of the year.
 
Now, Trump's fundraising entities are trying to cover the costs in any way they can. And this is by far the most fascinating dynamic of this FEC filing, kind of the entire universe of the Trump campaign spend right now. The political action committee transferred 60 or donated 60 million to the super PAC, Make America Great Again.
 
Now, super PACs and the political operations of a candidate are not allowed to coordinate. They are not allowed to operate within one another or talk to one another or give one another money. Technically, when it comes to giving it back, the political action committee asked for a refund, a refund of $60 million in total. What we saw in the FEC filing is that they have gotten, up to this point, $12.3 million in total.
 
That's a larger refund, and to some degree, you want to put refund in quotes here, than has ever happened before, based at least on my read of FEC filings and refunds up to this point.
 
So, the question is, one, how is this happening? Why is it happening? Clearly, we know it's a legal bill problem right now. They have a look liquidity issue, both from the campaign, and they're going to the super PAC to get money back. But this is something I've never seen before in campaign finance. It's not those rules are actually really strong to some degree, and the Trump campaigns make clear that they followed everything to the rule of the law. But it's fascinating.
 
HARLOW:  It totally is. Let's bring in our experts to talk about it. CNN Philip Commentator and Anchor of Spectrum News Errol Louis, National Correspondent for The Washington Post Philip Bump, Elie Honig back at the table with us as well.
 
I was saying earlier, it is harder for me to return a dress, apparently, Philip, than it is to return or ask for $60 million back from an entity, by the way, that is supposed to have no conversations, official ties with any candidate. That's the only rule, I suppose, anymore around PACs. And where did it go?
 
PHILIP BUMP, NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT, THE WASHINGTON POST:  Yes. No, I mean, we're seeing some really innovative uses of PACs, innovative, not a nice way (INAUDIBLE). Ron DeSantis, for example, is very close with this Never Back Down PAC, that has a ton of money as well.
 
Obviously, the advantage for the PACs are that they can raise as much money as they need to. They don't need to report, they don't have the same contribution limits that the campaigns do. So, they raise a ton of money, and then they figure out how they can work with the candidates as much as they can within the bounds of the law. So there's innovation going on here.
 
The thing that I think is fascinating about this whole Trump scene is that he is both bound by the fact that he has all these legal bills but he is also now in this increasingly non-competitive primary, right? So, he needs to raise a lot of money to pay his legal bills, was anticipating he could continue to be like, hey, we got to win this fight. But now it's like -- it's starting to look like a walk (ph), right? I mean you know, it's not over until it's over. But I think that adds this layer of problem for him that he wasn't anticipating.
 
MATTINGLY:  And that's a great point, because the, super PAC, Errol, was designed and has up to this point to the tune of, I think, $23 million, been their T.V. side spend, right? Like that's how they've been attacking Ron DeSantis to the tune of $20-plus million. Now, they don't feel like they necessarily need to spend, but they would, even if they win the nomination, have a pretty intense and very expensive general election battle ahead.
 
What I can't figure out is, he's going to raise a ton of money no matter what, if he's a nominee. Does this really matter? Is it a tangible cash crunch?
 
ERROL LOUIS, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST:  Oh, no, it absolutely does matter. I mean, there are people who are not necessarily going to write that second or third or fourth check to the extent that this becomes the main issue. You have Will Hurd has sort of kind of put it out there for the whole campaign to sort of look at, which is to say that he's running to stay out of prison. He's raising money to pay his legal bills, that this is a legal case and not necessarily a political campaign. And there may be some people around the margins to say, you know what, maybe I don't necessarily need to write that next check. Maybe I'll send it to my senator. Maybe I'll send it or just sit and wait until the general election.
 <br>[07:15:02]
 
But paying Donald Trump's legal bills is not necessarily going to be a viable strategy. I mean, to the extent that he gets in front of rallies and says, this is all about political persecution, you've got to help me out of this, well, sure, that will make some sense up to a certain point, but the cash crunch is going to continue, for sure.
 
HARLOW:  And, Elie, it's not just if he's indicted in this other federal probe. It's what happens in Georgia, which we'll know in the next month, really, month from today, we should know. What I thought was so interesting, Trump lost in terms of what he wanted, in terms of a dismissal of some evidence, and he wanted Fani Willis gone overseeing the Georgia probe. He lost.
 
And in the ruling from this judge yesterday, the Fulton County Supreme Court judge, Robert McBurney, he wrote something really interesting that ties to the point that Phil and Errol are making. And he said he talked about Trump's efforts to capitalize on these legal woes. And he said, and for some, quote, being the subject of a criminal investigation can, ala-Rumpelstiltskin, be turned into a golden political capital, making it seem more providential and problematic. That was striking.
 
HONIG:  Yes. So, that motion was procedurally and legally flawed. I think I gave it a 0 percent chance of success on this show, which I don't often do. Thankfully, that turned out to be correct. But I'm going to differ with the judge. I'm going to take issue with that statement by the judge.
 
There's nothing illegal about politicizing an indictment. You're actually allowed to do that. You're allowed to fundraise off of I've been indicted and this is unjust.
 
HARLOW:  He's not saying it's illegal but he's pointing it out. That was notable to me.
 
HONIG:  But the judge should not be the police of manners here. The judge should be worried about the law and conflicts of interest. In fact, Fani Willis has fundraised the D.A. off of this case. That is ethically questionable.
 
HARLOW:  And prior when she was running.
 
HONIG:  Yes. She has used subpoenas in this case to say, hey, everyone, I just subpoenaed Lindsey Graham, a Republican senator. Donate to me. I think that's an ethical problem.
 
Donald Trump doing what he's doing is distasteful, is perhaps manipulative, as Errol and Phil pointed out, of people who are donating to him who don't quite realize this money is not going for yard signs. It's going for lawyers to make sure people don't flip. But it's not illegal. And I actually think it's beyond the judge's province to get into that.
 
MATTINGLY:  That's interesting. Another candidate has raised a ton of money and used to be kind of the totem for quick burn rate was Ron DeSantis, to some degree. Now, he gets to say, that guy's spending a lot more than me. But he released his economic plan.
 
You're a fellow nerd, also an Ohio guy, by the way. I'll point that out. The DeSantis economic plan, a lot of it was very kind of well- known, well-trodden path Republican conservative policies, particularly Trump-era Republican policies. There's some stuff on crypto that I thought was actually pretty interesting. The student loan position was kind of interesting. I think what's more interesting is, I don't know that anybody cares.
 
BUMP:  That's right.
 
MATTINGLY:  And I think that, to me, is fascinating to go down this route when you're this far down and clearly need to retool your campaign. Does anybody care? We're showing some of the bullet points on the screen right now about a policy proposal.
 
BUMP:  Yes. No. One of the signal moments in Donald Trump's 2015 when he first announced was he came out, he's on Meet the Press with Chuck Todd in August of that year, and Chuck Todd asked him some question. He's just like, look, I just don't think people care about policy papers. And he's absolutely right. Like most voters don't care about these policy papers.
 
And what's really important about DeSantis doing that yesterday is it came out right after The New York Times/Siena College poll, in which it was very clearly made. Like they ask these questions, like what do you think of these policies, policies that Ron DeSantis had advantage? Everyone is like, yes, we think those are great. And then he's losing by 30 points to Donald Trump, right?
 
And the question that I think really summarizes is that both of them were seen as likable by Republicans, but Donald Trump was seen as fun. He wasn't seen as this kind of nerdy, wonky guy. He's like, Donald Trump, he's going to throw bombs at the opponents and talk and blah, blah, blah, and that's what's winning in this race.
 
HARLOW:  That's really interesting. Just final a word, Errol Louis, because what I just thought of when you said people don't care about policy, they did care on foreign policy when Ron DeSantis submitted that questionnaire to Tucker Carlson about Ukraine. They did care. A lot of Republican voters did care that he didn't seem supportive of continuing funding of Ukraine.
 
LOUIS:  That was extraordinarily over the top. But I think the point is well taken. If Ron DeSantis' argument is essentially Donald Trump never built that wall and made Mexico pay for it, I'll really do it, he missed the entire point, right?
 
The wall was a metaphor. People didn't care whether the wall actually got built. They wanted something done about immigration, and they wanted somebody to talk in a way that was disruptive of the longstanding, three-decade-long inertia on immigration. And that's what Donald Trump delivered. Ron DeSantis is sort of playing the wrong game and not winning at that game.
 
HARLOW:  Thanks, gentlemen, I appreciate it.
 
New overnight. France and Italy now preparing to evacuate their citizens from Niger after a fiery military takeover.
 
And the wife of the suspected Gilgo Beach serial killer now breaking her silence as her husband prepares to face a judge today.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:20:00]
 
MATTINGLY:  Well, this just in. We're now learning that the first flight evacuating French citizens from Niger is, quote airborne. Earlier this morning, France and Italy announced plans to get their nationals out of the West African nations days after the country's president was overthrown by members of his own presidential guard.
 
CNN's Larry Madowo is live for us in Nairobi. Larry, what precipitated the actual evacuation felt like it had been heading in this direction, why now?
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  It had been heading in this direction, Phil, especially after Sunday's protests outside the French Embassy in Niamey, which turned violent, and the French forces had to use tear gas to disperse the citizens that were trying to break into the embassy.
 
They were smashing windows, throwing things into the embassy. And they say because of the situation in Niamey, because of the closure of the airspace, which the military junta did after they deposed President Mohamed Bazoum, and the fact that people cannot find their own means to leave the country, they have to do this.
 
The French foreign minister said there's about several hundred French citizens in the country as well as several hundred European citizens that French forces will be evacuating. They expect this to be over in about 24 hours.
 
And we don't understand if this flight is airborne. Is it leaving Paris, heading to Niger, or has it taken off from Niger, heading back to Paris?
 <br>[07:25:03]
 
We are seeking clarification on that.
 
The situation has escalated pretty quickly, because, overnight, we saw the two neighboring countries of Burkina Faso and Mali say any military intervention in Niger will be equal to an act of war, and they will respond. And the third country, Guinea, will also not be enforcing the ECOWAS sanctions that were announced by the regional bloc there.
 
The thing that these four countries have in common, they all have had recent coups, five coups since 2020. So, that's a big number.
 
I want to play for you some of these statements from the military juntas in these three countries.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
COL. ABDOULAYE MAIGA, SPOKESPERSON, GUINEA MILITARY JUNTA:  Warn that any military intervention against Niger would amount to a declaration of war against Burkina Faso and Mali.
 
RIMTALBA JEAN EMMANUEL OUEDRAOGO, SPOKESMAN, BURKINA FASO MILITARY JUNTA:  The transitional governments of Burkina Faso and Mali invite the living forces to be ready and mobilized to lend a hand to the people of Niger in these dark hours of Pan-Africanism.
 
COL. AMINATA DIALLO, SPOKESWOMAN, GUINEA MILITARY JUNTA:  The brotherly peoples of Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Guinea aspire to more recognition and respect for their sovereignty.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO:  This major anti -western sentiment in not just Niger but across the regions, if this does devolve into a military confrontation, it's going to be even more unsafe there. The U.S. has about 1,000 troops involved in counterterrorism operations training Nigerian forces. So far, Phil, no word on whether American citizens will be evacuated out of Niger.
 
MATTINGLY:  A very fluid situation. Larry Madowo, thanks so much.
 
HARLOW:  This morning in our man in Memphis was shot by a police after attempting to enter a Jewish school and then firing shots outside when he couldn't get in. Police say this suspect fled the scene. They were able to track him down after school officials gave them a photo and a description of the suspect's truck.
 
Congressman Steve Cohen, who represents this area, says his office learned that the shooter is Jewish and a former student of the school. The suspect is in critical condition this morning. Thankfully, no one inside the school was injured.
 
MATTINGLY:  Also today, the suspected Gilgo Beach serial killer is set to appear in court for the first time since he pleaded not guilty to the murders. Rex Heuermann is accused of killing three women in New York over a decade ago and then ditching their bodies in a now famous Long Island beach.
 
Today's court appearance comes after last night, his wife's lawyer told CNN that investigators completely tore up her family's home during their search for evidence.
 
CNN's Brynn Gingras is live in Riverhead, New York, this morning. Brynn, what are we expecting from this hearing today? BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Phil. This is a status conference hearing, the next step in this legal process. So, we're expecting really the attorneys to go back and forth with discussions as far as evidence is concerned, but really no big headlines to come out of it. Just, again, the next step in the process as Heuermann is charged with six charges in relation to the murders of those three women whose bodies were found not far from here more than a decade ago.
 
We're not expecting to hear from Rex Heuermann himself. However, as you said, we did hear from the divorce attorney for his soon to be ex- wife. I want you to hear what he said on CNN last night.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACEDONIO:  It's been extremely overwhelming for her and the children trying to piece life back together or what it was two and a half weeks ago. I don't know if they're going to return to normalcy. But day-by- day, she's getting better. She used to show her strength so that children have something to focus on, a strong focal point of their mom being in charge and everything. And she's getting better each day.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GINGRAS:  And that's Heuermann's soon to be again ex-wife, Asa Ellerup's divorce attorney, saying that her life has really just turned chaotic. Remember, she is not considered a suspect in these cases, but she and her children are going back to their Massapequa Park home. If you remember, police were there for nearly two weeks, really just tearing it apart, trying to find evidence and see if anything could relate to the murders that Heuermann is charged with and possibly other murders that they are still investigating.
 
And they shared pictures with us of what their home looks like now. And they quite literally say that they are trying to piece together their life at this point, trying to take an inventory of what police took from their home, what they left, and sort of get their life back together.
 
As far as her communications with Rex Heuermann, her divorce attorney telling us that they have spoken, but I know from talking to the sheriff's office that she has not visited him behind bars. But her divorce attorney not really giving much insight into what those conversations are.
 
But, again, it does seem like she is just trying to get her life back together at this point and receiving support actually from people who live in that community. And also, we are hearing from her divorce attorney, from the family of other serial killers who have reached out to have been in a similar position as she has, interestingly enough, guys.
 
MATTINGLY:  All right. Brynn Gingras, thank you.
 
HARLOW:  Barbenheimer at it again, helping set another record for theaters. The big, giant movie theater chain AMC had its best week ever, they say.
 <br>[07:30:04]
 
MATTINGLY:  And I ask Poppy every morning, is she feeling lucky?