Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Attacks On Kyiv Continue; Human Rights Groups Say Tehran Is Back On Executing Protesters; Healthcare, Economy And Energy To Be Discussed By Regional Leaders In The South American Summit; U.S. Lawmakers Race Against The Clock To Gain Support In Favor Of The U.S. Debt Ceiling Bill; Opposing Military Factions Agree To Extend Ceasefire In The Sudan Conflict; Uganda Passes The Harshest Anti-LGBTQ Laws; Theranos Founder Begins 11-Year Sentence. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired May 30, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
ZAIN ASHER: Hello, everyone, I'm Zain Asher in New York and this is ONE WORLD. We begin with a swarm of drone strikes on both Kyiv and Moscow. The 
 
 unusual strike in the Russian capital comes as Kremlin forces pound the Ukrainian capital for a third straight day. Russian President Vladimir 
 
 Putin vowed retaliation, although Kyiv has denied direct involvement. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): Kyiv chose the path of intimidation of Russian citizens and attacks on residential 
 
 buildings. It is a clear sign of terrorist activity. The Moscow air defense system worked satisfactorily, however, there is still work to be done to 
 
 make it better. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: As smoke rises over Moscow, its mayor says the drones caused minor damage. At least eight drones were shot down and no one was seriously 
 
 injured. Russia's foreign ministry says it reserves the right to take the most severe measures in response. Meantime, Ukraine says it destroyed 29 of 
 
 the 31 Iranian major drones launched at the capital. One person was killed in the bombardment. The city's mayor calls it terrorism, not war. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VITALI KLITSCHKO, KYIV MAYOR: Actually, in May, we have a lot of attacks to our city, not just to capital of Ukraine, also in other cities, and a lot 
 
 of people killed from Russian terrorists. It's terrorism. It's not a war. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: CNN's Sam Kiley joins us live now from eastern Ukraine. Sam, what's the latest?
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Zain, I mean, the thing here, I think the most dramatic development is this eight-drone 
 
 squadron attack effectively against Moscow. Now, the Ukrainians are denying that they had any, and I quote the presidential adviser saying, direct 
 
 responsibility for this, leaving opportunities for them in the future, perhaps to claim indirect responsibility. 
 
Nobody in Moscow killed by these attacks, but immediately, both the defense minister and then Vladimir Putin himself saying that these were provocative 
 
 in the words of Shoigu, the defense minister, acts of terror, Vladimir Putin said that he feared that there could be -- this was a provocation 
 
 from Ukraine intended to create some kind of escalation and counterattack, which is an extraordinary statement given the daily attack against Ukraine 
 
 from the air by Russia against civilian targets. 
 
And also, we have to bear in mind that this is an advance, Zain, of an anticipated ground offensive on scale by the Ukrainians and should be seen, 
 
 I think, if they were indeed behind these drone attacks inside Russia. We've seen them backing a cross-border raid by Russian dissidents, part of 
 
 the Ukrainian army attacking territory inside Russia. And we've seen increasing attacks by Ukraine behind Russian lines inside Ukrainian 
 
 territory against towns like Mariupol and Berdyansk, particularly the logistics hubs there that support the Russian war effort here in Ukraine. 
 
So, in all of that context, this escalation using drones in Moscow will inevitably be seen in Moscow at the very least as part of the shaping 
 
 operations intended to destabilize and rattle the Russian leadership ahead of a summer campaign by the Ukrainians.
 
ASHER: All right, Sam Kiley, live for us there, thank you so much. This week, trials are being held for two female journalists who reported on the 
 
 death of Mahsa Amini. The two young women -- the young women, rather, who died in police custody in Iran back in September. Her death sparked months 
 
 of massive protests and calls for an end to the country's hardline clerical regime. Iranian intelligence agencies accuse the journalists of colluding 
 
 with hostile powers, charges that could carry the death penalty. 
 
And while the demonstrations in Iran eased, authorities there are not giving an inch to anyone showing dissent. Human rights groups say Tehran 
 
 has begun executing protests once again. Salma Abdelaziz has more. 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Activists and rights groups warn that with the world's attention now turned away more from Iran. 
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
You'll remember the height of demonstrations for Mahsa Amini, a young woman who was killed in police custody, died in police custody rather, after she 
 
 was found to be improperly wearing the hijab. It caused a firestorm of criticism on the ground in Iran where protesters took to the streets. It 
 
 stirred international condemnation now into this year with less attention on Iran. It seems the country, according to rights groups, is quietly 
 
 resuming execution of protesters. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ABDELAZIZ (voice-over): Outside a jail near Tehran, families of prisoners gathered chant, do not hang them. Their pleas come as Iran resumes the 
 
 execution of protesters after a monthslong hiatus. The brutal practice restarted this month with the hanging of three young men accused of killing 
 
 three members of the security forces during anti-government protests in November. 
 
The news sparked more demonstrations but activists in human rights groups say the allegations against the trio are baseless. Majid Kazemi was forced 
 
 to watch video of interrogators torturing his brother, and he was subject to at least 15 mock executions, according to Amnesty International. 
 
In an audio note obtained by the organization, he maintained his innocence. CNN cannot independently verify the clip. They kept beating me and ordering 
 
 me to say this weapon is mine, he says. I told them I would say whatever they wanted, just please leave my family alone. 
 
Before his execution, the family of 36-year-old Salem Merhashami, a karate coach from Esfahan, tried to draw attention to his plight. This picture of 
 
 his father spread on social media. My son is innocent, the sign reads, but to no avail. Activists shared this heartbreaking video, they say, Ismar 
 
 Hashami's dad hugging his picture as he lay by his son's grave. 
 
Iran has not responded to CNN's request for comment. The total number of demonstrators known to have been executed since last year now stands at 
 
 seven, according to CNN reporting. And more executions are likely imminent. Over a hundred protesters have been sentenced to death or are facing 
 
 charges punishable by death, says this human rights activist. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAHMOOD AMIRY-MOGHADDAM, DIRECTOR, IRAN HUMAN RIGHTS NGO: When authorities fear protests or right after protests, number of executions go up. The aim 
 
 is to create fear in the society to prevent more protests. 
 
ABDELAZIZ: Do you expect that the number of executions is going to rise even more this year? 
 
MOGHADDAM: It is rising already, unless the international community takes a strong move against these executions, we might be facing a very large 
 
 number of executions in the coming months.
 
ABDELAZIZ: Rights groups say that Mohammed Rabatlu, a 22-year-old protester with a mental health issue, could be one of the next victims of Iran's 
 
 execution machine. Activists are ringing the alarm. They say yet another Iranian faces death just for daring to speak out. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ABDELAZIZ (on-camera): The number of executions increased between 2021 to 2022 by more than 80 percent, that's according to Amnesty International. 
 
 The group reports that some 570, over 570 people were executed in Iran last year. Many of those, of course, were due to drug-related or violent 
 
 offenses. 
 
But the fear is among rights groups and activists is that number 570, more than 570 people facing the death penalty last year, that number could rise 
 
 even more this year in 2023 if the world doesn't pay attention. Salma Abdelaziz, CNN, London. 
 
ASHER: Leaders from at least 10 South American countries are gathering in Brazil's capital today for the first regional summit in nearly a decade. 
 
 Brazilian President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva organized the meeting in an effort to revive cooperation with his counterparts on everything from 
 
 healthcare to energy. It's also seen as an attempt by President Lula to form a new bloc of nations after the previous organization known as the 
 
 Union of South American Nations fractured back in 2019 amid disagreements over leadership. 
 
Journalist Stefano Pozzebon has been covering the story for us. He joins us live now from Columbia. Stefano, thank you so much for being with us. So, 
 
 this is the first regional summit in about nine years or so. The primary goal here is to sort of reintegrate the bloc with common goals and aligned 
 
 values. Just walk us through that. 
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, JOURNALIST: Yes, exactly. There are two things here to notice, Zain, as I am out of this summit. The first one is that Lula wants 
 
 to send a big message, not just to the rest of South America, but to the rest of the world, that he is back in the international stage. When he used 
 
 to be the president of Brazil between 2002 and 2010, he was the de facto leader of South America. He -- many countries -- he knew that he could 
 
 speak on behalf of many of his regional neighbors. And this meeting is in a sense, it's a way to restart that process. 
 
Brazil is by far the largest economy, the largest country in South America. It's natural that Brazil seeks a leadership role and Lula is trying to show 
 
 the sign that he's back. But it's also another leader who is back and it's the Venezuelan authoritarian leader, Nicolas Maduro, who is participating 
 
 for the first time to a regional summit since 2019, since the big constitutional crisis of 2019 and the cycle of deadly protests in Caracas 
 
 and the rest of the country. 
 
And Lula not only invited Maduro as a sign of pragmatism, but he really had some words that raised some scrutiny around the rest of the region, but of 
 
 course we're very pleasant to hear for Maduro. Take a listen to what Lula said yesterday as he welcomed Maduro to Brasilia. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA, BRAZIIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): It is unexplainable to have a country with 900 sanctions because another country 
 
 doesn't like it. It is unexplainable. I think it is in our hands to build your narrative and to change the game so we can definitively win and so 
 
 Venezuela can go back to being a sovereign country. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
POZZEBON: So, Zain, of course, there's scrutiny because it's not just one country that launched sanctions against Venezuela. Here -- some data, just 
 
 according to the International Criminal Court, which is investigating the government of Nicolas Maduro. They received views from over 8,900 victims, 
 
 630 families, two human rights organizations. 
 
Maduro himself is being questioned for his human rights record, according to the United Nations as of January this year, over 7 million Venezuelans 
 
 are in deep need of humanitarian assistance inside the country. And about the same amount of people, a similar figure is that of Venezuelans who fled 
 
 the country since much before, much earlier than the sanctions were imposed. 
 
So, seeing Lula laying down, literally laying down the red carpet for Nicolas Maduro and welcoming him, not just to the summit but on a state 
 
 visit to Brasilia, has drawn a lot of questions in the region, and also draws questions around the world that because Lula is seeking to present 
 
 himself as a neutral, wise leader on the world stage and that these type of comments maybe don't help. Zain.
 
ASHER: Stefano Pozzebon, live for us there, thank you so much. A crew of three astronauts from China have reached the country's space station after 
 
 this morning's launch. This is China's first space mission with a civilian astronaut on board. He'll manage the science experiments on the station 
 
 during the five-month stay. 
 
Will Ripley joins us live now from Taipei with details. So, Will, this is really part of China's more broad space ambitions. They also plan to launch 
 
 a crewed mission to the moon by 2030, as well. 
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, and you know, some of China's deadlines for their space program actually are earlier than 
 
 the United States or the European Space Agency. And so, China absolutely is now in the space race. And by launching a civilian, not just a civilian, 
 
 but a civilian who wears eyeglasses, which got a lot of notice on Chinese social media, it shows that their space program is really broadening out. 
 
It's no longer a requirement that somebody be a member of the People's Liberation Army, which was one of the reasons that the United States back 
 
 in 2011 decided to discontinue cooperation with the Chinese for NASA, you know, unless the FBI approved it because there were concerns of the 
 
 military connection to China's space program. 
 
So, China has been going at it along with Russia, but primarily going at it on their own, and they're ticking off this list of accomplishments. And so 
 
 now they have, albeit a, you know, three-module versus the 16-module ISS, International Space Station. They have a smaller space station. But it's 
 
 going to be permanently in orbit for at least the next decade China is hoping for with a regular human presence, a consistent human presence in 
 
 space. 
 
And, you know, they're expanding their cooperation with other countries, as well. They've made just in recent years dozens of cooperative agreements in 
 
 the realm of outer space with more than a dozen countries. 
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
And likely that list will grow now that China may actually have a space station that -- that is, you know, in orbit longer than the ISS itself, 
 
 which is due to retire within this decade-long timeframe that China's space station plans to be in low Earth orbit, which is some 400 or so kilometers 
 
 above the surface. 
 
You mentioned about, you know, sending crewed missions to the Moon. They actually want to put up a base at the southern tip of the Moon and from 
 
 there, deploy a telescope that would have 300 times the field of vision of the Hubble telescope. They want to go to Mars. They want to collect samples 
 
 from Mars. And they want to do all of this very competitively with these well-established space programs, even though the United States and Russia 
 
 and some areas are still years ahead of China. They're catching up very quickly, Zain. 
 
And so, obviously, the attention of many Chinese was captivated watching this launch, watching a civilian, a professor of one of the prestigious 
 
 universities in China who will be conducting experiments on the space station for the next five months. But it's really this space race, this 
 
 modern space race, is just now kicking off and it's going to be a pretty heated competition to get all of these various goals, the moon, Mars and 
 
 who knows what else, Zain.
 
ASHER: Who knows what else? All right, we'll wrap it up there. Thank you so much. All right, still to come here on ONE WORLD, it's not a done deal. 
 
 Despite a looming deadline, the U.S. faces massive defaults if the debt limit agreement is not approved. We'll talk about the politics of 
 
 compromise, next. And later, he was the toast of town at Cannes. I'll be speaking to the director of the first Sydney's film ever selected for the 
 
 world-renowned film festival. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: U.S. lawmakers are racing against the clock to shore up support in favor of the U.S. Debt Ceiling Bill. Let's take a closer look at that 
 
 agreement. The White House and Republican leaders hammered out an agreement after weeks of intense negotiations. They reached a deal in principle this 
 
 past Saturday to pay U.S. government's bills, money that has already been spent. The deal would suspend the nation's $31.4 trillion debt limit 
 
 through January 1, 2025, removing it as an issue in the presidential election. It also caps non-defense funding, but the drama is not yet over. 
 
 That was just one step. 
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
A key vote in the powerful House Committee -- House Rules Committee rather, could sink the bill. Some of the bill's loudest conservative critics sit on 
 
 the Rules Committee which holds a hearing in a few hours. 
 
The panel sets the rules before a final vote in the House can even take place. The estimated deadline for possible default is June 5th. Both the 
 
 House and the Senate have to pass the measure. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy says that he's not worried. President Joe Biden says there is no other 
 
 option but for this bill to pass.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: No, I think it would cause more controversy getting rid of the debt limit, although I do -- I am exploring the idea 
 
 that we would, at a later date, a year or two from now, decide whether or not the 14th Amendment -- how that actually would impact on whether or not 
 
 you need to do the debt limit every year. But that's another day. Thank you, all. 
 
UNKNOWN: Mr. President. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Let's bring in Larry Sabato. He's the Director for the Center of Politics at the University of Virginia. Larry, thank you so much for being 
 
 with us. So, does this get through the House Rules Committee, especially given just how many sort of hard right conservatives sit on that committee? 
 
LARRY SABATO, DIRECTOR FOR THE CENTER OF POLITICS, UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA: I think so. I'm not certain of it, but I think it'll pass narrowly, maybe 
 
 by one vote. That gives you a sense of the fact that in American government, even critical matters, even the unthinkable default, is not 
 
 easy to prevent. So, there are just enough Republicans and maybe one member of the ultra conservative freedom caucus that will vote for this to get it 
 
 passed. And that's just the first obstacle. There are quite a few in the House as a whole and then in the Senate, you know, it's not hard for a 
 
 Senator, one Senator, to hold things up. 
 
ASHER: Of course. So, okay, let's assume that you're right, it gets through the House Rules Committee, the next step, the next hurdle obviously is just 
 
 getting it through the House and it passing there. Obviously, Kevin McCarthy is going to need Democrats on board here, but there are several 
 
 prickly issues for Democrats, including reinstating, you know, student loan payments, for example, work requirements for entitlement programs. Are 
 
 there enough progressives that will sort of hold their nose and overlook all that and just vote for the bill anyway? 
 
SABATO: I think so, because they understand that the onus of the disaster that would occur if there is a default would be on the Democrats, on 
 
 President Biden running for reelection and therefore on them, because some of them would be from districts that are vulnerable if a Republican ended 
 
 up winning the competitive district. 
 
So, I think they will. They will grumble and complain loudly, which they have the right to do. And in the end, they will go ahead and support it. 
 
 You know, they need a lot of Republican votes, too. It's -- there are going to be many Democrats who can't -- won't vote for it. There are gonna be 
 
 many Republicans who won't vote for it. So, you put those two groups together and while I think it will pass, I wouldn't be surprised if it were 
 
 reasonably close. 
 
ASHER: Okay, then the next hurdle, of course, the Senate. The Senate isn't necessarily going to be smooth-sailing either. What's ahead for this bill 
 
 in the Senate? 
 
SABATO: You've already had two senators, Mike Lee from Utah and our old pal, Lindsey Graham from South Carolina, say that they're going to do 
 
 everything they can to hold it up, and I guess to cause default, or at least to change the package substantially, at which point it would have to 
 
 go back to the house, and you'd have to recalculate all of that. 
 
I suppose the White House will depend, as always, on the majority leader, Chuck Schumer, and several other Democrats who are superb parliamentarians. 
 
 There are ways to overcome this, but it won't be easy, and senators should plan on working through the weekend as horrible as that may be. 
 
ASHER: Okay. So, just in terms of the timeline here, obviously there are several sort of mini miracles that have to happen in order for it to pass 
 
 every step of the way. At that point, do you think there's enough time? What is it, six days left? Six days left. Do you think there's enough time 
 
 here to get this through? 
 
SABATO: I do. Again, I'm not certain it will, but I think it will, because the stakes are so high. And, you know, there is one fail safe. I don't know 
 
 this, but I suspect that the Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and the other wizards at the Treasury Department will be able to squeeze out an extra day 
 
 or two or three, if they absolutely have to. And they have already put together a plan for stopping payment on the least urgent bills which will 
 
 reduce the drain on the treasury for a few days at least. 
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
So, you know, I wouldn't, I wouldn't run and jump ship immediately if this doesn't pass by Monday. I would jump ship and leave if it didn't pass by 
 
 next Friday, a week from this Friday. 
 
ASHER: So, when you think about the bill in its current form, do you think it really is palatable to both sides? Do you think that both sides can more 
 
 or less sell this as a win to their respective parties? 
 
SABATO: They can sell it as a win to the center, which we used to say in American politics, the center holds. It doesn't anymore. Because in both 
 
 parties, and particularly the Republican Party, you have people at the fringes running in districts where apparently a majority of their primary 
 
 electorates are also at the fringes. They will never compromise. They'll never be happy about this. And if it does go through, guaranteed, there 
 
 will be members of Congress and also many activists in their districts and states that will call for Kevin McCarthy's head. 
 
ASHER: Right, that is the deal that he struck though, giving a lot of power to the House Freedom Court. Larry Sabato, we have to leave it there. Thank 
 
 you so much. We'll see what happens. I'm ready to jump ship by the way, if we don't see a deal by next Friday, as you point out, well past the 
 
 deadline. Larry Sabato there. 
 
All right, just to demonstrate to you how dire the situation is on Capitol Hill from a financial perspective, the latest federal data showed that the 
 
 U.S. Treasury had just $38.8 billion in cash. For context, thirty-one of the world's billionaires are each worth more than the Treasury has as an 
 
 account right now. Some of them are actually worth much more than that. Elon Musk, for example, has $185 billion and Jeff Bezos has $144 billion. 
 
 Context for you. 
 
All right, so to come here, a filmmaker tells a story from the past that also echoes a tragedy happening right now. His story and his award-winning 
 
 film, when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: Hello and welcome back to ONE WORLD. In just a moment, I'll be speaking with a Sudanese filmmaker, Mohamed Kordofani, to discuss his new 
 
 film, which debuted at the Cannes International Film Festival. 
 
First, let's catch up on the headlines. Beijing says Tesla CEO Elon Musk is willing to expand his business in China after meeting with the country's 
 
 foreign minister earlier. China has welcomed Musk and other business figures to its capital, saying, quote, we are happy to see foreign 
 
 companies invest in China. 
 
And U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin is on his way to Japan to meet with the country's prime minister. The Pentagon says it invited China's defense 
 
 minister to meet with Austin in Singapore later this week, but China declined. Austin will also visit India and France before returning home, as 
 
 well. 
 
And NATO says it's deploying additional forces to Kosovo. It comes after at least 30 peacekeepers were injured on Monday in clashes with Serb 
 
 protesters in the northern part of the country. Tensions have been increasing there ever since ethnically Albanian mayor took office in a 
 
 majority sub area last month. 
 
Both sides in Sudan's violent conflict are promising to extend a ceasefire that never really took hold to begin with. U.S. and Saudi mediators say the 
 
 Sudanese army and the RSF paramilitary group have significantly impeded the delivery of humanitarian aid during the week-long truce which is set to 
 
 expire in a matter of hours and right now, time is of the essence. The U.N. warned the situation for children in Sudan has now reached catastrophic 
 
 levels. David McKenzie has more. 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: These are the images coming from Jeddah in Saudi Arabia of the representatives of the 
 
 warring factions of Sudan extending the ceasefire for five days to allow humanitarian aid to get into the country. Now, these talks are brokered by 
 
 the Saudis and the Americans, but even they say that the multiple ceasefires over several weeks have shown no signs of actually holding 
 
 without fighting in many parts of Sudan and the toll is largely on the civilians population in Sudan. 
 
UNICEF, the U.N. children's agency, saying more than 13 million children need desperate life-saving support now in Sudan. And because of the ongoing 
 
 fighting and the lack of a protracted ceasefire, it's very difficult to get that in. Here's the chief spokesperson of UNICEF. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES ELDER, UNICEF SPOKESMAN: On the back of conflict, chaos, neglect, more children today in Sudan require life-saving support than ever before. 
 
 So, we now have a staggering, a sobering 13.6 million children in Sudan who urgently require assistance. And in Darfur, there have been running 
 
 battles, according to witnesses, the Sudan Doctors' Union and others, between civilians who have armed themselves and largely Arab militia. 
 
 That's caused thousands of people to flee over the border into Chad. 
 
There are more than 1.4 million people, according to the U.N. who are displaced in Sudan as we approach seven weeks or into the seventh week of 
 
 this conflict. And there' no sign that despite these talks in Jeddah that there will be a breakthrough and a sustained peace in that country. David 
 
 McKenzie, CNN, Johannesburg. 
 
ASHER: The civil war happening right now in Sudan is echoed in a Sudanese film that highlights the ethnic strife, that plague of the country more 
 
 than a decade ago. "Goodbye, Julia" is the first Sudanese film to ever be shown at the prestigious Cannes Film Festival. Just last week it won the 
 
 festival's Freedom Prize. 
 
"Goodbye, Julia" tells the story of two women, one from southern Sudan and one from the more affluent north. They both become friends after a tragic 
 
 killing that impacts both of their lives. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Time now for the exchange. Joining me live now is the director of that film, "Goodbye, Julia", Mohamed Kordofani. Mohamed, thank you so much 
 
 for being with us. I mean, your film made history, right, in so many ways, but it is the first time you have a Sudanese film shown at the Cannes Film 
 
 Festival, which is huge, but also because you're a first-time film director. 
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
You are largely self-taught. I have no idea how you go from being a self- taught film director to getting a movie into Cannes. But let's talk a bit more about this movie, because it's set in Sudan, obviously, in the run-up 
 
 to the civil war that led to the creation of South Sudan. Do you think that, you know, the fact that we have a conflict right now happening in 
 
 Sudan gave the film that much more emotional relevance, allowed it to resonate at a deeper level with the audience, especially an audience that 
 
 might not know that much about Sudan to begin with. 
 
MOHAMED KORDOFANI, DIRECTOR, "GOODBYE, JULIA": Yes, hi, Zain and thank you for having me. Yes, absolutely. Although the film has been selected and 
 
 announced in Cannes Film Festival a few days before the war, but the war definitely brought more people to watch the film and look at it with a 
 
 different eye. 
 
ASHER: And just in terms of some of the themes of your film, you've talked about the fact that one of the major themes is separation, right? It's the 
 
 separation between characters, separation between communities, and also separation on a macro level, just in terms of the country. It's set in the 
 
 sort of run-up to the Civil War. How does that theme mirror, do you think, what's happening on the ground in Sudan today? 
 
KORDOFANI: When I was writing, in the back of my mind, I've always been scared of another separation that might happen in Sudan. I mean, South 
 
 Sudan in the film is only an example, a sample of what ethnic division can cause. And this problem is still ongoing and still recurrent in Sudan as we 
 
 know it today. So, in the back of my head, I've always been afraid of another separation. And the war that is happening right now might lead to 
 
 that if this war continues. 
 
ASHER: You've said in the past that you, that the people of, that South Sudan essentially had no other choice than to secede, that you supported 
 
 the secession of South Sudan. When you think about what's happening now, there've been so many refugees that initially left South Sudan, just 
 
 because that country's, of course, been through so much in the 10 years that it's existed. 
 
A lot of those people fled to Sudan. Now, they're met with another civil war, they're fleeing back. Even though you supported the secession, it is 
 
 true that the people of South Sudan have been through so much pain and so much strife, especially. 
 
KORDOFANI: Yes, correct. I mean, a few years ago, there was a civil war in South Sudan, and now there's a civil war in Sudan. So, people have been 
 
 going back and forth between Sudan and South Sudan, especially South Sudanese. And God only knows how hard this is because you can never call 
 
 anywhere, a home. Even some of the cast and the crew -- the South Sudanese crew in the film have moved now from Khartoum to South Sudan or the borders 
 
 at least between Sudan and South Sudan and the situation is very difficult for them. 
 
ASHER: What do you want the world to know about Sudan? I mean, much of the world's focus on Sudan is usually when something extraordinarily tragic is 
 
 happening, be it secession, the creation of South Sudan, pro-democracy protests, and of course the civil war that's happening right now. But 
 
 there's so much nuance, right, Mohamed? There's so much complexity and so much resilience in terms of the sort of soul of the people who live there. 
 
 What do you want the world to really know about Sudan through this film? 
 
KORDOFANI: In the first place, I think my audience, when I was writing, have always been the Sudanese people themselves. Writing this film, the 
 
 thing I've been thinking about is reconciliation. I think we need reconciliation in Sudan. We need to build a new national identity that is 
 
 proud of values other than tribe, race, gender, religion, things that really separate people rather than bring them together. 
 
But for international audiences, as well, I think when you watch "Goodbye Julia", it allows you to look at what is happening with a different lens. 
 
 It allows you to look inside these burning homes beyond the smoke and see people. 
 <br>[12:40:00]
 
In the film, I think I've empathized with all the characters, North and South. And I think for audience, if they can walk out of the film thinking 
 
 that these are just humans, they do bad things, but they're not necessarily bad people. That is enough for me. It's just the ability to understand and 
 
 empathize with the other. 
 
ASHER: And final question. I mean, you mentioned that, you know, when you wrote this film, your primary audience that you had in mind was the 
 
 Sudanese people. I mean, given what's happening on the ground there right now, do you think that it will premiere in Sudan anytime soon? I mean, 
 
 what's your hope on that front? 
 
KORDOFANI: Unfortunately, I don't think the war will stop, although I hope so. But if the shooting stops, I will be the first one to go back to Sudan 
 
 and just screen the film in any possible way, even in a rudimentary way. If I can just paint a wall white and bring a projector and a few speakers and 
 
 just screen the film in different cities around Sudan, I will be more than happy to do so. 
 
ASHER: Yeah, let's hope the fighting -- let's hope the fighting stops soon. I mean, we've had so many ceasefires, but none of them seem to obviously be 
 
 holding. And obviously, congratulations on your success here. Not just because your film is the first Sudanese film to premiere at Cannes, but 
 
 most importantly, I think what surprised me was really just the fact that you're a first-time director and you've had no formal training, you 
 
 literally taught yourself. 
 
That is inspiring, if nothing else. Mohamed Kordofani, live for us there, thank you so much. All right, still to come here, brutally murdered in 
 
 broad daylight. Video of a shocking crime has gone viral. A teenager in India is stabbed and bludgeoned to death as people walk by without helping. 
 
 Let's do that next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
ASHER: International condemnation is pouring into Uganda after the president signed into law one of the harshest anti-LGBTQ laws in the world. 
 
 The measure passed earlier this month then signed on Monday includes the death penalty for aggravated homosexuality, 20 years in prison for 
 
 promoting homosexuality, and it criminalizes sex education for the gay community. 
 
In reaction, the U.S. is considering sanctions and restricted entry for some Ugandan officials. President Joe Biden calls it a tragic violation of 
 
 universal human rights. British and E.U. leaders have also condemned the law calling it deplorable.
 
Police are calling it a crime of passion, but even a nation that has long struggled with gender violence and brutality, the gruesome murder of a 
 
 teenage girl is sparking renewed outrage. Deadly attack in broad daylight caught on video shows multiple people walking by. Authorities say a man is 
 
 under arrest. Vedika Sud has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Surveillance video catches a Delhi street quarter to nine, Sunday evening. What the man in blue is about 
 
 to do is too violent to be shown. In the next moments, a 16-year-old girl's life is taken, stabbed and bludgeoned with a rock against the wall of a 
 
 house. Witnesses pass by, but no one intervenes. 
 
SUD (on-camera): Violence against women is so pervasive in India that a young girl can be stabbed in public in a busy neighborhood against the wall 
 
 of a home The killing of this teenage girl is the latest in a long line of violent crimes against women in India. This time it's on film shared 
 
 rapidly online and it has gripped the nation.
 
The man in blue has been arrested for the murder and named by police simply as Sahil. Police say the two were in a relationship and had an argument 
 
 shortly before the killing. The family pleading for justice. Even as across India demands grow to do more to protect women and punish their male 
 
 attackers. But public anger is no comfort to a family stricken by grief at the loss of their child. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): I feel lifeless. I miss her so much. She was such a good child. What to do? 
 
SUD (voice-over): Her mother inconsolable as her daughter was cremated Monday. 
 
UNKNOWN (through translator): She went to the bazaar to buy some things and then went to celebrate a friend's birthday. She had gone to buy some new 
 
 sandals for the birthday. The sandals are now at the police station. Life continues in this poor neighborhood in northwest Delhi. Investigators have 
 
 marked a small cross in the place where the young girl was killed. One more place where women aren't safe from men. Vedika Sud, CNN, New Delhi. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: All right, coming up from big tech icon to fraud conviction, how the founder of a company once worth billions of dollars is ending up behind 
 
 bars. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: Welcome back. A violent storm threatened a cruise liner over the weekend. If you're prone to seasickness, just to warn you, look away now. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Incredible waves. This was the view from the ship on Friday night. The passenger recorded intense wind and waves buffeting the Carnival 
 
 Sunshine. And this was the aftermath. Flooding and debris in the hallways, what a mess. The storm delayed the ship's return to the port in Charleston, 
 
 South Carolina. The company says it's already on its next cruise. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: All right. She once owned a company worth $9 billion. Now, she's going to prison. Elizabeth Holmes is expected to arrive here at a Texas 
 
 prison to begin an 11-year sentence. Last November, she was convicted on multiple charges of defrauding investors while running the tech Start-up 
 
 Theranos. Rosa Flores looks at how Holmes ended up here. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE))
 
ELIZABETH HOLMES, CEO THERANOS: I believe the individual is the answer to the challenges of healthcare. 
 
ROSA FLORES (voice-over): Elizabeth Holmes, the disgraced founder of Theranos, is set to trade in her trademark black turtlenecks for a prison 
 
 jumpsuit after multiple failed appeals to keep her out of prison. Holmes, now a mother of two, is set to report to the federal prison camp in Bryan, 
 
 Texas, today. The minimum security women's prison is approximately 100 miles from Houston, Texas, and houses more than 600 inmates, according to 
 
 the Federal Bureau of Prisons. 
 
HOLMES: The right to protect the health and well-being of every person of those we love is a basic human right. 
 
FLORES (voice-over): Holmes was only 19 years old when she dropped out of Stanford University to pursue her Startup Theranos, full-time. Once valued 
 
 at nine billion dollars at its peak, Theranos attracted an impressive list of investors and retail partners with claims that it had developed 
 
 technology to test for a wide range of medical conditions using just a few drops of blood. 
 
HOLMES: So, this is the little tubes that we collect the samples in. We call them the nanotainer. They're about this big. 
 
FLORES: Holmes appearing on magazine covers and was hailed as the next Steve Jobs. 
 
HOLMES: I've always believed that the purpose of building a business is to make an impact in the world. 
 
FLORES: The company began to unravel after a Wall Street Journal investigation in 2015 reported that Theranos had only ever performed 
 
 roughly a dozen of the hundreds of tests it offered using its proprietary technology and with questionable accuracy. Investors and retail partners 
 
 backed out and in June of 2018, Holmes pleaded not guilty. Ultimately, she was indicted for fraud before being convicted last year. Her rise and fall 
 
 depicted in the hit Hulu show, "The Dropout". 
 
Despite her conviction, Holmes told "The New York Times" that she plans to work on health care related inventions behind bars. Quote, I still dream 
 
 about being able to contribute in that space. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Our Rosa Flores, reporting there. A U.N. committee met on Monday in Paris with the hopes of devising a landmark treaty to end global plastic 
 
 pollution. The treaty, which involves 50 countries, would be the first international legally-binding treaty on plastic waste. The meeting also 
 
 included NGOs and members of the plastic industry as well. The debate is centered around countries who want to limit the production of more plastics 
 
 and the PET chemical industry which favors plastic recycling as the solution to plastic waste. The head of the U.N. Environment Program says 
 
 that the standards in place now are not enough.
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
INGER ANDERSON, U.N. ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: Current commitments will only reduce plastic pollution by eight percent by 2040. 
 
 So, the tap is still wide-open. And this agreement could be, must be, shall be the tool that the world uses to close that tap. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Negotiations are expected to be completed by the end of 2024. A Beluga whale known as an alleged Russian spy has moved into Swedish waters. 
 
 That's according to the organization, OneWhale has spent four years near the coast of Norway. The animal became famous in 2019 when it was spotted 
 
 wearing a harness with mounts for a camera. Experts believe it may have actually been trained by the Russian military. Spy or not, Sweden has 
 
 closed the bridge in order to protect the whale. 
 
All right, thank you so much for watching ONE WORLD. I'm Zain Asher. Amanpour is up next and you're watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END