Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Palestinian Teen Killed By Israeli Forces In West Bank; Israeli's National Security Minister Joins Settlers For Rally; U.S. In Damage Control Mode After Classified Info Leaks. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired April 10, 2023 - 10:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:00:31]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: I'm Becky Anderson live from Abu Dhabi with the time is 6:00 in the evening. This is CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
 Coming up this hour.
 
A Palestinian boy killed by Israeli forces in a West Bank refugee camp.
 
Leaked Pentagon documents reveal U.S. intelligence secrets.
 
A deadly Easter Sunday attack in Zaporizhzhia.
 
And later this hour, 2 John Rahm takes the Masters by storm.
 
We begin with more on a Palestinian teenager shot and killed by Israeli forces. That is according to Palestinian health officials. Israeli military 
 
 confirms they were operating in one refugee camp in the occupied West Bank earlier and say they opened fire after they were targeted with Molotov 
 
 cocktails. This is footage of that rate obtained by CNN. Well, Salma Abdelaziz is standing by in Jerusalem for you. And CNN's Scott McLean is 
 
 standing by in the Lebanese capital of Beirut.
 
Selma, let me start with you. A relatively quiet weekend given the recent violence but the death of a Palestinian teenager and the mother of British 
 
 Israeli sisters killed in a West Bank shooting has also died of injuries. What are the details as we understand?
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Let's go straight to the West Bank, Becky, where there seem to be events taking place today. You had -- 
 
 earlier this morning, Israeli police saying that they raided a Palestinian refugee camp in the occupied West Bank. They say that -- Israeli police say 
 
 the Israeli military says it raided that camp because they were seeking to arrest a terror suspect.
 
The Israeli military says during the course of that raid, that Molotov cocktails, explosive devices were thrown out their soldiers and that they 
 
 responded with fire separately. The Palestinian health ministry said that a 15-year-old boy was injured in those -- rather killed in those clashes and 
 
 several others injured. Those clashes happening almost at the same time that very close by also in the occupied West Bank.
 
Thousands of settlers were gathered at an illegal outpost. An illegal outpost again in the occupied West Bank that they want to see legalized. In 
 
 that group, those thousands of settlers were emboldened really by what is now under Prime Minister Netanyahu, the most far-right government that this 
 
 in Israeli history. And they were also emboldened, Becky, by the people that stood in their ranks.
 
But the people that joined that rally, members of Prime Minister Netanyahu's government including, of course, the far-right National 
 
 Security Minister, Ben-Gvir. A man who is extremely controversial to some absolutely inflammatory. A man who was convicted of supporting terrorism. 
 
 He was among the crowd of those thousands of settlers, obviously supporting their calls for that illegal outpost to be legalized.
 
And all of this, of course, in the wider context of what's been taking place over the last several days. These escalating tensions, this mounting 
 
 violence and of course, rhetoric like this, feeds and fuels the fire of this conflict lately. And of course, I also have to mention two separate 
 
 incidences, two separate funerals rather taking place in the West Bank, as well. One for a Palestinian man that was killed.
 
Israeli -- the Israeli military says that he was shot during an incident in the West Bank after they were fired upon. Also separately, you mentioned 
 
 the funeral for that mother -- for the two sisters, their mother now declared dead as well. Again, so much at play here. And all of these 
 
 factors continue to feed, continue to fuel this escalating violence, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Absolutely. Let me bring you in Scott at this point. Because of course over the past week, we've seen dozens of rockets launch from Lebanon 
 
 from Gaza, and from Syria and retaliation from Israel. Just get us up to speed. Where are we at at this point?
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So, Becky, first here in Lebanon, things are calm for the moment after this sort of back-and-forth tit for 
 
 tat that we saw late last week. The largest barrage of rockets coming from Lebanon to Israel since 2006 certainly had the potential to escalate into 
 
 something more.
 <br>[10:05:01]
 
No one has claimed responsibility for those rockets. Not yet. Not Hezbollah, the Lebanese militant group, not Hamas, the Palestinian link 
 
 militant group, the Israelis, the Lebanese government. They are blaming Palestinian militant groups but not more specific than that. Now, the 
 
 leadership of Hezbollah and Hamas actually said that they just wrapped up meetings here in Beirut that finished yesterday.
 
And while they obviously discussed the situation in Jerusalem. They gave no indication that they're going to be supportive or encouraging of anyone 
 
 launching any further attacks on Israel. Israel has already indicated that look, if -- unless there's more rocket fires coming from Lebanese 
 
 territory, this in their mind is over. What there is expected to be as protests on Friday here in Lebanon in solidarity with Palestinians.
 
The Israeli strikes that we did see come down in this country had largely open areas, we went out to those areas in southern Lebanon. We're talking 
 
 about pretty open fields and things like that. And while there was obviously huge craters, noticeable damage, no one was killed. And the 
 
 people that we met there suggested that perhaps this was not meant to do serious damage to Lebanon or militant groups here but more intended to send 
 
 a message.
 
Obviously, we've also seen rockets fired out of Syria. Six of them in total, one of them came down in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights. And 
 
 other one was shot down over Jordan actually. This led to Israeli counter strikes first with drones targeting the sites where those rockets were 
 
 fired from the Israeli say and then Israeli airstrikes targeting the Syrian military. Now, the Al-Aqsa Mosque complex and what's happened there with 
 
 the raids very likely inspired the rocket fire coming from Lebanon and from Gaza.
 
But in Syria, things are a bit more complicated. And that is because there has been an increasing number of Israeli strikes on Syrian territory 
 
 officially to target the growing influence of Iran and to prevent Iran from transferring weapons to Israelis enemy -- Israeli enemies. In fact, it was 
 
 just a week ago that Iranian state media acknowledged that two Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps officers had been killed in Syria in Israeli 
 
 strikes.
 
Now in this latest case, the Israelis struck back against the Syrian military because they say that look, Syria, the state is responsible for 
 
 rockets coming from their territory. And they've taken a similar stance when it comes to Hezbollah and the Lebanese state. But obviously, we have 
 
 seen a very different response in this country. A much more contained tit for tat that at least thus far, hasn't managed to inflame tensions or 
 
 escalate the situation, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Scott's in Beirut for you. Salma is in Jerusalem. To both of you for the time being. Thank you very much indeed.
 
And in the next hour of CONNECT THE WORLD, I'll be speaking live to Israel's economy minister Nir Barkat. And asking him about the Bank of 
 
 Israel's warning that the country's recent political turmoil could seriously damage the economy. That is coming up next hour here on CONNECT 
 
 THE WORLD.
 
Well, lead to documents. Fallout among allies and a risk that the war in Ukraine could be directly impacted. The U.S. is in full damage control mode 
 
 after highly classified intelligence made its way onto social media. South Korea says it will hold necessary discussions with the U.S. after the 
 
 documents reveal a conversation between two senior South Korean national security officials. Natasha Bertrand has more on reaction from the 
 
 Pentagon. Natasha.
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, Becky. So, the Pentagon obviously taking this very seriously. They referred the matter to the 
 
 Justice Department which is now conducting a criminal investigation. But look, these documents are extremely sensitive, and they have been sitting 
 
 on a social media platform called Discord for at least a month before anyone noticed them.
 
And some of these documents are marked top secret which is the highest classification level in the U.S. government. And they offer information not 
 
 only about how the U.S. is eavesdropping on allies which is largely to be expected. Allies, including South Korea, Israel, and even Ukraine, but also 
 
 the information that it has on their enemies, including the Russian Defense Ministry, of course, and the Russian mercenary organization, Wagner Group.
 
There's a lot in here about sources and methods really sensitive information that the U.S. likely does not want the Russians to know 
 
 including documents that say that they're sourced to human intelligence. Human sources that could now be put at risk because these documents have 
 
 been exposed online. Now a lot of the other information comes from signals intelligence according to these documents which involves intercepted 
 
 communications.
 
So, essentially, the U.S. has managed to effectively intercept communications that are going on within the Russian Defense Ministry 
 
 between that mercenary group Wagner Group and Russian defense officials to get a really, really close look and a very precise look at just how the 
 
 Russians have been deciding where to target and what inside Ukraine. So very valuable information of course for the U.S. and for Ukraine.
 
But also, it raises the fear obviously now that the Russians are going to cut off those sources of information.
 <br>[10:10:08]
 
So, a lot of questions moving forward here about how they're going to contain the damage and the fallout from this very massive leak, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Natasha, thank you. Natasha is at the Pentagon for you with the very latest.
 
Well, at least two people were killed over the weekend in Russian strikes on the Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia. Ukrainian police say two rockets 
 
 struck a residential area killing a 50-year-old man and his 11-year-old daughter. Well, a Ukrainian military official says that Russian rockets and 
 
 shelling also targeted more than 15 other settlements in the south eastern region.
 
Nick Paton Walsh joining us live from the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv. Nick, what more do we have at this point?
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Part of the continuing pattern of strikes that we've seen, some say perhaps a times 
 
 a lesser tempo than over past months, but continually it seems Russian munitions hitting civilian targets here. Slow drip of this awful news, 
 
 frankly, for Ukrainians, tragically commonplace. And I think there's a lot of focus now, certainly here about the impact of the leaks, you were just 
 
 talking to Natasha about a lot of which details specifics about Ukraine's capabilities ahead of a counter offensive, which has been long anticipated.
 
Essentially, a fulcrum moment really for this conflict in which Western backers I'm sure would want to see Kyiv make significant gains against 
 
 Russia. And so, there is -- I think it's fair to say with all the focus around Bakhmut and parts of the East alone on other parts of the front 
 
 lines. Outside of those awful attacks on civilians that we have indeed continued to see hitting residential blocks.
 
Increasing anticipation though as to when this counter offensive may indeed begin. And the significant drop of this leak of documents. How authentic 
 
 they are, quite how long they've been available. Still things that have yet to be entirely clarify. But certainly, provoking a very full throated, very 
 
 vocal, rare, frankly, open statements of alarm from U.S. officials about how important they necessarily are.
 
Now they show as Natasha said exactly how much U.S. knows about Russians own capabilities, Russia's own conversations amongst its more confidential 
 
 circles. That's bound to cause great consternation, certainly in Moscow, who will have known that the U.S. can eavesdrop on them at will to some 
 
 degree but maybe not the extent of information that the team seems to casually hear to have found leaked at some point.
 
So, Ukrainian officials today clear that some of their plans may have been tweaked because of this leak, suggesting again that Russian officials have 
 
 reposted some of these documents, now doctored and changed to tweak the information they're in. Increasingly confusing, frankly, to understand how 
 
 these may indeed have emerged. It doesn't seem to be a Russian intelligence operation. Why would you post them online?
 
U.S. officials, they say, very forthright in saying how damaging they are which to some degree is odd. You might expect them to play them down or say 
 
 they were sophisticated fakes. Quite the opposite is the signal indeed we're having. So, a lot of anticipation heightened by them by what they say 
 
 Ukraine can and cannot do. The timings potentially of how long Ukraine's air defenses may be able to last out.
 
All of this feeding in to a climate here of real concerns as to when this offensive may begin or whether or not this leak will change is potential 
 
 outcome for those hearing Kyiv. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Nick Paton Walsh in Kyiv in Ukraine.
 
We're going to take a very short break at this point. Back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:16:01]
 
ANDERSON: All right. Welcome back. I do want to get to some breaking news out of Louisville, Kentucky in the United States. Police are on the scene 
 
 of what is a mass shooting there. These are the images coming in to CNN as we speak. It's 10:15 in the morning there. At least six people have been 
 
 wounded including one police officer. We are on the ground working our sources and as we get more on this story, of course. We will get it to you 
 
 directly. Do stay with us for that.
 
Artificial intelligence has been top of the global agenda this year. Sparking discussions ranging from education to health to art. Let's take a 
 
 quick look at some of its most notable strides in 2022. I want to do a deep dive on this. Deep fake technology. So, a jaw dropping leap forward, yet 
 
 eerie leap forward. It has to be said with a number of photos like this one depicting a rather swagged out Pope.
 
It also reached new heights in the world of art after an image generated by the system mid-journey scored first place in a Colorado State Fair fine 
 
 arts competition. It proved to be quite a lab assistant after successfully training a reinforcement learning agent to control nuclear fusion, plasma 
 
 and innate brain twisting development. Nvidia used A.I. systems to prove its latest GPU chips. An essential element to training and testing A.I. 
 
 systems.
 
In the heat of all of this, rapid development. The other side of the coin is starting to flip questions on ethics, on bias and dangers of A.I. are 
 
 being raised. Concerns reaching a boiling point. Tech leaders like Bill Gates, Elon Musk are calling for a pause in the out of control, in their 
 
 words not mine. A.I. race. Well, Eric Xing, president of the Mohammed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence joins me now live here in our 
 
 studio.
 
Decked out with A.I. generated art, Eric. I hope you are enjoying what you see around you. Let's start with this recent letter calling for a pause in 
 
 A.I. development. Some of the biggest names in tech are calling for A.I. labs to stop their -- the training of powerful systems for at least six 
 
 months. They are citing profound risks to society and humanity. Profound risks to society and humanity. That is a very, very, very big allegation. 
 
 What's your perspective? Do you agree with that?
 
ERIC XANG, PRESIDENT, MOHAMED BIN ZAYED UNIVERSITY OF ARTIFICAL INTELLIGENCE: I can only say I agree in partially. I saw many of the names 
 
 of my colleagues there. But also, I see many names of my colleagues, not there. I think, you know, people on both sides calling for regulation. 
 
 Suspension or advocating that are trying to say the same thing, which is A.I. is switching to a point that it requires, you know, people's attention 
 
 and the government's attention in terms of mitigating and managing the consequences at risk. But people disagree on the methodology and approach.
 
ANDERSON: Well, let's talk about that. Because the UAE is a country that really had some first mover advantage, certainly very visibly in the world 
 
 of A.I. Be at the university that you teach in or its integration across government bodies and policies. How do you see A.I. playing a role in 
 
 government? And should it be government? And I've listened to Sam Altman from OpenAI, one of the tech titans who can really make an enormous amount 
 
 of money out of A.I.
 
Talking about the importance of government regulation at this point and where to draw and -- draw the line under its development. What's your 
 
 perspective?
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
XANG: Yes. Indeed. I think that let her stop shot to making the clarity of the difference between basic R&amp;D and also the application accessibility of 
 
 the product of R&amp;D. I think what should be regulated and managed is a how technology disseminated through society. How people should be using that, 
 
 and the what kind of a risk management should be in place. But in terms of fundamental research itself, that's a different matter, right?
 
People and scientists have this intrinsic nature of curiosity and discovery. And that shouldn't be discouraged. And also, it is not stoppable 
 
 for (INAUDIBLE) anyway.
 
ANDERSON: It is worrying, isn't it? You hear this great debate going on now about A.I. for good. And let's be quite clear. There are some enormous 
 
 opportunities around A.I., not least in the healthcare system for example. But then the weaponization of this technology, that's the worry, isn't it? 
 
 The idea that this is technology, that unregulated, owned by what we might describe as bad guys is really the big threat too. As many of these big 
 
 tech titans will say, that's a big threat to society and humanity.
 
XANG: I want to maybe speak a little bit more on this as a scientist. I think the power and capability of A.I. might be a little bit exaggerated at 
 
 this point. It's because the first time we see it, for example, if you are putting behind the scenes to see how calculators are doing the algebra, it 
 
 is amazing. It is something that people cannot do, right? You may view it's very smart. But if I'm Photo Story to you, you actually know that it is 
 
 doing only that but nothing else.
 
So ChatGPT and the big language models are very good at doing something which are very defined knowledge base, the extraction and the question 
 
 answering but they --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ANDERSON: They're quite only search system effectively. Aren't they?
 
XANG: (INAUDIBLE) basic, the vast amount of lingo knowledge that is written in text or maybe in conversation. But human knowledge and the creativity 
 
 and the many decision-making process based on a more holistic body of information, that is not available to ChatGPT yet.
 
ANDERSON: A Stanford U.I. Index report found that benchmark saturation. Let me just explain what that this means. Which is what a benchmark become too 
 
 easy for an A.I. system is being reached at increasing speeds. I mean, this is sort of high-level stuff. The reason I get you on tonight is that, you 
 
 know, you are steeped in this stuff. Could A.I. be developing at a rate faster than we can test it? And if so, just how worrying is that?
 
XANG: A.I. can definitely lead to various different directions and it could move even faster if the right benchmark is in place. I think right now, 
 
 indeed, there's a limitation of the benchmark being limited to very knowledge intensive. And the information retrieval intensive type of task. 
 
 But in terms of creativity, theoretician of information, definition of problems and discovery of tools. I don't think there are benchmarks there 
 
 or too many out there to really set a go up or try to -- try to pass.
 
I actually would be very, very excited to see there are other opportunities open to the foundation model technology that is behind ChatGPT. For 
 
 example, in drug design, in climate modeling and in energy control, there are applications where indeed, human intelligence and human capability are 
 
 not yet able to, you know, you know, deal with a competitor problem.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ANDERSON: So that's where you see the opportunity for good. That's where you see the enhanced opportunity. Yeah?
 
XANG: It is a much, much, you know, stronger plus side of this technology.
 
ANDERSON: The artificial intelligence market, as I understand it is set to reach nearly $2 billion in 2026. I have to say, I wonder whether it isn't 
 
 going to be greater than that.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ANDERSON: Right. But I thought that you'd say that to me. In the UAE alone, this is what I'm talking about. $2 billion -- $2 billion by 2026. In the 
 
 UAE alone, it's been an early adopter of the technology. It is really helping to drive the industry forward. Before I let you go, given that this 
 
 is your patch these days. this is the first place to have an A.I. minister as I say, one of the first places that I was -- I noticed that A.I. was 
 
 being embedded across all departments.
 
It was fascinating to watch its emergence visibly. Tell us a little bit about the UAE being that early adopter and where you see those 
 
 opportunities for this country?
 
XANG: I think these opportunities will be all very rewarding in the -- in the long run because the UAE is among the fewer early nations to really 
 
 embrace A.I. to see beyond, you know, few so energy driven economy to move it into knowledge driven economy and A.I. is the driving force.
 <br>[10:25:06]
 
Being in the game and developing domestic capability of doing basic R&amp;D is really putting your UAE into the game. Maybe to have a upper hand position 
 
 in the global competition. And also, don't forget about the importance of having the culture of STEM and R&amp;D in any country.
 
ANDERSON: So, what sort of discussions are going on at that regulation here briefly?
 
XANG: As a university in a way, we're actively playing our role as a think tank to help our government officials and stakeholders to understand the 
 
 implication of A.I. in terms of the technological nuances behind it, the risk and also the potential. And that's where we see the university play 
 
 the best role in influencing the decision makers.
 
ANDERSON: Fascinating. It's good to have you on. Stay in touch. I mean, this is a subject which is just only going to become more important to 
 
 discuss as we move forward. You are well placed to help us out with that. Eric, thank you very much.
 
XANG: Thank you for having me here.
 
ANDERSON: Indeed. You are watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me. Becky Anderson live from our regional Middle East programming hub here in Abu 
 
 Dhabi in the UAE.
 
Ahead on this show. Northern Ireland marks the 25th anniversary of what was known or is known as the Good Friday Agreement which ended decades of 
 
 violence. What has changed there in the years since and what hasn't. More on that after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.
 
ANDERSON: Well, these are live pictures coming into CNN Center. At least five people have been killed in a shooting in the U.S. state of Kentucky. 
 
 And this is the scene in Louisville. Police say they responded to an active aggressor as they described it in downtown Louisville. We are hearing that 
 
 the government is down and that the event as far as authorities are concerned is over. At least one officer was wounded in the confrontation.
 
Omar Jimenez is monitoring the scene following this from New York for you. Omar, what more do we have at this point?
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. At this point, you gave the latest update that we found which was the five that had been killed but we also 
 
 know six others have been transported to the hospital with injuries of varying degrees that we do not know. One of those including the law 
 
 enforcement officer that sustained various injuries. That's how it's been discussed to us right now.
 <br>[10:30:02]
 
Now, the shooter is confirmed to be dead according to law enforcement. Though the circumstances of that death are still unknown at this point. 
 
 Now, as far as for what happened, this is in the city of Louisville and Kentucky. And this seems to be centered on a bank there in the downtown 
 
 part of the city. And we know that in part, not just from the aerial images we've been showing in the law enforcement response, but we're also hearing 
 
 from a man who was nearby trying to call -- speaking to his wife who is locked inside of a vault inside of this bank to protect herself.
 
We don't know if it was just her for others, but she had known that there was an active shooter going on at that moment. So, he feels this call, 
 
 she's telling him to call the authorities. By the time he got the authorities on the line, they said they were already aware of the incident. 
 
 And we've now seen the amount of law enforcement response that was at multiple jurisdictions with the local level at the federal level as well.
 
The governor of the state also now heading to the scene. This was the situation they seem to get contained to this particular area. Did not seem 
 
 to spill out into the rest of the city, thankfully, but we still don't know all of the details over what's been a pretty quickly moving story or even 
 
 just the past hour. But their main headline right now is that five people, unfortunately, had been confirmed killed by authorities.
 
Others taken to the hospital, again, conditions we do not know. But oftentimes, sadly, when we're in the early stages of reporting, mass 
 
 shootings that we see, unfortunately, too often across the United States is that in the early stages, those numbers do tend to rise compared to what we 
 
 ended up seeing later down the line once more details are confirmed. So, we're hoping this is an exception. But right now, it's spilled from 
 
 casualty into fatalities, and of course, tragedy.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. And Omar, let's just be quite clear about the issue. Describe what we know, at this point. What we don't know is motive, who the 
 
 shooter was. I mean, what will authorities be doing now? Just remind us.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes. As of -- as of now, you know, it's one thing to secure the actual scene itself to make sure that the active aggressor as they've 
 
 described an active shooter is no longer a threat to the rest of the surrounding area. But now comes, OK, who was this person? What was the 
 
 motivation here? Was this someone who was trying to settle a personal dispute? Was this someone who was a former employee? Was this someone who 
 
 just had rage in his or her heart. 
 
And so, I think, at this point, this is something that they really are going to piece through to try and find any sort of motivation here. And 
 
 another key detail that we don't know as well as how this dispute ended which also may give clues to this person's state of mind, to how this 
 
 person intended to exit this situation. So, that will also be a key detail. And we're awaiting more from please. And they do expect to give an update 
 
 in just about an hour or so.
 
Or maybe we might get some of -- at least the preliminary information as to why this person may have ended up here or decided to show up here in the 
 
 first place. But of course, you hit the nail right on the head. Those are the details that are going to at least provide people some sense as to why 
 
 this senseless tragedy unfolded. But it's still in the end, maybe little comfort to those who have lost their loved ones here today, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: And as I understand that, we will hear from local police, local authorities in the next hour or so. Of course, as we get more details, 
 
 viewers, you will get it here on CNN. Omar, thank you.
 
Northern Ireland is marking the anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement that ended three decades of sectarian violence. 25 years ago, today, the 
 
 Prime Ministers of Britain and Ireland along with the leaders of Northern Ireland's main political parties signed the Accord which the U.S. helped 
 
 broke up. Thousands of people had been killed in the years prior in clashes between pro-unionist and pro-nationalist groups known as The Troubles.
 
Well, the decades following the Good Friday Agreement have been largely peaceful but beneath the surface divisions do remain and as Nic Robertson 
 
 now tells us, those divisions aren't real.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice over): Erin McArdle is a peace baby. The first Catholic born minutes after Northern 
 
 Ireland's 1998 Good Friday peace agreement was signed.
 
ERIN MCARDLE, NORTHERN IRISH PEACE BABY: (INAUDIBLE) is really special. It's something that I'm very proud of. 
 
ROBERTSON: Putting an end to decades of bloodshed. Her mother hoping Erin wouldn't face the dangers known as The Troubles as she did.
 <br>[10:35:06]
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We were still very skeptical, will this work? 
 
MCARDLE: They always stayed about home just because of the bombings and the shootings and that. So, I think yes, for me personally, the Good Friday 
 
 Agreement has made my life very happy and very safe.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): This is where the deal was signed. I was outside that night. The ground was freezing underfoot that inside here the mood 
 
 thought. Former U.S. Senator George Mitchell sent over by President Bill Clinton did what had been impossible for 30 years with more than 3000 lives 
 
 lost. He negotiated a peaceful end to the sectarian bloodletting.
 
So, what does it mean to you that your father used to paint murals like these here?
 
JOEL KEYS, POLITICAL ACTIVIST: I think it's great to get kind of in a way let some love forever. 
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): Joel Keys is another peace baby, a Protestant.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): Has the Good Friday Belfast agreement delivered for you?
 
KEYS: I don't think so. What the Good Friday Agreement did was took away the bombs and bullets but it had nothing they address people's mindsets.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): Despite helping the economy, the Good Friday Peace Agreement has so far struggled to shift historic divisions. Protestant, 
 
 tending to be pro-British and some Catholic's aspirations for united island.
 
KEYS: What peace Canada looks like nowadays is, oh, I'm a Protestant. I've got Catholic friends but we just don't talk about that stuff. And that's 
 
 peace. But I think that's pseudo peace. That's false peace. We should be able to have strong conversations with each other.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): But so many barriers to conversation remain. Most schools are still segregated and remarkably, these peace walls are not only 
 
 still here, they're taller and longer than they were before the peace deal. Real tensions exist.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) could have been nor could have been difficult situation (INAUDIBLE) we're going to lost a daughter, like you 
 
 know what I mean?
 
ROBERTSON: In Derry, 12-year-old Ella McClay, a Protestant school girl tells us how a group of Catholic children beat her up.
 
ELLA MCCLAY, PROTESTANT SCHOOL GIRL: (INAUDIBLE) and they were like you're proud to know.
 
ROBERTSON: Your products and that's what they were saying.
 
The video her parents share with us is brutal. Police say they're investigating the incident as a sectarian attack. A shocking reminder of 
 
 life before the peace deal. There are other reminders too. These marches coming out to support a group that police believe tried to kill one of 
 
 their officers in February.
 
Parading through Belfast, just days ahead of President Joe Biden's visit. Hardline groups that rejected the Good Friday Agreement haven't gone away.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): It's because of groups like this one that the British government has recently raised its terror threat level here in 
 
 Northern Ireland from substantial too, severe from a threat likely to a threat highly likely.
 
ROBERTSON (voice over): For Erin and most people here despite imperfections Northern Ireland's cup is more than half full.
 
MCARDLE: And half a year so, I like to stand right there and other ladies.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: That was CNN's international editor -- diplomatic editor reporting from Northern Ireland, Nic Robertson.
 
Well, you are watching CNN. This is CONNECT THE WORD with me Becky Anderson. 
 
Ahead in sports. From worst to first. That's one way to describe John Rahm's convincing victory at the Masters. How he overcame an opening hole 
 
 double bogey to win his first green jacket. More on that after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:41:09]
 
ANDERSON: Well, the weather turned from stormy to sunny at Augusta National Golf Club over the weekend. And so did John Rahms rise up the leaderboard 
 
 at the Masters. World Sports' Andy Scholes in the house for you. Andy, what a remarkable comeback.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: It was. And you think, Becky, that John Rahm four-putted and double bogeyed his very first hole of the tournament. 
 
 And then when it's all said and done, he ran away with the Masters winning by four strokes. And he's now one of only seven guys ever to win both the 
 
 U.S. Open and the Masters before turning 30 years old.
 
And Becky, believe it or not. He's the first European player -- born player ever to win both the Masters and U.S. Open. He couldn't even believe that 
 
 stat. So, we'll be hearing a lot from John Rahm coming up here on World Sport about his big win and we'll head back to Augusta and wrap up the 
 
 entire tournament. That was quite the wild one between the weather and what we saw from Rahm and Brooks Koepka and Tiger Woods having to withdraw is 
 
 certainly was eventful.
 
ANDERSON: And before I let you go because you've just got about 30 seconds. That was a story of course. That Tiger Woods had to pull out. Why, Andy? 
 
 Just briefly.
 
SCHOLES: Well, if you watched him on Saturday afternoon when the weather was really at its worst, he could barely walk there, Becky. And he said 
 
 he's plantar fasciitis and his foot started acting up but you could just tell the injuries that he suffered from that car accident still really make 
 
 it hard for him to play a full round of golf. And considering the way the weather was, it was remarkable that he even made the cut -- and but going 
 
 out there again on Sunday to play more than a full round of golf just didn't seem realistic.
 
And he did end up pulling out. And when we see Tiger again now, that's also a big question.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. Absolutely. More than that I'm sure in "WORLD SPORT". Andy is in the house. We will be back top of the hour for you. After that, 
 
 taking a very short break. And he's back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END