Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: State Funeral Underway for Former Italian Prime Minister; Trump Defiant after Arraignment; Migrant Boat Sinks near Greece, 78 Dead; E.U. Accuses Google of Anti-trust Violations; Cyclone Biparjoy Threatens India and Pakistan. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired June 14, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Hello, I'm Lynda Kinkade in for Becky. Anderson welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
Mourners pay respects at the state funeral of the former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. 
 
Donald Trump remains confined after pleading not guilty to all 37 felony charges. 
 
Hundreds of people are feared dead after a migrant boat sinks.
 
And a major cyclone is headed toward India and Pakistan. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KINKADE:  We began with Italy's farewell to the man who once called himself the Jesus Christ of politics. Here are some live pictures coming in for us 
 
 now of the funeral for former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. 
 
Thousands have turned out in Milan to say goodbye to the controversial billionaire. He died Monday at the age of 86, after battling leukemia, 
 
 dominating Italian culture and politics for years. Ben Wedeman in for more on this. 
 
Good to have you with, us. Ben, love him or loathe him, he was an influential figure. Today's a national day of mourning in Italy. The 
 
 official sendoff in Milan happening, thousands gathered. 
 
Who was attending?
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SR. INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  We understand there are about 2,000 in the Duomo, the main cathedral of Milan. Among them is the 
 
 president of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella as well as Giorgia Meloni, the prime minister and various other major political figures. 
 
However not all are there. Giuseppe Conte, the head of the Five Star Movement, who was the prime minister of Italy in the darkest days of the 
 
 COVID epidemic, has decided to boycott the ceremony. 
 
As far as foreign dignitaries there, a fairly small turnout. We know that Viktor Orban, the prime minister of Hungary, is there as well as the emir 
 
 of Qatar and the prime minister of Iraq. 
 
Notably missing, for instance, is Tony Blair, who, at one time, appeared to be a very good friend of Silvio Berlusconi. Blair and his wife, Cherie 
 
 (ph), actually had a private vacation at Berlusconi's very luxurious Sardinian villa during his time as prime minister. But he is not. There 
 
George, Bush who also had good relations with Silvio Berlusconi also notably absent from this ceremony. 
 
Outside, in the Piazza del Duomo, outside the cathedral, we're seeing a fairly large crowd, not quite as large as one might expect perhaps, because 
 
 it is the middle of the work week, the middle of a workday. 
 
But yes. It is a national day of mourning although not everybody here is happy that this day, of all days, has been made a national day of mourning, 
 
 which actually normally does not happen even when a prominent public figure dies. 
 
In, fact the University of Siena for foreigners has refused, for instance, to lower its flags to half mast because, according to the director, it 
 
 would make the university lose its moral credibility. 
 
So as you can, those who've turned out in Milan today are clearly supporters of the late former prime minister. But there are other Italians 
 
 who don't quite feel the same way -- Lynda. 
 
KINKADE:  Understandably. Ben, as you are alluding to there, he was a divisive figure. His career was punctuated by scandals and legal trials. 
 
What would be his legacy?
 
WEDEMAN:  Difficult to. Say he certainly changed the entire tone of Italian politics. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
WEDEMAN:  He brought the language of everyman into public debate. But many people believe that he's debated -- he debased Italian public life with 
 
 some of his off-color humor, his scandals, his endless legal troubles. 
 
Don't forget that, in 2013, he was convicted of tax evasion. So the feeling is that certainly he changed the tone. He made Italian politics a bit more 
 
 lively than it was before. 
 
But he did not necessarily change much in terms of ordinary daily life in Italy. At the end of his term as prime minister, his terms as prime 
 
 minister, in 2011, the Italian economy had actually shrunk since he came into office back in 1994. And Italy's public debt skyrocketed during his 
 
 time in office. 
 
So it is hard to say if he actually leaves a lasting legacy beyond his change, shall we say, that he brought about in the tone of Italian politics 
 
 -- Lynda. 
 
KINKADE:  Ben Wedeman joining us from Rome. Our thanks to you. 
 
Former U.S. President Donald Trump is celebrating his 77th birthday today after an unprecedented court appearance in Miami on Tuesday. He pleaded not 
 
 guilty to 37 charges related to the alleged mishandling of classified documents, making him the first former U.S. president to be charged and 
 
 arraigned for alleged federal crimes. 
 
Trump told supporters after the court hearing the charges are fake and fabricated. And he claims he had every right to have the documents. CNN's 
 
 Sara Murray reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Former President Donald Trump maintaining his innocence in the face of 37 federal 
 
 charges related to his alleged mishandling of classified documents.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  I hadn't had a chance to go through all of the boxes. It's a long, tedious job. It takes a long time. Which I 
 
 was prepared to do but I have a very busy life.
 
MURRAY (voice-over):  Trump speaking before a crowd of supporters at his Bedminster golf club, capping a historic day that included the first 
 
 federal arraignment of a former president.
 
REP. DON BACON (R-NE):  We cannot deny what president Trump did was wrong. I, mean it is clear as day wrong.
 
SEN. LISA MURKOWSKI (R-AK):  I do not care if you are a Trump supporter or a Trump oppose or. You have to take this seriously.
 
MURRAY:  Trump surrendered at a federal courthouse in Miami Tuesday afternoon. His attorney telling the court on Trump's behalf that we most 
 
 certainly enter a plea of not guilty.
 
In the courtroom, Trump sat with his arms crossed at a table flanked by his two lawyers. Trump did not address the court, also seated at that table, 
 
 his aide and codefendant Walt Nauta. Nauta could not enter a plea because he did not have a Florida lawyer present.
 
Of the 37 count Trump faces, some are for obstruction but most are for the willful retention of national defense information.
 
TRUMP:  Threatening me with 400 years in prison for possessing my own presidential papers, which just about every other president has done, is 
 
 one of the most outrageous and vicious legal theories ever put forward in American court of law.
 
MURRAY:  The judge presiding over the arraignment did not impose any travel restrictions but told Trump that he could not speak to any of the potential 
 
 witnesses in the case. Trump's attorney objected, insisting that many of the witnesses in this case are people employed by the former president.
 
The judge clarified that Trump could not speak about the facts of the case with any of the witnesses including Nauta and asked to provide a list of 
 
 witnesses in the case.
 
Also present in the courtroom, special counsel Jack Smith, though he did not speak during the hearing.
 
Trump was greeted by a crowd as a motorcade left the White House. He made an unannounced stop at the famous Cuban restaurant Versailles in Miami's 
 
 Little Havana where he was met by dozens of supporters. He entered the restaurant with Nauta by his side and spoke to religious leaders.
 
After the indictment, Trump's former vice president, Mike Pence, spoke about the charges after previously urging the Justice Department not to 
 
 indict the former president.
 
MIKE PENCE (R), FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:   I have the opportunity to read the indictment that was filed. I can't defend what's 
 
 alleged. 
 
These are serious allegations and the handling of classified material, as I learned in my years as vice president and my years on the Foreign Affairs 
 
 Committee is a serious matter that bears upon the national security of the United States.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  That was CNN's Sara Murray reporting. There 
 
I want to go to CNN's Katelyn Polantz in Miami for more on this. 
 
Good to have you with, us  Trump made history as the first ex U.S. president to be criminally charged twice. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
KINKADE:  What are the restrictions he faces right now?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT:  He has a couple things. He has to come back to court. That is one of the basic 
 
 things that happens once you are under arrest. He signed some forms to that effect, saying he will show up as this case progresses to trial. 
 
The other thing is that there is a special restriction the judge placed on him yesterday, something the Justice Department nor Donald Trump's own 
 
 defense lawyers wanted to happen. 
 
But the judge did adds to his provisions -- and Trump has to agree to -- which is that can't discuss the facts of this case with either his 
 
 codefendant, Walt Nauta, the man accused of carrying those boxes with classified documents throughout Mar-a-Lago, trying to obstruct justice. 
 
Or he cannot also speak with anyone who is a witness or potential victim in this case that the Justice Department will identify in the Trump legal team 
 
 about the facts of the case. 
 
So some provisions over what he is able to say behind closed doors. There's also the situation where, now that Trump is under arrest, it's very common 
 
 for defendants in the United States to be able to know. 
 
And they must know that any statement they make publicly could be used against them in the court of law. Donald Trump already is not having any 
 
 qualms about speaking publicly about this case. Here is one of the things he said at a speech last night just after this arraignment. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  As president, the law that applies to this case is not the Espionage Act but very simply the Presidential Records 
 
 Act, which is not even mentioned in this ridiculous 44-page indictment. Under the Presidential Records Act, which is civil, not criminal, I had 
 
 every right to have these documents. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
POLANTZ:  So some of the things he is saying there is very much the sort of thing his lawyers will bring up from now until the trial as they are 
 
 arguing against these charges before the judge. 
 
So he is voicing some legal arguments but he also is saying there, essentially, that these are documents he had, which is the sort of thing 
 
 that could potentially become part of the case, a statement like that because this case is not about Donald Trump himself having the documents, 
 
 although he is accused of having them. 
 
It's about the documents themselves being in his possession when he knew it where they were unsecured and outside the protections of the U.S. 
 
 government. 
 
KINKADE:  Katelyn Polantz, good to have you on the story for us from Miami. Thank you very much. 
 
U.S. secretary of state Antony Blinken is headed to Beijing this weekend during a period of increased tensions. He is set to meet with his Chinese 
 
 counterpart to discuss maintaining open lines of communication. 
 
U.S. officials say they will also talk about the war in Ukraine. Blinken was supposed to make this trip in February but it was delayed due to that 
 
 surveillance balloon incident. 
 
Search and rescue operations continue after a boat carrying hundreds of migrants sank off the coast of Greece. At least 78 people are confirmed 
 
 dead. More than 100 others have been rescued. 
 
And an NGO says there may have been as many as 750 migrants on board that fishing vessel. The Coast Guard says no one on board was wearing a life 
 
 vest. Joining me now is CNN's Barbie Nadeau.
 
Barbie, this boat we believe was en route from Libya to Italy. It sank off the coast of Greece, now likely the deadliest migrant boat incident in 
 
 years. 
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That's. Right it is just another one of these tragic incidents that happened to make people talk about migration 
 
 again, irregular migration. Then it is quickly forgotten. 
 
We had a very deadly accident off the coast of Calabria here in southern Italy in January. of this year. Which raised some attention. Meanwhile, the 
 
 European Union leaders are trying to negotiate with Libya, with Tunisia, to try to find a way to stop the boats from coming. 
 
Of, course until unless they do the boats continue. But this has been one of the deadliest first quarters of the migration trail, the central 
 
 migration trial is one of the deadliest in the world. More than 20,000 people have died trying to cross into 2014. That's according to the IOM. 
 
This has been one of the deadliest years so far. We have just seen an uptick of people, desperate, people being taken advantage by human 
 
 smugglers on boats like this. What we know about this particular, boat, we will never know exactly how many people were on it because there are no 
 
 passenger lists. 
 
But in boats like this, we see time and time again these large numbers. There could have been up to 750 according to this NGO. So many, times to 
 
 keep the balance, they lock people into the lower levels of the boat so there's not a lot of movement. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
NADEAU:  So the fact we've seen 104 people, have survived this so far, and the bodies that they, found there are probably many more bodies locked in 
 
 that. Boat and they will have to try to determine whether to bring that boat up or just leave at sea, which is so often the case in this horrific 
 
 and deadly and irregular migration crisis that is continuing to strike Europe. 
 
KINKADE:  We will stay on the story. We'll speak again soon. Barbie Nadeau, thank you so much. 
 
I want to go back to Milan now. Some live pictures coming in right. Now the coffin of the former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi is coming out 
 
 now out of the Duomo. Thousands have gathered inside to say goodbye. The full-time prime minister of Italy died on Monday at the age of 86 after 
 
 battling leukemia. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  You can hear there, some of those gathered clapping as the coffin passes through the crowd, outside the Duomo in Italy. This is 
 
 the official sendoff. It is a national day of mourning in Italy and an unusual situation for a funeral, a state funeral like this. 
 
He, of course, was a divisive figure. He had a career that was punctuated with scandals with various legal trials. He was only convicted once for tax 
 
 fraud-related charges. He was barred from returning to office. 
 
But as you can see, thousands have turned out today to fare well this very controversial and somewhat popular figure of Italian politics there. His 
 
 five children are there as well as his partner. They greeted the coffin as it arrived just now leaving. Let's just listen in. 
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking foreign language).
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Listening to chants and clapping as Italy fare wells (sic) the former Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. He was prime 
 
 minister four times. And you will see there are thousands of people have gathered outside the cathedral there. 
 
He's certainly a divisive figure. This is a national day of mourning in Italy today, to bid him farewell. He had a career that was punctuated by 
 
 scandals and various legal trials, even up into earlier this year. He was only ever convicted once of tax fraud and embezzlement and was not able to 
 
 reenter office after that. 
 
Thousands of people bidding him farewell today, including his five children and his partner. Political life in Italy is on pause for the next seven 
 
 days. Parliamentary work is to stop, opposition figures have criticized the response to stop parliament for seven days. I believe the Democrats in 
 
 Europe saying the state funeral is duty but the proclamation --
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  -- of a national day of mourning is instead to be a political choice. A member of the Democratic Party questioned the decision 
 
 to freeze parliament, saying there are numerous dossiers awaiting urgent response. 
 
But even in death, Berlusconi, the reaction to him, appears to be divisive. We have heard tributes from leaders around the world. We understand the 
 
 leader of Hungary is present for this funeral. 
 
Other leaders and former leaders were unable to make it, including Russian president Vladimir Putin, who did provide a glowing tribute to Berlusconi, 
 
 calling him a true friend. 
 
He described him how he was -- he was charged by Berlusconi's incredible viality (sic), his optimism, his sense of humor. 
 
Of course, earlier this year, Berlusconi criticized Ukraine and blamed Ukraine for Russia's war. Thousands of people right now gathered outside 
 
 the cathedral in Milan to bid the four-time prime minister of Italy, Silvio Berlusconi, a farewell as his coffin makes its way. Out he is expected to 
 
 be cremated and laid to rest at (INAUDIBLE).
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
KINKADE:  Well, we are hours away from a pivotal decision that could shift not only the direction of the U.S. economy but the world. The Federal 
 
 Reserve will announce at 2 pm Eastern, this afternoon, whether it will raise interest rates again or hold them steady. 
 
If there is a pause in rate rises, it would be a welcome break to Wall Street after the Fed increased them 10 times consecutively to combat that 
 
 historically high inflation. 
 
Here is a look at how the markets are looking right now ahead of that decision. Quite mixed the Nasdaq up just 0.3 percent. The Dow Jones down 
 
 almost 0.5 percent. 
 
Google is facing trouble concerning one of its traditional profit generators. The European Union says the search engine's advertising 
 
 business should be broken up, alleging inherent conflicts of interest in its digital supply chains. 
 
Essentially the E.U. says the tech giant's ad buying tools rather purchases during online auction house that Google also owned. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
KINKADE:  In response, Google's V.P. of global ads rejects the probe, saying focus on a narrow aspect of our advertising business. The legal 
 
 process could end up in billions of  dollars in fines, as well as a breakup of Google's ad business. 
 
This, of course, follows a lawsuit by the U.S. Justice Department in January also calling for a breakup of Google's advertising arm. 
 
More than 100 people are confirmed dead after a boat carrying hundreds of wedding guests capsized on the Dipnigia (ph) River. Authorities say the 
 
 boat overturned when it hit a tree trunk on Monday. (INAUDIBLE) say the boat split into two and the water carried passengers away. 
 
Search and rescue operations have rescued at least 144 passengers. A local chief described the accident as a big tragedy, adding that he himself lost 
 
 four of his neighbors. Well, our Stephanie Busari joins us now from Lagos with more on this horrific accident. 
 
Stephanie, this is a large boat carrying wedding ceremony guests. And the death toll does continue to rise. 
 
What are you learning?
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR AFRICA EDITOR:  So Lynda, scenes of celebration have turned into scenes of horror. And we have learned that at 
 
 least 106 people have so far been confirmed dead as police carry on their search and rescue operation in this area of north central Nigeria. 
 
This is a small village and these, most of the boat passengers, about 250 of them, we're learning, were returning home in the early hours of Monday 
 
 morning. Because we're in the height of rainy season, Lynda, they decided to go buy boat. And about 250 of them packed into this boat and tragically, 
 
 the boat hit the tree trunk and capsized. 
 
KINKADE:  Stephanie, you said rescue operations or recovery operations are still underway. 
 
What else can you tell us about the accident and claims the boat may have been overcrowded?
 
BUSARI:  So with details (ph) are still emerging turning and authorities are very focused on seeing who they can rescue and recover from this, from 
 
 this incident. But boat overloading is not uncommon here. 
 
And these types of accidents are very common indeed. It's not unusual for people to pack themselves in large numbers in boats mostly without life 
 
 jackets or life vests. And this is what is looking like happened here. 
 
KINKADE:  Stephanie Busari in Lagos, Nigeria, we will stay across the story. Thanks so much. 
 
Well, first they survived a plane crash. Then they survived more than a month almost completely alone in the Colombian Amazon rain forest. It's 
 
 little wonder their father says it is a miracle that four of his children are alive. We have more details now from our Stefano Pozzebon who reports 
 
 all four children are now recovering in hospital. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  On, Tuesday the father of the Indigenous children that were rescued last week in the Colombian Amazon 
 
 rain forest after spending 40 days alone in the jungle, sat down with CNN to recount how that encounter was after that experience and especially the 
 
 flight on the military helicopter that took them out of the jungle last Friday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANUEL RANOQUE, FATHER OF RESCUED CHILDREN (through translator):  The moment we found the kids, we started to see thunder and lightning bolts. We 
 
 left at the right moment; 10 minutes later and the helicopter could not have taken us. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
POZZEBON:  Mr. Ranoque is the biological father of the two youngest children and the stepfather of the oldest two. His late wife, Magdalena 
 
 Mucutuy, died in that fatal airplane crash on May the 1st. The children remain in medical observation in the Colombian central military hospital 
 
 here in Bogota. 
 
And they are receiving both psychological and physical support as they recover from that harrowing experience. 
 
Meanwhile, the Colombian military forces have said that 70 commandoes remain in the jungle to trying to search and rescue Wilson (ph), a canine 
 
 unit that was lost in the search after making contact with the four children last week -- For CNN, this is Stefano Pozzebon, Bogota. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE:  It is being called an extremely severe cyclone and it is turning toward India and Pakistan. We will have a live weather report in just a 
 
 moment. Stay with us and see what you see on CNN.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  I'm Lynda Kinkade in Atlanta, filling in for Becky Anderson. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD. Here are your headlines this 
 
 hour. 
 
In Italy has declared a day of mourning as former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi is laid to. Rest you're looking at live pictures right now of 
 
 his funeral in Milan. The flamboyant billionaire died on Monday at the age of 86. He was described by allies as a fighter. His long political career 
 
 was marked by scandals. 
 
Donald Trump is now the first former U.S. President to be charged and arraigned for alleged federal crimes. Inside a federal courtroom on 
 
 Tuesday, he pleaded not guilty to 37 charges related to his handling of classified documents. Trump says he's facing fake and fabricated charges 
 
 and claims he had every right to the documents. 
 
Search and rescue operations are underway after a boat carrying hundreds of migrants sank off the coast of Greece on Wednesday; 78 people are 
 
 confirmed. dead and there are estimates that between 400 and 750 migrants were on board that fishing boat. According to the, Coast Guard no one 
 
 aboard was wearing a life vest. 
 
KINKADE:  In Sudan, increasing levels of ethnic violence in West Darfur has the worst it's been in 20 years. That's according to a human rights 
 
 observer, who said it's clear that ethnic cleansing is taking place. The region has been a focal point of attacks against local tribes by Arab 
 
 nomadic tribes, linking to the RSF. 
 
The United Nations issued a warning, saying attacks conducted by the RSF- backed group could amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity. 
 
India and Pakistan are bracing for the impact of a massive storm. Cyclone Biparjoy is churning away in the Arabian Sea. It is set to make landfall 
 
 Thursday, threatening the Indian state of Gujarat and Pakistan's largest city of Karachi. 
 
Budding winds and a storm surge is expected. A shelter has been set up in India. And Pakistani officials say that more than 60,000 people have 
 
 already been evacuated. 
 
(WEATHER REPORT) 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
KINKADE:  The president and drought is affecting the Panama Canal, prompting authorities to implement water saving measures. Water levels in 
 
 at least one reservoir are dropping, forecast to hit historic lows next month. 
 
And the start of El Nino, which brings warmer than average temperatures, could make things worse. Surcharges and weight limits are being imposed on 
 
 ships using the global trade route. 
 
The new restrictions could force ships to carry fewer goods. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
KINKADE (voice-over):  Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories on our radar right now. The U.N.'s World Food Programme says it 
 
 will cut assistance to more than 2 million Syrians due to an unprecedented funding crisis. 
 
Aid organizations are calling for immediate actions to meet increasing food needs in Syria, as an (INAUDIBLE) conference on supporting the future of 
 
 Syria and the region takes place in Brussels. 
 
For the 12th, time Lebanon's parliament has failed to elect a president. Lawmakers held a session earlier to try to pick a replacement for former 
 
 president Michel Aoun, seen here in pitches. He surrendered back in October to the country's political deadlock adds to Lebanon's ongoing financial 
 
 crisis. 
 
Israeli lawmakers have just made their decision on a crucial vote to decide two places on the country's committee that appoints judges. This is 
 
 considered a key step toward a compromise in a controversial plan to overhaul Israel's courts. 
 
However, prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu reportedly told his coalition to vote down both candidates. 
 
Still ahead, what happened in Vegas is staying in Vegas, at least for the next year. We will have the details of a history making Stanley Cup victory 
 
 when we come back.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
(SPORTS) 
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END