Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: President Biden Pledges Continued Support for Ukraine in War against Russian Invasion While Giving Speech in Poland; Ice Storm Threatens Large Parts of U.S.; Clean Up Efforts Continue in East Palestine, Ohio, after Trail Derailment Leads to Chemical Spill. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired February 22, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
MAC MCCLUNG, 2023 NBA SLAM DUNK CHAMPION:  I really believe in myself, and I'm going to continue to prepare for that moment, and I'll be ready when it happens.
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR:  Yes, well, look, Mac, it was awesome for us to see, for us to witness. I am so happy for you. Congrats. And we will be watching as you build that career. 
 
MCCLUNG:  Thank you, guys, so much. I appreciate you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, (D) PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  One year into this war, Putin no longer doubts the strength of our coalition. But he still doubts our conviction. He doubts our staying power. But there should be no doubt. Our support for Ukraine will not waiver. NATO will not be divided, and we will not tire. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR:  That was a big moment. Look, we are moving into election season. The biggest pulpit is the bully pulpit regardless of who enters this race, and the president has it, and he used it in that moment. 
 
HARLOW:  On the world stage. 
 
LEMON:  On the world stage. 
 
HARLOW:  On a very big week. Good morning, everyone. We are so glad you are here. It is 8:00 a.m. eastern. Don and I are in New York. Kaitlan is anchoring live in Poland. Hey, Kaitlan. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR:  Yes, here in Poland it is the final day of President Biden's momentous trip. This hour he is set to meet with world leaders from NATO's eastern flank. You can hear the arrivals happening behind us, allies who fear that they could be Putin's next target potentially. 
 
LEMON:  There is a lot going on where Kaitlan is. Plus, more than 65 million Americans on alert, a powerful coast-to-coast winter storm unleashing blizzards, ice, and heavy snow. We'll have the latest forecast. 
 
Plus, this for you. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  You think this transforms coffee? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Very few people outside of Starbucks have tasted it. No consumer research whatsoever. Nothing.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  He revolutionized the coffee industry. Now he is teasing a new twist for your cup of joe. Coming up, our sit-down with Starbucks CEO Howard Shultz as he looks ahead and back on that career. 
 
COLLINS:  But we begin this morning with President Biden and the final day of his momentous trip here to Europe as Vladimir Putin's brutal invasion of Ukraine is about to hit its second year. Minutes from now the president is going to meet with leaders from NATO's eastern flank here on Warsaw. These are the allies who are on Russia's doorstep. Some of them share a border. They have raised concerns that Putin could potentially attack them next. 
 
This meeting comes after President Biden delivered a powerful and forceful speech on the world stage last night. He made a solemn vow that Russia will lose and Ukraine will prevail with continued support from the United States and the west. CNN's chief White House correspondent Bill Mattingly was there as the president was delivering the speech. You were there a year ago, but today, the message today is just as important as what he has been saying since Kyiv and yesterday as he was meeting President Duda, to these leaders as well, because they're just as concerned.  
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, I think you need to view this trip, and you know this well, that this is not three events or three days in isolation. These are all connected, from the surprise visit to Kyiv to make very clear that he was standing shoulder to shoulder quite literally with President Zelenskyy, to the broader kind of what are the stakes message yesterday here in Poland, and then this meeting today with the Bucharest nine leaders is critical because showing up matters. 
 
I know sometimes it's dismissed or its seems simplistic but the president being here, being in Ukraine, being in Warsaw, meeting with these leaders, they need to see it, they want to see it and it underscores the commitment that the president has given a verbal acknowledgment toward repeatedly over the course of last 12 months is both very steadfast and will continue no matter what. 
 
COLLINS:  What about what he is going home to, though? Because he talked about the U.S. standing behind Ukraine for as long as it takes. That's a quote that he keeps using. There is a real concern at home, though. You covered Capitol Hill with lawmakers, some of the Republicans who say this should not continue the way that it has for the last year. 
 
MATTINGLY:  It's interesting in talking to officials. They are cognizant of it. They see it. They don't believe it's widespread enough to dramatically impact what they want to do, and they also know quietly that they are going to have to go back to Congress for tens of billions of more dollars in the months ahead. I think that's a critical point here.
 
The support is still fairly widespread. Most importantly the support includes Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, all of the key committee chairs, and that's very important here. However, they are going to need 218 votes in the House to get anything passed. 
 
And so I think part of what you are seeing from the president, this is a trip that has multiple audiences, whether it's President Putin, she.. it's the European leaders, particularly those in the eastern flank, whether it's the Ukrainian people, it's also the American people, because they believe that the American public is still largely behind this effort, understands the stakes, and that will drive where lawmakers go. But what they are most concerned about is that the kind of small group that has been very vocal, particularly on social media, about their disdain for the assistance to Ukraine up to this point starts to grow. I don't think it has yet, but they're aware that it's a possibility, and that's why moments like this are critical.
 
COLLINS:  Yes, that audience there last night is just as important as the audience at home. It is notable, the House Foreign Affairs Chairman Mike McCaul was in Ukraine meeting with Zelenskyy right after President Biden. 
 
MATTINGLY:  Yes, I think it's important to note that the people that are opposed to Ukraine aid or that have been visceral in their response to it are not a majority in the Congress. 
 <br>[08:05:05]
 
They do not control the Appropriations Committee, they do not control the Foreign Affairs Committee. But they have a voice, and they certainly have grassroots support. And so while you shouldn't give all the attention to 15 people who like to tweet, you do have to pay attention to it because they now hold the majority in one House of Congress and they certainly have proven they have leverage even if they are in small numbers. And so to your point, Mike McCaul Republican, House Republican chairman, steadfast, wants President Biden to go further. He is more representative of where Republicans are than perhaps Marjorie Taylor Greene, but Marjorie Taylor Greene has a lot of power in the conference, and that has to be acknowledged and paid attention to. 
 
COLLINS:  Yes, a really important fact. Bill, great reporting. Thank you for joining us on set this morning. Nice to see you, as well. 
 
Don and Poppy, obviously, we will be watching to see what President Biden's message is for these leaders today. They are listening very closely as well because they want to know that the United States is behind them, behind them firmly. 
 
HARLOW:  Yes, 100 percent. Kaitlan, thank you for anchoring from there for the past few days. A huge moment for the president, for the world to see that. Kaitlan will be back here, she is hopping on a plane. 
 
Now to weather. Blizzard warnings from the Dakotas to Minnesota, more than 65 million people under these winter alerts coast to coast this morning. Freezing temperatures across Utah, some areas expecting two to three feet of snow. And look at this. A really close call for a Wyoming state trooper narrowly escaping a runway semitruck that just jumped the meridian. Minnesota's governor declaring a state of emergency there, activating the National Guard to rescue stranded motorists. That's where we find our very own Adrienne Broaddus. My friends at home are saying school is already canceled and they are preparing for a lot. 
 
ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Poppy, your friends, those Minnesotans, they like a lot of snow, and some schools already have it figured out. Just no in-person learning. Some schools said class is not canceled. The students are still having class online today, and that's because of this big winter storm that is in the path of Minnesota, and, quite frankly, across the Midwest. 
 
If you don't have to go outside, stay home. If you have a wonderful boss who will allow you to work from home, stay home. It's what the governor is saying. And if you don't believe me, just look at your phone, if you have an iPhone, or go to the website of the National Weather Service. This is how the National Weather Service is describing this storm. Historic winter storm will likely lead to impossible travel by Wednesday night and early Thursday morning. Yes, snow, it's a snow lover's dream come true after we get on the other side of the danger here, but if you don't have to be out in this stuff, don't. Minnesota is prepared to handle all of the snow. There are more than 800 snowplows across the state, and at least 1,600 drivers here in Minnesota. Poppy, I you're your friends and family here are safe.
 
HARLOW:  All right, Adrienne, OK, thanks for braving it with your crew for everyone, Adrienne. We will get back to you soon. 
 
LEMON:  So how are things looking in other parts of the country? Chad Myers, our meteorologist, joins us now, 65 million people under winter alerts. What is the latest, sir? 
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Don, there is a winter storm warning for the mountains above L.A. L.A. County, Ventura County, winter storm warning there, and it stretches all the way to Maine. This is a monster storm, 3,000 miles long if you travel the highways, a little shorter as the crow flies. But significant impacts across the Dakotas, into Minnesota, Wisconsin. And it's an ice event that I am really worried about here, an ice storm from just north of Chicago to Detroit. 
 
They bring down thousands of power lines here. It's raining right now and 31 degrees in Toledo. That's not a good combination. There will be areas with an inch of ice accumulation on those branches. Now, I know the snow is the story, but to me the ice storm is as big of a story. You know, 12, 14 inches of snow, shovel it. You get a quarter of inch of ice on the ground, you are going down, you are going to fall, you are going to be traveling here in skating rinks across parts of this area for today and for tonight. 
 
By Thursday, it's all gone. It moves into Maine and even just north of Boston. But for now this is a story to take very, very seriously, Don. 
 
LEMON:  All right, and we do. Thank you very much. And everyone at home should heed Chad's advice. 
 
Straight ahead, we're going to hear the calls from a Alabama lawmaker for a, quote, national gun of the United States. 
 
HARLOW:  Also the CEO of Norfolk Southern, that big train company at the center of the toxic train derailment in East Palestine is now defending its response. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALAN SHAW, NORFOLK SOUTHERN CEO:  Norfolk southern is committed to the community and citizens of East Palestine. We are going to be here today. We are going to be here tomorrow. We are going to be here a year from now. 
 <br>[08:09:59]
 
And we're going to be here five years from now. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Here's to you. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Thank you so much. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  I don't know. Yes. Ohio governor Mike DeWine and the EPA administrator Michael Regan, that is them drinking the water in East Palestine, Ohio, yesterday in an effort to try to assure the people there that it is safe to drink after that train derailment released toxic chemicals. Meantime, Norfolk Southern's chief executive is defending his company against backlash from residents reporting health concerns such as headaches and nausea. Our Miguel Marquez is live again this hour in East Palestine with more. That question, Miguel, is do people trust, do they have trust that it is safe? 
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  That is the bottom line for all of this. When and how will they get people to trust that the water is safe, that the air is fine to breathe? And this has gone on so long that people are right to some degree to be concerned. I want to show you what is happening. This is one creek in the middle
 
 of East Palestine right now. We have been here a few hours now, and just in the time we have been here you can see off in the distance just in front of that other bridge, they have added more barriers and more devices that stir up the water. So those barriers are -- the water gets stirred up, those barriers capture whatever toxins may be in the water, they absorb it, and they have these up and down these creeks. This is a creek that is contaminated, and they are trying to do everything they can to stop it. 
 
People are concerned here because there was the derailment, many, many cars were derailed, lots of chemicals, they weren't sure what was in it. Then there was a controlled burn of one of the cars. That sent an enormous plume of smoke not just here over the city, but across into Pennsylvania over farmland, it's a very beautiful area in this area.
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
And people do a lot of farming here. So, there's great concern there. And then they found out that there were even more toxic chemicals that they didn't know we're on the train. After that, the CEO of Norfolk Southern finally started to come out and respond to some of those accusations.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALAN SHAW, CEO, NORFOLK SOUTHERN: The control burn, control release, was the safest course of action for the citizens of East Palestine. Every single decision that has been made so far, has been based on the safety of the citizens of East Palestine. We're going to help the residents of this community recover and we're going to invest in the long-term health of this community. And we're going to make Norfolk Southern safe for where work.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARQUEZ: So, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency has now signed an order saying that Norfolk Southern must pay for the cleanup here that the Norfolk Southern must come up with a plan that the EPA and Ohio and Pennsylvania have to sign off on. And Norfolk Southern must from now on, attend public hearings, so that they can begin to restore that trust. Poppy?
 
LEMON: Miguel, I'll take this because I have a question for you. Listen, you've got the folks here saying the water is safe to drink. They're drinking this water. But the big question is the people who actually live there, the citizens, are they buying it? Are they drinking the water? They think it's safe?
 
MARQUEZ: A lot of, look, we had breakfast here this morning, they gave us bottled water. I think everybody out of an abundance of caution because they see this in their own backyard. I mean, this is the middle of town we are -- we are 50 feet away from the main street here because you have contaminated creeks. Two contaminated creeks right here that they know are contaminated right here in town. I think everybody out of an abundance of caution are not going to drink the water and not feel secure for quite some time. Weeks, months, perhaps years back you guys.
 
HARLOW: Don, asked the question and it's very telling that they gave you bottled water, this morning at breakfast. Miguel, thanks for your great reporting.
 
MARQUEZ: Sure.
 
HARLOW: Tonight, everyone should tune in to CNN 9:00 p.m. Eastern for CNN Town Hall on this toxic train disaster. Ohio, Governor Mike DeWine will be there along with concerned residents. Don?
 
LEMON: You're right, they're given a bottle of water so that's interesting. Here's where we are right now. OK, pay attention to this. An Alabama Congressman has introduced legislation to name the AR-15 style rifle the, quote, ''National Gun'' of the United States. Congressman Barry Moore unveiled his proposal bill at an Alabama gun shop on Tuesday, watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. BARRY MOORE (R-AL): Second Amendment is an American -- is as American a right as freedom of speech, our religion, or even press. Further, we need to send a message to the American public, they're weakening the Second Amendment. We'll likely increase the other routes will be effective as well.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON: So, Moore's bill proposed by co-sponsored by, I should say, Georgia, Congressman Andrew Clyde, Georgia represented Andrew Clyde. Also, Congresswoman Lauren Boebert and in battle, New York Congressman George Santos. The Firearm Industry Trade Association describing the semi-automatic AR-15 as a modern sporting rifle used by hunters, competitors, millions of Americans seeking home defense guns. But time and time again, the AR-15 style rifle has proven to be the weapon of choice for gunmen carrying out some of the deadliest mass shootings in the history of this country.
 
From school shootings in Uvalde Texas, Parkland, Florida and Newtown Connecticut. Two fatal rampages at movie theatres, supermarkets and houses of worship. So, in some ways, it is a gun that shaped this nation. Maybe that how congressmen Moore intense.
 
HARLOW: Yes. Wow. (INAUDIBLE) telling Don. Thank you. Coming up next. More of our interview with Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz. We went with him to Italy, and Canarsie, Brooklyn to discuss his journey and his last big bet at the helm of the company.
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELENA KAGAN, JUSTICE SUPREME COURT OF UNITED STATES: "You are creating a world of lawsuits." BRETT KAVANAUGH, JUSTICE SUPREME COURT OF UNITED STATES: "Lawsuits will be nonstop."
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEMON: This is important coming out of the Supreme Court. OK. That was supreme court justices talking about a blockbuster case it could change the future of the Internet. At the center of the debate -- of this debate is a federal law known as Section 230. It currently shields internet companies from liability over content that is posted by third parties. The justices will -- for the first time, consider the scope of the law in the Gonzales versus Google case. It was brought by the family of Nohemi Gonzalez, the only American killed in the 2015 Paris terror attacks. The lawsuit argues that algorithms on YouTube, which is owned by Google. Promoted terrorist content online, which then aided and abetted ISIS, but lawyers for Google say, at the company is not responsible because of section 230.
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
LEMON: Yes.
 
HARLOW: It's really significant. CNN media analyst, Axios Media Reporter, Sara Fischer, is with us. This is so important for the future of the internet. And I mean, listening to oral arguments, you've got Justice Alito, saying I'm completely confused by whatever argument you're making. That was to the lawyer opposing Google. Explain what happened and why these matters.
 
SARA FISCHER, AXIOS MEDIA REPORTER: Yes, so, in the brief, the plaintiff didn't mention small things like whether or not a thumbnail institute being a publisher of content. But when it came to the courtroom, that type of argument was stuff that he used at length. And so, I think that Google's lawyers and the justices were pretty confused about the argument he was trying to make here. But let's zoom out a little bit Poppy, for the viewers of CNN. Why this matter is that for the past three decades, we've used the internet, and we've been able to upload whatever we want. If I want to put up a picture of a health condition I have to see if other people have it. If I want to upload comments on Yelp, so that I can warn people from a bad restaurant, all that stuff's been fair game. 
 <br>[08:25:13]
 
If you were to change this law, suddenly, all these tech platforms like Google, like Meta, like Yelp, they would be held liable for content that I would post. And because of that, they would be unlikely to let me post at all. And so the question then becomes, should we change this law to make these companies held liable? I think yesterday's case, and oral arguments were really important because it seems to me, like it's not looking like the Supreme Court is going to touch this, if anything this will get punted to Congress.
 
LEMON: Well, it's interesting, because you made the observation earlier to hear, I mean, both sides sort of looked like they were in agreement. HARLOW: Yes. The most liberal justices --
 
LEMON: and the most conservative.
 
HARLOW: -- and most conservative.
 
LEMON: Yes. So, this is, it has gone on challenges 230 on until now. And what do you think the chances are? You're an observer of this, what do you think the chances are that something will be done? You said, it looks like it's going to be punted back down? (INAUDIBLE) that for sure? Because if they're in agreement, maybe they'll take it on and do something about it?
 
FISCHER: No, I don't think that the Supreme Court is going to handle this Don, because the Supreme Court is responsible for interpreting big laws. This is not a vague law. I think the challenge becomes, do we change the law, and that becomes the responsibility of Congress to meet the demands of the 21st century. Justice Kagan said something yesterday, which was important, we did not have algorithms when we wrote this law. Now, we do, so, do we now need to revisit this law, which passed over 25 years ago to account for that?
 
And that kind of gets to the point by the way that the plaintiff was making. They weren't saying that the fact that this was published as the problem, they were saying the fact that the algorithms used by Google amplified it, and that was the problem. Now, to your point, do I think that Congress is going to actually challenge this? Well, the problem is, they're really divided right now. Conservatives have long focused on censorship. Democrats have long focused on misinformation. And I think it's hard for them to really fundamentally go back and change a law like this, if they're not in agreement on that.
 
HARLOW: But Ron Wyden and Chris Cox, who originally were behind writing the law in 96, are on the same page still. And seem to be saying, you know, it's still working the way we intended it to work.
 
FISCHER: It is. And so that brings you to a third possibility, which is do we just introduce new legislation that requires these tech platforms to be more transparent about how their algorithms work? And then potentially, if that's the case, we can, you know, push them towards adjusting them in cases like this, where there's things like terrorist conspiracies that are being promoted. I think that's probably the most likely outcome Poppy, but again, we have such a divided Congress right now we can barely get budgets passed. Can we get a new inner let-net law passed? I'm not quite so sure.
 
HARLOW: Yes. OK, Sarah.
 
LEMON: All right.
 
HARLOW: Thanks to you.
 
LEMON: Sara Fischer, really appreciate you with this. Thank you so much.
 
FISCHER: Thank you. LEMON: All right. So, here's the breaking news right here on CNN, at least 10 Palestinians, including two Islamic Jihad commanders killed in a major IDF operation in the West Bank. And that is Israeli defense forces there, an Israeli defense force operation in the West Bank. The daylight operation left more than 100 people injured. Israel army radio is reporting that the raid was to stop an imminent attack, idea for raids into the West Bank usually occur overnight. The last time the military concluded a daylight operation, they said that it was because of an immediate threat. CNN is going to continue to update you on what we know as the day goes on. But this breaking news is coming out of the West Bank. At least 10 Palestinians including two Islamic Jihad commanders killed Wednesday in a major IDF operation in the West Bank, at least 100 more injured. We'll continue to follow.
 
HARLOW: And as you said, rare to happen in the daylight like this.
 
LEMON: And also, we have to say happening as the President is on the world stage. Visiting Ukraine, returning but this is all happening. There we see him, he's in Warsaw, Poland today, but returning to the United States.
 
HARLOW: And it is his last day in Warsaw. In just moments he will meet with the so-called Bucharest Nine, those are the countries that border Russia will take you there when it happens.
 <br>[08:30:00]