Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: U.S. Says, Chinese Ship Came Within 150 Yards of Destroyer; GOP Rivals Criticize Trump for Praising Kim Jong-un; Today, NTSB Heads to Site Where Four Killed in Plane Crash, F-16s Caused Sonic Boom While Trying to Intercept Plane; Nikki Haley Discusses Top Issues at CNN Town Hall; Oil Prices Jump after Saudi Arabia Vows to Cut Production. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired June 05, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR:  That as you brought up the civil rights movement, that the way that this is being held to sit in starting this morning is really modeled on the 1965 Selma to Montgomery marches.
 
I wish we had more time, but I think you guys are going to be there for days. So, please come back, Lake and Sam, and join us. Thanks very much.
 
SAMANTHA SCHACHER, CO-HOST AND MANAGING EDITOR, DAILY BLAST LIVE: Thank you for your support. We appreciate it. Thank you.
 
HARLOW:  DNN This Morning continues right now.
 
Good morning, everyone. It is the top of the hour, 08:00 A.M. Eastern. We're glad you're with us. Rahel Solomon by my side, good morning.
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR:  Good morning.
 
HARLOW:  And we begin with that. You wonder why that dog was running? Because that was a sonic boom rattling the nation's capital as fighter jets scrambled to chase an unresponsive plane that was flying over Washington, D.C., through restricted airspace. We'll have the latest on the crash and those on board.
 
SOLOMON:  Also, new video shows a Chinese warship nearly collide with the U.S. Navy destroyer. CNN just spoke with America's top general, Mark Milley, what he said about it.
 
HARLOW:  I can't wait for that interview.
 
Also today could be Apple's biggest product launch since the Apple Watch. What we're learning about the company's new mixed reality headset.
 
This hour of CNN This Morning starts right now.
 
And here is where we begin with the CNN exclusive interview with America's top general, that is Mark Milley, As tensions mount with China. Pentagon Correspondent Oren Liebermann sat down with the Joint Chiefs chairman in Normandy, France, today. This comes after a Chinese warship nearly collided with a U.S. Navy destroyer during a military exercise.
 
Look at that video. That's in the Taiwan Strait. The Pentagon says the Chinese ship cut right in front of the destroyer and came within 150 yards of crashing into it. The video of the close encounter shows it all.
 
Also top of mind, Ukraine and the looming counteroffensive, Russia claims it repelled a large-scale attack by Ukrainian forces who are trying to break through Russian lines in Southeastern Ukraine.
 
So let's go to Oren Liebermann live in Normandy. Look, when Mark Milley talks, people listen. Quite a sit down you had. What's the biggest takeaway?
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  Absolutely. We had quite a bit of time with him and we talked about a number of different issues ranging from Ukraine to China, to issues facing the military broadly.
 
But, of course, a lot of this focused on Ukraine as we've been watching what's happening essentially on the other side of the continent and pointing out that D-Day is a celebration, a commemoration of the largest counter offensive in modern European history, as we wait for a counteroffensive in Ukraine.
 
We asked him, having watched this war for nearly the past year-and-a- half, is Ukraine ready for the counteroffensive? And does it believe -- does he believe, rather, that the counteroffensive itself will be successful? He was careful in how he viewed what will happen here because of the uncertainty of military operations. But here's what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEN. MARK MILLEY, CHAIRMAN, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF:  So, I think it's too early to tell what outcomes are going to happen. I think the Ukrainians are very well prepared, as you know very well. The United States and other allied countries in Europe and really around the world have provided training and ammunition and advice, intelligence, et cetera, to the Ukrainians. We're supporting them. They're in a war that's an existential threat for the very survival of Ukraine and has greater meaning to the rest of the world for Europe, really, for the United States, but also for the globe.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LIEBERMANN:  We certainly talked to him more about Ukraine, but you hear the point he made at the end there, how crucially he views the war in Ukraine not only for the country itself, but for Europe and beyond. And that's where his emphasis was on much of our conversation, what he's referred to as the rules-based international order, which is part of what's at stake when it comes to Ukraine. So, there will certainly be a lot more on that topic, Poppy.
 
HARLOW:  How fascinating also, Oren, to get to sit down with him a day after we all see this video of a Chinese warship getting within 150 yards of U.S. and Canadian ships in the Taiwan Strait. What did he say about that, and just a broader context of U.S.-China relations right now?
 
LIEBERMANN:  For him, one of the important aspects here is levels of communication between Beijing and Washington. And that's where -- although there are some successes, some breakthroughs here, there are also some challenges.
 
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, who was just at a defense conference in Singapore, did not meet with his Chinese counterpart, even though CIA Director Bill Burns was just in China and there's another senior State Department official there.
 
But he emphasized that the relationship between China and the U.S., the relationship between two great powers must not veer towards conflict. And that's where the concern is. That is the import of making sure there are different levels of dialogue and communication between Beijing and Washington to make sure the relationship stays in the realm of competition even as the U.S. sees these as more aggressive encounters coming from the Chinese military, whether it's the Taiwan Strait over this past weekend or just a couple of weeks ago over the South China Sea.
 
HARLOW:  Well, Oren, thank you for the reporting again.
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
I can't wait to see the rest of the interview. You can all see Oren's exclusive interview with General Milley 4:00 P. M., The Lead with Jake Tapper, it will be there, and also A.C. 360 with Anderson later tonight.
 
SOLOMON:  And joining us now is CNN's Chief National Security Correspondent Jim Sciutto. Jim, good morning.
 
Of course, you follow these developments very closely. What are your thoughts when you see this video and we have these rising tensions between U.S. and China, I mean, what are your thoughts?
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Well, first, when this happens, this does not happen by accident. Chinese warship commanders are not freelancers nor are Chinese pilots, as we saw with that close encounter last week. This happens with the approval from the very top in China and this is part of a broader strategy by the Chinese military to challenge U.S. military operations in the region, both in the South China Sea, where we saw, for instance, that U.S. reconnaissance flight harassed a number of days ago, but also here in the Taiwan Strait.
 
The U.S. does these operations on purpose to show that these are international waters, that the U.S. views them as international waters and reserves its right to fly and sail through international waters. Of course, the Taiwan Strait takes on special importance because it's right between China and Taiwan. And China has been raising the threat of the possibility of taking Taiwan by force, which, of course, the U.S. opposes. And, again, these naval operations there by U.S. ships, these crossings of the Taiwan Strait are deliberate, message-sending, right, to say, we support Taiwan as it is, and this country opposes any Chinese military action there. So, when China challenges that, that's a deliberate challenge to the U.S. position here.
 
And I should also note this. That's very close at sea. 150 yards may sound like, well, that gives you some steering room. These are big ships. They don't turn very quickly. The potential of having a collision there is real.
 
HARLOW:  That's a great point. I mean, you've been on these ships literally, Jim. You know that better than anyone.
 
Let me just ask you also about I thought it was interesting that Mike Turner, who obviously is a Republican chair of the House Intel Committee, said on one of the Sunday morning shows yesterday, we're seeing, in his words, unbelievable aggression from China. And his view is that the Biden administration has been too passive. They should do more. What can the Biden administration do given we just heard Jake Sullivan say, at some point, Biden will meet with Xi Jinping?
 
SCIUTTO:  Well, I think that there's always the politics of how this is read. The U.S. operations in that part of the world have been pretty consistent, from Obama even to Trump, and here to Biden of continuing these freedom of navigation operations, as they're called, sailing through international waters in the Strait, South China Sea, et cetera. So, none of those operations are new. The frequency is about the same. What has changed is China's aggression in responding to them and also things we've talked about on this broadcast before, right, flying surveillance balloons over the continental U.S. So, it has ratcheted up.
 
And there is -- by the way, you get some of that criticism from Democrats, not just Republicans, as well as to what can the U.S. do to project greater strength while at the same time, and this goes to Milley's comments there, not escalating, right? Because there's great concern about what -- you're both measuring each other's reactions, right? And you don't want to get caught on some sort of escalation ladder where you get within the realm, right, of an act of war. And that's the dangerous thing. All it takes is one mistake, one miscommunication, one jet that collides with a jet or one ship that collides with a ship. And that's the other element here, is that neither side wants to go that far. It's a really dicey time. I don't think there's any way to describe it.
 
SOLOMON:  Really delicate. Jim, as you know, several Republican presidential candidates over the weekend and also last night during our town hall took aim at former President Donald Trump for praising North Korean leader Kim Jong-un after he was elected to the executive board of the WHO last week. I just want to play a stop for you and then discuss it on the other side.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL):  I was surprised to see that. I mean, I think, one, Kim Jong-un is a murderous dictator.
 
MIKE PENCE, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT:  whether it's my former running man or anyone else, no one should be praising the dictator in North Korea or praising the leader of Russia, who has launched an unprovoked war of aggression in Ukraine.
 
NIKKI HALEY, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I mean, Kim Jong-un is a thug.
 
I don't think we ever should congratulate dictators. Congratulate our friends, don't congratulate our enemies. It emboldens them when we do that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON:  So, Jim, what does it tell you that they're so united, at least on this issue against Trump?
 
SCIUTTO:  It's notable, right, because it shows it on the praise for dictators, whether it's Kim Jong-un, Putin, or Xi Jinping for that part, right, Donald Trump, during his term, has said some quite praising words of Xi Jinping as well, is that he's on an island, whether with Democrats or within his own party, in terms of the deference and the praise that he shows for these leaders.
 <br>[08:10:08]
 
So, to hear from Republicans in uncertain -- and Republican challengers, of course, to Trump for the nomination in no uncertain terms, that Kim Jong-un, a murderous dictator, that's a fact. Vladimir Putin, the one pursuing the largest bloodiest war in Europe since World War II, you know, it's his fault. To hear those statements from them shows that Donald Trump's positions on those conflicts. And, remember, go back to the CNN town hall, Trump would not say which side he wants to win in that conflict, right? So, in that sense, his positions are outliers even within his own party.
 
SOLOMON:  Republican challengers are going to --
 
HARLOW:  Yes. It comes at a time, Jim, just before you go, when North Korea is claiming that they've miniaturized nuclear warheads. I mean, the moment --
 
SCIUTTO:  yes, it is. I mean, we can't not pay attention to what's happening in North Korea. There's so much for folks at home. And I get it, because you've got Russia in Ukraine, you've got tensions with China. North Korea, for years, presidents of both parties in this country, Democrats and Republicans, said they would not allow a nuclear North Korea. North Korea is nuclear today. It has nuclear weapons and it has missiles capable of carrying those nuclear weapons.
 
And as they advance, make them smaller, that means, sadly, it's the prospect of being able to fit more warheads on the top of one weapon makes it harder to defend against. I mean, that is a dangerous place to be, but that's the reality we're living in today.
 
SOLOMON:  Jim Sciutto, great to have your insight and analysis on this issue. Thank you.
 
SCIUTTO:  Good to see you, guys.
 
HARLOW:  Yes. Thank you, Jim.
 
This morning, officials investigating the crash of a private plane with an unresponsive pilot. This happened in Virginia, and it prompted military fighter jets to scramble so fast, they caused a sonic boom. Listen.
 
So, the National Transportation Safety Board will begin the process of documenting the scene and examining the aircraft. Authorities say all four people on board that plane were killed.
 
Our Pete Muntean joins us now. How can something like this happen?
 
PETE MUNTEAN, CNN AVIATION CORRESPONDENT:  You know, what's so disturbing here, Poppy, is why the pilot on board this plane and why the other people on board this plane were unresponsive to this military fighter jet interception, really alarming details here. And the big question now is whether or not this private jet, assessing a citation, seats between about seven and ten people. The air inside is pressurized, meaning that it makes it breathable, more compressed, not breathable outside at high altitude.
 
If there was a rapid decompression in this case, meaning that the air inside whooshes out because of some mechanical failure, maybe the door was open or there was a cracked window, maybe something in the structural integrity of the airplane, if you're up high at 34,000 feet, the pilots have very little time to respond. 10,000 feet, they've got a lot of time to respond. 25,000 feet, three to five minutes and put on an oxygen mask. 35,000 feet, 30 to 60 seconds. That is when hypoxia starts to set in. It's really the insidious killer. It's very hard for pilots to recognize.
 
I can tell you, as a pilot and flight instructor, the first symptoms, your fingernails go blue. Then you start to get a bit of visual impairment, also maybe acting a little drunk, maybe a little giddy, and then, of course, judgment impairment, and you could slip into unconsciousness. It's very, very dangerous.
 
And this is something that the NTSB will have to look at here. They really have their work cut out for them now to try and figure out if this is, in fact, the case. A lot of aviation experts I'm talking to say that is likely, can't rule it out just yet because this sounds, on paper, at least very similar to the Payne Stewart crash of 1999. You may remember that pro-golfer was on board a Lear jet at 40,000 feet. Fighter jets also sent up to intercept that plane. That plane crashed in an unpopulated area in South Dakota. In this case, this plane crashed in an unpopulated area in Virginia.
 
A lot of big questions here that investigators will look into, Poppy.
 
HARLOW:  It's really scary and just so sad for lives lost. Pete, I appreciate the reporting.
 
SOLOMON:  Well, coming up for us, Nikki Haley took on guns and abortion in a CNN town hall last night. Coming up, we will discuss the big takeaways.
 
HARLOW:  Also, oil prices rising after Saudi Arabia vows to cut production in a major way. Again, what does it mean for you? We'll talk about that ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[08:15:00]  
 
HARLOW:  What does it mean for you? We'll talk about that ahead.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 
HARLOW:  So a really fascinating CNN Republican presidential town hall last night with Nikki Haley, talking to the crowd in Iowa addressing an array of topics distancing herself from Florida governor, Ron DeSantis, and her former boss, Donald Trump. Here's some highlights.  
 
(Begin VT)  
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I think we can all agree on banning late-term abortions. I think we can all agree on encouraging adoptions and making sure those foster kids feel more love, not less. I think we can agree on doctors and nurses who don't believe in abortion shouldn't have to perform them. I think we can agree on the fact that contraception should be accessible.  
 
And I think we can all come together and say any woman that has an abortion shouldn't be jailed or given the death penalty.  
 
You mentioned that shooting at the schools, you need to end gun free zones. Gun free zones, when you look at -- killers always look for a place that's a gun free zone because guess what? Nobody else is going to be able to protect themselves.  
 
I don't trust government to deal with red flag laws. I don't trust that they will -- that they won't take them away from people who rightfully deserve to have them.  
 
Don't lie to them and say, oh, we don't have to deal with entitlement reform. Yes, we do. Yes, we do. It's the reality. I'm always going to tell the truth. Is it going to hurt? Yes. But for our kids, they know they're not going to get it anyway.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
HARLOW:  Jake did press her though to put an age on it, we didn't get an answer there, but joining us now to talk about all the headlines from last night, former White House communications director, Alyssa Farah Griffin; CNN senior political commentator and former senior adviser to President Obama, David Axelrod.  
 
Good morning, guys.  
 
DAVID AXELROD, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Good morning.  
 
HARLOW:  You were up late. I was listening to your smart analysis after the town hall and now, you're back up early.  
 
AXELROD:  Sleepy analysis, yes.  
 <br>[08:20:10]  
 
HARLOW:  Well, give us your read in terms of what Nikki Haley succeeded at and where she fell short last night?  
 
AXELROD:  Look, I thought that she had a very strong night in terms of her performance and she sort of set the tone of it, right, when she came out. And Jake offered her the chair. She said, no, I prefer to stand. You can sit if you like.  
 
And that in a sense was, she took command of that stage and she is a great performer. She's folksy. She's warm. She can be tough, and she's a great performer.  
 
You can see, David Chalian said last night, well, you can see she's been working in the Iowa town hall circuit. I'm familiar with that circuit. And yet, that's absolutely true.  
 
The issue is two. One is, she tends to kind of -- she is an artful dodger on controversial stuff. So her governor just signed a six-week abortion ban. She would not comment on it.  
 
HARLOW:  It is held up by the courts now, but yes.  
 
AXELROD:  On guns, she was very strong on elements of it, and then said -- and mental health in particular, and then said, but I won't support red flag laws, because I don't trust the government to make this judgment and she previously had said the government should have done something in Charleston to stop that guy from getting guns.  
 
So it's those kinds of inconsistencies that you can get away with strong performances when you're running at the state level, but when you're running for president, that stuff catches up with you. And she's just got to kind of plant her feet and take a stand on some of these things and take some risks.  
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR:  Yes, Alyssa, in terms of sort of dodging the question that Jake asked her about abortion? I mean, how is this going to play with the base?  
 
ALYSSA FARAH GRIFFIN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  So I actually thought the abortion answer was the most interesting of the night. It is definitely the most nuanced answer that we've seen in a Republican primary and noting that this is in Iowa, the most conservative part of the primary, it shows how much this issue has shifted post Dobbs, that you have a Republican primary candidate saying anything other than I'm going to overturn Roe v. Wade.  Listen, she's doing a tough dance not answering the question in her
 
 home state of six weeks, but this one, this was a very different answer than DeSantis than I expect we're going to see from Mike Pence than I think we've seen from virtually everyone that's in the race right now.  
 
The thing with Nikki Haley is this, she may have the most political talent in the race on the Republican or Democratic side. My question is, does she have the political will? And what I mean by that is, she has got to come up in the polls.  
 
She has kind of hovered around one to five percent and that is going to require her to take on Donald Trump directly, something that she largely avoided doing, except with some minor areas like Ukraine last, including in her own state, and that's problematic.  
 
AXELROD:  Yes. She kind of went for the jugular, not the jugular, but the capillary last night. You know, she just sort of grazed him.  
 
Her whole theme was we have to get past that vendetta politics and anger and division and so on. Well, he's sort of the author of all of that, and if you're not willing to take him on, on that, then you're not really going to make the separation you need to make.  
 
HARLOW:  She also said politics is a blood sport, and I know that better than anyone, so let's see if she's going to really, really get into it.  
 
I'd love for you both to weigh in on this moment from last night where she talked about what she views as the, in her words, women's issue of our time. Here it was.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  The word "woke" used to be used by progressives to talk about and awareness of inequities and historical inequities, but obviously, it means something else to conservatives criticizing it.  
 
What does it mean to you? How do you define woke?  
 
HALEY:  There's a lot of things. I mean, you want to start with biological boys playing in girls' sports. That's one thing. The fact that we have gender pronoun classes in the military now.  
 
I mean, all of these things that are pushing what a small minority want on the majority of Americans, it is too much. It's too much. I mean, the idea that we have biological boys playing and girls sports, it is the women's issue of our time.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
HARLOW:  Is it? Is that what Republican voters see it?  
 
GRIFFITH:  I'm not sure that I think this is the woman's issue of our time, and I've said this before. Listen, she needed to throw some red meat to the base.  
 
Last night felt very much like a general election performance for a Republican candidate until she got into the trans issue and guns issue.  
 
I remind, folks, this is an issue that is the minority within the minority. The trans community is an incredibly small community within the United States, then break that down even further to it dealing with athletes in high school or collegiate level, that's something that I think a conservative could push back and say, why can't local governments deal with this? Why can't school boards? Why can't the NCAA? Why does it require the federal government and the presidency to deal with it?  
 
So, I'm not sure that has a lot of legs to it. I also think we are going to retire the word "woke" after this election. It is so overused it is losing all meaning.  
 
AXELROD:  Yes, listen, I agree. I think Nikki Haley's dilemma is that she is sort of an old school Republican sort of, you know Bush-type Republican in a Republican Party that has changed.  
 <br>[08:25:09]  
 
So you saw elements of the old in there on Defense and some other issues, and then she threw a few bones to the base and this was one of those bones -- the trans issue was one of those bones.  
 
I'm not anatomically qualified to answer this question, probably. But no, I don't think that -- I don't think most women would tell me that, that that is the women's issue of our time.  
 
SOLOMON:  David and Alyssa, Joe Manchin -- Senator Manchin over the weekend flirted with a Plan B, what a Plan B would look like. I want to play the sound, and then get you guys to weigh in.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  
 
SHANNON BREAM, FOX NEWS CHANNEL ANCHOR:  Is a third party run still in the realm of possibilities?  
 
SEN. JOE MANCHIN (D-WV):  You better have Plan B, because if Plan A shows that we're going to the far reaches of both sides, the far left and the far right.  
 
BREAM:  And you're saying it possibly could include Joe Manchin?  
 
MANCHIN:  I'm not saying who is it going to include or exclude.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
SOLOMON:  I mean, he is facing a really competitive race in his own state of West Virginia. I mean, is that an actual possibility that he jump soon?  
 
AXELROD:  Listen, I mean, I don't want to be unkind to Senator Manchin, but he's kind of dead man walking in West Virginia. There is nowhere for him to go.  
 
He's got a popular Republican governor in a state that Donald Trump carried by almost 40 points. He didn't win by very much last time. So he knows that he can't win re-election in that state. This would be a graceful exit for him, and he may believe there are people in that no labels movement who are trying to persuade him that he could actually win in a race with Biden and Trump.  
 
By the way, I don't think Biden necessarily represents the far left of anything. I think, he is trying to develop a rationale for doing this. 
 
HARLOW:  He did a slew of interviews yesterday morning on the Sunday shows, and one of the points in one of the interviews that I thought was so interesting is, he was asked, you know, Alyssa, if you see Biden moving more to the middle like he did in the agreement on the pipeline in the debt ceiling bill, does that make a path harder for you? And does that make you rethink? Right? Because what he brought against is saying Biden has been pushed too far to the left.  
 
GRIFFITH:  Yes, but I think Biden is also going to have to worry about losing progressives if he goes any further.  
 
Listen, I would love for us to exist in a system in which a third party could be viable and fruitful, and I think it would actually be more representative of the American populace, but we're not there.  
 
If you were to run this, this no labels effort is frankly like a donors pipe dream that I don't think is going to do anything other than probably prop up the more extreme side of the Republican Party assuming that Donald Trump is the nominee. So I'm not sure --  
 
AXELROD:  Mostly a Republican donor's pipe dream, people who are unhappy with Trump, but the irony of the whole thing is, if Joe Manchin runs on a third party line, the very high likelihood is that he will elect Donald Trump if Donald Trump is the nominee.  
 
HARLOW:  Yes, he is taking votes from the right, not the left.  
 
AXELROD:  Yes.  
 
HARLOW:  Thank you, both.  
 
SOLOMON:  A number game. Thank you, guys.  
 
HARLOW:  Alyssa and David, good to have you very much.  
 
AXELROD:  Good to see you, guys.  
 
HARLOW:  Okay, so Wednesday, Dana Bash will moderate another CNN Republican town hall. This will be with former vice president, Mike Pence, it is in Iowa and it starts at 9:00 PM Eastern only right here on CNN.  
 
SOLOMON:  Well, gas prices could soon be on the rise in the US. That's as Saudi Arabia announces plans to slash production by a million barrels per day starting next month.  Let's get right to CNN's chief business correspondent, Christine
 
 Romans.  
 
So tell us about the impact this could have really to all of us?  
 
CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR AND CHIEF BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, you know, we've had a nice tailwind here in the US economy and that has been falling gasoline prices and falling oil prices for some time, and now, Saudi Arabia is stepping up there and saying, there will be an output cut and what will stand to do is raise gas prices and raise oil prices eventually.  
 
But how much still remains to be seen? This is nine million barrels per day is what Saudi Arabia is going to pump from now on. That's down from 10 million barrels per day.  
 
But there is a lot of, I would say dissension inside the OPEC+ cartel about where they're going to put oil prices, where they're going to put output here.  
 
So I think with the very near term what it means, look at where gas prices are today. $3.55 a gallon. That is down 25 percent from last year. So this has been a good piece of the inflation story in the US, but also in the European Union, where inflation levels have been coming down, still too high, but have been coming down.  
 
What does the White House have to say about this? Well, the White House points out that it doesn't set these prices. That is OPEC. "We are not a party to OPEC+, which makes its own decisions. We are focused on prices for American consumers not barrels, and prices have come down significantly since last year."  
 
Overall, I think what we'll watch here is just how much oil prices could rise and how much gas prices could rise. The expectation had been these gas prices would stay well below year ago levels, in part because global demand is softening for oil, from China, from Europe, and from the United States, because you know, the overall economies are cooling off.  
 
We're not running as quite a hot economy this year as we were last year. So, that's what we're watching right now. The oil story has been a very good story for oil prices and maybe you're going to see those declines slow down or even reverse a little bit.  
 
SOLOMON:  We will be watching. Christine Romans, thank you.  
 
HARLOW:  It really brings into question though Biden's trip to Saudi Arabia.  
 
SOLOMON:  Oh, that's -- yes.  
 
HARLOW:  And the goal of that and look at what has happened since with OPEC+.  
 
Happening today, Apple set to reveal its biggest product launch in in years, not just a year a "mixed reality headset." What is that?  I can tell you it's expensive, that's next.  
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[08:30:25]