Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Netanyahu Gets Pacemaker Ahead Of Judicial Reform Vote; Thousands Protest Israel's Judicial Reform Plan; How Artificial Intelligence Is Already Working In Hollywood; Harman Leads With Final Round Of British Open Underway; Netherlands Handles Debutante Portugal, 1-0; France's Viral World Cup Ad Celebrates Women's Soccer; Russia Launches Fresh Attacks on Odesa; Special Counsel Calls Witnesses as Possible Indictment Loom; Trump Classified Documents Trial Set for May 2024; More Dangerous Heat on Tap for U.S. Today; Kansas Man Caught in Car Pounded by Golf-Ball Sized Hail; Heavy Rain Washes Out Baseball Game in Boston; Nearly 19,000 People Evacuated from Greek Isle Due to Fires. Aired 6-7a ET

Aired July 23, 2023 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[06:00:35]
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning and welcome to CNN THIS MORNING. It is Sunday, July 23rd. I'm Victor Blackwell.
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: Hi, everyone. I'm Amara Walker. Thank you so much for spending a part of your Sunday with us. Here's what we are watching for you this morning. Russia launched a new round of missile attacks on Ukraine damaging several residential buildings and injuring dozens of people. What we know about the attacks and why Ukraine says it's almost impossible to defend against them.
 
BLACKWELL: Special counsel Jack Smith's office has contacted Georgia governor Brian Kemp as part of its investigation into efforts to overturn the 2020 election. Why Kemp could prove to be a key figure in that investigation.
 
WALKER: And as temperatures across the country continue to soar into the triple digits, agriculture workers say just being outside is suffocating. The efforts to keep them safe as this brutal heat drags on.
 
BLACKWELL: A.I.'s role in Hollywood is a major sticking point for actors and writers who are on strike. We take a look at the technology that has Hollywood on edge and why its creators say that it is not going to replace your favorite actors.
 
WALKER: We begin this morning with the war in Ukraine. Russia unleashed another round of attacks on the southern port city of Odesa. Authorities say at least one person was killed, 19 others wounded, including four children. Ukraine's southern operational command says the overnight strikes damaged at least six residential buildings, a church, an architectural monument. Ukraine's ministry of culture says the strikes have destroyed many U.N.-protected world heritage sites. President Zelenskyy called the attacks Russian evil. BLACKWELL: The leader of Belarus, Aleksandr Lukashenko, has arrived in Russia for a meeting today with President Vladimir Putin. That's according to the state media agency in Belarus. Now, the country's defense minister says that Belarusian forces will soon hold joint military exercises with the Wagner forces that are near the border with Poland.
 
CNN's senior national security correspondent Alex Marquardt is joining us live from Kyiv. So, bring us up to speed on the latest on these attacks in Odesa and elsewhere.
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Victor and Amara. Russia continuing to batter the southern port city of Odesa causing significant damage. Overnight Russia fired at least four different kinds of cruise missiles. That's why they are so difficult to defend against. One is in fact a supersonic anti-ship missile. So, usually used at sea that they decided instead to use on land.
 
Among the significantly damaged buildings was the Transfiguration Cathedral. That is in the historic center of Odesa that is a UNESCO protected world heritage site. As you said at least one person was killed. President Zelenskyy vowing that there will be retaliation and that Russia will feel that retaliation.
 
Victor and Amara, all of these strikes over almost a week now taking place as Ukraine is struggling to make gains in their counteroffensive. We spent some time recently with the 47th mechanized brigade on Ukraine's southern front. We saw some of the recently acquired western equipment that they got, including an American Bradley Fighting Vehicle. And when we spoke to the soldiers, to a man, they emphasized how incredibly difficult the fight has been so far. Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): In a secret basement bunker, part of Ukraine's 47th mechanized brigade, is desperately trying to find out how to punch through Russian lines.
 
STANISLAV, UKRAINIAN ARMED FORCES: There are a lot of Russians.
 
MARQUARDT (on camera): There are a lot of Russians?
 
STANISLAV: In here and overall. They have more guns. They have more shells. And they have more people.
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): CNN was given an exclusive look at this battalion command post at the very front of Ukraine's counteroffensive in the south, filled with maps and feeds from drones. Stanislav closely watches dozens of drone feeds helping artillery teams try to take out Russian positions.
 
(on camera): You can see that from here. You can see how close they are --
 
STANISLAV: Yes.
 
MARQUARDT: -- and you can tell them what?
 
STANISLAV: And we -- and we guide them.
 
MARQUARDT: You can redirect them farther --
 
STANISLAV: Yes.
 
MARQUARDT: -- closer, left, right?
 
STANISLAV: Yes.
 
MARQUARDT: How do you think the fight is going in your section?
 
STANISLAV: It's tough. It's tough.
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): The no man's land between the two sides is heavily pockmarked with craters from thousands of artillery rounds.
 <br>[06:05:04]
 
But it's these little white dots, some of the countless anti-tank and anti-personnel mines that the Russians have laid that are a part of what is making Ukraine's advance so limited. De-mining teams called sappers bravely cross the densely mined battlefield, often under fire, to defuse or detonate the Russian mines. Tral is a sapper who just got back from a mission.
 
We need to break through the mine barriers, he says, so that equipment and infantry can pass. The enemy uses constant artillery and mortar fire. It's hard, he says. Very hard.
 
Everyone here, soldiers and generals alike, admit that over a month into Ukraine's counteroffensive progress is slower than they would like. They argue that the Russians had months to dig in and prepare. But Ukraine was preparing, as well.
 
Soldiers like this team getting weeks of western training and all kinds of new equipment like this American armored Bradley Fighting Vehicle, rarely shown to the press. The Bradley team leader named Kach is just 19. He shows us inside, which is also used to carry troops across the battlefield.
 
I feel very protected, he says. We know we're safe because it can withstand a lot. It has a very thick layer of armor and it has been tested in battles.
 
MARQUARDT: Why do you wear the American flag?
 
(voice-over): Kach is just four months out from American training in Germany. His U.S. flag patch a parting gift for good luck from his U.S. trainer.
 
The first day of fighting was the most difficult, he tells us. We didn't know what to expect, what could happen, how events would unfold.
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): Early setbacks on this front have meant that Ukraine has had to change tactics, moving more on foot after many of the newly acquired vehicles were damaged or destroyed. The team camps out in a narrow tree line, trying to hide from Russian drones. When their next order to assault will come, they don't know, but soon they will be back in the fight.
 
This is the life here, the team's gunner says. You live by the fact that you are preparing for the next mission.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARQUARDT: And, Victor and Amara, that team will have many, many more missions before this counteroffensive is over. Ukrainian officials have acknowledged that the offensive is behind schedule, but they insist that morale is high and that they will make gains.
 
President Zelenskyy saying that this was supposed to be a spring offensive, but at the time they didn't have enough equipment, enough ammunition and enough training. And so, because this was delayed, the Russians were able to build up their defenses, lay those mines and prepare. Zelenskyy saying that they didn't want to rush into the battle and lose more men. Victor, Amara.
 
BLACKWELL: Alex Marquardt, some fantastic reporting there. Thank you so much.
 
The special counsel investigating Donald Trump's alleged attempts to interfere in the 2020 presidential election has now contacted another top state official, Georgia governor Brian Kemp. The former president is accused of trying to push Kemp to overturn Joe Biden's narrow win in Georgia.
 
WALKER: Trump and his allies are also under investigation in Fulton County for illegally interfering in the election. CNN's Marshall Cohen has more. Marshall.
 
MARSHALL COHEN, CNN REPORTER: Good morning, Victor and Amara. Special counsel Jack Smith has contacted Georgia governor Brian Kemp as part of his long-running investigation into the 2020 election aftermath. Our colleague Kaitlan Collins confirmed that Smith's team was in touch with Kemp this past week. Now, Kemp's office really is not saying much and the timing of a possible FBI interview or grand jury appearance for the governor is unclear.
 
But Kemp, make no mistake, he is a key figure in this investigation. That's because in 2020 Donald Trump both privately and publicly pressured Kemp to overturn the election in Georgia. Trump wanted Kemp to interfere with the vote counting, block certification of the results, and convene a special session of the legislature so that he could appoint fake Trump electors.
 
Now, going beyond Kemp, the special counsel is also still in the process of scheduling interviews with additional witnesses. This list of possible additional interviews includes a former Trump lawyer and a long-time ally of Rudy Giuliani. All this comes as possible indictments in the case are looming.
 
Jack Smith sent a target letter to Trump last weekend signaling that Trump might be charged with crimes for trying to overturn the election. The grand jury that sits here in Washington, D.C., is expected to meet in the coming days.
 <br>[06:10:01]
 
Then, guys, there is also the Mar-a-Lago case where Trump is already facing 37 felony charges for allegedly mishandling classified documents and obstructing that investigation. Trump has denied any wrongdoing and he pleaded not guilty.
 
Now, on Friday a federal judge in Florida set a new trial date for May 2024. That is pretty late in the GOP primary schedule. By then, Trump might already be the presumptive nominee. Special counsel Jack Smith wanted that trial to take place this December, presumably with a verdict coming before the Iowa caucuses, but that's not going to happen.
 
The trial is now set for May, though, of course, further delays are always possible. And Trump's team is optimistic that with just one or two additional delays, they might be able to get that case postponed all the way past the 2024 general election. Victor and Amara.
 
WALKER: Marshall Cohen, thank you very much. Joining me now is political reporter Daniel Strauss. Daniel, great to see you. Good morning.
 
So, as we heard there from Marshall Cohen's reporting, I mean, Trump could be indicted for the third time this year. He also has at least four separate trial dates, civil and criminal, between October of this year through May 2024 for those -- for the documents case. We know how his base reacts to his legal troubles, but practically speaking, I mean, we know campaigning for a presidential election is very demanding. Will that -- will these trials or standing trials slow Trump's campaign schedule at all?
 
DANIEL STRAUSS, POLITICAL REPORTER: I mean, that's hard to tell right now. It's very clear that he wants to make this as much of a campaign issue as possible and portray this as a -- quote -- unquote -- "witch hunt" against him. At the same time, though, these are events and proceedings that he has to participate in.
 
So, it's doubtful that he can say, I have a rally in say, Georgia, and not show up for a hearing. But at the same time, though, we -- as you said, we do know that his base responds in a very particular way to developments in any of these legal matters behind him. They circle the wagons behind him and generally rally behind him in both physical support and money. So, the more attention this gets, the more Trump's base digs in, in support against -- or in support with him.
 
WALKER: As we continue to look to 2024, Marjorie Taylor Greene, the far-right representative, she unwittingly gifted Biden a free campaign ad in an attempted attack. She compared President Biden to two popular presidents, Lyndon B. Johnson and FDR. She was trying to paint Biden as a big government liberal.
 
Biden's team jumped on this opportunity, released her speech as a campaign ad for them and tweeted, I approve this message. I want you to take a look at the snippet.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Programs to address education, medical care, urban problems, world poverty, transportation, Medicare, Medicaid, labor unions, and he still is working on it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WALKER: So, yes, give us some context here, Daniel, on the speech and how it backfired in a big way.
 
STRAUSS: Well, the argument here is that President Biden is one of the more big government presidents in American history. And this is a sort of basic criticism of Republicans toward any Democratic president. Here, though, Marjorie Taylor Greene wants to align him with two of the most popular presidents in American history. And this really falls into the larger attack strategy of the Georgia congresswoman.
 
She wants to portray the current president as someone who is more interested in expanding government than helping Americans in any efficient way. Here, though, it kind of backfires. I mean, this is -- she linked him to -- linked President Biden to a president who ushered in Social Security, who brought in the great society. This is -- it's -- you know, it's kind of a compliment for Biden in its own way.
 
WALKER: Yes. These are core American programs that she was trying to portray in a negative light. What about Bidenomics? Because, obviously, the White House is, you know, focusing a lot on Biden's economic agenda for 2024. If you look at a recent CNN poll conducted by SSRS, it shows -- this poll was released in May, and it showed that 66 percent of Americans disapprove of how Biden is handling the economy. What is Biden's plan to grow the economy, and why has it been such a tough sell?
 <br>[06:15:02]
 
STRAUSS: Biden's favorite sort of description of his plan is to grow from the middle out and the lower class up. And the argument here is that he wants to push programs that will help the middle class and help Americans get out of poverty.
 
Right now, support among Americans for these programs are not particularly high, but the Biden administration is betting that focusing on economics, focusing on bread-and-butter table issues that connect to the middle class, you know, are going to help him win re- election as the Republican primary sort of sorts itself out and tries to figure out whether renominating Donald Trump is the right way to go.
 
This is something that the Biden team has been very, very eager to focus on very early in their campaign. They are less interested in, say, commenting on Donald Trump's legal woes and more on Bidenomics and they want to, like, peg the -- their set of programs as Bidenomics in the same way that during the Obama administration the ACA was called Obamacare. And so, the Biden team wants a pretty snappy nomenclature to (INAUDIBLE) this day trying to promote their policies over the next few months.
 
WALKER: Yes. Well, let's see if it gains traction over the next few months. Daniel Strauss, appreciate you. Thanks.
 
BLACKWELL: Nearly three dozen heat records were broken yesterday and that dome of hot air is expanding. Chad Myers is standing by with where we could see more record highs this week.
 
Plus, protesters they flood into Jerusalem as debate begins on controversial judicial reforms. We are live in the city with the latest.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:21:02]
 
WALKER: That unprecedented and persistent heat is sticking around for the start of a new week. Right now, 44 million people are under some sort of heat alert. Today about a half dozen heat records could be set or tied, but the extreme weather came in many forms this week not only heat.
 
A man in Kansas is lucky to be alive after he was caught in a hailstorm in Kansas. His car was destroyed by golf-ball sized hail. Look at his shattered window. He said days later he still has glass embedded in his skin.
 
BLACKWELL: Heavy rain washed out a Boston Red Sox game at Fenway Park. Rain soaked the diamond and sent, look at this, water flooding down stairs. That rain then moved to Canada, dumping three months' worth of rain in one day. A couple of people got swept away in the floodwaters. At least four are still missing.
 
CNN's meteorologist Chad Myers joins us now. Chad, let's focus on this heat first though. Listen, it's going to be what we saw yesterday and the day before, really hot in the southwest.
 
CHAD MYERS, AMS METEOROLOGIST: Absolutely, 115 in Phoenix. I mean, I know it's supposed to be hot, but not supposed to be 115. It's supposed to be 106. And that's still a big difference when you are outside. If you have to work outside or if you're in the shade, that's 115. If you're in the sun that may feel like 125. So, pets, people and property need to be taken care of today.
 
Our there Vegas a cool 108 because you've been way hotter than that. Scattered showers across the Gulf Coast also through the Midwest. But the big story, I think, is that, yes, we still have 44 million. Yesterday that number was 80 million, 90 million. So, a little bit lower.
 
So, the heat is relinquishing its grip just a little bit, especially across the south. Where yesterday the heat index in Baton Rouge hit 118 degrees. Today only 100. A little bit of a cooldown there.
 
Still hot out here in the southwest, but this is the area that is going to begin to shift a little bit towards the north and toward the northeast. Phoenix has been 23 days above 110 for the afternoon high. And many days not below much down to about 95 for a morning low.
 
But some of that heat begins to break off. And I will show you where it goes. It goes into Minnesota. It goes into Wisconsin, Chicago, all the way eventually into New York City. But Minneapolis, are you ready for 100 on Thursday? Because it's on its way. That's part of that little breakoff.
 
Now, it's going to take a little longer to get to New York City but still 96 for your Friday and thundershowers and thunderstorms in the forecast there. So, this is kind of what we are hoping for. I know you don't want this kind of weather in New York. But if you can just break that cycle of the heat being only in one spot, we'll talk about that in the 8:00 hour, why, why this is happening. I'll even try to find a globe here on the building to show you what's going on across the world.
 
BLACKWELL: Why? Why is it happening? All right. Chad, we'll look forward to that. Thank you so much.
 
WALKER: Thanks, Chad.
 
BLACKWELL: So, as we know, these temperatures are not just uncomfortable. They are dangerous and can quickly become life- threatening. One group that is facing an extreme risk, migrant workers.
 
WALKER: CNN's Camila Bernal shows us how farmworkers in southern California are trying to stay safe during this heat wave.
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Amara, Victor, it's a constant reminder to wear the right clothes, to take breaks, to drink water, to stop working if you feel dizzy. Look, Coachella is normally hot. And you see these hot temperatures every single year, but the heat waves do make it extreme. And there are hundreds of agricultural workers who are out picking and packing fruits and vegetables, despite these temperatures and all that food ends up in your table.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERNAL (voice-over): The shade under the grapevines is deceiving. Not enough air and a feeling of suffocation, says 22-year-old Alexandra Corona. She has been working in the fields in the Coachella Valley since she was a teenager and is one of the more than 2 million agricultural workers in the U.S.
 <br>[06:25:05]
 
But it's impossible to get used to temperatures close to 115 degrees.
 
LUZ GALLEGOS, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, TODEC: We understand that's because our environmental impact and the change, but also what that translates to community is not only working with heat and these high-heat conditions, but also in their pocket. That they have -- many of them have shorter working hours because of the heat conditions.
 
BERNAL (voice-over): Already more than 2,300 heat records have been set in the U.S. in the recent heat waves causing dozens of deaths and filling some hospitals to pandemic levels, something Luz Gallegos is trying to prevent.
 
Through the non-profit she leads, agricultural workers are reminded to drink water, take breaks and speak up because no matter how high the temperatures are, the work here continues. Agriculture is one of the largest industry sectors in California and the state says its performance is vital to its economic health and, in turn, provides produce for tables all over the country.
 
GALLEGOS: They are still working. You know, they are still working because they know that they need to make their end goal, to make their money to bring home, to pay the rent, to bring -- to make sure their kids are taken care of.
 
Alexandra agrees. She says there are days when even walking is hard. But she takes the necessary precautions because it's a job she depends on.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BERNAL: And a lot of these farmers schedule their workers either overnight or very early in the morning. The problem here in Coachella is that the temperatures overnight don't drop that much. Everyone that I spoke to told me they are worried about next week's temperatures and they are worried about the summer, but particularly August. Amara, Victor.
 
BLACKWELL: Camila Bernal for us there. Thanks so much. Now, the heat wave in Europe has sparked a number of wildfires in Greece. Yesterday, the largest of those fires got out of control forcing officials to take some desperate measures.
 
WALKER: Ten thousand tourists on the Greek isle of Rhodes had to be evacuated Saturday. And videos posted on social media shows them walking in droves to safety. CNN's Barbie Latza Nadeau joining us now with more on the situation. Good morning, Barbie. I mean, have crews been able to get those flames under control?
 
BARBIE LATZA NADEAU, CNN REPORTER: No, they are not under control on this island of Rhodes. You know, this is the quintessential blue sky, turquoise water, you know, vacation paradise, and it is literally on fire. Affecting so far about 10 percent of the tourist population there, but they are expecting evacuations to keep going.
 
This fire has been burning since Tuesday and there are several more fires. They are doing everything they can to try to contain it. About a dozen hotels have been evacuated. But this affects tourism for the entire region.
 
People go to the Greek islands. These vacations are planned a long time in advance. People are canceling. People are worried about the fire. They are worried about the heat wave.
 
In Athens they are expected to hit a record. People are just really, really suffering there and it's really bad for the tourists but it's really worst for those people who are in the tourist industry. They had a few bad years after COVID. Now, things are getting back to normal and boom they can't -- you know, they just can't provide that kind of holiday people really go to Greece for. Amara and Victor.
 
WALKER: All right. Barbie, appreciate you. We just received word that now nearly 19,000 people have been evacuated in Rhodes because of this wildfire, which is the largest evacuation ever seen in Greece. So quite a significant situation there. Barbie Nadeau -- Latza Nadeau, thank you very much.
 
Still to come, there are massive protests in Israel as thousands march from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Their message to Prime Minister Netanyahu over his plans to weaken the powers of the country's courts.
 <br>[06:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: Turning now to some other headlines we are following for you this morning. One person is dead, another injured after shooting at a hospital in Portland, Oregon Saturday. Police say a security guard at the Legacy Good Samaritan Medical Center was shot and killed during the incident and another staff member , excuse me, was injured.
 
Authorities add that the suspect fled the crime scene but was stopped in the vehicle by police and then later shot and killed. The injured staffer is in a stable condition. 
 
BLACKWELL: Voters in Spain are casting ballots in an election that could see the prime minister's party lose power and a far-right party join a new government for the first time in decades. The governing socialist party suffered a surprise defeat in May's regional elections. And the center-right people's parties forecast a win but will fall short of an absolute majority. But the form a government, it would need to partner with the far-right Vox party. 
 
WALKER: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is in the hospital after being fitted with the pacemaker ahead of a key vote on a controversial judicial reform plan. Netanyahu's doctors say the surgery was triggered by a warning from a heart monitor that showed he had a transient heart block. The Israeli leader is expected to be discharged from the hospital later today in time for the vote on the judicial reform bills.
 
Now, Netanyahu's health scare comes as thousands of protesters converge in Jerusalem as the Israeli parliament debates its judicial overhaul plan. Take a look at this video from yesterday. You can see demonstrators marching with flags, beating drums, some of them bringing their families with them. 
 
BLACKWELL: Part of the controversial legislation's aim is to remove the Supreme Court's power to cancel government decisions it deems unreasonable. 
 
CNN's Hadas Gold is joining us live from Jerusalem. So, what do we know about the vote?
 <br>[06:35:07]
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, hey, Victor. We are in a far-in a place called Gan Sacher. This is a park below the Israeli parliament. And this is actually where protesters have set up a tent city. There are tents almost as far as the eye can see here. Donors have provided the tents as well as food and water, even hats and shirts and even ice coffee here for the protesters. Because the protesters here, they set up yesterday and they say they will stay here for as long as possible until the judicial overhaul is off the table. 
 
You guys were talking about that march that went from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem culminating in Jerusalem last night. The protesters here are essentially full alert all day. Today protesters have been flooding into Jerusalem, coming to the Israeli parliament. They've been setting up a human chain from the old city, from the western wall, the holiest site for Jews, all the way here until the parliament and the supreme court. 
 
And that's because the debate has started on this piece of legislation. This legislation would strip the Israeli Supreme Court's ability to declare government actions unreasonable. Essentially, canceling them out. Keep in mind that the Israeli parliament, because it's a parliamentary system, the party that controls the coalition is also the government. There's no other check on the power other than the supreme court. And that's why the protest is out here because they fear that if this legislation passes this vote that is expected to take place tomorrow, that could mean the beginning of the end of the judiciary, the beginning of the end of checks on power on the Israeli government. 
 
Benjamin Netanyahu and his government have been -- have given no indication that they're stepping back. This despite the fact, as you know, that Benjamin Netanyahu, late in the middle of the night, was rushed to the hospital in order to put in a pacemaker. This after a heart monitor detected a problem. He was implanted with a heart monitor just the other week after what was -- what was at the time deemed dehydration. Now it turns out that he did faint during that episode,  was implanted with a heart monitor, and now has a pacemaker. The justice minister had to take over briefly while he was under sedation for this procedure. 
 
But despite the pressure from the protesters, including more than -- including thousands of military and air force reservists who said they will not serve, they will not heed the call to serve if this legislation passes. Despite all of that pressure, Benjamin Netanyahu and his -- and his governing coalition do say that they still plan to move ahead with the association and have these votes pass. 
 
I asked protesters here, what will happen? What will you do if this legislation passes? They say they will stay here. They stay in this tent city. They will stay on the streets because they really feel as though they are fighting for the soul of this country. Guys? 
 
BLACKWELL: All right, Hadas Gold with the reporting for us. Thank you so much. 
 
Artificial intelligence has taken on a bigger role on the big screen. And now, actors guilds fear it would upend Hollywood. Coming up, CNN takes a look at one of the new ways the technology is being used and what it means for the industry's future. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:40:00]
 
BLACKWELL: Hollywood film studios are always working on new ways to use artificial intelligence to improve their movies. And it's now a major sticking point for actors and writers on the picket line.
 
WALKER: CNN's Donie O'Sullivan takes a closer look at how new A.I. technology is already allowing directors to make changes to a performer's looks and sound. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRIS WALLACE, CNN ANCHOR: Through some technological wizardry, 80- year-old Harrison Ford looks exactly like 40-year-old Harrison Ford. Do you understand how they did that?
 
HARRISON FORD, ACTOR: Not completely.
 
DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): In the latest Indiana Jones movie, Harrison Ford is de-aged for a flashback where he fights the Nazis. Ford explains how the movies makers use artificial intelligence for part of the process. 
 
FORD: So, they have this library of images, and they can mine it with artificial intelligence for a position of my face, for the light, for where -- and then I put little balls on my face, and I say the words. And then they take that part and they stick it in that part. But it's perfect. It's not like the photoshopping de-aging. It's my actual face at that actual age.
 
O'SULLIVAN (voiceover): Toronto-based special effects company Marz, which did not work on the Indiana Jones movie, uses A.I. in a different way. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: What does Mars stand for?
 
MATT PANOUSIS, COO, MARZ: Monsters, aliens, robots, and zombies.
 
O'SULLIVAN: I think that's the best name I've heard for a company. 
 
PANOUSIS: Thank you. This is where we started. It's an automated solution for cosmetic and de-aging work. 
 
O'SULLIVAN (voiceover): The latest Spider-Man movie released in 2021 features villains like the Green Goblin and Doctor Otto Octavius, characters who haven't been seen in years. 
 
JONATHAN BRONFMAN, CEO, MARZ: So, they took the villains from previous versions of Spider-Man movies, and they wanted to bring them back in that moment than when they originally performed that character. So, without naming names, we helped Marvel do that on a certain character. 
 
O'SULLIVAN (voiceover): Mars says it's de-aging A.I. technology, knocks thousands of manhours off the visual effects process, but they say they aren't killing jobs. 
 
BRONFMAN: The demand for visual effects way outstrips the supplies. But they're a finite number of artists in the world that are able to execute on that demand. 
 
O'SULLIVAN (voiceover): Marz has also built-in A.I. dubbing tool aiming to make awkward out-of-sync voice-overs like these a thing of the past. Marz uses deep fake technology to reconstruct an actor's lips to match the dubbed audio. They tried it out on me. First, we sent them the short clip I shot in a CNN studio. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: I've always been terrible at speaking any language other than English. In fact, I struggle with English sometimes. 
 
O'SULLIVAN (voiceover): With that, they were able to do this. 
 <br>[06:45:09]
 
O'SULLIVAN: That is very impressive. My lips look French. 
 
O'SULLIVAN (voiceover): This technology can even put other people's words in your mouth. 
 
A.I. MODIFIED VOICE: But what I do have are a very particular set of skills. If you let my daughter go now, that will be the end of it. I will not look for you. I will not pursue you. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: My fellow Irishmen as well. 
 
PANOUSIS: LipDub was built for the purpose of allowing studios to take content in their native tongue and put that content across the globe in a way where it looks native to the viewer. 
 
O'SULLIVAN (voiceover): For it's part, Marz says it is not in the business of replacing actors. Its technology is meant to enhance performances, not create them. 
 
FORD: I think it's not a question of the technology, it's how you use it. 
 
TOM HANKS, ACTOR: Look, you know, I could be hit by a bus tomorrow and that's it, but my performances can go on and on and on and on and on. And outside of the understanding that it's been done with A.I. or deep fake, there'll be nothing to tell you that it's not me and me alone. 
 
O'SULLIVAN (voiceover): Fears of how A.I. will be used is partly why SAG-AFTRA, the actor's union, is on strike, saying the studios want to replace them with artificial performances. The movie studios are pushing back on that claim. 
 
BRONFMAN: Technology cannot replace an actor full-on. So you cannot go head to toe and redo the entire face and expect that to be photoreal. The technology just isn't there right now. Now, as it relates to writers, I think they can more easily be replaced by artificial intelligence. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALKER: All right, it's -- I mean, look, it's a double-edged sword, right? I mean, and you can intend as a technology company for A.I. to enhance an actor, but I'm sure technology will develop at some point to replace them, right? So, you've got to be careful. 
 
BLACKWELL: I find it fascinating what happened with Donie here and these dubs. And I get the idea that you want when you send these programs overseas to see more native. It seems like a great idea. But as you say, it can be dangerous. 
 
WALKER: Boundaries. 
 
BLACKWELL: Yes. 
 
WALKER: Yes.
 
BLACKWELL: Thank you, Donie.
 
WALKER: Still ahead, the French women's soccer team is hoping to prove a point on the pitch as it kicks off its World Cup campaign this morning. But it's now a viral online video that's already making a statement.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:50:00]
 
BLACKWELL: Here's the final round of the British Open. And a couple of Americans are looking for their first major leading -- they're leading the way. 
 
WALKER: Yes. Carolyn Manno joining us. Hi, Carolyn. Brian Harman overcame a shaky start in a historic round by another player. And he enters the day with a pretty commanding lead. 
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, hi! Good morning, you guys. You know, over the last four decades, only 11 golfers have led by at least five strokes heading into the final round of the major, and nine of those went on to win. So, all that to say, Brian Harman pretty much has it in the bag unless there's an epic meltdown to come, but it is far from over thanks to Spain's John Rahm. 
 
The two-time major champion had a round for the ages at Royal Liverpool yesterday, shooting in eight under par 63, including seven birdies on the final nine holes, setting the record for the course during the open and still Rahm finds himself six strokes back of Brian Harman. The 36-year-old from Savannah, Georgia displaying incredible resilience after bogeying two of the first four holes. He answered with four birdies the rest of the way on the way to a two under 69. 
 
So, Harman is 12 under. He's five shots clear of fellow American, Cameron Young, who carded a 566 on Saturday, not too shabby. And Harman talked about overcoming that shaky start. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIAN HARMAN, PROFESSIONAL GOLFER: You'd be lying if you said that I'm not nervous. The first few holes, everyone's nervous. So, I was just trying to do my best to settle down and to just go through my routine and hit good shots. I'm just trying to stay gritty out there. I knew it was going to be tough at some point, and I'm really proud of the way that I hung in there and made some really good swings on the back down. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO: It's going to be a fun day. Women's World Cup now. 2019 runner- up Netherlands handling business against World Cup debutante, Portugal. Stefanie van der Gragt breaking the scoreless tie with a controversial goal in the 13th minute, VAR overturning the initial offside call. So, that would be all the orange needed, winning 1-0. And that sets up a rematch of the 2019 final against the United States women Wednesday night, 9:00 p.m. Eastern with control of Group E on the line. I know we will all be watching. 
 
And in the meantime, France and Jamaica scoreless at halftime of their opening match right now. But if you haven't seen this, check this out. The French team went viral this week thanks to an incredible new advertisement by the French telecom company, Orange. So, the ad depicts French men's stars, like Antoine Griezmann and Kylian Mbappe, scoring these spectacular goals only to eventually reveal who is really responsible for these highlights. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MANNO: No, guys, I know Donie was just talking about how some of this deepfake A.I. technology that's being used. This is a fascinating thought-provoking commercial, just seeing these spectacular highlights that we're accustomed to seeing come from the men's side only to find out that all of these plays, in fact, belong to the women that we're seeing on the world stage right now. We just thought it was so fascinating. 
 
WALKER: Yes. My eyes are glued to the screen. It is really thought- provoking, right? Because what would the reaction be if, you know, you knew that these are really the women's moves? 
 <br>[06:55:02]
 
BLACKWELL: Well played.
 
WALKER: Yes.
 
BLACKWELL: Wow, that is -- that's a smart way to relay that message. Carolyn Manno, thanks so much for bringing it to us. 
 
So, up next, this is bizarre. This is crazy. Some folks on a beach in Florida find -- let's call it seaweed.
 
WALKER: It's not seaweed?
 
BLACKWELL: No.
 
WALKER: Oh.
 
BLACKWELL: See -- you see where we're going here? 
 
WALKER: It just hit me. 
 
BLACKWELL: It certainly is not the kind you're thinking of. We've got details after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLACKWELL: So, have you figured it out since the tease on the other side of the break? 
 
WALKER: Yes.
 
BLACKWELL: This is not the typical seaweed that you find on the shore. Police say a large amount of loose marijuana, some flour, washed up onto Neptune Beach, Florida on Saturday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There was pot, just marijuana all up and down here. If they'd have been all put together compacted, it probably would have been probably five or ten pounds. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know, I did pick it up and smell to see. And it was weed, so I was like, OK, that's kind of crazy. 
 <br>[07:00:00]