Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Search For Answers To What Caused Sub Implosion; India's Prime Minister Honored With State Dinner In The U.S.; Migrant Accounts On Boat Tragedy Casting Doubt On Official Accounts; Ukraine Pushes Back On Doubts About Its Counteroffensive Against Russia; Former President Obama Speaks About Biden And Fight For Democracy; Sierra Leone Caught In Economic Crisis Ahead Of Vote. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired June 23, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:36]
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Becky Anderson, live from Abu Dhabi this evening. This is CONNECT THE WORLD. It is 6:00 in the evening here. 
 
Coming up this hour, more details emerging about why a sub bound for the Titanic suffered a catastrophic implosion. What caused a fishing boat with 
 
 over 700 migrants on board to capsize more than a week ago with hundreds feared drowned. CNN gets firsthand accounts from survivors. 
 
India's prime minister meet CEOs of American Indian tech companies after a rare address to the U.S. Congress. And Rory McIlroy sends the golfing 
 
 crowds wild with just one shot. 
 
Well, what exactly happened? That is the question being asked about the Titan submersible after it suffered what officials are calling a 
 
 catastrophic implosion near the wreckage of the Titanic. The disaster killed the five people on board. The U.S. Navy says it detected sounds on 
 
 Sunday consistent with an implosion. 
 
Special equipment is continuing to scour the Atlantic Ocean floor where both ends of the vessel's pressure hull have now been found. 
 
CNN's Paula Newton is in Halifax, Nova Scotia in Canada. 
 
Paula, what are the details as we understand them at this point? 
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: As we understand it, given the fact that they were able to get that remote operated vehicle down to the seabed 
 
 yesterday, and it was able to conclusively identify that debris from the Titan, what they are determining now is what exactly occurred in terms of 
 
 it being what they call a catastrophic implosion. At issue here was that more than one event or one singular event on the Titan that caused this 
 
 implosion. 
 
Now what is being debated now is exactly how much of that debris to try and bring to the surface. While a lot of assets especially in the air that have 
 
 been brought to bear on this search have now pulled back now that this is a salvage and recovery operation. And they are still debating whether or not 
 
 to deploy more sophisticated salvage equipment out there to try and retrieve the debris. 
 
But everything you need to know, Becky, is in the issue of it being a catastrophic implosion. How much debris is there, how much evident can be 
 
 retrieved, and is it worth continuing these deep-sea dives? 
 
Now, in the meantime, Becky, certainly we can't lose sight of the fact that this really is a personal tragedy for so many on board that Titan. Five 
 
 passengers, all of them deeply committed to deep-sea travel. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAUL-HENRI NARGEOLET, MADE 30 PLUS DIVES TO TITANIC: The 24th of July, 1987 was my first dive to the Titanic with two team members. And it was an 
 
 unforgettable moment. 
 
NEWTON (voice-over): That was Paul-Henri Nargeolet, a 77-year-old Frenchman who made more than 30 dives to the Titanic, earning him the nickname Mr. 
 
 Titanic. David Gallo is Nargeolet's close friend, colleague, and an oceanographer himself. 
 
DAVID GALLO, OCEANOGRAPHER AND FRIEND OF NARGEOLET: I'm sure he did everything he could or would do everything he could do to make sure that 
 
 they had every chance of surviving whatever it was. 
 
NEWTON: For Stockton Rush, the chief executive of the firm behind the dive, who was also on board, the experience of those involved was always crucial 
 
 to the mission. 
 
STOCKTON RUSH, CEO, OCEANGATE: There are five individuals can go on each dive. Three of those are what we call mission specialists. So those are the 
 
 folks who help finance the mission, but they are also active participants. So why we're not a fan of the tourist term is because these are crew 
 
 members. 
 
NEWTON: One of those crew members is the British billionaire and explorer, Hamish Harding. Part of two record breaking trips to the South Pole, he 
 
 also held a world record for the fastest circumnavigation of the globe via both poles. Last year, he went into space with Jeff Bezos' Blue Origin 
 
 company. 
 
HAMISH HARDING, BILLIONAIRE EXPLORER: I've always wanted to do this and the sheer experience of looking out of the window is something I'm looking 
 
 forward to. 
 
NEWTON: In a post on social media before the dive, he described feeling proud to be part of the Titan's expedition. 
 
Also on board, Shahzada Dawood, who comes from one of Pakistan's richest families and lived in the U.K. with his wife and two children. 
 <br>[10:05:04]
 
He'd taken his son, Suleman, just 19 years old, along with him. A family statement asked for privacy and prayers when the sub went missing. 
 
A search that was called impossible now over. The Titan and the five people on board now lie at the bottom of the ocean. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON: You know, Becky, certainly the family and friends also want to get to the bottom of this and actually ascertain what happened in those moments 
 
 after they lost communication. But right now it is the tributes that are coming in and these five are being remembered for the lives that they've 
 
 led and certainly all of them, as I said, were hoping for an exhilarating trip to the wreck of the Titanic -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: Paula, the cofounder of OceanGate, the operator of that sub, has cautioned against rushing to any conclusions about what happened. But we 
 
 are and had heard and are hearing that there were safety concerns. What do we know? 
 
NEWTON: You know, that issue is two sides of this coin, right, and you mentioned that cofounder, Guillermo Sohnlein, who said basically to CNN 
 
 that, look, Stockton Rush, who we just talked about, too, was the CEO and cofounder along with him was what he describes as a very capable risk 
 
 manager. I mean, look, he was on the Titan, he wouldn't have done anything he says that would've been dangerous lives. 
 
Having said that we also interviewed James Cameron who himself is quite an expert on these kinds of dives and has made unprecedented deep-sea 
 
 excursions to places no one has been to the depths of the earth. Having said that, he says that this composite material on the Titan, which was 
 
 carbon fiber and titanium that he would have never entertained going on that kind of submersible. 
 
Becky, all of these details will be things that will be incorporated in the coming investigation. An investigation we're still waiting to hear details 
 
 about. 
 
ANDERSON: Absolutely, Paula, thank you. India's prime minister will have lunch today with the U.S. vice president and the secretary of state, as he 
 
 closes out his state visit to Washington. Narendra Modi will also meet with U.S. business leaders aimed at strengthening ties between allies concerned 
 
 about China's growing, global footprint. 
 
This is only the third state visit that Joe Biden has extended during his presidency underscoring perhaps the importance of U.S.-India ties for this 
 
 administration. 
 
Manny Raju connecting us from Washington. 
 
Joe Biden, Manu, describing this partnership as a defining one for the 21st century. The Indian prime minister describing it as somewhat of a reset. 
 
 Explain if you will. 
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. This has actually been one of the key messages that Narendra Modi and as well as Joe Biden 
 
 have espoused during this trip that things have changed since the last century in which India was more aligned with Russia during the Cold War. 
 
 Now the U.S. sees India as vital in trying to combat the growing threat from China. And Modi making clear to the United States Congress that this 
 
 is -- that the United States and India are significant partners when it comes to defense and on national security issues and the U.S. being India's 
 
 biggest trading partner. 
 
Now India also has maintained a neutrality in the war in Ukraine which has intended to allow itself to employ what they call strategic ambivalence in 
 
 dealing with both its an alliance with Russia and its alliance with the United States. And when in talking to members of Congress yesterday in his 
 
 joint meeting with the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate, Modi made some comments related to Ukraine and its hope for not a period of endless wars. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NARENDRA MODI, INDIAN PRIME MINISTER: Mister Speaker, the doubt clouds of coercion and confrontation are casting their shadow in the Indo Pacific. 
 
 The last few years have seen deeply disruptive developments. With the Ukraine conflict, war has returned to Europe. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Now Modi was mostly greeted warmly by members of Congress who did attend the address and by his supporters who were in the gallery who were 
 
 chanting Modi, Modi, Modi throughout the speech during key applause lines. But there were members of the United States House Democratic members, 
 
 members who are more liberal, who boycotted this address concerned about Modi's record when it comes to human rights and other issues in dealing 
 
 with religious minorities in India. 
 
When Modi was asked about that at the White House yesterday, he pushed back, intended that there is no backsliding in India with regard to 
 
 democracy given that India is the world's largest democracy. 
 <br>[10:10:06]
 
But that has been part of the subtext of his visit here and an issue that Joe Biden himself brought up with Modi behind closed doors, about the issue 
 
 and importance of human rights. Modi claiming that he is on the same page with the United States -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: Manu Raju is on the Hill for you. Manu, thank you. 
 
Pakistan now says at least 350 of its nationals were on board the migrant boat that collapsed and capsized off the coast of Greece last week leaving 
 
 hundreds feared drowned. The interior minister said on Friday only 12 Pakistanis survived. The official death toll from Greek authorities still 
 
 stands at just 82. 
 
We're also learning more about what happened in the hours before that boat sank. Survivors have told CNN the Greek coast guard was attempting to tow 
 
 the vessel when it capsized. This contradicts the official version of events. 
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh has been investigating and she joins me now live -- Jomana. 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, Becky, the Mediterranean is the deadliest route for migrants and refugees worldwide. 
 
 And year after year we continue to report on these tragedies in the Mediterranean that has become known as the migrant and refugee graveyard. 
 
And while there is a long list of who is to blame for these tragedies and who bears responsibility for what is happening, when you look at this one 
 
 incident last week that right now appears to have been one of the deadliest ever where you mentioned at least 82 people have been confirmed dead, and 
 
 you have more than 500 so far who are unaccounted for, believed and presumed to be dead at this point, we investigated this incident speaking 
 
 with survivors, families of victims, as well as activists. 
 
And we have also gathered data from marine traffic tracking as well as open source data. And you put it all together and it really raises serious 
 
 questions about the Greek version of events. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): The desperate, exhausting wait for the promise of a new life in Europe. These Pakistanis crammed into a small room by smugglers 
 
 in Libya. Some of them believed to be among the hundreds presumed dead. These last images before they embarked on their ill-fated journey. 
 
About 750 refugees and migrants were packed into this fishing vessel bound for Italy before it capsized off the coast of Greece. Only 104 survived and 
 
 with them the harrowing accounts of what they've been through. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I can still hear the voice of a woman calling out for help. You would swim and move the floating bodies out 
 
 of your way. 
 
KARADSHEH: The Syrian survivor spoke to us from Greece. He asked for his identity to be concealed for security reasons. It's another account 
 
 obtained by CNN not only contradict the official Greek version of events but point to fault on the part of the Greek coast guard. 
 
(On-camera): Greek authorities who watched and were in communication with the boat for an entire day insist that it was not in distress and refused 
 
 assistance. Our investigation tells a very different story. 
 
(Voice-over): Just before 1:00 p.m. on June 13th, the boat was first spotted by the E.U.'s border patrol agency Frontex which says it notified 
 
 Greek authorities of a, quote, "heavily overcrowded fishing vessel." Those on board were in distress, lost at sea with no food or water for days 
 
 according to survivors and activists in touch with the boat throughout the day. 
 
At about 7:00 p.m. an activists in Italy recorded one of the calls capturing the horror on board. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through text translation): Can I notify the coast guard that six people died? 
 
KARADSHEH: As activists repeatedly relayed calls for a rescue to authorities, two merchant vessels approached the boat, instructed by the 
 
 Greek coast guard to provide the boat with food and water. But as darkness fell at 10:40 p.m., a Greek coast guard vessel moves in. Now the only ship 
 
 on the scene. Three hours later, the haunting last words from the boat to the activist group alarm phone. Hello, my friend, the ship you send is -- 
 
 and the line cuts out. 
 
What happened next is likely to raise more questions as the investigations continue. Survivors tell us it was a botched attempt by the Greek coast 
 
 guard to tow their boat that caused it to capsize. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): They decided to throw us a rope, so the guys at the front tied it. They towed us, the boat tilted to the right 
 
 and everyone was screaming. 
 <br>[10:15:03]
 
People began falling into the sea and the boat capsized. People couldn't get out from under the boat. 
 
KARADSHEH: The Greek coast guard have declined our request for an interview but in previous comments, they've denied towing the trollers saying when 
 
 the boat capsized we were not even next to it. How could we be towing it? Instead they blamed a, quote, "shift in weight probably caused by panic." 
 
For years Greek authorities have been accused of systematically and violently pushing back migrants and refugees. Video like this one released 
 
 by the Turkish government captured the now well-documented practice Greece denies. This deadly incident is not just about what they may have done, 
 
 it's also about what they didn't do. 
 
VINCENT COCHETEL, UNHCR SPECIAL ENVOY FOR THE CENTRAL MEDITERRANEAN: It was clear it was unseaworthy. It was clear that is part of a trafficking 
 
 movement from Libya to Europe. So the authorities have the responsibility to intervene to save life. 
 
KARADSHEH: As fortress Europe hardens its immigration policies to deter some of the world's most vulnerable, this disaster will almost certainly 
 
 not be the last. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH: And you know, Becky, very clearly the strategies of deterrence by European countries are not working. And what we're seeing right now, 
 
 according to activists, U.N. officials and others we have spoken to is these new patterns that are emerging where smugglers and traffickers are 
 
 trying to get around this deterrence that is being put in place. What you're seeing is more and more ships, vessels like this one, fishing boats 
 
 that are leaving from eastern Libya. 
 
There has been a 600 percent increase so far this year in these departures. And what we're also seeing is a very disturbing pattern, according to 
 
 officials we've spoken to, they say coastal countries including Greece are accused of not wanting to deal with these arrivals and not wanting to deal 
 
 with rescues. 
 
It's not only pushing them back towards Libya, they are facilitating and accused of facilitating these journeys towards Italy. Providing these boats 
 
 with food, water, fuel, and pushing them towards Italy that is seeing a huge number of arrivals this year. And the fear and concern right now is 
 
 that we are going to be seeing more and more of these incidents and catastrophic loss of life -- Becky. 
 
ANDERSON: Jomana, Europe's policy on migrant rescues at seas you rightly point out is being grossly, called grossly inadequate by rights agencies. 
 
 Many also citing double standards and a lack of response in this incident compared to the multi-country response of course to the Titans sub in the 
 
 Atlantic. 
 
We will continue to follow exactly what Europe intends to do about its policy on sea rescues and its policy on migrants and asylum seekers as the 
 
 days go by. Thank you very much indeed. CNN investigates. 
 
Well, village by village, Ukraine is pushing ahead with its painstaking drive to take back territory from Russia. But some suggest the 
 
 counteroffensive isn't going fast enough. Kyiv's response is just ahead. Plus former U.S. President Barack Obama calls the war in Ukraine a wake-up 
 
 call for Europe and the world. His take on the current state of democracy in an exclusive interview with Christiane Amanpour. That is after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:20:50]
 
ANDERSON: We've just started to fight. That message from a top Ukrainian official telling CNN that the main thrust of its counteroffensive against 
 
 Russia has not even begun in earnest yet. And that it's, quote, "way too early to judge whether it will be successful." 
 
All this after Western officials told CNN that the push is not meeting expectations. Ukraine's deputy defense minister says the military is 
 
 making, quote, "gradual progress and moving forward every day." 
 
CNN's Nic Robertson is in London where donors, Nic, pledge more money for Ukraine once this war is over. But there does seem to be a big disconnect 
 
 between what allies think should be happening on the ground at this point in these battlefields and what is actually going on. Just explain. 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, I think President Zelenskyy referenced it a couple of days ago when he said it's not quite 
 
 going as speedily as expected. But he made a point and the prime minister made a point, both in speeches over the past couple of days, saying look, 
 
 this isn't Hollywood. And that really resonates with what I heard in Ukraine on the frontline, from frontline commanders, frontline soldiers, as 
 
 well as officials in Kyiv. 
 
They say, look, this is a real war. This is not easy. The fight isn't easy. Russia is dug in. So it's not a simple case of having all this weaponry and 
 
 some training from friends and partners and allies. If you remember back to the end of April, Jens Stoltenberg, secretary-general of NATO, said Ukraine 
 
 has received 98 percent of those 1550 armored vehicles and the 230 tanks it's going to receive. So there is a sense in Ukraine's side at least that 
 
 there's a perception outside that this is going to be. 
 
And for them it's not going to be easy, it's going to be a very tough life. Russia also has weapons. It also has a lot of soldiers. It's also dug in. 
 
 So I think what we're seeing right now and what we're hearing is this sort of sense of this perception difference being bridged and this is what the 
 
 pushback I think we're getting from Kyiv at the moment by the deputy defense minister who's quoting there, also saying that, look, we haven't 
 
 used our full force yet. It's still there to be had. 
 
Don't count us out of the game. There are still a big attack left in the counteroffensive. And to a degree we've heard that from President Putin as 
 
 well. His analysis a couple of days ago was Ukraine still has the capability and capacity to have a big punch in its counteroffensive. So I 
 
 think there was so much buildup to a counteroffensive, but now the reality is this is a long slow battle. 
 
I mean, compared it if you will to, you know, World War II, the invasion of Normandy. It was hundreds of thousands of troops. It didn't happen quickly. 
 
 It was hugely difficult. The losses were really high and in essence this is a fight where Russia has more than Ukraine, weapons and men. And Ukraine is 
 
 a smaller fighter looking for that chance, that opening that they are trying to shape for in these shaping operations that they stay is still 
 
 ongoing. 
 
ANDERSON: Nic Robertson, who has been in and out of Ukraine over the last 16 months, back in London, and with his analysis today. 
 
Nic, thank you. 
 
Former U.S. President Barack Obama says the war in Ukraine is a wakeup call to democracies around the world. He talked about that during what was an 
 
 exclusive in-depth interview with CNN's Christiane Amanpour. They also talked about Joe Biden's chances of winning a second term as U.S. 
 
 president. Have a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: President Biden is running for reelection. 
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: Yes. 
 
AMANPOUR: Everybody is talking about his age, people talking about his polls. Even there are some challenges within the Democrats, maybe somebody 
 
 who might start to, you know, to try to primary him, et cetera. But what I would like to know is many say that his policies and his legislatives and 
 
 his wins frankly should speak for themselves. 
 
And yet, according to the Way to Win, it's a Democrat-leaning company, firm, only some 22 percent of Latino voters, 33 percent of black voters can 
 
 actually identify something that they say he's started specifically make their lives better. 
 <br>[10:25:06]
 
What would you say to that and would you -- how would you advise them to connect in a reelection? 
 
OBAMA: I think Joe Biden has done an extraordinary job, leading the country through some very difficult times. I do not think that there's going to be 
 
 any kind of serious primary challenge to Joe Biden. I think the Democratic Party is unified. You know, there was a lot of talk, you all remember when 
 
 he was first elected because Bernie Sanders had run that somehow there's this huge split between progressive Democrats and more centrist Democrats. 
 
And the truth is that partly because of how Joe has governed. Those divisions have been bridged. I think what's true in American politics 
 
 generally is until you get to campaigns, people aren't paying much attention. People have gone through a difficult time because of COVID and 
 
 the pandemic and lockdowns. Because of inflation primarily in the result of both the war in Ukraine and rising energy prices as well as supply chain 
 
 issues. 
 
And so people have memories about, OK, eggs got more expensive and gas was more expensive. And they hadn't been paying as much attention to the fact 
 
 that, for example, the African-American unemployment rate is lower than it's been in decades. The campaign will allow President Biden to make those 
 
 arguments. And I think that, you know, in a media environment that's so cluttered, it's very hard to break through until you get to election time. 
 
You'll recall when I ran for reelection in 2012 my poll numbers weren't that great and we ended up winning comfortably. Part of that was just 
 
 restarted the campaigning. And we were able to get a message out and people said, yes, you know, that policy or this policy or this thing left undone, 
 
 that irritated me a little bit. But overall, I think he's done a good job and I think that's what they're going to conclude by Joe Biden as well. 
 
AMANPOUR: When Russia started this illegal invasion, the second invasion of Ukraine, I believe you said that democracies -- it's a clarion call, it's a 
 
 wakeup call, democracies are getting flabby and feckless. Where does Ukraine in your view stand in the fight to preserve democracy? 
 
OBAMA: I think it's vital. It's interesting, before I left office, I gave speeches not just here in Athens but also in Hamburg, in London, and one of 
 
 the arguments I made is do not take for granted the extraordinary achievement of the European Union. And the fact that a continent that was 
 
 wrecked by war and bloodshed for centuries was now as prosperous and as peaceful as any in history. 
 
And then now, we've seen the first war on European soil in recent memory and I think it was a wakeup call to Europe. And I think it was a wakeup 
 
 call to the West and to democracies around the world that the old ways of thinking might makes right, big countries can do what they want to small 
 
 countries. That, you know, people cannot independently determine their futures. That those forces have to be confronted. 
 
Watching the Ukrainians themselves with such courage and bravery fight back, I think that reminded Europe of who they were. And I have been 
 
 impressed by the degree to which in not easy circumstances, Europe has stood up, it has provided the aid that was necessary. I think the Biden 
 
 administration has very deftly managed, maintaining that alliance to support Ukraine. And I believe the stakes are high to send a message to 
 
 somebody like Putin that they are not going to just be able to willy-nilly determine the borders of other countries. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: And you can see Christiane's full interview with the former U.S. President Barack Obama, a CNN exclusive, coming up 6:00 p.m. London Time. 
 
 That is 9:00 p.m. if you are watching for example in Abu Dhabi. 
 
Well, just ahead, James Cameron tells CNN he had a hunch about the Titan sub disaster. Hear what the Oscar-winning filmmaker had to say. That is 
 
 just ahead. And voters head to the polls this weekend in one of Africa's most troubled economies. But will they vote for change? More on that is 
 
 after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:32:29]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. It is just after half past 6:00 here in Dubai this evening. You are watching CONNECT THE WORLD. Wherever you are watching you 
 
 are more than welcome. 
 
Your headlines this hour. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have lunch with U.S. vice president and the secretary of state on what is the 
 
 final day of his state visit to Washington. He'll also meet with U.S. business leaders. Mr. Modi and President Joe Biden praised each other at 
 
 what was a lavish state dinner Thursday night as both leaders looked to counter China's growing influence. 
 
Well, Ukraine's counteroffensive against Russia hasn't started in earnest, not yet, and it could take until four or winter to know if it's successful. 
 
 That is what a top Ukrainian official tells CNN after Western allies criticized the push is not meeting expectations. 
 
Well, more pieces are coming to light in the investigation into the Titan tragedy. Officials say both ends of the sub's pressure hull have been found 
 
 near the Titanic shipwreck. Well, authorities say the vessel suffered a catastrophic implosion, killing all five on board. 
 
Well, the director of the film "Titanic" James Cameron is himself a deep- sea explorer with more than 30 trips to that Titanic wreckage. He spoke to CNN about the submersible's fateful expedition. Have a listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES CAMERON, DIRECTOR, "TITANIC": I think there is a great, almost surreal irony here which is Titanic sank because the captain took it full 
 
 steam into an ice field at night, on a moonless night with very poor visibility. After he had been repeatedly warned by telegram by Marconigram, 
 
 by radio during the day that that's what was ahead of him. And so I think we are also seeing a parallel here with unheeded warnings about a sub that 
 
 was not certified, where the entire deep submergence community actually -- or not the entire community but a large number of them got together to 
 
 write a letter to OceanGate, the company, and say we believe that this could lead to catastrophe. 
 
We didn't remember the lesson of Titanic. These guys at OceanGate didn't, because the arrogance and the hubris that sent that ship to its doom is 
 
 exactly the same thing that sent those people and that sub to their fate. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, that's James Cameron, the director of the film Titanic of course. Officials will now try to figure out what exactly happened and how 
 
 to prevent it happening again. 
 <br>[10:35:06]
 
Well, a nation in economic crisis heads to the polls this week. The people of Sierra Leone vote on Saturday on a new president and parliament. 
 
 President Julius Maada Bio is expected to win a second term despite massive unemployment and runaway inflation. They're seeing the price of many foods 
 
 double or tripling in recent years. Mr. Bio is one of 13 candidates on the ballot. He needs to win 55 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff. 
 
For the preview of Saturday's vote then here's CNN's Stephanie Busari. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): These Sierra Leonians are calling out for change as the West African state heads to the polls to 
 
 elect a new president on June 24th. Among the issues citizens are battling, a soaring cost of living and massive unemployment with inflation sitting at 
 
 around 37 percent in April, according to the IMF. 
 
AMINATA FANTA KOROMA, OPPOSITION PARTY MEMBER: The country is not so tight and we are not seeing any prospects that these things are coming down. The 
 
 (INAUDIBLE) inflation is very high. African is very high. 
 
BUSARI: Around 3.3 million, less than half the population, are registered to vote in this, the fifth election since the end of the country's brutal 
 
 decade-long civil war 21 years ago. And yet at the current state of the country spilling over in August last year with more than 20 people killed 
 
 in anti-government protests across Sierra Leone. 
 
Incumbent President Julius Maada Bio's view of those protests. 
 
JULIUS MAADA BIO, PRESIDENT OF SIERRA LEONE: This was not a protest against the high cost of living. The chant of the insurrectionists also a violent 
 
 overthrow of the democratically elected government. 
 
BUSARI: Former Sierra Leonean child soldier turned author and human rights activist Ishmael Beah says the mood in the country is not hopeful. 
 
ISHMAEL BEAH, AUTHOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVIST: Even as we lean towards election the security situation has gotten tense in the way that you have 
 
 more presence of armed police, armed military, that are basically patrolling the streets as if going to an election is also going to war. 
 
BUSARI: Among the 12 candidates challenging Maada Bio in the general election is the leader of the opposition All People's Congress Party, 
 
 Samura Kamara. 
 
SAMURA KAMARA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I want to call all Sierra Leoneans to come out and vote on the 24th, come rain, come sunshine, come the usual 
 
 barrage of bullets, or come anything else, to protect their votes. 
 
BUSARI: The 72-year-old former cabinet minister is facing trial on corruption charges, which he denies. If convicted, Kamara would be barred 
 
 from holding public office. He appeared before court in April but the case has been adjourned until after the general election. 
 
Fifty-nine-year-old Maada Bio, seen here dancing in the rain on the campaign trail, has promised if reelected to feed the nation and create 
 
 half a million jobs for young people in five years. For the people of a country that has faced so much tragedy, its future is by no means decided. 
 
Stephanie Busari, CNN, Lagos. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Right. You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson. 
 
Still ahead this hour, Rory McIlroy may not be leading the PGA Tour at the moment but he's got an excellent reason to be rather pleased with himself 
 
 after Thursday's performance. Details on that coming up on our sports update. And this piece of Star Wars fashion could be yours for, well, quite 
 
 a lot of money. We are sorry but Jedi mind tricks and galactic credits not enough. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:41:24]
 
ANDERSON: Well, that famous dress worn by Carrie Fisher in the final scenes of "Star Wars Episode Four" is hitting the auction block. The 1977 iconic 
 
 gown could go for millions when bidding closes next Wednesday. It was thought that the dress had been lost but after a decades long search it was 
 
 eventually found in a London attic. 
 
Prophouse Auction says the dress has been meticulously restored by professional textile conservators in London. The auction house initially 
 
 thought the dress would get a million dollars but the estimates are now up to two and a half. 
 
Well, for everything he's won and done there's been a career first for Rory McIlroy in Connecticut. Something that's given him reason to cheer and got 
 
 him a very solid round of applause from spectators. 
 
Amanda Davies with more -- Amanda. 
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN'S WORLD SPORT ANCHOR: Yes, Rory McIlroy turned pro in 2007. 122 weeks as the world's number one, four major titles to his name. 
 
 And it took until yesterday for him to hit a career first, a hole-in-one, on the PGA Tour. 
 
Look at what it meant to him. It's the moment that every golfer, however amateur, however good you are, always dreams about. It was the eighth hole 
 
 par three at the Travelers Championship in Connecticut. It is opening round. But for the highlight of that he's got some way to go to be giving 
 
 the leaders a run for his money. He finished the day to two under par, the latest at the moment 14 under, although he has made a decent start to day 
 
 two. 
 
ANDERSON: Oh, well. 
 
DAVIES: But, Becky, coming up in a couple of minutes, we're looking ahead a big night in the NBA draft. Victor Wembanyama who is stealing all the 
 
 headlines, the top draft pick, when you saw that Princess Leia dress, it might be something he wants to spend his new bonus on because we heard from 
 
 Omar Jimenez earlier he is a huge Star Wars fan. So perhaps a way to celebrate his new life in the NBA. 
 
ANDERSON: Oh, well, we've got a price tag. But it is an auction. So it could go higher, let's see. Great, good to have you. Looking forward to it. 
 
 "WORLD SPORT" is up after this short break. We're back top of the hour for you, folks. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:46:28]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 
END