Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: The Coronation Of King Charles III; King And Queen Receive Flypast From Military Aircraft; King Charles III And Queen Camilla Formally Crowned; Royals Return To Buckingham Palace Balcony To Greet Public; Goddaughter Of King Charles III Reflects On His Coronation. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired May 06, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:00:24]
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: And welcome back to London and CNN special coverage of this historic event, the coronation of King Charles III and Queen Camilla. The royal family is now at Buckingham Palace and in just a few minutes, will head out onto the balcony to greet 10s of 1000s of people below. It will surely be an iconic image. We've already seen so many of those special moments today including this one when King Charles was officially crowned.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: God save the King.
 
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: God save the King.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COOPER: Queen Camilla was crowned shortly after and moved to sit next to her husband. And then Prince William now first in line for the throne kneeled before his father pledging his loyalty to the new monarch and kissing him on the cheek before changing a few words.
 
We've seen so many extraordinary scenes, many of the military unit which had gathered here at Buckingham Palace, some have begun to file out, begun to return back to bases around the country. You're seeing crowds of people -- 10s of 1000s of people slowly being allowed and escorted by police, as you see in military units closer to Buckingham Palace to witness the family when they come out.
 
Anna Stewart is standing by. Explain, Anna, where you are, what are you're seeing around you.
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Well, I can show you around. It's a slightly soggy street party, Anderson, but the people have turned out nonetheless. I can ask my camera lady to whip round and just show you this theme of all these people. You can also see a very long table that I think everyone had hoped might have people having their picnics, their cream teas. Of course, it's not quite the weather for that. However, you can see lots of people are enjoying themselves. They're out here, there's some celebration, the champagne has already been popped. And I've been asking people what they felt about the ceremony. Many people watching of course in the pub undercover.
 
And it was sadly something that the people I've spoken to really enjoy, they did join in with the homage to the King. They found that some of the moments particularly I think Prince William kissing his father was a very poignant one. And there are huge hopes that they will see a bit more particularly with that balcony scene coming up.
 
Mixed feelings on whether they want to see more than just the King and the Queen and how extended that family is going to be. Now, we've just had a parade of the Chelsea Pensioners, who are the Army veterans. We're having another parade, Anderson, in the next hour. I do hope I can show you the next one. It's actually a poor raid (ph). We'll be having around 150 Cavalier King Charles Spaniels, all that to come here on the Kings Road in Chelsea.
 
COOPER: Wow, parade of King Charles Spaniels.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR &amp; ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: She's not just talking about it.
 
COOPER: I know. That's quite an event, I hope we're going to be covering that live as well. Just one of the many events that are happening around the U.K.
 
And you're seeing really, as I said, 10s of 1000s of people. You know, Max Foster, there had been, you know, questions about how many people would be paying attention to this, how many people would want to come out when you see that those scenes on The Mall, just so many people approaching Buckingham Palace, sort of as far as the eye can see down The Mall.
 
FOSTER: (INAUDIBLE) always have these events where the police walk very slowly and the Brits walk in a civilized way behind them. They're filling them out. The police always say, if The Mall is full, that's a million people. And it's the moment when the monarch really feels loved. Can I say that?
 
It's -- they can look out on this crowd, I do have support. And only there with the support of the people. So this is a hugely important moment for Charles to really feel that they all come up for him.
 
COOPER: Yes.
 
FOSTER: Previous events that come up with the Queen.
 
COOPER: And Julia Chatterley, we just saw, if you were watching, we just -- if our viewers were watching, just saw some 4,000 troops gathered to show their support for the King and Queen as well.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely monumental, majestic moment. I mean nothing like it, and we've not seen anything like this. I think the beauty of this moment not only about the troops but the people now. As Max was saying, not just the 1 million people that we're seeing now flooding into The Mall, but the millions of people too that are watching this at home. And even if they're doing it from soggy locations, this other side or they've gone back home and are watching on the sofa hopefully some champagne in hand. This is the moment we're waiting for on the countdown now to what we get on the balcony.
 <br>[09:05:08]
 
I wish I could say that the first and most important thing I'm waiting for is King Charles and Queen Camilla. And I am of course too, but I have to say they're number two, and number one is will Harry or won't to be there?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, yes.
 
KATE WILLIAMS, CNN ROYAL HISTORIAN: It's only the balcony wave is this iconic moment with Queen Victoria started it, we cannot now have a world event without it. When we think about when looking at The Mall, there's incredible crowds. We think about the royal wedding, we think about the Platinum Jubilee, the -- I mean, this -- The Mall was made for being a run up to royal events that used to be a croquet pitch. And now it is there for royal event. I even (INAUDIBLE).
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (INAUDIBLE) yes, exactly.
 
WILLIAMS: I even think about, you know, on the war -- when the war ended, everyone flooded into The Mall and they called over and over again, God save the King, to see the King at the end of the wall and the Queen was out there with her sister in the crowd. And now, they're gathered there for King Charles. And the moment when he comes out what a chair is going to go up.
 
TRISHA GODDARD, BRITISH TELEVISION PRESENTER: Well, I look at the -- 
 
WILLIAMS: Let's take a look at this image there once again, because this is -- yes.
 
GODDARD: Look at those trees on The Mall, and I'm reminded that by my dear father who died just a few months ago was at one of those trees witnessing the coronation of the Queen. He talks about sleeping in the trees. He and his friends.
 
Yes, they found because they got a better view. And I think we forget that all of this is on television, we're seeing close ups of things we probably would never have heard about. All those little moments during the ceremony, you know, the yarn (ph) of this one, you know, Queen Camilla's train almost getting drenched in the rain, all of those sorts of things. We only had film that was edited.
 
We see every little tiny thing now at the moment. So when it gets to that balcony moment, unfortunately, whoever's on that balcony, if people are going to be looking at body language, as you said, is Harry there and how do they relate. It's that. SALLY BEDELL SMITH, ROYAL BIOGRAPHER &amp; AUTHOR: It's also -- I mean, I think -- I mean, I'm -- I hope I'm right, but I don't think anybody is the least bit jaded about it. I think this is something they've seen over and over again. And I know for a fact that several -- well, a month before the Queen died, she was -- a friend of mine was up at The Mall and was talking to her about the Platinum Jubilee and she still, after having seen the crown on The Mall ever since she was 14 months old. She was still marveling at it.
 
CHATTERLEY: This is the high (ph) that King Charles, which you'll never normally so reserved.
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CORRESPONDENT: No. No. We're going to have a reduced flypast today.
 
CHATTERLEY: We'll going to have one.
 
QUEST: Yes.
 
WILLIAMS: Yes.
 
QUEST: There is going to be a flypast but it is just going to be reduced. I don't know if ever reduced by how much or by what's not -- 
 
CHATTERLEY: Slimdown.
 
QUEST: Well, yes, slim down because of the weather.
 
CHATTERLEY: Are we going to see the Red Arrows?
 
QUEST: I have no idea. But -- 
 
CHATTERLEY: I think I got yes of that.
 
QUEST: How many of you have actually done this and be in that crowd?
 
SMITH: I have. I have.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, I couldn't, I couldn't.
 
SMITH: It's amazing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I have.
 
QUEST: You have?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Several times.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: But you've done it twice.
 
QUEST: Well, I've said, I mean, slept on the streets. By the way, well, it doesn't look like a red -- now that looks like a Red Arrow, Julia. I wouldn't put money on it.
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, I'm sorry.
 
QUEST: It does looked like it might be.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, it was.
 
WILLIAMS: And Richard, you are out there to see that iconic moment on the balcony of Charles and Diana's wedding where Charles and his -- 
 
QUEST: Yes, I haven't do where the last flood of five pastor Concord.
 
There you have the planes.
 
CHATTERLY: It's been scaled back to helicopters and the Red Arrow to see acrobatic team of the Royal Air Force. I think for people all over the country, in particular, this was my highlight of my summer was a performance by the Red Arrows where I used to go on holiday every year. So I do think the symbolism, the beauty, the -- what we're going to see, fingers crossed, if we actually -- if they actually managed to take off here.
 
QUEST: The biggest crime.
 
CHATTERLY: I say it's going to be created (ph) breath.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The biggest crime?
 
QUEST: Is that they didn't keep a national Concorde for these events. When Concorde was decommissioned in 2003 -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, there we go.
 
QUEST: -- there was a discussion about keeping one a heritage Concord, and they didn't do it specifically for these events.
 
WILLIAMS: And what's wonderful about these flypasts is that something that people all across London can see there because you can look up and see them going up.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You don't have to be in The Mall.
 
WILLIAMS: You don't have to be in The Mall. You can watch them at home. It was so exciting.
 
CHATTERLY: We're seeing them now down the runway taking off. I can only cross my fingers and as we await this aerial display.
 
Anderson, I'm going to hand it over to you.
 
COOPER: Julia, thank you.
 
Yes, we were anticipating this in several minutes. Any minute now, the Royal family expected to appear on the Buckingham Palace balcony led by the newly crowned King Charles and Queen Camilla. Plus, we'll be joined here on set by goddaughter of King Charles to reflect on the significance of this once in a lifetime celebration. We're going to take a short break. Complete coverage ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) [09:13:59]
 
COOPER: And welcome back to CNN special coronation coverage. Right now, massive crowds are filling the area outside of Buckingham Palace known as The Mall hoping for a chance to see the royal family when they appear on the balcony in just minutes led by the newly crowned King Charles and Queen Camilla. Obviously a lot of questions, people watching around the world and also in the crowd here of will Prince Harry be on the balcony? Will Prince Andrew be on the balcony? A lot of people will be watching for that.
 
CNN's Salma Abdelaziz is live amongst the crowd. What are you hearing from royal well-wishers, Salma?
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Anderson, I just want to go ahead and just pan to the scene right here. They just opened the gates to allow people to move from The Mall towards the palace. And the crowd here is just massive. I keep hearing them cheering every little while. Every single person here is just hoping for a glimpse of the royal family in the balcony.
 
I mean, this is the key moment. This is the historic opportunity that everybody is hoping for. And feeling this route, I mean, just in seconds you can hear that cheering again. The minute those gates open just the flood of people coming through here, everyone with their color for hats, their flags, all hoping for that balcony moment.
 <br>[09:15:14]
 
And that's something important to remember about this event, about this occasion, is that it is not a static event. As you've seen, of course, we've had a procession going to the Abbey and procession coming back from the Abbey. And now of course, we have this moment at the palace, everyone here hoping -- you keep hearing those chairs, that applause, they're listening to those loudspeakers, they're listening to those instructions.
 
And what's really extraordinary to see, Anderson, as well is despite how massive this crowd is just how well organized it is. Everybody here really has one goal, one purpose, some of them have been camping out for days. And you just see this flow of people making their way right there at Buckingham Palace.
 
COOPER: Yes, Salma, thank you for that.
 
We were here with Christiane Amanpour and Max Foster outside Buckingham Palace.
 
FOSTER: They're very civilized until they get past the monument and then they run to the gate.
 
COOPER: Is that right?
 
FOSTER: Yes. It's how to get their positions, aren't they?
 
COOPER: Yes. FOSTER: Fair enough. But if it does fill The Mall, I think that's a massive, massive vote of confidence in Charles and even asked me, you know, what do the Brits think? I mean, this is his first measure, our first measure, the Queen would always fill them out. Will he be able to? I mean, it's raining as well, slight disadvantage.
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: It's a little disappointing, let's face it, especially the flypasts. That's something that this country loves.
 
FOSTER: Although that's been reduced.
 
AMANPOUR: Yes, it's been reduced because of the weather clearly for safety reasons, and should be.
 
COOPER: And by the way, what you're looking at is, we can see it just from where we're at, it's blocks of people sort of several 100 maybe at a time with police on either side of them on either end of them slowly escorting people close, close, close to -- 
 
AMANPOUR: For it manage enthusiasm.
 
COOPER: Manage enthusiast. Is that what it is? It's a lot of British managing enthusiasm. So they're allowed getting people up and doing it in a very, very orderly way.
 
AMANPOUR: Very orderly.
 
COOPER: Yes.
 
FOSTER: They make them wait for week.
 
COOPER: Yes.
 
FOSTER: In walk very sternly. I think that rhyme (ph).
 
COOPER: Yes. But there's certainly a lot of enthusiasm.
 
AMANPOUR: Yes, but I'll tell you what, the flypast is going to be a disappointment because it's, for safety reasons, it looks like just a handful of those World War II era Spitfires, which -- I mean these were legendary in the war, they did so much to help this nation win.
 
FOSTGER: Just Red Arrows and helicopters.
 
AMANPOUR: Well yes, Red Arrows and helicopters, exactly. And it's really -- it's going to be a little bit underwhelming. But nonetheless, they will be there.
 
COOPER: But we shall see, we shall see. You don't -- you know, you never know.
 
AMANPOUR: Well, you know, they use -- hopefully they'll do the tail smoke of the red white and blue.
 
COOPER: Yes. AMANPOUR: We'll see.
 
COOPER: We're going to get another quick break here. When we come back, the royal family stepped out onto the balcony of Buckingham Palace. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:21:57]
 
COOPER: And any moment we expect King Charles III, Queen Camilla to lead the royal family out onto the balcony of Buckingham Palace to greet the 1000s of supporters gathered outside for royal flyover to honor the new monarch. We -- during the break we have been watching, we are still seeing 1000s of people scooting along, politely rushing to fill the area outside the palace.
 
Police have been very careful in how they're letting people approach the palace, slowly moving them toward the palace. But there is -- there are a crowd was just kind of a sea of people just moving past our location here as you can see, not quite a full out running but coming as close as they can.
 
AMANPOUR: And the bulk of the moment is very important throughout British history. You know, as far as I remember anyway, in terms of pictures, it goes back at least, you know, to King George.
 
COOPER: 1902, 1903 I believe was the first.
 
AMANPOUR: Yes, yes, yes. And of course during the war it was a big deal after the war, victory day and then coronations, royal weddings, jubilees and on and on. It's really a very -- 
 
COOPER: There have been so many iconic balcony moments. You know you think about the Charles his first marriage to Princess Diana.
 
AMANPOUR: Where he delivered that kiss, that was the first public kiss of a royal family.
 
FOSTER: I know, holding his ears. Remember that? Most sign that is good (ph).
 
COOPER: So, there's certainly so many people who are in this crowd who are watching all around the world have their own memories of watching the royal family, different royal family -- 
 
FOSTER: Thinking about Swiss wells (ph) contingents.
 
COOPER: Yes. There are a lot of international flags, Paris and Brazil. I saw some -- that's a Mexico flag as well. There's three Charles is right there in the crowd as well.
 
FOSTER: Yes.
 
COOPER: But obviously, there's going to be a lot of talk and a lot of questions and a lot of interest in who appears on the balcony. We did see Prince Andrew who have prominent position during the -- at the -- at Westminster Abbey, Prince Harry was there at Westminster Abbey, unclear if he will be on the balcony. Certainly if he was on the balcony, perhaps that would be descended some sort of a message of unity on this day, we shall see.
 
AMANPOUR: Or he's gone back to his own family. Apparently it's his own son's birthday.
 
COOPER: It's Archie's fourth birthday, yes.
 
And then in terms of -- once the flyover occurs then the -- from the family standpoint, the public events are over for the day.
 
FOSTER: Photographs. So the photographer setting up -- well, has set up behind the scenes and huge amount of pressure on him. And we're expecting, you know, that -- you know, such a defining image is a Queen's -- 
 
AMANPOUR: Yes.
 
FOSTER: -- coronation with her regalia. It was like it was in the RV but it's actually back here. I just saw the curtain twitch there.
 
And then it's a private family lunch as I understand it. It's not going to be dignitaries. I think it's going to be Camilla's family and Charles's family having a lunch. And then he's not going to address the nation in any way. He then slopes off as it were until the concert tomorrow night.
 
COOPER: We're talking about history, the balcony. I just want to show a picture of Charles during his mother's coronation watching the flyover, I believe he was four years old then.
 <br>[09:25:08]
 
FOSTER: He says he doesn't remember parts of the coronation. But that's what makes it so special for George, she's now nine.
 
AMANPOUR: We saw -- there were two queens there. There was the Queen mother, the was princess -- 
 
COOPER: Can you put that picture back up for a second?
 
AMANPOUR: It's quite an interesting course. Princess Margaret, to the very far right as you're looking Then further forward, Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, the Duke of Edinburgh, it was the consort of Queen Elizabeth. Princess Anne, who's now in the blonde curls there -- 
 
COOPER: Yes.
 
AMANPOUR: -- always riding the horse, the Princess Royal now who's following her brother's -- 
 
COOPER: Everyone's (INAUDIBLE).
 
FOSTER: Here we are.
 
AMANPOUR: Here we go.
 
COOPER: The doors are open. And there they are.
 
Crowd still rushing toward Buckingham Palace trying to get a view as the other members of the royal family emerge.
 
FOSTER: So the pages are there with them, and then -- 
 
COOPER: Max, is Harry going to be there?
 
FOSTER: So, as I understand it, Harry has not received an invitation to appear on the balcony. So no.
 
COOPER: There you see Prince George off to the left, one of the pages for his grandfather on this day.
 
AMANPOUR: And you can see Queen Camilla just organizing. I mean, this first scene is the King, the Queen and all their attendance.
 
FOSTER: Yes.
 
AMANPOUR: Family has not yet come out.
 
FOSTER: So George will be there. Camilla's sister is there, as well as in attendance. So this is how they've decided to manage it.
 
And then the question is, will the rest of the family come out and join them? Will they go back in and come out? What sort of message are they sending about their monarchy?
 
If they want to really slim down monarchy, then they will leave it at this. But I suspect certainly the Wales' will come out and perhaps the other working royals including Antoinette (ph) and Anne, for example.
 
COOPER: So at first it's just the -- those who were part of the procession helping the King and the Queen.
 
FOSTER: It's the only part of today that we hadn't had any guidance on this. They were going to choose within the moment, so they do have the wider family.
 
AMANPOUR: And there they are to the left of your screen as you're watching. The Prince of Wales, the Princess of Wales and other members of the royal family. They'll pull out in a second and we'll see.
 
FOSTER: This is big heartening moment for Charles. He's realizing that he is popular.
 
COOPER: There's Prince Louis, the children of Prince William and Catherine.
 
FOSTER: And they are waiting for the flypasts, much reduced just Red Arrows and helicopters but that Red Arrows is always the headline act anyway. COOPER: So, it looks like Prince Andrew off to the right and Prince Edward as well?
 
FOSTER: No, that's duke of Kent and duke of Gloucester, right?
 
AMANPOUR: Yes. Yes. Yes.
 
FOSTER: So no Andrew.
 
COOPER: No Andrew.
 
FOSTER: Antoinette on the far left.
 
AMANPOUR: Yes.
 
FOSTER: So these are all the working royals, the members of the family that represent the King on public views.
 
COOPER: So Prince Andrew is not out there.
 
FOSTER: No.
 
COOPER: And Prince Harry is not out there.
 
AMANPOUR: No.
 
FOSTER: It's the pages and the children and the working royals.
 
AMANPOUR: And cousins of the King on that side who you said the Gloucesters, the Kents on the right.
 
COOPER: On the right hand side.
 
AMANPOUR: And on the left, the children of the King and their wives and children. And the brothers and sisters as well.
 
FOSTER: (INAUDIBLE) for the cow (ph) is very rarely. They get a sense of -- 
 
COOPER: You can see Prince George pointing out people in the crowd with the other pages.
 
FOSTER: You wonder what goes through their minds at moments like this.
 
COOPER: But it is -- I mean to me a child on this must just be extraordinary to see hundreds of 1000s of people.
 
AMANPOUR: Yes. The kids are quite -- 
 
FOSTER: Yes.
 
AMANPOUR: -- enamored of it. The principal's look a little stressed.
 
FOSTER: Camilla's grandchildren. I wonder -- one of her private secretaries once described her as a professional grandmother. And for her to bring her grandchildren up on the balcony is, you know, it's a big moment.
 
It's starting to rain again, you wouldn't know it from the enthusiasm. There you go, they're waiting for the Red Arrows.
 
I think it's going to plan. I don't think they've been distractions and that's what we always hoped for.
 
COOPER: Yes.
 
FOSTER: They do seem to be protected from the rain, thankfully.
 
COOPER: Flyover is about to happen, we're told. And here you're seeing some of the helicopters approaching. Let's watch.
 
FOSTER: Was meant to be 60 aircraft. But can't help the weather.
 
COOPER: It's interesting that -- I mean it is a pretty subdued crowd. 
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
The people closest to Buckingham Palace are waving flags and cheering every now and then. Not so much the rest of the crowd.
 
AMANPOUR: The Mall is not yet full for now.
 
COOPER: Now, people are cheering as the helicopters approach. 
 
FOSTER: (INAUDIBLE) for the rehearsals for the flypast with 60 aircrafts practicing to do it. Real disappointing. They had to call it off the last minute.
 
COOPER: That's what it was to be, 60?
 
FOSTER: Yes, more than 60.
 
COOPER: There's a low cloud cover so it's difficult to fly in this weather.
 
FOSTER: A huge amount of work just went into today. (INAUDIBLE).
 
AMANPOUR: I'm having a bit of a D-day moment. Obviously, it wasn't the aircraft of D-day but it was the boats and the ships that all landed. The weather was absolutely terrible. And then these are military helicopters a lot of them and the Red Arrows is symbolic of that.
 
FOSTER: The day will be capped by the Red Arrows. What did you describe the smoke as?
 
AMANPOUR: Well, tail smoke.
 
FOSTER: Tail smoke.
 
AMANPOUR: If they do it in red, white and blue. Let's see if they can. If it holds up against these clouds.
 
FOSTER: They seem more comfortable in their crowns now as well. They had to be fitted for the occasion. The next time it will be refitted for the --
 
COOPER: There haven't been a lot of moments of great joy.
 
FOSTER: Anderson, really?
 
COOPER: Have there?
 
FOSTER: Well, it's a solemn occasion, isn't it?
 
AMANPOUR: There's a lot of duty, isn't it?
 
FOSTER: It's more of the big parties, street parties and the concert.
 
COOPER: OK.
 
AMANPOUR: But I know what you mean, Anderson. I know what you mean. It's --
 
FOSTER: Look at Louis --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COOPER: They are having a fun time.
 
AMANPOUR: They are having a fun time.
 
COOPER: The kids are having a fun time. Here's --
 
AMANPOUR: Here they come. There we go. There you go.
 
FOSTER: A strong tail smoke.
 
AMANPOUR: Just a quickie. They've taken out the controversial Koh-i- noor diamond from the queen's crown that was --
 
COOPER: Wow.
 
AMANPOUR: There we go. Much more than three.
 
COOPER: That was cool. That was a big crowd pleaser here. A lot of people --
 
AMANPOUR: That was -- that was more than one expected.
 
COOPER: Yes.
 
FOSTER: That much caps the ceremony -- events of the day. The Royal (INAUDIBLE) flying high above Buckingham Palace. They are flying in the presence of the monarchy below. And the young children there, they enjoyed the moment. They were hoping for a lot more. Obviously, they were told there would be more than 60. That didn't happen in the end. (INAUDIBLE) playing below them. The crowd singing along. The nurses, the social workers, the veterans, all invited to take in the moment.
 
COOPER: And now they are going to be returning back inside for formal portraits. FOSTER: So, they go inside. They will have their formal photograph taken by Hugo Burnand who is their official photographer. We'll wait and see how they -- we'll see some of those tomorrow, they're going to be released. And everyone you saw on the balcony there will also be involved in those photos, and perhaps the wider family as well. But a huge amount of pressure on the photographer now. We got to feel for him. He also took the prince and princess of Wales' wedding photographs.
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
And I remember interviewing him at the time, having huge problems with all the children running around. And he -- I gave them lots of sweets to calm them down -- the chance to get to do what I'm meant to do. But I was going to go and in (INAUDIBLE) the moment.
 
AMANPOUR: That was a nice moment.
 
FOSTER: And then they will be a private lunch. We won't get any information on that. And Prince George (INAUDIBLE) in his first formal role, in a state
 
 event.
 
COOPER: Let's check in with Salma Abdelaziz in the crowd. Salma, how are people receiving what they saw?
 
ABDELAZIZ: Of course, the family has just went back inside, Anderson. But what was so stunning about the moment was that it was really emotional. I saw people tearing up, of course, as they were chanting, "God Save the King."
 
I'm just going to knock shoulders here with a lovely lady. Hannah, if you don't mind. Oh, I can see you're tearing -- that was really an emotional moment.
 
HANNAH, PART OF THE CROWD: That was absolutely lovely.
 
ABDELAZIZ: Why are you tearing up? I can see you're with your children. If you don't mind I'll have you turn just -- just tell -- what brought you to tears?
 
HANNAH: I just think it's such a wonderful thing. (INAUDIBLE) is a wonderful country.
 
ABDELAZIZ: And you're here with your two children. I can see you've got -- you've got the little one on your shoulder.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I have got the little one here.
 
ABDELAZIZ: What does it mean to have the kids here today?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, it's just a once in a lifetime experience really. So, to bring them to show hopefully what this country can do and hopefully give them some memories that they'll never forget.
 
ABDELAZIZ: And, Hannah, this obviously means so much to you. You've got to be right up that -- right that balcony or right here. What did that feel like?
 
HANNAH: It was wonderful. Absolutely wonderful. Euphoric. Absolutely.
 
ABDELAZIZ: That's wonderful. Well, I hope you guys have a lovely day.
 
And, I think, Anderson, that sentiment just comes from not a day of events, but really months' long process, from the queen's death to right now the crowning of a new king that has meant so much to the identity and culture of so many here.
 
COOPER: Yes. Salma, appreciate it. We'll check back in with you shortly. I want to go to Julia Chatterley who is standing by with her team as well. The royal family now back inside Buckingham Palace for formal portraits, Julia.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, absolutely. It's actually quite fascinating to listen to what some of the people there, the tears, the emotion of what they saw. And perhaps the difference that we felt watching this through a camera lens and the astonishment really that we all shared equally the same moment to see the king and queen alone really on the balcony, surrounded by pageboys, not flanked, not surrounded by the Wales, not seeing King Charles' grandchildren, Anderson. Anderson, go back. I believe the -- I'm going to have it back to you --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COOPER: The king and queen have returned to the balcony. Let's take a look.
 
CHATTERLEY: They're back for an encore.
 
COOPER: Yes. That's a surprise for the crowd. That's nice.
 
AMANPOUR: No, I think that is the point, isn't it? People who are actually there have been moved by the historical moment of this. And I think that is exactly why we all pay attention to this, why people come out to these things. Because no matter what or when, it is a Technicolor example of British history and it goes back a thousand years --
 
COOPER: And there they look happy.
 
AMANPOUR: Yes. It's almost like they were --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COOPER: Yes, that's interesting.
 
FOSTER: They're waiting for the pages to come out to help them with those very long robes there. So, they came out -- I mean, that is technically an encore. You know, they feel the crowd want another appearance. They wanted to give them that. But now they're sort of wondering --
 
(CROSSTALK) COOPER: It is, I guess, a difficult thing of sort of trying to figure out the tone, the tenor of the day, how you behave. It's a solemn occasion. It's something you've been waiting for your whole life. And yet -- it's also a celebration.
 
FOSTER: These balcony moments, I was told, were being decided within the moment. So, whatever Charles wanted to do. So, that was all of his decision really.
 
AMANPOUR: Yes. There's a connection there.
 
COOPER: Yes. But it is -- you know, so many people come whether -- you know, and you looked at polls in the weeks leading up to this. And people said they weren't interested. But clearly there's a lot of people who are interested and they are here. And whether it's for the individuals or for the institution or as a representation of the country and their pride in the country it's -- people want to be here and see it.
 
AMANPOUR: Well, this is a country that really takes history seriously. And, as you say, whether it's the people -- the different, you know, hereditary and the succession, the activity around it, the thing that it is is something that, you know, people can be proud of in this country. And it goes back so far and no other country does it like it. It's just always the question of and? You know, will it be -- will it remain relevant as it has for many, many years?
 
FOSTER: I mean, they appear -- in those moments of natural celebration and commiseration and they are this constant. So, whenever you want to express something, they're sort of there. And I think they are a mirror of yourself as a Brit in many ways. So, I think it might not necessarily be Charles they're here for.
 <br>[09:40:01]
 
It's a reflection of themselves.
 
AMANPOUR: And again, interestingly, you know, I mean, there are parts of this United Kingdom that are more fractious than others, let's say. And for the first time, for instance, the deputy leader of Sinn Fein came, a leader of Sinn Fein came.
 
COOPER: From Northern Ireland.
 
AMANPOUR: Yes, from Northern Ireland. I mean, this didn't happen before.
 
COOPER: Yes.
 
AMANPOUR: And it just shows how things are changing, how the constituent parts of the United Kingdom are changing, and how the monarchy is sort of shifting and changing and morphing to try to meet the reality of the moment.
 
COOPER: And, Julia, it's also a celebration of the things which are central and which are permanent and which are -- have existed throughout the ages here.
 
CHATTERLEY: Absolutely. I mean, we are looking at an evolution, I think. And I couldn't agree more with Christiane's point there of a thousand years plus of history. But, I think, to put it back to that balcony moment, again, I was expecting to see a dynasty moment and to see the king and Queen Camilla flanked by the Wales, by Prince William, by Princess Kate. And it was just --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Where was the money shot there?
 
WILLIAMS: I think we were all stunned, weren't we? Because we saw this corner we have Kate and William and their children all crammed into the corner. You --
 
CHATTERLEY: Princess Royal stuffed in the back. Prince Andrew also stuffed in the back.
 
WILLIAMS: Really this was -- other balcony waves. I mean, this is a TV moment. This is going across the world. This is meant to symbolize to the world what the monarchy is. And very clearly the message is here it is King Charles and Camilla, everyone else is backup --
 
QUEST: But it was the way they did it. They shoved them to the left. They shoved them to the right. They had some pages on one side. Some pages to the other. And that was it.
 
BEDELL SMITH: They needed a choreographer. They needed somebody -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SMITH: Or maybe they had a choreographer, but they needed to -- exactly as you said it needed to be the king, the queen, the next king and the next queen.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
QUEST: So let me ask you -- 
 
SMITH: They all should be front and center. And his sister who has done incredible work over the years and his brother who is very much a working royal, Edward and Sophie, both of whom were very close to the queen as well.
 
CHATTERLEY: Are we just -- 
 
TRISHA GODDARD, BRITISH TELEVISION PRESENTER: No. I think --
 
QUEST: What message were they sending?
 
GODDARD: It's King Camilla and queen -- it's King Charles and Queen Camilla. And I think -- I really felt at that moment, the way that the rest of the family was kind of shoved into a corner that it -- the spotlight wasn't meant to shine on anyone else except for the king and queen. We're talking about through history -- CHATTERLEY: It's his day.
 
GODDARD: But we were talking about --
 
CHATTERLEY: It is his day.
 
GODDARD: But what about the family with the queen?
 
CHATTERLEY: Well, we're in a transitional period in the monarchy.
 
WILLIAMS: The central shot -- the central shot was of them. And it really symbolizes to me the fact that Charles was overshadowed for so much of his live by his mother, then by his wife, then by his children. And he wants to be the starring role. And, you know, we know that Kate is box office. He didn't want Kate and the children getting all the attention which they could have done.
 
SMITH: But that's sort of -- that's sort of the opposite of the message that was being sent through the whole coronation service, which is -- 
 
QUEST: But this was -- 
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, my goodness. Richard, make it quick.
 
QUEST: But this was the chance to show that we're a firmer family, we're united and we're leading, and it didn't. It showed look at me. Look at me. I'm standing at the front.
 
WILLIAMS: Me.
 
CHATTERLEY: And I'm not sure I'm the right person at the right time in the right place. Anderson, on that controversial note, I'll hand it back to you.
 
COOPER: Julia, thank you so much. We're going to take a short break. Up next, the coronation celebrations continue. We're joined by a special, the goddaughter of King Charles. Her reflections ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:48:02]
 
COOPER: And welcome back to London on this historic day. We just saw King Charles and Queen Camilla greet the crowds from Buckingham Palace's balcony joined by many members of the royal family including Prince William, Princess Kate and their three kids.
 
I want to bring in India Hicks who is second cousin and goddaughter of King Charles III. Her mother, Lady Pamela Mountbatten, was a lady in waiting to Queen Elizabeth II. Thank you so much for joining us on this day. Watching all this what are your -- what are your thoughts?
 
INDIA HICKS, SECOND COUSIN AND GODDAUGHTER OF KING CHARLES III: That rain will never hold us back. England, we're used to this. In fact, actually, the 1953 coronation of the queen, terrible rain. COOPER: Is that right? I didn't realize that.
 
HICKS: Same weather. Fantastic rain. So, I think we're going to be in good hands here.
 
In fact, there's a wonderful story of Queen Salote of Tonga who won the hearts of the British nation because when she came back -- that coronation we had many more carriages. And she came back in her carriage and she didn't put the hood up so that the public could see her. Most of the royal families and the European royal families put their hoods up.
 
COOPER: That's interesting.
 
HICKS: Wonderful.
 
COOPER: We have a photo of you. I think, we can put it up. This is of your mother at the coronation of Queen Elizabeth which is just extraordinary that your mother is there on the right hand -- the far right on the right of the -- the white dress.
 
HICKS: That's right. And, in fact, what's interesting about this is probably this exact scene is going on right now in the palace.
 
COOPER: That's what they're doing now.
 
HICKS: That's what they'll be doing right now. They will be doing these formal -- I mean, I call this a little family -- a casual family group -- a little family shot of the family together. But my mother is not wearing her rose because she's not a peer. My aunt married one. And my mother is the daughter -- it gets wildly complicated.
 
COOPER: You've been on that balcony many times.
 
HICKS: I have. I have as a child.
 
COOPER: What's it like?
 
HICKS: Amazing. But, I think, oddly being here is kind of more exciting. You just feel the heartbeat of the nation and the excitement. When you're there it's sort of slightly overwhelming. But I have to say I was on it for Charles and Diana's wedding and that was extraordinary.
 <br>[09:50:03]
 
Because just like today, actually, although it was bright sunshine, everybody is there in excitement, for joy. They're rejoicing. Normally when you get crowds they're angry or they're protesting or they're just disgruntled. And this is always joyful. And I love that.
 
COOPER: Can you -- can you hear the crowd up on the balcony?
 
HICKS: Yes. Yes, you can hear the crowds. Yes, that's pretty amazing.
 
FOSTER: Can I ask you a sensitive question? HICKS: Yes.
 
FOSTER: Well, I don't know if it's sensitive but what your view is. Obviously, the way Charles is modernized he didn't want just the aristocracy there in the church. He didn't want peers. He wanted to invite a reflection of British society. And many people like yourselves, like your mother weren't invited when you would have been invited in the past. What's your view amongst your peers as it were about the way he has handled the invitations?
 
HICKS: I can't answer for anyone other than myself and my mother, and my mother always sets the example. And her first reaction was how very sensible to have someone of merit rather than the rank you've been born into. It makes such -- it makes such a good impression on this time and this climate -- we're really battling that. But during this time and climate how else can we set a new example? And I think it did set a tone.
 
FOSTER: Do you think how much of it was his decision and how much of it was the church's decision?
 
HICKS: I just think both. I think the king we have is a very sensitive man who I think -- I do believe has his finger on the pulse of the British nation and what the temperature is at the moment. And this is a very important day. This was going to set the tone of what was coming.
 
And what we saw today were all those different denominations of faith coming together. We heard words that hadn't been said before, I am here to serve you. That's never been said in a thousand years of coronations. He is setting a different tone.
 
So, my mother not being there but giving a seat to someone who's done unbelievable good because of the merit of their behavior rather than the rank, that's wonderful. That's how it should be. Yes, there are some disgruntled dukes surrounding them but that's OK. I think it was brilliant what he did. Absolutely brilliant.
 
COOPER: We saw -- we saw Prince Harry, obviously, at Westminster Abbey. For you to see him there what went through your mind?
 
HICKS: I mean Prince Harry's role was never going to be necessarily more. You know, we're looking at the direct descendants who will inherit that, and they were there in their role doing as they should. So, I think, it was never going to be an enormous conversation.
 
FOSTER: People have made note that the king looked very solemn and he wasn't smiling. Just explain why that is.
 
HICKS: Strangely -- actually, I felt that there was quite a lot of warmth around his expression. I thought for him that was quite expressive.
 
But let's not forget what's happening here. This is a solemn ceremony. He is taking on -- he's being anointed by, you know, by this extraordinary holy oil, and this service dates back so far. Everything in that service was there for symbolism. Everything there meant something, deeply, deeply spiritual.
 
COOPER: There was -- I thought an extraordinary moment when, you know, part of the anointing was not seen. There were screens which I thought was really interesting. Obviously, that's part of the tradition. When the screens were taken away you suddenly saw him kneeling just wearing a white sort of undershirt almost, and there was something very startling to kind of just see him not naked but for a king sort of naked.
 
HICKS: And that is the point. That is the point to be derobed. He is at his barest.
 
My mother, again, who was with the queen during the 1953 coronation she described that moment in that coronation as the queen looking terribly vulnerable because -- imagine we've got this very young princess. Nobody imagined her father was going to die. She inherits the throne very, very young, very inexperienced, very naive. My goodness, what a reign that followed. But at that moment my mother described it as a romance and tragedy together.
 
Today, it we saw very different. I thought we saw a man who is very recognized for who he is, what he said, his principles with a very strong wife behind him, 74 years of working off an apprenticeship to come to this role. So, we're seeing such, such different dynamics between mother and son already, as it should be. As it should be.
 
And I think we should be feeling very confident about the king we have today. I mean, all of the -- all of his passions that we thought were slightly strange was actually so prescient.
 
COOPER: I mean, he was ridiculed for a long time for a lot of the stuff that he was talking about.
 
HICKS: Yes, because we didn't understand. When you don't understand something it makes you nervous. Now we're like, my God, this man -- to think that he's old-fashioned where he's generations ahead of any of us. You know, I worked with the Prince's Trust quite closely.
 <br>[09:55:01]
 
I'm very honored to do that. And the words that we hear all the time about are inclusivity, diversity and equality. And that is so important. I think that will be the theme of this reign.
 
COOPER: What do you think today was like for Prince William, obviously, seeing what his future may be, and even his sons, you know, carrying the
 
 robes of his grandfather knowing that one day he may wear those robes?
 
HICKS: I think -- I think for Prince George this is -- this is -- he's been around this enough that it just -- it was -- it was a sort of exceptional day. I think for William where you're really thinking, what will my reign be? Who is the man I want to be? That would be very overwhelming I would imagine. But, again, a very strong family.
 
You know -- and the queen's father always said, we four. It was him and the queen and the two princesses. We four. We four. It's a very slimmed down, hardworking monarchy, and that's what we're getting back to. And we'll see the "we four" again.
 
FOSTER: A quick question about Charlotte because you are in a very similar position to here when you're at Diana's wedding as a bridesmaid, and all eyes were on you. You became a very famous child. And Charlotte the way she handles herself, how do you think she handled herself today?
 
HICKS: I think she's a complete reflection of two parents who have done an extremely good job in bringing up a child, in very difficult circumstances. It's impossible to be royal nowadays. You know the insidious behavior of the press, everybody being on top of you. You know, the sort of disrespect that happens understandably, understandably because there are no barriers anymore.
 
You know, when the king goes out people ask him for selfies. The king never had to deal with that. But he does it. He does it with such grace.
 
COOPER: India Hicks, thank you so much. It's such a pleasure to have you here. Appreciate it.
 
The pomp, the circumstance, the crown jewels, the emotional moment between the new monarch and his son, the highlights of today's once in a lifetime ceremony next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)