Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Deadly Firefight Erupts In West Bank City Of Jenin; Alexei Navalny On Trial And On A Mission; Pakistani Father And Son Confirmed On Titanic Sub; Blinken Wraps Up High-Stakes China Visit; Search And Rescue Underway For Missing Titanic Sub; NOAA: El Nino Is Back, Expected To Strengthen. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired June 20, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:45]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. A desperate search deep below the waves of the tourist submarine heading to the Titanic crash site disappeared during descent. What we know about the surge and who was on board the craft.
 
Storm swept the southern U.S. as communities pick up the pieces from a weekend of severe weather. Thousands are still without power and facing a new threat as a dangerous heatwave setting.
 
A high stakes meeting between the world's superpowers, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says progress was made in his talks with China but how tensions really eased.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: Thanks for being with us. Well, an urgent search and rescue mission is underway right now in the North Atlantic Ocean for a missing submersible carrying five people to see the wreckage of the Titanic. The sub belongs to the commercial underwater exploration company OceanGate. Two of the crew members have now been identified by their family, Shahzada Dawood and his son Suleman.
 
The father is on the Board of Trustees of the SETI Institute in California, A nonprofit research organization. The family statement says as of now, contact has been lost with their submersible craft and there is limited information available.
 
Wel, the wreck of the Titanic is almost 400 nautical miles south east of Newfoundland in Canada. It sits in two parts on the ocean floor more than two miles or almost four kilometers below the surface. A U.S. Coast Guard official briefed reporters Monday on the search efforts.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REAR ADM. JOHN MAUGER, COMMANDER, U.S. COAST GUARD FIRST DISTRICT: It is a remote area and it is a challenge to conduct a search in that remote area. But we are deploying all available assets to make sure that we can locate the craft and rescue the people on board.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And we get more now on the search from CNN's Brian Todd.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): An urgent search and rescue operation is now underway in the North Atlantic in the area near the wreck of the Titanic to find a last submersible with five people aboard. The U.S. Coast Guard tell CNN it's got a ship on the scene and aircraft including C-130 planes. Canadian ships and planes joining the search as well along with the Polar Prints, the vessel that transported the missing submersible to the site of the Titanic wreckage about 380 miles off the coast of Newfoundland.
 
The Coast Guard says the vessel submerged on Sunday morning and lost contact with the crew of the Polar Prints one hour and 45 minutes into its descent.
 
MAUGER: We have to make sure that we're looking on both the surface using aerial and surface vessels, but then expanding into underwater search as well. Right now, our capability is limited to Sonobuoys and listening for sounds. But, you know, we're working very hard to increase the capability. 
 
TODD (voiceover): This rescue is a race against time. On its Web site OceanGate Expeditions. The company that operates the submersible on expeditions down to the Titanic says the 21-foot vessel has up to 96 hours, four days of oxygen for five people. One signal rescuers could be looking for.
 
BUTCH HENDRICK, PRESIDENT AND FOUNDER, LIFEGUARD SYSTEMS: Does it have any of the normal pieces that a unit like this submersible should have releasable beacon that would have gone to the surface and could have been sending out a signal.
 
TODD (voiceover): What could have gone wrong? CNN's weather team says the weather in the area was not overly harsh at the time the vessel submerged. But experts say below the surface, currents could have affected the submersible or with its various motors and propellers.
 
HENDRICK: It could be entrapped. It's very easy for it to suddenly get caught on something and it can't come back to the surface.
 <br>[02:05:05]
 
TODD (voiceover): The Titanic sank in 1912 after hitting an iceberg. More than 1500 people died, the wreck was discovered in 1985 split into two parts. Recently, an underwater scanning project using deep sea mapping created new spectacular images of the ship. It's become a popular and expensive tourist destination. It costs $250,000 per person to take a trip to the Titanic on the Titan submersible that's now missing.
 
The Titanic lies close to 12,500, feet more than two miles below the surface, a depth that experts say complicates any rescue mission.
 
Because of those conditions. The experts we spoke to say that if and when the submersible is located and if it's deep underwater, they'll probably have to send unmanned vehicles down first to try to address the situation. Rescue diver Butch Hendricks says they'll likely have to try to bring the vessel to the surface first. He says they won't be able to extract the people inside while it's underwater.
 
BRIAN TODD CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: In India, a blistering heatwave is scorching parts of the country. Officials in the state of Bihar say at least 44 people have died in recent days due to the high temperatures. The Indian Meteorological Office issued a red alert after some districts in Bihar recorded temperatures above 113 degrees Fahrenheit or 45 degrees Celsius. But temperatures are expected to cool in the coming days. 
 
Well storms have battered the U.S. South in some of the same places already devastated by tornadoes over the past few days. More than 90 storms were reported across the country Monday, and more than 30 million people across the south are under a severe weather threat Tuesday into Wednesday.
 
And take a look at this video of a possible tornado in Moss Point Mississippi. The storm ripped through the area leveling several homes and businesses in its path. At least one person was killed and nearly two dozen injured when a powerful twister swept through the Mississippi town of Louin Sunday night.
 
The National Weather Service gave it a preliminary rating of F3. Meanwhile, around 35 million people are under heat alerts from Texas to New Mexico, and hundreds of thousands are without power in the blistering temperatures.
 
CNN Meteorologist Chad Myers has more on the dangerous weather impacting the country.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Quite a few severe weather reports all the way from Virginia all the way down to the Gulf Coast. The most severe along the Gulf Coast itself with tornadoes reported down there. Some hitting some towns with damage down there. Also, another event very, very heavy rainfall. Six to 10 inches of rain fell in a short period of time with flash flood emergencies in effect.
 
Now here we go. This is what the computer thinks the rainfall is going to look like throughout the day on Tuesday, taking you all the way to Wednesday. Notice what happens Tuesday afternoon, big storms could be rolling right through New Orleans. This is kind of the biggest threat that I see here. Some of those firms could also be severe with heavy rainfall, wind and even some hail.
 
So if it falls on the same places that already saw the heavy rainfall, there could be more flash flooding in the forecast. And also, that rainfall will be heading up the east coast up into Charlotte up the hills, up the Appalachian chain and that was all the rainfall will be here along in east of that upslope flow of that mountain their area. And also, some heavy rainfall across parts of Texas. And of course, New Orleans where I showed you those storms will be. 
 
Something else that's going on to the west of there is this record- breaking heat. More than 60 places will likely break record highs with excessive heat warnings in effect and a heat index to 122 in the afternoon in some places. That's in the shade. So, these are the temperatures on the thermometer. Without the heat kind of added in and humidity added in. The temperatures are going to be hot already.
 
You add any humidity and it's going to feel much warmer in places. It's going to feel like 120 degrees it did in Corpus Christi on Monday. It felt for a time, 120 degrees Fahrenheit. One more thing going on, tropical storm Brett, it was named Brett at 5:00 p.m. on Monday and it's out here in the Atlantic way out there. But it is forecast to move to the west toward the islands. And if you notice here the numbers forecast to become a hurricane.
 
Not until probably Wednesday or Thursday, but this storm will likely intensify and move to some populated islands and possibly even into the Gulf of Mexico next week. We'll have to watch that. This track is still way too far out to figure out where this thing is going to go just yet.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHURCH: Joining me now from Washington, Tom Di Liberto is a meteorologist with the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or NOAA. Great to have you with us.
 
TOM DI LIBERTO, METEOROLOGIST, NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION: Thanks for having me.
 <br>[02:10:02]
 
CHURCH: So, we are seeing extreme heat in Texas and other parts of the country and now your organization NOAA has announced that El Nino is underway. What does that mean exactly? And what impact will it likely have on future weather patterns?
 
DI LIBERTO: Well, El Nino can affect the weather across the entire globe. Not only the United States, but across Asia, Africa and the across South America as well. Now, the major impact, especially during the summer months can be on the hurricane seasons in the Atlantic and eastern Pacific. But also, could mean big changes precipitation patterns across parts of Asia and Africa and across Central America, the Caribbean as well.
 
CHURCH: Wow, that is vast, isn't it? So, many countries, of course, as a result of this are racing to prepare for extreme weather later this year, as the world deals with El Nino. So, what plans need to be made right now to prepare for that?
 
DI LIBERTO: Well, El Nino is one of those climate phenomena that's a bit rare, and that we can predict well in advance that it's going to occur. And especially now that we've admissions, we said that it's here, we know that that means is likely to be here also this winter time. So, countries can prepare fresh water, they can prepare for potentially upcoming drought or an increased risk for drought or an increased risk for flooding.
 
So this gives a lot of communities across the entire globe. Months in advance knowledge where usually they would only have maybe a couple of weeks or even less to be able to prepare for such climate extremes.
 
CHURCH: Right. That is critical, isn't it? And scientists say that this year looks particularly worrying. Why is that?
 
DI LIBERTO: Well, this El Nino is actually occurring against the backdrop of just the oceans everywhere being so much warmer than average. And, frankly, we haven't seen an El Nino develop against the global oceans being as warm as they are right now. And that can cause all sorts of impacts. It can sometimes amplify or make El Ninos impacts worse. Maybe it can lead to there being these conflicting climate patterns.
 
These climate Titans fighting each other for an influence. But it's something that we're just having experienced before. And we've seen ocean temperatures be well above average from, you know, the Indian Ocean, to the North Atlantic, to the South Atlantic, to the majority of the Pacific Ocean. It's just kind of a new place to be in with these with this El -- with this El Nino developing.
 
CHURCH: And of course, the last time El Nino was in full swing was 2016. What did we learn from that that could perhaps be useful this time around?
 
DI LIBERTO: Well, each El Nino is its own events. You really can't say that just because something happened in 2016 means it's definitely going to happen this time around, which means that everyone has to be vigilant for what potentially could happen even though there's no necessary guarantee. The other thing to note with 2016 is that 2016 was the warmest and still is the warmest year on record. 
 
So, El Nino is tend to be a thumb on the scale of our global temperatures. So, if we do continue to see this El Nino develop throughout the rest of 2023 and into 2024. Don't be surprised if next year we start seeing temperatures get pretty warm and potentially even approach record breaking. It's not a guarantee of it happening. But El Nino years tend to be the warmest years on record when they do occur.
 
CHURCH: And what is the difference between El Nino and climate change? Do people get them confused do you think? Do people know when they're dealing with El Nino and when they're dealing with climate change?
 
DI LIBERTO: It's hard to say sometimes. It can be very confusing, especially if El Nino tends to lead to there being extremes that are similar to the sorts of impacts that they've been seeing more often because of human caused climate change. But El Nino is a natural climate phenomenon. It's part of the complexity of our planet. It just exists because our planet exists. While climate change is being caused by human emissions of greenhouse gases.
 
Now, sometimes these things can impact each other. So climate change, we like to think of it as impacting the impacts from El Nino. So, if El Nino tends to bring heavier rainfall than normal, climate change might make that rainfall even heavier. If El Nino tends to lead to there being less precipitation and more drought, climate changes, warmer temperatures might lead to there being an increased severity of drought. And that's kind of the best way of thinking about the difference between the two of them.
 
CHURCH: Yes. So important to make the differentiation, isn't it? Tom Di Liberto, thank you so much for talking with us. Appreciate it.
 
DI LIBERTO: Thanks for having me.
 
CHURCH: Coming up next. The U.S. Secretary of State wraps up his trip to China with a key meeting. What Antony Blinken is saying about the progress made during his visit.
 
And a little later. A ferocious 11-hour firefight in the West Bank. We will take you to Jerusalem to find out what set it off and what the U.S. is now insisting Israelis and Palestinians do.
 <br>[02:15:01]
 
Back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. The U.S. Secretary of State has now arrived in London after wrapping up his high stakes trip to Beijing. Antony Blinken is set to attend the Ukraine recovery conference to help mobilize international support for the war-torn country. He also plans to meet with his counterparts from the U.K., Ukraine and other partners and allies.
 
Taiwan's foreign ministry is reacting to Blinken's visit to Beijing saying it welcomes the United States firm stance on maintaining peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait. The issue of Taiwan was just one topic discussed during two days of talks between America's top diplomat and Chinese officials, including President Xi Jinping. The visit aimed at easing tensions between the two nations. But key issues remain unresolved. CNN's Kylie Atwood has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Secretary of State Antony Blinken casting U.S.-China relations as a work in progress at the end of his two-day visit to Beijing coming when tensions between the competing nations have never been greater.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: It was clear coming in that the relationship was at a point of instability and both sides recognize the need to work to stabilizing.
 <br>[02:20:00]
 
ATWOOD (voiceover): After about 10 hours with the country's top foreign policy officials, Blinken kept his visit by sitting down with Chinese President Xi Jinping being.
 
The Chinese leader saying the two sides had made progress. But on one major objective that Biden administration officials set out to accomplish standing up military to military channels of communication between the superpowers Blinken left empty handed.
 
BLINKEN: China has not agreed to move forward with that. I think that's an issue that we have to keep working on.
 
ATWOOD (voiceover): The vital need for these channels evident in just the last few weeks when aggressive Chinese maneuvers resulted in two military incidents between the U.S. and China in international waters and airspace of the South China Sea. But Blinken did walk away with a significant Chinese commitment. Standing up a working group on fentanyl with the majority of precursor chemicals from the deadly synthetic opioids flowing into the U.S. coming from China. 
 
BLINKEN: My hope and expectation is we will have better communications, better engagement going forward.
 
ATWOOD (voiceover): The meetings marked with polite smiles. The tone a stark contrast to the first time Blinken sat down with his Chinese counterpart in Alaska in 2021, when both sides traded barbs in front of cameras.
 
In Beijing, Chinese officials again told Blinken that the Chinese government would not provide lethal support to Russia for the war in Ukraine.
 
BLINKEN: This is something that China has said in recent weeks and has repeatedly said not only to us, but to many other countries that have raised this concern.
 
ATWOOD (voiceover): Chinese Foreign Ministers Qin Gang accepted Lincoln's invitation to visit the U.S. and President Biden indicated that he's gearing up to meet with Chi in the coming months.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'm hoping that over the next several months. I'll be meeting with Xi again. Talking about legitimate differences we have but also all those areas we can get along
 
ATWOOD: It does appear that Blinken's visit here to Beijing is serving as somewhat of a springboard for further dialogue face to face conversations between U.S. and Chinese officials. He said that senior administration officials are expected to visit Beijing in the coming weeks. We know that the Biden administration had been looking at visits to Beijing for their commerce secretary, for their treasury secretary, for their climate envoys. We'll watch to see when those get scheduled. And it's important to note that China has a vested interest in engaging with the U.S. on economic and trade issues. Particularly because there's been a slowdown in their economy recently after their post COVID economic boost. And just last month, there was an all-time record high rates of youth unemployment in the country.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And that was CNN's Kylie Atwood reporting from Beijing. Earlier, I spoke with Bobby Ghosh, columnist and editorial board member with Bloomberg opinion. And I asked him what concrete progress was really made in resetting the tense relationship between the US and China.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BOBBY GHOSH, COLUMNIST AND EDITORIAL BOARD MEMBER, BLOOMBERG OPINION: Concrete progress is very hard to define, given the nature of diplomacy. All we've -- all that both sides have said is that they will keep talking, which I suppose you could say that is the ultimate goal of any diplomatic initiative as long as two parties keep talking. And in this case, the two most powerful countries, two most powerful militaries in the world.
 
Keep talking, that's a good thing for them. That's a good thing for everybody. So, I think Blinken, the Biden administration were very careful to manage expectations ahead of time. They did signal that no concrete results should be expected from this visit. But he got to see Xi Jinping face to face. This was the first visit of a Secretary of State to the -- to China in five years. These are not small things.
 
And there's talk of more American officials engaging with their Chinese counterparts in the months ahead. Possibly even a Xi Jinping- Biden meeting during or after the U.N. General Assembly in the fall. So, in some talks about more talks, but that's not a bad thing.
 
CHURCH: And no military-to-military communication channels were set up but between the two superpowers, which is of course crucial, given some recent close calls that we've seen. The progress was made on the issue of fentanyl, with the plans to set up a working group on the deadly drug. But Taiwan still remains the toughest challenge for both nations, doesn't it? What needs to happen on that issue? Is it even solvable given both sides are pretty much at opposite ends?
 
GHOSH: I don't think is a solution that neatly ties up all the issues into a bowl is conceivable or possible. You pointed out the failure of -- the failure of any progress on military-to-military communications.
 <br>[02:25:05]
 
This is very important in the context of China because there's a lot of military activity around Taiwan, the Taiwan Straits, the Chinese Navy, the Chinese Air Force, Taiwanese defense forces and American ships and aircraft not far away from that area. There's always a risk of something going wrong. Two planes flying too close together, ships miscommunicating and something going off.
 
That is the -- that is the nightmare scenario for military planners everywhere. This is the sort of thing we used to worry about at the height of the Cold War between the Soviet Union and the United States. But there was communications between Moscow and Washington at that time, just to prevent any kind of sudden an untoward incident. That kind of communication is not taking place between China and the United States right now. That's something we should all be concerned about.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And our thanks to Bobby Ghosh for his perspective and analysis there.
 
An extraordinarily violent confrontation between Israelis and Palestinians leaves multiple people dead and almost 100 wounded.
 
Coming up, we will tell you what set off an 11-hour firefight.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:30:00]
 
CHURCH: A massive firefight between Israeli soldiers and Palestinian militants erupted Monday in the West Bank, leaving at least five Palestinians dead and dozens wounded.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHURCH (voiceover): It happened as Israeli forces arrested two suspects in the city of Jenin here an IED explodes under an Israeli truck, wounding some of the eight Israeli troops hurt in the battle. Israel opened fire with attack helicopters to provide cover as the IDF evacuated its wounded soldiers. The first time it has done that since the early 2000s. The Palestinians say the fighting went on for 11 hours and then more than 90 Palestinians were wounded. And at least five Israeli vehicles were damaged, and you can hear the rattle of gunfire even as they moved out of the city. And as a Palestinian ambulance siren blaring raced away in the other direction.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH (on camera): Well, journalist Elliott Gotkine has been following this major confrontation for us from Jerusalem. He joins us now, good to see you, Elliott. So, what more are you learning about what triggered this deadly firefight? And of course, the resulting fallout?
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST: Rosemary, this raid by the IDF to arrest militant from Hamas and another one from Islamic Jihad has been played out many times, over the past few months. They always erupt in firefights of some kind and they're always casualties. But the scale of the gunfight of the exchange of fire that erupted after the Israelis or as the Israelis went into arrest of these two suspects yesterday morning on Monday morning is not something that was expected. And certainly, not something that the IDF was planning for. As you say they went to arrest these militants, this firefight
 
 erupted, including this Improvised Explosive Device or IED which damaged some of these armored vehicles. And injured a number of these soldiers, eight Israeli soldiers were injured in total. And this was an IED that was described by the IDF as pretty advanced in its words. And in fact, as a result of this IED and this massive gun battle that ensued, the IDF had to call in for support from that Apache helicopter, something that it hasn't done in the West Bank for something like two decades.
 
And the result of all of this, as you said up until a few minutes ago, the death toll on the Palestinian side was five. In fact, we've now had it confirmed by the Palestinian Ministry of Health that another Palestinian man has succumbed to his wounds. There are six Palestinians dead as well as scores injured, and as I say, eight Israeli soldiers injured. Some of them received a visit from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday showing, of course, his support for Israeli forces, Israeli security force. And also, one imagines given the political backdrop right now and the pressure he's under to show that he is very much in control.
 
We've also had word from the U.S. State Department Spokesperson urging de-escalation saying we call on both sides to refrain from actions that escalate tensions. Now, the IDF we spoke with them, this morning. They say these kinds of raids will continue, they will continue to go after militants that they feel they need to but perhaps, given what we saw on Monday, Rosemary. They may have to slightly rethink their tactics. Back to you.
 
CHURCH: All right, Elliot Gotkine, join us live from Jerusalem, many thanks. Coming up here on CNN NEWSROOM. Russia's most prominent opposition figure says he's going to turn Russians against the war in Ukraine even as he faces another trial.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Ukrainian officials say Russia launched a massive air assault on the capital Kyiv overnight, firing waves of drones from all different directions. Those officials also say air defenses were able to intercept most of the attacks. But the Moscow targeted other cities across the country from Lviv in the West to Zaporizhzhia in the East. Meanwhile, Ukraine says Russia's major battlefield focus right now is in the East with dozens of combat engagements on Monday alone. Ukrainian military officials say Russia is throwing everything at them infantry units, air units and assault units made up of Russian convicts. But despite the pressure, Ukraine's President is painting a hopeful picture. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): In some sectors our forces are moving forward. In others they are defending positions or resisting assaults and intensified attacks from the occupiers. We have no last positions only liberated ones. They only have losses.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And further South, battles are very hard going, one Ukrainian fighter says Russians are digging in and are unleashing a massive firepower from all directions. They've also set up dense minefields along the front lines. Well, new trial has begun for jailed Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny. This time on so called extremism charges which he and his supporters say are absurd and politically motivated. Navalny appeared in court Monday at a penal colony. East of Moscow. Journalists were not allowed inside the courtroom. Germany's Foreign Office says it's a frightening example of what Kremlin critics face for speaking out.
 <br>[02:40:05]
 
But even behind bars, facing health problems and new charges, Navalny is still fighting for change in Russia. On Monday, he tweeted, "I want to call everyone to action and use this day to announce our new very important project. We will conduct an election campaign against the war and against Putin. A long stubborn, exhausting but fundamentally important campaign where we will turn people against the war." And thank you so much for joining us, I'm Rosemary Church. For our international viewers, "WORLD SPORT" is up next. And for our viewers here in the United States and in Canada, I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM after a short break. Do stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: A warm welcome back to our viewers in North America, I'm Rosemary Church. I want to go back to our top story now. A search and rescue mission is underway for a missing submersible carrying five people to see the wreckage of the Titanic. The sub belongs to the commercial underwater exploration company OceanGate. It has five people on board and three of them have been identified.
 
Hamish Harding is the founder and share of Dubai-based action aviation. He wrote on Instagram that this mission would likely be the only manned mission to the Titanic this year. And Pakistani businessman Shahzada Dawood and his son Suleman were also on board according to their family. The father is on the Board of Trustees of the SETI Institute in California, a nonprofit research organization.
 
And earlier, I spoke with David Gallo, Senior Advisor for Strategic Initiatives at RMS Titanic Inc., and I asked him about the challenges for the people in the submersible as well as the search and rescue personnel trying to save them.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID GALLO, SENIOR ADVISER FOR STRATEGIC INITIATIVES, RMS TITANIC, INC.: It is a race against time. You're fighting oxygen levels. They should have a day or two more left of oxygen. Also fighting the cold if the sub is still in the bottom because the deep ocean is just above freezing cold. So, hypothermia is an issue. I think that was the biggest thing is where is it. Is it on the bottom? Is it floating? Is it mid-water? And that's something that hasn't been determined yet.
 
Now, hopefully, with all the help that coming to bear, it will be found fairly quickly. But that's a dangerous thing to say because I don't know if that means a day or two days or three weeks. And we'll have to wait and see and hope for the best.
 
CHURCH: And, of course, once the submersible is located, it then has to be rescued. How complicated will that process be given the deep waters around the records of the Titanic?
 
GALLO: Complicated because -- you said it, the water is very deep two miles plus, and it's like a visit to another planet. It's not what people think it is. It's sunless forever, cold environment, and high pressure. And so, yes, it's one thing is to get there. A second thing is to understand the situation about what the problem is with the sub and then go to work and trying to extricate it from that. The good news is, is that the technology to do that and the techniques and the talent to do that is all there. And if anyone can get that done that group if things fall in the right place, I can do that.
 
CHURCH: Yes. And of course, as you mentioned, the hardest part right now is finding this sub. How do rescuers locate a small submersible like this in such deep and expensive waters?
 
GALLO: It's very different from something like Air France or Malaysian Air in that. The surface ships should have a pretty good idea where the sub was last known -- its last known position. A sub won't go very far. It might -- if it's gotten into trouble on the surface, it may drift a bit but -- on the bottom motoring, two miles an hour or something like that. So, the search area should be small.
 
That doesn't mean it'll be easy to find. But it means that you can focus on a very tight area, and bring your sonars in, and cameras in, and whatever you need to do into that area to try to locate the sub. So, it's not like looking for a huge area of the seafloor. It's a fairly small area.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Both the U.S. and Canadian coast guards are assisting in the search efforts. A holiday weekend in the U.S. turn deadly as a string of mass shootings and violence swept across the country. In Milwaukee, the police say six teenagers were shot Monday after a Juneteenth Celebration. They say they believe the shooting stemmed from a fight between the teens. Since Friday, at least 15 people have been killed and dozens more injured in as many as 21 shootings in multiple cities. CNN's Adrienne Broaddus has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICHELLE PETERSON, VICTIM: This is the one that hurts the most. I had stitches in my head as I already have a hole. ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Nichelle Peterson was among the 22 injured in a parking lot party in Illinois Saturday night, about 21 miles west of Chicago. At least one person was killed. Bullets grace Peterson's shoulder and forehead.
 <br>[02:50:02]
 
PETERSON: I was in the backseat hiding. And they just kept going across me, but I couldn't get any lower. Do you know what I mean? I just heard it and I felt it. At least 30 rounds went through my car alone.
 
BROADDUS (voiceover): The DuPage County Sheriff's Office says deputies were on site to monitor the event.
 
PETERSON: It's just the Juneteenth party. I'm not exactly sure who threw it.
 
BROADDUS: But around 12:25 a.m., they got called to respond to a nearby fight and immediately returned when they heard gunfire.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Next thing you know Sasha's got going off and everybody ran, and it was chaos.
 
BROADDUS (voiceover): Investigators say multiple suspects fired multiple rounds into the parking lot crowd.
 
MARKESHIA AVERY, WITNESS: We just started to hear the shoot coming from behind us so we dropped down. We dropped down. It's a -- they stopped. They just kept going.
 
BROADDUS (voiceover): In downtown St. Louis, a 17-year-old male was killed and at least nine others hurt. It happened at a party held in an office building.
 
TISHAURA JONES, MAYOR OF ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI: It's every parent's worst nightmare tenfold.
 
BROADDUS: Officers say multiple weapons were found at the scene including an AR-style rifle, and they're still trying to figure out how the group got access to the building.
 
ROBERT TRACY, POLICE CHIEF, ST. LOUIS: It was planned in advance. We're still investigating who had access to it.
 
BROADDUS (voiceover): In Central Washington State, two people are dead and several others hurt after a mass shooting at the campgrounds near The Gorge Amphitheater in Quincy, about 150 miles east of Seattle.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We were just trying to come out here to have fun.
 
BROADDUS (voiceover): It happened around 8:25 p.m. local time during an electronic dance music festival. The Grant County Sheriff's Office says the shooter shot four people in the campground and then continued firing into the crowd. According to CNN affiliate, KOMO, when officers caught up to the suspect they fired their weapons, injuring the alleged shooter who survived.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We don't know what the motives were or what the intentions were of the shooter.
 
BROADDUS (voiceover): And on Friday night in Carson, California, eight people were injured during a shooting at a home about 17 miles south of Los Angeles. It happened in a cul-de-sac where it's believed around 20 to 30 people were gathered. Deputies say the victims ranged in age from 16 to 24.
 
MYRON JOHNSON, CHIEF, LASD SOUTH PATROL DIVISION: We did get some indication there might have been a fight before the shooting. But that's all being investigated.
 
BROADDUS (voiceover): Adrienne Broaddus, CNN, Willowbrook, Illinois.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: A U.S. Magistrate is barring Donald Trump and his co-defendant from disclosing any information handed over to their attorneys in the classified documents case. Special Counsel Jack Smith asked for the ban. Trump went on Fox News, Monday and offered his latest explanation for not handing over boxes of documents to government investigators.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: But a lot of things in there. I will go through those boxes. I have to go through those boxes. I take out personal things. As far as the levels and all, everything was declassified because I had the right to declassify it.
 
BRET BAIER, ANCHOR, FOX NEWS: Why not just hand them over them?
 
TRUMP: Because I had a -- boxes I want to go through the boxes and get all my personal things out. I don't want to hand that over to NARRA yet. And I was very busy as you've sort of seen.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: More now from CNN's Justice correspondent Jessica Schneider.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JESSICA SCHNEIDER, CNN JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well, the judge has issued a four-page protective order and it details several prohibitions on the former president and his co-defendant, Walt Nauta.
 
SCHNEIDER (voiceover): That's because Justice Department officials want to ensure that all of the information they hand over as part of this discovery process in this prosecution is kept private.
 
SCHNEIDER: So, Donald Trump and won't nada and their lawyers would be barred from several things. First of all, sharing any information they're given with anyone other than their lawyers or people involved in the defense. SCHNEIDER (voiceover): In addition, Trump and Nauta will only be allowed access to this material under the direct supervision of their attorneys. Now, they can take notes, but their notes must be kept in the possession of their attorneys and stored securely. And finally, nothing that DOJ gives can then be shared on social media.
 
This sort of protective order is definitely standard in criminal cases like this. And the order, it must be signed by all parties who are privy to the information collected and then handed over by prosecutors.
 
SCHNEIDER: And it's really to protect against the disclosure of sensitive information like grand jury transcripts, especially when other investigations we know are still ongoing. Of course, the special counsel's probe continues into efforts by Trump and his allies to overturn the 2020 election. So, DOJ really needs to make sure that information about those other investigations is not disclosed publicly. And that's what this protective order does. Jessica Schneider, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: British lawmakers have overwhelmingly voted to uphold a report claiming a former Prime Minister Boris Johnson lied to Parliament multiple times over the Partygate scandal. That report from a House of Commons committee found Johnson knowingly misled lawmakers over breaches of his own COVID locked-down rules when parties were thrown at Downing Street during the pandemic.
 <br>[02:55:06]
 
Many conservatives abstained or were not present for the vote, including many of Johnson's allies. Johnson resigned as an MP earlier this month, so the vote is mostly a symbolic rebuke.
 
And thank you so much for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. CNN NEWSROOM continues next with Bianca Nobilo live from London.
 <br>[03:00:00]