Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Ohio Resident Still Fearful Weeks After Toxic Chemical Spill; Intense Fighting Underway In Eastern Ukrainian City Of Bakhmut; California Man Charged With Hate Crimes In Shootings Of Two Jewish Men; Prosecution: GPS Date Doesn't Support What Murdaugh Told Investigators; FDA Advisers Recommend Making Narcan Available Over- The-Counter; Festivities Tip Off With Rising Stars Tournament. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired February 18, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Hello, thanks for joining me. I'm Paula Reid, in for Fredricka Whitfield.
 
It's been two weeks since the fiery train derailment in East Palestine, Ohio and residents are still frightened and frustrated.
 
Ohio Governor Mike DeWine, says FEMA is deploying an assistance team to help after the derailment caused a toxic spill.
 
Residents were given the all clear to return home back on February 8th, but test results haven't been reassuring. Folks are worried that rashes headaches, and other symptoms may be tied to chemicals from the crash. They say something is making them sick even if officials can't find it.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KRISTINA FERGUSON, RESIDENT, EAST PALESTINE, OHIO: We need help. We do. We need -- we need President Biden, we need FEMA housing. People were getting sick.
 
JAMI COZZA, RESIDENT, EAST PALESTINE, OHIO: The railroad set out his toxicologist who deemed my house not safe. But had I not use my voice, had I not thrown a fit? I will be sitting in that house right now when they told me that it was safe.
 
JIM STEWART, RESIDENT, EAST PALESTINE, OHIO: I don't recommend you put anything in the ground. I mean, vegetables or tomatoes, or anything this year, because we don't know.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID: CNN's Polo Sandoval joins me now with more details. Polo, what are you learning?
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Yes, those officials on the ground, they maintain that after rigorous testing that the air and the water there on that region is safe.
 
But as you just heard from members of the community that those are -- assurances are doing little to actually calm any of their concerns. That's because of the long list of chemicals at the site. And it's one of the reasons why officials still want more to be done.
 
You just read them for yourself here. And it's not just the concerns there in East Palestine, but also downriver and other surrounding communities.
 
Officials there, rather, people there are concerned that not enough is being done to guarantee their safety.
 
Now, in terms of what we expect, officials recently announcing that not only FEMA is headed to the ground, but as they consider that as they continue with the cleanup efforts, they will also be sending medical personnel at the federal level, as well as experts in the field of toxicology, to set up clinics in the coming days, to meet with some of these individuals that have recently reported symptoms including experiencing rashes, sore throats, headaches, feeling nauseous as well, to hear their concerns, and to examine them. To see if they're potentially linked to this toxic chemical spill.
 
Ohio Governor Mike DeWine, explaining more about we expect in the coming days.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. MIKE DEWINE (R-OH): The people who will come in and we expect them in early next week, will also have access to the best experts in the world in regard to chemical exposures.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANDOVAL: So, we'll certainly have to see exactly what happens in the coming days and how those residents receive this kind of news here.
 
Also, on its way to Eastern Ohio, as we mentioned, FEMA resources in addition to, former President Donald Trump, recently announcing that he plans to visit the area in a few days, possibly on Wednesday, though the plans on the former president's visit still not yet finalized. Paula.
 
REID: Paula Sandoval, thank you.
 
And turning now to Russia's war in Ukraine and the international effort to bring the bloodshed to an end.
 
This morning world leaders are gathering at the Munich Security Conference with Russia's invasion top of mind.
 
Vice President Kamala Harris, reinforcing the U.S.'s support for Ukraine sovereignty, but also vowing to hold Russia responsible for what she calls crimes against humanity.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: In the case of Russia's actions in Ukraine, we have examined the evidence. We know the legal standards. And there is no doubt, these are crimes against humanity.
 
REID: The U.S., vowing to help Ukraine bring justice by documenting potential war crimes and pledging assistance to investigators and survivors.
 <br>[12:05:05]
 
Assurances and pledges aside, there is still intense fighting underway in many parts of Ukraine. Russian forces, trying to make advances in the south and the east.
 
CNN's Alex Marquardt is in Kyiv. Alex, what are you seeing there today?
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Well, Paula, according to President Zelenskyy, in the past day, there have been attacks on at least 10 regions across Ukraine. And earlier today, we saw yet another wave of Russian cruise missiles hitting across the country.
 
Four cruise missiles, the Ukrainian air force says fired from the Black Sea. At least two were intercepted. There were also two explosions in a southwestern city where a military facility was struck.
 
But this comes Paula not just a few days before the first anniversary of Russia's invasion, but also as we believe, we are starting to see the beginning stages of a new Russian offensive. An offensive that so far, we must say, is not going well.
 
And one of the places that Russia is making its biggest push is in the eastern city of Bakhmut, where there has been fierce fighting over the past few months between Ukrainian forces and mercenaries and convicts from the Wagner Group.
 
Take a look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARQUARDT (voice over): Just a week from the first anniversary of the Russian invasion, this is, according to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the toughest fight in Ukraine right now in the eastern city of Bakhmut.
 
Called a meat grinder by both sides, Russian troops from the Wagner mercenary group, most of them convicts continued to be sent in. Wave after wave to their deaths.
 
JOHN KIRBY, COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL: Men that he just plucked out of prisons and threw on the battlefield with no training, no equipping, and no organizational command, just thrown them into the fight. 90 percent killed were convicts.
 
We believe that Wagner continues to rely heavily on these convicts in the Bakhmut fighting, and that doesn't show any signs of abating. MARQUARDT: The battle laying there, the stark divisions on the Russian side.
 
With Wagner chief, Yevgeny Prigozhin, openly blasting Russia's official military leadership. Saying they manage soldiers from beauty salons and country clubs. Arguing that if there were more of his private troops, they would be halfway across Ukraine by now.
 
The toll has been so severe on the Russian side that according to Ukrainian officials, regular troops have been backfilling Wagner, mechanized infantry and tank units supported by artillery and aircraft.
 
If Russia were to take Bakhmut, it would change little, but be a symbolic victory as Ukraine struggles to keep them at bay.
 
President Zelenskyy, urging world leaders at the Munich Security Conference to speed up their military aid. Comparing the fight to Goliath taking on David in his sling.
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: We need to hurry up. We need the speed, speed of our agreements, speed of our delivery to strengthen our slink. Speed of decisions to limit Russian potential.
 
MARQUARDT: That Russian potential is still significant, with hundreds of 1000s of mobilized troops believed to be in reserve and Russian President Vladimir Putin able to call up more to offset his enormous losses.
 
Now, according to the U.S. State Department, numbering over 200,000, Russian dead and wounded.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARQUARDT: And Paula, of course, Ukraine has suffered tremendous losses as well, not just in Bakhmut, but all across the country over the past year, both Ukraine and the U.S. not as transparent about those figures.
 
But Ukraine is expected to mount their own counter offensive in the coming weeks in the southern part of Ukraine. At least some of those forces will be made up of newly trained forces, who were trained in a new program at a U.S. base in Germany. 
 
The first phase of that five-week training now over more than 600 troops just went through and other more than 700 have just started it, and the focus there is on combined arms and maneuvers so that these troops can change the tactics, change the way they fight, and use many of those armored vehicles that have been committed to them by the U.S. and other Western countries.
 
But, of course, Ukraine still pushing not just for the weapons deliveries to be sped up, but for them to be upgraded. Fighter jets is something that Ukraine has been pushing for.
 
We heard the Ukrainian foreign minister again today calling for fighter jets, the training of pilots. Now, the likelihood of that is a long way off. But the foreign minister today expecting that it is inevitable, saying it is just a question, as he said, of time and procedure. Paula?
 
REID: Alex Marquardt, thank you.
 
And two different Jewish men were shot in Los Angeles this week, both, targeted by the saw suspect because he thought they looked Jewish.
 
And this wasn't the suspects first hate filled attack. His history targeting Jewish people next.
 <br>[12:10:02]
 
Plus, the prosecution rests in the double murder trial of Alex Murdaugh, after sharing critical new evidence, the latest next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
REID: A California man is in custody on hate crime charges after he allegedly shot two Jewish men in Los Angeles. Authorities say the suspect targeted the victims as they were leaving religious services at two separate synagogues earlier this week.
 
CNN's Camila Bernal joins me now live from Los Angeles. Camila, what more are you learning about these shootings?
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Hey, Paula. Well, you mentioned these two separate shootings that very similar, and these two men who were shot.
 
They were walking home from the synagogue, so they were easily identifiable as Jewish men.
 
And authorities after these two shootings both Wednesday and Thursday started searching for that shooter. They found him about an hour away from this neighborhood.
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
And after he was arrested, he did tell authorities that he was, in fact, the person that shot these two Jewish men. He also said that he was looking in this area for kosher markets.
 
He also mentioned what was -- what he described as headgear, which is what these two men were wearing. So, again, things that easily identified these men as Jewish.
 
After the arrest, authorities also looking into his past, and saying that he was previously arrested for carrying a gun on school grounds.
 
There was also some background there in terms of anti-Semitism. Because they found messages to classmates and e-mails and text messages to classmates that were hateful and threatening.
 
And so, the U.S. attorney handling this case now, saying that he is likely or could face up to life in prison if convicted of these crimes, saying, and denouncing the hate that was seen in this neighborhood over the last couple of days. Here is that U.S. attorney.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARTIN ESTRADA, UNITED STATES ATTORNEY, LOS ANGELES: An individual motivated by anti-Semitism, hatred for people in the Jewish community, committed two tremendously horrible acts. Targeting individuals because of their Jewish faith. Targeting to victims, as they departed from religious services at two different synagogues.
 
This type of criminal conduct is completely unacceptable. Hate crimes have no place in our community, anti-Semitism has no place in our community.
 
Those who engage in these types of hate crimes will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL: And one of the victims speaking out telling his friend that he is lucky to be alive. He has been back at the synagogue and says that this has motivated him to pray even more.
 
But the reality is, that a lot of people in his neighborhood are afraid. They say, yes, we are reassured that they arrested this man. But still, they are worried about what happens next.
 
They're worried about walking through the synagogue, about letting their children play outside. We've seen a lot of security here this morning.
 
There are security guards outside of the synagogue. We've seen mounted police officers essentially going back and forth in this area. But again, just the people that I've spoken to over the last couple of days, saying they're really worried about what happened here. Paula.
 
REID: Camila Bernal, thank you.
 
And Senator Rick Scott is backtracking on his signature spending plan after widespread criticism. Where he stands now on funding for Medicare and Social Security? Next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:21:49]
 
REID: Republican Senator Rick Scott has revised his controversial plan to sunset all federal programs in five years.
 
REID (voice over): He now says he wants to add exemptions for Social Security and Medicare. The change comes after the Florida Senator came under heavy criticism from Democrats, and even some of his -- in his own party for a provision that would have endangered the popular entitlement programs. You may recall that during the president's recent State of the Union address, he brought up Scott's plan and drew loud boos. A tense exchange from Republicans.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I'm not saying it's a majority.
 
I'm not -- politely not naming them, but it's being proposed by some of you.
 
So, folks, as we all apparently agree, Social Security, Medicare is off the books now, right? They're not to be touched?
 
SEN. RICK SCOTT (R-FL): First off, nobody believes that I want to cut Medicare, Social Security. I've never said it. I want to make sure we balance our budget and preserve Medicare and Social Security. And I've been clear all along.
 
REID: With me now to discuss this and more is Chapin Fay. He's a Republican strategist and a former press secretary for New York Governor George Pataki.
 
And Laura Fink as a Democratic strategist.
 
Chapin, what do you make of Rick Scott changing the language here?
 
CHAPIN FAY, REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST: Well, you know, it's famous that these are the third rail issues in American politics, right? It's very difficult mentioning anything when it comes to these policies.
 
I actually have an issue, and I think a lot of people have an issue with the overall policy he is talking about in general.
 
America, politics is so polarized. I mean, do we expect any major legislation or bills being passed easily or voted on easily with bipartisan support in the coming Congress? Congress's? I don't think so.
 
So, if we have to vote on every single piece, you know, law that's expiring. Because of this bill, I think we're just going to wind up with no loss. I mean, it's going to be pure chaos.
 
REID: Well, to follow up on that, do you think it was because the president applied the pressure or because he knew it wasn't going to resonate with the American people, especially, senior citizens in Florida?
 
FAY: I think both, I think for sure, both. I mean, the American people, you know, these entitlements, whether you like them or not, are sort of here to stay. And I do believe there's work and things that we can do to fix them, make them more efficient, make them better for the American people.
 
But talking about possibly sunsetting them is going to get anyone in trouble of any party.
 
REID: Laura, what's your reaction to this?
 
LAURA FINK, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: I think it was a masterstroke in politics by President Biden. And I think that's because even as a senior citizen himself, he's vowing to be the protector of Social Security and Medicare, a program that is intensely popular.
 
And just for Scott, throwing it out there that they would no longer be a guarantee of the promise of a generation, really has defined the debate not just in this new cycle, but looks to define the debate in the coming year ahead.
 
I thought that it was a masterstroke of getting the press -- using the State of the Union to get the press and America talking about an issue where he clearly wins.
 
REID: Well, if it has Scott already given Democrats a talking point in the upper hand when it comes to talking about Social Security and Medicare for the 2024 election?
 <br>[12:25:07]
 
FINK: I think that's absolutely true and I think that that's what enabled Biden to sort of, you know, hit the ball off the tee, if you will.
 
This was something that has been openly talked about in Republican circles for many years, whether you're talking about senators calling it a Ponzi scheme, or the Republican Study Committee saying that there needs to be cuts.
 
This is something, this falls in line in the timing with the debt ceiling conversation, and it also falls in line with the upcoming election. So, again, putting this issue at the forefront of Americans minds is something that Republicans sort of gave him a softball on.
 
REID: Chapin, how do Republicans recover here?
 
FAY: Well, I think we have a lifetime until the presidential election really heats up. And these issues are going to be debated in a broader way. So, I think -- you know, and you saw Senator Scott, sort of walk back some of those issues. And, you know, say that some of these -- some of these entitlements are going to be exempted and the military exempted.
 
So, I -- you know, I think this issue is not going to be what we are all debating and arguing about next year.
 
REID: And the 2024 presidential race is starting to get more interesting, of course. This week, former South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, announced she is running for president. She's, of course a former U.S. ambassador to the U.N. under former President Trump.
 
She's the first challenger to announced she is running against him.
 
Chapin, does Haley have a shot to actually win the GOP nomination?
 
FAY: Yes, as of right now, again, there's a lifetime -- this race is going to change. The horse race is going to change, right? Very quickly, and many times.
 
But she certainly does have a path. And it depends on whether it's a one on one, if she's the only candidate left standing against President Trump, that's going to be one dynamic. If there are multiple candidates, if Governor DeSantis is in, I think he is fighting for similar voters as President Trump will be fighting for.
 
I think Nikki Haley is fighting for a different set of voters. I believe she's more moderate, though, we will see how she -- how she talks about that moving forward. That can be a death knell in a Republican primary in some states. In most states.
 
So, we'll see. I think there is a lane, especially if President Trump and candidate similar to him are fighting for the same pool of voters. She may have a lane, you know, be able to stick up the middle.
 
REID: And Haley didn't mention Trump directly by name, but she did talk about it being time for a new generation of leaders. She also talked about mental competency tests for politicians over 75 years of age.
 
Of course, both President Biden and former President Trump are over 75. Or do you think that was an effective way of raising questions about both men and their fitness for office without personally attacking them or alienating older voters.
 
FINK: You know, I'm just very confused. And while I love seeing Nikki Haley, throw her hat in the ring, I think what she's doing instead is in a Republican primary, she's throwing shade when the Republican base, would rather she take off her high heel and throw that.
 
So, this is something where she's trying to triangulate, and there really just isn't a lane for her barring some sort of outside force that indict Trump. And she's using age as a cudgel when her second rival is younger than her.
 
So, this is a real thread the needle that is kind of confusing for me, and because I don't really know who her audience is, as she does this sort of Trump two step.
 
So, we'll see if the messaging changes as she approaches the first two primaries in Iowa and New Hampshire. But I would say it's great that she is running, but I just don't see a lane outside of Trump wall, not attacking Trump.
 
REID: No, Laura. Biden had his routine physical this week. And the doctor said he remains "healthy and vigorous". He is 80 years old and hasn't officially decided to run. But all indications are that he plans to run again in 2024.
 
Polls show that Democrats, though do have questions about him seeking a second term. So, what will it take for him to assure Democrats that he is still able to lead the country until he is 86?
 
Well, I think that he is already doing that by showing a sort of a vigorous State of the Union, to essentially informally kick off his campaign.
 
He's going to talk about the results of that Americans may not know about or that haven't really sunk in or that they haven't felt. All while deploying his signature empathy, because there are still a lot of people going through hard times.
 
So, I think you're going to see Joe Biden do what he has always done, which is prove the naysayers wrong. I think he's done that by effectively clearing the field of primary rivals as he moves forward. And I think you're going to see when you watch that poll question be asked a little bit differently. Who would you prefer Joe Biden or a Republican rival?
 
The numbers are vastly different. So, age will certainly be an issue. But if that's the hardest thing Biden has to tackle, I think he is going to be in good shape.
 <br>[12:30:02]
 
REID: And Haley appeared to try to tap into Trump's Make America Great Again sort of nostalgia by talking about how good things used to be during a campaign stop in New Hampshire this week, let's take a listen to what she said.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI HALEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Do you remember how simple life was? And you remember that your parents are what taught you what was right and wrong, and you went to school and they gave you the basics, and neighbors took care of neighbors, and being patriotic with something you felt in your heart and your gut. Do you remember that? Don't you want that again?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REID: Leaves out a lot of the more complicated aspects of previous times in the past century. But, Chapin, will that kinder, gentler brand of nostalgia play with Trump's MAGA base?
 
FAY: I think so. Very similar to his original message. And like you said, it is more, you know, history is more complicated than that. But everything she said is true. You know, education has become more complicated, and politics has infected everything. So we are no longer teaching the basics that you need to live in America. We're teaching political agendas.
 
And it's, you know, you've see the Virginia governor's race. You know, a Republican won that race almost solely on that issue. You know, mothers and fathers and parents got upset about that. And I think people are nostalgic for a time when students came home talking about the, you know, reading, writing arithmetic that they learned in school. REID: And really quickly, before I let you both go, former presidential candidate Marianne Williamson says she's exploring another run for the White House in 2024. Laura, I'll have you weigh in first. What do you think about that news?
 
FINK: Well, I think she's brilliant at building a personal brand and at rallying her range of wellness and new age supporters. I think you might see her do that. I think she's an interesting figure on the American political stage, and I'm sure President Biden may welcome her into the field, but I think it's more of a side game than anything else.
 
REID: All right, Chapin, really quickly, you weigh in?
 
FAY: Don't think it will -- I mean, you know, third party candidates outside the mainstream candidates have a lot of difficulty catching fire in a presidential race.
 
REID: All right, thank you so much to you both.
 
FINK: Thank you.
 
FAY: Thank you. 
 
REID: It's the defense's turn in the Alex Murdaugh double murder trial. The prosecution presented key evidence and has rested its case. What strategy should the defense take now? We'll discuss next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:36:39]
 
REID: New developments in the double murder trial of Alex Murdaugh, the former South Carolina attorney accused of killing his wife and son. Yesterday, the defense called its first two witnesses to the stand. Attorneys have portrayed Murdaugh as a loving father and husband who called 911 after finding the bodies of his wife and son. The defense argues Murdaugh is being prosecuted after a poorly handled investigation, while the real killers remain at large.
 
Now, before prosecutors arrested their case, they presented evidence showing Murdaugh's son confronted his father about pills in the month before his mother and brother were fatally shot. CNN's Randi Kaye has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PETER RUDOFSKI, SLED INVESTIGATOR: This is going to be the full timeline.
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Special agent Peter Rudofski analyzed cellphone data from phones belonging to the victims and Alex Murdaugh, as well as GPS data recovered from their cars. He presented a timeline to the jury from the night of the murders.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And then at 8:44:55, what does it reflect on Paul's phone.
 
RUDOFSKI: You can hear Alex, Maggie and Paul in the background.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Rudofski testified about a key piece of video extracted from Paul Murdaugh's cellphone, that witnesses say puts Alex Murdaugh at the scene just before prosecutors say Paul and his mother were killed.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What time did Paul and Maggie's phones go silent forever?
 
RUDOFSKI: 8:49 is when their phones went silent forever.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Rudofski told the jury that minutes after the murders are believed to have occurred, Alex Murdaugh's phone showed more steps taken than at any other point that evening.
 
RUDOFSKI: Two hundred and eighty three steps.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He's a busy guy right then, wasn't he?
 
RUDOFSKI: Yes.
 
KAYE (voice-over): The witness says cellphone data also shows someone moved Maggie Murdaugh's phone minutes after she died.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: At 9:06:12, what happens?
 
RUDOFSKI: Maggie Murdaugh's phone implements orient change -- orientation change from portrait to orientation sideways.
 
KAYE (voice-over): According to earlier testimony, Alex Murdaugh left the house that night around that same time, 9:06 p.m. to go visit his mother. GPS data from his car shows on his drive, he slowed down right around the spot where his wife's phone was found in the woods the following day.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: After passing that location, is the defendant's vehicle start to accelerate?
 
RUDOFSKI: It does.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Rudofski also told the jury data shows Murdaugh arrived at his mother's house at 9:22 p.m. and left there at 09:43 p.m.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So roughly 20-minute period --
 
RUDOFSKI: Roughly 20 minutes, correct.
 
KAYE (voice-over): That's key because Murdaugh had told investigators in an interview played in court this week that he was at his mother's house for about an hour. But this GPS data shows he was there for just about 21 minutes. His mother's caretaker also testified earlier that he stopped by for about 15 to 20 minutes. Cellphone data shows Murdaugh arrived back home at the murder scene just before calling 911 at 10:06 p.m.
 
RUDOFSKI: This is showing the suburban arriving at the kennels 10:05:57 p.m.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: From the moment, suburban arrived at the kennels, how long did it take for that 911 call to be made?
 <br>[12:40:03]
 
RUDOFSKI: Less than 20 seconds.
 
KAYE (voice-over): Remember, Murdaugh told investigators he tried to turn his son over a couple of times and checked the pulse on both Paul and Maggie all before calling 911.
 
PHILLIP BARBER, ALEX MURDAUGH DEFENSE ATTORNEY: If the person getting out of the car had seen the bodies already and already knew something that's horribly wrong, do you believe that that is an unreasonably short period of time to inspect and call 911?
 
RUDOFSKI: I'm here to testify on this data, not the hypothetical.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KAYE: As far as the car data that shows Alex Murdaugh's car slowed down around the same spot where Maggie Murdaugh's phone was found the next day in the woods. The prosecution seemed to be pointing that out to suggest to the jury that perhaps Alex Murdaugh took that phone from the murder scene and then slowed down so he could toss it out the car window. 
 
They also pointed out that on the way back home that night from his mother's house, he was driving very fast, at one point reaching 81 miles per hour faster than he'd driven all day. And these are dark, windy roads. There are a lot of deer. So the prosecution again suggesting that that was odd and perhaps, maybe he was in some rush.
 
Randi Kaye, CNN, Walterboro, South Carolina.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
REID: Our thanks to CNN's Randi Kaye for that report. And here now to unpack all of this is a defense and trial attorney, Misty Marris. She is joining us live now from New York. And Misty, what stands out to you about how the prosecution laid out its case? Do you think prosecutors have done enough here?
 
MISTY MARRIS, DEFENSE ATTORNEY: So the prosecution here had a really tough job because their forensic evidence was really not there. The forensic evidence was a giant failure. They did not have the blood flutter, they did not have any DNA, they didn't have anything that you would expect to see in this case, especially in the age of CSI, right, where juries are really hungry for that really scientific data.
 
So their case is very circumstantial and they said that right from the get go. A lot of testimony, you know, like 20 days of trial, countless witnesses, lots of really granular, difficult to digest evidence coming in relating to different time frames. But I have to say, this last day of testimony was really, really strong for prosecution because they're really pinning down that timeline, really pinning it down.
 
And I think that the prosecution also had a couple of victories in rulings in that. They got this financial misdeeds in all of these crimes that Murdaugh committed on the finance side, which speaks to their motive. They also had a victory getting in this murder for hire plot and Murdaugh's confession to that, to investigators. So, all of that paints Murdaugh as this liar who's willing to do anything to save his own skin.
 
So on that front, I think the prosecution really got of the benefit of all of that evidence coming in. Without that, I'm not sure they would have had as strong of a case. It all comes down to this timeline.
 
REID: In the absence of forensic evidence, how important do you think this cellphone data is going to be to this case and potentially a conviction?
 
MARRIS: The cellphone data is so critical. Realistically, this is the way the prosecutors are showing the time of death. Remember, the single worst piece of evidence for the defense is that video on Paul Murdaugh's phone putting him at the kennels at 8:45. Again, the guy is a liar. We know that. He's lied to multiple investigators. You know, he's even admitted such the lawyer saying, yes, we can concede he's a liar.
 
But right there, that piece of evidence putting him on the scene was really critical to the prosecution's case. But they're estimating the time of death both using the coroner and the medical examiner's testimony and their findings. But they're also saying that Paul and Maggie never use their cellphones again at 8:49 p.m., that puts Murdaugh there four minutes before their time of death.
 
So the prosecutors are really putting together the pieces here in order to narrow when Paul and Maggie were murdered. Now keep in mind, defense witness yesterday put the coroner on the stand who says from his examination there's a three hour time span. It's an estimate 9:00 p.m. So to your point, that cellphone data and that lack of cellphone activity is absolutely critical to the prosecution's case.
 
REID: And the defense is now presenting its case, what do you expect to hear from them?
 
MARRIS: Well, I know exactly where they're going here. They're going to say this is a botched crime scene, which is true. This crime scene was mishandled in almost every way that came out through the testimony. And they're going to say that matters because there could have been other alternative theories of the case. There could have been other people that investigators should have been looking at as the perpetrator of this crime.
 
And they really set the foundation for this the entire time. And they're going to try and use these financial misdeeds and the drug problem that's come to light in the past couple of days of testimony to say Murdaugh, a lot of people had a bone to pick with this guy. Maybe he had interactions or dealings with the wrong people. And Maggie and Paul were targeted.
 <br>[12:45:18]
 
And then lastly, we have that timeline. The defense is going to try and get away from this timeline of the 8:45 p.m. video where Murdaugh is on tape and the death of Maggie and Paul, which prosecutors have around 9:00. They're going to try and manipulate that timeline because that is the worst fact for the defense if he's there. And Maggie and Paul, in fact, are killed within five minutes, that's a real tough fact to get around. So there's two ways to do it. The first is it wasn't me. I'm not that voice on the video.
 
And the second is to move that timeline, and hit that timeline so it works for the defense. Those are going to be the three buckets we're going to see as the defense continues on with their case. Reasonable doubt, that's what it's all about for the defense at this point.
 
REID: That is what it is all about. Misty Marris, thank you so much. We'll be watching.
 
And tomorrow night, the new three part docuseries, Low Country: The Murdaugh Dynasty, explores the Murdaugh family and the accusations of fraud, scandals, and murder. It airs tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m on CNN. We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:50:52]
 
REID: A medication known to stop a drug overdose in its tracks could soon become easier to obtain. Two FDA advisory committees voted unanimously this week to make Narcan nasal spray available over the counter. CNN's Elizabeth Cohen reports the recommendation now needs full FDA approval.
 
ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Advisors to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration voted to recommend that naloxone or Narcan, should be able to be sold in stores without having to go to a pharmacist. Right now you don't need a prescription, but you do have to ask the pharmacist for this product.
 
But what the advisors said is, look, it should just be out on the shelves along with, say, tylenol or ibuprofen. People should be able to just walk in and get it without asking the pharmacist. This could really increase access to naloxone because it's a very important antidote to an opioid overdose. That means that if the FDA commissioner says OK to this, then you would be able to get Narcan or naloxone just on the shelf, whether it's a supermarket or a drugstore or even, say, a gas station.
 
Now this would be for the no spray version of naloxone. Experts say that being able to buy it in this way would increase access. But they also said there's another impediment. If you don't have health insurance, this drug can be expensive. And they said that bringing the price down would also increase access. The FDA commissioner is expected to sign off on this, but it's not exactly clear when.
 
REID: Elizabeth Cohen, thank you.
 
And it's NBA All-Star weekend. Basketball stars, rookies and celebs descending on Salt Lake City. We'll take you there live next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:57:04]
 
REID: Golf legend Tiger Woods continues his comeback this weekend at the Genesis Invitational in Southern California. Woods was in danger of missing the cut at the tournament after finishing his second round at one over par. But the cut line has been moved and Woods is now back in play. Woods is also facing criticism for a prank he pulled on a fellow golfer this week. He was seen in this photo handing Justin Thomas a tampon after overdriving him on the 9th hole.
 
Woods apologized, saying he didn't mean to offend anyone. He said it was, quote, it was just the way we play pranks one another all the time. But obviously hasn't turned out that way.
 
Now NBA All-Star weekend is underway in Salt Lake City. The biggest names in the game will take part in games tomorrow, but there are some much anticipated events happening tonight. CNN's Andy Scholes joins us from Utah with all the excitement. All right, we are -- you are here at the arena tell us, what should we expect today?
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, well, I tell you what, Paula. We're at Huntsman Arena on the campus of the University of Utah. This place is packed with fans getting ready to watch both teams just practice. That's how excited these fans are for this weekend. They're packing this place just to see the east and the west teams practice. That's going to take place in just a few minutes.
 
Now the festivities actually got going last night with the Rising Stars event, and this year they did this a little different. They actually drafted the rookies and sophomores onto three different teams. They also had a G League team and then the teams played a tournament to decide a winner. And it would be undrafted Jose Alvarado who just stole the show. He was named the event MVP after a great performance, including a game winning three for Team Gasol.
 
And I want you to check out this cute moment after his Alvarado's daughter ran over to be with him during his interview. Now the Pelicans guard who again was undrafted, says he's just proof that you can accomplish anything with hard work and determination.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSE ALVARADO, NEW ORLEANS PELICANS GUARD: It's hard to put in words, you know, this is just something that, you know, you can't write, you could wish for. Then, you know, like you said, anything is possible. You know, like I'm not 6'5, I'm not athletic, I don't got the crazy wings, man, but I got heart that, you know, you can't measure. And if you bring that, you'd be yourself at all times. I think a lot of things will just come your way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: And the festivities will continue tonight with All-Stars Saturday night, which is just always so much fun. You got the skills competition, the three point, the dunk contest coverage starts at 6:00 Eastern on our sister station TNT. I talked with our friends earlier this week over at Inside the NBA who are certainly excited for this weekend.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHAQUILLE O'NEAL, 15-TIME NBA ALL-STAR: Just enjoying the festivities, seeing who wants to make a name for themselves, seeing who says, seeing who's saying, you know what, you get this guy. I want the world to know about me, because so I'm looking to see which young guy is coming and take over.
 <br>[13:00:03]
 
CHARLES BARKLEY, 11-TIME NBA ALL-STAR: Also, weekend is just a great celebration for the NBA family and it's great to come back here. You know two of the best players in NBA history played here for 20 years, basically. So we used to come here quite a bit. They got great fans here, and it's going to be really fun.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: Yes, it's fun time right now. And here, Paula, as we wait for the teams to practice. And we actually don't know the real teams for the game yet because they're going to draft those right before the game tomorrow night. It's first time ever they're going to do it that way.
 
REID: It looks like a blast. Andy, thank you.