Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Biden Speaks in Poland; Ned Price is Interviewed about Russia's Comment on New START Treaty; Rafal Trzaskowski is Interviewed about Warsaw's Challenges. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired February 21, 2023 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:30:00] 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: That happens to be a true story. But, you know, I was here last year and we visited the base where Polish and American troops were and standing side by side, showing our strength and determination. 
 
The truth of the matter is, the United States needs Poland and NATO as much as NATO needs the United States because there is no way in which for our ability to operate anywhere else in the world and our responsibilities extend beyond Europe. We have to have security in Europe. It's that basic. That simple. That consequential. So it's the single most consequential alliance. I would argue, maybe the most consequential alliance in history. That - not just modern history, but in history. And so I made it clear that comments of the United States and our allies as part of the commitment is real. And that a year later, I would argue NATO is stronger than its ever been. 
 
I -- as I told President Zelenskyy when we spoke in Kyiv yesterday, I can proudly say that our support for Ukraine remains unwavering. And as I told our Russian counterpart in our -- well, it was a while now, I said, you're seeking the - the (INAUDIBLE) of NATO. You're going to get the NATO-ization of Finland. And it turns out I didn't know Sweden was come along as well. 
 
But all kidding aside, I think we're in a -- if we keep our head and we are focused, I think we're in a better position than we've ever been. And I want to thank you, President, for how Poland has supported Ukraine. It's been extraordinary, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President, what you've done. Truly extraordinary. 
 
Last year when I was here watching people come across the border and the feeling that those little children, the looks on their faces, those mothers who left behind husbands and fathers, it was just incredible the way you welcomed them. What is it, 1.6 to 1.7 million Ukrainians you've welcomed. And, you know, we -- and we reaffirmed our ironclad commitment to NATO's collective security, including guaranteeing that the command headquarters for our forces in Europe are going to be in Poland, period. 
 
And we're also launching a new strategic partnership with plans to build nuclear power plants and boast Poland's energy security for generations to come. And Mr. President, the connection between Poland and -- Polish and American people is extremely strong and deep. 
 
I was kidding with the president. I was, as a young man, I was born in a coal town of Scranton, Pennsylvania, northeastern Pennsylvania, in an Irish Catholic neighborhood. And when coal died, we moved down to Delaware, to a town called Claymont, Delaware, which was a working class town. And -- but everyone in town was either Polish or Italian. I grew up feeling self-conscious my name discontinued end in s-k-i or an o. 
 
But all kidding aside, the connection between - I was telling the president, the pride, the overwhelming demonstrable pride that the Polish Americans feel about Poland and the role you're playing now. We were talking about it. It's extreme.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.
 
BIDEN: It is - it - it is - you would be - if you haven't seen it, you should come and see it. And - and so there's a lot of challenges that we have to face, but I'm confident we can do to together and develop our partnership even further as we meet the challenges we're about to face. I am absolutely confident in that. 
 
So it's a delight to be back and I'm anxious to get our discussion going. Although the president and I solved all the problems in the other room a moment ago. There's nothing to solve. 
 
But all kidding aside, there is a critical, critical, critical, critical relationship for the United States, and we thank you for all of the cooperation and help. 
 
QUESTION: President Biden, do you have a reaction to Putin's speech today?
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: Biden is answering questions there from reporters as he was having really a fascinating exchange with Polish President Duda. Not necessarily something you thought you would see even two years ago, speaking to the way that Russia's invasion of Ukraine has changed this. 
 
President Duda heaping praise on President Biden and the United States, invoking World War I, World War II, the Cold War, to put this conflict right now that's happening, this war in Ukraine, into perspective and saying he believed America would be able to help and was critical to maintaining the global order. 
 <br>[08:35:04]
 
Quite a moment there. 
 
We'll continue to monitor this meeting between President Biden and President Duda. 
 
We're also going to hear from the State Department spokesman, Ned Price, after Putin said earlier today they were suspending Russia's cooperation in a key nuclear arms treaty. 
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Back now as President Biden meets with Polish President Duda following Biden's surprise visit to Ukraine, to Kyiv yesterday, and Russian President Vladimir Putin's speech, doubling down on Russian's invasion into Ukraine.
 
Moments ago, Secretary of State Antony Blinken responded to Putin's speech saying Russia's decision to suspend participation in inspections as part of the New START Treaty is, quote, deeply unfortunate and irresponsible. 
 
Joining us now is State Department Spokesman Ned Price. 
 
Ned, good morning. Thanks for waiting for us to get through the two presidents there. We appreciate it. 
 
And let's -
 
NED PRICE, STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESMAN: Happy to do it. 
 
HARLOW: Let's start on what Vladimir Putin is saying because the secretary of state's response is, that's really unfortunate. But in his response, Secretary Blinken also said essentially, however, we will talk to Russia about this at any time regardless of what's happening on the world stage, regardless of the invasion of Ukraine, indicating how important it is to maintain this. What does that mean? What do you expect to see happen here? 
 
PRICE: Well, as the secretary said, it's unfortunate. But even more importantly, it's irresponsible. And it's irresponsible because as nuclear powers, we have a responsibility to our own people, but also to people around the world to engage in strategic stability, to engage in arms control talks, to engage in precisely the practices that since the dawn of the nuclear age prevented a nuclear exchange between nuclear powers. 
 <br>[08:40:00]
 
The fact that Russia is stepping back from this deal, it's irresponsible. We've seen irresponsibility in this realm over the past year from the Russians. But we'll have to see about the practical impact. And it's unclear if there will be any practical impact. And I say that because earlier this year we deemed publicly that Russia was in technical non-compliance -
 
HARLOW: Not complying.
 
PRICE: Exactly, technical non-compliance with the New START Treaty, because Russia has for some time refused to meet with us to this -- on this. We're going to watch very carefully to see what, if any steps, practical steps, Russia actually takes. We haven't seen any reason to change our nuclear posture, our strategic posture just yet. But this is something we monitor every day. And t the secretary's point, look, we have proved time and again, in
 
 different flora (ph) and realms, that even in times of tension, even in times of extreme tension with a country like Russia, we're ready, willing and able to do what's responsible for our own people, but also for people around the world. Strategic stability is one of those. We've been calling on Russia for some time to meet with us so we can conduct these inspections, so we can insure that Russia is in compliance. But we'll have to see what Russia chooses to do next. 
 
HARLOW: Ned, just given the fact that the U.S. gad deemed recently that Russia was not in compliance with New START, is it the State Department's position, the administration's position that this announcement by Putin today makes the world more dangerous or not? 
 
PRICE: Well, it's an unfortunate proclamation from President Putin. It certainly doesn't help global stability. But we'll have to see what, if any, steps he takes next. If it's just a proclamation, if it's just for propaganda purposes, if it was just because he wanted a sound bite or a news bite out of what was otherwise a pretty empty state of the nation address, 90 minutes that he gave to his own people, that's one thing. If Russia decides to take steps to actually move in the direction, to actually take steps that heighten the irresponsibility that we've seen from the Russian Federation over the course of the last year with nuclear saber-rattling, nuclear bluster, potential threats, that's very much another. 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: I have a quick question for you. I know that there were - there was communication between the Biden administration and Putin, or at least his folks, saying that they're going into Ukraine. Can you give us some sense of how that happened? I'm curious how that happened. And if you think it's still possible to have some kind of dialogue with President Putin. 
 
PRICE: Well, two points here. One is broader, one is more narrow. 
 
The broader point is that we still do have lines of communication with the Russians. We believe in the necessity of maintaining lines of communication even when we're in a state of relations like we are now. We have an embassy in Moscow. The Russians have an embassy here. Secretary Blinken has demonstrated his willingness to pick up the phone to speak to his counterpart. Foreign Minister Lavrov, Secretary Austin at DOD, Chairman Milley has done the same. Jake Sullivan has done the same. We are acting responsibly. And part of what responsible powers do is maintain the ability to communicate with one another. 
 
Now, the more narrow part of that, yes, we did give the Russians notification that President Biden would be transiting into Ukraine. We didn't want any miscalculation. We didn't want any mistake on their part. It was really a notification. It wasn't a dialogue. You heard from the national security advisor there wasn't much of an exchange. We told the Russians, in a very matter of fact way, that this would be happening. They acknowledged reset. That was it. 
 
SIDNER: I want to quickly follow up with you. You said the word "nuclear," which gives -- puts shivers down my spine when you consider the possibility of nuclear war in 2023 or beyond. Can you give me a sense of what kind of preparation happens if you do think that there is any possibility that a nuclear arms, either race or nuclear arms could be used in this conflict? 
 
PRICE: Well, I don't want to get ahead of where we are. And there have been times in the course of this conflict where we've had heightened concerns about what the Russians may be planning. Going back to what I said just a moment ago, we used those open channels of communication to warn, discreetly, but to warn without any ambiguity or mistaking on their part, the consequences that would rise from any nuclear use. We did that. Countries around the world did that. We engaged from this building, from other buildings as well, with partners, but also countries with whom we have a sometimes complicated even adversarial relationship to encourage them to use the power of their voice, privately but also publicly, with the Russians to reinforce the very simple message that the use of nuclear weapons would bring with it really unimaginable consequences for the Russians. 
 
Let me go back to one other point that took place earlier last year. 
 <br>[08:45:02]
 
The Russians, even in the course of their build up in -- on the border along with Ukraine, signed on to a statement at the U.N. Security Council that reaffirms a maxim that's been around since the Cold War, namely that a nuclear war must never be fought and can never be won. That is something that we still believe in profoundly. It was something that the Russians, in recent months, have reaffirmed themselves. We call on the Russians to make good on that and to cease with this nuclear bluster, with this nuclear saber rattling, and to act responsibly, even as they engage in this brutal war of aggression against the Ukrainian people. 
 
SIDNER: Ned Price, thank you so much for joining us. 
 
HARLOW: Thanks, Ned.
 
PRICE: Thanks very much. Thanks. 
 
HARLOW: Kaitlin. 
 
COLLINS: Yes, notable to hear that. That's like really the first reaction beyond what Secretary Blinken said earlier about these remarks from President Putin. 
 
We're also going to hear from President Biden as he is set to deliver his own speech today at the Royal Palace Garden here in Warsaw. We're going to talk to the mayor of Warsaw about the impact that this invasion has had on his city and on Poland overall. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:50:06]
 
President Biden set to speak there in just a few moments from now at the Royal Castle here in Warsaw, Poland. It's the same place he gave that impassioned plea last year shortly after Russia invaded Ukraine. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Ukraine will never be a victory for Russia, for free people refuse to live in a world of hopelessness and darkness. We will have a different future, a brighter future, rooted in democracy and principle, hope and light, of decency and dignity, of freedom and possibilities. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COLLINS: Joining us now is the mayor of Warsaw, Rafal Trzaskowski, who is -- what a moment you've been living through. You are the mayor of Warsaw. You've now had a presidential visit from the U.S. twice in less than a year. He didn't go to Berlin. He didn't go to London. He didn't go to Paris. What does it mean to you that he's here in Warsaw to give this speech? 
 
MAYOR RAFAL TRZASKOWSKI, WARSAW, POLAND: Well, it's incredible. Of course, the times are very difficult, but it's very important that the president of the United States is in Poland again because it means that we are safe, you know, because with him he brings those guarantees of security. 
 
And, of course, it is immensely important for us that he was in Kyiv, that he showed so much courage, and that the United States of America is ready to help. 
 
COLLINS: And we heard from President Putin this morning giving that lengthy speech. Overall it seemed to signal that he doesn't believe this war in Ukraine is anywhere close to being over. What was your takeaway? 
 
TRZASKOWSKI: Well, unfortunately, it seems that Putin wants to escalate, that he doesn't have a plan b. He miscalculated on so many different fronts. He thought that Ukrainians will not defend their country. He thought that we could be divided. And he just was wrong on both of those counts. 
 
COLLINS: And one thing has been about what the west is sending to Ukraine. That was a major theme of his speech today. One point has been the F-16s. And the U.S. is saying they're not going to train Ukrainian fighter pilots on the F-16s yet. Do you think that's a mistake? Do you think they should do so in case they decide to send them? 
 
TRZASKOWSKI: Well, it's complicated, but the most important thing is that every taboo has been broken because I remember these conversations a year ago, and many people were saying we shouldn't be sending heavy weapons, we shouldn't be tending tanks, and then it turned out that America and other European allies decided to actually help Ukraine because Ukrainians are fighting for our security, so we need to help them as much as we can. 
 
COLLINS: When you say our security, this war is on your doorstep. What does that feel like? TRZASKOWSKI: Well, I mean, Poland is safe. I mean, you see Warsaw,
 
 just behind me, nothing changes. Of course, now, today everything's blocked because of the presidential visit, but life goes on. And thanks to President Biden and the American administration, we feel safe. Thanks to ourselves as well. But thanks to the Ukrainians who are fighting for the stability of the transatlantic alliance, who are fighting for our values. 
 
I mean, you know, we talk about democracy, the rule of law all the time. These guys are actually giving their lives for those values. 
 
COLLINS: And what you seem to be saying is that instead of debating over sending certain weaponry, longer range missiles, planes to Ukraine, they should just go ahead and send it? 
 
TRZASKOWSKI: We should be helping Ukraine as much as we can. And, of course, the Americans are doing it. Pols are doing it. But many of our friends in western Europe were dragging their feet. So we better keep the pressure up because we need to be helping those guys.
 
And, of course, we here in Warsaw, we are helping refugees. We are helping women and children. And that's why many Ukrainians, I've talked to them, you know, on numerous occasions, tell us, we can fight because you're doing - doing your best (ph). So, you are informing. We are helping refugees. Others - other people are sending weapons because we all have a dog in this fight because every dictator, every crazy dictator in the world is watching, whether the west can be united, whether we can be strong and whether we can deliver. 
 
COLLINS: We're a year into this war and Poland saw the most refugees out of anyone. A lot of them came through Poland, went to other places, but many still live here. Over a million in Poland. Hundreds of thousands still live in your city. What is the impact of that a year in? 
 
TRZASKOWSKI: Well, it has been really amazing, this show of solidarity, because, you know, you don't see any people on the street. You don't see any camps for refugees because they're with us, with friends, with family and so on and so forth.
 
And I'm absolutely certain that we will get enriched by all of that. There is a silver lining on that - on that cloud because, you know, Warsaw was one of the most diverse cities in between the wars. And, of course, after the second world war it was changed. 
 
Now, we welcome these Ukrainians here for a while, maybe for longer, and we feel enriched. 
 
COLLINS: And one thing we've seen Polish President Duda call for, other officials here in Poland, is a bigger American presence here, a more permanent presence here. Are there indications you think that that's actually going to happen? 
 
TRZASKOWSKI: Well, we hope so. I mean there is American presence on the ground. And, of course, President Biden said that every inch of NATO territory will be defended. And it, first of all, makes us feel more secure, but it also sends a very strong signal to the Russians that they shouldn't move any further and that, by the way, they should start moving out of Ukraine because the west will be together, will be strong. Next batch of sanctions are being prepared. 
 <br>[08:55:02]
 
So, that's exactly the signal that we should be sending. And those are the words that I'm waiting for that President Biden will deliver in a few hours. 
 
COLLINS: And how long do you think it could go on for? (INAUDIBLE). 
 
TRZASKOWSKI: That's very, very difficult to say, but - but that's why we need to help the Ukrainians because they are bleeding every day. And, as I've said, you know, this is also our war. Some people think this is a war somewhere in the east, and so on and so forth, but this is a war for our values, for the stability of our institutions, for our community. And as I've said, you know, everyone is watching whether we can deliver, whether we can be strong because people thought the west will keep on deliberating and so on and so forth. Now, we showed that we can do it together and we should simply continue doing it. 
 
COLLINS: Mayor Trzaskowski, thank you so much for joining us here. 
 
TRZASKOWSKI: Thank you very much.
 
COLLINS: Thank you for hosting us in your city. And we really appreciate your time.
 
TRZASKOWSKI: A pleasure. Come to Warsaw. 
 
COLLINS: We really appreciate your time this morning. 
 
TRZASKOWSKI: Thank you.
 
COLLINS: Poppy, Sara, we've now been to Warsaw twice in a year now but interesting perspective from a city that has really felt the impact of this invasion. 
 
SIDNER: Kaitlan, thank you so much. Thank you for being there. It's really been quite remarkable and great to have you on the ground there as well. 
 
HARLOW: Yes, Kaitlan, your coverage has been extraordinary. We'll keep watching you through the day as we get ready for the president to speak in a few hours. And we will see you back here tomorrow. 
 
Sara, thank you for being by my side. 
 
SIDNER: It's been my pleasure. I didn't like getting up that early, but -
 
HARLOW: I know. 
 
SIDNER: But because you were here, it made it all right. HARLOW: Thank you. 
 
And Don will be back with us tomorrow as well. Kaitlan will join us live from Poland. 
 
CNN "NEWSROOM" is after this. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:00:00]