Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel, Proposes New Hostage Deal, Pause In Fighting; World Food Programme: Half Of Gaza's Population Is Starving; Trump "Disqualified" From 2024 Ballot In Colorado; Rescuers Search For Survivors As Death Toll Climbs To 131; Lava Flow Eases, Gas Pollution Could Reach Capital; League Play Resumes With More Dissent Against Referees; Former Club President Faruk Koca Could Face Prison Time for Punching Referee. Aired 2-2:45a ET

Aired December 20, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:30]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and to everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church.
 
Just ahead, Israel draws up a new deal, offering a week-long pause in fighting in Gaza in exchange for the release of dozens of Hamas hostages.
 
Donald Trump could get the boot from Colorado's 2024 ballot, after the state Supreme Court ruled, he's ineligible to run for the White House.
 
And thousands of rescuers in China are battling the bitter cold as they race to find survivors from Monday's earthquake.
 
We are live in Beijing with the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN NEWSROOM WITH ROSEMARY CHURCH.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us.
 
Well, Israel is now proposing a new deal to pause the fighting in Gaza in exchange for the release of more hostages held by Hamas.
 
CNN political and foreign policy analyst Barak Ravid, broke that news. Saying, Israel has proposed a one week pause in exchange for 40 hostages that would include women, the elderly, and those in need of urgent care.
 
Ravid says Qatari mediators are now taking that proposal to Hamas for its response. This news comes after Israel's president suggested his country would be willing to agree to a new temporary truce with Hamas in exchange for more hostages.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISAAC HERZOG, PRESIDENT OF ISRAEL: The Israel is ready for another humanitarian pause and additional humanitarian aid in order to enable the release of hostages.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Those comments coming as the U.N. Security Council had been expected to vote on a resolution, calling for a suspension of hostilities in Gaza.
 
But that vote was delayed, and sources say it's now expected to take place in the coming hours.
 
The resolution aims to get more humanitarian aid into Gaza. Diplomats say there have been intense negotiations to finalize the resolution drafted by the United Arab Emirates.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MOHAMED ABUSHAHAB, UNITED NATIONS DEPUTY PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE OF UNITED ARAB EMIRATE: We are now coming to the end of what was the deadliest year in the occupied Palestinian territory. This should be a wakeup call that the current status quo cannot be allowed to continue.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: The militant group, Palestinian Islamic Jihad has released a video of two Israeli hostages. The footage shows the two men speaking in front of a camera. We have decided not to air it because they are likely speaking under duress.
 
In the video they asked the Israeli government to do "everything necessary" to secure their release. They say their lives in Gaza are extremely dangerous. Islamic Jihad released the video a day after Hamas released similar footage, showing three elderly Israelis in captivity.
 
Israel's military said that video reflects Hamas's cruelty against innocent civilians in need of medical care.
 
And CNN's. Clare Sebastian is following developments for us. She joins us now live from London. Good morning to you, Clare.
 
So, what more are you learning about this report of an apparent offer from Israel for a pause and fighting in exchange for the release of hostages being held by Hamas, and what might this indicate about increasing pressure on Benjamin Netanyahu?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Rosemary. I think, it's worth noting the ratio of this offer that is reportedly on the table from Israel. 40 hostages to be released in exchange for a week-long pause. So, a similar length pause to what we saw at the end of November, but half the number of hostages.
 
So, it looks like it could be an attempt to sweeten the deal for Hamas to bring them to the table. As for who it could include? Well, according to this report, it could be the rest of the women that Hamas is holding. So, fulfilling the terms of the last deal. You'll remember one of the reasons why those talks broke down was because Israel believed there were more women being held by Hamas, who Hamas refused to release.
 
Men over 60 as well, people in urgent need of medical care. But this was a relatively quick turnaround because just last week, there was a meeting with the Mossad chief and Qatari officials that was cancelled and Israeli source telling CNN that the conditions were not right to pursue the talks at this point.
 
That meeting with the Mossad chief, by the way, was later reinstated.
 <br>[02:05:02]
 
But all of that happened before the accidental killing by Israel of those three hostages. So, it seems that, that might have been a turning point of sorts that added to the sense of urgency and, of course, the pressure on Benjamin Netanyahu to get this done.
 
Israel no longer able to claim with 100 percent credibility. But its goal of eliminating Hamas is complementing its goal of getting these hostages out.
 
But the Israeli ambassador to the U.S. pointing out there is no deal as of yet. There is no guarantees, that one will happen. There is movement, Rosemary.
 
And Clare, what is the latest on the humanitarian situation right now in Gaza, particularly in hospitals across the enclave?
 
SEBASTIAN: Yes, Rosemary, it's -- you know, it's difficult to describe, but I think, you know, it's worth just pointing out with the aid and humanitarian agencies are saying, according to the World Food Programme, half of Gaza's population is now starving. Those are their words. They say that people are going entire days without eating. Just 10% of the food required for Gaza has entered the strip over the last 70 days.
 
Human Rights watchers now accusing Israel of using starvation as a weapon of war. As for the hospitals, and we know that for many weeks now, the health system in Gaza has been -- has been described as on the verge of collapse.
 
Another hospital, the Hamas-run health ministry in Gaza says the Al- Ahli Baptist Hospital in Gaza is now fully out of service, leaving just 11 of the 36 hospitals in the strip, at least, partially functioning.
 
There was an incident also reported by the Hamas-run health ministry, where a 13-year-old girl, who had been treated at the Nasser Complex in southern -- in southern Gaza for an amputation was then killed when that hospital came under fire.
 
This is something that the UNICEF spokesperson reacted to. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAMES ELDER, SPOKESPERSON, UNICEF: Truly are I'm furious. I'm furious that those with power shrug, as the humanitarian nightmares unleashed on a million children. I'm furious that children who are recovering from amputations in hospitals are then killed in those hospitals. I'm furious that there are more children hiding as we speak somewhere, who will no doubt be hit and have amputations in the coming days.
 
I'm furious that Christmas is likely going to bring increased savagery and attacks as the world is distracted with its own, you know, love and goodwill.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: Well, Israel claims that they do not target hospitals, they only target Hamas strongholds. The have released various pieces of evidence, including video evidence over the past few weeks to try to show that the hospitals are being used by Hamas.
 
This is critical, of course, because if they are being used for military purposes, they lose their protected status under the international humanitarian law. The latest piece of evidence that the IDF release was an interrogation video with the director of one hospital in Gaza, who says, in that video, that the hospital was used by Hamas in the early days of the conflict.
 
We are not showing that Rosemarie because of the possibility that he was not speaking freely.
 
CHURCH: All right. Our thanks to Clare Sebastian, joining us live from London.
 
Joining me now from Southern Gaza is Stephen Ryan, rapid deployment coordinator with the International Committee of the Red Cross. Thank you so much for talking with us.
 
STEPHEN RYAN, RAPID DEPLOYMENT COORDINATOR, ICRC: Thank you, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: So, I do want to start with that report of a new offer from Israel to pause the fighting in Gaza for, at least, one week as part of a new deal to get Hamas to free more hostages in exchange for humanitarian aid and the release of more Palestinian prisoners.
 
What is your reaction to that Israeli deal, apparently made through Qatari mediators?
 
RYAN: Well, certainly from the point of view of the International Committee of the Red Cross, anything that's going to bring some (INAUDIBLE) to the millions of people that are suffering here in Gaza is something that's going to be very welcomed.
 
Of course, these agreements are not something that the International Committee of the Red Cross is involved in. This is something that's between the two parties in conflict. And while fighting is continuing, the suffering will continue here as well. So, this is something that I'm hopeful is going to bring some ease for people that are here in Gaza right now.
 
CHURCH: And meantime, a vote on a consequential U.N. resolution has been delayed and will now take place in the coming hours with the U.N. Security Council trying to get the United States on board with the majority of members in calling for a humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza.
 
What is your message to those U.N. member nations voting today, particularly to the United States?
 
RYAN: Well, I think it's important that all of the states who are at the U.N. recognize that they also have a responsibility to do whatever they can, to exert whatever influence that they have, to try and reduce the level of suffering that's happening here in Gaza.
 
Tens of thousands -- hundreds of thousands of people have been displaced.
 
Many people are living under plastic sheeting.
 <br>[02:10:02]
 
The weather is getting a little bit colder. There is very little access to food, there is very little access to water. And while this conflict rages on, while fighting rages on, both do the suffering.
 
And I think it's important that I -- that people recognize that this can't go on forever. That some action needs to be taken. While it's between date to decide how they are going to respond to this, and between the parties to the conflict to recognize their responsibilities to civilians. We, the International Committee of the Red Cross would welcome any agreements, that's going to bring any red flags for people who are suffering here in Gaza, as well as any agreements which allowed people to return home safely to their homes in Israel.
 
CHURCH: And as you explain, the situation is dire for so many Palestinians dealing with Israeli bombardment, scarce humanitarian aid, as well as wet and freezing weather conditions.
 
So, what needs to be done to help alleviate these nightmare situations for so many people, and how much aid is getting in right now?
 
RYAN: Well, certainly there is aid coming in; a relatively small amounts that compared to the need -- more needs to be able to come in, and that means that we are also happy if there is action taken that allows a greater amount of aid to enter Gaza.
 
But it's not as simple as just sending aid across the border. There also needs to be conditions in place that allow organizations such as the Red Cross to do our work. While Fighting is continuing in areas where civilians are present, it's not possible for us to deliver the aid to the location.
 
It's not a simple idea, just push more trucks in. There also needs to be the ability for us to do our work. People need to be able to access assistance wherever it is, and we, organizations such as us were neutral, we're not part of the fight, need to be able to reach those people wherever they are in Gaza.
 
CHURCH: Stephen Ryan in southern Gaza, many thanks for joining us. We appreciate it.
 
RYAN: Thank you.
 
CHURCH: The United States warns Houthi attacks on commercial ships in the Red Sea have escalated to a level not seen in decades. A senior official says Iran-backed Houthi rebels have launched at least 100 attacks on a dozen different merchant vessels in the last month.
 
The Red Sea is of course home to one of the most important maritime trade routes in the world. The Houthi say they are going after ships they consider to have links in some way to Israel's war effort. Even though multiple companies targeted say they have no connection to it.
 
CNN's Natasha Bertrand has been following this from the Pentagon.
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: The U.S. and its allies are scrambling to respond to a series of attacks by the Iran- backed Houthi rebels in Yemen, who have launched over 100 attacks according to a U.S. military official. Using missiles and drones on commercial vessels in the southern Red Sea over the last four weeks alone. Causing a dramatic impact to international shipping and international commerce.
 
Because of the impact that these attacks have had on these vessels operating there, many companies have said that they're actually pausing their operations in the Red Sea because of the threat of coming under fire by these Houthi militants.
 
So, the U.S. and its allies now trying to find a way to respond that does not involve striking the Houthis directly in Yemen, something that the U.S. has been trying to avoid over the last several weeks.
 
And as a response to the attacks to date, the U.S. now says that they are going to be setting up an international coalition of maritime forces that will essentially be in the region and in the Red Sea available to respond and help commercial vessels if they need it.
 
Some of the vessels or some of the ships, I should say, they will be escorting these commercial vessels if the situation warrants it.
 
And of course, we have also seen the U.S. shoot down a number of the missiles and drones that the Houthis have launched targeting these commercial ships in recent weeks. But it remains unclear whether the Houthis are going to be deterred by this new maritime coalition. They have said that they are going to continue their attacks on these commercial vessels in solidarity they say with the Palestinians and in opposition to these Israelis. However, it's important to note that many of these ships that they have attacked, if not most of them, actually have no ties to Israel at all.
 
And the U.S. says that the Houthis have just been attacking these ships opportunistically, and they have been taking advantage, of course, of the U.S. and allied presence in the area.
 
They want to try to bolster their international reputation and presence there and they think they will be able to get attention by continuing to target these vessels.
 
So, the U.S. facing a very big problem here, growing calls for them to strike the Houthis directly. But at this point, this maritime coalition, according to the secretary of defense, they say, is going to hopefully help ease the problem.
 <br>[02:15:02]
 
Natasha Bertrand, CNN, at the Pentagon.
 
CHURCH: Some of the shipping giants don't want to worry anymore about attacks and whether the coalition will protect them.
 
Maersk says it's rerouting its fleet from the Red Sea and other companies are following suit.
 
Many are now delivering cargo by going around Africa via the Cape of Good Hope. That longer route is expected to snarl supply chains, push up oil prices, and raise inflation, since those higher costs will likely be passed onto consumers.
 
Back here in the United States, Donald Trump's campaign is vowing to appeal a stunning decision by the Colorado Supreme Court disqualifying him from the 2024 presidential ballot.
 
The justices ruled Trump is not eligible to be a candidate because of his role in the 2021 insurrection. CNN's Paula Reid has details.
 
PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: This is a remarkable case from the Colorado Supreme Court. They even acknowledge a right in the top of their opinion, the magnitude and the weight of the questions that they are analyzing here.
 
And here, this court found that former President Trump should be disqualified from being on the ballot in that state, because they say not only that he engaged in an insurrection, but they believe that the 14th Amendment, which bars certain officials from holding office, if they engage in an insurrection, applies, even to presidents.
 
Now, a lower court oversaw a trial in this case. The lower court found that Trump engaged in an insurrection. But he said presidents are not specifically mentioned in that Section Three of the 14th Amendment. So, they said it didn't apply. But here, the Supreme Court, looking instead at the intent behind this amendment. Looking at the overall objective of what they were trying to do when they were working on the language of this specific section.
 
Now, the issue there is that the Trump campaign, the Trump team, they've made it clear, they are going to appeal this to the Supreme Court. This decision will likely be on pause until the Supreme Court weighs in one way or another. But this decision, which is largely based on intent, and larger objective, is likely headed to a Supreme Court that is dominated right now by originalist, textualist, judges who pride themselves on looking at the specific literal words in the constitution.
 
So, may not be the most favorable environment for this Supreme Court of Colorado decision. But again, it's unclear if the Supreme Court will take this up. They likely will want to resolve this issue. Because otherwise, you're going to have this hanging over all 50 states and undecided.
 
And if the Supreme Court weighs in, that decision would be binding across the country. But the Trump team says, they are going to appeal swiftly. And as soon as they do, this decision is on hold until the Supreme Court rules one way or another.
 
Paula Reid, CNN, Washington.
 
CHURCH: Ukraine's president says he is confident the United States will keep its promise to provide wartime support, even as U.S. conservative lawmakers block a new aid package.
 
Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke on Tuesday about the state of the war. He says he has faith despite the waffling in Congress.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): Talking about financial aid, we are working very hard on this, and I'm certain that the United States of America will not betray us. And that on which we agreed in the United States will be fulfilled completely.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Mr. Zelenskyy is also addressing his militaries request to draft up to 500,000 people to join the war. He says it's a complicated issue and is asking for more arguments from military leaders to convince him it's a wise decision.
 
President Zelenskyy also saying the challenges his military faces on the battlefield are immense. But when a reporter asked if he thinks there's a danger, Ukraine is starting to lose the war. Mr. Zelenskyy answered firmly, no.
 
Finland has signed an agreement with the United States for more intensified defense cooperation. Finland's foreign minister says it's meant to give a legal framework for the U.S. to conduct troop exercises and store military equipment in Finland. It comes after Russia's foreign minister warned that his country cannot ignore a buildup of NATO military power on its doorstep.
 
Here is how the Finnish foreign minister responded to that, speaking with our Isa Soares.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELINA VALTONEN, FINNISH FOREIGN AFFAIRS MINISTER: We have never posed a threat towards Russia and will not do so as a NATO member either. NATO is an alliance for defense, and obviously, it's not threatening Russia or anybody else either. And we made the decision together with Sweden to join the alliance because we were worried about the unpredictable and aggressive behavior of Russia.
 <br>[02:20:03]
 
ISA SOARES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: Speaking of aggressive, there seems to be more threats, at least, coming from Putin this week. President Putin, saying that -- this week that your country was going to have -- I'm going to quoting him, "going to have problems, because it joined NATO."
 
Have you seen any retaliation, any moves by Russia following on from your agreement with United States?
 
VALTONEN: We have seen several acts of harassment by Russia, and of course, we don't know what the motivation is behind these acts.
 
So, we have seen an increased amount of cyberattacks, and now, also, in recent weeks, Russia has been mobilizing third country citizens towards that border to seek asylum. And this is a form of hybrid operation, which we can't tolerate. We were forced to close our entire eastern border towards Russia.
 
Because obviously, it not only poses a national threat to Finland, but also towards the European Union and NATO, since we are protecting the E.U. and NATO border here as well.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Finland's foreign minister also says her country will continue to help Ukraine in its fight against Russia. Saying, Ukraine is fighting for sovereignty and territorial integrity, and for the Western way of life.
 
Still to come, rescuers scrambled to reach survivors as one of the deadliest earthquakes in years hits Northwest China. We'll go live to Beijing for the latest.
 
Plus, the lava flow is decreasing from that volcano in Iceland. But another potential threat remains. We'll explain.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Rescue workers in China are scrambling in sub-zero temperatures to reach survivors after one of the deadliest earthquakes to hit the country in nearly a decade.
 
State media says at least 131 people have been killed and hundreds injured. Tens of thousands of people had to be evacuated and others spent the night in temporary shelters.
 
For more, we want to go to Steven Jiang, who joins us live from Beijing. So, Steven, what is the latest from the site of that deadly earthquake?
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN INTERNATIONAL BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF: Yes, Rosemary. After rescuers digging through the debris for a second night, the authorities have just said their search and rescue effort is "now basically over".
 
Now, as you mentioned, the casualty figures actually have been revised slightly upward since we spoke yesterday, including the death toll. But the relatively known low number is that perhaps a reflection of the location of the quake zone as well.
 
It's mostly rural, often mountainous, but sparsely populated, even though the epicenter is only some 100 kilometers away from the provincial capital city of Lanzhou.
 
But still, there may be some small-scale operations ongoing according to state media, focused on some of the more remote villages not only hit by the quake, but also affected by subsequent mudslides.
 <br>[02:25:08]
 
Because officially, there are still over a dozen people missing.
 
But authorities do emphasize their focus is now shifting to a post disaster relief, including treating the injured. There are nearly a thousand people injured in this earthquake, but also resettling the tens of thousands of people displaced by the -- by this powerful quake with their homes and farms destroyed or severely damaged.
 
And now, that's no easy task during the best of time. But especially considering the very harsh winter conditions overnight, temperatures in some of the areas are reaching as low as minus 20 degrees Celsius. So, that obviously impacting the speed of a lot of their efforts. Not to mention, it may take some convincing for some of these people to actually get resettled, because most of them are very poor farmers.
 
So, they have been telling state media, they are not only concerned about their own safety and health, but also the fate of their crops and livestock.
 
But overall, the authorities are saying they have restored electricity, communication signals, as well as show road access to most parts of this region hit by that very powerful earthquake late Monday night. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH: Yes. Thanks to Steven Jiang for bringing us up to date on that story. Appreciate it.
 
Meteorologists say lava flow from the volcano in Iceland is decreasing, now, down to about one-quarter of Monday's levels.
 
But gas pollution remains a potential threat to the capital, Reykjavik and surrounding areas. A power company is increasing its alert to emergency level and building defenses against the lava at nearby power masts.
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen is on the scene.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The Arctic night illuminated as the Earth breaks apart from the fissure burst its molten core. Weeks of earthquakes led to this display of our planet's fire and force.
 
It's never possible to say exactly when or if a volcano like this one near the town of Grindavik will erupt. Officials took no chances though, evacuating the population after weeks of tremors.
 
Thousands of shakes were felt in November, and all knew what they could bring. Thankfully, none were in Grindavik town, when the volcano, around two miles away, finally did erupt.
 
This crack in the surface of our world close to four kilometers or more than two miles long spewing lava.
 
PLEITGEN: This is as close as the authorities are going to lead us to the volcanic eruption in the south west of Iceland. It's a so-called fissure eruption. That means an eruption along a crack that can be several miles long rather than on a volcanic cone.
 
Now, one of the good things about these eruptions is that actually usually they don't spew ash into the atmosphere very high, which can and has in the past disrupt air travel internationally. Of course, in a place like Iceland that can have massive effect.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Previous eruptions in Iceland have lasted weeks or even months. In the town of Grindavik, the earthquake damage is clear, the lava may follow.
 
HALLGRIMUR INDRIDASON, JOURNALIST: If this activity goes on, then, the big question is, will Grindavik be inhabitable in the long run?
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Whether people can ever move back here depends on a new set of geological circumstances being created right now.
 
Fred Pleitgen, CNN, near Grindavik, Iceland.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And we're back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:31:20] CHURCH: We are continuing to follow developments out of Israel, where we have learned officials are proposing a new deal to pause the fighting in Gaza, in exchange for the release of more hostages held by Hamas. CNN Political and Foreign Policy Analyst Barak Ravid reported that Israel has proposed a one-week pause in exchange for 40 hostages. That word (ph) as the militant group Palestinian Islamic Jihad releases a video of two Israeli hostages. The footage shows the two men speaking in front of a camera. We have decided not to air it because they are likely speaking under duress. In that video, they asked the Israeli government to do, "everything necessary to secure their release."
 
Well, you may have seen that horrific video of 19-year-old Israeli Naama Levy dragged by her hair into the back of a jeep at gunpoint on October 7th. It shows the moments after Hamas terrorists abducted her, her bloody pants suggest she may have been the victim of a violent sexual assault. CNN's Bianna Golodryga spoke with her mother, who says time is running out.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AYELET LEVY SHACHAR, DAUGHTER HELD HOSTAGE IN GAZA: My voice may be soft when I speak right now, but the scream is inside me. And I don't hear the voices of the world loud enough responding to the scream. My daughter has been kidnapped by Hamas. Can you even begin to imagine that?
 
BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN ANCHOR AND SENIOR GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST (voice- over): It's one of the most recognizable images from the horrors of October 7th. 19-year-old Naama Levy dragged from the back of a jeep at gunpoint by Hamas terrorists. Her pants visibly bloodied, her ankles cut.
 
SHACHAR: For her, time is running out. Every day is harder because she's more vulnerable to whatever is happening there and to what's inflicted on her.
 
GOLODRYGA (voice-over): The thought of what else could be inflicted on her daughter has led Dr. Ayelet Levy Shachar to travel to New York. She's hoping to put more pressure on women's rights organizations like U.N. Women, who waited nearly two months to condemn the sexual violence committed by Hamas, despite the mounting evidence.
 
GOLODRYGA: Do you feel let down by these organizations? Not only their moral lapse in not speaking out, do you think that by waiting so long, they endangered Naama's life even more?
 
SHACHAR: It wasn't timely, it wasn't enough. And that did put her -- it does put her in more danger because time is passing by and she's not out. And then I want to just stay home and by the door, and by the phone, and wait for that call and open the door and go out and get her. That's all I want. I don't want to travel anywhere. But I'm doing it because I think this is -- I think the United States has the most power here. And I want to influence whoever I can.
 
GOLODRYGA (voice-over): Like many other families of hostages, Levy Shachar is also disappointed in what they view as an ineffective role played by the International Committee for the Red Cross. While acknowledging the organization's principle of impartiality, families believe more aggressive statements like this one from the ICRC President last week, demanding access and the release of hostages could've put more pressure on Hamas.
 
SHACHAR: I've met with the Red Cross and the Red Cross president. I do understand there is a complexity in how they work and how they achieve their mission. They say they don't have the cooperation on the other side by the Hamas, by the ones who kidnapped.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
SHACHAR: So maybe someone can, maybe the U.N. should come out and say ICRC cannot do their assignment and that...
 
GOLODRYGA: Why do you think they're not doing that?
 
SHACHAR: Good question. Why are they not doing that?
 
GOLODRYGA (voice-over): A day before her trip to New York came the shocking news from the IDF. Its soldiers had mistakenly killed three hostages who had escaped or been abandoned by their captors.
 
SHACHAR: I was shocked. The fear that I feel all the time just got worse at that point. And when I heard this, it broke my heart. I know the parents of those -- at least some of those hostages that were killed. It's horrible -- it's horrible tragedy.
 
GOLODRYGA: Of course, everyone can recognize the video -- the horrific video of Naama on October 7th. I know for you, it's really important for that video to be shown. Can you explain why?
 
SHACHAR: For me, it's of course beyond upsetting and I can't even watch it in continuity. But I think it's so important for the world to see this is what happened to my daughter. It is a short film that is totally does not represent anything about her, except the cruelty of those moments, the moment where our lives just stopped and froze, and it's been October 7th ever since.
 
GOLODRYGA (voice-over): Levy Shachar wants the world to know who her daughter really is, a young, determined, fun loving girl who sought peace with her Palestinian neighbors and loves Pink, specifically the song "Cover Me In Sunshine."
 
SHACHAR: I listen to it all the time. And I sing it to her, I say, I tell her the world's been spinning since the beginning and everything will be all right. And I try to believe that myself.
 
GOLODRYGA (voice-over): Bianna Golodryga, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Football in Turkey resumed Tuesday after last week's shocking attack on a referee, but it did not last long. The Super League Match between Istanbulspor and Trabzonspor was stopped, after Istanbul's Chairman told his player to leave the pitch when the team was denied a penalty. Some players seemed reluctant to do so. One could be seen kneeling and pleading with the chairman to reconsider, but to no avail.
 
Trabzonspor on war was leading 2-to-1 when the match was suspended. The Turkish Football Federation will have to decide if and when the match will resume. The Turkish Football Federation has already imposed a permanent ban on Faruk Koca after the Club President punched a referee in the face last week. Our Scott McLean attended one match in Istanbul on Tuesday and has this report.
 <br>[02:40:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: In this match, Basaksehir won 3-to-1 against Sivasspor but the focus for many in football was not on this highly entertaining match, but on the officials. This was the first game back since professional football was suspended in Turkey last week after a club president punched a referee in the phase. That incident has prompted a lot of soul searching in this country.
 
The aggressor was given a lifetime ban from football. He is also facing criminal charges and possible jail time. Turkish football has for years been trying to crack down on bad fan behavior. But now, plenty say that crackdown needs to also expand to players, coaches, and even team presidents. In this match, ironically, the home team manager was not on the touchline. He was suspended after receiving four yellow cards in prior matches, in part for bad behavior toward the referee.
 
Referees were not an insignificant part of this match either. There were two penalties given and a goal called offside was later ruled onside by VAR. After the match, the losing manager had plenty of criticism for the referees. I asked him whether Turkish football culture has a problem when it comes to respect for officials.
 
SERVET CETIN, SIVASSPOR COACH (through translator): We try to approach all referees with respect and love. Sometimes, we get angry but this comes and goes. Today, for example, I hope the referees were correct in their decisions because otherwise they will get the reaction from Sivasspor fans. If this accumulates, this turns into anger.
 
MCLEAN: I also spoke with the Polish Basaksehir player who scored two goals in this match. He said the officiating in this one could've been better. I also asked whether he thinks major changes are needed to prevent violence from happening again.
 
KRZYSZTOF PIATEK, FOOTBALLER: I don't think so. I think we are like humans, football is only emotion. We need to keep calm sometimes, and I think this cannot happen again.
 
MCLEAN: The Turkish Football Federation has promised tougher penalties for those who abuse referees. One former Turkish professional referee told me that this is a critical moment for football in this country, and that the decisions made by the Football Federation, expected next month, will ultimately determine whether any changes will actually be lasting.
 
Scott McLean, CNN, Istanbul.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And thanks for joining us this hour. I am Rosemary Church. "World Sport" is up next and Max Foster will be live from London with more "CNN Newsroom." Have a great day.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)