Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: New York AG's Office Alleges Donald Trump Inflated His New Worth by $2.2 Billion in One Year; McConnell Appears to Freeze Again During News Conference; Idalia Now Lashing Georgia After Slamming Florida Big Bend Region. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired August 30, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: ... both sons and the Trump Organization. CNN's Kara Scannell is following this. $2.2 billion, it's a lot of money, explain the legal ramifications of that.
 
KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Right, so this is the New York Attorney General civil fraud lawsuit where they alleged that Trump had inflated the value of his golf courses, a number of his properties, including Mar-a-Lago, in order to obtain more favorable loan rates and insurance rates from lenders and insurers. So they're laying out some additional details in a court filing today in which they alleged that in 2014, Trump had inflated the value of his net worth by $2.2 billion. 
 
Now they also say that over a 10-year period from 2011 and 2021, that based on their corrections of what they say were inaccurate filings, that that would reduce his Trump's net worth by between 17 and to 39% in each year, or between $812 million to $2.2 billion, depending on the year. They also go on to say that the documents leave no shred of doubt that Trump's statements of financial condition do not even remotely reflect the estimated current value of his assets as they would trade between well informed market participants. 
 
I mean, a big question has been how much is Trump really worth? And the AG's office said they did the math and in no year of those 10 years that they're looking at, did they say that Trump's net worth exceeded $2.6 billion. Now for each of those years on those financial statements, Trump said he was worth at least $4 billion. And in two of those years, he claimed he was worth $6.1 billion each year. So that gets to the heart of their lawsuit. 
 
And they made these filings in what is known as a motion for a partial summary judgment where they want the judge to rule on the findings in this case, their allegations based on the document, saying that this is a document case, there's really no need to go to trial here. Now, Trump's team has -- Trump has, of course, denied any wrongdoing, denied that he manipulated his financial statements and his lawyers will make their motions for summary judgment, which should become public as soon as today or in the next couple of days. The judge is not expected to rule on this however, until just before the trial, and that, Jim, is set for October 2nd.
 
SCIUTTO: Kara Scannell, thanks so much.
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: And now to a story that we are following out of Kentucky, where Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell appeared to freeze again while he was speaking with reporters. This happened about a month ago as well. You may remember that he just suddenly stopped speaking during a news conference there on Capitol Hill late last month. CNN's Manu Raju is following this. Manu, tell us what happened.
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, that after that initial freezing episode back in July, the Senate then recess -- went back -- senators went back home, including Senator McConnell. Since then, he has been traveling across the state, giving speeches and events like he did today in Covington, Kentucky, where he spoke to a local Chamber of Commerce. He's talking about a wide range of issues and taking some questions from the crowd. Then afterwards he had a press conference with reporters and at that point he was asked a question about whether he would run for reelection in 2026. And similar to that episode in July, again freeze for about 30 seconds.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY): I'm sorry I had a hard time hearing it. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That's OK. What are your thoughts on running for reelection in 2026?
 
MCCONNELL: What my thoughts about what?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Running for reelection in 2026.
 
MCCONNELL: That's right.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Did you hear the question, Senator? Running for reelection in 2026? All right. I'm sorry, you all, we're going to need a minute. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to head outside, Sir. You want to come with us. 
 
MCCONNELL: OK.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Somebody else have a question, please speak up.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAJU: Now the 81-year-old McConnell has had other health episodes this year, notably in March when he was at a Washington hotel, and then he fell. He hit his head, had a concussion, broke ribs, was hospitalized for some time, had to recover at a rehab facility, came back to the Senate. Since then, there was also been two other falling episodes that we have reported that occurred as well. One in Finland, also another one at Reagan National Airport here in Washington. 
 
And when that episode happened in July, I asked him whether or not this was related at all to that fall that happened in March -- his freezing episode. He said he felt fine and his office at the time said he was light headed and they moved on. 
 
But again, undoubtedly this will raise questions about Senator McConnell's future. He's the longest serving party leader in history. He has indicated he will continue to serve through the rest of this Congress. Uncertain what will happen in the next Congress or if he'll run again in 2026 -- guys.
 <br>[04:35:02]
 
SCIUTTO: Listen, we should acknowledge that's extremely difficult to watch. Difficult to watch, as difficult to watch as the episode in July. Anybody with an elderly relative might have experienced something similar here. As you mentioned, this is not the first time beyond these two incidences of him freezing on camera. There was a fall. There are other instances you have asked his team about. Has the answer been the same throughout? Is there any acknowledgement that this is now -- I suppose you could call a pattern of these events happening? Or do they just say he's tired and try to move on?
 
RAJU: Well, a McConnell aide did tell me this afternoon after this incident that the leader would in fact see a doctor get some, as I said, get for a quote prudential measure, try to see a physician -- consult with a physician. But the same aide said that he, quote, feels fine. 
 
So there is an expectation that sometime today he will get checked out by a doctor. A spokesman also said, leader McConnell felt momentarily lightheaded and paused during his press conference today. And that is a similar explanation as we heard back in July, his office at the time said he was lightheaded. Republicans later told me that the leader indicated that he was dehydrated, and that's what essentially had been that there was a reason for that pause. 
 
So uncertain what the doctor will tell him this afternoon. But again, an unnerving episode as the leader again appearing to freeze in answering questions for reporters. This time in Kentucky -- guys.
 
KEILAR: Certainly is. Manu Raju live for us from the Capitol. Thank you so much for that report. We have much more news ahead here on CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: Today, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis confirmed that the National Guard has been deployed to assist with search and rescue efforts after Hurricane Idalia came through Florida. Of course, it is still going through Georgia onward to South Carolina right now. 
 
Another group that we often see stepping in to help after these major storms is the United Cajun Navy and members of this nonprofit are on site. That's the storm surge they faced north of Tampa earlier today in those pictures that you're seeing there. We're joined now by the vice president and spokesman for the United Cajun Navy, Brian Trascher. Brian, give us a sense of the damage that your teams are seeing.
 
BRIAN TRASCHER, VICE PRESIDENT AND SPOKESMAN, UNITED CAJUN NAVY: So we're seeing some coastal flooding from as far south as Hernando Beach, all the way up until the impact zone. And we're seeing a lot of wind damage and whatnot so far. Fortunately, nothing too catastrophic. We have not been dispatched for any type of water rescues yet. But we do have airboat teams onsite and prepared should that call come. 
 
But you know, fortunately and unfortunately Florida is we have our biggest chapter outside of Louisiana of the United Cajun Navy in Florida because they've been affected so much and we've built up such a good volunteer network over the years.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. Listen, we always love the work you do. It's great to see in situations like this, you get to places that other folks can't get to and you get there quickly. But what you just said there, you have not been called for any water rescues. Is that good news and is that a sign that folks did heed those evacuation orders and get out?
 
TRASCHER: Yes, that could be it. But also too, that the flooding that we're seeing videos of coming back from our team and what we're hearing back on the ground is that it's just not that high. And so the only time there's been any extractions that we've heard of has been when water starts to get into a house and it might be like elderly or somebody in the vulnerable population. But it's mostly been neighbor to neighbor type of movement and evacuation. So that's the best kind because people know each other, they know the area. And when they can handle that themselves, you know, cause things really have to get bad for us to show up.
 
KEILAR: Yes, in Dixie county -- and that is very good news certainly. In Dixie County, we heard that one of the cameras where locals had been monitoring from away from their homes, the damage it actually was over topped at 10 feet. And then of course, they were no longer able to see any of the damage. Are there any areas like that where we don't quite have eyes, where people may actually be cut off? And at this point in time, you don't have residents who are able to get back in to survey the damage.
 
TRASCHER: Yes, so for situations like that we have a drone team and they're on site there. The problem is that the government put a TFR, which is a flight restriction for UAS's and so they haven't been able to fly as close to the area as we as we'd like. You know, they can survey things, but also two of our drones have heavy lift capabilities. They have payload devices on them where we can a lot of times, we can drop like a cell phone or a SAT phone to somebody that may have lost power and their phones out of charge or it got wet and doesn't work anymore. So that they can communicate with officials, let them know what they need, what the situation is. 
 
But yes, the storm surge was a good 9 or 10 feet coming in front of Idalia, but the good part, if you want to call it that, about the way the topography of Florida is and the water goes up and then recedes back out into the ocean. It's not like in Louisiana where you have a lot of below sea level areas where water sits for a while, that causes a lot more problems. [04:45:4]
 
KEILAR: Yes, good to see it head back out there. And we've been hearing that from some of the mayors that we've been talking to. Brian, thank you so much and good luck as you do the work that you do. We appreciate it.
 
TRASCHER: Thanks UnitedCajunNavy.org.
 
SCIUTTO: Hurricane Idalia is now moving through Georgia. Savannah officials say for them, the worst may still be yet to come. We're going to take you there live coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
KEILAR: Hurricane Idalia has killed two people and has forced scores of residents in Florida to deal without power at this point in time, fire teams saving more than 75 people in St. Petersburg area alone, more than 4500 people are in shelters throughout the state. Storm surge records in multiple cities have been broken.
 
In Steinhatchee. Florida, water levels rose up to 9 feet in just two hours. Now, Georgia, facing the brunt of this. Idalia barreling through the Peach state as a category one storm. CNN's Ryan Young is in Savannah, Georgia. And Ryan, we've heard from some communities in Florida that they dodged a bullet, at least from some of the worst expectations. And I wonder what Savannah is experiencing right now.
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Right, we're just kind of waiting right now, Jim. You know, we're just watching and waiting to see what happens. We're starting to get those gusts of winds that kind of push through. There have been some power outages reported throughout this little low coast area. But really the watch is here on the water because what they're worried about is this water right here rising high enough during high tide that affects a lot of the businesses along the riverfront. 
 
One of the impacts that we've seen so far, and we've talked about is, that's the Talmadge bridge right there. They closed it at 2:00 because they were worried about these heavy winds. 
 
And then you think about the impact to businesses, I mean, was going to be a very busy weekend here, a lot of the hotels are packed with tourists because of course is a holiday weekend. And so now they're trying to protect all this riverfront. And you can see the dam that's been put up there. That's an Aqua dam that can stop some of the water coming in. So they're worried tonight with the heavy rain that they were expecting that could impact this. And that's why they've put up these orange barriers that are fortified with wood on the backside to stop that water as it seeps in. So you have, you know, millions of dollars of local businesses here that are concerned about what the next steps would be. 
 
And then you talk about the wind and the fact there's been so much heavy rain in this area, you could have large trees galling down. You talk about those power outages that have been going around the area. So far, they've been able to respond to those. They were thinking about doing a curfew, but it sounds like they're putting that on a pause for a little bit. On top of that, a lot of the flights into the airport have been cancelled. 
 
But if you walk back in this direction -- I just wanna show you this because I think it's -- you can see how they're trying to save these businesses. Look down this way here. This is a whole water dam that's been inflated with water to make sure the water can't break the barrier. It's around 7:00 when we're expecting the heavy rain and wind coming in here. Guys, we'll be watching and waiting.
 
KEILAR: That is quite a contraption. Hopefully, that stands up. Ryan Young, thank you so much.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, it's clever one. Use water to hold back the water. 
 
In Lowndes County, Georgia, which borders Florida, more than half the households there are without power. Emergency officials are directing people to shelter in place. Also -- and this is crucial -- stay off the roads, because flooding is such a danger in the wake of this.
 
KEILAR: Joining us now by phone is Paige Dukes, who is Lowndes County manager. Paige, tell us what you're experiencing right now in your county.
 
PAIGE DUKES, LOWNDES COUNTY MANAGER (via phone): Sure, right now we are moving from the response to the recovery phase. Most of the weather has moved out. Currently 97 percent of our residents are without power, but we have outside crews that are coming in. Chainsaw crews and heavy equipment that's coming in. We've got several 100 areas across the community where we have road, streets and bridges that are blocked. And of course, the power lines complicate that. So our message to our citizens is still please remain in place. Most of our businesses, schools, local governments will have their offices closed tomorrow as well, since the power is out and it's still not safe for our citizens to move about our community. 
 
We have a tremendous team of first responders that have spent the last three days leading up to the storms in our Emergency Operations Center. Our community was very prepared. We have seen severe weather before, but certainly nothing of this magnitude in a very, very long time. So we are, we are glad to be moving into the recovery phase and we're just asking our residents here to be patient with us as we coordinate the cleanup of Lowndes County.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes, it makes sense. Listen, power lines go down. They're dangerous. You don't want to be moving around. But 97 percent of your residents without power. That sounds like it's going to take a lot of work to restore power if those if those trees took down those lines.
 
DUKES: It is and not only do we have power lines down, but what's most concerning right now is a large part of our power infrastructure is out. So that means we have substations out, we have transformers that are out. And it's going to take some time for the power crews to be able to get to those locations and make sure that they've got the equipment in the parts that they need to be able to repair or replace that infrastructure. So it's not going to be as simple a clean up as maybe (INAUDIBLE).
 
KEILAR: I think we're having some technical difficulties, unfortunately, with Paige there, it sure does.
 
SCIUTTO: Well, as happens in a storm, sometimes you lose a signal. Paige Dukes from Lowndes County, 97 percent of people there without power and that that just shows you how what kind of damage a storm like this can leave behind. 
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
KEILAR: Yes, and the governor said be ready to lose your power and that's what he meant right there. 
 
For more information about how you can help Hurricane Idalia relief efforts, go to cnn.com/impact. Or you can text hurricane to 707070 to donate.
 
SCIUTTO: Do stay with CNN for all the breaking news on Hurricane Idalia. "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper will start right after a short break.
 
END