Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Military to Train Ukrainians in U.S.; Fisher-Price Issues Recall Reminder; Seattle Schools Sue Big Tech; Hamlin's Recovery Beating Expectations; Georgia Crushes TCU. Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired January 10, 2023 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:57] 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN ANCHOR: This just into CNN. Sources telling CNN that the U.S. military will soon train Ukrainians on the patriot missile systems here in the U.S. 
 
ERIC HILL, CNN ANCHOR: Our Oren Liebermann standing by at the Pentagon with more on this. 
 
So, Oren, what more do we know about those stateside trainings? 
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Erica and Jim, the training will take place at Fort Sill, which is where the U.S. conducts its own training on patriot missiles. This is near Lawton, Oklahoma. So, the Ukrainians will come there and begin training on the patriot missile systems according to two U.S. officials familiar with the matter. That training could begin as soon as next week. So, you see the urgency in getting them trained up on this complex aerial defense system as quickly as possible. It was only announced a few weeks ago at this point. So, bringing them in and getting that training going allows them to get it on to the battlefield as quickly as possible. 
 
Crucially, there is no timeline for how long this takes. Defense officials said last week it will take several months. The Pentagon is working on accelerating training on patriot missiles in any way it can to shorten that timeline and make them get out there faster. But, first, there is no definite answer on how much it can shorten the training on what is a complex, long-range, aerial defense system. But, second, they're not going to telegraph to the Russians when this system might be ready and in theater. 
 
Crucially, though, as we've heard from two U.S. officials, training on the patriot missile system could begin as soon as next week on the complex system. This will take time, Erica and Jim, but crucially the process is about to start. 
 
HILL: All right, getting things started. That is the key. 
 
Oren Liebermann, really appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
SCIUTTO: All right, also new this morning, two senior U.S. officials tell me that there has been a substantive -- quote, substantive change in the type and extent of weaponry the U.S. and its allies are providing to Ukraine. Sources tell me the latest aid package includes weapons designed to give them more offensive capability, including taking back territory from Russia, and reflects a belief that Kyiv sees a window to regain that territory before Russia is able to regroup. 
 
HILL: U.S. and Ukrainian officials also say Russian artillery fire is dramatically down, nearly 75 percent in some places, in the latest sign of struggles for Moscow. 
 
SCIUTTO: Here with me now to discuss the importance of all this, retired Marine Colonel Mark Cancian. He's a senior adviser for the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
 
Colonel, good to have you on this morning. 
 
COL. MARK CANCIAN (RET.), SENIOR ADVISER CSIS INTERNATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAM: Thanks for having me on the show. 
 
SCIUTTO: So, first of all, I want to get to some of these changes in weapons that the U.S. has been providing -- the U.S. and its allies have been providing Ukraine. Top of the list most recently, Bradley fighting vehicles, which also have an anti-tank capability, as well as more capable missile and rocket systems. 
 
The deputy assistant defense secretary, Laura Cooper, said on Friday that they're positioning Ukraine to be able to move forward and retake territory. 
 
Is this meant to give them more of an offensive rather than defensive capability? 
 
CANCIAN: Well, what you're seeing is support across the board. They're - we are sending patriot, which, of course, is an air defense weapon, and it will help protect Ukrainian cities from Russian missiles.
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
CANCIAN: You're also seeing these armored vehicles, not only from the United States but also NATO allies, Bradley's, of course, wide variety of others, though, the M-113s, MRAPs, which will help provide offensive capability, and also a lot of artillery support. Additional artillery systems, the M-109, more 105, more ammunition, more kinds of rounds. So, a wide variety of support that will not only enhance their offensive capabilities but also help their defense. 
 
SCIUTTO: Tell us about the timing here in the war as we near the one- year anniversary of the invasion here. I'm told that these weapons are in part designed to fit the battlefield in the east, more wide-open territory, tank battles, artillery battles, et cetera, but also that there's some concern Russia will at least attempt to regroup and Ukraine needs these weapons now in effect to fight back. Is this a crucial moment in the war? 
 
CANCIAN: Well, every moment in the war has been crucial in its own way. 
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
This is a new challenge, that is that Ukraine now is gaining strength and will be trying to reconquer territory. The initiative is clearly on their side. On the other hand, the Russians have had this (INAUDIBLE), which was chaotic but has produced more soldiers on the front line. 
 
I think what you're seeing in the U.S. aid package is a recognition that this is going to be a long war. We're providing equipment that's going to take many months to come online, to get the Ukrainians trained up on it, but we're willing to invest that amount of time because, unfortunately, it looks like this war is going to go on for quite a while. 
 
SCIUTTO: Do you sense, for instance, in this new CNN reporting about Russia possibly running out of some artillery, ammunition, et cetera, because their strikes have decreased in frequency in recent days and weeks, do you see Russia as weaker today, right? I mean is there an opportunity here or have we just entered a war of attrition in the east, right, which is just, as you said, going to be long and brutal? 
 
CANCIAN: Well, it - unfortunately, it is going to be a long and brutal attrition fight in the east. Now, the fact that the Russians are firing less artillery is a good sign. It means that they have burned through a lot of their stocks. They are getting some ammunition apparently from like the North Koreans and they're probably refurbishing some of their older ammunition, but they're not firing at the same rate that they were before. The Russians aren't going to run out of artillery ammunition. They're not going to stop shooting. But they're going to shoot less. That means they can shoot at fewer targets. That's good for the Ukrainians. 
 
On the other hand, as we noted, the Russians have more troops on the front line. Their mobilization has produced more personnel. That's strengthening their position. I wouldn't be surprised if the Russians also tried to go over the offensive, particularly in the Donbas area. 
 
SCIUTTO: Final question, if I can, on China. The U.S. conducted a war game that just - CSIS, I should say, conducted a war game that just showed how potentially devastating a conflict over Taiwan would be for China, for the U.S., for Japan. Does that cause pause in the minds of, well, President Xi Jinping, about potentially launching an invasion? 
 
CANCIAN: Well, we certainly hope so. I mean one of the things that we hope is that these kinds of war games will show everyone how destructive a war could be and, therefore, adds to deterrents and makes conflict less likely. We also hope that this will show the United States what it can do and its allies, like Taiwan, to strengthen deterrents, to make wars even less likely and if a war were to occur to make it shorter and bring it to an end more quickly. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes. I mean you look at that list there of the potential costs. I mean dozens of ships, thousands of troops on all sides, just a devastating prospect. Colonel Mark Cancian, thanks so much. 
 
CANCIAN: Thanks for having me on the show. 
 
HILL: Still to come, Fisher-Price issuing an urgent recall reminder for parents after at least 100 infant deaths have now been connected to their Rock 'n Play Sleepers. What you need to know. Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:42:28]
 
HILL: Fisher-Price issuing an urgent recall reminder to parents. This is about a sleeper that they had on the market. This is a quote, too, from the Consumer Products Safety Commission here, noting babies continue to die. 
 
SCIUTTO: Boy, that's alarming words for any parent to hear. It is the Rock 'n Play Sleeper, which was initially recalled in 2019. The product has now been connected to at least 100 infant deaths reported. 
 
CNN health reporter Jacqueline Howard joins me now. 
 
Jacqueline, how are these sleepers dangerous exactly and do we know how many are out there? 
 
JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: We do, Jim. So, I will say that what's been happening, we know that deaths are due to infants rolling over on to their sides or on to their stomachs while in the sleepers unrestrained. 
 
And here's a timeline of what's been happening. 
 
The original recall from Fisher-Price came in 2019. On April 12, 2019. It was re-announced just yesterday. And in the reannouncement it was noted that there have been about eight additional deaths reported since 2019. So, those deaths happened after the original recall. 
 
And you asked about the number, Jim. In total this recall impacts about 4.7 million sleepers out there. In total, there have been approximately 100 deaths reported in connection to the Rock 'n Play Sleepers. 
 
So, the takeaway message here for parents out there who might have Rock 'n Play Sleepers, stop using them immediately. You can contact Fisher-Price to get a refund or a voucher. 
 
And then there's also a message for store owners. It's illegal to sell or distribute these Rock 'n Play Sleepers. So, this is an urgent reannouncement, really, for consumers and store owners out there right now, Jim and Erica. 
 
HILL: Yes, such an important reminder of this recall. 
 
HOWARD: Yes.
 
HILL: Jacqueline, really appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
The largest school district in the state of Washington is going after some of the world's largest tech companies. Seattle Public Schools filing a lawsuit against the parent companies of social media platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Snapchat and YouTube, alleging those platforms have a negative impact on students' mental health, claiming, too, it has hurt the ability of the schools to fulfill their educational mission. 
 
Joining me now is CNN's Donie O'Sullivan. 
 
So, they're actually -- they say they - that they're violating a public nuisance law in the state of Washington. The school district, the largest in the state, is actually asking for damages here from these companies. How are the companies responding? 
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
DONIE O'SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, the companies are responding, as you might expect. They're saying, oh, we don't have that much of a problem here. 
 
Look, we saw this over the past few years, particularly with that Facebook whistleblower about 18 months ago, when she came out and she showed that Facebook, Instagram had done research into the damage their products were doing to children. 
 
I just want to show you some of the statistics. Teenagers' use of social media. The percentage of teens who are using these apps almost constantly, almost -- almost a fifth of teens using YouTube almost constantly, 16 percent using TikTok almost constantly. It's very possible that those numbers are actually a lot higher than that. 
 
HILL: I would -- as the parent of teenagers, I would say they probably are higher. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Also just to show you the statistics on social media usage among children, right, what is interesting there is you see 32 percent kids between the ages of seven and nine are using these social media platforms, 38 percent eight to 12. Mostly of these social media platforms claim that if you're under 13, you're not allowed to set up an account. 
 
HILL: But, listen, there are plenty of ways to get around that, even when you have limits.
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yes. Of course.
 
HILL: I will say, as a parent, when you have limits on your kids' phones, they can figure out how to get around it. 
 
What really struck me was specifically the 13 to 17-year-olds, because we're really looking at high school. If people don't have high schoolers, I think a lot of people may not realize, kids mostly have their phones in schools. And part of that is because they have apps that they use for schoolwork. So, they're also on these messaging apps all the time.
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yes.
 
HILL: And they're spending hours on these apps. And that's what the issue is with the school district, right? They're saying that all this time online is furthering mental health issues and we don't have the staff to deal with it. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yes. And not only the staff. I mean I think this is such a relatively new phenomena, right?
 
HILL: Yes.
 
O'SULLIVAN: The fact that we're all glued to our phones. It's only over the past decade or so. I mean I certainly know that I don't always feel fantastic when I find myself doing -- scrolling on Instagram, seeing how fantastic a time everybody else is having. So, who only knows what impact that is going to have on teenagers and children. 
 
And what we have heard from psychologists and other experts down through the years is, you know, this is going to take years or generations to really figure out actually what are the effects of this here. 
 
HILL: Right. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: So, what I think this lawsuit, you know, does is it sort of puts down a marker and says, look, we want to put this into the public discussion. 
 
HILL: Yes. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Who knows, they might get some interesting stuff through the legal discovery process as well. 
 
HILL: It's such a great point, as our colleagues Audie Cornish said earlier, look, the benefit to lawsuits sometimes is you get information. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Yes. 
 
HILL: And to your point, I think that may be exactly what happens. But certainly something for us all to think about because there is no handbook for adults or for the kids. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Certainly not. 
 
HILL: Donie, appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
O'SULLIVAN: Thanks, Erica.
 
SCIUTTO: All right, still ahead, we are live to Georgia where they're celebrating a second straight college football championship. And, boy, it was a big win. Whether or not the word dynasty is too soon, we're going to have a look, next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:51:52]
 
HILL: How about a little good news on your Tuesday morning. That's what we want to give you now.
 
Damar Hamlin has been transferred to a Buffalo hospital. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
HILL: He's recovering faster than doctors expected. 
 
SCIUTTO:  Yes, faster than anyone really. The Bills star has been tweeting appreciation for all the support he's received. But his doctors say it's too soon to talk about a return to football. 
 
CNN sports anchor Coy Wire joins us now. 
 
And, Coy, I mean even to raise that question, his potential return to football, given where we were just a few days ago, is just -- is remarkable. 
 
Give us the latest on where things stand regarding his recovery? 
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Just have some huge, wonderful news coming to us and I expect it to come officially within the coming hours. I just spoke with Michael Hughes, senior vice president and chief administrative officer of Kaleida Health, who tell me doctors are finishing tests right now here at Buffalo General to determine whether there were any pre-existing conditions that caused Damar's cardiac arrest, Jim and Erica, and there is optimism that that was not the case. Rather the collision was the cause. Mr. Hughes tells me that the hospital plans to release a written health update within one to two hours. And we may even see a photo at some point today of Damar with his new friends here at Buffalo General, who he has already said have made him feel at home. 
 
There is also optimism that Hamlin will be healthy enough to be released from Buffalo General within 24 to 48 hours. And even more good news, Mr. Hughes tells us that Hamlin's parents flew home to Pittsburgh after leaving Cincinnati where they were with their son. But they then flew to Buffalo. And they are currently en route from Bills facilities here in Buffalo. They will arrive at Buffalo General here and be reunited with their son any moment. 
 
SCIUTTO: Wow. 
 
HILL: I mean this is - this is what we all need on a Tuesday morning. 
 
Coy Wire, appreciate it, especially that update that you just got. Thanks for bringing it to us. 
 
Well, they've done it again. And let me tell you, speaking of good news, if our Atlanta teams had their way, this would have been our lead, people. SCIUTTO: Yes. Yes.
 
HILL: This is a big, big deal. 
 
SCIUTTO: They're still fighting, actually. Yes.
 
HILL: Who knows what's going to happen at 10:00.
 
The Georgia Bulldogs celebrating their second straight national championship. That's after crushing Texas Christian University last night. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: With the in play action, Bennett looks down the middle. McConkey's wide open. Touchdown, Dawgs! 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) McConkey healthy and (INAUDIBLE) or each series -
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: There were lots of touchdowns. It was a big win, 65-7. It means Georgia, among other things, finishes the season at a perfect 15-0. 
 
CNN sports anchor Andy Scholes joins us now. 
 
I mean, two in a row. It's been a while since - you go back about 10- years to Alabama. 
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yes.
 
SCIUTTO: Last one to do that. I mean are we talking a dynasty here? I mean the thing -- their quarterback is graduating, but what do we think. 
 
SCHOLES: He is, Jim. But, guys - I mean, guys, I mean Georgia is stock full of four and five-star, you know, talent on their team. So, you know, this is definitely not the last we've seen of them. They're the first team ever in the playoff era to win back-to-back champions. And as you just mentioned, Jim, first to do it in college football since Alabama went two straight titles since 2012. 
 <br>[09:55:04]
 
And, like I mentioned, what Kirby Smart's building there in Georgia, so impressive. Something certainly special. 
 
Now TCU scored to make it 10-7 last night. But from that point on, I mean it was just all Dawgs. They scored 55 straight points. Quarterback Stetson Bennett, he threw for four touchdowns, he ran for two more. And, really this was a storybook ending to his career. So, after being a walk-on at Georgia, Stetson, he left to go to Jones County Junior College so that he could actually play. But after one year, he returned to Georgia, this time on scholarship, to be the third string quarterback. And last year he won the job and the rest is history now, right. He led Georgia to back-to-back titles. 
 
Coach Kirby Smart calling Bennett the greatest dawg of all time. He paused game in the fourth quarter so Bennett could get a standing ovation as he came out of the game. Georgia winning by the biggest margin in playoff history last night, 65-7. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STETSON BENNETT, GEORGIA QUARTERBACK: That was special. That was -- I'll remember that for the rest of my life. 
 
He just told me he loved me and -- just the journey that we've been through together, you know, and that dude right there, Rich, golly, I mean just seeing everybody who was here from when I go here, and they're still here, and we're back-to-back -- I don't know, it just - 
 
KIRBY SMART, GEORGIA HEAD COACH: We wanted our kids to play without fear. And all year I told them, I said, we ain't getting hunted, guys. We're doing the hunting. And hunting season's almost over. We only got one more chance to hunt. And we hunted tonight. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: Yes, and, guys, pretty cool. You know, Georgia's stocked full of talent, as I mentioned. They've got all kinds of four-star, five- star players. But it was a guy who was a walk-on originally, Stetson Bennett, is the guy who led them to two straight national championships. 
 
SCIUTTO: Yes.
 
HILL: Quite a night. Go Dawgs. 
 
Andy Scholes, thank you. 
 
SCHOLES: All right.
 
HILL: All right, still to come here, a month's worth of rain in just 24 hours. The dangers facing much of California this morning. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)