Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: At Least Seven Injured In Mass Shooting At Boston Parade; Thousands Gather For 60th Anniversary Of Martin Luther King Speech; Boston Mayor, Police Give Update On Parade Shooting; Trump Pushes For Delay Amid Requests For Speedy Trial; Biden Remains Silent On Trump's Mounting Legal Problems; Maui PD Chief: Death Toll Remains At 115 But Authorities Are Still Making Recoveries; Investigators Recover Prigozhin Plane's Flight Recorders. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired August 26, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:01:09]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. This "BREAKING NEWS" out of Boston, where police say, at least, seven people have been injured in a mass shooting during a parade at the city's Caribbean festival.
 
Let's get straight to CNN's Polo Sandoval.
 
Polo, we're also waiting for a press conference from the city's mayor and police commissioner at any moment now. But what can you tell us thus far?
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It is obviously a fluid situation. So, it's understandable that this press conference that was expected to begin about 15 minutes ago still has not started yet. But we are expecting in the next -- in the next minutes, potentially, to hear from Boston officials, to learn a little bit more about what happened early this morning during the 7:00 a.m. hour in Boston, Dorchester neighborhood.
 
Here is what police have officially confirmed thus far. At least seven people were injured after shots rang out there in Dorchester. All of them expected to survive. So, these are non-life-threatening injuries, and this took place during Boston's Caribbean carnival or festival, if you will. Usually features at least two parades, one of which was getting ready to get started. And then, you see what actually took place there, with just a few people that were left behind there at the scene.
 
And quite the chaotic scene that actually played out, when you look at some of these pictures from one of our affiliates coming in.
 
And as we, again, wait to hear more from officials about what potentially could have led to this series of shots being fired. What prompted it. When you look back at the history, we do know that there have been other incidents related in some way, shape, or form to this festival. Again, this usually draws in massive crowds, families coming together. In fact, this year, celebrating its 50th anniversary. However, we've also seen some violence coming out of that, either close to the parade route there, or at the location itself, and in some cases even resulted in the deaths of individuals in year's past.
 
So, we'll actually try to find out exactly what played out here. And then, of course, if any of the rest of the day's festivities were potentially affected.
 
Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Polo Sandoval, thank you so much.
 
And again, we are awaiting a press conference out of Boston. When that happens, we'll take it.
 
Meantime, let's talk to a former Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis. He is joining us now from Portland, Oregon.
 
Good to see you, Commissioner. So, let me get your reaction to this shooting. 7:00 a.m. in Boston at the start of this festival?
 
ED DAVIS, FORMER BOSTON POLICE COMMISSIONER: Yes, it's very early to have something like this happen. But unfortunately, it's not unusual for the J'ouvert parade. This is really a weekend of celebration that occurs with people coming in from all over the country to join us for a really great parade and an exciting day.
 
But for some reason, late at night, the night before the parade, and early in the morning, have been the times when we kind of expect that there will be some violence because it's been happening year after year for so many years.
 
WHITFIELD: I mean, that's so sad to hear that you would say and the history would say that this is not unusual for there to be a shooting or for there to be this kind of, you know, investigation now underway.
 
So, if there is some history as you're underscoring to events in the past, at this festival, then, what should be, you know, modified? What changes have been put into place to try to get ahead of this pattern of problems?
 
DAVIS: Right, we've done a number of things over the years. And Commissioner Cox and Mayor Wu were very focused on this event and limiting any kind of violent behavior.
 
Having seven people shot is certainly an outlier. Thankfully, no one was killed. But in the past, we've worked with the carnival organization, the committee. We've worked with Shirley Shillingford, who's the director there.
 <br>[12:05:01]
 
They been very cooperative and working with us. And we've done, you know, we've increased staffing of police, we've increased police visibility. We've done some unique things like using video cameras to document the people who are in the -- in the parade, and the 1,000s of people who are watching, because we found that there are some gang members who use the anonymity of the parade to stay in the neighborhood.
 
So, it's a difficult problem. Totally support this event and, and also new ideas to try to limit the violence that historically has occurred.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, in the meantime, is it your feeling those video cameras that you mentioned that have been introduced to the area will probably help investigators zero in on some suspects?
 
DAVIS: Right. And they made a number of arrests here and confiscated a number of guns. So, they were right on the spot.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes.
 
DAVIS: This is a very short parade less than a mile from around the park, around the corner to Franklin Park. So, it is, you know, it's a small group, but there are -- that's a small location, but 1000s and 1000s of people that has to be policed properly.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Former Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis, thank you so much.
 
DAVIS: Thank you, Fredricka.
 
All right. Let's turn now to the Capitol where 1000s are gathering on the National Mall to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the historic march on Washington.
 
Live pictures now from the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial. Organizers describe today's event not as a commemoration, but a continuation of the dream, Dr. King outlined at the Lincoln Memorial, August 28th, 1963.
 
CNN national correspondent Jason Carroll, joins me live now from the National Mall. Pretty significant turnout and a great diverse litany of speakers that are right behind you. What's happening?
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Right. And Fredricka, we've already heard from a real spectrum of the civil rights community, all ethnicities, races, all corners of the social organization community. And it's really been a recurring theme over and over that this is a fight. It was a fight 60 years ago, and it's a fight that continues to this day.
 
And in terms of this day and age, what you keep hearing over and over again, is those who are here saying that there is this overwhelming feeling that there is a movement in the country to try to turn the clock back.
 
Not just when it comes to civil rights, but even when it comes to U.S. history, trying to erase aspects of U.S. history that deal with the African Americans. I want you to listen to one of those people who was scheduled to speak up there on the stage. In just a few minutes. She is the president and CEO of the National Council of Negro Women. She spoke to us, Fredricka, about her feelings about today, and what she intends to tell the crowd.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHAVON ARLINE-BRADLEY, PRESIDENT, NATIONAL COUNCIL OF NEGRO WOMEN: 60 years later, we're still fighting for voting rights. We're still fighting on issues around poverty, health care. And here is the key. We're also looking to really have overall judicial justice reform. Those issues are still on the table 60 years later.
 
We're also going to talk about women pushing the ballot box, women actually running for office. And making sure in 2024, we're getting out the vote.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CARROLL: King's son, Martin Luther King III is expected to attend here later on.
 
Again, some of the themes that will be addressed: voting rights, economic, equality, educational rights. In addition to that, after the speakers conclude, Fredricka, they are scheduled to do a march over to the King Memorial. That's expected to happen at about 1:00 today.
 
But again, if you had to sum up the feelings of many of those who came out here, and Fredricka, we've spoken to people from all over the country; from Ohio, from Arizona, from New York. Over and over again, I keep hearing that the fight continues. Fredricka?
 
WHITFIELD: Just as 60 years ago, people have come from far and wide whether it be by bus, their cars, planes, and everything. All right. Thank you so much, Jason Carroll.
 
All right. Still ahead. One of Donald Trump's co-defendants remains behind bars in Georgia today. What's next for the former president and the 18 others charged in Fulton County election interference case?
 
Plus, authorities in Maui say they are still making recoveries as they scour the wildfire devastation. And there are a flurry of lawsuits over who is to blame for the fires. Details, straight ahead.
 <br>[12:09:41]
 
And we're continuing to follow new details out of Boston, we are waiting for an update on the parade shooting from officials at any moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Just moments ago, we heard from the Boston Police Commissioner Michael Cox, giving an update on the shooting this morning at a Caribbean Festival parade. Seven injured. Listen in. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MICHAEL COX, COMMISSIONER, BOSTON POLICE DEPARTMENT: -- this morning, officers responded to multiple gunshots in the area around 10 Talbot Avenue where there were seven people who received gunshots, currently all non-life-threatening. As a result of officers responding very quickly to the scene, they were able to run towards not only the gunfire, but actually apply tourniquets, and help to all the -- all the victims of the gunshots and officer also arrest two suspects involved. We recovered multiple weapons as a result of this.
 
I want to say that the incident that happened early here today, we need the public's help and support, again, this early investigation going on and we asked for the public support. If anyone has any video evidence and or -- you know, evidence from their phone, or just witnessed the events, we ask them to call Area B-3 detectives.
 <br>[12:15:08]
 
Or, if you want to remain anonymous, call 1-800-494 TIPS. That's one 1-800-494 TIPS. As well as you can call the Area B-3 detectives. that's 617-343-4712.
 
This morning shooting is not related to the parade that occurred. This incident happened on the outskirts of it. You know, very early in the investigations, but it seemed seems to potentially be maybe two groups having some type of altercation around that.
 
And so, unfortunately, as a result of it, being a large crime scene, we did stop the parade at the -- on Talbot Avenue, given the fact that it was a large crime scene, and the fact that we had to gather up evidence. But the remainder of today's events will be going on.
 
And we encourage, again, the public, if anyone who was there to actually give us some help on this so we can investigate it. And more importantly, I just want to say to anyone who -- any bad actors who want to potentially come to any large gathering or crowd to do -- to do harm that we have many, many offices out here. And we will absolutely do all we can to make sure that you are arrested for disturbing any kind of the public's peace, whatsoever, when it comes to these cultural events in our city.
 
And so, again, we're asking for the public's support on this one this morning. And we have the mayor speak now. No?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Would you mind that -- (INAUDIBLE).
 
COX: Oh, I'm sorry.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (INAUDIBLE), spell your name -- 
 
COX: Excuse me, just -- these isn't district attorney. I'm sorry.
 
CAITLIN FITZGERALD, ASSISTANT DISTRICT ATTORNEY, SUFFOLK COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE: That's -- thank you. Good morning. Spell my name? That's C-A-I-T-L-I-N Fitzgerald. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Suffolk County District Attorney?
 
FITZGERALD: From the Suffolk County District Attorney's Office.
 
Good morning. What happened this morning was a tragedy. There are too many guns on our streets in our communities. The district attorney's office has prioritized fighting gun violence in our communities, and we're going to continue to do so. We're going to work hand in hand with the Boston Police on this investigation, and do our best to make sure we don't see events like this again. Thank you.
 
MICHELLE WU, MAYOR OF BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS: Thank you. Thank you, Caitlin.
 
Thank you to the Boston Police and the commissioner, as always, for his leadership to the district attorney for already a lot of hard work today and partnership. And of course, our EMS and all of our first responders. It's always just heart wrenching to hear that a treasured community event has been disrupted by acts of violence from those who had nothing to do with the event. And there is no -- absolutely, no excuse for something that is open to the community and part of Boston's culture and heritage to be talked about in this way because of the acts that were introduced.
 
I'm so thankful to all of our first responders and especially Boston police who were had a very strong presence there, as they had planned and prepared for, and therefore, as you heard, we're not only there to immediately get weapons off the street and make the arrests for holding those accountable and begin the investigation, but also to apply their training in saving lives and ensuring that on the medical side, they would be taking care of those patients until EMS arrived quickly after that.
 
And so, it just shows the range of professionalism and work and just immediate action that is required on a day-to-day basis from all of our officers.
 
We're so thankful that they are part of so many important city events. And today, the rest of the day is going to be a really wonderful celebration. You see, not only our officers and partners out in full force, but community members, organizers, people from every generation coming out to celebrate.
 
This is the 50th anniversary of the carnival. And that's thanks to the incredible dedication and leadership of people like Ms. Shirley Shillingford and so many organizers who have weathered not only ups and downs in terms of temperature and rain. But keeping this tradition going that is important for so many through very difficult moments of having the funds to keep it going and encouraging new generation - the new generation of members to get involved.
 
And so, most of all, thankful to Ms. Shillingford and the team for ensuring that Boston has one of the most vibrant and strongest carnival celebrations anywhere. We're going to have a great rest of the day and just want to thank them for 50 incredible years.
 
So, now, I'll pass it over to Ms. Shirley Shillingford.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We've been hearing from a variety of officials there. The mayor of Boston, the police commissioner there in Boston, after a very disturbing morning, a shooting taking place at The Caribbean Festival, on its 50th year that they have had that for this city.
 <br>[12:20:05]
 
And today a shooting. And now, it's led to the injuries of seven people. None life threatening. Our Polo Sandoval is also keeping a close watch on things that police commissioner there.
 
Polo saying there have been some arrests, but they're still looking for more suspects.
 
SANDOVAL: At least two suspects arrested is what we just heard from the police commissioner there a short while ago, as well as several weapons that have been seized. A total of seven people, according to police a few moments ago, were injured as part of the shooting. But really one of the main, and perhaps, most important takeaways, according to Boston's mayor is that this incident was not related to that event that was taking place earlier this morning. Though these pictures will certainly tell you that it was certainly affected by it. Or at least, the event itself was affected by the shooting, when you see that parade and the festivities that were put on pause amid the chaos here.
 
Also, I should note some pretty tremendous grace there by one of the organizers, apologizing for what happened, though, it is very clear, based on what we've heard from authorities that this event had nothing to do with the violence that broke out. Nonetheless, this event that was described just now as a very treasured and vibrant one for the community there in Boston, particularly in Dorchester is by some accounts potentially going to proceed here amid this investigation that is still ongoing that left, again, seven people injured, and at least two suspects arrested.
 
This certainly does raise those some very important questions about what police have taken into practice in terms of protecting people there, being that we have seen similar incidents play out. Perhaps not at such a large scope. But we have seen violent incidents on the sort of sidelines if you will, of this carnival in this parade. In some instances, has even resulted in the deaths of some individuals.
 
So, as we continue to listen to this ongoing presser, Fred, we'll keep checking back with you with the new developments of this shooting from early this morning in Boston.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Polo Sandoval, thank you so much. And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:26:09]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We're following a new developments in the very fast moving Georgia election interference case. Two of the pro-Trump attorney is charged in the case are now asking for speedy trials.
 
Sidney Powell has joined Kenneth Chesebro, in requesting quick trials. A judge has already scheduled an October trial for Chesebro. And in response to the request, Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis wants a trial for all 19 defendants at the end of October.
 
But the defense team for the former President Trump is trying to delay the start. Trump and his 18 co-defendants are facing a variety of charges, including racketeering and conspiracy.
 
They all surrendered ahead of yesterday's noon deadline. And this morning, one of the 19 co-defendant remains in the Fulton County Jail.
 
CNN's Isabel Rosales is with me. And we'll have more on the defendant as she'll bring us that. And CNN politics reporter Jeremy Herb, also with us.
 
So, Jeremy, help us understand what is next in this Georgia case overall?
 
JEREMY HERB, CNN POLITICS REPORTER: Yes, Fred. Now, that the 19 defendants have all surrendered, we get into this what's going to be a messy, complicated process on how this trial proceeds.
 
You know, one of the questions as you raised is when this trial will take place? We have seen two defendants say they want to have a speedy trial. For the former president, he wants basically the opposite of that, just as he has with his other trials.
 
The other question we're going to have is what Court does this take place in? Now, this is a Fulton County, this is a state indictment. But there have been five of the 19 defendants, they have tried to move their cases to federal court; includes Mark Meadows, the former White House chief of staff, Jeffrey Clark, who is the former Trump DOJ official, and three of the Georgia fake electors.
 
Now, their argument is that they were acting as Federal officers when they carried out the actions that are laid out in this indictment. And this could be significant because not only are we expecting the former president to file a similar motion, but the 19 defendants could have all of the trial moved if a judge agrees with these arguments.
 
And we're going to hear about this first on Monday, when there's a hearing from Mark Meadows' case, on whether he gets to move into federal court. Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Jeremy. All right, let's bring in Isabel Rosales, now. So, one of the 19 co-defendants is still in the Fulton County Jail. What is going on?
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: And that is Harrison Floyd. And unlike his co-defendants, he was not able to negotiate a bond agreement with the D.A.'s office. And there is a very clear incentive to negotiate that ahead of surrendering.
 
If you don't have a bond agreement in place before surrendering, you must remain in custody. And that's what we've been seeing here with Harrison Floyd, the only one of these 19 defendants in this sweeping Georgia case that is still in jail.
 
So, Floyd here is the former leader of Black Voices for Trump, and he is accused by prosecutors of being involved in an alleged plot to pressure an Atlanta elections worker Ruby Freeman into falsely admitting to massive fraud against Trump during the 2020 election.
 
Now, on Friday, Floyd, that you're seeing there on your screen, he learned that he will remain in jail. The judge, Emily Richardson was seeing to him and said that actually it's Judge Scott McAfee, who is the judge assigned to this case, he is the one that will ultimately decide bond. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EMILY RICHARDSON, JUDGE, FULTON COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT: I'm going to go ahead and find that you are risk to commit additional felonies and potential risks to plea a jurisdiction.
 
HARRISON FLOYD, CO-DEFENDANT: I got on a plane, I voluntarily came here. I'm already on federal pretrial supervision. I had no issues with being on pretrial supervision, there is no way I'm a flight risk, Ma'am. I showed up before the president was here.
 
RICHARDSON: I understand, Mr. Floyd. The issue bonds not going to be decided by me. It's going to be assigned -- decided by the judge who is assigned to handle your case.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[12:30:05]
 
ROSALES: And at last check, Floyd does not have representation. He told that judge, Emily Richardson, that he does not have the means, he could not afford a private attorney. And she told him that he doesn't actually meet the eligibility standards for a public defender.
 
Floyd also faces a separate charge of simple assault against a federal officer. This has to do with FBI showing up at his door, and he allegedly assaulted them when they were handing over a subpoena for him to show up in front of a federal grand jury in D.C.
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah, and that's partly what he was trying to explain to this judge and the conditions in which he voluntarily then came to Atlanta to face these charges.
 
ROSALES: And said he showed up before the president.
 
WHITFIELD: Right. All right, Isabel Rosales, thank you so much. And Jeremy Herb appreciate it.
 
All right, on the same day as Trump's arrest, President Biden solicited campaign donations, saying in an e-mail, quote, today is a great day to give to my campaign. While Biden has remained silent on the Trump indictments, he did weigh in on Trump's mugshot in this way.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Have you seen Donald Trump's mugshot yet?
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I did see it on television.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: What did you think?
 
BIDEN: Handsome guy. Wonderful guy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: CNN's Kevin Liptak joining us now from Lake Tahoe, where the President is wrapping up his vacation. So, Kevin, the White House has steered clear of talking about Trump's legal problems so far. This is the closest that we could get, you know, we meaning collectively, media comment from the President. What potentially could be next?
 
KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN REPORTER: Yeah, it doesn't seem as if there's a larger strategic shift at play. These were small moments, but they were notable and very intentional. That tweet went out on social media, that fundraising appeal just as Trump was arriving at the Fulton County Jail.
 
Of course, President Biden has been very intentional, not trying to weigh in on these cases. These four indictments of his predecessor, that's been a strategic decision as much as a moral decision. President Biden very much believes in the independence of the judiciary, but he also doesn't want to provide President Trump with a pretext for claiming political persecution.
 
So it has been interesting to see these developments. And in both of these cases, the campaign and President Biden adopted sort of a sardonic tone, approaching this with something of a light touch, not necessarily weighing in on the gravity of what's at stake here.
 
And of course, President Biden will have a balance to strike as he goes forward because the issues that are at play in these indictments go to the very heart of democracy, subversion of democracy, President Trump's attempts to remain in power. Those are issues that President Biden feels very strongly about and has weighed in on the past.
 
There will also be issues that animate this campaign going forward. But President Biden certainly doesn't want to appear as if he is meddling. His strategy has really been to go about the business of the presidency. And in fact, you saw that out here in Lake Tahoe this week as well. On the day that President Trump was arriving at the Fulton County Jail, the White House said that President Biden had spoken to the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy going about the business of American foreign policy.
 
So even though there isn't sort of a larger strategic shift at play, certainly what we can take from this is that the White House, the campaign and President Biden aren't going to be completely silent on these issues going forward. Fredricka?
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Kevin Liptak, thanks so much.
 <br>[12:33:32]
 
All right, still ahead, Maui County is suing a power company over that catastrophic wildfire. What they're alleging, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Police in Chicago say two fans were injured by gunfire at a White Sox baseball game last night. But the circumstances around the incident remain unclear. A 42-year-old woman was hospitalized after suffering a gunshot wound to her leg during the game against the Oakland A's. A 26-year-old woman was also grazed in the abdomen, but refused medical treatment, according to officials.
 
And now police are investigating whether the shots were fired from inside or outside the ballpark and say at no time was there an active threat. The White Sox released a statement today to wish the fans struck by bullets a speedy recovery.
 
And in Hawaii, it has been more than two weeks since wildfires left Maui in devastation. And so far, at least 115 people have been confirmed dead in that disaster. But authorities say they're still making recoveries. On Thursday, Maui County formally assigning blame for the first time, they are now suing the island's electric companies for the damages and for loss of life.
 
CNN national correspondent Mike Valerio is following the latest. Mike, what are county officials claiming in the lawsuit?
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, Fred, they're saying, quote, the negligence, carelessness and recklessness of Hawaiian Electric Company and its subsidiaries is directly responsible for the fires. The electric company strongly denies that.
 
So there's the issue of who's to blame. And then there's the incalculable human cost, the loss of life and the loss of dreams that people have been building for years. On that front, we spoke to small business owners on Maui about how this disaster has changed them forever.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RYAN STAUB, GLASS BLOWER: This one used to be a restaurant called Longhi's.
 
VALERIO (voice-over): There is agony in every stone of Lahaina's Front Street. Utility teams solemnly at work. Memories of what happened here, of visceral and mournful force.
 
STAUB: People were jumping in the water, but also there's no air because the fire is eating all of the oxygen, right?
 
VALERIO (voice-over): Glass blower Ryan Staub takes us to his art gallery, what remains of it.
 
STAUB: These were my windows where we had tons of beautiful glass art and now there's just piles of rubble.
 
VALERIO (voice-over): But amid the devastation there is compassion, the Hawaiian spirit of Ohana, family.
 <br>[12:40:04]
 
DR. CORY LEHANO, OWNER, MAULIOLA PHARMACY: On the ground, it is just a lot of gratitude.
 
VALERIO (voice-over): Pharmacist Dr. Cory Lehano is devoting his dream, his business to give away medications. Thousands of doses, he says, absolutely free to those in Lahaina who lost everything.
 
LEHANO: I know that we've ministered thousands and thousands of doses of medication, whether that be the expensive injectables for those battling diabetes or any type of behavioral health medications. We've done it across the board.
 
VALERIO (voice-over): Amid all of this, there is a feeling among many of duty to stay in Lahaina and help its rebirth.
 
LEHANO: There are, you know, literally thousands of people who need stability and who need something to look to. And, you know, as trusted healthcare professionals, we have that mantle and that responsibility to take care of that.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VALERIO: Amazing right there. So we asked Dr. Cory if he needs help at all donating all of those doses to people for free. And he's told us that he's accelerated the launch of his nonprofit Nojono Health to aid in that effort. Ryan Staub, for his part on his GoFundMe, has so far raised $27,000 to eventually return to Front Street. Great news there.
 
But back to the lawsuit, preserving evidence of power equipment in the area where the fire started is critically important. So the electric company here, Fred, has faced allegations that it moved and potentially damaged equipment before federal investigators got to the scene. The utility is responding today with this statement, writing in part, quote, Hawaiian Electric is taking reasonable steps to preserve its own property that was damaged or destroyed because of these devastating fires. However, state, local and federal government actors and others are moving forward to fight the fires and to clear out debris and other items that impede that effort. It is therefore possible, even likely, that the actions of these third parties, whose actions Hawaiian Electric does not control, may result in the loss of property or other items that relate to the cause of the fire.
 
Translation the utility is saying it may not be our fault if there is evidence that is damaged in this case. Fred, it's just one of so many tributaries as Maui continues to hurt this Saturday.
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. It really is just the beginning. All right, Mike Valerio, thank you.
 
VALERIO: You bet.
 
WHITFIELD: Still ahead, temperatures are skyrocketing across the south as the third round at the Tour Championship gets underway in Atlanta. More on how golfers and spectators are trying to stay cool as we take you there live after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:47:03]
 
WHITFIELD: In the nation's Capitol, thousands are gathering on the National Mall to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the historic March on Washington. Organizers describe today's event not as a commemoration, but a continuation of the dream Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. outlined at the Lincoln Memorial on August 28th, 1963.
 
And the third round at the Tour Championship in Atlanta just got underway. And boy, is it hot. Today, golfers and spectators will battle temperatures in the upper 90s, but who will overcome the scorching conditions to take home the $18 million top prize? CNN's Don Riddell joining me now from the East Lake Golf Club, where it is hot, hot. So, Don, what are the tournament officials doing to help keep the players and the spectators cool and safe?
 
DON RIDDELL, HOST, CNN WORLD SPORT: Well, yeah, it is insanely hot here. We actually had the CNN meteorological team out with us here yesterday. They were doing a lot of reports into the shows, and they were saying that the heat index today could get as high as 109 at the moment, I believe it's about 93 degrees. But it is very, very hot.
 
The players, of course, doing everything they can to keep cool. So there are cool towels, misting stations, hydration stations around the course, lots of sunscreen available. The players say it doesn't bother them too much. I guess they're prepared for it and they've experienced it before. For example, very, very similar weather conditions in Memphis just a couple of weeks ago. And the players are saying that they often see fans going down to quote them at tournaments like this, where it is like this.
 
So it really, really is incumbent on the fans to do everything they can in terms of hydration, sunscreen. And this course is tough. There's not much shade out there. There's not really many places you can escape the heat once you're out there and following the action. So it is very difficult. Of course, while people are trying to stay cool, the golfers are quite happy to stay red hot, especially the guys at the top of the leaderboard, like the American player Collin Morikawa, who has a share of the lead going into this third round.
 
He's going to be getting underway, playing in the final group with Viktor Hovland in about two hours time. And Morikawa desperately hoping for some success. He is one of the most accomplished golfers on tour. He's one of the most successful. He's definitely kind of up there in terms of how he's regarded. He's a two time major winner. But he hasn't won any tournament anywhere since the Open Championship more than two years ago.
 
So he is desperately hoping that he can keep this run going. He's already broken Tiger Woods tournament record here through 36 holes, which was set back in 2007. Morikawa doing very, very well. And he's not just playing for himself and the prize. He's also playing for the victims of. the wildfires in Maui. He said that every birdie he makes during this playoff run, he's going to donate thousand dollars to the relief effort. So far he's up to 40. So that's 40 grand from Morikawa going to those relief efforts.
 <br>[12:50:05]
 
WHITFIELD: That's so nice. What a nice touch.
 
All right, Don Riddell, thank you so much.
 
RIDDELL: All right.
 
WHITFIELD: Russian investigators now say they have recovered the flight recorders from the plane crash believed to have killed Wagner boss, Yevgeny Prigozhin, details next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: Investigators have recovered the flight recorders from the deadly plane crash outside of Moscow. And Russia, says Wagner mercenary group leader Yevgeny Prigozhin and nine other passengers and crew were on board. Several of them are believed to be senior Wagner officials. Russian President Vladimir Putin reacted to the crash and described Prigozhin as a talented man who made serious mistakes. The crash happened two months to the day after Prigozhin led a brief rebellion in Russia.
 <br>[12:55:15]
 
Let's talk more about all these developments now with Jill Dougherty. She is a CNN contributor and former CNN Moscow bureau chief. She's also an adjunct professor at Georgetown University. Jill, great to see you.
 
JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Hey, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: So without hearing anything officially about what happened to that plane, why it went down, does anyone not believe that Putin was behind it?
 
DOUGHERTY: Well, there probably are some people in the Kremlin I would say. But seriously, you know, in my time in Moscow, I saw a lot of investigations, and when they are run by the government, they usually turn out the way the government wants them. So I think it's pretty easy to conclude that it will not implicate President Putin. It could find somebody else was at fault. It could be terrorism. It could be somebody who didn't like Prigozhin. It could be rivals. It could be Ukraine or another way that often investigations end up is inconclusive. Well, we simply don't know. The data didn't tell us what we wanted to find out. And then it just kind of goes away. So at this point, we'll just have to see what they come up with. I think it'll actually be fascinating to see how they spin this as it goes on.
 
WHITFIELD: Yeah. And this is what former CIA Director and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta told CNN about Vladimir Putin right now. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEON PANETTA, FORMER CIA DIRECTOR: He was going after somebody who, frankly, enjoyed a lot of support from Putin's supporters, right wingers, military types, people who criticized the war in Ukraine. And so the very base that Putin needs in order to survive in office was also very close to Prigozhin.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: And Jill, to see the memorials that have been erected for Prigozhin, I mean, it's pretty impressive. And I wonder, has there been a feeling that, you know, Putin has been like it is perhaps running the risk of making a martyr out of Prigozhin?
 
DOUGHERTY: Yeah, I think that's a very good question, because it is a delicate balance. I mean which you just heard, that he was popular among, let's say, people more to the right, the people who want to continue the fight in Ukraine, et cetera. He was considered kind know, there's a Russian word, Muzick (ph), which is like a real guy. He was considered a real guy who told it like it was. And that went over with a lot of people.
 
Now, the elites, many of them thought he was, you know, a loose cannon. But this is, I think, why you see Putin, who for months and months, you know, was in the Kremlin hiding away from COVID behind long tables. He has been out for quite a while now among the people being embraced. There was video that I was watching just the other day where, you know, post-crash, where he is out and people are yelling, we love you, President Putin. So I think he has to drive home that he is popular. He's the one that the people really love.
 
WHITFIELD: Are there risks for the Russians who are showing remorse, who are wiping away tears, who are placing the flowers down in honor of Prigozhin? Are they running risks at all?
 
DOUGHERTY: You know that's another great question. So far, I have not seen indications of that. However, I think that the Kremlin and security officials are worried about what the reaction from the fighters, you know, the people who really were loyal to Prigozhin, the Wagner fighters, and who are many of them very, you know, talented, although vicious fighters. Could they be so angry that they might turn on Putin or on the government? That hasn't happened yet. But I think they're definitely watching for that.
 
WHITFIELD: It wasn't just Prigozhin on that plane. There were also several other senior members of the Wagner group. Is it your assessment that the Wagner group has been wiped out? Or is it going to be, I guess, redirected?
 
DOUGHERTY: I think redirected. It -- wiping it out, in a sense, is almost impossible. The organization under the name of Wagner can end. However, I think because of what it was involved in, let's say, you know, Africa certainly a very lucrative business that he had, shaking down governments and then also providing security for a more repressive government. He was into blood diamonds, minerals, et cetera, making a lot of money, and certainly nobody wants to give that up.
 <br>[13:00:08]
 
And remember that Wagner was a critical part of Russia's foreign policy in Africa, and also the government isn't going to give that up either. So we've seen officials down in Africa saying, we'll be with you, even if he's gone.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. All right, Jill Dougherty, thanks so much.