Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Seven Israeli Soldiers Killed In Single Incident In Gaza; U.N. General Assembly Votes To Demand Immediate Ceasefire In Gaza; Joe Biden Warns Not Giving Ukraine More Cash Would Give Vladimir Putin "Greatest Christmas Gift"; Climate Draft Does Not Call For Phase-Out; U.S. Intel Documents Detail Heavy Cost of War for Russia; CNN Rides with U.N. Peacekeeper Patrol in Southern Lebanon; Vietnam: 36 Cooperation Deals Signed During Xi's Visit to Hanoi; Venezuela-Guyana Tensions; Turkish Football Turmoil. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired December 13, 2023 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[01:00:00]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Coming up here on CNN, the Israeli military confirms one of the deadliest attacks by Hamas since the Gaza ground offensive began. Seven soldiers including a battalion commander, killed in one incident in northern Gaza.
 
From as long as it takes to as long as we can. The U.S. President walks back a rock solid commitment to Ukraine, as Republicans in Congress block billions in wartime funding. And at COP28, the only phasing out of fossil fuels seems to be in the wording of the summit final agreement.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN Newsroom with John Vause.
 
VAUSE: We begin with breaking news on the deadliest days for the Israeli military since ground operations began in Gaza more than six weeks ago. According to the IDF, seven soldiers, including a battalion commander were killed in one incident in Gaza. 
 
Overall, 112 Israeli troops have been killed inside Gaza since October 7 as the ground offensive continues to expand. CNN's Elliott Gotkine is following developments. He joins us live from London. 
 
So in this one particular incident, we know a very high ranking officer was involved. He was among the dead, six other soldiers also killed. But this was a part of Gaza in northern Gaza, which was said to be almost sort of under control by the IDF. So what more do we know at this point?
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST: John, details are still coming through. You've given the main lines that we've got from the official IDF stance, which is seven soldiers killed in a single incident including a battalion commander. This is from the Golani Brigade, which is one of Israel's commando units. 
 
What we understand from military correspondents in Israel who've been briefed by the IDF is that these troops were on an operation in Shuja'iyya, which is just east of Gaza City in the northern part of the Gaza Strip, they came under fire, then there was an improvised explosive device of some sort that was detonated. 
 
They went into a building another and then when other troops tried to join them to try to help them that another explosive device was detonated, and that those explosions resulted in the deaths of those seven soldiers. 
 
In another incident inside the Gaza Strip, another Israeli soldier was killed and there are also a number who have been wounded as well. 
 
Now, this wasn't the deadliest incident or even the deadliest days since ground operations began in earnest. But it's certainly up there. And I suppose that as you say it despite Israel saying that it is not in control, but certainly seemingly in the closing stages of its operations to deal with these two hammer strongholds as Israel describes it of Jabalya and Shuja'iyya in the northern part of the Gaza Strip.
 
Hamas and its fighters still have, if not the numbers and the capacity to inflict serious harm on Israel as it tries to finish the job there. And of course, at the same time, we've seen Israel turning its attention to the southern part of the Gaza Strip, Khan Younis, the second biggest city where it believes Yahya Sinwar and other leaders of Hamas, and masterminds of the October the seventh massacre are hiding underground. 
 
And I suppose the tragic irony from Israel's perspective is just a few hours earlier, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was addressing soldiers that are at an Air Force base. And he was talking about how more than 2,000 years ago which is when the story of Hanukkah, which Jews around the world and certainly in Israel are celebrating right now, took place in Israel overcame the odds and beat back the Greeks who were trying to obliterate their culture that four out of five of those Hasmoneans the Jewish rebels were killed, and in other words, talking about the sacrifices that are happening, and that undoubtedly will continue to happen. 
 
And so this incident, as I say, not the deadliest, but among them and more such incidents would be expected as this fighting continues and intensifies as Israel tries to finish the job in the northern part of the Gaza Strip, and focuses its attention on the southern part as well, John.
 
VAUSE: Elliott, thank you. Elliott Gotkine in London. Thanks for the update. 
 
A rift appears to be growing between Israel and the U.S. with very public criticism from President Joe Biden over the high civilian death toll in Gaza and the need for more humanitarian assistance. He's also at odds with the Israeli prime minister over a two state solution to the ongoing conflict with the Palestinians. CNN's Alex Marquardt has details now reporting in from Tel Aviv.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): The deeper Israel gets into its war in Gaza, the more discomfort the U.S. is expressing as Israel's closest ally. The most pointed comments yet from President Joe Biden, telling donors that Israel is losing global support, and that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu needs to change tactics, which Biden says is difficult with Israel's current government, the most right wing in Israeli history. 
 
The conservative poll by far right ministers means Israel quote, doesn't want a two state solution, Biden said.
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: Two states for two peoples and it's more important now than ever.
 <br>[01:05:04]
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): All indications are that is not Netanyahu whose goal.
 
And a tape message before Biden's comments, Netanyahu admitted there are differences and who the two countries believe will govern Palestinians after the war. But Netanyahu knows how critical American support is thanking the U.S. after it was the only country to vote against the U.N. Security Council's resolution for an immediate ceasefire. 
 
Israel is still battling militants in Gaza is North wild pushing south. The IDF claims to have killed an estimated 7,000 militants, while the Hamas controlled Ministry of Health says that over 18,000 people have been killed in Gaza, with almost the entire population displaced. 
 
Biden's national security adviser is telling CNN that Israel must open this Kerem Shalom border crossing to allow aid directly into Gaza. Jake Sullivan says they're telling Israel it's an emergency. We are asking you to do this ASAP, he says, because of the nature of the humanitarian situation on the ground. 
 
We saw aid trucks being inspected, but they're still being routed through Egypt. 
 
MARQUARDT: Right here is where Egypt, Israel and the Gaza strip all meet. These trucks coming into Israel from Egypt could in theory go straight into Gaza to deliver that aid. But for now, that is something the Israeli government is not allowing. 
 
MARQUARDT (voice-over): Humanitarian groups describe horrendous conditions for displaced Palestinians. This mother trying to push rainwater out of the tent that she shares with nine children, including a baby.
 
Damn Hamas and Israel. It's enough for us, says Fatima. Have mercy on us and stop or let Israel kill us all and give us relief. 
 
13 year old Rana (ph) says her family has nine people in their tent also full of water. My siblings are freezing, Rana (ph) says, we don't know what to do. We want to go back to our homes and not drown. Alex Marquardt, CNN, Tel Aviv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Joining me from Jerusalem is Shaina Low, Communication Adviser at the Norwegian Refugee Council. Thank you for being with us. 
 
SHAINA LOW, COMMUNICATION ADVISER, NORWEGIAN REFUGEE COUNCIL: Thank you. 
 
VAUSE: One thing is clear right now, most of the world wants the military ceasefire in Gaza. There was overwhelming support for a non- binding resolution at the U.N. General Assembly, Israel, notably the U.S. and eight others do not. Here's the U.S. Ambassador to the UN. Listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.: In a ceasefire right now would be temporary at the best and dangerous at worst, dangerous to Israelis, who would be subject to relentless attacks, and also dangerous to Palestinians who deserve the chance to build a better future for themselves free from Hamas.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Really, you know, the long term risk to Palestinians in Gaza from Hamas, reigning in power seems kind of not the same as the risk they're facing right now from the Israeli military offensive, starvation, an outbreak of disease and total breakdown in society. There are priorities here, right. And that isn't one of them, I think.
 
LOW: Yes, you're absolutely right. The U.S. position on this is just blatantly wrong. Palestinians in Gaza are suffering unspeakable ways. I personally have lost the vocabulary to describe the catastrophe befalling the 2.3 million people living in Gaza, who have been under siege, complete siege for more than two months now, who are lacking basic supplies, or many of whom are already at risk of starvation because of lack of food, rampant spreading of diseases, unsanitary conditions in which there are so few toilets available. People are deprecating in public, causing other health concerns. 
 
This is how desperate the situation is. And we desperately need a ceasefire now, that's that the Palestinians remain under attack. And we need to put an end to it now. So that -- and then we can start bringing in scaling up our humanitarian assistance, but so long as hostilities are ongoing. 
 
We humanitarian organizations are struggling to reach those who need aid the most, particularly those who have been in the north who have been cut off from almost all aid. Aside from the seven-day humanitarian pause, we desperately need a permanent sustained ceasefire. Now, this is not going to be resolved through ongoing hostilities.
 
VAUSE: Right now the only way into and out of Gaza, for people for good it's via the Rafah crossing in the south on the border with Egypt. There is also the Erez crossing in the north, which was destroyed by Hamas October 7, but was primarily only for foot traffic for people. 
 
There is also the Kerem Shalom crossing which was designated for the transportation of goods, that remains close. It's controlled by Israel. If it was reopened for convoys humanitarian aid, what impact would that have and would it be immediately felt -- is that any good at this point without a ceasefire I guess is the caveat here. 
 <br>[01:10:10]
 
LOW: Well, we desperately need more aid coming in no matter what. Obviously, the ideal circumstances to be distributing that aid would be with a cessation of hostilities and a long standing ceasefire. But the Kerem Shalom crossing must be open. And there are a few reasons why. 
 
The first is that Israel since 1967 has occupied the Gaza Strip, and that occupation comes with certain obligations towards the Palestinian people who are protected under international humanitarian law. Israel must provide for the basic necessities for survival for those people, and they are not. 
 
The second thing is a logistical issue, which is that first of all, Kerem Shalom has is designed for the transport of goods. The Rafah crossing was for -- it's for pedestrians. And so logistically, it's been a real hassle to get things through. 
 
Additionally, many humanitarian organizations are not registered in Egypt. And it's taking us some time to work to try and get that registration, which requires us to build partnerships with organizations that are registered in Egypt, the logistics, the ability to get things in quickly is very slow. 
 
Many humanitarian organizations, including partners of the Norwegian Refugee Council have aid preposition in either the West Bank, or in Jordan, and it would be much easier and less expensive to bring in goods through Kerem Shalom without having to go through Egypt and deal with the Egyptian authorities on top of the Israeli and Palestinian authorities.
 
VAUSE: We know Erez was damaged and is not functioning and as we say it's mostly for pedestrians, especially for foot traffic. Is there any reason that the Israelis have given that at this point Kerem Shalom could not be open on a limited basis? It's is it operational? Is it fully functioning? Is there any other reason that it cannot be opened apart from the Israelis just don't want it to be opened? Is there any other official reason that you've received?
 
LOW: My understanding is that it's purely political. The crossing obviously it has the means of being able to do the scanning and checks that Israel is insisting upon. And so if trucks are going in through Kerem Shalom being checked there and then brought back to Rafah, there's no reason why the truck should not be able to pass directly through Kerem Shalom into Gaza which would help relieve the bottlenecking that we're seeing at Rafah because it simply is a crossing that is not intended for the transport of goods.
 
VAUSE: Shaina Low, thank you so much for being with us. We appreciate your understanding. I also your time to tell us what's happening and what is it happening, I guess, more importantly, thank you. 
 
LOW: Thank you.
 
VAUSE: Right now billions of dollars in aid for Ukraine remains blocked by Republicans in the U.S. Congress. What President Biden has called the greatest Christmas gift for Russian President Vladimir Putin. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy made his third trip to Washington this week meeting with Joe Biden at the White House Tuesday. 
 
In the past, Biden has promised U.S. support for Ukraine will last as long as it takes, but now not quite so rock solid or clear cut. Biden saying the U.S. will supply Ukraine with weapons and equipment as long as we can.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BIDEN: Putin is banking on the United States failing to deliver for Ukraine. We must, we must, we must prove him wrong.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Senators and the House Speaker met with the Ukrainian president. But Republican lawmakers are pushing back against any more financial aid unless they get their way with U.S. immigration control and border security. Neither seemed likely to happen before the end of the year. 
 
Zelenskyy laid out his military aims for defeating Russia. But he defied calls for Ukraine to give up territory in return for a peace deal with Russia, saying that's insane. CNN's Manu Raju reports on the impasse in Congress and why Zelenskyy has not been able to move the needle.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Fears in the capitol that Ukraine aid could be stalled permanently amid a dispute over immigration that has completely stymied negotiations in the Senate. Republicans are demanding that aid to Ukraine be paired with stricter border policies. And Democrats say that the what the Republicans are proposing is just far too much than they are willing to accept the end result a bill that they tried to advance Democrats did without those stricter border measures failed in the Senate on Wednesday evening. 
 
Now one of the key Republican negotiators Tom Tillis of North Carolina told me that he believes that something needs to be done now because there will be a migrant surge at the border even worse than now. If Donald Trump becomes president and migrants believing that they need to come over the border now before 2025.
 <br>[01:15:05] THOM TILLIS, U.S. SENATE REPUBLICAN: So you have a presidential candidate who says he will close the border on day one, Donald Trump said that within the last 48 hours. He is likely to be the nominee and likely to win the race. What do you think's going to happen with future flows next year? They're going to double over the four time increase in the last year of Trump.
 
RAJU: But there's so much uncertainty about how this ultimately will get resolved, given the divide over the policy as well as the process. The Speaker of the House, Mike Johnson wants to move these bills individually Ukraine aid, Israel aid, as well as dealing with the border, tie had the border, tied to Ukraine. 
 
Democrats want Israel and Ukraine and everything else tied together as one big package. But they first have to agree on the policy and they're nowhere near an agreement on that, which is why there is a belief in the capital that members will leave town for the holidays without dealing with aid to Ukraine at a time when the White House warns that urgent action is needed, or you can't Ukraine will be kneecapped in its war against Russia. Manu Raju, CNN, Capitol Hill.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Russian missile attack on Kyiv just a short time ago has injured 53 people including eight children, according to the city's mayor. Most were hurt by falling debris and shattered glass according to a senior military official, who says the air defense systems intercepted targets over the city. 
 
The falling tree also damage homes and Children's Hospital. Ukraine tells CNN they need immediate U.S. support for the troops as winter sets in. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reports are for the front lines in Zaporizhzhia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR (voice-over): the war isn't over, or even slowing. Avdiivka in the east, the next town Moscow wants to slowly swallow. Endless Ukrainian drone videos show that huge losses. The latest U.S. intelligence estimate, Russia has had 13,000 casualties here. 
 
A huge number offered without evidence, but a clear bid to show American aid to Ukraine is right now hurting Russia. For lack of a potent summer break through means Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy faces perhaps his toughest weeks ahead. 
 
He had to take time away from fighting Europe's biggest war since the 40s to get caught between these two politicians as they have their own squabble. Here on Capitol Hill, the lawmakers are eager to go home for the holidays at the end of the week.
 
In Ukraine, weeks later, they may start running out of money on the front lines. It is life and death. One helicopter pilot in the East told me. MYKOLA, UKRAINIAN HELICOPTER PILOT: It will be very difficult for us to fight without your assistance. But we have no choice. This is where a serious things because unfortunately we don't have enough power within our country to support our army. But we extremely needed. This is just a question -- the suggested point of our survival. 
 
WALSH: Russia is relentless shelling the city of Kherson hard most nights and mornings this week and said Ukraine security service possibly behind a cyber attack hitting a major cellphone provider. It impacted air raid sirens, air raid alerts on phones, and added to the sense of Putin moving in on what's left of civilian safety in Ukraine as winter looks bleaker. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Next up here on CNN, at COP28, they're phasing out fossil fuels, but only in the wording of a new draft deal. I'm going to tell you why that's bad in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:20:49]
 
VAUSE: According to the latest research, 2023 was the hottest summer on record for the Arctic region with record high temperatures of 43 degrees Fahrenheit or six degrees Celsius. Sea ice continues to shrink exposing the dark surface of the ocean, which means it absorbs more heat from the sun. Scientists previously reported the 2023 will officially be the hottest year on record in the history of man. 
 
And just in the past few hours a new draft deal to try and tackle rising temperatures and other aspects of climate change was announced as a COP28 summit in Dubai follows backlash over Monday's watered down proposal which was accused of pandering to big oil. 
 
New text mentions transitioning away from fossil fuels, but does not oblige countries to phase them out, which scientists say is crucial for the survival of our planet as we know it. Eleni Giokos has more now on the talks on Dubai.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: International negotiators are bitterly divided about the wording for the final agreement here at COP28 Climate Summit. What we have seen over the last couple of weeks is a big debate on whether we should see phasing out of fossil fuels or the phase down of fossil fuels. 
 
That wording matters because it carries with it large consequences specifically for fossil fuel producers as well as for energy security and what it would mean for a transition away from something that the world is absolutely addicted to. 
 
Now, what we've seen the draft communique is the removal of the words phasing out of fossil fuels. And it's basically a watered down version. Some say it's an oil down version, because it really does eliminate the commitments that we need to be seeing to address the climate crisis that's playing out globally, the world has just come off its hottest year on record. 
 
And of course, temperatures are expected to rise. Fossil fuels are the biggest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions globally. And frankly, the words fossil fuels have not been included in any COP agreement in the past. So this is why it would be historic, even if those words are in the agreement but in what context. And that really does matter. 
 
What we've seen thus far in this draft proposal, it talks about the face down of coal and new coal fired power plants, and anything to do with coal, which of course was very progressive, because we've seen this agreement in the last two COPs. 
 
But what it does say in terms of fossil fuels, it basically gives countries a menu or a list of options, saying what it could do to start looking at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Part of that proposal is basically saying, you know, looking at finding ways to reduce consumption as well as production, but it really stops at that point. 
 
What we've also seen from the international community, a lot of activists have really dug in their heels saying that it's not good enough that we need to see far stronger wording that actually bears some consequences, especially the small island nation saying that they will not sign any agreement that doesn't include proper wording around fossil fuels. 
 
What we've seen on the other side of the spectrum, the likes of Saudi, Iraq, as well as Kuwait, according to observers, they say that they've been really opposed to any strong wording around fossil fuels. And we also heard that OPEC had sent a letter to their members saying they shouldn't support anything to do with wording around fossil fuel. 
 
So clearly, there is a very strong agenda on both sides for voices to be heard. Now, the big question becomes, what are they going to finally agree on, as we see this negotiation going into overtime? A huge delay, and probably what will be one of the most important COP summits that we have seen to date, as we start to, of course, come face to face with a climate emergency that is playing out in real time. Eleni Giokos, CNN, Dubai.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[01:25:00]
 
VAUSE: Joining us now for more on COP28 is Katharine Hayhoe, Chief Scientist at The Nature Conservancy, and professor at Texas Tech University. Welcome back.
 
KATHARINE HAYHOE, CHIEF SCIENTSIT, THE NATURE CONSERVANCY: Thank you for having me, John. 
 
VAUSE: OK. So, I want you to listen to the director-general of COP28 with what this side has been trying to achieve, here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAJID AL SUWALDI, DIRECTOR-GENERAL, COP28: We are trying to agree a comprehensive plan to close the gaps between where the world is and where it needs to be to keep 1.5 degrees within reach. That is our North Star that has been our North Star all along. Part of this is to include language on fossil fuels in the text, if we can, that would be historic.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: OK, it would be historic, it doesn't seem like they're getting there. But put this in some kind of context here. Has there been this amount of attention in the past on phasing out fossil fuels at climate summits in previous years?
 
HAYHOE: Well, what most people don't realize is that the words fossil fuels did not even enter these formal agreements until two years ago. Two years ago at the COP and Glasgow was the first time that countries agreed to phase out ineffective inefficient fossil fuel subsidies. And there was a huge argument ultimately ending in disagreement over whether to phase out coal, that was just two years ago. 
 
So when you look at it from that perspective, what is being discussed today is a significant step forward. It's just years too late.
 
VAUSE: Yes, there does seem to be a couple ways to look at this. There's that positive view, like this one from Mohamed Adel, Power Shift Africa, in Kenya, he's a delegate there. He wrote this, this is the first COP where the words fossil fuels are actually included in the draft decision. And obviously only a draft. This is the beginning of the end of the fossil fuel era. 
 
OK, so have we reached some kind of milestone here? Or are we kind of circling around the previous milestone?
 
HAYHOE: Well, if you look at what is already happening in the world, it's estimated by the IEA that our global carbon emissions will be peaking this year or next. There'll be peaking in China, the year after that. Renewable energy has been surpassing fossil fuels year after year, the cost of renewables is dropping. Efficiency is also on the table. 
 
So when we look at global action that's already happening, the number of cities and countries and companies that have net zero targets, we see that the fossil fuel era is ending, the question is how long it's going to take to end? And that is a very important question, because that determines the magnitude of the climate impacts will experience and whether or not human society will be able to adapt to the changes that will occur. 
 
VAUSE: OK, so with that in mind, here's the view from the delegate from Somalia, small island nation, under direct threat from climate change right now.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) TOEOLESULUSULU CEDRIC POSE SALESA SCHUSTER, SAMOAN MINISTER OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT: If we do not have strong mitigation outcomes at this COP, then we will be this will be the 1.5 would have died. We will not sign our deficit certificate. We cannot sign on to text that does not have strong commitment on phasing out fossil fuels.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: So I guess, you know, your perspective is in many ways where you stand around the world and what how big of a threat climate change is, at the moment. And in many ways, it does seem that these climate summits are trailing where the world is, as opposed to the other way around.
 
HAYHOE: Oh, completely. And those comments highlighted the fact that those who have done the least to cause this problem are bearing the brunt of the impacts. The richest 1 percent in the world are responsible for more than double the emissions of the poorest 50 percent. 
 
Yet, when you look at the rising seas, stronger storms, more intense droughts and heat waves, we're all experiencing them. But who is being impacted the most. It's the most vulnerable countries in the world, which are typically the poorest countries to and that is profoundly unfair. And that is why climate action truly is an issue of justice and equity.
 
VAUSE: And COP28 was sort of born in controversy, if you like pacifically, because it was being hosted by the UAE, a major oil and fossil fuel, export oil and gas. And then there was also the controversy over deals on the sides and a whole bunch of other stuff. Has that clouded what could have been done here or what has been done here in many ways?
 
HAYHOE: Absolutely. There's been so much airtime taken up with concerns over what the President has said about how there's no he claimed there's no science behind phasing out fossil fuels for the 1.5 degree goal behind all of the other controversies related to the host. 
 
And then next year, it looks like it'll be hosted by another oil and gas dominated country. So we are looking at this consistent noise when really we need to be focused on what is going to move us towards a better future as quickly as possible. 
 
VAUSE: Katherine, thanks for being with us. We'll leave it there. Appreciate your time.
 
HAYHOE: Thank you for having me.
 <br>[01:30:03]
 
VAUSE: Still to come on CNN, a ride along with U.N. peacekeepers on patrol in southern Lebanon, where cross border fire is a daily occurrence. 
 
Plus a far-right lawmaker in Poland faces discipline after disrupting a Hanukkah celebration in parliament. Details ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back. You're watching CNN NEWSROOM. Excuse me.
 
I'm John Vause with a clearer throat. 
 
U.S. funding for Ukraine since Russia invaded almost two years ago has topped $100 billion, with billions more stored in Congress. And now a U.S. intelligence assessment has revealed the high price Russia has paid for its war of choice. And that includes more than 300,000 troops killed in action. 
 
CNN's Natasha Bertrand reports now from the Pentagon.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: The U.S. released declassified intelligence on Tuesday indicating that Russia throughout the last year plus of its war in Ukraine has suffered extremely heavy losses on the battlefield. 
 
But the intelligence also indicates that the Russians are determined to keep throwing troops at the war and push forward. 
 
In one intelligence assessment that was downgraded and released on Tuesday, the U.S. intelligence community assessed that just this October alone the Russian military has suffered 13,000 casualties as part of its war in Ukraine. 
 
But that same assessment said that the Russians are still determined to continue to move forward and that the Russian hope that U.S. support for Ukraine will continue to dwindle amid the coming winter months. 
 
Now, in another intelligence report that was provided to Congress and obtained by my colleague on Tuesday, the U.S. intelligence community assessed that a staggering 87 percent of Russia's prewar force has been depleted as a result of its war in Ukraine. Whereas Russia started with around 360,000 ground troops that it was able to put into its fight in Ukraine, it lost about 315,000 of those troops. 
 
Now, the reason that the U.S. Is disclosing all of this intelligence on Tuesday when President Zelenskyy is in Washington, D.C., to plead with lawmakers and the Biden administration to keep providing Ukraine with aid and military equipment, is because the U.S. is trying to convey to lawmakers and to the international community that the Ukrainians' war against the Russians has been an extremely good return on investment. 
 <br>[01:34:53]
 
BERTRAND: They have essentially managed to deplete the Russian military to such an extent that it is more weak now than it has been in many, many decades. And so, the U.S. now says that the momentum has to continue, the U.S.
 
 and international community have to continue to support Ukraine at this very pivotal moment. Because if they don't, then the Russians will only continue to fight even harder, throw more bodies into the fight, and hope to maintain -- to take complete control over Ukraine, something obviously that the United States does not want to see. 
 
What the U.S. really is emphasizing on Tuesday, as President Zelenskyy visited Washington, D.C., is that President Putin of Russia is closely watching what the U.S. Congress and the U.S. is going to do moving forward, closely monitoring whether the U.S. is going to be able to continue supporting Ukraine at the pace and the level that it has been over the course of this war. 
 
Natasha Bertrand, CNN -- at the Pentagon. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: There will be no happy homecoming or family reunion for at least two hostages held in Gaza. Israeli soldiers recovered the bodies of a 28-year-old woman and a soldier during one operation, they were both taken hostage by Hamas during October 7th. 
 
In her last phone call, representatives of the family said the woman asked her father to care for her dogs. The number of hostages now in Gaza stands at 135. 
 
The Israeli military says it struck Syrian military targets and Hezbollah positions in Lebanon, amid fresh exchanges along its northern border. Israel says the strikes are in response to launches from inside Syria and missile and border fire coming from Lebanon. Cross border exchanges have become a daily occurrence since the Hamas attack on Israel. 
 
CNN's Ivan Watson rode along with U.N. peacekeepers in southern Lebanon. This is his report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: On patrol with United Nations peacekeepers, armored personnel carriers rumbling through towns and villages of southern Lebanon. 
 
This is what a daily patrol looks like for the U.N. peacekeepers. And as you can see, they take security very, very seriously. 
 
Communities near the border with neighboring Israel appear all but deserted. That's because this tense border region has been the scene of a deadly cross border conflict between the Israeli military and the Lebanese militia, Hezbollah. 
 
That is the Israeli security fence, just a couple of hundred yards away. And this United Nations peacekeeping post is as close as we can safely get to the Lebanese border with Israel, which has been a front line now in a conflict that's gone on for more than two months. 
 
From this post, we can easily see the Israeli village of Avichem (ph), also apparently deserted. 
 
LT. ESSIE O'CONNELL, U.N. INTERIM FORCE: It's quieter today. And earlier this morning there was a few explosions heard to east. 
 
WATSON: Lieutenant Essie O'Connell commands a platoon of around 30 Irish and Maltese soldiers at this small outpost. 
 
Have any of these explosions, any of these munitions, come close to this position? 
 
O'CONNELL: Yes, we had some land 200, 300 meters away from a position here. 
 
WATSON: The peacekeeping force has been deployed in southern Lebanon since 1978 and currently consists of more than 10,000 troops. Its primary mission is to monitor this tense border and help the Lebanese armed forces take over security here. 
 
LT. COL. STEPHEN MACEOIN, U.N. INTERIM FORCE IN LEBANON: Our very presence here it makes it very difficult for actors on either side to do, shall we say, unsavory things in this area. 
 
WATSON: Southern Lebanon is the stronghold of the powerful Iranian- backed Hezbollah militia, whose guerrilla fighters blend into the countryside.
 
Hezbollah says it is attacking Israel to show support for Palestinians in Gaza and the Israeli military is quick to retaliate. 
 
MACEOIN: We've seen advance anti-tank guided missiles. We've seen airstrikes. We've seen artillery strikes. We've seen small arms fire. 
 
WATSON: Despite these weapons, the peacekeepers only have a mandate to shoot in self-defense. And their mission is dangerous. 
 
During a month-long war with Hezbollah in 2006, Israeli strikes killed five U.N. peacekeepers and wounded many more. 
 
And last year, Lebanese gunmen attacked a Unicell vehicle killing an Irish peacekeeper and wounding three others. 
 
Hezbollah denied a Lebanese judge's accusation that the chief suspect was a Hezbollah member. At sunset, the engines of Israeli drones echo over the hills. 
 
MACEOIN: There are ordinary men, women and children living here in south Lebanon, and indeed across the border in Israel. My hope is that the conflict will recede. But am I concerned that it will escalate? Absolutely. 
 
WATSON: Peacekeepers afraid they can't stop this conflict from spiraling into a much bigger war. 
 
Ivan Watson, CNN -- on the Lebanese border with Israel. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) [01:39:57]
 
VAUSE: Anger and outrage in Poland after a far-right lawmaker disrupted a Hanukkah celebration in parliament on Tuesday by using a fire extinguisher to put out candles on a large menorah. There he is. 
 
But that wasn't all, there is more to come. He then took to the podium, describing the Jewish holiday as satanic. 
 
The speaker of parliament excluded him from the session, just the one session, saying there will be no tolerance of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, or fire extinguishers. 
 
Still to come, plenty of smiles and handshakes in Vietnam, where China's Xi Jinping is hailing a shared future between the two neighboring countries which once fought a war. A live report from Beijing on Xi's state visit in a moment. 
 
Also, the leaders of Venezuela and Guyana to meet over growing territorial disputes, raising fears of a possible conflict. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
Among the dozens of deals signed by China's President Xi Jinping during a Tuesday state visit to Vietnam is an agreement on maritime security in the disputed South China Sea, one which could be significant. 
 
Also even more important now for Chinese state media reports is that Xi describe China's relationship with Vietnam as a priority in neighborhood diplomacy. 
 
Notably, Xi visited three months after the U.S. President Joe Biden was there looking to strengthen ties with Hanoi. 
 
Let's go live now to Beijing. Marc Stewart is standing by for us. 
 
I guess all, you know, good things come to an end. This will too, eventually. But what is the big takeaway for Xi Jinping out of all of this? 
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I think the big takeaway for Xi Jinping, John, is the fact that he met face to face with his neighbor, a fellow communist nation, at a time when Vietnam is trying to assert its power on the world stage as well. 
 
So it's a way for Xi Jinping to show to the people of China that he is just as relevant even though Vietnam is getting a lot of attention. 
 
And why is Vietnam getting a lot of attention? Well, for one thing it's a big economic powerhouse or it's proving to be a big economic powerhouse, especially for manufacturing. We saw during the pandemic a lot of companies, especially American companies, got very frustrated with the supply chain disruptions and a lot of the delays that happened from being in China, Vietnam pushed itself forward and has become an alternative. So there is a big economic force in the addition to China and this is
 
 a way for Xi Jinping to let the world know that he is just as relevant. 
 
In fact, he is meeting with Vietnam's president, expected in the hours ahead. He also met with Vietnam's prime minister. 
 <br>[01:44:42]
 
STEWART: As far as what he wants to take away, he wants to show that he has an ally in Vietnam. In fact, Xinhua was one of the state media news sources here in China, quoted Xi Jinping as saying that he believes Vietnam will continue to support China and external interference and firmly advance the cause of national reunification. 
 
And that, in many ways, is seen as a veiled reference to Washington and really the West. In fact, it was earlier this year that we saw President Joe Biden make a visit to Vietnam in which Vietnam agreed to really elevate its relationship with Washington. 
 
As far as takeaways from this visit, you mentioned this maritime discussion. And so, such a deal was made that will allow both Vietnam and China to jointly patrol the Gulf of Tonkin, which is an area off the Vietnamese coast. 
 
But tension between these two nations as far as the South China Sea is still very strong. The South China Sea, a lot of different nations -- Malaysia, the Philippines, all claim sovereignty in addition to China. So while this is a small agreement, this broader issue of who controls the South China Sea looms. 
 
But this is an important visit to have Xi Jinping in Vietnam. Because John, the last time he was there, was six years ago. 
 
VAUSE: Marc, thank you. Marc Stewart for us live in Beijing. Thank you. 
 
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro says he will sit down with the president of neighboring Guyana on Thursday to discuss a growing territorial dispute. 
 
Venezuela has proposed creating its own state on a massive oil rich stretch of land inside Guyana raising fears of the conflict. 
 
This issue goes back more than a century, as CNN's Isa Soares reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ISA SOARES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It's an outlandish attempt at a land grab that has the world on edge. 
 
"Long live the full map of Venezuela, this is President Nicolas Maduro, revealing his new vision: a larger, a more powerful Venezuela, which includes Essequibo, a lush and vast patch of land that makes up two thirds of neighboring Guyana. Maduro is now threatening to invade Guyana after an incendiary
 
 referendum at home backed his bid to claim sovereignty over the territory. 
 
"let's publish and take to all the schools, high schools and universities of the country the new map of Venezuela," he says. 
 
Across the border Guyana's president Irfaan Ali is ringing alarm bells. 
 
IRFAAN ALI, GUYANESE PRESIDENT: This is a direct threat to Guyana's territorial sovereignty, and political independence. 
 
SOARES: Roughly the size of Florida, Essequibo has been a part of Guyana since 1899, when international arbitrators set the current borders. 
 
Venezuela has long sought to control their territory, and the discovery of more than 11 billion barrels of oil and gas off Guyana's coast by oil giant ExxonMobil in 2015, which put the country on track to become the world's highest per capita oil producer, has only emboldened Maduro. 
 
Now he's escalating tensions even further, naming a major general as the head of the new Essequibo state and telling oil companies operating in the region they have three months to pack up and leave. 
 
This, as he orders Venezuela's national oil company to start exploring the area. 
 
"Immediately we will proceed to give operating licenses for the exploration and exploitation of oil, gas and mines in all of Guyana Essequibo," he says. It's a move out of President Putin's playbook. 
 
And the fear, Guyana's president tells me, is that Maduro feels empowered by the Russian leaders invasion of Ukraine. 
 
ALI: We cannot allow a situation like Ukraine in this western hemisphere. We cannot allow the annexation of a territory in this western hemisphere. 
 
SOARES: Allies and neighbors too are taking note. Brazil's President Lula Da Silva has ordered additional troops and armored vehicles to the northern border. 
 
"Something we don't need in South America is war. We don't need a war. We don't need conflict," he says. "What we need is to build peace." 
 
And long-time ally, the United States is conducting flight operations within Guyana while throwing its support for the country's sovereignty and robust security. 
 
Isa Soares, CNN -- London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) VAUSE: Argentina said to devalue the peso by more than 50 percent to try and rein-in hyper-inflation, taking the conversion rate from 365 pesos to the U.S. dollar to about 800 pesos. All part of the emergency economic reforms announced just days into the first term of the new president who campaigned on replacing the peso with the U.S. dollar. 
 
The president said during his inauguration on Sunday, the country will endure a period of hardship and pain and struggle before moving forward. 
 <br>[01:49:47]
 
VAUSE: Well, chaos on the football field in Turkey after a club president punched a referee in the face. We'll tell you what happened and the implications, and the ratifications after a short break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: The world of Turkish football, in fact the world of football is kind of in shock and turmoil after a top tier club president ran onto the pit and punched a referee in the face. 
 
The president has since resigned, apologized, even been arrested. And the Turkish Football Federation is suspending matches across all leagues after what they call is a shameful incident. 
 
Shameful to say the least. Darren Lewis is with us now live from London. He's the assistant editor and columnist and a football writer for "The Daily Mirror. 
 
Darren, thanks to being with us. Thanks for getting up early. What more can you tell us about what actually happened here? What do we know about the referee? What we know about the attacker? And why a punch in the face? 
 
DARREN LEWIS, "THE DAILY MIRROR": Well, John, it's a random act of violence that really has forced football to take a long look at itself, not just in Turkey, but around the world as well. And the way that it treats referees too. The referee concerned is Halil Umut Meler. He's 37 years of age. He's one of Turkey's top officials, and he's only a (INAUDIBLE) for FIFA and UEFA, which means he is in a select group of referees that take charge of the biggest matches in Europe and around the world. 
 
Now here in England, the football association is trying to (INAUDIBLE) cameras, I suspect that will happen in Turkey too because during the match, the home side anchor (INAUDIBLE) just after half time -- (INAUDIBLE) one of their players the opposing team, the away side equalized and then at the end we saw that shocking punch. 
 
Now, the Turkish Football Federation, they have suspended all football in the country, and they intend to take action. They will host a meeting today, Wednesday. They've already said that they will give, and I quote, "detailed information about the decisions we will make about how the league will continue. 
 
But it is an incident, John, that has sent shockwaves around the world of football. 
 
VAUSE: Given the level of violence here, I mean it's sort of almost getting to the point of you know, I went to the hockey -- I went to the boxing, and a hockey match broke out.
 
I mean there does seem to be this increase in violence that is happening, not just in Turkey, but in other places. Not just on the pitch, but in the stands among the fans as well. 
 
What's being done to address this? Is there some sort of global action at the moment? 
 
LEWIS: Well, because the individual leagues are run by their own individual bodies, it is for them to take action. But for example, in Greece (ph) the most senior officials are meeting. They are discussing ways to deal with the outbreak of violence. 
 
We have also seen violence breakout in French football, in Italian football as well. And Turkish football has a long background of acts of acts of violence, either perpetrated by the fans, or as we are seeing, by individuals within the game. 
 
I must just tell you what has happened involving the individual within the footage we saw a second ago, because his name was Faruk Koca. He has resigned from his post as president of Ankaragucu. 
 <br>[01:54:44]
 
LEWIS: But he is also more seriously been arrested and two other individuals involved in that footage, you can see the official in the fetal position, trying to cover his face as he's being kicked by individuals we can't yet determine but the authorities will do that. 
 
But we should not be seeing that either in sports or in any circumstance, John. 
 
VAUSE: And the president of FIFA said that violence has no place in our sport or society, which absolutely true. He did make this point, without match officials, there is no football. 
 
And I think a lot of people kind of forget about that, or they overlook that part, just how crucial, you know, these match official are. 
 
LEWIS: You're absolutely right, John. You know, the head of Global Refereeing, Pierluigi Collina has said that the act earlier this week is symptomatic of the cancer that he believes would kill the game. These are his words. 
 
And he has investigated, he has looked, he's continuing an investigation into it. And he has called on all football to really take stock of the way that it treats referees. Because right now, no individual should go to work and have to fear for his safety. 
 
But as you suggest, this is a group of individuals whose eyer (ph) of these decision-making almost is seen as a greenlight for individuals to attack them, either verbally or physically. 
 
And I must just make this final point, John, if I may. At the lowest level, where teenagers get into the game, they take charge of matches because they aspire to become referees. They too are subject to abuse and violence. They are children, but that is symptomatic of the problem with in the game that football now realizes as a result of the treatment of (INAUDIBLE) it has to address. 
 
VAUSE: And I think the last point is kind of really important to emphasize. It starts at a very young age. It doesn't come out of nowhere. 
 
Darren, great to have you with us. We appreciate your time. Thank you for getting up early. Good to see you.
 
LEWIS: Thank you, John.
 
VAUSE: Thank you for watching. I'm John Vause. But wait, I will be back with more CNN NEWSROOM after a short break.
 
100 percent more me, in just a few minutes. 
 <br>[01:57:04]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)