Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Storm Hilary Caused Dangerous Flooding In California; From California To Idaho, Flood Warnings Issued For 16 Million People; Today, Trump And Several Co-Defendants Expected To Negotiate Bond Terms With Fulton County D.A.; Trump Anticipated To Turn Himself In This Week At Fulton County Jail; Meadows Asked Federal Court Against Him Be Dismissed; Bidens To Meet With Survivors And Response Teams In Maui Today; Trump Affirms He Will Not Attend First Primary Debate. Aired 1-1:30p ET

Aired August 21, 2023 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:00:37]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Right now, tens of millions of people are under a flood threat across the west, with California feeling the brunt of mother nature's fury. We're talking about heavy rains, severe wind, even an earthquake. And CNN is on the ground.
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Plus, we're live outside Fulton County Jail in Georgia where any day now, Donald Trump or any of his 18 accused co-conspirators could surrender on criminal charges. That's all coming at a critical time in the race for the White House as Trump's competition gathers for the first presidential debate without the former president and the frontrunner on stage.
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Face to face with tragedy. Right now, President Biden is traveling to Hawaii to see firsthand the devastation left behind by the wildfires there. More than 800 people are still unaccounted for, while the island is facing a new threat. We are following these major developing stories and many more, all coming in right here to "CNN News Central."
 
KEILAR: From Southern California to Idaho, 16 million people are under flood watches this hour, as this powerful weather system moves through the western United States. Just look at this video of flash floods that we could see early this morning. Water overtaking the streets in Cathedral City, which is east of L.A., gas stations were submerged.
 
And then in downtown San Diego, so much water gushed into the sewer system that it may have turned this manhole into a building-sized geyser. Hilary is now a post-tropical cyclone, but forecasters are warning that this storm will unload heavy rainfall in so many areas that are not prepared for this much water.
 
We have CNN's Stephanie Elam live for us in Cathedral City, which is not too far from Palm Springs where many people are dealing with just this huge amount of mud, Stephanie that was left in Hilary's wake. Tell us what you're seeing. STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It's so much mud, now that we can get out here and see. And I want you to actually see how far this spans out behind us because our Todd Anderson shot some beautiful drone video so you can see this road that I'm standing on, how far down the mud goes. And how there are trucks and cars, there's even a police vehicle down there, that are skewed and turned sideways because of how fast the water was moving overnight as Hilary was making her way through there.
 
In fact, we talked to this one gentleman, Jay Bublitz, who has been out all night helping rescue people because he's got a jeep with a wench and a snorkel so he can make it through lots of the roads that other people couldn't. Listen to what he said he saw.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAY BUBLITZ, DESERT HOT SPRINGS RESIDENT: Cars floating, especially up by Varner and Monterey, is it? And there's cars that -- that road's almost lashed out because you have the power plant right there and people were trying to cross it. So, the sheriff actually couldn't get across it, so I took them across so they could block the road off. But yes, there's people stuck everywhere.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELAM: People out when they should not have been. They were telling people, don't go out. And you saw a lot of people who were stuck in their cars. In fact, the woman there in that little black car on the right, she's been there since about 6:30 in the morning when she went past the police officers and came down this road on the wrong side of the road and -- that you see how far it got her. So, now, we're talking about basically four hours of just being stuck in one place. She's still sitting in the car.
 
This is why they don't want people out here. Look at this, we saw another car getting impounded because they didn't have a driver's license after going through there. But you see this water coming down through here, Brianna? This is what's happening now that the -- there's time for the sun to come in and melt things away here as far as the mud and the water. The water is making its way out into the wash here.
 
But what that is that leaving is even thicker cement-like, quicksand- like mud that when you step into it, you can get your boot stuck and you might even fall. Don't ask me how I know that.
 
KEILAR: I have an idea of how you might know that, Stephanie Elam. It's incredible, that sight behind you. Thank you so much for showing us what people there in Southern California are dealing with. We do appreciate it.
 
Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: For more on this, let's speak to CNN Meteorologist Jennifer Gray. And Jennifer, I know it's difficult for the land to swing from fire to drought to heavy rains. Explain to us why California's landscape is particularly vulnerable to flooding now.
 
JENNIFER GRAY, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Right. And especially those mudslides like we were seeing in Stephanie's report.
 <br>[13:05:00]
 
You know, we have these wildfires that burned, basically, the entire landscape, all the vegetation with it. And so, instead of having organic material for your soil and the vegetation that's going to hold it in place, now you have basically this hydrophobic material, and the water is not going to penetrate through it. And so, when you have all this rain, it's going to just wash it away essentially.
 
And so, you have this ash, this burnt top soil, and so it slides off the hillsides and that's where we see these mudslides, these mud flows like you were seeing all across California. We even saw some in Mexico, video out of it there, as well.
 
So, we are going to see the remnants of this post-tropical Hilary continue to just meander to the north. We are still seeing moisture across central California, and even into southern California at this hour. Winds of 35 miles per hour. Mount San Jacinto had about 11 inches of rain. In San Bernardino County, we had almost a foot of rain, so really impressive rainfall totals. We had some areas received well more than a year's worth of rain for this event.
 
So, Palmdale Airport about three inches of rain, this is daily rainfall records. Los Angeles -- Downtown Los Angeles about two and a half inches. And then Palm Springs area received about 4.3 inches of rain, that's nearly a full year's worth of rain in 24 hours. San Diego had 1.82, top five rainiest day in 100 years and 10 times the summertime average rainfall there. Los Angeles about 2.5 inches, rainiest summer day on record in 150 years.
 
This was definitely a historic event. Flood alerts are still in place and will be so for quite a while as this event continues throughout the day. Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: It seems like every day, in fact, it is every day, virtually, we have a record-breaking something. Rainfall, wildfire, you name. Jennifer Gray, good to have you on.
 
GRAY: Temperatures. All of it, yes. Thanks.
 
SCIUTTO: Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Now to the other major headline we're following today in Georgia, where this week, Donald Trump's political and legal battles collide. The former president, one of 19 defendants who must surrender at the Fulton County Jail by noon on Friday. We're learning that Trump and several of his co-defendants are expected to negotiate bond terms at the D.A.'s office today. For Trump, that surrender could come on Thursday or Friday on charges including conspiracy and racketeering tied to his efforts to overturn the 2020 election results in the peach state. Let's take you there now with CNN's Katelyn Polantz who's outside the courthouse where those negotiations are underway. So, Katelyn, bring us up to speed. What kind of activity are you seeing there today?
 
KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Well, Boris, the culmination of what is happening this week will likely be when Donald Trump is arrested and turns himself in to the jail later in the week. But we are already seeing a little bit of activity around here at the courthouse, a separate location where the district attorney works. That District Attorney Fani Willis who brought the case against Donald Trump and 18 other defendants related to their actions after the 2020 election in the state of Georgia when they were indicted last week.
 
What is happening today and what our team on the ground has been able to suss out is that it's likely that some of Trump's lawyers and other lawyers for defendants will be negotiating with the D.A.'s office starting today to set some bond terms, some bail terms. The terms of what happens once those people are arrested, because when they are arrested, they're not going to want to sit over at the jail. They're going to be wanting to have their release conditions set in advance so they can carry their papers in, go into the jail, have all of their processing done, whether that's fingerprints, mugshots, searches.
 
We don't know exactly how they're going to handle each of these defendants yet or what bond terms they're going to give them. But the negotiation for how that's going to play out, that is very likely to take place starting today. And we do expect some of those negotiations to begin with at least three lawyers working for Donald Trump, too, who he has enlisted in the state of Georgia to represent him here. As well as a lawyer who has essentially taken the lead on all of the criminal indictments that Donald Trump is facing now.
 
And so, we're waiting. We're watching for that. We haven't seen any indications yet of exactly what those bond terms are going to be for these 19 defendants, but we are waiting to see if they are going to be treated similarly to other criminal defendants in the state of Georgia.
 
SANCHEZ: Katelyn, what about one specific co-defendant on -- of Donald Trump's Former White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows. He's trying to have a federal court intervene and dismiss the state charges. What's the latest on that?
 
POLANTZ: Yes, Mark Meadows, the chief of staff to Donald Trump in the White House, he has already piped up in this case, the first person to try and get things moving. And what he wants to do -- we haven't seen him yet turn himself in for his arrest or negotiate bond terms, but he's trying to move his case into federal court and get it dismissed, that's what he has asked for.
 <br>[13:10:00]
 
So far, the reason he says, is because everything he did after the 2020 election, he wouldn't have done if he had not been chief of staff to Donald Trump, the president at the time. And so, Meadows is trying to use the constitution as his shield, get things pushed into federal court, out of state court, split off from the rest of the defendants, and kicked out of the system so that he doesn't have to face charges.
 
And has pointed out already in court that if Donald Trump or others want to delay things, he does not want to do that. He wants to move fast. And he's reminded the federal judge looking here at this case that before a hearing next Monday, they should be aware Meadows was not charged with any crime in the federal case against Donald Trump related to January 6th nor is he named as a co-conspirator there. He says that he is absolutely innocent of any sort of violations of the law.
 
SANCHEZ: We'll see if that legal strategy works for him. Katelyn Polantz outside the courthouse in Fulton County, Georgia.
 
Brianna.
 
KEILAR: So, does the constitution bar Donald Trump from holding office again? That is what some prominent legal scholars are now arguing. Law Professor Laurence Tribe and retired conservative Judge J. Michael Luttig say, it's right there in the 14th Amendment. They write in "The Atlantic" that section 3 automatically excludes from future office any person who has taken an oath to support and defend our constitution and thereafter rebels against that sacred charter. They explain this on CNN's "State of the Union".
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PROF. LAURENCE TRIBE, HARVARD LAW SCHOOL: The people who wrote the 14th Amendment were not fools. They realized that if those people who try to overturn the country, who try to get rid of our peaceful transitions of power, are, again, put in power, that would be the end of the nation, the end of democracy.
 
J. MICHAEL LUTTIG, RETIRED FEDERAL JUDGE: All officials, federal and state, who have a responsibility to put on the ballot, candidates for the presidency of the United States, for instance, they, himself or herself, are obligated under the constitution to determine whether Donald Trump qualifies to be put on the ballot.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: Two members of the conservative federalist society echoed those points. They say, that Trump's January 6th speech delivered a general and specific message that the election was stolen. And called on the crowd to take immediate action to block the transfer of power before falling silent for hours as the insurrection progressed. They cite lines like this from Then-President Trump's speech.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, THEN-U.S. PRESIDENT: We fight. We fight like hell. And if you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) KEILAR: So, the article draws upon the amendment's creation in the wake of the civil war, noting, "More people died and many more were injured as a result of the January 6, 2021 attack on the Capitol than died or suffered injuries as a result of the attack on Fort Sumter" which began the civil war.
 
And we should also note, advocacy groups actually brought up the 14th Amendment when they sued to remove Republican's Marjorie Taylor Greene and Madison Cawthorn from the ballot back in 2022 over their vocal support for the Capitol rioters. Judge decide -- a judge has decided that neither could be disqualified. There is, though, a question, Jim, of whether a 14 A lawsuit might be stronger against Donald Trump.
 
SCIUTTO: Well, it's interesting to see that debate carry into conservative thinkers as well. We'll continue to follow it.
 
Ahead at this hour on "CNN News Centra", no show, no problem. Former President Trump says, he is not attending this week's Republican debate as a new poll shows his competition has to overcome a major deficit to catch up to the frontrunner.
 
Plus, Maui just in ruins. President Biden is on his way there. Set to see firsthand, the devastation left by the wildfires, as we are learning that hundreds of people missing may never be recovered.
 
And we're following the fight against hundreds of wildfires now raging in Canada, as members of the armed forces there are helping to fight the battle.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know, for thousands of years, just regular people step up to be warriors, to protect their villages, protect their neighbors. And, you know, there's people up there working 36, 48-hour shifts and they take an absolute beating.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:18:51]
 
SCIUTTO: Right now, President Biden and the first lady are en route to Maui to tour the devastation from the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a hundred years. It's now been nearly two weeks since flames swept through the island. Crews continue to search the debris for victims. Maui's mayor says, 850 people remain missing. The official death toll stands at 114. As CNN's Bill Weir reports, emotions are raw ahead of the president's trip.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: Here in Maui, we've had almost now two weeks of anxious anticipation for the latest announcement on the dead and the missing. But that is, sort of, shifting into grim resignation that a lot of loved ones may never be found given the temperature of the fire. Governor Josh Green said that many of them will never be recovered.
 
So, as we stand overlooking the town, we are seeing the clouds of dust coming up from some of the heavy machinery, and it's so heartbreaking to realize recognize that dust holds people's children and parents and neighbor and loved ones. And how do you get a sense of closure in this particular space? This will be a sacred space for so many for so long. Three and a half square miles of area burned.
 <br>[13:20:00]
 
This is really an emotionally charged time. So many tender emotions right now. And so, the president is sort of walking into that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCIUTTO: Lord, what emotions. What a sense of loss there. Bill Weir filing that report. For more on President Biden's visit, CNN's Senior White House Correspondent Kayla Tausche is covering. Kayla, the president, he faced some criticism over the initial government response. I wonder what does he hope to accomplish while he's there?
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Jim, the president will witness firsthand what Hawaiians have endured, and to personally pledge the full resources of the federal government behind this recovery effort to an audience, both of locals on the ground, as well as the nation as a whole when he delivers remarks later this evening.
 
In response to some of that criticism, the White House has defended the president and said that he's been constantly working the phones over the last two weeks despite being on vacation. And that he didn't want to visit sooner because he didn't want to disrupt the effort that was underway. President Biden is someone who is personally acquainted with grief. And he is set to reprise his role as consoler in chief when he visits the island today.
 
And in a statement, the president said ahead of that visit, I know how profoundly loss can impact a family and a community and I know nothing can replace the loss of life. I will do everything in my power to help Maui recover and rebuild from this tragedy. And throughout our efforts, we are focusing on respecting sacred lands, cultures, and traditions.
 
Biden is also tapping Bob Fenton, a senior FEMA official to lead and coordinate the federal response. Fenton is someone that the president has leaned on frequently to serve as the chief of the administration's COVID-19 vaccine distribution in its early days. He also was the lead coordinator of the monkeypox response effort back in 2022. And he will be at the helm of this for the administration going forward.
 
Just a few moments ago, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell briefed a reporter and said that so far FEMA has distributed north of $8 million to residents on the island. But she reiterated that the disaster relief fund is set to enter the red at the beginning of September unless Congress passes more funding. Jim. SCIUTTO: You have to imagine, the recovery there is going to take place over years, not weeks or months. Kayla Tauscher there in California, thanks so much.
 
Brianna.
 
KEILAR: Coming up on "CNN News Central", without Donald Trump on the stage, Ron DeSantis believes he'll be the number one target on this week's -- at this week's GOP debate. How the Florida governor is preparing.
 
And we'll head back west as post-tropical Cyclone Hilary sweeps through and threatens deadly flooding.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:27:37]
 
KEILAR: So, we are just two days away from the first Republican primary debate of the 2024 race. And every top presidential hopeful is going to be on the stage with, of course, a glaring exception and that is the overwhelming frontrunner. Donald Trump confirming on his Truth Social platform that he will be skipping the debate on Wednesday and possibly future debates as well. Sources close to him say, he'll sit for an interview with Tucker Carlson instead.
 
We have CNN Political Director David Chalian with us now. You know, you have these brand-new CNN polls that showed Trump still has this commanding lead over the rest of the field. Is this just, you think, a decision on his part of, hey, if I do this debate, is it just going to hurt me? Why don't I just stay in a strong position?
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: That is precisely the calculation. Take a look at -- we averaged the recent national polls together, and a CNN poll of polls, this is a national snapshot. Look at this, Brianna, Donald Trump is 40 points ahead of his closest competitor Ron DeSantis, 57 percent to 17 percent. Followed by Ramaswamy at six and Mike Pence at four percent. And you can see, the other the others are in the low single digits too. When you look at the next slide here, three for Nikki Haley, three for Tim Scott, three for Chris Christie, Asa Hutchinson and Doug Burgum down at one percent.
 
Now, all those folks, not name Trump, are going to be on the stage. And there's an opportunity for them to try and begin the process in this first big introduction to Republican primary voters. Because remember, many voters have not been dialed into this race yet to start building a coalition of the non-Trump wing of the Republican party.
 
Now, the question is, is that even a big enough wing? Well, it suggests it is. Maybe 57 percent doesn't suggest that, but in the early states. There is half the party looking for an alternative. And so, having an opportunity without him on the stage to try and be the person to emerge as the guy that -- or gal that coalesces that support is a critical test for these candidates. KEILAR: And can Trump win without expanding -- 57 percent is a lot, but he needs to expand beyond that as well. And when you look at RNC officials, you look at Fox News executives, they have been begging him to be a part of this. I wonder what you think the relevance of this debate is going to be without him?
 
CHALIAN: Well, I do think it's relevant because half the party is in search for a Trump alternative. That's what will be on display on the stage. You know, they're going to get asked about Donald Trump. There's no doubt he's going to be a character in this debate, if you will, even though he won't be here -- there. But where there is not as much value is candidates wanting to really go at Donald Trump.