Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: New Search Underway For Missing British Toddler; Typhoon Mawar Strengthen; TikTok Sues Montana Over App Ban; Nine Days From Potential U.S. Default; Biden And McCarthy Meeting Productive But No Deal Reached; Lawmakers Float Possibility Of Biden Invoking 14th Amendment. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired May 23, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:32]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church.
 
Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. The clock is ticking down the stakes are high, and there's still no debt limit deal with the U.S. just nine days away from potential default. Mounting legal problems for Donald Trump. New civil, criminal and business troubles and the weeks just beginning.
 
Plus, a group of anti-Putin Russian fighters who support Ukraine claiming credit for an attack inside Russia.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: Good to have you with us. Well, a much-anticipated meeting between U.S. President Joe Biden and House Speaker Kevin McCarthy has come and gone with still no deal on raising the U.S. debt ceiling. Both the president and McCarthy said Monday's talks were productive. But it does nothing for a looming default, which could happen in just a matter of days. McCarthy was adamant they need to strike a deal this week in order to avoid the June 1st deadline when the U.S. could potentially default on its debt.
 
U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has been a constant reminder of the urgency of the matter. In a letter to Congress, she informed lawmakers another week of data and negotiations have done nothing to change the situation. Here's what Speaker McCarthy had to say about the meeting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA): I felt we had a productive discussion. We don't have an agreement yet. But I did feel the discussion was productive in areas that we have differences of opinion. I believe we can still get done. I believe we can get it done.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: CNN's Jeremy Diamond has more now from Washington.
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: While with just 10 days until the United States could potentially default on its obligations, President Biden and speaker Kevin McCarthy emerging from their meeting on Monday, both calling it a productive meeting. But no specifics in terms of what kind of progress was actually achieved during a meeting that lasted more than an hour in the Oval Office on Monday.
 
In fact, both sides are clearly still very far apart on some of the major points of discussion here in terms of the spending caps, for example. How long and at what level will those spending caps be set, both sides so far appear to be very far apart. And I also got to ask the Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy about something that President Biden raised at the beginning of that meeting and that is that the President wants revenue increases to be on the table, closing tax loopholes for example.
 
I asked the speaker if that's on the table for him, the speaker was very direct. And he said no, that is off the table for him in terms of discussions. He wants to cut spending. And that's where he thinks the focus should be. He also said that cuts to defense spending are off the table. Something that the White House had also raised. And so, it's clear that there's still a very big gulf between these two sides.
 
Nonetheless, the speaker saying that the tenor of the meeting was more productive and more conducive to reaching an agreement that at any point in the discussions that we've seen over these last three weeks. But the clock is clearly ticking. And the Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen on Monday reiterating her assessments that the United States default would likely come in early June.
 
She says "We estimate that it is highly likely the Treasury will no longer be able to satisfy all of the government's obligations if Congress has not acted to raise or suspend the limit -- the debt limit by early June and potentially as early as June 1st."
 
The Secretary said in the letter last week to congressional leaders that she viewed that timeline as likely. So, moving that confidence level up to highly likely only increasing the pressure on the White House and those Republican lawmakers were negotiating this deal to actually get there. Jeremy Diamond, CNN, the White House.
 
CHURCH: Joining me now from Los Angeles is Michael Genovese. He is a political analyst and president of the Global Policy Institute at Loyola Marymount University. A pleasure to have you with us.
 
MICHAEL GENOVESE, POLITICAL ANALYST: Great to be back, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: We are just nine days away from America possibly defaulting on its national debt if President Biden and Kevin McCarthy can't strike a deal to raise the debt limit.
 <br>[02:05:05]
 
We're hearing that progress was made in those talks on Monday but it's still only nine days to make a deal. Get it written up as a bill and pass through both the House and Senate by June 1st. Is that even possible at this juncture?
 
Well, we're cutting it down to the wire and things are getting hotter than lava in Washington, because the two sides are still apparently quite far apart. Both sides know the seriousness of this. But that doesn't mean that they're going to be able to make a deal. And this is unusual, because it's a manufactured crisis. Since 1960, we've raised the debt ceiling over 90 times, under Democrats, Republicans with little debate and little controversy.
 
We did it three times during the Trump years. So, why now? What's the -- what's the magic of now that we're coming to this crisis that could just send us over a cliff? The problem is that the Republicans want to conflate apples and oranges, debt and budget. The Democrats want to separate those two things because they're separate. And so, therein lies the rub. So, who's going to be the adult in the room? Who is going to save us from ourselves? That's the question.
 
CHURCH: And if this country defaults on its national debt, because U.S. politicians essentially failed to do their job, which Americans will be hit hardest do you think?
 
GENOVESE: Well, you know, we've never failed to pay the debt. And so, this is unknown territory. We do know that there will be some serious consequences mostly for people on social security, government services, the military, who may take weeks to get their paycheck until it gets sorted out. And so, at a time when the U.S. economy is actually quite robust, the economist in England just had a story celebrating the strength of the U.S. economy, in which they said that the U.S. accounts for 58 percent of the gross domestic product of the G7 nations, just the United States.
 
And that's up from 40 percent in 1990. And so, why mess with success? I think the problem is that it's -- the two sides facing the 2024 election, one side doesn't want the economy to be so good. And so, they're willing to take that risk. And so, it's time to put up the bad signal and sort of like a fire underneath both sides.
 
CHURCH: And Michael, at what point will it be too late to act? And if that happens, what will default look like for this country's people and of course, its economy?
 
GENOVESE: We have two weeks, maybe a little more, if we're lucky. That's cutting it very close. Because average citizens are going to suffer tremendously, the bond market will suffer -- the stock market will go down. In 2011 when we got close to this, the stock market went down almost 20 points. And we didn't hit the crisis, we didn't default. If we go into default mode, the rest of the world is going to know that we're not good for our word, we're not good to pay our debts.
 
And that's going to have a ripple effect. It's going to be devastating for the American economy in the long run.
 
CHURCH: Do you see any place for President Biden to invoke section four of the 14th Amendment to the Constitution or perhaps is there any other option that could help bypass Congress if it fails to raise the debt limit in time?
 
GENOVESE: It's funny how we've dusted off this obscure subsection of the 14th Amendment, which says that the validity of the public debt. And these are the four words that matter. Shall not be questioned. Powerful words, unambiguous intent, but the who and the how is not spelled out. And some legal scholars are now saying that the President does have this authority. I'm not so sure. I'm not completely convinced because it's an untested legal theory.
 
We've never been here before. And in 2011, when we got close under the Obama presidency. The Justice Department issued a ruling and which it recommended that, in fact, they do not believe the President has this authority. So, we don't really know. We don't know if the President can do this. There's no other option. Either you're going to default, you make a deal, or the President has to pull out these odd elements of the 14th amendment that may or may not be constitutionally valid.
 
CHURCH: Well, hopefully they make a deal and they make it fast. Michael Genovese, thank you so much for joining us and sharing your analysis. Always appreciate it.
 
GENOVESE: Thank you, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: A car crash near the White House late Monday night is now under investigation by the Secret Service. Officials say a moving truck slammed in to security barriers at a public square just across the street from the executive residence.
 <br>[02:10:05]
 
Authorities say the driver may have done it intentionally and he will be facing charges. No secret service or White House personnel were injured.
 
Writer E. Jean Carroll is seeking an additional $10 million from Donald Trump in punitive damages after he insulted her at the CNN Town Hall about two weeks ago, including calling her a "whack job." She has now asked a judge to amend her defamation case. Carroll was already awarded $5 million earlier this month after the former U.S. president was found liable for sexually abusing and defaming her.
 
Trump is appealing that verdict. CNN's Sara Murray has details.
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Columnist E. Jean Carroll is seeking even more and punitive damages from Donald Trump after his comments during a CNN Town Hall. Carroll asked a court on Monday to amend a defamation case against Trump to seek "very substantial punitive damages." Now, earlier this month, a jury in a civil case found Trump sexually abused and defamed Carroll, and they awarded her $5 million. Now Carroll also had a separate defamation case pending. This one sort of caught up in illegal log jam. And it's in this one that she's asking for more substantial damages after Trump made comments like this in the CNN Town Hall.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: They said he didn't rape her. And I didn't do anything else either. You know what, because I have no idea who the hell she is. 
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR: Mr. President, can I -- can I ask --
 
TRUMP: I don't know who this woman is. They said, sir, don't do it. This is a fake story and you don't want to give it credibility. That's why I didn't go.
 
COLLINS: One thing you -- one thing you did do in this.
 
TRUMP: And I swear -- and I've never done that, and I swear, I have no idea who the hell she is. She's a whack job.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MURRAY: Now in a court filing, Carroll's attorney said Trump's statements after the verdict in that civil suit show the "depth of his malice toward Carroll." A Trump spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Carroll's latest move. Sara Murray, CNN, Washington.
 
CHURCH: We are also learning Donald Trump who was interested in fighting the U.S. Justice Department subpoena that required him to return classified documents that he should not have had after his time in office. That's according to multiple sources familiar with notes taken by his lawyer and turned over to investigators. The notes provide more insight into Trump's thinking as the Special Counsel pursues its criminal investigation into the mishandling of classified materials and the possibility that Trump obstructed the investigation.
 
Earlier this month, he insisted he had the absolute right to take the documents and Trump's legal troubles don't stop there. Federal prosecutors with the special counsel's office have subpoenaed the Trump Organization, the information about its business deals with foreign countries according to sources familiar with the investigation. One source said investigators appear to be focused on Trump's dealings with countries that could possibly be interested in the classified materials recovered from Mar-a-Lago.
 
It's unclear when the subpoena was issued. The Trump Organization had said it would not strike new deals with foreign countries while Trump was in office.
 
Anti-Putin Russian fighters aligned with Ukraine a claiming responsibility for a rare ground attack inside Russian territory. The groups known as Freedom of Russia Legion and Russian Volunteer Corps say they liberated a settlement in the Belgorod region, which sits along the border with Ukraine. A Ukrainian official is acknowledging the operation but insists those groups were acting independently.
 
Regional governor says at least eight people were injured in the attack with shelling damaging several buildings.
 
And at this hour, a local official says counterterrorism operations in the Belgorod region are ongoing. The Kremlin spokesperson says forces are working to push out what he called a sabotage and reconnaissance group and claims the attack was meant to divert attention from the situation in Bakhmut. Over the weekend, the head of the Russian mercenary group, Wagner claimed his forces captured the city on the Eastern front lines.
 
But Ukraine's armed forces say the battle for Bakhmut is still ongoing. More now from CNN's Ferd Pleitgen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over): A rude awakening for Russians in the border area with Ukraine. Gunfire and explosions as two groups known as the free Russia Legion and the Russian volunteer corps. Russians fighting for Ukraine said they captured one village and entered another in the Belgorod region.
 
Today it's time for everyone to take responsibility for their future, one of the leaders says. 
 <br>[02:15:04]
 
It's time to put an end to the Kremlin's dictatorship.
 
PLEITGEN: He acknowledges the free Russia Legion are part of Ukraine security forces but says Ukraine has nothing to do with the incursion into Russia. Putin spokesman irate.
 
The purpose of the Ukrainian sabotage in the Belgorod region is to divert attention from the situation in the Bakhmut's direction he said. The raid spoils what was supposed to be Russia's big victory lap. Flanked by his mercenaries, Wagner boss Yevgeny Prigozhin claiming to have taken all of Bakhmut this weekend.
 
Today at noon at 12:00, Bakhmut has been fully captured he said. Shortly after Russian social media channels filling with pro-Wagner propaganda. Mercenaries screaming victory and celebrating with champagne showers.
 
But Ukraine's Deputy Defense Minister quick to deny the Russian claims.
 
HANNA MALIAR, UKRAINIAN DEPUTY DEFENSE MINISTER (through translator): The Ukrainian Armed Forces retain control of certain industrial facilities and private houses in the southwestern area.
 
PLEITGEN: From the air and from the ground, Bakhmut looks apocalyptic. Any strategic value the town may have had for the Kremlin laid to waste.
 
Ukraine's forces already fighting back. Making what they say have been significant gains. North and south of buff mood taking swathes of land back quickly. Bakhmut was supposed to be both strategic and symbolic for Russia and its fight for control of East Ukraine. But Wagner says their forces will withdraw on May 25th after months of ferocious fighting and countless dead.
 
The city will be placed under Russian military control whose commanders have done more withdrawing than advancing recently.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And still to come. Another strict new abortion measure becomes law in the United States. This time in Nebraska where the governor is hailing it as a significant conservative win. We'll explain how the law will work. We're back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:20:51]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Well, at a time when many Republican states in the U.S. are banning abortions, Nevada is moving to strengthen women's reproductive rights. The state legislature on Monday passed a bill that would protect out of state women seeking an abortion. It would also protect reproductive health care providers. The bill passed and the Assembly 27 to 14 and is now headed to the governor's desk.
 
Meantime, in Nebraska, the Republican governor signed a bill into law that bans abortions after 12 weeks of pregnancy and restricts gender affirming care for people younger than 19. The bill passed the state's Republican-controlled legislature last week in a 33 to 15 vote. The governor hailed it as a significant win for conservatives.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. JIM PILLEN (R-NE): Today is an extraordinary historic day for the state of Nebraska. It's a day where it's really simple. We're standing up to protect our kids so that our state has a bigger and brighter future. That will be 574. It's the most significant win for social conservative agenda and over a generation of say Nebraska.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Joining me now from Philadelphia is Lindy Li. She is a political activist and women's co-chair at the Democratic National Committee. Thank you so much for being with us.
 
LINDY LI, POLITICAL ACTIVIST: Thank you so much for having me, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: On Monday, Nebraska's governor signed a bill banning most abortions at 12 weeks. The move comes a week after North Carolina did the same and South Carolina's House passed a six-week abortion ban just as Florida had last month. So, all this comes in the lead up, of course to the 2024 presidential election, but also at a time when polls show that most Americans want women to have access to safe and legal abortions.
 
How big an issue might this become in the election do you think? And will Republicans propose a national abortion ban? Do you think that is in the pipeline?
 
LEE: Rosemary, it's going to be a tremendous issue. And in fact, Mike Pence to your question, he already proposed a national abortion ban. So, it's extraordinarily extreme. And it blows my mind that Republicans continue to double down on deeply unpopular abortion bans. In fact, last week, Trump even bragged that he was the one who ended Roe v. Wade.
 
They are beholden to their extremist primary base and turning off independence that they need to win in the general election. This is why (INAUDIBLE) Redway last year became basically a pink triple. And Nebraska Republicans had initially tried to be an abortion at six weeks rather than the 12 they settled on. And they -- but they fell short by single vote and they call that a so-called compromise.
 
CHURCH: Yes. Some valid points. And Lindy, according to various reports after Roe v. Wade, was overturned last year by the Supreme Court and with so many states banning abortions, some women are so worried that they are choosing permanent sterilization rather than risk getting pregnant and not being able to get a legal and safe abortion if necessary. What are you able to tell us about this very drastic trend?
 
LI: It's devastating, Rosemary. No one should be pushed to that point, no one should be pushed to the point of sterilization. No one should be pushed to having to travel 1300 miles on average just to get an abortion. I'm talking about women who use a service that helps women access abortions. And the average travel expenses for clients of this organization is $1,400. No one should have to pay that much money just to have a modicum of control over their own bodies. 
 
And not only are Republicans spanning abortion, but they're making it even harder for women to travel. One thing we should know is Virginia will soon become the last southern state without abortion restrictions. And this is all part of a trend. This is not -- cannot be viewed in isolation. They're trying to get rid of no-fault divorce.
 <br>[02:25:03]
 
In Florida they're banning girls from even talking about periods in their school. They're restricting sex ed, they came out against the Violence Against Women Act. So, you're left with the conclusion that the GOP is driven by misogyny and a desire to regulate every aspect of women's lives and bodies.
 
CHURCH: And Lindy, Americans talk a lot about how important it is to enjoy freedom in this country. And they don't like government interference, particularly when it comes to their guns. But when women's bodies and their right to choose are involved, government interference appears to be totally acceptable. Why is that? Can you explain this to our international audience, particularly why that contradiction exists in this country?
 
LI: Isn't it baffling? It just doesn't make any sense. With Republicans, once you're out of the womb, you're totally on your own. But when you're in the womb, they want to do everything to regulate you. And I do want to point out that we have a very powerful voice on this issue. Vice President Kamala Harris has spoken to your point about the value of protecting freedom. Real freedom is being able to decide what you can do with your body.
 
Real freedom is deciding when and if you're going to have a child and she has been especially strong on medication, abortion. The vast majority of Americans approve of it. And we have a rogue judge out of Texas doing everything he can to ban abortion pill. And now it's percolating in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals which is known to be extremely conservative.
 
CHURCH: So, when you look forward to the election, what do you think is likely to happen in terms of women's rights and women's access to abortion?
 
LI: I think people are going to realize that this has wider ramifications even beyond abortion. Several Republican states are suffering an exodus of doctors and medical professionals, as a result of these abortion bans. In fact, two Idaho hospitals have stopped delivering babies all together. This will lower the quality of health care for everybody across the board and not just for women.
 
If you're not a woman of childbearing age and you think you won't be personally impacted by this mass exodus of doctors from public and states think again, everyone will suffer and it's happening right now. And I know that Americans will experience it for themselves and this will be reflected at the ballot box in November.
 
CHURCH: Some powerful messages there. Lindy Li, thank you as always for joining us. Appreciate it.
 
LI: Thank you so much, Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: Sixteen years after Madeleine McCann disappeared, investigators are once again combing for evidence to find out what happened to the British toddler.
 
We'll explain what sparked the new search.
 <br>[02:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: 16 years after British toddler Madeleine McCann disappeared without a trace from a hotel room in southern Portugal. A new tip has investigators from three countries searching once again. McCann was three years old when she vanished during a family holiday. Our CNN's Anna Stewart reports that new tip came from the same German prosecutor who has a long time suspect in custody. ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: A new search, 16 years on from the disappearance of Maddie McCann. Her parents marked her 20th birthday just a few days ago, pledging that they would never give up. It's unclear why this new search has been ordered now, but here's what we know. The reservoir in woodland area is around 30 miles from Praia da Luz when Maddie McCann went missing back in 2007. Now, the body of water there was searched with divers back in 2008. That was the year after Maddie went missing. That search found animal remains and a sock unrelated to the case.
 
Sources have told CNN affiliate, CNN Portugal that this time the search is going to focus on the land around the reservoir not in the water. According to CNN Portugal, the tip off for this search came from the German prosecutor's office. They have in their custody Christian Bruekner, a convicted rapist and pedophile and an official suspect in the case. He lived in the Algarve between 1995 and 2007. He denies having anything to do with McCann's disappearance. Now, as you can see here, police have already started erecting tents in the area around the reservoir and the search is due to begin Tuesday, Anna Stewart, CNN, London
 
CHURCH: And still to come, typhoon Mawar has strengthened to the equivalent of a category four hurricane with a direct hit on Guam still possible. We will have the latest from the CNN Weather Center.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Typhoon Marwa has strengthened to the equivalent of a strong category four hurricane as it approaches Guam. It's expected to move near or over the island in the coming hours. And could grow stronger with sustained winds expected to approach 230 kilometers per hour. Meteorologist Britley Ritz is in the CNN Weather Center with the very latest. She joins us now. So, Britley, where's this typhoon right now and what's its trajectory?
 
BRITLEY RITZ, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Just a few hundred miles from Guam at the moment, Rosemary. And I want to show you this very clean eye on visible satellite. That's a good indicator that this whole system is really continuing to rapidly intensify. So, we may be dealing with a super typhoon here at the moment. A lot of deep convection around the center as well. Now, something else to note is that wobble back to the left, last hour, I mentioned that it moved to the right, it's moving back to the left.
 
So, there's still some uncertainty as to where this system may go. A little wobble makes a big difference. So, we still expect direct impact to Guam. And the last time that happened was back in 2018 was just a tropical storm. This has the capability of making landfall as a super typhoon. Right now, wind speeds 130 miles per hour, that's just 20 some odd miles per hour, shy of a Category five storm for the Atlantic Basin, based on the Saffir-Simpson Scale.
 
Gusts around the center 160, it is slow moving north at eight miles per hour. It's taking on warm ocean waters, I mean, we were talking about sea surface temperatures in the mid-80s, that's just fuel for the system. One thing we can hope for is that we get some upwelling as it slows down so, all of the cooler waters get pulled back to the surface. So, there's some sense in the way of getting some weakening but again very warm waters, very likely for it to happen. Over the next 24 hours, we can expect landfall sometime Wednesday with wind speeds of 145 miles per hour, Rosemary?
 <br>[02:40:05]
 
CHURCH: Unbelievable, those images --
 
RITZ: Yes.
 
CHURCH: -- from space too, wow. It's mind blowing, isn't it? Britley Ritz, many thanks for staying on top of all of that, appreciate it. Well, millions of people in central Mexico are being warned they may have to evacuate, due to increased activity from the country's most dangerous volcano. Ash has been spewing into nearby towns since last week, delaying flights in Mexico City and forcing dozens of schools to close. About 25 million people live within 60 miles of the volcano which is southeast of Mexico City. The volcano had been dormant for decades until it erupted in 1994 and it's been rumbling ever since. The U.S. Embassy has issued a travel advisory for the area. And thanks so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church, for our international viewers "WORLD SPORT" is next. And for viewers in the United States and Canada. I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM after break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Another Republican is entering the race for the White House, Tim Scott from South Carolina. The Senate's only Black Republican announced his candidacy on Monday. GOP front runner Donald Trump wishing Scott, good luck. CNN's Jeff Zeleny has details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SEN. TIM SCOTT (R-SC): My family went from cotton to Congress in his lifetime.
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): From cotton to Congress, those weighty words form the arc of Senator Tim Scott's rise and frame the argument for his presidential aspirations.
 
SCOTT: My grandfather said to me, son, you can be bitter, or you can be better. But you can't be both.
 
ZELENY (voiceover): As he opened his Republican campaign for the White House today in his native South Carolina. Scott made clear his biography is his message. An optimistic vision for America, he said, is shaped from opportunity, not oppression.
 
SCOTT: This isn't just my story, it's all of our stories.
 
ZELENY (voiceover): It's his story that Scott believes sets him apart from a growing field of contenders. He's the son of a single mother, who he invited on stage in North Charleston,
 
SCOTT: Thank you for standing strong in the middle of the fire.
 
ZELENY (voiceover): And praise her guidance through a challenging childhood and for believing in him when he didn't yet believe in himself.
 
SCOTT: We live in the land where it is absolutely possible, for a kid raised in poverty, in a single parent household, in a small apartment, to one day, serve in the people's house, and maybe even the White House.
 
ZELENY (voiceover): Today at 57, he's the only Black Republican in the Senate, and the only African American to serve in both chambers of Congress. He was elected to the House in 2010 and appointed to the Senate two years later by then Governor Nikki Haley.
 
NIKKI HALEY, FORMER GOVERNOR OF SOUTH CAROLINA: It is very important to me as a minority female that Congressman Scott earned this seat.
 
ZELENY (voiceover): Who is now a rival in the GOP primary. Scott won a special election for a Senate seat in 2014. He was elected again in 2016 to a full term and in 2022 seized reelection in a landslide. If elected, Scott could also be the first unmarried president since Grover Cleveland. Along the way his faith has been a central tenet.
 
SCOTT: People will say that our message is naive, that our faith is foolish, but they don't know who they're talking to. Conservatism is my personal proof, there is no ceiling in life.
 
ZELENY (voiceover): As he presented himself as a candidate offering optimism over anger, and hope over grievance. And race is pivotal to his message, using it as shield and sword. And as a warning to Democrats.
 
SCOTTS: I'm the candidate the far left fears the most. When I cut your taxes, they called me a prop. When I refunded (PH) the police, they called me a token. I disrupted their narrative, I threatened their control, the truth of my life, disrupts their lives.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ZELENY (on camera): Senator Scott did not mention any of his rivals by name including the front runner former President Donald Trump. But he did remind Republican voters that they do face a choice in this primary. He framed it as grievance or greatness. Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Washington.
 
CHURCH: Facebook's parent company Meta says a record setting fine by the E.U. is unjustified and sets a dangerous precedent. A $1.3 billion fine is the largest ever issued by the European Data Protection Board. It says, Meter broke E.U. privacy laws by transferring the data of Facebook users from Europe to the United States. Meta says data must be allowed to cross borders for the Internet to work. It plans to appeal the E.U.'s decision. An image of an explosion at the Pentagon found its way onto the International News Networks and caused the stock market to dip, but there was no explosion at the Pentagon.
 
This image is a fake, an artificial intelligence appears to be the culprit. Despite what you see, there was no explosion and the building shown is not the Pentagon. Twitter has sent suspended the account that first posted the picture. Or meantime, tick tock has sued the U.S. state of Montana over its new law that will ban video sharing, or meantime TikTok has sued the U.S. state of Montana, over its new law that will ban the popular video sharing app starting next year.
 <br>[02:50:12]
 
TikTok says the move violates the U.S. constitution and other laws. Last week, Montana became the first U.S. state to ban the platform entirely, mandating a daily $10,000 fine on the company or app stores that make it available to personal devices within its borders. Critics fear personal data collected on the Chinese owned app could end up in the hands of China's government, acclaim TikTok rejects. Well, Disney is undergoing its third round of layoffs this year, more than 2500 jobs will be asked in the latest wave.
 
It's part of a cost cutting initiative by CEO Bob Iger, who's trying to save five and a half billion dollars. This year's cuts have hit Disney's entertainment unit as well as parks experiences and product divisions. And they'll add up to about 3 percent of the company's global workforce. An Idaho judge has entered not guilty pleas for the man accused of killing four university students. Bryan Kohberger acknowledged that he understood the charges but stayed silent when the judge asked for his plea. CNN's Jean Casarez reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOHN C. JUDGE, JUDGE, LATAH COUNTY, IDAHO DISTRICT COURT (voiceover): Count one burglary, count two murder in the first degree, count three murder in the first degree, count four murder in the first degree, count five murder in the first degree. OK, Miss Taylor, is Mr. Kohberger prepared to plead to these charges? 
 
ANNE TAYLOR, ATTORNEY OF BRYAN KOHBERGER: Your honor, we will be standing silent.
 
JUDGE: OK, because Mr. Kohberger is standing silent, I'm going to enter not guilty pleas on each charge.
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Bryan Kohberger appearing in an orange jumpsuit, only answering to yes or no questions during his arraignment in an Idaho court.
 
JUDGE: Anything you do say other than your lawyers could be used against you, against you in court proceedings. You understand that?
 
BRYAN KOHBERGER, ACCUSED MURDERED OF KILLING UNIVERSITY STUDENTS: Yes, I do.
 
JUDGE: Do you understand these rights?
 
KOHBERGER: Yes. JUDGE: Any questions about the rights?
 
KOHBERGER: No.
 
CASAREZ (voiceover): The 28-year-old quietly following along and glancing at his attorney. As the judge read through the charges.
 
JUDGE: Do you understand the maximum penalty?
 
KOHBERGER: Yes.
 
CASAREZ (voiceover): Prosecutors say, Kohberger entered an off-campus house at the University of Idaho in November of 2022, and stabbed four students to death. Kaylee Goncalves, Maddie Mogen, Xana Kernodle and Ethan Chapin. He could face the death penalty if found guilty. It was mailed DNA found on a K-bar knife sheath, discovered at the murder scene linked through genetic genealogy. Multiple sightings of white Hyundai Elantra from surveillance videos. Cell phone tower data to put Kohberger near the student's home at least 12 times before the murders. And comparison DNA testing of trash outside of Kohberger's family home, that eventually led to his arrest.
 
Body cam video later release show that Kohberger had been pulled over for an unrelated incident, as he drove cross country after the murders. Kohberger's trial has been set for October 2nd and is expected to last six weeks. While there is no word on Kohberger's defense. His attorney recently told the judge their investigator found information favorable to the defense known only to surviving roommate Bethany Funke. She has agreed to speak with the defense. And while indictment documents have been unsealed, investigators are still searching for a motive. Jean Casarez, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: The Denver Nuggets are heading to the NBA finals for the first time in the franchise's 47-year history. They beat the Los Angeles Lakers 113-111 in game four on Monday, sweeping all four games. The Nuggets were able to stop Lakers superstar LeBron James from tying the game twice late in the fourth quarter. Two time Most Valuable Player Nicola Jokic got 30 points, 14 rebounds and 13 assists. After the game LeBron hinted at an uncertain future for himself.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
LEBRON JAMES, LOS ANGELES, LAKERS FORWARD: We'll see what happens going forward but I don't know -- I don't know, I got a lot to think about to be honest -- I got a lot to think about to be honest and, this will be personally going forward the game of basketball, a lot to think about.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:55:10]
 
CHURCH: The Nuggets will play the winner of the Boston Celtics, Miami Heat series in the NBA Finals. Miami leads that series three games to zero. Game one is scheduled for June first. Wedding bills could soon ring the billionaire Jeff Bezos, a source tell CNN the Amazon founder is now engaged to his partner, philanthropist and former broadcast journalist Lauren Sanchez. The couple first went public with their relationship in 2019. Bezos was previously married to MacKenzie Scott for 25 years. Sanchez was also married before, there's no word yet on when Bezos and Sanchez will tie the knot. And thanks so much for your company, I'm Rosemary Church, I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM after a short break. Do to stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:00:00]