Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Alleged Drone Attack in Kremlin; King Charles III`s Coronation. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired May 05, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello lovely people. It`s Friday, Friyay, hope the fourth was with you yesterday, wishing you a happy Cinco de Mayo today. 
 
 I do want to apologize though, I forgot about Your Word Wednesday, reporting from Miami everything was a bit higgledy-piggledy. So today I 
 
 promised to work something you posted on my social media into this show.
 
I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. And we start with the alleged drone attack on Russia`s Kremlin. The Kremlin is a complex located in the center of Moscow, 
 
 and it`s often used to refer to the Russian government.
 
Check out this video, appearing to show two drones flying towards the Kremlin early Wednesday morning, exploding on its dome. Russia claims 
 
 Ukraine sent the drones to kill Russian President Vladimir Putin. They say nobody was killed or injured in the alleged attack. And the Kremlin 
 
 spokesperson says Putin wasn`t in the building. Here`s Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, responding to these allegations.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT:  We don`t attack Putin or Moscow. We fight on our territory. We`re defending our villages and cities. We 
 
 don`t have, you know, enough weapon for this.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Now, Russia then claimed that the United States was involved in the attack. But on CNN, John Kirby, the Coordinator for Strategic 
 
 Communications at the National Security Council in the White House, denied U.S. involvement and accused President Putin spokesperson of lying.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COMMUNICATIONS COORDINATOR:  I would just tell you Mr. Peskov`s lying. I mean, it`s obviously a ludicrous claim. 
 
 The United States had nothing to do with this. We don`t even know what happened here. Kaitlan. But I can assure you, the United States had no role 
 
 in it whatsoever.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  U.S. officials have also said they were still assessing this incident and had no information about who might have been responsible if 
 
 there was an attack.
 
Ten second trivia.
 
Charles III is now the King of the United Kingdom. But who`s next in line for the throne?
 
Prince Harry, Prince William, Prince George or Princess Charlotte?
 
Prince William, the eldest son of King Charles is on deck to be the next king.
 
Earlier in the week, we told you about the big event happening this Saturday at Westminster Abbey in London, the coronation of King Charles III 
 
 and his wife Camilla, Queen Consort.  Charles III has been the heir to the British throne for 70 years but ever since his Mother Queen Elizabeth II 
 
 passed away in September. Preparation for this historic event has been in overdrive expect lots of pomp and circumstance and his highly anticipated 
 
 tradition.
 
But things have changed quite a bit since Queen Elizabeth`s coronation way back in 1950s, the new leader of the British monarchy is facing a 
 
 completely different Britain and with changes in societal demographics, minority ethnic groups rising and more religious diversity in the nation. 
 
 Questions have been raised about the relevance of the monarchy in today`s modern U.K. Our Bianca Nobilo has more for us from London.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And heavier indeed for the revelers who welcome Britain`s coronation here in Piccadilly.
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN CORRESPONDENT &amp; ANCHOR:  The longest interlude between two coronations in British history. Decades of demographic, religious and 
 
 societal change, raising questions about the relevance of the monarchy today, 1953 was full of post-war joie de vivre and excitement about a new 
 
 young queen.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  They`ve come to seek work in Britain.
 
NOBILO:  Despite waves of historic migration, Britain in the 1950s was overwhelmingly white, Christian and divided along class lines in society 
 
 and the halls of power. Today, three of the four great offices of state including the Prime Minister are from minority backgrounds, 20% of the 
 
 population today are from ethnic minority backgrounds too and rising, many from countries subject to exploitation in the former British Empire.
 
BIDISHA MAMATA, COLUMNIST:  The monarchy itself has to find a respectful and humble place for itself without pretending that it doesn`t have all of 
 
 its privilege, all of its history and all of its baggage.
 
NOBILO:  Though crumbling slowly after the Second World War, Britain was still stratified along class lines in the 1950s.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  German tales denote rank, a duchess for example wears Rose.
 
NOBILO:  Modern Britain is in many ways allergic to the idea of inherited privilege. Society at least strives to be egalitarian. But a recent poll 
 
 commissioned by the BBC, Britain`s National Broadcaster suggests that King Charles might have a problem appealing to young people, 38% of whom said 
 
 that they would support an elected head of state and indifference might be a problem too, 78% said they weren`t interested in the royal family.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I think it`s definitely time to rethink and I know a lot of people loved Queen Elizabeth. And I don`t think that same fondness 
 
 is there for King Charles.
 
NOBILO:  The monarchs since the 16th century is also titular head of the Church of England. In 1953, the majority of the country was Christian. 
 
 Today, it is half that with the number of non-religious and non-Christian faiths rising each year with multi-faith leaders playing a role in the 
 
 coronation for the first time.
 
King Charles, who has declared himself to be defender of all faiths was honored here at Britain`s largest mosque ahead of the coronation. So could 
 
 this be an opportunity for all communities in Britain to come together?
 
SABAH AHMEDI, IMAM:  Within Islam, we`re taught that part of your faith is loyalty to your nation. And we also know that the coronation is part of the 
 
 history of this nation, and our citizens, we respect that history.
 
NOBILO:  The coronation is a litmus test for how King Charles will be received by 2023 Britain and whether enthusiasm, apathy or opposition to 
 
 the monarchy will shape his reign.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  The Met Gala, the annual fundraising gala benefiting the Metropolitan Museum of Art`s Costume Institute in New York City, has 
 
 traditionally been timed to mark the opening of its annual fashion exhibition. Well, today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the cockroach who 
 
 crashed the red carpet. Jeanne Moos has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEANNE MOOS, CNN NATIONAL NEWS CORRESPONDENT:  With so many celebs at the Met Gala dressed up like designer Karl Lagerfeld`s cat, it`s a wonder a 
 
 cockroach dared to scurry up the red carpet.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  No.
 
MOOS:  But there it was getting treated like a celebrity.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Get a photo. Kevin gets a photo.
 
MOOS:  Variety captured a Getty photographer blinding the roach with his flash, a roach that made people which called it The Surprise Star of the 
 
 2023 Met Gala. Others called it best dressed. It arrived fashionably late, showing up before the last guest Rihanna. Naturally, someone had to ask 
 
 about its outfit.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  What are you wearing?
 
MOOS:  But fashion was a subject this roach wouldn`t broach, it disappeared only to reappear on the banister. You`d think it was a raft instead of a 
 
 roach, the way the crowd reacted. Photographer Kevin Mazur at one point jokingly pretended to stomp on it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  No.
 
MOOS:  Then accidentally kicked it around but that didn`t stop it. And then Variety tweeted out the alarming news. It is with deep sadness that we must 
 
 report the Met Gala cockroach was stepped on. And thus does a join other bug.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s coming from the health sector. Holy, I just swallow the bee.
 
MOOS:  That have given their lives so very publicly.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Nice.
 
MOOS:  We will remember you; you fleet footed fashionista with panache smashed on the red carpet.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Poor fella, rest in pieces. No time for melancholy though. It`s a fantastic Friday and today`s winners for Your Word Wednesday vocabulary 
 
 submissions are @Kara J. Cochran in Villa Madonna Academy. Melancholy, a noun or adjective meaning a feeling of pensive sadness. And Mr. Veces (ph) 
 
 and Mrs. Schweitzer`s (ph) class at Bridge Valley, their word was Higgledy- piggledy, an adjunctive meeting involving confusion or disorder. Well done.
 
A special shout out is going to Jefferson High School in Sioux Falls, South Dakota today, we see you. This has been an awesome week and we`ve been 
 
 learning and laughing and uplifting each other. I want you to have an awesome weekend everyone to remember, you are more powerful than you know. 
 
 I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you.
 
END