Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Paul Beckett is Interviewed about Evan Gershkovich; Blame for Government Shutdown; Swift Expected to Attend Jets-Chiefs Game; Sen. Dianne Feinstein Dies at Age 90. Aired 8:30-9a ET

Aired September 29, 2023 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:32:42] 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back.
 
Today marks six months since "Wall Street Journal" reporter Evan Gershkovich has been detained in Russia. Moscow accuses him of espionage, something he and his employer vehemently deny. And the U.S. government has declared him to be wrongfully detained in Russia. A court ruled last month that he must stay in jail until the end of November. 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR: Now, Gershkovich is the first American journalist detained in Russia on espionage charges since the Cold War. His family joined Anderson Cooper for an exclusive interview last night.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELLA MILMAN, EVAN GERSHKOVICH'S MOTHER: Evan is an American boy who loves baseball, American food. He always would come home after his fancy trips and wanted to have a hamburger and buffalo wings and watch baseball and watch American football. He is an American boy with -- has roots in Russian culture. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: Joining us now is "The Wall Street Journal's" Washington bureau chief, Paul Beckett. He's been working with Evan's family, "The Journal's" attorneys and the U.S. government to get Evan released. 
 
Paul, I appreciate you time this morning. We appreciate your time this morning. I know this has been a very long and difficult six months for you, the entire organization, as well as the family. 
 
Your sense of where things stand right now as you guys continue to try and ensure Evan and his story are constantly taken notice of. 
 
PAUL BECKETT, WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF, "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL": Thanks very much, Phil. 
 
Yes, it's a tough day for Evan, for his family, for the journal, and for fans of press freedom everywhere, I think. 
 
The government here says it's, you know, engaged in an effort to try and bring Evan and other wrongfully detained people home. We would like to see more action. There was a partisan resolution released by the Senate last night, led by Senator Rich and Cardin, and calling for his immediate release and for the Biden administration to do more to bring Evan home and end this absurd situation. 
 
HARLOW: John Kirby, who, Paul, you know, is the National Security Council's coordinator for strategic communications, to your point about doing more, said the U.S. is engaged in, the words used are, "very active discussions" with the Russians working to try to secure Evan's release. 
 <br>[08:35:05]
 
Can you tell us what more you think they could do right now that they're not? 
 
BECKETT: We would just like to see them do everything they can. We appreciate the comments about they're do, you know, what they can. We would just like to see more. And we are going to say that until -- every day until Evan sets foot back in the United States. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. I also - I also, Paul, just wanted to show people, there's a really powerful letter from his family in the paper and on the website today, but this is - I still like papers. Paper papers. And this is "The Journal," right. So, the mast head - you see above the mast head and there's a QR code where everyone can scan it for not only to learn more about Evan and his journalism but ways that - that they can help. So, you guys are certainly keeping it in the fore. 
 
MATTINGLY: And, Paul, to that point, you know, Evan's journalism, ki don't want him to become, you know, just another name, just another person on this list. Talk to people about his work, what he was doing, including what he was doing when he was detained. 
 
BECKETT: As you heard from his mother, he's a sort of unique combination for a foreign correspondent of someone who is American and grew up here, but has very deep roots to Russian culture because his parents were Soviet immigraters to this country in the 1970s. So, he took to Russia a great sensitivity for Russian people, for Russian society, for Russian topics, you know, far beyond just covering the Kremlin or whatever else you'd expect a foreign correspondent to do over there. 
 
So, he loved listening to Russian punk bands. He watched Russian TV. He went -- played soccer over there. He really immersed himself in Russian life. And that comes through in his reporting. 
 
One of the most memorable pieces, I think, that he did that shows that was talking to Russian parents who were receiving the corpses of soldiers back from Ukraine. And that's just an angle that you don't see and really anybody but Evan couldn't have done such an amazing job in bringing to life. So, he was very much there because of his interest in and love of the country. MATTINGLY: Yes, he's an extraordinary talent and I would urge people,
 
 if you haven't, go read his work on "The Journal's" website. It just underscores, one, why it is so clear he's wrongfully detained, according to "The Journal," to his family, to the U.S. government, but also that talent itself and his love of the country that he was covering and is now detained by. 
 
Paul Beckett, we appreciate your time. Thank you very much. 
 
BECKETT: We appreciate yours. Thanks very much. 
 
MATTINGLY: Well, for more than 20 years, Jeison Aristizabel has been working to give young people with disabilities, like himself, a brighter future. In 2016 he became the first CNN Hero of the Year from Latin America. Since then he has built a brand-new rehabilitation center in Cali, Columbia, and has graduated from law school. Now, his organization has realized yet another big dream. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEISON ARISTIZABAL, 2016 CNN HERO OF THE YEAR (through translator): Today we have the first university in Latin America for young people with disabilities. Right now the university has started its first year with 300 students. It has all the equipment so that people with disabilities can study in an accessible way. We have ocular technology for example. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I want to be a data engineer.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): And help the community.
 
ARIStIZABAL (through translator): The foundation is changing the concept of the word "disability" understanding that they can, that they're capable.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: For the full story and to see all the ways that Jeison is transforming lives, just go to cnnheroes.com. 
 
Congress careening toward a government shutdown. Who does the public think is at fault? Harry Enten has the latest polling. 
 
MATTINGLY: And Taylor Swift is so powerful that people are willing to pay the New York Jets -- that's cold, man -- to go to Jets games because she may actually be at the game this weekend. We're going to tell you how high prices are getting. That's ahead. 
 
Harsh. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:42:09]
 
HARLOW: This morning we are learning new disturbing details about the killing of a Baltimore tech executive and the suspect in her murder. Court documents show that 26-year-old Pava LaPere died of strangulation and blunt force trauma. Police say she was killed last Friday but she was not discovered until Monday. That's when they found her body lying on a roof. Officials say surveillance video shows the suspect, Jason Billingsley, following LaPere home. He pretended he forgot his keys to the building and she let him in. Documents also show that Billingsley allegedly raped a woman, slashed her throat and then set her and her boyfriend on fire September 19th, just three days before killing LaPere. Officials say that is when investigators began tracking Billingsley. He was arrested on Wednesday. 
 
MATTINGLY: Also this morning, a new warning about a popular weight loss drug. The Food and Drug Administration now acknowledging reports of blocked intestines in people using the diabetes drug Ozempic. The FDA updated the label of the medication this week warning users of possible intestinal blockage. The warning was already on the label of Ozempic's sister drug, Wegovy, which is approved for weight loss. Both drugs have soared in popularity recently. Ozempic's manufacturer, Novo Nordisk, said in a statement, they stand, quote, "behind the safety and efficacy of Ozempic and all of our medicines when used consistent with the product labeling and the approved indications." The company went on to say they are working closely with the FDA to continuously monitor the safety profile of its medications. 
 
HARLOW: Congress likely heading to a government shutdown tomorrow. The American people will have to live with the effects. What does the public think in terms of who's at fault?
 
Joining us now at the wall, our senior data reporter, Harry Enten.
 
Who do they blame? 
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Yes, I think this one was a bit of a surprise to me given, I think, what the conventional wisdom is. 
 
So, there have been a number of polls on this. So, who would you mainly blame for a government shutdown? Actually, the plurality blamed Joe Biden and the Democrats in Congress at 39 percent, the GOP in Congress at 33 percent, both equally at 22. 
 
But in the two polls that I have seen when you combine Biden and the congressional Democrats, more voters blame them than blame Republicans in Congress. And that is very different than what we've seen in prior shutdowns. So, who is the public blaming for prior shutdowns? Republicans in '95, '96. Republicans in 2013. And Republicans in 2018- 19. So, this may be a shutdown that is quite different than that in terms of the public blame because at least at this point more Americans say they'll blame Biden and/or the Democrats in Congress. 
 
MATTINGLY: Harry, do people want their lawmakers to compromise or do they want them to hold firm when it comes to spending? 
 
ENTEN: Yes, so there's a bit of a split here. Congress persons who think like you should compromise to avoid a shutdown. Overall, 64 percent say that's what they want. Only 31 percent say they want their folks to stick to their principles. But look among Republicans, we have a dead split right here, 50 percent, 46 percent. [08:45:03]
 
And so I think that's a big part of what you're seeing in Congress right now with some Republicans wanting to compromise and some saying, no, you should stick to your principles.
 
But, of course, I don't think it's really that surprising that the two sides can't come to an agreement here because the fact is this has been a Congress in which nothing has gotten passed. Just 14 bills and resolutions. An all-time low since 1973. Normally through this point, the average is 70. So, a Congress that isn't getting anything done doesn't seem to be getting anything done once again. So, to me, not really much of a surprise at that point. 
 
MATTINGLY: Consistent though. 
 
ENTEN: Very consistent. I like consistency, Phil. But perhaps not in this case. 
 
MATTINGLY: Harry Enten, appreciate it, man. Thank you. 
 
ENTEN: Thanks.
 
MATTINGLY: Well, we all know Harry will be watching his Buffalo Bills this weekend, but will he also tune in to the Jets game on Sunday night? Not to watch the Jets. To see Taylor Swift potentially cheering on the Chiefs.
 
And after a huge loss against Oregon last weekend, Deion Sanders and his Colorado is facing another uphill battle. Can the Buffalos upset the USC Trojans? We're going to ask an expert. 
 
Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRAVIS KELCE, KANSAS CITY CHIEFS TIGHT END: Shout-out to Taylor for - for pulling up. That was pretty ballsy. That was pretty ballsy. Yes. I - I just thought it was awesome how everybody in the suite had nothing but great things to say about her. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: It is the mystery that continues to grip the nation, are Taylor Swift and Chiefs' star Travis Kelce actually dating? Well, the answer to that is still apparently anyone's guess. The pop star's simple presence at NFL games is already having an impact on ticket sales. 
 <br>[08:50:04]
 
After Swift's appearance in Kansas City last weekend, rumors of her possible attendance at this Sunday's game to see Kelce play the New York Jets has sent ticket prices soaring. The average cost for tickets to Met Life Stadium on Sunday are up more than 40 percent, from $83 to $119, proving once again that the economic impact of Taylor Swift is for real. 
 
Joining us is CNN contributor Cari Champion. 
 
I need - I need - I need to know where you are on this. Where -- just writ large. 
 
CARI CHAMPION, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: As in - at large. OK. Well, first and foremost, I will say this, I love that everyone doesn't really want to talk about it because they feel as if it's not interesting. But as I have said several times on this network, it's a scoch (ph) interesting. And it's - and the reason why it is, is because it's just pure, simple fun to see this Taylor Swift effect. 
 
Now, we didn't believe that they were dating. That's still a question mark. We have seen the photos of them hanging out post-game. But I feel like this is something that's really good for the league twofold. Twofold. We're getting more female fans watching the game. That's one thing. And the second thing is, isn't it just nice to enjoy some good old American dating? Isn't it nice to take a break from some things that just -- are just too - too - too heavy in life and this makes us feel good about it, is it not? I'm with this. I'm excited for it. I want it to happen. 
 
HARLOW: Can we talk - OK. First of all, we -
 
MATTINGLY: I am as well.
 
HARLOW: We have been talking about this every day on this program.
 
MATTINGLY: That's the right take, by the way. 
 
HARLOW: So, apparently people are interested in it. Phil Mattingly far more than I. 
 
I do love them both, though. I got to interview Travis Kelce's mom before the Super Bowl. So, I'm a big fan of his mom.
 
CHAMPION: I saw.
 
HARLOW: I'm a big Taylor fan. 
 
CHAMPION: I saw.
 
HARLOW: Can we move on to college football and Deion Sanders.
 
CHAMPION: Yes. Yes.
 
HARLOW: And what they're going to try to do this weekend, trying to get back on the right page after last weekend. Everyone - you know, he certainly thinks he's the best coach in college football. Let's remind everyone what he told "60 Minutes." 
 
CHAMPION: OK. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Who's the best coach in college football today? 
 
DEION SANDERS, COACH, UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO: Let me see - let me see a mirror so I can look at it. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You feel that? 
 
SANDERS: Well, you think I'm going to sit up here and tell you somebody else? You think - you think that's the way I operate, that somebody else got that on me? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW: So, Cari, does he do it this weekend, the team comes back? 
 
CHAMPION: No, no, they won't. They -- in fact, I can guarantee that they more than likely -- and I'll come on the show if I'm wrong -
 
HARLOW: OK.
 
CHAMPION: They more than likely will not win this game. But what I will say is, by saying he is the best coach in college football, Deion is essentially saying, I -- very similar to the Taylor Swift effect, the prime effect is real. College football ratings are up 14 percent. The fact that people are going to Boulder, Colorado, as the epicenter for college sports is something that you can't say normally happens. Perhaps Denver, yes, for the Broncos, but Boulder not so much. 
 
He's taken a team that won one game last season, one game, and they have been able to, within the first three weeks of college football, mark the highest ratings of a college football game because of prime. Because of what he believes in. 
 
And so when he says he's a great coach, he is a great motivator in that. Arguably the best that we've seen thus far. But I can't say that his team will beat USC. I think it's impossible because of the fact that they have a better personnel, especially that roster. 
 
MATTINGLY: And I think that's important for people to understand. What happened last week against Oregon and what's likely going to happen this weekend is not a reflection on whether or not he's a great coach or not. That's a -- reflection of personnel and reality. 
 
CHAMPION: Sure. 
 
MATTINGLY: I think the bigger picture of what's happened to that program, the attention that it's drawn, that, more than anything else, is what matters. 
 
CHAMPION: You are 100 percent correct, Phil. We haven't seen anything like it. There is a reason why there is a celeb list that is unheard of. You think of the likes of a Will Farrell, yes, he went to USC, but a Jay-z, a Snoop Dogg. You have actors who were coming out. Other professional athletes coming out just to essentially - and I don't know what a better way to say -- touch the hem of his garment, you know?
 
MATTINGLY: Right.
 
CHAMPION: He has a wonderful effect. 
 
MATTINGLY: All right, Cari, we've got some breaking news. We're going to turn to that. Thank you very much. 
 
And breaking news is what we want to discuss right now. 
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news. 
 
MATTINGLY: Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California has died. She was 90 years old. 
 
CNN's Lauren Fox is here with more. 
 
Lauren, what do we know at this point? 
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, we are still getting more information, Phil. But what we know right now is that Senator Dianne Feinstein, the longest serving woman in the U.S. Senate, she has passed away. Obviously, we are still getting details and gathering information about her passing, how it occurred. 
 
We've known for a long time that Senator Feinstein has struggled with several health issues, but she has continued to serve in her capacity, both as a senator and on the Senate Judiciary Committee, where her vote has been essential to moving forward with the Biden administration's judicial nominees over the last several years and last several months in particular. 
 <br>[08:55:13]
 
Senator Dianne Feinstein has a long legislative history and record, including the fact that she was the architect of the 1994 assault weapons ban. Fighting gun violence has been a key issue for Senator Feinstein over the course of her career. She was also the first woman to serve as the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. And she fought even against her Democratic colleagues to release details of the enhanced interrogation techniques that were used under the Bush administration, going toe to toe with the Obama administration in trying to get the public more informed about what had occurred during those years in the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 
So, obviously, she is someone who has a long legislative history, a long career. Someone who is, obviously, going to be very missed by her colleagues. But as I noted, she has been struggling with health issues over the last several months. She was absent from the Senate for many months as she fought shingles and complications from shingles. She returned to the Senate and had struggled at times with her role on the Senate Judiciary and Appropriations Committee. Specifically, a few months ago she was struggling, you know, to vote on a vote in the Senate Appropriations Committee. So, it is something that has come to pass, but we are still getting more details about Senator Dianne Feinstein's passing. Phil.
 
HARLOW: And, Lauren, thank you for the breaking news. Please stay with us as I believe we also have our colleague, Kasie Hunt, on the phone. 
 
Kasie, can you hear us? 
 
KASIE HUNT, CNN ANCHOR, "EARLY START" (via telephone): Hey, guys, yes, I'm with you. 
 
HARLOW: You know, you think about her service, 31 years in the Senate, elected in '92, longest serving woman senator ever. Lauren talked about the work that she did, really the architect of the assault weapons ban back in 1994. A huge voice as well when it came to the push to legalize gay marriage. As - we'll get to the health in a moment, but just help us remember the woman and the senator. 
 
HUNT: Absolutely, Poppy. 
 
I mean, I - you know, Lauren touched on this a little bit and I know, you know, Phil said (ph) this too, I -- you know, he and I often were in the halls together talking with Senator Feinstein. I think she really was a legend, an icon for women in politics. And she is someone who, you know, was breaking ground from the beginning when she was first working in San Francisco with Harvey Milk and some of the, you know, kind of original battles over rights for gay Americans. And, you know, she is somebody who had just an incredibly storied career from there, you know, rising to national prominence. 
 
And, you know, Lauren outlined a couple of the things that she really took the lead on. You know, I remember in particular her work on the intelligence committee and when she was focusing in on some of the things that had happened in the course of the Iraq War and how she really took that on in a way that took political courage at the time and really stood out and was very forceful in how she reconned that. 
 
But, you know, again, Poppy, I think she really blazed a trail at a time when there were not very many women role models in politics for others to follow. It was a very, very tough road for her in the beginning. And she is someone who, you know, Nancy Pelosi, for example, she would have been an example for Pelosi, also of San Francisco. 
 
And she did, of course, come in for some criticism from Democrats near the end of her life because she was grappling with those health challenges, as, you know, you're seeing a little bit of on your screen now here. But I do think that, on this particular day, you're correct to focus in on kind of what she meant in such a broad way to so many people. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. And the ground that she broke for so many people. 
 
Phil, you were the chief congressional correspondent. Just your thoughts on here. 
 
MATTINGLY: I mean, I think Kasie's point, I think your point, this is important here. There's been so much focus on health and the age and everything. People need to think about who the senator was. Obviously, passing away at 90. But not only was she a titan in the Senate, and kind of in a class of female legislators that changed the dynamic and the face of the institution as well in its entirety, over the course of her career, from when she was at the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, the first president of the board of supervisors. The reason she became mayor of San Francisco was because of the shooting death that included Harvey Milk, but also the mayor at the time, and her rise within San Francisco and to where she became such a powerful chair of multiple committees. We should focus on that. That is so much more important and so much more central to her career and to her life than I think what has been a difficult last couple of months. 
 <br>[09:00:07]
 
HARLOW: And the will, Lauren brought it up, and Kasie as well, of her during the Obama administration to say, no, the public needs to know what happened, and to push against some of those even in her own party with that torture report also speaks to that will. 
 
MATTINGLY: Right. You talk about legacy items and legacy issues. That is a central pillar of what will be remembered about her and what she did as a U.S. senator and as a legislator. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. And we thank her for her decades of service to this country. All our thoughts with her family. 
 
We will continue this breaking news coverage. The death of Senator Dianne Feinstein continues now with "CNN NEWS CENTRAL."