Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Police: 2 Dead, At Least 4 Injured In Atlanta Shooting, Suspect At Large; Atlanta Officials Give Update On Search For Shooting Suspect. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired May 03, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Welcome back. We continue to bring you the latest on a shooting in the downtown Atlanta area. One dead, four injured, three critical. Shooter still on the loose. Our Ryan Young has been covering the story and speaking to police sources. Ryan, what's the latest? 
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Jim, look, there's a lot to unravel here. Look, police are still looking for Deion Patterson, that's the man who apparently arrived to this complex -- that's right over here over my shoulder -- earlier today with his mother. Something went wrong during that evaluation. We are told he was a member of the military at one point. They were concerned about him and then the shooting started. 
 
We've also talked to other people who were nearby the scene, even a man who was confused with the shooter at one point and briefly detained and then he was told what exactly happened. He saw some of the nurses in tears after this shooting upset that some of their co- workers may have been involved in the shooting. We even heard in the last half hour or so there may have been shots nearby and of course we've seen police go to that general area. 
 
I can tell you as I've been talking to my sources, they don't believe right now that that is connected with this. So, you have a bustling city here, you may have different calls for service all happening at the same time. There is an active situation right now where they believe this carjacking that was nearby the scene could still be connected and they may know where this man is headed. This is an active manhunt. You had the surge of metro Atlanta with all the different agencies involved who are trying to figure out exactly where this man is. 
 
But what we know is that that initial surge stopped any more shooting from happening. That picture went up, the gray hoodie with the canvas bag showing this former military member with the bag that they believe the handgun was stuffed in and then that shooting and barrage started. Sadly, and unfortunately, we do know someone lost their life and other people are in critical condition getting treatment at Grady Hospital a level 1 trauma center here, the only one in the city of Atlanta. 
 
We've heard our sources and John Miller and everyone else talk about the idea of the video integration system that's here in Atlanta. All that has helped to be a force multiplier to get these images out there. And I can tell you right now, they are scouring through the video images to see if they can track this man's movement from the moment the shooting happened all the way to wherever he went to next. 
 
There is a building just on this side over here where the "WHOLE FOODS" is housed and of course there is condos up there as well. Initially someone thought maybe that parking garage was where the man was so then there were people there that were sheltering in place. Just in the last five minutes or so people that I know who live in the conned do area around here have been texting me to say they've been told they can now leave their building. So, there may be a softening of the perimeter at this point. 
 
But so many questions. Is the carjacking connected? Is the shots fired call that they believe that some people heard nearby is that connected as well? You can understand the 911 calls are coming because anybody who's seen in something similar to a gray hoodie and those dark pants have been having those 911 calls flow into the 911 center here in Atlanta. 
 
So, at this point right now, we've seen a softening of the perimeter here in Atlanta, in the Midtown area and there still remains an active scene in front of that hospital where the shooting occurred early this morning. And we do know the suspect's mother is actually involved in this because she has been cooperating with the police to try to give them some information about her son who we believe was a service member at some point and then something went to the side. 
 
So again, we've been tracking this and following it and keeping it and keeping in touch with our sources to kind of put this all together to figure out what may happen next. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Yes, and hopefully she is a wealth of information as they try to figure out what his next steps are and they try to keep people safe right now. As we're watching multiple people injured, some of them critical, one person declared dead there at the scene of this initial shooting. 
 
I do want to bring in -- bring back Andy McCabe. Andy, we're actually at this point awaiting the first press conference from the Atlanta police department. They've had assistance from U.S. Marshals, from troopers. There have been all sorts of different agencies who have been assisting them in this full surge of resources. But tell us what you are waiting to find out as we are here awaiting this first press conference. 
 
ANDY MCCABE, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, Brianna, I think the biggest question right now is how the police are looking at their search for the suspect. It sounds from all indications as we've discussed before and as Josh School mentioned, it looks like this is being converted into a manhunt. And so, that's really what I'm -- look to hear more about from local law enforcement at the presser.
 
But you're absolutely right, I'm sure any local law enforcement agency that's got resources to spare and share is doing that right now within RAMPA. [15:35:00]
 
So, it's all of the federal agencies that you can imagine, FBI, ATF, Marshals and then of course all the significant -- you know, you've a lot of really big robust police agencies in that area, in adjacent counties. You've got state police, Georgia Bureau of Investigations. So, there's a lot of resources that they can throw at this problem. 
 
And as we've just seen in Texas in the last day or so, that's how you find people, right? You work the technical means, you work the human means, which is talking to family members and relatives and targeting them in some ways with surveillance. But you need a lot of people to go out there and search these locations, respond to sightings as they come up, which they will continue to happen in great number over the next few hours. 
 
SCIUTTO: One development, Andy, in the last few minutes is that police have announced they will allow area schools to dismiss. They had held off for some time in light of the ongoing threat. They are now allowing those schools to dismiss. Would you? I asked you a similar question in the last hour. Would you, if you were in command of the situation allow that to happen if you believe the shooter was still in the area and still a threat to the area? 
 
MCCABE: No, of course not. You know, if you thought the shooter was nearby any of those schools and you weren't confident that that danger -- you could cover that danger, in other words, somehow you wouldn't. 
 
However, you know, these are schools with children who are probably petrified. I know all their parents are probably nervous and want their kids back. So, it's not like you can -- you know, it's not like an office building. You can leave it under a shelter in place forever. There's risks and costs on both sides. 
 
You could also use resources, police resources, to supervise the parents coming to pick up those kids to kind of be in the area to respond or at least present a presence that would discourage any offender from acting out in that area. But either way it's a risky thing to do if you think there's any chance that the suspect is in the area. 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST:  Another indication of where this investigation is apparently headed. Police opening up schools to let children out as we've heard from our reporters on the ground. A lightning of the police presence in downtown Atlanta as they search for 24-year-old Deion Patterson. A $10,000 reward now being offered for his capture. A man accused of opening fire at a medical center. There is his image. This is the man police are looking for. One person dead, four others injured as we anticipate a press briefing from law enforcement at any moment to update us on this case. Stay with CNN. We're back in just moments.
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) SCIUTTO: Joining in progress right now a press conference just begun
 
 with law enforcement and the mayor of Atlanta, Andre dickens. Let's listen in. 
 
MAYOR ANDRE DICKENS (D) ATLANTA: ... on this situation. I've spoken to the governor, to our Congressional delegation of Senators and Congress people as well as my office has been in touch with the White House. And as soon as possible I will be in touch with the families of the victims that are here. 
 
As you know, one is deceased and four are fighting for their lives at Grady Hospital and we're prayerful that they pull through. And as soon as possible I will reach out to them and to their families. All are women. 
 
And I am also making sure that you know that we are dealing with someone that is armed and dangerous. This is a deadly situation, this individual has just indeed conducted an act that we want to make sure that you know if you see him do not approach, that you are to call 911. 
 
We are also making sure that you know that law enforcement agencies across this region are working together. Law enforcement agencies of Fulton County, of city of Atlanta, of Cobb County, of our college campuses, our Atlanta public schools PD, a number of agencies are working in a consorted effort -- a concerted effort to work and to bring this suspect in and to make sure that we are all safe in the process. 
 
And so, I ask that, again, if you see the individual, that you have seen his face, you've seen his photo and his clothing, please, do not approach, but do call 911. 
 
So now I am very confident that the men and women of the Atlanta Police Department and the other local agencies are well-trained to make sure that we bring this individual to justice for situations just like this. So now I will turn it over to the chief Schierbaum to give you all the specific details about this incident and to let you know our pathway forward -- Chief. 
 
CHIEF DARIN SCHIERBAUM, ATLANTA POLICE: Thank you, mayor. Appreciate it. First of all, the Atlanta Police Department wants to extend its condolences -- for all members of the Atlanta Police Department, for those who lost their lives today. And we are working diligently to bring this individual into custody. 
 
We are looking for Deion Patterson age -- 24 years of age which we have given you his photo. And this is a very active search. We are following up on credible leads that are currently active in Cobb County as well as some that are right here in the city. 
 
We have been joined by multiple jurisdictions. We have the sheriff of Fulton County that is here right now that has been working alongside our department, Georgia's Tech PD, Georgia State University PD, Marta PD, The Georgia State Patrol, the GBI, FBI, the Secret Service as well as the Atlanta Public Schools Police are all actively searching as we speak for Mr. Patterson. 
 
And here's what we know. We'll be able to give you some information and others will be delivered as this investigation continues. 
 
At 12:08 this afternoon we were called just down the street to 1110 West Peach Tree, this is a medical facility. The North Side Hospital. It is at that location. This shooting did occur inside the waiting room of that medical facility where five individuals were shot. Unfortunately, a 39-year-old female has lost her life and of those that are injured is a 71-year-old female, a 56-year-old female, a 39- year-old female and then a 25-year-old female. 
 
We do know that Patterson -- Mr. Patterson, our suspect, left the building. 
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
We believe he car jacked a vehicle a short distance away and was able to flee the scene as the law enforcement agencies were descending on this area. And we believe he has left the area. He may not still be in that vehicle. So, I don't want everyone to be focused on the vehicle which has been recovered. 
 
So, the photograph that has been distributed for your viewers, your listeners to be very mindful of that photograph. If you see this individual who may or may not still be in the same hoodie, please call 911 right away or use Crime Stoppers to be able to provide an anonymous tip to where he may be. 
 
As the mayor said, we have a multijurisdictional effort under way to bring this individual to justice and ensure that we remove him from the street. Everyone considers him still armed and presenting a danger to whatever community he may find himself in at this time. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chief, how did this start? I mean, what preceded the shots? 
 
SCHIERBAUM: Now we're just hours into this investigation. So, investigators are behind us in the buildings talking to witnesses, processing the scene as we speak. The clarity that I think that we would want to know as a city and as a society we don't have any particular moment. But we will provide it as soon as we have it.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Were the victims' patients? Were these employees of North Side Hospital? 
 
SCHIERBAUM: That is still being worked through. We don't -- we weren't in a position at this time to say whether they're patients or this whether they're employees or both. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Did you say the car jacked vehicle (INAUDIBLE) recovered? 
 
SCHIERBAUM: We believe the vehicle has been recovered. That is correct.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Chief, can you confirm that the shooter's mother was one of the victims. 
 
SCHIERBAUM: Right now, the mother was not injured in this incident. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Can I ask you whether this was targeted. You know, you said all five victims were women. 
 
SCHIERBAUM: We just don't know. It feels too soon to know why these individuals were chosen. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Chief, can you confirm that the suspect's mother is talking to you, that she's been cooperative? 
 
SCHIERBAUM: The family is being cooperative with us and so have other witnesses at the scene. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have they shared anything about his mental health. 
 
SCHIERBAUM: Nothing we can reveal at this time. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Any priors with law enforcement?
 
SCHIERBAUM: There has been minimal contact with the Atlanta Police Department from this individual. I can report that.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where was the vehicle found?
 
SCHIERBAUM: I can't give that out right now. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Can you tell us about people calling in and giving tips and what that's been like so far. You pushed the image out early. What has that been like so far? 
 
SCHIERBAUM: You know, we can -- yes, -- thank you, mayor. The mayor has been watching this manhunt unfold at our command post and he is very aware that cameras across the city have been instrumental in us tracking this individual. He is very aware that as we get information that's called in by citizens, we're able to use the camera network to quickly go to that location even before officers arrive. So, it's helpful and we ask citizens to continue to do that. It's primary.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The $2000 reward, are you guys hoping that people will be a little more active in calling 911? 
 
SCHIERBAUM: We know it will be helpful. But I can tell you the civic minded citizens of this city are already responding even without that request for a reward they're already having calls that's coming in. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where are the (INAUDIBLE)?
 
SCHIERBAUM: We don't have that specific yet. It was on an upper level. I believe the 11th floor of the building. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Kara with Channel 11 --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You mentioned that the vehicle have been recovered. Is that the only vehicle involved in this incident or are there others? We're hearing from hospital workers that there was another car that may have been involved prior to the one that was recovered. 
 
SCHIERBAUM: Any vehicle we are confident in connecting to this crime we have released. As it changes, we may provide other vehicle information and we'll do that as quickly as we can. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Was the vehicle car jacked in the garage? 
 
SCHIERBAUM: It was not. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Requested last question.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do you have the gun that was used?
 
SCHIERBAUM: So, right now the gun is not in possession of law enforcement and we are actively looking for the gun as we are the individual. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And what does White House have to say?
 
DICKENS: The White House just offered up their support and wanted to know anything they could do to help in this situation and the White House is constantly in contact with my office to, you know, offer up support and see if we need anything. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The challenge of the initial response, Midtown, a high population density here, buildings have to be searched. What was it like initially with the shots -- you got a call, shots fired? 
 
SCHIERBAUM: Yes, I think the citizens of Atlanta saw their police department and our partner agencies in action. We went into that building and cleared every single floor. Even when information came about that the subject could have left, we were still searching for victims. We were assisting citizens out of the building that had taken shelter. I do want to thank everyone in Midtown that honored the shelter in place request for their patience to allow us to do our job. This is an urban environment so it does present challenges but it's challenges that you saw a collective robust response from law enforcement. But the camera network that's in the location was very helpful and did assist in the investigation. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where there (INAUDIBLE)?
 
SCHIERBAUM: Won't be able to give that information. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Was the shooting captured on the surveillance video. 
 
SCHIERBAUM: We don't give that at this time. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I thank you, everybody. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have Atlanta to be the latest city in this country touched by this kind of gun violence. SCHIERBAUM: I will say this, we have -- our public affairs unit has
 
 been pushing out quick information to you all. We will continue to do that. Follow our social media platforms and be in contact with our website. 
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
As soon as we have an update on information on vehicles, a new clothing description, you all will have it and the citizens of this city will have it. Thank you all.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you everybody, thank you.
 
KEILAR: All right, that is the first press conference that we have heard from authorities there in Atlanta following this shooting in Midtown Atlanta. That was chief Darin Schierbaum. And we're learning more about the victims here in this case. It's five of them, one who passed away at the scene. All of them women. The woman who died is 39 years old. The four who shot -- who were shot and injured and according to mayor Andre Dickens are fighting for their life, are 71 years old, 56, 39 and 25. So, quite an age span here of the women that were injured. 
 
And this happened in the waiting room. And part of the reason why we saw this lifting of this sort of tactical area there in Midtown Atlanta is because they believe that he carjacked a car right after the shooting and was able to get out of the area as authorities were starting to descend on the downtown area. It may not be in this vehicle that has at this point, they believe, been recovered. 
 
So, I want to go ahead now and get to Jonathan Wackrow who has been listening to the press conference along with us. Jonathan, what stood out to you? 
 
JONATHAN WACKROW, FORMER SECRET SERVICE AGENT: Well, what stood out to me was first how the mayor acknowledged damaged the threat, right? He said that this individual is someone who is armed and dangerous. But at the same time, he tried to reassure the public that law enforcement is working together in a unified fashion to resolve the situation. But he didn't shy away from asking for the public's assistance, right? And the public's assistance in this is going to be critical. 
 
Now we heard earlier, you know, all of the information that is coming in, how is it managed? The police chief talked about the response to the multijurisdictional effort that's being put forward. And all of that comes down to a coordinated effort put forth in an Incident Command Structure or ICS. All of the information from the initial incident, the initial shooting to all of the vectors of information that came in. Whether they're video, 911 calls, people walking up to police officers saying, hey, I think I see somebody over here. All of that information is centralized, analyzed and then in a coordinated fashion, officers are dispatched to that area. 
 
That ICS structure is essential when you -- now we believe that the crime scene has expanded significantly into another county, that is we are placing a lot more law enforcement resources toward this. But when you have this structure and you have this leadership in place, the quick resolution to this situation is almost guaranteed because all of the resources are working in unison. And I think that's what the mayor and the police chief were trying to convey in this -- in this news conference was reassuring the public that while there is a threat out there, there are resources that are dedicated to bringing it to resolution quickly. 
 
SANCHEZ: Jonathan, please stand by because we want to bring in Tyrisia Woods. She's actually inside the medical facility where shots were fired. And Tyrisia, I understand you also sent over some video of what you witnessed. Can you describe for us the moments you realized that something awful was happening? What was going through your mind? 
 
TYRISIA WOODS, HEARD GUNSHOTS (via phone): Well, of course, panic. Myself and my team heard the gunshots because we were two floors below where the actual active shooter was. Our first reaction was to just find safety and make sure our patients that were still there were also safe as well. 
 
So, we locked down our facility and we took cover by the police officer who actually came and escorted us out of the building that it was safely evacuated. 
 
SANCHEZ: And Tyrisia, I understand that you also heard the gunshots. Can you walk us through those moments? What the first thing that you thought it was and what officers told you once they arrived? 
 
WOODS: Well, I know it was a gun shot. Because I know what gunshots sound like. There were multiple, and I knew it was in the building. I alerted my front office staff that someone was shooting and right after that, one of our team members was alerted by another person in the building that there was blood in the elevator on our floor. So, that's when we locked our offices down and we just saw the police cars pulling up to the front of the building at that point and that's pretty much how it happened. 
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
Tyrisia, in the video you shared we see the police first responders there in -- well, military-style equipment, but I believe that's a police S.W.A.T. team there. How quickly -- how quickly did they arrive in the building? 
 
WOODS: Very fast. Within moments they were there. We watched them pull up in truckloads. They blocked the streets off. They took cover in the buildings and stairways. They did everything that they possibly could do at that point, you know. But as far as, like, the building security goes, I don't think that it's safe because we have active shooters in this town so often our buildings are locked down a lot because there are no metal detectors. Our security -- we don't have real police officers guarding and protecting our facilities. And with this being an ongoing thing in Midtown at all times I just really feel unsafe working, you know, in that area. Because I've been working in this building for almost five years, and this is the fourth active shooter that I've encountered since I've worked there. SCIUTTO: Jesus. It's shocking to hear I'm sure for people listening at
 
 home. Listen, we cover them every day, America has absorbed news like this every day. Tyrisia Woods, she was inside the facility when the shots were fired and among those who thankfully they were able to escape with their lives. 
 
KEILAR: And it's really -- listening to her describe them. I mean, she's just one of so many people in that area going through the terrifying experience there today in Atlanta. And it continues today because we have this suspect, 24-year-old Deion Patterson who is still at large at this point after one person killed, four people injured in the shooting in Midtown Atlanta -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: As we are learning from our reporters on the ground and as we just heard from the police, there is reason for people in the area to be concerned even as officers are attempting to reassure them. The suspect is considered armed and dangerous. Apparently opening fire inside a waiting room at this medical center where he was with his mother. She's now apparently cooperating with officers and they hope to have some answers soon as to his whereabouts. 
 
SCIUTTO: But they don't know. Carjacked, left the area. They have found the car. They have not found the suspect. 
 
KEILAR: And our thanks to everyone. "THE LEAD" continues with our breaking coverage right after this.