Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Social Media Star Crowned Slam Dunk Champ; Former U.S. President Carter Receiving Hospice Care At Home; Secretary Of State Blinken Meets With Chinese Counterpart; U.S. Warns Increased Military Support For Russia; Biden To Visit Poland As Anniversary Of Ukraine War Nears; More Than 40,000 Dead In Turkey; Norfolk Southern Railway CEO, Alan Shaw, Promises Support to East Palestine, Ohio Residents After Train Derailment Accident. Aired 7-8a ET

Aired February 19, 2023 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:00:02]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAC MCCLUNG, 2023 NBA SLAM DANK CHAMPION: So, a lot of gratitude. I had a lot of help, and the crowd was really amazing tonight. It was a blessing. It's really cool, man. I mean, I'll be able to tell my kids and brag about it one day, but, yes, the goal is to play in the NBA. I'm going to keep working every day. I'm very hungry and I'm resilient, so I'm going to keep working.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Michael Jordan, Kobe Bryant, Vince Carter, Mac McClung. How does it feel to have your name amongst those greats?
 
MCCLUNG: I don't think it's really set in yet. It's all been a blur. I feel like I was out there for 30 seconds and I'm back. But I'm grateful, man.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: Yes. And the three-point shootout was also awesome. Portland's Damian Lillard, like he does so often, coming through in the clutch to beat the pacers. Buddy Hield and Tyrese Haliburton in the finals to win his first three-point contest.
 
It was extra special for Lillard, too. Went to college here in Utah Weber State, wore his school jersey for the competition, so he was very pleased that he was able to come through and win that competition, guys. Main event tonight, the All-Star Game Team Lebron versus Team Giannis. They're going to draft the teams right before the game. Should be a lot of fun.
 
You can tune in, see it all on TNT starting at 6:00 Eastern.
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm still taken by McClung. I mean -- 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN ANCHOR: Yes.
 
WALKER: -- the reaction from people with his mouth, like, just gaping open was pretty priceless.
 
SANCHEZ: He looks like somebody I used to copy off of in math class in high school, and he does not look like a slam dunk champion.
 
WALKER: Right.
 
SANCHEZ: Incredible.
 
WALKER: Andy, thank you so much.
 
SCHOLES: That's what makes it awesome. Yes.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes.
 
WALKER: Why? What is he supposed to look like?
 
The next hour of CNN This Morning starts right now.
 
And good morning, everyone. Welcome to CNN This Morning. I'm Amara Walker.
 
SANCHEZ: Good morning, Amara. I'm Boris Sanchez. Former President Jimmy Carter is receiving hospice care at his home in Georgia. We'll tell you what we know about his condition and what his family is saying about the decision.
 
WALKER: Plus, a candid conversation? Secretary of State Anthony Blinken meets with his Chinese counterpart face to face for the first time since the U.S. shot down that Chinese spy balloon. What each side is now saying about that meeting.
 
SANCHEZ: Plus, days after that powerful earthquake in Turkey, people are still being pulled alive from the rubble of destroyed buildings. So look at some of these miraculous rescues coming up.
 
WALKER: And the CEO of the company that owns a train that derailed in North Palestine, Ohio, visited the community this weekend. His message to residents impacted by the accident, coming up on CNN This Morning.
 
SANCHEZ: Sunday, February 19th, a new week, and we are so grateful that you're starting it with us. Good morning. Great to be with you, as always, Amara.
 
WALKER: Yes. Good to see you, Boris. Good morning to you as well. We begin in Plains, Georgia, where the family of former President Jimmy Carter says the 98-year-old will begin receiving hospice care at his home. A peanut farmer and Navy lieutenant before going into politics, the Democrat eventually served one term as governor of Georgia and one as President of the United States from 1977 to 1981.
 
SANCHEZ: Yesterday, the Carter Center released a statement that reads, in part, quote, "After series of short hospital stays, former U.S. President Jimmy Carter today decided to spend his remaining time at home with his family and to receive hospice care instead of additional medical intervention. He has the full support of his family and his medical team." Carter, who turned 98 last year, became the oldest living U.S. President in history in 2018, following the passing of George H. W. Bush. He and his wife, Rosalynn have kept a low public profile in recent years, partly because of the coronavirus pandemic. But he's continued to speak out about risks to democracy around the world.
 
Let's take you to Plains, Georgia now and CNN's Isabel Rosales who's there for us live. Isabel, that community sending their prayers for peace and comfort to the former president and his family.
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Boris, good morning to you. We were seeing such an outpouring of love and support and prayers, really nationwide and internationally. But there is nobody more worried about Carter's condition really than his neighbors here in Plains, Georgia. These are the people that he grew up with, the people that, Sunday after Sunday, he would meet with at church service until health issues really turned him away from being able to attend.
 
Carter is so incredibly proud and strongly identifies with his Southern roots. In fact, his ancestors have been, Boris, in Georgia since the 1700s. And today he still lives in the same home that he built back in 1961. But let's talk about some of those health cares. You mentioned how the Carters have really been keeping a low profile because of COVID-19 in the pandemic.
 <br>[07:05:02]
 
2015, we saw that Carter defeated brain cancer. And then in 2019, those series of issues from surgery for a broken hip, stitches after hitting his head, a minor pelvic fracture, surgery to remove pressure on his brain, all of this really just forced him to give up the tradition of teaching at Sunday school.
 
He is a man of faith going and attending church service is something that has been so near and dear to his heart. And I want you to now take a look at this tweet also from Jason Carter. This is Carter's grandson and one-time Democratic Georgia state senator who said that he visited his grandparents on Friday, saying, quote, "They are at peace and as always, their home is full of love."
 
So, still a lot of questions here as to what happens next with this hospice care, the extent of Carter's condition here. We're looking to get more answers on that. Boris, Amara?
 
SANCHEZ: Isabel Rosales, reporting from Plains, Georgia. Thank you so much.
 
Focusing on other news now, face to face but not eye to eye. Secretary of State Antony Blinken meeting with his Chinese counterpart on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference yesterday.
 
WALKER: Yes, it was their first meeting since the U.S. shot down that suspected Chinese spy balloon. And it comes as the U.S. warns China against providing support to Russia in its war against Ukraine.
 
CNN Senior International Correspondent Will Ripley joining us live. Will, the U.S. says China is trying to, quote, creep up to the line of providing Russia with legal military aid. Just tell us, you know, all the dynamics that played out between Blinken and Wang Yi.
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I mean, the two main issues they discussed, Ukraine and the balloon. Let me set the stage for how this thing went down because it was just hours after Beijing's top diplomat, Wang Yi, basically stood in a panel and accused the U.S. of being hysterical and absurd and said that the United States needs to repair the damage to the China relationship for using, in his words, excessive force against their balloon.
 
So, needless to say, there was no apology from the Chinese side, no apology from Secretary Blinken on behalf of the U.S. for shooting down that balloon. No, he condemned the incursion. He stressed it must never happen again. But then he had another warning for China, and this one was about U.S. concerns that Beijing may be considering providing what the U.S. calls lethal support for Russia.
 
Not just saying helping them get away with, you know, violating sanctions and bolstering their economy, which China is already doing by, you know, buying, you know, cheap oil from Russia when it's sanctioned, or at least price capped around much of the world. But also there's concern that China might be considering taking that support even further, perhaps even providing weapons, Chinese weapons, to Russia for Vladimir Putin's unprovoked war on Ukraine.
 
Blinken saying that that would have very serious consequences for the U.S.-China relationship. Wang Yi saying that without naming names that some forces around the world don't want negotiations to succeed and don't want the war to end.
 
This meeting comes pretty much two weeks after secretary Blinken postponed his trip to Beijing, when the whole balloon fiasco began, when that suspected spy balloon entered U.S. airspace on the eve of his trip, which would have been the first visit to China in five years by a U.S. Secretary of State.
 
Both sides have been preparing for months for that meeting, which they say is badly needed to stabilize this fraught relationship, arguably at its lowest level in decades. A relationship that's even being tested right now because one of the top Pentagon officials, you know, on China is actually here in Taipei, in Taiwan as we speak.
 
And, of course, China never likes it when high level U.S. officials visit this self-governing democracy. But they didn't talk much about Taiwan. They didn't have time to do it. That's something they would definitely, probably discuss whenever this rescheduled meeting happens, Boris and Amara.
 
WALKER: Yes. At least they're talking, I guess is one way to see it. Will Ripley, thank you so much.
 
RIPLEY: Yes.
 
WALKER: So Friday marks a grim milestone. It is the one-year anniversary of Russia's invasion into Ukraine. President Biden getting ready to head to the region to shore up support for Ukraine among western allies.
 
SANCHEZ: CNN's White House Reporter Jasmine Wright joins us now live from the North Lawn with more on the President's trip. Jasmine, President Biden is headed to Poland. Why did he decide to go there? And ultimately, why is it critical that he go now at this point in the conflict?
 
JASMINE WRIGHT, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Well, the bottom line for this President, Boris and Amara, is about showing unity, especially as the war enters a new phase where it's become volatile, and also the fact that there is no real clear path to peace that exists in this moment. So the President's trip, the White House says, is very, very important.
 
So on Monday, we know that he will leave D.C. Tuesday morning, he's in Warsaw, Poland, where he will meet with President Duda of Poland. The White House says that the President Biden is expected to express his deep gratitude for all that Poland has contributed to supporting Ukraine in this war and that includes ammunition, weaponry and human assistance when it comes to those people that have fled from Ukraine into other European territories.
 <br>[07:10:25]
 
Now also the President on Tuesday will give a big high profile speech that talks about how the United States has led the effort to keep western allies united in support of Ukraine and he will again double down the fact that the U.S. continues to provide enduring support to Ukraine as long as it takes.
 
Last year we saw President Biden give a speech in Warsaw and that was when he appeared to call for regime change. Now, the White House bogged it back just hours later last year. But of course, we're looking to see what the President will say this -- in the next few days.
 
And then on Wednesday, the President will meet with the Bucharest Nine, that eastern flank of NATO allies. He will reaffirm the U.S.'s commitment to NATO and the support that they are giving on the front lines and all the ammunition and weaponry and aid and humanitarian assistance. And also the President will talk more about the way forward.
 
But of course, this comes at a pivotal moment because it not only is approaching the one year anniversary of Russia's invasion into Ukraine, but also it comes at a time where the White House is really reaffirming and really reacclimating themselves diplomatically to talking to Western allies about trying to get that support.
 
And also what we heard will talk about with their concerns about China. So the President will have to really address all of these themes in the next few days leading up to that anniversary. Boris, Amara?
 
SANCHEZ: A busy week ahead for President Biden. We know you'll be watching all his moves for us. Jasmine Wright from the White House, thanks so much.
 
Let's expand this conversation now with CNN Global Affairs Analyst Kimberly Dozier and CNN Military Analyst and Retired Army Lieutenant General Mark Hertling. He's a former commander of Europe and the 7th Army and he just magically appeared from the darkness. I'm glad we got that worked out, General.
 
First, Kimberly to you, what is President Biden's top priority going into Poland?
 
KIMBERLY DOZIER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: To keep the allies together, to keep the aid flowing into Ukraine and if anything, to speed it up because U.S. officials and European officials are aware that the longer this goes on, the more that Ukraine is losing its human capital to conduct this war.
 
Russia is a much larger nation. It has millions of troops in reserve. And the point has been to try to get more sophisticated weapons to Ukraine so that it can make up for that numbers difference on the battlefield. The Russians are willing to lose a lot more troops. The British intelligence services have been reporting that they are losing hundreds of troops a day in an absolute meat grinder on the battlefield.
 
And the U.S. and other allies of Ukraine are aware that Ukraine simply doesn't have the numbers to keep that up. So this has to be, one, in a sense, sooner rather than later.
 
SANCHEZ: And General, I wanted to ask you about arms because there's new CNN reporting that shows Ukraine gets more equipment by capturing it from Russian troops than it does get donated by allies, including the United States. So if they were to beat Russia, is that sustainable?
 
LT. GEN. MARK HERTLING, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, probably not, because so much of the Russian equipment has been damaged. But truthfully, Boris, those equipment, those pieces of equipment that they are capturing are of a much lower quality than they're getting from the Western allies in the United States.
 
They are -- you know, they have been assisting in that because they have had the capability of using that equipment because it's just like the ones they started the war with. They need more ammunition for the types of weapons they have, which are old Russian equipment. So that helps a lot when they capture an ammo dump or a cachet. It contributes to their capability of creating mass.
 
But truthfully, I think the equipment they're going to get from the Western countries has been significant. You ask about Poland. Poland alone has provided 3 -- almost $4 billion in military aid to Ukraine, and all the Western nations in NATO are doing the same kinds of things.
 
When you talk about the amount of equipment the United States has delivered, almost $40 billion worth of equipment. You could run down the litany of the list of the things that have been provided, and they are significantly in terms of technologically advanced in the military hardware.
 
SANCHEZ: So, General, staying with you, where do you stand on perhaps sending more advanced weaponry, those F-16, those longer-range missiles? Is it the right time?
 <br>[07:15:01]
 
HERTLING: You know, Boris, I don't think it is, and here's why I say that. When you -- you know, you're basically dumping a lot of Western technology on top of Ukraine, and everyone is -- who is unfamiliar with the Ukrainian army will say, hey, they've proven themselves capable of using it. Just give it to them and they'll put it to use.
 
Well, that's not quite true. There has been some real challenges to the Ukraine Iranian army. And what you're really suggesting is that they completely transform their military during a time of war. It has been very difficult. It isn't just putting, you know, a pilot in an F- 16 fighter seat.
 
It's also providing the support, the repair parts, the supply, and the capability to train all those individuals on a weapon systems like the F-16, which is a flyby wire aircraft, very different than the hydraulic type of aircraft -- 
 
SANCHEZ: Right.
 
HERTLING: -- that MiG 29 that they've been using. So while I know a lot of people want to give Ukraine more, I think Secretary Austin and the Ramstein Contact Group have been very prescient in terms of providing the right kind of equipment that Ukraine can use on the battlefield right away.
 
SANCHEZ: And Kimberly, let's talk China, because Secretary of State Antony Blinken finally met with Wang Yi, his Chinese counterpart, at the Munich Security Conference. That meeting was delayed after that whole balloon saga. What did you make of their remarks following that conversation?
 
DOZIER: It's tense. China is sticking to its position that this was just a weather balloon, that strong westerly winds blew off course and the U.S. overreacted. That is something that, while Washington doesn't buy, it could be playing well, not just inside China, but in places like Africa and parts of Latin America that are recipients of Chinese business contracts and Chinese aid.
 
So it contributes to this idea of the China influence growing against the U.S. influence. But it was also a chance for the U.S. Secretary of State to articulate things he didn't say in public, like those threatened punishments if China decides to start supplying actual weaponry to Russia for its war against Ukraine.
 
Reporters in D.C. had a briefing from a senior European official that praised the U.S. ability to pull together a new sanctions regime against Russia. And when I asked about, well, could you use the same thing against China? And they said, absolutely. Look, once you develop something like this, you can deploy it elsewhere. SANCHEZ: Potentially a significant deterrent against China. Kimberly Dozier, General Mark Hertling, we have to leave the conversation there. Thank you both so much for sharing part of your Sunday with us.
 
WALKER: All right. And Secretary of State Antony Blinken is expected to land at any moment now in Turkey, where he will see firsthand the devastation left behind by that powerful earthquake two weeks ago. We are hearing news stories of people still being rescued after being trapped under the rubble. We'll share them with you.
 
Also, residents in East Palestine, Ohio, say they are convinced the chemicals a train was carrying when it derails are making them sick. We're going to talk to a doctor about the potential health impacts and what it may mean for the future.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:22:30]
 
SANCHEZ: Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in Turkey landing just moments ago to see firsthand the aftermath of that devastating earthquake that struck the region earlier this month.
 
WALKER: In Turkey -- there is Antony Blinken arriving, by the way. In Turkey, the death toll stands at more than 40,000. And just yesterday, rescuers pulled three survivors out of the rubble of a building there, which really is a miracle more than 296 hours after the 7.8 magnitude quake. That quake hitting on February 6.
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh is on the scene in Antakya, Turkey. I see just the devastation and of course, the cleanup happening there behind you. What is the latest there, Jomana?
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Amara, we are in the city of Antakya in Hatay Province, one of the hardest hits by the earthquake. And as you can see behind me here, these operations have been in full swing over the past couple of weeks. Initially, it was the search and rescue operations that have been ongoing.
 
Those are coming to an end now, as we understand from Turkish officials. Although, as you mentioned, there have been these incredible rescues that have been described here as miracles, with people being pulled alive from underneath the rubble after more than 200, nearly 300 hours of being trapped underneath the wreckage of their homes.
 
But this is beginning to phaseout now here in Hatay province. Last night, officials said that there were about 90 active search and rescue operations taking place. But now the chances of finding people alive are very slim to none, really. So the operations have really moved into search and recovery.
 
They have been pulling many, many dead bodies across the city and across the earthquake zone. You've also got this going on. You've got the diggers, excavators working across hundreds of sites just in this province alone, where they are moving the debris. They're also still locating dead bodies.
 
And, I mean, as you can see, we're wearing masks here. I mean, it is so hard to breathe. You've got the dust coming out, the cement dust, the fires that are burning. They're also pulling out dead bodies. So everyone around us, a lot of people have been wearing mask. It's very hard to breathe here.
 <br>[07:25:02]
 
And what we understand was here, was about 300 apartments. These were buildings where, you know, we can still see some of the survivors around these sites. And it's absolutely heartbreaking to see. You've got people -- looking at what used to be their homes now reduced to piles and piles of rubble.
 
And not just that, you have people who are sitting, waiting, looking for their loved ones. They went from hoping to find their loved ones alive to now hoping to locate the bodies of their loved ones so they can give them a proper burial. It is absolutely heartbreaking. And this is happening across this massive earthquake zone.
 
You have people who haven't yet been able to process what has happened to them, to comprehend the loss that they have suffered. You have them trying to find their loved ones, bury their loved ones. And then you've got the crisis of homelessness right now, so many people.
 
If they're lucky, they have tents or they have cars they're sleeping in, but not everyone has tents. You've got thousands and thousands of people who are right now homeless and desperate for a tent. And then you have the fact that this population hasn't even yet begun to deal with the psychological impact this has had on them, this collective trauma. Amara, Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: It will be a long time before things return to normal in that part of the world. Jomana Karadsheh, thank you so much.
 
As Jomana mentioned, hope of survivors, finding survivors is quickly fading. But we are hearing some stories of people who somehow made it out alive after days under the rubble.
 
WALKER: It really is incredible. This woman was one of three rescued in southern Turkey Saturday, nearly 300 hours after their building collapsed. You can see her there laying down.
 
CNN's Sara Sidner has some of their remarkable stories.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Speaking Foreign Language)
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Firefighters scan the debris in Hatay for signs of life.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Speaking Foreign Language)
 
SIDNER (voice-over): They ask him if there's anyone else with him and about his condition.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Speaking Foreign Language)
 
SIDNER (voice-over): "It's OK," the 65-year-old Syrian man tells them. It was the 208th hour, the ninth day, since the powerful earthquakes hit Turkey and Syria. Six hours later, 77-year-old Fatma Gungor (ph) is pulled from under the rubble in Adiyaman.
 
As the death toll climbs at terrifying speeds, these are rare rescues and they've become the only source of hope. This has largely turned into a recovery operation. Focus is shifting towards sheltering tens of thousands of people made homeless by the disaster and burying tens of thousands of others.
 
Families don't want to leave the site of their collapsed homes, hoping and praying to find loved ones, clinging to news of miracles.
 
Brothers 17-year-old Muhammed Enes Yeninar (ph) and his 21-year-old brother, Abdul Baki (ph), were pulled from under a collapsed eight- story building in Kahramanmaras on the 198th hour. They stayed alive by eating protein powder.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Speaking Foreign Language)
 
SIDNER (voice-over): In Adiyaman, rescuers tunneled through the debris to pull out 18-year-old Muhammed Cafer Cetin (ph). This is well beyond the critical first 72 hours when most rescues happen.
 
Now, many calls for silence to hear the faint voices of trapped survivors are met with deafening silence. Until another miracle happens. This 7-month-old baby was pulled from the rubble after 139 hours.
 
After 167 hours under the suffocating debris, this man managed to pull himself out.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Speaking Foreign Language)
 
SIDNER (voice-over): Joyous moments keep up the spirits of exhausted rescuers.
 
These brothers were pulled one after the other in Hatay after more than a week with little or no water under entangled slabs of concrete and steel. Many, though, will face a long recovery.
 
Ferriss (ph) and Fatma (ph) were pulled out on the 209th hour. Their five children are believed to still be trapped underneath. The bitter realization that some people are the only surviving members of an extended family.
 <br>[07:30:00]
 
But that does not stop the celebrations or the hope for yet another miracle.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) SANCHEZ: More than 200 hours trapped under rubble. Can you imagine that? Our thanks to Sara Sidner for her report.
 
Still ahead, Ohio residents, they're expressing serious concerns about their health after a train derailment released chemicals into the air, ground and water. One health scientist though say, they may not feel the effects for some time. She'll join us live next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Two weeks after a Norfolk Southern train carrying hazardous materials went off the tracks in Eastern Ohio, the head of the rail company is promising they're in it for the long haul and the local officials plan to hold them to that. CEO Alan Shaw held a series of closed-door meetings Saturday with local leaders to try to listen to their concerns.
 
WALKER: And while the air and water has been deemed safe, residents are not convinced. Some have complained of a lingering chemical stench and adverse reactions like headaches and pains.
 <br>[07:35:00]
 
In an open letter, Shaw pledges that his team is creating a long-term plan to address these concerns saying in part, we have implemented a comprehensive testing program to ensure the safety of East Palestine's water, air and soil. We are going to do the work thoroughly, completely, and safely. Environmental health scientist Dr. Erin Haynes joins me with more.
 
Well, you know, there are people who live there. And while the studies are being done, they have to deal with, you know, the water and the air and what have you. I know, Doctor, you have been talking with people in East Palestine. Is there anything that you are hearing from them in particular that concerns you?
 
DR. ERIN HAYNES, ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SCIENTIST, UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY: Good morning. Yes, I am hearing their concerns about their exposures and also the commitment for long-term monitoring. We do -- we really think that their -- some of their exposures, especially from perhaps the drinking, the drinking water, over time, may take time to reach the well water levels in which they would drinking. And so, a long-term plan is one of the biggest concerns that I'm hearing that they need. They are anxious to hear that there will be long-term plans.
 
WALKER: Yes, so -- I mean, officials have said that the well water is fine, that no hazards have been found. I think they're still testing the streams and the rivers.
 
DR. HAYNES: Yes
 
WALKER: And they also the tap water has found no hazards -- 
 
DR. HAYNES: Yes. WALKER: -- at least according to the testing. What is your advice to residents? Should they be boiling water or should they be buying bottled water?
 
DR. HAYNES: No, not boiling. That -- boiling water can only -- it concentrates any -- the chemicals that are in the water as it, you know, as it evaporates, the chemicals concentrate. It -- wouldn't recommend that. Drinking bottled water is a good idea at this point, especially while concerns exist and unless you've had your water tested, I would rely on bottled water.
 
WALKER: So then, what do you make of, you know, the testing that's inside, in the homes, into the air, coming back with no hazards being found? Is it because it takes time at least in the water and the streams for the chemicals to turn up?
 
DR. HAYNES: Yes. So, most likely the air contaminants, the chemicals that were in their home and in their community, have most likely settled out and down into the ground, into the soil, and into the local waterways. Then it could then, over time, and it may be a year to enter into their water table and where they're getting drinking water from the wells. So, it's important that there is long-term plans for monitoring their wells so that they are not drinking these chemicals later and no one is there to measure them.
 
WALKER: OK. But what about right now?
 
DR. HAYNES: Right now, I believe the EPA has done an -- I think an excellent job of going into homes, collecting air samples, and providing information back. On water right now, they have also reported that the levels are safe. The municipal water treatment companies are able to remove anything that is in there. So, I believe the water, at this point, is safe. But I would -- I recommend -- I would recommend they drink bottled water until more studies come out.
 
WALKER: And cook with bottled water?
 
DR. HAYNES: Yes.
 
WALKER: OK.
 
DR. HAYNES: Yes.
 
WALKER: I mean, you're the environmental scientist here. I mean, what should residents know about vinyl chloride, right? Because that's what burned, which is what -- in one of those cars. What chemicals are released when it breaks down and what is the impact that that can have on people in terms of, you know, health?
 
DR. HAYNES: Yes. So, the vinyl chloride, it goes away quickly. It was there. It was, you know, it was in the fire, it burns. And most of it is probably dissipated and maybe even turn into something else. So, when these chemicals heat at these high concentrations heat in temperature, new chemicals can form and then those new chemicals are in the environment, in the water streams, in the soil. So, that's the next concern, is to see what these buy products are from the fire. WALKER: Yes, I mean, it's obviously, concerning when you're hearing from people who, you know, are complaining of sore throat and nausea and headaches, you know, even though officials are saying some of the stuff seem to be safe at this time. So, bottled water, cook with bottled water, drink bottled water for now. Dr. Erin Haynes, thank you for the advice.
 
DR. HAYNES: Yes, thank you for having me on. It's a pleasure. I look forward to working with the community in the future.
 
WALKER: It sounds good. Thank you.
 
SANCHEZ: Still to come this morning, how Vladimir Putin's war on Ukraine is forcing some Russian citizens to flee their home country. We have their stories coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:40:00]
 
WALKER: This Friday marks one year since Russia invaded Ukraine. And the possibility of being forced to fight and possibly die in battled has alarmed thousands of Russian civilians.
 
SANCHEZ: And so much so that many are fleeing their homeland, trying to find refuge in other countries. CNN's Rafael Romo has their stories.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Anatolia Takhtorav says he already knows where he wants to build his new life.
 
ANATOLIA TAKHTORAV, RUSSIAN MIGRANT: There is many Russians in Los Angeles. My friends, Pavel and Sergei, they want to go to New York.
 <br>[07:45:00]
 
ROMO (voiceover): The migrant from Moscow is staying at a shelter in the Mexican City of Reynosa along across the border from McAllen, Texas along with two other Russian friends. Getting to this side of the world, he says, was not easy.
 
TAKHTORAV (voiceover): From Moscow to Minsk, Belarus, then Istanbul.
 
ROMO (voiceover): After arriving in Istanbul, he says he traveled to Madrid before flying across the Atlantic to the Mexican beach resort of Cancun and then making the trip to Reynosa. His 26-year-old friend Sergei Zhustarev, who's also from Moscow, is not shy about the reason why he left his native country.
 
SERGEI ZHUSTAREV, RUSSIAN MIGRANT: I don't want fight and kill people. I don't want fight for the terrorist Putin.
 
ROMO (voiceover): At the shelter, they were joined by Pavel Fedorov, who says he left his dentistry practice in Moscow as an act of defiance against his country's leader in a war that has become a threat for everybody.
 
PAVEL FEDOROV, RUSSIAN MIGRANT: For men, especially at 18 to 65, this is -- you are a soldier. No immigration, no pass, stay in Russia. Too much people in Georgia, Armenia, Mongolia.
 
ROMO (voiceover): During the first months of the war, Russian men fled in droves to neighboring countries like Georgia.
 
ROMO (on camera): But some Russians have decided safety can only be found on this side of the world. The migrants staying at the shelter in Reynosa are only three among tens of thousands who have made the long trip in the last year after the invasion started. Many have applied for asylum and say they hope to build a new life in the United States far away from the war and Putin.
 
ROMO (voiceover): According to U.S. Customs and Border Protection figures, the number of Russians who crossed the southern U.S. border last fiscal year when the Ukraine invasion started grew by more than 430 percent compared with the year before. Back at the shelter, Zhustarev reflects on the hard decision he had to make.
 
ZHUSTAREV: Very difficult. I have three daughter, wife -- young wife. Very hard.
 
ROMO (voiceover): He says he hopes both of them will be able to join him soon to build a new life together in New York. Rafael Romo, CNN, Atlanta.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALKER: All right. Just ahead, a remarkable comeback after 10 months in Russian prison, Brittney Griner is set to make her return to the WNBA. We'll the details on where she will suit up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:50:00]
 
WALKER: After spending 10 months in a Russian prison, Brittney Griner is making good on her vow to play basketball again.
 
SANCHEZ: The two-time Olympic champion reportedly signed a one-year contract yesterday to return to the Phoenix Mercury for a 10th season, the only WNBA team that Griner has ever played for. Phoenix opens their season against the Los Angeles Sparks on May 19.
 
The NBA's all-star weekend delivering an incredible story last night. You really have to see this. Probably the least likely dunk contest champion ever.
 
WALKER: Andy Scholes joining us live from Salt Lake City for more on Mac McClung, remember that name, and his amazing journey.
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Yes, you know, Amara and Boris, when fans looked at this year's dunk contest on paper, you know, it was rather underwhelming. No star power, but fans certainly know the name Mac McClung now. He put an all-time performance ahead this arena here in Salt Lake City, just going bonkers.
 
And McClung was the 2022 G-league rookie of the year. He's only played two games in his NBA career. Just got signed by the 76ers this week. And Wow. Just wow for his performance last night. His first dunk, jumped over a guy, tapped the backboard, and finished with the reverse slam, that had everyone on their feet. And Mac had everyone just in awe again in the finals when he sealed the win with this spinning dunk.
 
Mac's from Gate City, Virginia. Town of just 2,000 people. He went to Georgetown, then Texas Tech for college ball, and trying now he's trying to latch on in the NBA. And I caught up with him last night and asked him, how does it feel now to be the 2023 slam dunk champion?
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAC MCCLUNG, 2023 NBA SLAM DUNK CHAMPION: I feel a lot of gratitude. I had a lot of help and the crowd was really amazing. And I was -- it was a blessing. It's really cool, man. I mean, I'll be able to tell my kids and brag about it one day. But yes, the goal is to play in NBA. I'm going to keep working every day. I'm very hungry and I'm resilient so I'm going to keep working.
 
SCHOLES: Michael Jordan, Kobe Bryant, Vince Carter, Mac McClung. How does it feel to have your name amongst those greats?
 
MCCLUNG: I don't feel it's really set in yet. It's all been a blur. I feel like I was out there for 30 seconds and I'm back. But I'm grateful, man.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: Yes, 6'2", 185, Mac McClung. Just incredible. Now, the three- point shootout, it was also awesome last night. Portland's Damian Lillard, like he does so often, coming through in the clutch to beat the Pacers. But he heeled (ph) (INAUDIBLE) in the finals to win his first three-point crown. And this was extra special for Lillard. He went to college here in Utah, at Weber State and wore his school's jersey for the competition.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAMIAN LILLARD, 20213 NBA ALL-STAR 3-POINT CHAMPION: This is a second home for me. And sometimes that's what it takes, you know, for an experience to be what it's supposed to be. You know, I feel like this is how it's supposed to happen, and I'm happy that it happened here.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: And of course, we got the main event tonight. All-star Sunday, team Giannis against team LeBron. And make sure you tune in early because for the first-time ever, the captains are going to pick their teams right before tip-off to try and avoid any embarrassment for the players. They're actually going to drop the reserves then the starters. But I still -- I asked the guys if there's any concern about being picked last on national TV. [07:55:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TYRESE HALIBURTON, PACERS GUARD/1ST ALL-STAR APPEARANCE: Actually, I always prepare for the worst. So, in my head right now, I'm like, I will be the last pick. Hopefully, I'm not. But if I am, I'll -- let's just hoop. I don't care.
 
JAYSON TATUM, CELTICS FORWARD/4TH ALL-STAR APPEARANCE: Somebody's going to have to get picked last. But at the end of the day, we're still all-stars. So, you know, just have a little fun with it.
 
DOMANTAS SABONIS, KINGS FORWARD/3RD ALL-STAR APPEARANCE: First year I was the last. Second year, I was the second last. So, hopefully this year I'm not the last. So, we'll see.
 
BAM ADEBAYO, HEAT FORWARD/2ND ALL-STAR APPEARANCE: I don't think it's awkward. I just think you got picked last. No hard feelings.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: Should be lots of fun, guys. You can watch all the coverage starting tonight at 6:00 eastern on TNT. And you know when it comes to the draft, LeBron's pretty good since they went to this format. He's 5-0 when drafting a team. We'll see if Giannis can finally break that streak tonight.
 
SANCHEZ: They should open it up and see if Mac McClung can get drafted. I'm not kidding. He looks like a kid named Frankie Gonzales (ph) I went to high school with. I used to copy off of him in math class. Incredible.
 
WALKER: It is. I mean, the fact they can jump that high, I mean, up to the guy's shoulders was amazing to watch.
 
SANCHEZ: Yes.
 
WALKER: Andy -- 
 
SANCHEZ: Springs in his shoes.
 
WALKER: Probably. Andy Scholes, thank you so much. Thank you everyone for being with us this morning.
 
SANCHEZ: Don't go anywhere, "Inside Politics Sunday with Abby Phillip" is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:00:00]