Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: UK Businessman and Son among those Killed; CNN Investigates Casts Doubt on Official Accounts; Indian PM Modi holds Rare News Conference; Search for Answers to what caused Titan Implosion; Can Israel and Saudi Arabia Normalize Ties Amid West Bank Violence, Settlement Plans; Andrew Tate to Remain Under House Arrest. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired June 23, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN ANCHOR CONNECT THE WORLD: This hour tributes are paid to the five men killed during the catastrophic implosion of the Titan 
 
 submersible. While questions have now been raised over how the private industry of deep sea diving should be regulated.
 
Pakistan now says at least 350 of its nationals were onboard the migrant boat that capsized off the coast of Greece last week, leaving hundreds of 
 
 feared drowned when you see it an investigation reveals what happened in the hours before that fishing boat sank.
 
Western officials say the first stages of Ukraine's counter offensive are not meeting expectations, but the Prime Minister urges patients. And 
 
 following a week of escalating violence in the occupied West Bank, we will speak to the Former U.S. Ambassador to Israel Martin Indyk about what is 
 
 the worsening situation there?
 
Well, the tragedy of the Titan submersible is now a search for answers instead of survivors. The focus of the investigation is shifting. Other 
 
 officials announced the sub suffered a catastrophic implosion killing all five people on board. More details aren't now emerging the U.S. Navy saying 
 
 it detected sounds of a possible implosion on Saturday or sorry, on Sunday, around the same time that communication was lost with the sub.
 
We'll go live to CNN's Paula Newton in Halifax, Nova Scotia, in Canada. And Paula, there are an awful lot of questions now about regulation about 
 
 whether this vessel should have been allowed to make this dive in the first place. What do we know?
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I mean, given the fact that it launched off the shores of St. John's here in Eastern Canada, it is an 
 
 issue as to whether or not it was properly regulated. There will be plenty of time for that investigation. In the meantime, here in Halifax, the 
 
 coordination center that really had been coordinating not just to the aircraft, but that aircraft that was launching those son buoys in the 
 
 water.
 
Obviously, all of that is done now the big question remains what about those banging noises? The U.S. Coast Guard indicated that obviously that 
 
 had nothing to do with the fate of the Titan. Again still a lot of questions, Becky, especially as to who will be taking over this 
 
 investigation.
 
Whether the transportation safety board here in Canada will be the lead and also whether those remote operated vehicles will get to the bottom of the 
 
 deep sea to collect yet more debris. For right now though this is first and foremost a personal tragedy for the friends and family of the five onboard.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAUL-HENRI NARGEOLET, FRENCH RESEARCHER: The 24th of July 1987 was my first dive to the Titanic with two team members. And it was an unforgettable 
 
 moment.
 
NEWTON (voice over): That was Paul-Henri Nargeolet, 77 year old Frenchman who made more than 30 dives to the Titanic, earning him the nickname Mr. 
 
 Titanic. David Gallo is Nargeolet's close friend colleague and an oceanographer himself.
 
DAVID GALLO, OCEANOGRAPHER AND FRIEND OF NARGEOLET: I'm sure he did everything he could, or would do everything he could do to make sure that 
 
 they had every chance of surviving whatever it was.
 
NEWTON (voice over): Stockton Rush, the Chief Executive of the firm behind the dive was also on board. The experience of those involved was always 
 
 crucial to the mission.
 
STOCKTON RUSH, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF OCEANGATE: There are five individuals can go on each dive. Three of those are what we call Mission Specialists. So 
 
 those are the folks who help finance the mission, but they're also active participants. So were we not a fan of the tourist term is because these are 
 
 crew members.
 
NEWTON (voice over): One of those crew members is the British billionaire and explorer Hamish Harding. Part of two record breaking trips to the South 
 
 Pole. He also held a world record for the fastest circumnavigation of the globe via both poles. Last year, he went into space with Jeff Bezos Blue 
 
 Origin Company.
 
HAMISH HARDING, BRITISH BILLIONAIRE: I've always wanted to do this and the sheer experience looking out of the window is something I'm looking forward 
 
 to.
 
NEWTON (voice over): In a post on social media, before the dive he described feeling proud to be part of the Titans expedition. Also onboard 
 
 Shahzada Dawood, who comes from one of Pakistan's richest families and lived in the U.K. with his wife and two children, he taken his son Suleman 
 
 just 19 years old, along with him.
 
A family statement as for privacy and prayers, when the sub went missing, a search that was called impossible now over, the Titan and the five people 
 
 on board now lie at the bottom of the ocean.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
NEWTON: Perhaps a measure of comfort that this was as the experts are saying a catastrophic implosion and that means for the families that there 
 
 wasn't the long term excruciating suffering that so many of us were concerned about. Thinking about those five, trapped in that submersible. 
 
 Still, though, a lot of questions to be answered for the families and in general, for anyone interested in this kind of deep sea exploration, Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Yes, an awful lot of questions still aren't answered at this point. It's good to have you on and thank you for your reporting. Paula is 
 
 in Nova Scotia there. Will the Director of the film Titanic, James Cameron is himself a deep sea explorer with more than 30 trips to the Titanic 
 
 wreckage.
 
He says he feared an implosion was likely after learning the sub was missing. Earlier this week, he spoke with my colleague, CNN, Anderson 
 
 Cooper, a little earlier on today, have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JAMES CAMERON, DIRECTOR OF TITANIC: First I heard of it was Monday morning. I immediately got on my network, because it's you know, a very small 
 
 community in the deep submergence group. And found out some information within about a half hour that they had lost comms, and they had lost 
 
 tracking simultaneously.
 
The only scenario that I could come up with in my mind that could account for that was an implosion shockwave event so powerful that it actually took 
 
 out a secondary system that has its own pressure vessel, and its own battery power supply, which is the transponder that the ship uses to track 
 
 where the sub is.
 
So I was thinking implosion then that's Monday morning, then I watched over the ensuing days, this whole sort of everybody running around with their 
 
 hair on fire search, knowing full well that it was futile, hoping against hope that I was wrong, but knowing in my bones that I wasn't.
 
And so it certainly wasn't a surprise today. And I just feel terrible for the families that had to go through all these false hopes that kept getting 
 
 dangled, you know, as it played out.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: James Cameron speaking to my colleague, Anderson Cooper earlier. Well, it has been an enormous search and rescue response and the effort and 
 
 cost is raising questions of double standards about the amount of time and effort spent to find that submersible compared to.
 
The migrant boat that capsized off the coast of Greece last week leaving hundreds feared drowned. There are questions over how Greek authorities 
 
 responded Pakistan says at least 350 of its nationals were onboard the vessel. The official death toll from Greek authorities still stands at 82.
 
So we are talking about hundreds of people, men, women and children likely drowned in the sea. CNN's Jomana Karadsheh has been investigating. And she 
 
 joins me now. What have we found Jomana?
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, you know, Becky, as you mentioned, at least 82 people so far confirmed dead, more than 500 are 
 
 still unaccounted for. They're presumed dead right now. And, you know, year after year, Becky, summer after summer, we report on these tragedies, these 
 
 catastrophic shipwrecks in the Mediterranean.
 
And it appears that last week's incident, was not only just avoidable, based on our investigation over the past week, speaking with survivors, 
 
 family members of survivors and victims, as well as activists and combining that with marine traffic and open source data, we really tried to piece 
 
 together what happened. And it really raises very serious questions about the Greek authority's official version of events.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): The desperate exhausting week for the promise of a new life in Europe, these Pakistanis crammed into a small room by smugglers 
 
 in Libya, some of them believe to be among the hundreds presumed dead, these last images before they embarked on their ill-fated journey.
 
About 750 refugees and migrants were packed into this fishing vessel bound for Italy before it capsized off the coast of Greece. Only 104 survived, 
 
 and with them the harrowing accounts of what they'd been through.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You can still hear the voice of a woman calling out for help we would swim and move floating bodies out of your way.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): The Syrian survivor spoke to us from Greece he asked for his identity to be concealed for security reasons. He's another 
 
 accounts obtained by CNN not only contradict the official Greek version of events, but point to fault on the part of the Greek Coast Guard.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
KARADSHEH (on camera): Greek authorities who watched and were communication with the boat for an entire day insist that it was not in distress and 
 
 refused assistance. Our investigation tells a very different story.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): Just before 1 pm on June 13, the boat was first spotted by the EU's Border Patrol agency Frontex, which says it notified 
 
 Greek authorities of a "heavily overcrowded fishing vessel". Those on board were in distress lost at sea with no food or water for days according to 
 
 survivors and activists in touch with the boat throughout the day. At about 7 pm an activist in Italy recorded one of the calls capturing the horror on 
 
 board.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Can I notify the coast guard that six people died.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): As activist repeatedly relayed calls for rescue to authorities to merchant vessels approach the boat instructed by the Greek 
 
 Coast Guard to provide the boat with food and water, but as darkness fell at 10:40 pm, a Greek Coast Guard vessel moves in now the only ship on the 
 
 scene.
 
Three hours later, the haunting last words from the boat to the activist group alarm phone. Hello, my friend, the ship you send is, and the line 
 
 cuts out. What happened next is likely to raise more questions as the investigations continue. Survivors tell us it was a botched attempt by the 
 
 Greek Coast Guard to tow their boat that caused it to capsize.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They decided to throw as a rope. So the guys at the front tide it, they told us the boat tilted to the right and everyone was 
 
 screaming. People began falling into the sea and the boat capsized. People couldn't get out from under the boat.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): The Greek Coast Guard has declined our request for an interview but in previous comments they've denied telling the troller 
 
 saying when the boat capsized, we were not even next to it, how could we be towing it? Instead they blamed "a shift in weight probably caused by 
 
 panic."
 
For years Greek authorities have been accused of systematically and violently pushing back migrants and refugees. Video like this one released 
 
 by the Turkish Government captured the now well documented practice Greece denies. This deadly incident is not just about what they may have done. 
 
 It's also about what they didn't do.
 
VINCENT COCHETEL, UNHCR SPECIAL ENVOY FOR THE CENTRAL MEDITERRANEAN: It was clear, it wasn't seeing, where see, it was clear that it is part of a 
 
 trafficking movement from Libya to Europe, Saudi authorities are the responsibility to intervene to save life.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): As Fortress Europe hardens its immigration policies to deter some of the, world's most vulnerable, this disaster will almost 
 
 certainly not be the last.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH: And Becky, as we've seen over the past few years, these strategies by European countries to try and deter refugees and migrants 
 
 from reaching their borders in their shores is not really working. And what we are seeing right now, according to activists, U.N. officials, other NGOs 
 
 is new patterns that are emerging.
 
Whether it's from the smugglers and traffickers who are trying new and more dangerous routes to try and get people to Europe, for example, seeing this 
 
 as we saw in this case, more and more fishing boats leaving Eastern Libya, a 600 percent increase this year in this route, more and more boats leaving 
 
 towards Europe from there
 
And also very disturbing as well, according to officials we spoken to is this new pattern coastal countries, including Greece are accused of not 
 
 only pushing back something we have reported in the past refugees and migrants towards Libya and other countries out into international waters.
 
But what they are doing and what they're accused of doing is facilitating the movement of these boats by providing them with water, food and even 
 
 fuel towards Italy that has of course recorded this year a serious increase in arrivals. So the concern right now is while there is this, where people 
 
 are not being deterred.
 
People who are risking everything for this new life in Europe that they have been planning for and saving their entire lives for they're not 
 
 deterred. And the causes of these departures, of course, are not being tackled is you are going to be seeing more and more of these tragedies in 
 
 this Mediterranean in this sort of catastrophic loss of life.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, I mean, the Mediterranean this year is, you know, could be described as a morgue if we if there are 500 odd people, men, women and 
 
 children who are as yet unaccounted for the understanding is that these people have drowned.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
And the idea that there is no policy as far as European policy as far as sea rescues are concerned both the head of the refugee agency and the head 
 
 of the International Organization for Migration called out Europe for its lack of policy both on sea rescues and on its policy across the board on 
 
 migration and asylum.
 
And still we continue to see this. Your reporting is extremely important. Thank you very much indeed. And we will continue to report on this story. 
 
 Former U.S. President Barack Obama noted that more attention is being paid to the Titanic submersible then the migrant boat is tragedy spoke 
 
 exclusively with CNN's Christiane Amanpour.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BARACK OBAMA, 44TH U.S. PRESIDENT: But right now we have 24 hour coverage. And I understand it of this submarine, the submersible the tragically is 
 
 right now lost at the bottom of the sea. At the same time, right here, in just off the coast of Greece, we had 700 people dead, 700 migrants who were 
 
 apparently being smuggled into here.
 
And we've made news, but it's not dominating in the same way. And in some ways, it's indicative of the degree to which people's life chances have 
 
 grown so desperate. It's very hard to sustain a democracy when you have such massive concentrations of wealth.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: You can see Christiane's full interview with Former U.S. President Barack Obama, a CNN exclusive. That is 1 pm, today in New York 
 
 Times, 6 in the evening, if you are watching in London or 9 pm, if you are here in Dubai. You're watching "Connect the World" with me, Becky Anderson.
 
It is what time is it this evening it is quarter past seven here. We're programming from Dubai today ahead on the show the leaders of India and the 
 
 United States, praising each other during a red state visit in Washington, what they are saying and not saying about the growing influence of China.
 
Plus, pushing back on the battlefield and against Western doubts, Ukraine says its counter offensive is just getting started.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Let me start that again important agreements and address the U.S. Congress and a rare news conference all happening during Indian Prime 
 
 Minister Narendra Modi's state visit to the U.S. After talks with President Joe Biden on Thursday, Mr. Modi will have lunch with the U.S. Vice 
 
 President and Secretary of State today and meet with top business leaders.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
Both leaders stressing the importance of their country's relationship amid the growing global influence of China, Vedika Sud has reaction from New 
 
 Delhi for you.
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: U.S. President Joe Biden Hill ties between India and America as the defining relationship of the 21st century while Indian 
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi called it the coming together of the world's two largest democracies. A slew of defense and technology pacts aimed at 
 
 boosting economic and defense between the world's oldest and largest democracies were announced after the bilateral meeting between the two 
 
 world leaders.
 
Back in New Delhi, he has some Indian newspapers reported Modi's made in state visit on Friday morning. New dawn for India-U.S. ties is the top line 
 
 in the Hindustan Times. India-U.S. ties take jet speed is the main headline in the Financial Express after collaborations for the manufacturer of jet 
 
 engines was announced Thursday.
 
While addressing the Congress and event boycotted by some Democratic lawmakers, Modi without naming India's neighbor made a possible reference 
 
 to China.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NARENDRA MODI, INDIAN PRIME MINISTER: The dark clouds of coercion and confrontation are casting their shadow in the Indo Pacific.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD: In an era of growing tensions between the U.S. and China, President Biden is aware of India's crucial role for his Asia strategy. He sees the 
 
 country as a counterweight to China's growing influence, and is keen to draw India closer than ever before.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL KUGELMAN, DIRECTOR OF SOUTH ASIA INSTITUTE: I would argue that Modi has really tested the limits of strategic autonomy. Modi has brought India 
 
 closer to the U.S. than any other leader has before him. And you just look at how defense cooperation has strengthened over the years.
 
And even at this visit, there were two major new defense deals. So I think that's credit to the Prime Minister, you know really strengthening defense 
 
 partnership with the U.S. as much as you can while operating outside of the alliance system.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD: Welcome, according to Modi, who till almost Deccan back was denied a visa to the U.S. will also be seen as an acknowledgement by global power of 
 
 India's rise as an economic and diplomatic power. Vedika Sud, CNN, New Delhi.
 
ANDERSON: White House Correspondent Arlette Saenz joining me this hour and if you live in the region that I am in Arlette, it is not unfamiliar to see 
 
 and witness is observing the rise of what India itself calls its middle power status around the world. But this has been fascinating to see the 
 
 prominence of this relationship between the U.S. and India so clearly, you know, pointed out here.
 
So clearly in evidence both leaders heaping praise on each other. Biden calling their partnership a defining relationship of the 21st century what 
 
 do we take from that?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think, Becky, both sides are trying to present their own messages with this state visit. Modi 
 
 is trying to show that he has influence on the world stage, especially when it comes to an ally like the United States, while the President is trying 
 
 to show that.
 
He is really boosting and focusing on strengthening that relationship that they view as a strategic partnership especially when they look at trying to 
 
 find some counterbalances to China's growing influence in the region. Now, there had been a lot of concerns surrounding this visit when it comes to 
 
 Modi's human rights records.
 
And also this drifts towards authoritarianism in his country. In fact, when he spoke up on Capitol Hill and gave that address up there, there were at 
 
 least six Democratic members of Congress who boycotted the speech because of those issues. But there was a remarkable moment yesterday, as he stood 
 
 before reporters here at the White House.
 
It wasn't a given that they were going to have a joint press conference. And there had been these lengthy, delicate negotiations behind the scenes 
 
 where initially, Indian officials balked at the suggestion of having Modi appear before the press to take questions.
 
But he did take a very few questions including one very pointed question, which was questioning his own record when it comes to the crackdown on 
 
 political dissent in his country, as well as targeting of religious minorities. Now, Modi stood there and claimed that there was no 
 
 discrimination in his country.
 
And that it is essential that democracy thrives throughout India's blood. But some of those statements do run contrary to the record that has been 
 
 seen and talked about relating to Modi. But for the White House, they ultimately decided that there that was a necessary trade off that they 
 
 needed to make hosting him here.
 
Despite those human rights concerns as they are really trying to find other influence in the Asian region due to China's growing influence. I think it 
 
 was also noteworthy yesterday that President Biden did not back down from his recent labeling of Chinese President Xi Jinping as a dictator.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
The President said he doesn't think that comment thwarted their efforts to try to stabilize relations and that he still intends to try to meet with Xi 
 
 in the future. But even if the leaders aren't there standing on that stage, saying that this visit was about China is certainly served as the backdrop 
 
 for so much of the discussion.
 
Now in just about 30 minutes, we're expecting to see Prime Minister Modi here at the White House again. He and President Biden will be meeting with 
 
 tech leaders from industries relating to space, semiconductors, and also artificial intelligence, all of those industries quickly evolving.
 
And I think it just further highlights the focus that the White House has been trying to place this week on highlighting this relationship with India 
 
 as they're trying to seek a counterweight to China's influence.
 
ANDERSON: Yes, we've seen $100 million investment by Boeing in infrastructure and training in India, just one of the deals that been cut. 
 
 It's been fascinating to see this visit develop. And as you say, we'll close out today with a meeting with some top Indian and U.S. CEOs from top 
 
 tech companies. Thank you.
 
Well, a top Ukrainian official tells CNN the main thrust of its counter offensive against Russia has not even begun in earnest. The official said 
 
 it's "way too early to judge" whether it's working this after Western officials told CNN that the push is not meeting expectations.
 
Well, Ukraine says it is keeping Russia from advancing on the east and its making and I quote them here partial success in the south, where three 
 
 people were killed in Russian attacks today. Well in Southern Ukraine, Russia working to fix a key bridge damaged by Ukrainian strike.
 
The Chonhar Bridge is one of the few crossings between Crimea and the occupied South against the backdrop of the offensive. Matthew Chance looks 
 
 at how the strike is playing out in Russia.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): On Russian state television news of the latest Ukrainian strike punching 
 
 through a Key Bridge to Crimea. But military supply routes the anchor says which Ukraine hit with missiles to cut off instead of hiding the bad news. 
 
 Russia is using it to bolster support.
 
Kremlin appointed Governor of occupied Kherson was quickly at the scene to condemn the attack and blame the West. It's another senseless act by the 
 
 Kyiv regime at the behest of London, he says. But it will make no difference to the result of the special military operation what Russia 
 
 calls its war.
 
Along the vast front lines in Ukraine, a much anticipated counter offensive is seeing fierce but limited fighting. Some Ukrainian officials are pushing 
 
 back hard though, on Western assessments to CNN that expectations are not being met. One senior Ukrainian official telling CNN it's still way too 
 
 early to assess the overall trajectory.
 
What the official says was shaping operations. The real counter offensive the official told CNN has not even begun yet in earnest. Still, the Russian 
 
 Military is taking credit for holding Ukrainian forces back. Releasing dramatic images of what they say enemy positions being pounded, 
 
 characterizing the Ukrainian push as unsuccessful.
 
The Kremlin though is sending an unusual note of caution. Ukraine's offensive potential has not yet been exhausted, the Russian President warns 
 
 his defense officials. Its strategic reserves he says have not all been activated. It is recognition of what Ukrainian officials also insist. This 
 
 battle may be slow but it is far from over. Matthew Chance, CNN Kyiv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: You're watching "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson. Well the time is 29 minutes past 7. We're at Dubai few this evening just ahead 
 
 some startling comments about the Titan submersible from the Editor in Chief of Travel Weekly, what he says the OceanGate's CEO told him about the 
 
 haul.
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
And voters in Sierra Leone head to the poll on Saturday, we ramp in unemployment and run-away inflation why aren't they likely to vote for 
 
 change, more on that is after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. You're watching "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson. Your headlines this hour, just minutes from now Indian Prime 
 
 Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Joe Biden will meet the top business executives at the White House.
 
The two countries announced defense and technology agreements after the leaders met on Thursday. And they praised each other at a lavish steak 
 
 dinner as both leaders look to counter China's growing influence. Well, Ukraine's counter offensive against Russia hasn't started in earnest, a top 
 
 Ukrainian official effectively telling CNN to prepare for a long slow battle and not quick win.
 
This after Western allies frankly criticize the push is not meeting expectations. Ukraine's deputy defense minister says the drive is making 
 
 gradual progress. More pieces are coming to light in the investigation into the Titan tragedy.
 
Officials say both ends of the submersible pressure hull have been found near the Titanic shipwreck. Arnie Weissmann consider going on this, 
 
 OceanGate trip, but instead chose another mission in May that ended up being canceled. He spoke to my colleague Anderson Cooper about the 
 
 company's CEO said he got this sub's hull material from Boeing on a discount. Have a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ARNIE WEISSMANN, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, TRAVEL WEEKLY: One night, we went out in the stern of the ship and just sat and talked and he told me sort of his 
 
 life story. And part of that was that when he got the carbon fiber from Boeing, and he said this was material that had originally been planned for 
 
 aircraft use for building airplanes, but that it had passed a date that it can be used for that.
 
And so his implication was they had stuff they wanted to get rid of, but it was past its sell by date. So that gave me pause, because I was at that 
 
 point still I was on the polar prints are still hoping to die. And this was in May. And so when I asked him about I said, isn't that a concern?
 
He said, listen, you know, we have partnered with NASA. We've partnered with Boeing on this with pressure. We put it in a pressure tank. We've done 
 
 deep dives. You said initially when it was in the pressure tank, there were all sorts of noises that was sort of just pinged and made noises, but that 
 
 those noises stopped after a couple of times in the testing. You know, and it did give me pause.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
And, frankly, if, if it weren't for the presence of Paul Henry, I don't know that I would have felt quite so confident.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, NASA, Boeing and the University of Washington deny they had anything to do with designing the submersible. Millions in Sierra Leone are 
 
 expected to head to the polls on Saturday to choose their next leader, incumbent Julius Maada Bio is seeking a second term in office.
 
He was elected in 2018 after defeating Samura Kamara of the main opposition party in a runoff election. And in Sunday's election, Kamara is once again 
 
 by his biggest challenger. Well, tomorrow's vote comes to Sierra Leone is caught in an economic crisis with inflation and unemployment soaring and 
 
 the country's currency plunging in value. My colleague Stephanie Busari has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): These Sierra Leoneans are calling up for change, as the West African state heads to the polls to 
 
 elect a new president on June 24. Among the issues citizens are battling, a soaring cost of living and massive unemployment with inflation sitting at 
 
 around 37 percent in April, according to the IMF.
 
AMINATA FANTA KOROMA, OPPOSITION PARTY MEMBER: The -- is tight. And we have not seen any prospects that these things are coming down because -- 
 
 inflation is very high and -- is very high.
 
BUSARI (voice over): Around 3.3 million less than half the population is registered to vote in this, the fifth election since the end of the 
 
 country's brutal decade long civil war 21 years ago. At the current state of the country spilling over in August last year, with more than 20 people 
 
 killed in anti-government protests across Sierra Leone. Incumbent President, Julius Maada Bio's view of those protests.
 
JULIUS MAADA BIO, SIERRA LEONE PRESIDENT: This was not a protest against the high cost of living. The chant of the insurrection is also a violent 
 
 overthrow of the democratically elected government.
 
BUSARI (voice over): Former Sierra Leonean child soldier, an author and Human Rights Activist Ishmael Beah says the mood in a country is not a 
 
 hopeful.
 
ISHMAEL BEAH, AUTHOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVIST: Even as we lead towards election, the security situation has gotten tense in the way that you have 
 
 more presence of armed police on the military that are basically patrolling the streets as if going to an election is also going to war.
 
BUSARI (voice over): And one of the 12 candidates challenging Ishmael Beah in the general election is the leader of the opposition or People's 
 
 Congress Party, Samura Kamara.
 
SAMURA KAMARA, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I want to call all Sierra Leoneans to come out and vote on the 24th, come rain, come sunshine, come the usual 
 
 barrage of bullets, or come anything else, to protect their votes.
 
BUSARI (voice over): The 72-year-old former cabinet minister is facing trial on corruption charges, which he denied. If convicted, Kamara would be 
 
 barred from holding public office. He appeared before court in April, but the case has been adjourned until after the general election. If denying 
 
 Maada Bio's in here dancing in the rain on the campaign trail has promised if reelected to feed the nation and credit half a million jobs for young 
 
 people in five years.
 
For the people of a country that has faced so much tragedy, its future is by no means decided. Stephanie Busari, CNN Lagos.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, a horrific scene is playing out in the Darfur region of Sudan. And I want to warn you the images that we are about to show you are 
 
 very disturbing, but we think it's important to show the reality of this conflict. These are reports of hundreds of bodies littering the streets of 
 
 the capital of West Darfur.
 
Fighting has spiked recently between Sudanese armed forces and local militia. It is hard to get confirmed information because communications to 
 
 the region have been cut off. But some refugees say civilians trying to flee the conflict are being actively targeted by paramilitary groups.
 
Last week, the Rapid Support Forces, the RSF paramilitary group told CNN that the violence in West Darfur is a result of, "Tribal clashes", the 
 
 story we continue to follow. Ahead on "Connect the World" the prospect of Israel and Saudi Arabia normalizing relations. Can it happen will it happen 
 
 amid escalating violence in the West Bank? I'll talk about that with the former U.S. Ambassador to Israel, Martin Indyk, that's coming up after 
 
 this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: It's been a violent week in the occupied West Bank deadly raid by the IDF in Jenin saw the use of Israeli attack helicopters. And Palestinian 
 
 militants using IEDs, seven Palestinians were killed as a result. Then there was an attack, a deadly attack on Israelis in the settlement of Eli, 
 
 killing for and further apparent revenge attacks by Israeli settlers followed that against Palestinians.
 
All of this coming Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hopes to normalizes relations with Saudi Arabia. So tonight we ask how the 
 
 escalating violence in the West Bank will impact any chances of normalization with the Saudis. And why is that so important to Prime 
 
 Minister Benjamin Netanyahu?
 
Well, my next guest is former U.S. Ambassador to Israel, Martin Indyk. He says Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wants a rapprochement with 
 
 the Saudis so badly, he can taste it. However, he says, "The Saudis are supposed to deliver the Muslim world, but if the U.S. lets MBS the Crown 
 
 Prince, the Saudi Crown Prince leave the Palestinians behind the whole thing becomes unstable".
 
Martin Indyk joins us now from New York. And we have to start by saying, you know, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is sticking to its line that says no 
 
 talk or thoughts of rapprochement or normalization with Israel until the Palestinian issue is dealt with. What do you make of this current 
 
 escalation on the west bank at present? And is settler policy here to blame?
 
MARTIN INDYK, FORMER U.S. SPECIAL ENVOY FOR ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN NEGOTIATIONS: Well, the current escalation has been going on pretty much 
 
 for the whole of this year for the last six months. And we've seen it coming and going, waxing and waning. But when it erupts as it has in the 
 
 last few days, as you described it, it really looks like it gets out of control.
 
Because the Palestinian terrorist attacks provoked by Israeli raids to pick up the terrorists that kill Palestinians and then the Israeli settlers come 
 
 back in and raid villages and essentially conduct programs. The whole situation looks like it's, it's out of control. And it is very hard to see 
 
 how it's going to be put back in the box because the Palestinian authority is crumbling. Palestinian Security Forces are not operating in these areas 
 
 of the northern West Bank around Jenin and Nablus.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
And when the Israeli army has to go into take care of business that produces this kind of result. So how that impacts Saudis and the effort by 
 
 President Biden to try to achieve in short order pace between Israel and Saudi Arabia, I think, is kind of clear. It makes it very difficult to 
 
 proceed.
 
And we already see today that Morocco, a country that fully normalized with Israel has canceled an Abraham accords session that was going to be held in 
 
 Morocco, precisely because of this kind of violence in the West Bank.
 
ANDERSON: Let's remind ourselves, the original Abraham accords were signed and the UAE where I am very much part of the momentum for these Abraham 
 
 accords was signed on the understanding that Israel would step back from its illegal settlement policy. The UAE Ambassador Washington, famously 
 
 penning an op-ed in the Israeli press, making that very point back in the May before these Abraham accords were signed in the summer of 2020.
 
And you point out now that the negative summit, the negative summit that was the next phase of which was supposed to be held in Morocco will now be 
 
 postponed. How bigger priority is normalization, between Israel and Saudi, for this U.S. administration, first question? And secondly, how far away do 
 
 you believe the kingdom is from a decision on normalization at this point?
 
INDYK: Well, President Biden, I think, influenced by the diplomatic coup that the Chinese pulled off a surprise move of this brokering of a 
 
 rapprochement between Iran and Saudi Arabia, I think is looking for a win when it comes to the Gulf. And Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia has indicated 
 
 to his advisors that he's ready for this, ready to do it with President Biden, and ready to try to do it this year.
 
So the president has decided to go for it, as you said before Netanyahu wants it. The Crown Prince wants it and the president wants it. Those three 
 
 leaders should be able to pull it off if they're determined to do it. But the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia has a high price.
 
He wants a security guarantee from the United States something like a NATO Article Five commitment to Saudi Arabia. He wants free flow of arms, 
 
 including F-35s from the United States. And he wants the United States to green light an independent Saudi uranium enrichment capability.
 
And, and that's what he's demanding. He has said both to his Israeli and American interlocutors that he "Doesn't care about the Palestinians". But 
 
 as you mentioned in your intro, the Saudi foreign minister is out there every other day, making clear that there has to be a pathway to a solution 
 
 for the Palestinians, and significant progress in that direction for the Saudis to fully normalize.
 
So the Saudis seem to be talking out on both sides of their mouth saying one thing in private and something else in public. I know that's shocking. 
 
 But as a consequence, the president has decided to see if he can pull this all together in the next six months.
 
ANDERSON: That's fascinating. The escalating violence, of course, as you rightly point out, coming at a time of reconciliation between Iran and the 
 
 Gulf, brokered by China. And this idea of a sort of rapprochement or, you know, normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia, it certainly seems to 
 
 be the next sort of the next peg of that, as it were.
 
What do you make of any suggestions of a China or Beijing brokering, of any sort of deal between Israel and Palestine at this point? I'm hearing talk 
 
 of that in this region.
 
INDYK: Yes, indeed. And it's not surprising because the Chinese are sending envoys out, they just received Abu Mazen, the Palestinian leader and they 
 
 appear to want to try, I wish them good luck. The basic problem they would have is that they don't have influence over Israel. The United States 
 
 difficulty enough in trying to influence this far right government in Israel with Israel's heavy dependence on the United States.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
It's hard to see how China could convince this Israeli government to act differently in the circumstances. So I wish them luck, but I don't believe 
 
 they're going to succeed. But if you just step back for a moment, and think about how, how this is all giving policymakers whiplash, not just in 
 
 Washington, but I think around the region, here we have the President of the UAE Mohamed bin Zayed shaking hands with the Iranian foreign minister 
 
 in Abu Dhabi.
 
They were sworn enemies as little as a year ago. China is brokering a rapprochement between Iran and Saudi Arabia. And now the United States is 
 
 going to try to broker a full peace between Saudi Arabia and Israel. You know, we wouldn't be surprised I'm joking, of course. So, we wake up one 
 
 day and discovered that Israel and Iran have a rapprochement.
 
ANDERSON: You clearly are joking, just to be quite clear for our viewers. Martin, it's good to have you on. It's always extremely insightful, having 
 
 you on the show. And this is a, it's a complicated region. It's such an important one.
 
And what is going on here in this region of the Gulf and the wider Middle East at the moment really is, you know, stuff of legends as it were, I 
 
 mean, it's -- there are such changes. So such shifts of the tectonic plates, having you as a friend of the show to help us sort of unpicks the 
 
 pieces is absolutely crucial. Thank you very much indeed.
 
And to Martin's point, Iran's top diplomat was in Abu Dhabi on Thursday, meeting with the President of the UAE Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed, the two 
 
 leaders shared ideas. We are told on strengthening cooperation between the two countries.
 
Iranian state news reports Iran sees no limits to expanding ties with the UAE, the visit, part of the Iranian foreign ministers Persian Gulf tour. 
 
 Interesting times, we will be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Brazil's highest electoral court is deciding the political fate of Jair Bolsonaro. The former Brazilian president's trial started on 
 
 Thursday. He is accused of abusing his political power last year, when he publicly launched unfounded attacks on the country's electoral system to 
 
 foreign diplomats.
 
He has belittled the trial and said the charges aren't justified. If convicted, he could be ineligible to run for public office for up to eight 
 
 years. Bolsonaro lost last year's election by a narrow margin to current President Luis Inacio de Silva.
 
Romanian quarters rule social media influence Andrew Tate is to remain under house arrest for the time being. Tate and his brother were charged 
 
 earlier this week with human trafficking with rape and with forming a gang to sexually exploit women. While leaving the courthouse today, he told 
 
 reporters he has no intention of leaving Romania, because it is his home.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
Thousands of Starbucks workers in the U.S. are on strike today. They are angry that the company is allowing some stores to restrict decorations to 
 
 celebrate the LGBTQ community during pride month. The strike has come from about 150 Starbucks stores that are unionized.
 
Starbucks says it leaves these decoration decisions up to local store managers. You've been watching CNN, I'm Becky Anderson. From the team 
 
 working with me here in Dubai today and those working with us around the world, it is a very good evening. CNN of course continues after this short 
 
 break. So don't go away. We'll see you same time, same place later.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END