Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Nearly Two Thousand Housing Units Available For Displaced Families; DA: Trump, 18 Others "Joined A Conspiracy To Unlawfully Change" Outcome Of 2020 Election In Georgia; Ex-NFL Player Michael Oher Says "Blind Side" Family Never Adopted Me. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired August 15, 2023 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00]
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: The federal indictment that Trump's facing over 2020 election subversion. Mark Meadows was noticeably absent from that federal indictment over the election. He's -- Mark Meadows is charged in this indictment in Georgia.
 
JOEY JACKSON, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: Right.
 
BOLDUAN: Should people take something from that?
 
SHAN WU, DEFENSE ATTORNEY: No. There's been a lot of speculation that Meadows being missing from the federal indictment means that he's cooperating as possible. It's not an unreasonable assumption. However, I will say from the point of view of both the prosecutor and defense attorney, it would be inexplicable to me that he cuts some kind of deal to cooperate in the federal case. But yet he's full-blown charged in the state case.
 
I'm not sure what his defense counsel would be up to if that was the situation. I mean, they are very different indictments, even though it's the same set of facts. And in many ways, I think that you know the Georgia indictment is the case that Jack Smith would have brought. He might still bring it if he had more time because it names all these people.
 
And as Joey was pointing out, that can make it a lot more complicated too because there are legitimate reasons why you couldn't get the scheduling together now with this many defendants. And maybe that was part of why the federal strategy was to streamline at more only charging Trump. But as to Meadows, it's very puzzling to me that he's missing from one but fully present in the other.
 
BOLDUAN: It is interesting. For both of you if we have a -- if we have the time. This case is unique as Ben pointed out because -- unique amongst the indictments if you will because it is basically for -- I'll sum it up really, probably to basically but it's pardoned proof. And given how unprecedented though this could be a state case moving ahead after an election is decided for -- 
 
JACKSON: Yes.
 
BOLDUAN: -- you know a federal election for the president being decided just adding all of how unprecedented it is, even though we know what -- that it is essentially pardon-proof in Georgia. Is there any gray area here?
 
JACKSON: So, there could be, right? And so think about this. I think it goes back to the point of this a lot at stake. Of course, everywhere, right, in terms of all the various indictments that Trump has.
 
But this is so much at stake for the reason you mentioned. You talk about the issue of pardon. The federal cases, of course, that's an open question as to whether the president will pardon himself if he becomes president, the former president that is, right? But I'm sure he will attempt to do that, right? In New York, many people are not so high on that case.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes.
 
JACKSON: Thinking, you know, it's not that significant. This Georgia case is the real deal. It lays out chapter and verse in so many things right, between witness tampering and this criminal enterprise and directing people to state legislatures and false electors. And so the question for me, Kate, if it's going to move forward, is when that might be.
 
And so, it may make sense to have this go up further in the pecking order. Think about this, in the event that there's an election and it's over and Trump serves as president, who knows what happens with this case at the end of the day?
 
BOLDUAN: Right.
 
JACKSON: Because he's not going to be tried as president. All of those are so relevant considerations. So many. And since to your point, it's unprecedented. We just don't know where it lies.
 
BOLDUAN: So interesting. Good to see you, Joey. Shan, it's great to see. Thank you.
 
WU: Good to see.
 
BOLDUAN: John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: So, Kate, the death toll from the wildfires on Maui has climbed to 99. And officials fear that number could double.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:37:43]
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: There is so much suffering but help is pouring in from all around the world for those affected by the devastating Maui wildfires. Officials say two thousand housing units have been secured for people whose homes and businesses were destroyed by the flames. Right now, the confirmed death toll is at 99 but that number is expected to go up as search efforts continue. Red Cross National Spokesman Evan Peterson joins us now from a volunteer site on Maui this morning. You know, we have seen some of these devastating pictures but when you are there and you come across this enormous amount of destruction, what do you see? What is it like being there right now?
 
EVAN PETERSON, NATIONAL SPOKESPERSON, AMERICAN RED CROSS: As you've seen these images, as you've heard these testimonies, whether you're on Maui or any of the other islands here in Hawaii, it's impossible not to be impacted by this. When I was flying in yesterday, I was speaking to a gentleman who was actually in Maui on a boat by coincidence when the fire broke out in his area. And he talked about just feeling so helpless as he saw the flames go through this area but also so fortunate because he doesn't know what would have happened to him had he not been on that boat.
 
And we're hearing so many stories of this about how people were running, were by coincidence, someplace safe, and it's so traumatic. And the same end, it's why we're so fortunate. We can be here as an organization that lends an ear and a handout to these people to meet them where they are and give them the services that they needed.
 
SIDNER: Yes, there are the physical needs and then there are the emotional and psychological needs after something like this. I do want to ask you. What is the most immediate need? What do people need now that they may not be getting, or how do they get it?
 
PETERSON: I would say, one of the biggest challenges we are facing right now is just dealing with connectivity on the island. Internet connection, and electricity in certain areas are spotty at best. So, we've been telling and asking a lot of people whether you need to spend the night at one of our shelters here or you need just to recharge your devices, come to our shelters. We have outlets and charging ports for you. Get those charges, so that way, if you're able to try and begin that reconnection process with family and loved ones.
 <br>[11:40:03]
 
You're able to, by chance, find a bar of service. You're able to jump at that opportunity and try to make that call, send that text messages. And our shelters are great sites for that, and being connected with numerous other resources.
 
SIDNER: Only 25 percent of the area on Maui has been able to be searched. This is painful and theoretical. How do you reach people? Because there are problems with connectivity. There have been problems with people trying to get the help that they need or know where to go. What are some of the things that the Red Cross is doing to try to make that happen?
 
PETERSON: So, since day one and even well before this wildfire started, our organization has been on the ground here in these communities and staying in constant communication with community partners, different organizations on the island, as well as county and state officials. So, word of mouth is a really big part of that. You know, people are talking to their neighbors, they're talking to their family members, and if we can get some information in one of their hands, we know that we'll be disseminated out into the community.
 
We're also when it's safe when we are told by officials and firefighting crews that it is safe to go out into certain areas, obviously, there's still a danger and a threat there. But once it's safe, we are sending our volunteers out in there to deliver service in person. So, by doing that, by staying constant and opening ourselves up to all lines of communication, whether it be the in-person or people calling our 1-800-RedCross number, we are trying to meet people where they are.
 
SIDNER: What is it the people from outside of Hawaii can do to try and aid this effort?
 
PETERSON: One of the best ways people can support our mission here is that a lot -- some people may not know this, but the Red Cross does not charge people anything to receive our services, to partake in some of the opportunities we have to help people. We don't charge them anything. And a big way we're able to do that is because of financial gifts. If someone is seeing this, whether they're on the island or back on the mainland, and they want to support our mission, the best way to do that is to make a financial donation.
 
There are three ways to go about doing that. First, you can go to redcross.org and make a financial donation there. You can call that number 1-800-RedCross. So, that's 1-800-733-2767, and make a donation there for disaster relief. Or if you want an even easier way, text the word Hawaii to 90999 and it will automatically make a $10 donation to support people impacted by these wildfires.
 
SIDNER: Evan Peterson, thank you for being there. We are looking at pictures of people coming and donating everything from clothes to toys to food. I know that water has been an issue for some people. Thank you so much for explaining what is going on in that terribly devastated area.
 
And if you want more information on how you can help, you can go to cnn.com/impact. Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Coming up for us. Now, the latest indictment coming out of Georgia is putting a spotlight on the Fulton County District Attorney. More about Fani Willis, the prosecutor who spearheaded this two-year investigation and now this 98-page criminal indictment. We'll be back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:47:37]
 
BERMAN: This morning, Donald Trump is lashing out against Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis. He has accused her of being a racist and claims the case against him is politically motivated. Willis says she's doing her job. She is the first female District Attorney in Fulton County, which does include Atlanta, and she's not shy about taking on high-profile cases. CNN's Randi Kaye has her story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FANI WILLIS, FULTON COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY: It doesn't matter if you're rich, poor, black, white, Democrat or Republican. If you violated the law, you're going to be charged.
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis talking about her investigation into Donald Trump's alleged attempt to influence Georgia's 2020 election. At the center of it all, a phone call Trump had with Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger after the election.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I just want to find 11,780 votes which is one more that we have because we won the state.
 
WILLIS: I'm very thankful that you are here.
 
KAYE (voiceover): When that call was made, Willis had only been in office for one day. Ever since she's been leading the charge on the investigation.
 
WILLIS: Been working for two and a half years. And we're ready to go.
 
KAYE (voiceover): Ready to go. And in the process, ruffling Trump's feathers.
 
TRUMP: In Georgia, the racist district attorney goes after me for a perfect phone call. This woman is not a capable woman. She's a racist. And this is a person that wants to indict me.
 
KAYE (voiceover): Those accusations of racism, unfounded. Team Trump also included Willis in this ad called the fraud squad.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And Biden's newest lackey, Atlanta DA, Fani Willis.
 
KAYE (voiceover): Despite it all, Willis hardly seems rattled by Trump's continued attacks.
 
WILLIS: It's ridiculous in nature, but I support his right to be protected by the First Amendment and say what he likes.
 
KAYE (voiceover): Since investigating Trump, Willis says she's been subjected to racist taunts.
 
WILLIS: I've never been called the N-word so much in my life.
 
KAYE (voiceover): Willis, a Democrat, was elected Fulton County's first female district attorney after ousting a sixth-term incumbent in a primary.
 
WILLIS: The solution to this problem -- 
 
KAYE (voiceover): She built a name for herself as a leading prosecutor in the Atlanta Public School cheating scandal, securing convictions for 11 of the 12 defendants. In her first two years in office, Willis has juggled investigating Trump and subpoenaing some of his top allies, while also going after gangs like drug rich. [11:50:02]
 
She's also handed down racketeer, influenced, and corrupt organizations indictments to popular rappers, including Young Thug and Gunna. Willis has cited the rapper's song lyrics as evidence in the indictments against them. Something her critics say infringes on First Amendment rights.
 
WILLIS: I have some legal advice. Don't confess to crimes on rap lyrics if you do not want them use, or at least get out of my county.
 
KAYE: Willis was born in California. Her name, Fani, in Swahili, it means prosperous. After her parents' divorce, she was raised primarily by her father. He was a criminal defense attorney and member of the Black Panther Party.
 
KAYE (voiceover): After attending Howard University, she graduated from Emory University School of Law in 1996. She worked in the private sector for a time, then joined the Fulton County Prosecutor's Office in 2001. According to The New York Times, a spokesperson says that since Willis became DA, her office's conviction rate has stood at close to 90 percent.
 
WILLIS: I truly believe God personally selected me for this moment in time, and I'm going to do the job that I'm blessed to be able to do.
 
KAYE (voiceover): Randi Kaye, CNN, Atlanta.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BOLDUAN: Randi, thank you so much for that. Coming up for us.
 
Retired NFL star, Michael Oher, whose story is the inspiration behind the book and the film, "The Blind Side." He claims a key part of his life's story was a lie. And it's now the center of a legal fight that he's waging. What he's saying? Next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:56:15]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEIGH ANNE TUOHY, CHARACTER: This team is your family, Michael. When you look at him, you think of me. How you have my back. Are you going to protect the family, Michael?
 
MICHAEL OHER, CHARACTER: Yes, Mom.
 
TUOHY: S.J., you're going to want to get this.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERMAN: So, this morning, controversy surrounding the smash hit film "The Blind Side," and accusations that it was basically a lie. Former NFL player Michael Oher, the inspiration behind the film states in a new petition that Sean and Leigh Anne Tuohy told him they were going to adopt him. If you saw the movie, you remember that part. They told him they were going to adopt him, but never did. Brynn Gingras with us now with this story.
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Anyone evokes so much emotion, right? Sara and I are just talking. This is such a beloved movie.
 
And what Michael Oher is saying is it was all based on a bit of a lie there that he wasn't adopted. Instead, when he signed that paperwork at the table with the family, it was actually to sign over conservatorship to the family. I'm going to read part of the document that was filed in court in Tennessee.
 
It says total control for Michael Oher's ability to negotiate for or enter any contract despite the fact he was over 18 years of age and had no diagnosed physical or psychological disabilities. Of course, the word conservatorship we're very much aware of because of Britney Spears.
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
GINGRAS: And actually, the Tuohy family is bringing that up wondering why now. Because what we're learning is that he actually, Michael Oher, just found out about this basically in February that he was under this conservatorship rather than going through the process of ever being adopted, which he wasn't. Now, the Tuohy family says they are devastated by this and that they are willing to just say hey, OK, you don't need to be a part of the family. That's what you want.
 
I do want to read what they have said to this. He said it's upsetting to think we would make money off of any of our children. But we're going to love Michael at 37 just like we loved him at 16. The big thing here is apparently also according to these documents, he also signed over his name like less an image. Like this, I think.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes.
 
SIDNER: Yes. Less an image.
 
GINGRAS: An image.
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
GINGRAS: And basically is saying the Touhys have been profiting all along from this. The movie made more than $330 million. That Tuohy say they didn't really actually make that much money off of that movie.
 
But he doesn't have ownership of basically a story that was based off of his life. And so, he wants his name back. He wants his image back. He wants everything back.
 
BOLDUAN: So, what happens then next? I mean, what -- that he's filed -- he's now filed to end the conservatorship?
 
GINGRAS: Yes, exactly. His files to the conservative ship. Basically, he is asked for a full accounting of how much money was earned from this movie, from the book, from anything else, anything that went to the family's nonprofit. And now the family is going to actually have to hand over all of those documents and says they're going to put a legal filing into response to this.
 
BERMAN: I was just going to say. The conservatorship is different than an adoption.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes.
 
GINGRAS: Yes.
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
BERMAN: And there's a financial aspect to it.
 
GINGRAS: Right.
 
BERMAN: And part of what Michael Oher is saying is also like some of the proceeds from the film were split by the Tuohys and their other children but not him.
 
GINGRAS: Right.
 
SIDNER: Not him.
 
GINGRAS: And not him. Right. And S.J. actually talked to bars -- SJ's their son. S.J. talked to Barstool Sports, saying that he has made in the last four or five years, you know, not so much money that Michael Oher thinks.
 
And you know, it's kind of sad, too, though, thinking about the movie. He says, you know, at the end of the day, we still love Michael. We don't want people to think differently about this film, and they'd like to solve this in court.
 
But it does seem like there's something else happening here. We should mention that Michael Oher actually has a book that is coming out as well, so that might be part of it. But a lot of questions to this that we're just going to have to see how it's played out in court.
 
SIDNER: Is there any indication that he found out about this just recently, maybe through researching his book? Had you had any idea how he found out that he was not adopted when he thought he was adopted after he signed those papers?
 
GINGRAS: Yes. I mean, that's the big question. I definitely reached out to his attorney multiple times to get answers. But yes, what was the -- what was the switch? I mean, he signed multiple NFL contracts.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes, right.
 
GINGRAS: At what point did he realize that he wasn't making all the money he should be making from his life story?
 
BERMAN: One of the things I think he is saying, at least in the media is when he was in the NFL playing football all the time, he didn't have time to think about all this other stuff.
 
GINGRAS: Yes.
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
GINGRAS: Right.
 <br>[12:00:06]
 
BERMAN: Now, that his career is over, he's only now realizing what took place beforehand, he says.
 
GINGRAS: Right. And it's important to know also that the Tuohy say that they were able to actually adopt him because he was 18 years old when this paperwork was signed. So, conservatorship was the only option. Especially because he went to Ole Miss. There was the whole -- you know we know from the film with -- you know all that could have happened there with NCAA guidelines. But yes. So, anyway, it's to be continued on this one, for sure.
 
SIDNER: Wow.
 
BERMAN: Brynn Gingras, thank you very much.
 
GINGRAS: All right.
 
SIDNER: And thank you for joining us. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. As you know, "INSIDE POLITICS" is up right now.