Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Zelenskyy Rallies for War Support in Canada; Canadian PM asks India to Cooperate in Murder Probe; New CNN Poll Finds Biden Leading Trump in New Hampshire; Two Arrests After Toddler Dies of a Fentanyl Overdose. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired September 22, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR NEWSROOM: Hello and welcome to CNN "Newsroom". I'm Max Foster in London. Just ahead, Ukraine's President arrives in Canada, fresh off his bumpy talks with U.S. lawmakers, details in just a moment. Also had a new CNN poll shows the Joe Biden leads Donald Trump and a potential New Hampshire rematch but dissatisfaction with both remains high.
 
CNN's Political Director joins us with a read on the new numbers and increased activity at nuclear test sites, in Russia, China, and the U.S., our exclusive report coming up. We begin in Crimea where Russian state media is accusing key of striking the headquarters of Russia's Black Sea Fleet in Sevastopol.
 
It says debris is scattered for hundreds of meters and ambulances are on the way so far. Ukraine hasn't commented. Crimea was illegally annexed by Russia in 2014. Bring you more on that as we get it in. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, meanwhile, is in Canada to rally support for his country's defense in its battle with Russia.
 
He and his wife were welcomed to Ottawa by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Later today he'll adjust the Canadian Parliament. His visit comes on the heels of his trip to Washington D.C. Mr. Zelenskyy left the U.S. with a promise of more than $300 million in new aid for the war effort.
 
U.S. President Joe Biden has proposed a much larger aid package but that's proving to be a hard sell to some Republican lawmakers. But in emotional remarks on Thursday, Mr. Zelenskyy made his case saying you give money we give lives.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: But American investment in Ukraine security and global protection of freedom is working 100 percent every cent.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Jeremy Diamond joins us from the White House with the details. The concern here being for Zelenskyy that there's one group of Republicans, I think that largely associated with Trump, aren't they are suggesting that, you know, they can't afford to keep getting this money and it's not having the effect that they want?
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, that's right. And what they are reflecting is the sentiment within the Republican base and among increasingly large share of Republican voters who are skeptical about continuing U.S. military assistance to Ukraine.
 
And so we're watching that now be reflected in a government given the fact that Republicans are now in the majority in the House. And all of that was on display. When you looked at the optics of Zelenskyy's visit yesterday, compared to the visit that he made nine months ago, when Democrats were still in charge of the House of Representatives.
 
It was pretty striking. I mean, the Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy, barely wanted to be seen in public with Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Whereas Nancy Pelosi, the previous Speaker invited Zelenskyy to deliver a primetime address to a joint session of Congress.
 
Nonetheless, yesterday's Zelenskyy got additional military aid from the U.S. government $325 million package which President Biden announced as he sat down to meet with President Zelenskyy in the Oval Office, this is going to include additional air defense capabilities, additional cluster munitions, anti-armor, anti-aircraft.
 
And the President also announced that those previously promised Abrams tanks will begin arriving in Ukraine next week. But the question is about the fate of this $24 billion request for additional funding for Ukraine that the Biden Administration has put in with Congress.
 
Now, to be clear, despite the fact that there is this very vocal minority of Republicans in the House expressing concerns and questions about whether they will support additional funding for Ukraine. Majorities in both the House and the Senate would indeed support that package.
 
The question is getting it to the floor given that the House Speaker Kevin McCarthy is in charge of what bills do and do not come up for a vote in the House. So it remains to be seen exactly how that will happen. But the Biden Administration that we heard it from the National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, as well as from President Biden yesterday, both of them expressing optimism that there will continue to be support for Ukraine for funding for Ukraine in Congress.
 
When a reporter yesterday tried to ask President Zelenskyy about whether he had received any assurances from Congress. It was President Biden who jumped in and said I'm counting on the good judgment of the United States Congress. He said there is no alternative, Max.
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
FOSTER: OK, Jeremy Diamond thank you for joining us from the White House and we're just hearing that a Russian soldier was killed in that Russian Black Sea Fleet headquarters attack. We mentioned at the top of the show. Katie is got more details, Katie?
 
KATIE POLGLASE, CNN INVESTIGATIVE PRODUCER: Yes, absolutely Max, is quite a significant attack. This is the headquarters of the Russian naval fleet in the Crimea. Now, we've been talking about attacks on Crimea, all of this week and last week, but this is potentially the most significant yet one Russian soldier killed.
 
That's according to the Russian Defense Ministry, and also a huge amount of debris, hundreds of meters of debris around this area. And you can see from those videos, the level of smoke the damage as well. This is clearly quite a major attack on quite a crucial piece of infrastructure for Russia's war effort here.
 
And let's not forget, just yesterday, we were talking about an attack on the Saki military airbase, there was 12 military aircraft being kept there. That was again targeted by Ukrainian attacks. Last week, we were talking about a ship repair facility, also in Sevastopol. All of this is key infrastructure Russia is using for its invasion of Ukraine.
 
And it has been repeatedly targeted by Ukraine in the last couple of weeks, and clearly it is escalating further, the real question is, how did they manage to do this, these areas are heavily secured by Russia. So to be able to target successfully from these videos, you can see the headquarters for Russia's naval fleet must surely be quite alarming for the Russian side, Max.
 
FOSTER: In terms of what's happening in Crimea, just explain the situation there why it's such a target for the Ukrainians?
 
POLGLASE: Well, this is one of the main hubs. It's a strategic hub for a lot of Russia's war effort. They store a lot of military equipment, clearly they store ships there. They also store ammunition. They train people on how to use drones. They also store all the ships that you're seeing this Black Sea naval fleet, all of this comes out of this area.
 
And they've been using it to then link up with other areas where this invasion is ongoing. So it's pretty crucial for Russia's war effort. But it's also notable that this is impacting civilians. We're hearing just this morning from the Russian appointed Governor of Sevastopol.
 
That they're telling people to stay inside residents to stay inside their building, seek shelter, don't go outside due to the debris. And not knowing if there was going to be a further attack. We're now hearing that the Russian governor is saying they're not likely to be a second missile attack.
 
But that is the level of fear here clearly that there has been repeated attacks in this area that is affecting Russian civilians as well. So clearly, quite a big impact that Ukrainians are having and notable as we're talking about all this diplomacy in the states, Ukraine, insisting that they are going to make a breakthrough with this counter offensive Zelenskyy saying early this week that they are nearing the finish line.
 
All of this is an indication that Ukraine is very seriously pushing for a breakthrough. These kinds of attacks on key pieces of Russian infrastructure really pointed up.
 
FOSTER: Katie Polglase, thank you back with you when we get more, a diplomatic round, meanwhile, between Canada and India showing no signs of easing. On Thursday, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau repeated his earlier claim, saying there were credible allegations that New Delhi had a possible role in the killing of a Sikh separatist leader in Canada in June.
 
First part India's Foreign Ministry leveled explosive allegations calling Canada a safe haven for terrorists. Both countries have expelled senior diplomats and taken other measures too. Vedika Sud joins us from New Delhi. Are there any efforts to try to calm this one down?
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: I don't think ties can be reset at this point, Max. It's far from that situation or expectation now, isn't it? Especially, after what he just said that very stern message that the Indian government sent out to Canada yesterday. I just want to take our viewers through that very strong worded comment from the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs here in India.
 
He said and "if you're talking about reputational damage, if there's a country that needs to look at this, I think it's Canada and its growing reputation as the place as a safe haven for terrorists and extremists and for organized crime. I think that's a country that needs to worry about its international reputation."
 
He was responding to a question by a reporter on how India feels or isn't they're concerned about its international reputation, after that very strong allegation by Justin Trudeau from the floor of the House on Monday. Now, two big developments of the last 24 hours one of course, is that India has temporarily suspended Visas to Canadian nationals.
 
Not only those who are living in Canada, Max, but also outside Canada. And the other development is that the Canadian High Commission here in New Delhi has confirmed that they will be downsizing the diplomatic presence in India in the coming days and responding to that the Indian government had said that, yes that was the directive.
 
Or rather something that they had relayed to Canada because they want to make sure that "disparity in rank", they want the same number of people from Canada in terms of diplomats in India as they have in Canada.
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
Now the White House has also reacted this is from Thursday, where they have said that they cannot divulge any details on whether the President of the United States of America has already spoken to the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, or will be speaking to him. Here's what the National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan had to say to reporters.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR: I'm not going to get into private diplomatic conversations that have either already happened or are going to happen on this topic, only to say that we have been and will be in contact with the Indians at high levels on this issue.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD: The White House has repeatedly called on India to cooperate with the investigation with Canada, Max, but the Indian government on Thursday said they haven't heard or got any further details from Canada at this point. And the big question really is not only from people who are criticizing Trudeau's move here in India, but even the opposition parties in Canada, where is the evidence to back Trudeau's claims, back to you?
 
FOSTER: Vedika, thank you. Now, a brand new CNN poll is out on President Biden's reelection chances in the potential swing state of New Hampshire. It shows the Biden has a 12 point advantage over Donald Trump and a hypothetical rematch 52 to 40. That's a much wider margin than the national polls, which has shown the two in a neck and neck race.
 
Let's go straight to CNN Political Director David Chalian with more on this. Thank you so much for joining us on the show with your knowledge on this obviously crucial to President Biden will be independence. How does he stand on that?
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Yes, that is true. And you noted a swing state it seems to be a blue leaning swing state. Remember, a Hillary Clinton edged out Donald Trump here in 16. And Joe Biden pretty handily defeated Donald Trump three years ago here, but 52 percent to 40 percent, 8 percent unsure you mentioned independence, Max.
 
Actually, Donald Trump is besting Joe Biden by six percentage points 45 to 39 percent, among independents so why is Biden leading? We'll take a look here he's got near universal support among his own Democrats. 94 percent supporting him in this matchup against Trump, whereas Donald Trump only has 79 percent support among his own.
 
So even his advantage among independents can overwhelm what Democrats are doing for Joe Biden there. However, we should note both of these candidates, Max, are widely unpopular. We ask people would you feel negatively or positively if one won the presidency 56 percent says they'd feel negatively if Joe Biden won.
 
Even worse, 62 percent said they feel negatively if Donald Trump won in New Hampshire, same when you look at their overall favorable and unfavorable ratings. They are underwater, Joe Biden 35 percent of New Hampshire voters have a favorable opinion, 53 percent unfavorable.
 
That's a net negative of 18 points there. But Donald Trump favors worse, only 30 percent favorable, 62 percent unfavorable, 32 negative percentage difference there. And Joe Biden, as you noted, he performs better against Trump in New Hampshire than he does nationally. So too, does his overall job approval appear better in New Hampshire at 46 percent? Approve, then we see around 39 or 40 nationally.
 
FOSTER: As I understand that there's a chance that Biden won't even appear there on the primary ballot in New Hampshire. Can you just explain why that is and what difference it would make?
 
CHALIAN: Yes. Joe Biden and his allies in the Democratic National Committee here wanted to change the order the traditional order of how the primaries run. They wanted South Carolina to go first you remember that was the state that propelled him to the nomination. So if indeed, New Hampshire does not go first, or in fact, if it tries to go first, Joe Biden said he won't be on the ballot.
 
But look, he's crushing his Democratic competition. 78 percent of Democrats in New Hampshire support him only 9 percent for Kennedy 6 percent for Williamson. And to the point about the ballot 69 percent of New Hampshire Democrats, Max, say they would write in Joe Biden, if indeed he didn't appear on the New Hampshire ballot.
 
FOSTER: And do you have any numbers on the Vice President, Harris?
 
CHALIAN: Yes, we did test Kamala Harris and how New Hampshire voters feel about her. So this is among Democratic primary voters. I just want to note here if you add these together, 63 percent are either enthusiastic or satisfied with Harris as Joe Biden's running mate.
 
But 26 percent are either dissatisfied or angry a quarter of likely Democratic voters dissatisfied or angry. Overall, if you look at the electorate overall, she's underwater as well. Only 23 percent of New Hampshire voters have a favorable opinion of Vice President Harris, 54 percent a majority have an unfavorable opinion and about a quarter are not sure or they are neutral, Max.
 
FOSTER: It is going to be fascinating. CNN Political Director David Chalian, thank you so much for bringing us the numbers.
 
CHALIAN: Thank you.
 
FOSTER: Britain's King Charles a third, putting the environment on center stage yet again.
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
As he wraps up a three day state visit to France pitches hear from Bordeaux which is the second leg of his trip. The King and Queen Camilla will visit a sustainable vineyard in the heart of wine country. Of course on Thursday the 74 year old sovereign made history as he became the first British monarch to make a speech from the French Senate chamber.
 
He praised the bonds between the U.S., the U.K. rather, and France switching between French and English. Bordeaux by the way is the place where most Brits live in France. So there's a big connection there too. We'll be back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is due to deliver his speech to the U.N. General Assembly in about an hour's time. It comes at an important moment in Middle East peace efforts with the U.S. pushing for normalize relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia.
 
In his speech on Thursday, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas warned there can be no peace without Palestinian rights. Let's bring in CNN's Hadas Gold with more from Jerusalem. What are you looking for, Hadas?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Now on the next hour. So when we will hear Benjamin Netanyahu give this speech, we do expect him to touch upon some of the themes that he often makes these types of speeches, especially around them the threat posed not only to Israel, but to the world from Iran.
 
Not only their nuclear program, but also their activities in the region for supporting groups like Hezbollah. But I think what we will really be listening for in this speech is his comments about this possible normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia that this past week, Max, has just exploded onto the forefront after that interview with the Crown Prince and Fox News.
 
And Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is meeting with Joe Biden. And what I'm going to be listening to is not only his calls that this should be expedited, this is a once in an opportunity, like once in a lifetime opportunity that they have to get this done. But what he will say regarding things like the Palestinians, because we know that something for the Palestinians has to be done in this deal.
 
But there is a major question about what can Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu offers the Palestinians that they will accept that the Saudis will accept, that could actually get through his current government because his current government, you know, those people sitting around him at that cabinet, those ministers?
 
These are some of the most right wing extremist ministers in Israeli history. Some of them have said things like they don't think the Palestinian Authority should even exist. So what, if anything, could he offer them in reality that he could get through his own government or would he be potentially willing?
 
And I don't think he'll say this in his speech, but to destroy his coalition in order to get this through. Now, what's really notable is what we didn't hear from the Crown Prince in his interview earlier this week, saying that he didn't necessarily talk about a Palestinian state.
 
He just talked about how they need to ease the life of the Palestinians and get Israel as a player in the Middle East. We heard a direct response to that yesterday from the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, when he said, as you alluded to, that those that think peace can prevail in the Middle East without the Palestinians and join for legitimate national rights would be mistaken.
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
But I mean, what a week for Benjamin Netanyahu. He's been facing a lot back here in Israel. There have been those regular protests against the judicial overhaul. We do expect him to address the judicial overhaul in some way in his speech, but this week could not have gone almost any better for Benjamin Netanyahu.
 
He got his meeting with President Biden. We have the Crown Prince saying he'll work with whoever it is, even with Benjamin Netanyahu on this normalization deal, and now he gets to cap it off with his speech at the United Nations, Max.
 
FOSTER: Hadas, thank you. Still ahead at a time when tensions are high between the three major nuclear powers or Russia, China and the U.S. expanding their nuclear test sites, new satellite images and the CNN exclusive coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Police in New York have too much custody after a one year old boy died of a suspected fentanyl overdose that his daycare. Investigators searching the daycare discovered a trap door underneath a play area. In it they found eight to 10 kilograms of fentanyl, other narcotics and drug paraphernalia.
 
Two people are now charged in the case. Police say the two were part of a group that ran a fentanyl distribution business out of that very daycare. Now according to new satellite images obtained by CNN three of the world's biggest nuclear powers have recently constructed new facilities and dug new tunnels their test sites.
 
CNN Senior International Correspondent Ivan Watson has more on what this might signal?
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The world's three most powerful militaries, the U.S., Russia and China have all been expanding their nuclear testing sites in recent years. The evidence revealed in these commercial satellite images obtained exclusively by CNN.
 
WATSON: These are the Russian Chinese and American nuclear testing sites. Novaya Zemlya, a Russian Archipelago in the Arctic Ocean locked nor a dried up Salt Lake in China's Xinjiang region, and the Nevada National Security site in a desert northwest of Las Vegas. Images from each location show new tunnels, roads and storage facilities constructed within the last five years.
 
WATSON (voice-over): Nuclear Nonproliferation expert Jeffrey Lewis first collected and analyzed these images.
 
JEFFERY LEWIS, JAMES MARTIN CENTER FOR NONPROLIFERATION STUDIES: One big factor for both the United States but also Russia and China is a desire to make sure the nuclear weapons that they designed and tested in the 1980s and 1990s are still works. CEDRIC LEIGHTON, RETIRED U.S. AIR FORCE COL.: All three countries, Russia, China and the United States have invested a great deal of time, effort and money in not only modernizing their nuclear arsenals, but also in preparing the types of activities that would be required for a test.
 
WATSON (voice-over): While there's no evidence of an imminent test. Russia's Novaya Zemlya site did see a burst of new construction over the last two years on the one year anniversary of his full scale invasion of Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin declared Russia's readiness to conduct nuclear tests.
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA: Some figures in Washington we know this for a fact are already thinking about the possibility of a natural test on their nuclear weapons. If the U.S. conducts tests we will do so too.
 <br>[08:25:00]
 
WATSON (voice-over): This time lapse reveals five years of above ground expansion of the U1a complex and underground facility at the testing site in Nevada, a spokesperson from the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration confirmed to CNN that it is, "Recapitalizing infrastructure and scientific capabilities at the U1a complex."
 
Adding, "The United States has not conducted a nuclear explosive test since 1992 and has no plans to do so." Since the end of above ground testing, governments have used deep tunnels for their nuclear tests. Satellite images reveal a new fifth tunnel carved out at China's locked Nord testing site along with a growing pile of excavated debris. Washington accuses China of dramatically expanding its nuclear arsenal.
 
MICHAEL CHASE, U.S. DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR CHINA: We project out to 2035 when we expect that they'll want to have about 1500 nuclear weapons.
 
WATSON (voice-over): In the statement to CNN, China's Foreign Ministry also denied plans to test saying, "This kind of report only speaks on hearsay evidence, and hypes up China's nuclear threat for no reason." The specter of a new nuclear test which shattered restraint exhibited by the U.S. China and Russia ever since the 1990s.
 
LEWIS: If you are a farmer in Ohio or a shopkeeper in Shanghai, the threat of nuclear testing isn't the test themselves. It's the fact that you are essentially agreeing to pay vast sums of money in an arms race that no one can win but we can always. Ivan Watson CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Thanks for joining me here on CNN NEWSROOM, I'm Max Foster in London. WORLD SPORT with Amanda Davies is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)