Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Hawaii Wildfire Death Toll Now at 93; Georgia prepares for Trump's Fourth Indictment; Russian Warship Fires Warning Shots at a Vessel Near Black Sea; U.S. Authorities Raided Kansas' Local Newspaper; Slain Ecuadorian Presidential Candidate's Running-Mate Speaks to CNN; FIFA Women's World Cup Reaches Final Four. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired August 14, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. You are watching "CNN Newsroom" and I'm Rosemary Church. 
 
Just ahead, Maui residents returned to find their homes decimated by a wildfire that traveled at extraordinary speed. We will hear one resident's story ahead. 
 
Donald Trump could soon be facing a fourth criminal indictment. This time the case is unfolding right here in Georgia where we're key evidence prosecutors have gathered. 
 
And a Russian warship fires warning shots at a cargo vessel in the Black Sea. We'll have a live report on what Ukraine is now calling an act of piracy. 
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): Live from CNN Center, this is "CNN Newsroom" with Rosemary Church. 
 
CHURCH: We begin with the deadly fires that swept through the Hawaiian island of Maui and new details about the astonishing speed of the flames which have now killed at least 93 people. Hawaii's governor says the wildfire that ripped through Lahaina last week moved as fast as one mile a minute. He detailed the latest damage estimates but tried to stay positive as he discussed the state's response. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSH GREEN, HAWAII GOVERNOR: Over 2,700 structures were destroyed in Lahaina, and an estimated value of $5.6 billion has gone away. But mostly there are people are suffering, and we continue to work to find them. There's a lot of information that people want. And to that end, I've authorized a comprehensive review of what happened in the early hours of the fire and the hours thereafter. We will build back together. We will find out what we could have done to prevent such loss of life to the best of our ability. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Cell phone service is coming back but authorities say they still don't know how many people are missing. Only 3 percent of the fire zone has been searched with cadaver dogs. Officials are urging those looking for loved ones to contact authorities and coordinate DNA testing for identification. 
 
The vast majority of structures destroyed in Lahaina were people's homes. Now some residents are slowly starting to sift through the debris. CNN's Mike Valerio is in Maui with this report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Right now, we're at Waihe'e which is the only way to get into the disaster zone for residents to access the areas near Lahaina so we're going to show you what is going on these officers from Maui police are checking to make sure that anybody who goes in here is in fact a resident not a tourist and not somebody who would engage in looting from out of town somewhere from a different part of the island. 
 
Some people who we have met they have told us that this is a profoundly emotional juncture for them as they move from this lush landscape to try to move and see it through this area and see what has survived. We met a woman, Susan, who told us exactly that. Listen to what she said. 
 
SUSAN SLOBDNJAK, 31-YEAR MAUI RESIDENT: Well, I drove through Lahaina for the first time on Friday. Okay I again live up north, you know, seven miles out of Lahaina and that night of the fires. We were watching the sunset on one side, and it seemed like the sunset on the other side from the flame. And we did not know how serious it was. 
 
And when I drove through on Friday, I had no clue what I was going through. Everything's gone. I worked at the Chart House in 1991. It is flat to the ground. There's houses that I used to live in Lahaina that I don't even know where they were. And you know, I lost friends in there, you know, they were going back to get their animals, you know, and she died. So I mean, you know, it's really sad because people come over here, you know, I heard there was a snorkeling boat looking at Lahaina Town. 
 
Give them respect, you know, it's so bad. This is, you know, people died here. I mean, it's not just a vacation. It's not just a place for vacation. We live here. 
 
VALERIO: Just utterly heartbreaking to hear vignettes and sentiments like that as we look out at the ocean to give you some more perspective. Just the juxtaposition as you see that as your beautiful ocean, this beautiful corner of the world, and then just a couple miles down the road, you'll see the moonscape seared, scarred. We also want to note, you know, about this road, it narrows into one lane of traffic. for people to get into the disaster zone to figure out what has survived and how they move forward. 
 
Mike Valerio, CNN Maui, Hawaii. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[03:05:09]
 
CHURCH: Ryan Valliere is a resident of Maui who lived in Lahaina but was on the other side of the island when that fire erupted. He's been unable to return to his home and he joins us now live via Skype from Makawao. Thank you so much for talking with us at this very difficult time. 
 
Now I did want to ask you if you've received any information about your home from authorities or anyone else and do you know when authorities might let you and other residents return? 
 
RYAN VALLIERE, LAHAINA RESIDENT: I was able to go back near the site yesterday. However, the National Guard and the local authorities have Lahaina closed down. My house is the last house on Front Street, which is on the very front of Lahaina there. And so we were the last house to burn down in that section that burned on Tuesday. 
 
CHURCH: I'm so sorry for your loss. So what was your experience as these fires Lahaina, I know you weren't there, but what did you see? What did you hear? 
 
VALLIERE: Well, when I left earlier in the day, I've never seen winds like that. And it was, the wind was so strong, the energy was so intense. And I was on the other side for work and a friend said, is your house still okay? And I began making phone calls to my roommates and friends on the west side, as we call it, which is Lahaina. And couldn't get ahold of anyone because cell phone towers were down and then started getting in touch with friends as they were getting into cell reception as they were fleeing the fire. 
 
I work for a couple different nonprofits and one of them we were staying at -- we were able to get a shelter and get some of our friends and families into there that evening to be able to get out of safety. 
 
CHURCH: And what -- what is your biggest need at this time after perhaps losing most of what you own and what do other residents of Lahaina need at this time? 
 
VALLIERE: You know, I think really crisis counseling and prayer and love and support, there's a lot of people who are very shaken up. 
 
Obviously, many of our friends and families have lost lives and homes, pets. It's been -- It looks like an apocalyptic scene in there driving through it yesterday and seeing the photos and videos of my house. It looks like a scene out of a war movie. It's pretty intense. 
 
CHURCH: And housing appears to be the biggest need at this point. Of course that's going to be very difficult. I understand around 1500 homes are going to need to be built. That is going to take some time, isn't it? VALLIERE: Yeah, the infrastructure has been, you know, destroyed
 
 really, the whole town is gone. Like when you drive past it, it's like my entire town has been basically destroyed. 
 
There are a few things around the perimeter that are still established. There's a few gas stations that survived, a few grocery stores, a few hardware stores. So I do believe that with the people that we have and the efforts that are coming in, we will be able to rebuild and restore what has been lost and stolen and destroyed in the fire, but it is going to take a long time and it is going to take the right people bringing in the right aid and the right support for the community emotionally, spiritually, financially, relationally. 
 
CHURCH: Yeah, and let's hope that you receive all of that help for as long as needed. Lahaina resident Ryan Valliere, thank you so much for talking with us and we're very sorry for the loss of your home. 
 
VALLIERE: Yes, we do have some groups and some efforts that are going in to provide a lot of aid. And I work with a couple different organizations that we're able to get supplies and resources right on the ground to the family and friends that we know. So people have been giving and giving to our organization, greatforestministry.com, and we're able to get funds directly to people who are hurting right now. 
 
CHURCH: Ryan Valliere, thank you so much for talking with us. I Appreciate it. 
 
VALLIERE: Thank you so much. 
 
CHURCH: And another story we are following here in the state of Georgia. The Fulton County District Attorney is expected to seek more than a dozen indictments this week in a case that could potentially mean a fourth indictment for Donald Trump. 
 <br>[03:09:59]
 
In a CNN exclusive, sources say Georgia prosecutors have new evidence linking Trump's legal team to a 2021 voting system breach in Coffee County, Georgia. Investigators believe his associates attempted to access voting systems after the 2020 election to support his baseless claims of election fraud. 
 
This as we await testimony before a grand jury this week from Georgia officials who served during the 2020 election as well as an independent journalist. And CNN's Zachary Cohen previews the week ahead. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: As we're preparing for Fulton County District Attorney Fonny Willis to start presenting her case to the grand jury, new pieces of evidence we're learning about that prosecutors in this case have gotten their hands on, text messages that show a direct link between lawyers working for then- President Donald Trump and a voting system breach in rural Coffee County, Georgia on January 7th, 2021. Now, specifically, these text messages show that lawyers working for Trump actively sought to get a written letter of invitation from a local election worker in Coffee County in the days leading up to the breach. 
 
This shows that they were involved in the planning. Lawyers like Rudy Giuliani and former Trump attorney Sidney Powell, both were very knowledgeable and helped coordinate the breach in the days leading up to it. Now, it's remains to be seen how this will factor into any charging decisions brought by Fonny Willis as soon as possibly Tuesday, but we do know this is a key part of her investigation and expect it could factor in to potential criminal charges going forward. 
 
Zach Cohen, CNN, Atlanta. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Joining me now from Atlanta, Tia Mitchell is the Washington correspondent for the "Atlanta Journal-Constitution." Appreciate you being with us. 
 
TIA MITCHELL, WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT, THE ATLANTA JOURNAL- CONSTITUTION: Thanks for having me. 
 
CHURCH: So as the city of Atlanta tightens security ahead of a possible fourth indictment for Donald Trump, we are seeing a new development in the Georgia election interference probe with prosecutors claiming to have text messages and emails linking Trump's legal team to voting system breaches.
 
And this comes as Fulton District Attorney Fannie Willis prepares to present the case to a grand jury where she is expected to seek an indictment of more than a dozen people as early as Tuesday this week. So what is the significance of this new development and could it perhaps be a game changer? 
 
MITCHELL: Well, so the significance is it gives us further proof that the tampering of election machines in Coffee County Georgia is one of, we think several threats that district attorney Fonny Willis is looking at as she considers who to bring charges against and what charges to bring. 
 
And so when it comes to the Coffee County election machines, my colleagues at the AJC have been reporting for months, really not since almost immediately after January 6, 2021 about the tampering of election machines in Coffee County.
 
But what these text messages allegedly show us is further proof that former President Trump and members of his inner circle were more directly involved in getting access to those machines, working with local Republican leaders in Coffee County, and helping to disseminate the private election data that they obtained from those machines. 
 
And so those text messages could help. Fonny Willis built this case. Again, the Coffee County election machines are just one of many threads that we think she's building a case in deciding who to charge. 
 
CHURCH: The DA is looking at three different areas of possible illegality, right? The fake electoral certificates, the alleged voting systems breach in rural Coffee County and the third, Trump's phone call. Now could that be the strongest evidence given it was a recorded telephone call from Trump pressuring Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger to find 11,780 votes so Trump could win the state? 
 
MITCHELL: Well, it's just so interesting because, yes, that phone call ended up resonating because it was recorded. So there was this evidence that -- I guess the evidence kind of, you know, people could hear for themselves what President Trump was saying at the time.
 
But there were other phone calls to Georgia's officials that weren't recorded, but the people who were on the receiving end of those phone calls have talked to the special grand jury. And now we're hearing that some of the people on the receiving end of those phone calls may be talking to the grand jury that is impaneled that will consider charges. 
 <br>[03:15:05]
 
And there's even a fourth thread, which is the misinformation about the Fulton County as a result of being singled out again by former President Trump and his allies. 
 
CHURCH: Multiple witnesses have been called to appear before the ground jury on Tuesday as you mentioned. One of them set to testify is former Georgia Lieutenant Governor Jeff Duncan. What's expected to come out of his testimony? 
 
MITCHELL; So it's very interesting because Jeff Duncan is someone who up until the 2020 election considered himself an ally of President Trump, a supporter of President Trump, but he drew the line at efforts to overturn the election in Georgia. He's the Lieutenant Governor in Georgia, but with that comes real power because he also is President of the State Senate. 
 
And so what happened was, Jeff Duncan parted not just with President Trump, but other conservative members of the General Assembly that were pushing the stop-the-steal effort. He can talk about those discussions among Republican elected officials in the General Assembly, those decisions, he can talk about the pushback and why he and other Republicans or Democrats felt that it was improper, for example, to give Rudy Giuliani the platform that he was afforded by some members of the General Assembly to spread election misinformation and disinformation. 
 
So his testimony could be key because not only was he on the inner circle, but he was on the inner circle with conservatives. 
 
CHURCH: Tia Mitchell, thank you so much for joining us. I Appreciate it. 
 
Coming up next, fires break out in Ukraine's south as defense forces repel a new round of Russian attacks. The details just ahead. 
 
Plus, U.S. Republican presidential hopefuls are taking their campaign pitches to Iowa's state fair where there's corn dogs, games and a lot of mudslinging too. We'll take a look. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: We're following developments out of Ukraine where at least three people have been injured in Russian missile and drone attacks on the southern region of Odessa. One official says multiple fires were sparked by falling missile debris. 
 
This comes one day after deadly attacks in the Kherson region. Officials say an entire family died in Russian shelling, including a 23-day-old baby girl. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says at least 17 shelling attacks were reported in Kherson on Sunday. 
 
Ukraine is calling Russia's boarding of a cargo vessel in the Black Sea a deliberate attack and act of piracy. And it wants the international community to recognize it as a crime. Those comments coming after Russia's defense ministry said one of its warships fired warning shots and servicemen boarded a cargo ship sailing under the flag of Palau that it claims was headed to Ukraine. 
 
CNN's Clare Sebastian joins us now live from London. Good morning to you Clare. So what more are you learning about these warning shots fired by the Russian ship in the Black Sea and what came next? 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah Rosemary I think you look it's fair to interpret these warning shots as directed not only by at this individual ship. Russia had already said after pulling out of that Black Sea grain deal that it would consider any ship heading to Ukraine as potentially carrying weapons. 
 
It's making it clear did it plans to enforce this. I think, look, this is also coming after Ukraine said last week it was planning to open up temporary humanitarian corridor in the Black Sea for merchant ships, including those still trapped in Ukrainian ports. So what exactly happened?
 
Well, according to the Russian Ministry of Defense, this ship, this Palau flagged cargo vessel, we don't exactly know what the cargo was at this point or whether it was carrying any, but it apparently, according to the Russian Ministry of Defense did not respond to requests to stop for an inspection so they fired those warning shots and then a helicopter load of Russian servicemen landed on this ship apparently carried out the inspection and then let the ship go on its way. 
 
Now according to its tracking data it's now just over an hour and a half away from the Romanian port of Sulina which is in the mouth of the Danube River and the Black Sea and on the way to the Ukrainian Danube River port of Ismail which is where the Russian Ministry of Defense said the ship was heading in the first place. So it's being allowed, it seems, to carry on its way. But again, as I say, clearly this was a warning by Russia and
 
 Ukraine's foreign ministry condemning this again this morning, saying these actions exemplified Russia's deliberate policy of endangering the freedom of navigation and safety of commercial shipping in the Black Sea. Rosemary? 
 
CHURCH: All right. Our thanks to Clare Sebastian joining us live from London. 
 
A plane taking part in an air show has crashed near an apartment complex in Michigan. Here you can see puffs of smoke coming from the plane as two people on board ejected before the crash, neither were seriously injured and we are told no one on the ground was hurt. According to the Federal Aviation Administration, the plane was a vintage fighter jet and was part of the Thunder over Michigan air show. 
 
Well meanwhile, two people were killed in North Carolina when a small plane crashed into a lake early Sunday. Officials in the city of Hickory say the plane hit power lines on the way down, knocking out electricity to more than 17,000 customers. It was mostly restored by Sunday evening. Federal authorities are investigating the cause of the crash. 
 <br>[03:25:10]
 
And still to come. A top leader from Taiwan is transiting through the United States, why China is upset about the visit and what Taiwanese officials fear could happen next. 
 
Plus outrage after police raid the office of a local Kansas newspaper and its publisher's home. Why some are calling it a violation of press freedom. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: China is condemning the transit of Taiwan's Vice President William Lai through the U.S. Lai arrived in New York on Saturday, where he was welcomed at the airport by one of Washington's unofficial representatives to Taipei. He's scheduled to leave in the coming hours for Paraguay, where he will attend the inauguration of the Paraguayan president on Tuesday. 
 
And CNN's Paula Hancocks joins me now live from Seoul in South Korea. Good to see you, Paula. So why is China so angry about this particular stopover of Taiwan's vice president? 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Rosemary, Beijing has said that they do not want to see any official interactions between the United States and Taiwan. Beijing considers the Communist Party considers Taiwan to be part of its sovereignty, despite the fact it has not governed it at any point. It's also a democratic self- governing island, but that doesn't stop Beijing from saying that it may in the future use force to try and bring it under its control. So this has been an issue for years. 
 <br>[03:30:00]
 
When Taiwanese officials go through the United States to visit, for example, in this case South America. 
 
So we have seen in this particular case the U.S. officials, a senior administration official, saying it's an unofficial visit, saying that it is routine and it is in keeping with its one China policy, but that isn't the way that Beijing sees it. 
 
Now William Lai spoke to a community of Taiwanese Americans on Sunday at a banquet and he gave a speech there saying that Taiwan would not back down in the face of this pressure from Beijing. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WILLIAM LAI, TAIWANESE VICE-PRESIDENT (through translator): So, at this decisive moment, I want to promise once again, at this time and place, that no matter how great the threat of authoritarianism is to Taiwan, we absolutely will not be scared nor cower. We will uphold the values of democracy and freedom. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANCOCKS: Now Beijing has, through its foreign ministry, issued a statement about it. They have said that they strongly oppose any official interactions between the United States and Taiwan. In the statement, they said, Lai Ching-te clings stubbornly to the separatist position for Taiwan independence. He is a troublemaker through and through. 
 
It is a reaction we have heard in the past. In fact, just earlier this year, there was, in March and in April, the President, Tsai Ing-wen, who transited through the United States. She was on her way to Guatemala and Belize. She also met with high officials within the U.S. government's house speaker, Kevin McCarthy, for example. There was a furious Beijing response to that as well. Rosemary? 
 
CHURCH: All right, Paula Hancocks joining us live from Seoul. Many thanks. 
 
Republican presidential hopefuls flocked to the Iowa state fair over the weekend as they look ahead to 2024, and former U.S. President Donald Trump made a big show of confidence despite the looming threat of a possible fourth indictment this week. 
 
The fair is a major event on the campaign trail and although Trump drew large crowds he still faces competition from his chief rival Florida Governor Ron DeSantis. CNN Steve Contorno has the latest. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: The campaigns of Florida Governor Ron DeSantis and former President Donald Trump clashed over the weekend at the Iowa State Fair, where both Republican candidates tried to build support in what is going to be one of the most important GOP contests on the nominating calendar. Now, for Governor DeSantis, this was an opportunity to turn the page
 
 after a difficult stretch in his campaign. He has cut staff, he has cut spending, and he has now refocused his efforts on some of these early nominating contests, trying to win back support and convince Republican voters he will be a better nominee for the party to take on Joe Biden in November 2024. 
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-CA), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We need to leave this country better off than we found it and we are in danger of being the first generation that turns over less opportunities to our kids than the opportunities we've inherited and that is unacceptable. 
 
CONTORNO: DeSantis spent most of Saturday at the fair where he was flipping pork chops and playing fair games with his family. Meanwhile Trump reminded people why he is the Republican frontrunner, he showed up for a few short hours, but still brought a huge crowd and many people were there to hear him speak. 
 
And when he spoke, he talked a lot about the legal troubles that have dogged his campaign, but continue to make him popular among Republican voters. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: The whole thing is a fake. It was put out by Biden, and they put it out because they can't win an election the fair way. It's called election interference. And Biden put it out because he can't win the fair way. He's way down on the bones. 
 
CONTORNO: Trump, while in Iowa, also took the opportunity to Santos a little bit. He brought with him several members of Florida's Republican Congressional delegation who have endorsed Trump over their home state governor. Just another example of how these two men are clashing with each other in this GOP contest so far. 
 
Steve Contorno, CNN, St. Petersburg, Florida. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Five people, including a teenager, are known to have died in a massive home explosion outside Pittsburgh. Three homes were destroyed and at least 12 others damaged. Officials say three people were taken to the hospital, one of the remains in critical condition. 
 
This video obtained by CNN appears to show the explosion with debris scattering across the area. Authorities are working to determine the cause. As a precaution, the gas service was shut off to 50 nearby homes, but the local gas provider says all systems were operating as designed at the time of the explosion. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEVE IMBARLINA, ASSISTANT CHIEF, ALLEGHENY COUNTY EMERGENCY: Now that we are at this phase, the cause and origin investigation of our Fire Marshal's Office will begin in earnest. 
 <br>[03:35:03] Please understand that this will be a slow and long process as things need to be tested and there will be lots of forensic testing to be able to prove anything one way or another and that this investigation may last for months if not years. So please keep that in mind, it's a slow process. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: At least 57 firefighters also suffered minor injuries. injuries as they responded to the incident. 
 
A Kansas police department is facing criticism after it raided the offices of a local newspaper and the home of its publisher, seizing computers and other records. Dozens of news organizations sent a letter to the police chief urging him to immediately return all the seized materials. They say the raid raises concerns about press freedom. 
 
CNN's Polo Sandoval has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: One press freedom group here in the United States says that the Friday rate that targeted the Marion County record, not far from Wichita, Kansas, not only violates federal law, but also the First Amendment. 
 
Now, in terms of what we've heard from Eric Meyer, he's the co-owner of the publication. He tells CNN that the Marion County Police Department raided both his home and his publication's office last week. He adds that police seized things like computers, cell phones, and other materials. Meyer suggesting that this was all partly triggered by a story that was published mentioning Kari Newell, the owner of a local coffee shop. 
 
Meyer explaining that he and his colleagues received a confidential tip about Newell allegedly driving without a driver's license rather than publish a story based on that tip. Meyer says that he consulted with an attorney and then notified local law enforcement that the newspaper, his newspaper, had come into the contact or at least into the possession of some possible sensitive materials. 
 
Meyer says that police then notified Newell What followed was the issuing of a search warrant alleging violations of identity theft and authorizing the seizure of any documents pertaining to Newell. Newell, for her part, telling CNN that she was, quote, "flabbergasted when she learned about the raid and denied knowing that it was even in the works." 
 
Meyer claiming that law enforcement did not provide him with much information, only handed him a copy of that search warrant. During the search, Meyer's 98-year-old mother, who was home at the time, she was there, Meyer confirming for CNN that she died earlier this weekend, and he believes that it was from stress that was brought on by that search, though an exact cause of death has not yet been confirmed. The Marion County Police Chief says that he is confident that the
 
 judicial system that is currently being questioned will eventually be, quote, "vindicated." CNN has also reached out to the Marion County magistrate, who is initially the one who signed that warrant. It is certainly a complicated story, to say the least, but albeit quite an important one to follow, as is small Kansas town. is now caught in the middle of a battle over the First Amendment. 
 
Polo Sandoval, CNN, New York. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: New developments in Niger. The military leaders behind last month's coup claim they have enough evidence to prosecute the ousted president for high treason. We will have the very latest just ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: The coup leaders in Niger are suggesting they will put the country's ousted president on trial. They say they've gathered enough evidence to prosecute President Mohamed Bazoum for what they call high treason and undermining Niger's security. He's been held under house arrest since the coup late last month. 
 
Meanwhile, a source from the West African bloc, ECOWAS, told CNN a parliamentary committee is being formed to meet with Niger's coup leaders. ECOWAS has warned of military intervention in Niger, if needed, to restore civilian rule. 
 
CNN's Stephanie Busari joins us now from Lagos in neighboring Nigeria. Good to see you again Stephanie. So what more are you learning about coup leaders planning to put ousted President Bazoum on trial? 
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SR. EDITOR, AFRICA: Rosemary, it's still unclear what the junta are describing or what they mean by high treason. Now this statement, a statement was read on State TV in Niger Sunday night where the military spokesman said that they had gathered the necessary evidence to prosecute before competent national and international authorities, the ousted president and his local and foreign accomplices for high treason and for undermining the internal and external security of Niger. 
 
Now there's a lot in that statement, Rosemary, the junta spokesman did not say, give any specifics as to what President Bazoum has been accused of here exactly. And some are saying that this could be a way for them to explain why he's been ousted from government. And this happened in July 26. 
 
And this statement came just hours after a senior delegation of Muslim clerics left Niger. And they told Nigerian media that the junta was ready to have talks and speak to ECOWAS, who you remember they're in a standoff with. ECOWAS, the body of the regional bloc of heads of state in West Africa, have promised military action in Niger. So we're just really waiting to see what, when and if those talks happen, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: All right. Our thanks to Stephanie Busari joining us from Lagos. I Appreciate it. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden is trying to build more momentum heading into next year's presidential race with his economic agenda front and center this week. CNN White House reporter Priscilla Alvarez has details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: President Biden hits the road again this week to tout his domestic agenda and his legislative achievements. On Tuesday, he heads to Wisconsin where he'll talk about the Inflation Reduction Act a day before its anniversary. It's a bill that the White House has credited for lowering costs for families as well as investing in climate action. It's also a key part of Bidenomics, which the president has been leaning into as he gains momentum in his reelection bid. 
 
Now, by the end of the week, the president will be meeting with Japanese Prime Minister and the South Korean president to bring those key Asian allies closer. It's the first visit to Camp David of a foreign leader since Biden took office. And it's one that the White House announced that this visit would happen. They said it was for the three leaders to discuss, quote, "expanding trilateral cooperation across the Indo-Pacific and beyond." 
 <br>[03:45:07]
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, The White House. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: The political party of Ecuador's slain presidential candidate is nominating a new candidate to replace him. 
 
They have chosen Christian Zurita, a journalist, to run in place of Fernando Villavicencio, who was assassinated on Wednesday. On Saturday, the party had put up Villavicencio's running mate, Andrea Gonzalez-Nader, as his replacement, but they changed their minds, worried about an obscure election law that from being qualified, as she's already registered as a vice presidential candidate. Gonzalez still plans to run for that post under Zurita, who is promising to honor Villavicencio's legacy. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRISTIAN ZURITA, CONSTRUYE PARTY NOMINEE (through translator): Fernando's ideas in our government plan are totally intact and we are going to fulfill them. Together with him, we created this anti- terrorism plan, this anti-mafia plan to protect Ecuador. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Needless to say, it's been a tragic and terrifying couple of days for Fernando Villavicencio's running mate. Andrea Gonzalez-Nader sat down with CNN's Rafael Romo for an exclusive interview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDREA GONZALEZ-NADER, ECUADORIAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I think any other Ecuadorian is at the risk of getting shot right now in the street. 
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): She was supposed to be there, as his running mate, Andrea Gonzalez Nader, should have been right next to Ecuadorian presidential candidate Fernando Villavicencio when he was shot last Wednesday as he was leading a rally in Quito, the capital. 
 
GONZALEZ-NADER: Fernando was shot three times in the head. 
 
ROMO (on-camera): Has it sunk in that you could have died because you were supposed to be right next to Fernando that night when he was shot dead. 
 
GONZALEZ-NADR: Yes. Yes, I was supposed to be there next to him, getting inside the car that had no protection against bullets. And we wore no bulletproof vest because we were trying to get the people this message that we had to be brave. 
 
ROMO (voice-over): In an exclusive CNN interview at a location we're not disclosing for her safety, Gonzales said Villavicencio's murder is yet another gruesome and shocking example of how fragile democracy is, in Latin America as a region. But living in fear, she says, is not an option. 
 
GONZALEZ-NADER: I want to change this country. I want this country to be a place of peace, a productive country. We're known around the world for our incredible chocolate, our bananas, our shrimps, our coffee. I love -- I love Ecuador deeply. I believe Ecuador is a paradise, and they've turned it into hell. 
 
ROMO (voice-over): Villavicencio was a 59-year-old lawmaker in the National Assembly known for being outspoken about corruption and violence caused by drug trafficking in the country. 
 
In May, he told CNN en Espanol that Ecuador had become a narco state. His political platform was centered on leading a fight against what he called the political mafia. 
 
GONZALEZ-NADER: We knew there was a high risk of him getting attacked by the same mafia, the same organized crime and the same politicians that are linked with this organized international crime. 
 
ROMO (on-camera): After the assassination, current Ecuadorian President Guillermo Lazo declared a state of emergency for 60 days. On Saturday, 4,000 members of the Ecuadorian police and military raided a notorious prison in Guayas province and transferred an alleged leader of a local drug gang to another facility. 
 
(voice-over): Gonzales says organized crime is a regional problem that requires a regional solution. (on-camera: How does Ecuador solve its security problem? Is it
 
 something that Ecuador can do by itself, or does it need help from the international community? 
 
GONZALEZ-NADER: We need teamwork from international intelligence to find out how to stop this. Cocaine is done in Colombia and gets through Ecuador, through our coasts where it goes back to Mexico and then it's delivered to the United States and Europe. 
 
ROMO (voice-over): Ecuadorians go to the polls on August 20th for the first round of an election to choose a new president. But even something as simple as voting is an act of courage in this country, and many may decide to stay home. 
 
Rafael Romo, CNN, Quito, Ecuador. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: And then there were four. Sweden, Spain, Australia and England are all gearing up for their semi-final matchups this week in the Women's World Cup. And a chance for a spot in the final. 
 
CNN World Sport's Amanda Davies has details from Auckland, New Zealand. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
AMANDA DAVIES, CNN WORLD SPORT (voice-over): If you were in any doubts what it means to the players to have reached the semi-finals of this tournament--
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
-- just cast your eyes across some of their social media feeds. This is a case of Instagram showing the reality. 
 
(on-camera): Well, it's over in Sydney. The hype around Australia's semi-final against England has reached new heights. Here in New Zealand, singing notwithstanding, Sweden are relatively quietly yet confidently focusing on the job in hand without getting too carried away. Despite all those celebrations after victory over Japan, there's a real sense of unfinished business after reaching the semi-finals in the last three major tournaments, but not yet getting their hands on that silverware. 
 
NATALIE BJORN, SWEDEN DEFENDER: We haven't been speaking about it that much actually. We watched the quarterfinals and then of course the semi-finals. We speak about the semi-finals but we really are like not a boring team but we're like okay one game at a time. So first Spain and then we will see. 
 
DAVIES: Given the atmosphere and the mood that we saw in Sydney, what would it mean to you to make it there? 
 <br>[03:55:03]
 
BJORN: I mean everything, everything. I feel like we are not done yet and we don't want to go home. We want to win this game against Spain and we want to go to the final. So it's all about that now and I think our mentality has been great throughout the whole tournament. So we just keep on working with that. 
 
DAVIES (on-camera): Spain has traveled back from Wellington here to Auckland for their first ever Women's World Cup semi-final. It's a city and a venue that has treated them well so far in this tournament. They've scored 10 goals in the two games they've played at Eden Park but this time Sweden will very much be hoping to reign on their parade. 
 
Amanda Davies, CNN, Auckland, New Zealand. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: It was a beautiful weekend for stargazing in the Balkans. This time lapse video shows streaks of light from the Perseid meteor shower. Some people in Croatia camped out on an island in the Adriatic Sea to get a glimpse of the event. NASA says this meteor shower occurs when Earth passes through the debris trail of a comet. The particles from the comet interact with the atmosphere causing these bright streaks of light in the sky. 
 
Also in space, NASA's Webb telescope has spotted a literal cosmic question mark deep in the galaxy. The glowing object in the shape of a question mark was captured last month. Scientists are not sure about its origin, but think it's what happens when two galaxies collide. In fact, they say the merging of galaxies into a shape similar to a question mark has happened before. 
 
And thank you so much for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. Have yourselves a wonderful day. "CNN Newsroom" continues with Bianca Nobler -- Bianca Nobilo, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)