Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: Macron Visits Annecy Victims of Knife Attack; E.U. Plans to Overhaul its Asylum and Migration Laws; CNN Obtains 2021 Audio Transcript of Donald Trump Admitting He Retained a Secret Military Document; Sources Say Cuba Will Allow China to Build Spy Base on Island. Aired 12:16-1p ET

Aired June 09, 2023 - 12:16 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:16:34]
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello, everyone. I'm Zain Asher in New York, and this is "One World". We will continue to monitor the latest news from 
 
 former President Donald Trump's indictment, but first let's catch up on other headlines. 
 
Three days after the catastrophic collapse of a key dam in Russian occupied Southern Ukraine, local officials say the water levels are starting to 
 
 drop. As you can see there, civilians are still facing a major threat to their safety. Volodymyr Zelenskyy is saying Russia continues shelling 
 
 flooded areas in Kherson, including evacuation points as well. 
 
In the meantime, a Kremlin-backed official claims fierce fighting is taking place on southern front with Ukrainian troops trying to breakthrough 
 
 Russian lines. And, Vladimir Putin claims the Ukrainian counteroffensive has begun, and in his words, though, without success. CNN's Pleitgen has 
 
 more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Breaking news on Kremlin-controlled tv, claiming Moscow's forces are facing 
 
 massive attacks in southern Ukraine. 
 
OLGA SKABEEVA, RUSSIAN STATE TV ANCHOR (through translator):  Ukrainian forces attacked with NATO tanks and light-armored vehicles. Our army has 
 
 fought off these attacks.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Russia's Defense Ministry, releasing aerial videos like this one, allegedly showing their forces targeting advancing Ukrainian 
 
 formations in the Zaporizhzhia region. Moscow also claims to have taken out a modern western anti-aircraft system close to the front lines. 
 
On a visit to an arms depot, Russia's Defense Minister, urging faster weapons delivery. The enemy tried to advance today, he says, so this 
 
 equipment is needed. Let's hurry up. While the Ukrainians have not confirmed offensive operations and CNN can't independently verify the 
 
 specific Russian claim, US officials have told CNN, the Russians are putting up stiff resistance. 
 
Ukraine's leadership says they understand their counteroffensive will be long and tough, and they'll need a lots of armor to penetrate Russia's 
 
 defenses. They showed us this repair and modification shop where they fix up mostly vehicles captured from the Russians, including this modern troop 
 
 transporter. 
 
Even with all the Western equipment that Ukrainians have already received, they still have a lot less than the Russians do. That's why every tank and 
 
 armored vehicle that they can get back on the battlefield will be vital for Ukraine's war effort. That includes even seemingly destroyed vehicles like 
 
 this blown-up armored personnel carrier, the project manager tells me. 
 
UNKNOWN: We can restore, and return it to the units.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over): Further along the southern frontline, the situation in the areas, flooded by the recent destruction of a major dam is 
 
 deteriorated. Ukraine and Russia, accusing each other of targeting operations to rescue flood victims. Ukraine's Chief Rabbi, dodging for 
 
 cover as shells rained down.
 
MOSHE AZMAN, CHIEF RABBI OF UKRAINE:  To bring people here, from the river, and the Russian --
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  The Ukrainians say several people were wounded in Kherson as the authorities continue to fight to bring those stranded to 
 
 safety. Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine.
 
(END OF VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER:  Andrew Kramer is the New York Times bureau chief in Kyiv. He joins us live now from in Ukraine. Thank you so much for being with us. Just walk 
 
 us through what the Ukrainians what the Ukrainian military are up against as they continue to fight in and around the flood zone.
 <br>[12:20:16]
 
ANDREW KRAMER, NEW YORK TIMES BUREAU CHIEF IN KYIV:  Thank you for having me on. The flood waters have transformed the landscape in Southern Ukraine, 
 
 including along the river. The portion of the river that is the front line between the two armies. In areas where positions were, perhaps, a few 
 
 hundred yards apart, across the river. 
 
Now, they're separated by a vast expanse of floodwaters and upstream, the reservoir which as largest, the Great Salt Lake in Utah, it's draining and 
 
 there'll be mudflats that will potentially bring the armies closer together. So, these are the changes in the battlefield on one important 
 
 area of the front.
 
ASHER:  Obviously, all eyes right now are on the counteroffensive. Just explain to us how much harder this phase of the war is going to be compared 
 
 to previous campaigns that we saw last year. 
 
KRAMER:  The implication is that this counteroffensive will go something similar to the counteroffensive in Kherson. Early phases of it in the fall 
 
 of last year, where it was a battle fought tree line to tree line, village to village. Very brutal and bloody and the landscape is very similar in the 
 
 Zaporizhzhia region. It's table flat with few areas of cover. It's a difficult landscape for war, and as far as we know from early indications, 
 
 there aren't major breakthrough so far. Just as an indication that this may not be a very fast operation and could be quite a difficult one with 
 
 losses.
 
ASHER:  As you're speaking there, you are looking at some of the images of the devastation in and around Kherson. When you think about what Kherson 
 
 have been through -- and there they are, these are the images here. When you think about what this area has been through, you know, captured by the 
 
 Russians for about eight months, then liberated, and now of course, the destruction of this dam, then the rising waters, the flooding, looking at 
 
 the devastation. I mean, you spent time there. Just talk to us about the resiliency of the people there. Walk us through that. 
 
KRAMER:  Sure, it's a very sad scene. I spoke with one woman, for example, who had lived in the neighborhood of Kherson, that was very frequently 
 
 shelled over the past eight months. And she said while I was used to artillery shelling, but I wasn't expecting this, about the flooded -- 
 
 floodwaters. 
 
So, it's a town, a city that has been occupied. There were cases of arrest, of torture, and there was, after liberation, a long period of bombardment 
 
 from the Russians, and now portions are underwater. So, it's been a very difficult time. At the same time, the rescue operation was uplifting. 
 
We saw lots of volunteers turning up with boats to pedal out and pull people from their roofs, from the upper floors of their homes. And it was 
 
 something like what we saw earlier in the war, where you had a real outpouring of volunteer activity in a difficult time. People came together 
 
 and were helping as best they could, in this situation, where there was very extensive, major catastrophe from the flooding. 
 
And on top of that, you have the wars still going on. It was almost as if you got the Katrina flooding in New Orleans. And then, in addition to that, 
 
 you have artillery shelling into city at the same time.
 
ASHER: Yeah, and we're actually -- we're seeing some of the images you're referencing there, just in terms of the community coming together and 
 
 people really stepping up to the plate to help. So just in terms of how this destruction of this dam and how the rising waters will impact the war, 
 
 will it slow down the counteroffensive at all, do you think?
 
KRAMER:  Well, there are advantages and disadvantages to both armies from the flood. The main thrust of Ukraine's counteroffensive is at least 100 
 
 miles away, in the plains of Southeastern Ukraine. This flood is not expected to slow the counteroffensive. Ukrainians have, and perhaps have 
 
 been planning a river assault across from the river, and that would be more difficult. On the other hand, the flood washed away Russian positions on 
 
 the eastern bank. So, if you don't mind me saying so, it's a bit of a wash in terms of who benefits from this flood.
 
ASHER:  Alright, Andrew Kramer, live for us there. Thank you so much. We appreciate it. All right, there has been plenty of speculation of whether 
 
 Kyiv has actually started its counteroffensive, technically. But one thing is clear. Ukrainian forces have increased frontline fighting. CNN spoke 
 
 exclusively to British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak about what could be a pivotal new phase in Russia's war and why Western support remains so 
 
 crucial.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[12:25:06]
 
RISHI SUNAK, PRIME MINISTER OF THE UNITED KINGDOM:  I think the most important thing for us to do more, generally, is to ensure that Ukraine is 
 
 successful, because - 
 
UNKNOWN:  Do you think it has implications? 
 
SUNAK: Well, I think more generally, I think, you know, when autocrats and dictators like President Putin are disrupting the global order and 
 
 conducting illegal and unprovoked invasions of other countries, and violating their territorial integrity, I think it's that right we stand up 
 
 to that. And whoever it is, needs to see that when you behave like that, that you're going to be met with a pretty strong response. And I think 
 
 that's why, when I say, you know why is it important for the US and all of us to support what's going on in Ukraine, it's because we're defending the 
 
 rules that we spent a long time building over the past half century and we need to send a strong signal,a deterrent to aggressors everywhere, that 
 
 that kind of aggression is not going to go unchecked.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER:  Right now to a NATO exercise billed as the alliances biggest ever air deployment drill in its history. Germany is hosting the defensive show 
 
 of force. Some 250 planes and 10,000 personnel from some two dozen countries will simulate NATO's response to any potential attack on a member 
 
 country. Germany's central location makes it a major logistics hub and staging area. 
 
The exercise could disrupt some civilian flight schedules as well. CNN's Nic Robertson joins us live now with a preview of the maneuvers which are 
 
 set to begin next week. So, this has been in the works for quite some time, just in terms of the drill being planned for some time, but surely, the 
 
 Ukraine war has really underscored NATO members. The importance of being prepared. I understand that Sweden, even though technically it's not a 
 
 member, is actually taking parts as well
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Yeah, and Japan as also is present in this -- 190 fighter jets were scrambled here in less 
 
 than a week. Now, the commander of this air operation, the German commander of this air operation, gave that as an example of, you know, how quickly 
 
 this exercise can come together. How quickly NATO can project this force. How quickly it's able to assemble what it needs to do the training 
 
 exercise, to improve that interoperability between all those different nations. He gave a comparison with the speedy (ph). He said, look, let's 
 
 say you're trying to project the same sort of military effect and power with land base tanks and heavy armored fighting vehicles and that sort of 
 
 thing. He gave the example of trying to ship those, some of the from the United States. Well, he said that would take weeks, even months to do. 
 
So, this is a way of putting together an effective fighting force, an effective deterrent because he said this is here to defend right up to that 
 
 red line of NATO territory. Although he says it's not a message to President Putin, diplomats here say that Putin will be playing attention. 
 
 It is about bringing all those different skill sets, the pilots, the aircrews supports, all the other air assets that are important to make sure 
 
 that NATO is ready and prepared, as you say, for the potential of a day where they may need to fight together. 
 
For example, more than 100 aircraft that come from the US Air National Guard. Some of them lined up behind me here, come from Colorado, and it's 
 
 been one of the young first lieutenants flying one of those aircrafts. He said to me, look. I've never been on anything as big as this before, but 
 
 here I am, just a couple of days ago, flying next to a euro fighter. I can't get that experience anywhere else, and that, in essence, is what this 
 
 is about at a military level. But as you say, diplomatically, unambiguous message to President Putin. Don't interfere. Don't cross that red light 
 
 into NATO space, because we're ready. 
 
ASHER:  Putin, I'm sure we'll be watching closely. Right, Nic Robertson live for us there. Thank you so much. Coming up. We return to the 
 
 indictment on Donald Trump. I'll be speaking to former federal prosecutor about the case. You're watching CNN. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)  
 <br>[12:32:38]
 
ASHER: Hello and welcome back to One World. Let's catch up on the headlines. French President Emmanuel Macron visited the city of Annecy 
 
 today, the site of Thursday's horrific knife attack on a playground. Four toddlers and two adults were wounded. Mr. Macron visited the victims in 
 
 hospital and thanked first responders and others who helped them. 
 
The European Union plans to overhaul its asylum and migration laws. Stricter rules will be introduced across the bloc, according to a statement 
 
 from the European Council. This will include monetary charges for countries unwilling to take in the allocated number of refugees. The EU says no 
 
 member state can deal with the challenges of migration alone. 
 
And CNN has exclusively obtained an audio transcript from 2021 in which Donald Trump acknowledges that he had retained a secret military document 
 
 and admits he had no power to declassify it since he was no longer in the White House. The transcript undercuts one of Trump's main arguments against 
 
 the federal charges that were unveiled on Thursday. The document in question was a classified Pentagon document about attacking Iran. 
 
With more on the CNN exclusive and other information about the unprecedented federal indictment of Donald Trump, let's bring in CNN 
 
 Political Correspondent Sarah Murray, she is in Washington, D.C. for us. So, Sarah, what a day. What a day today. I mean, obviously, this is 
 
 historic, the fact that a former president is facing a second indictment, plus the fact that this one is a federal indictment, as well. Just take us 
 
 through what the next few days hold, including Trump's hearing and his court appearance on Tuesday in Florida. 
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, I mean, absolutely. We are in, you know, sort of uncharted water here, especially because we learned 
 
 about this indictment from Donald Trump on his social media page. We still have not heard from the Justice Department or the Special Counsel. The 
 
 indictment has not been unsealed, so we haven't actually seen it. We are going off of what Trump's attorneys were informed of in a summary that, you 
 
 know, essentially, according to them, says there are seven criminal charges.
 
We're talking about, you know, a charge under the Espionage Act, things like obstruction of justice, destruction of falsifying records, conspiracy 
 
 and false statements. Now, we expect that Donald Trump will eventually plead not guilty to these charges. That's getting a little bit ahead of 
 
 ourselves, because he's not expected to appear in federal court in Miami until Tuesday afternoon. So, of course, that's what we are looking ahead to 
 
 in terms of, you know, his ability to enter a plea, as well as just what the security situation is going to look like down noon. 
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
So, of course, that's what we are looking ahead to in terms of, you know, his ability to enter a plea
 
 as well as just what the security situation is going to look like down there around this hearing. The U.S. Secret Service and the U.S. Marshals 
 
 were not given a heads-up about this indictment, so they're kind of scrambling to get a plan in place. 
 
We're also learning from sources familiar with the matter that one of Trump's aides, Walt Nata, has also been indicted. He's someone prosecutors 
 
 have been scrutinizing for his activities, moving these boxes of classified documents around Mar-a-Lago. But again, this is another indictment. We have 
 
 not seen the meat of it. It has not been unsealed. 
 
And look, this is a saga, this document saga that has been running since May of 2021, when the National Archives realized that there were documents 
 
 missing from the Trump White House that set off this long sort of spree to try to get those back, led to the Justice Department getting involved, led 
 
 to that search at Mar-a-Lago that we saw last August, where more than a hundred documents with classified markings were recovered. 
 
We have also, of course, been reporting, my colleagues, on this audio tape that prosecutors have obtained where Trump seems to acknowledge in the tape 
 
 that he knows he retained some of these documents with classified markings. He says at one point, secret, this is secret information, look at this. And 
 
 at another point he says, as president I could have declassified, but now I can't. So, of course, we're looking to see if this tape and the transcript 
 
 is something that shows up in the indictment or could show up later as this court process plays out. 
 
ASHER: All right, Sara Murray, live for us there. Thank you so much. We'll see what happens on Tuesday. Appreciate it. 
 
It's worth remembering the many legal troubles facing Donald Trump right now, and it is quite the list, trust me. Just yesterday, he was indicted on 
 
 seven federal charges connected to his handling of classified documents, as our Sarah Murray was just laying out just there. The special prosecutor who 
 
 led that indictment is still investigating Trump's actions in the wake of the 2020 election, including the January 6 attack on the Capitol. 
 
A local prosecutor in Georgia is similarly looking into Trump's efforts to influence the vote counting in that state. She's expected to file charges 
 
 in the next couple of months. Trump has also been indicted by a New York prosecutor for the scheme to pay hush money to a porn star. That trial is 
 
 scheduled to start in March of next year. 
 
Just last month, a New York jury found Trump guilty of sexual abuse and defamation in a civil case. Author E. Jean Carroll has asked the judge to 
 
 award extra damages there because she says that Trump continues to defame her by talking about the case. And finally, there's a civil lawsuit filed 
 
 by the state of New York alleging that Trump's company inflated his net worth to get more favorable terms from banks and insurance companies. 
 
Time now for the exchange. As we mentioned, Trump is expected to appear in a Florida federal court on Tuesday. Joining us live now is someone who 
 
 knows that court very well. David Weinstein was a Federal Prosecutor in Florida for more than a decade. He's now a partner at the law firm, Jones 
 
 Walker. 
 
David, thank you so much for being with us. I mean, let's just talk about what's in these charges, what's in the indictment. Do we expect the Justice 
 
 Department to ask the court to unseal the document so that the public can find out what these charges actually are? Because if they don't, there are 
 
 obvious political implications of that. 
 
DAVID WEINSTEIN, FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR: Well, it'll be unsealed when he makes his initial appearance Tuesday afternoon. That's the way the process 
 
 worked. The indictment stays under seal until a defendant makes his or her first appearance. And so, we will all see exactly what the charges are and 
 
 the exact number of charges when the former president appears here in Miami in magistrate court for his initial appearance. 
 
ASHER: And the fact that you have Judge Eileen Cannon scheduled to preside over that initial hearing on Tuesday, I mean, just explain to us the 
 
 implications of that, because obviously that is a Trump-appointed judge who has ruled favorably towards Donald Trump in various parts of the 
 
 investigation. What are the implications of having her involved at such a high level in this? 
 
WEINSTEIN: So, you know, it certainly seems that this is a development that works favorable for the former president. And as you mentioned, she's ruled 
 
 in his favor before the 11th circuit has chastised her for some of her rulings. But for now, the case has been assigned to her, and she's in 
 
 charge of everything that happens from the time the case is arraigned and it goes forward. 
 
So, she'll be in charge of any pre-trial motions. She can refer some of those to the magistrate judge paired with her, Judge Reinhart, who is the 
 
 same judge who reviewed the search warrant. And she'll also be in charge of setting a schedule here. 
 
And so, it will be up to her to decide whether or not a continuance is granted to the defense and if so, just how much time she's going to give 
 
 the defense. The law and statutes require this case to be brought to trial within 75 days, absent the means and ends of justice requiring a longer 
 
 time period. And understandably, everyone's going to want to review the evidence and they want to take a look at it. But cases in federal court 
 
 move quickly. 
 <br>[12:40:00]
 
The means and ends of justice requiring a longer time period. Understandably, everyone's going to want to review the evidence and they 
 
 want to take a look at it. But cases in federal court move quickly. But it'll be up to her just how quickly this is going to move? 
 
Is it gonna be six months, nine months? I suspect that the former president is going to ask for the case to be continued until after November. That'll 
 
 be up to her. The government's going to object. And so, there's going to be a battle here on some little things that she's going to decide that will 
 
 have a big implication on the outcome of the case. 
 
ASHER: How will Trump's own words be used against him in all of this? I mean, the fact that he's on tape basically saying, look, I have a secret 
 
 document. Take a look at this. You know, I could have declassified it when I was president, but I can't declassify it anymore. Obviously, I'm 
 
 paraphrasing. Just how will all of that -- it's obviously that contradicts to what he said in the past. How will his own words affect this case? 
 
WEINSTEIN: Well, they're gonna have a very large effect on this case. And remember that in criminal cases, much of what's done is proving the intent 
 
 of an individual when they're charged. And for a very long time, it's been the position that he was able to declassify them, that they weren't 
 
 classified. Well, now there is a statement allegedly recorded on tape as has been reported where he says, I could have declassified them. I didn't 
 
 declassify them, and I know they're not declassified, and I'm showing them to you now. 
 
So, that cuts against any defense he might have had that he either didn't know that these documents were classified, or that knowing that they were, 
 
 he showed them to someone, or that he, in fact, did declassify them. So, while we may not find it mentioned in the indictment itself, it's certainly 
 
 going to be something that the government is going to try and introduce during the course of the trial to prove his lack of mistake, his intent, 
 
 and his motive. 
 
ASHER: And for our international audience, I mean, just explain to those watching who might not be familiar with the U.S. legal system and how it 
 
 works. I mean, obviously, there have been other presidents and vice presidents, you think about Biden and Mike Pence, who have been accused of 
 
 mishandling classified documents. Talk to us what's different this time with Former President Donald Trump, especially when it comes to obstruction 
 
 of justice and conspiracy and various other charges related specifically to this case, because it's so much more than just the mishandling of documents 
 
 themselves. 
 
WEINSTEIN: Well, I think three things come into play. One, the volume of documents that were retained, that were taken, that were in a place that 
 
 they shouldn't be. The second is how quickly the people responded who were in possession of those documents, and then what they did to look for and 
 
 then return them, and whether or not they complied with the request, returned everything, no questions asked, and did it in a fashion that 
 
 indicated they were complete and forthright and forthcoming with what's going on. 
 
And I think the difference that we've seen here at least, again, based on information in the affidavit for the search warrant and public statements 
 
 made about both former Vice President Pence and President Biden when he was vice president, the extent to which they cooperated and gave back 
 
 everything they had and didn't say, oh, this was it, that's all there was. And then it turned out, oh, no, there was more and you didn't give us 
 
 anything, which is connected to that obstruction charge. So, I think you're dealing with two distinctly different sets of facts and circumstances. 
 
ASHER: Right. Had Trump's team given back the documents right away, it could be a very different outcome here. David Weinstein, live for us there, 
 
 Former Federal Prosecutor, we appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
All right, still to come here, Cuba is about 165 kilometers away from the U.S. So, a Chinese spy station there has definitely raised some concern. 
 
 We'll tell you what sources are saying might be happening there. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: The U.S. and Saudi Arabia are trying once again to break the deadly cycle of violence in Sudan. Saudi Arabia's foreign ministry announced a 24-
 
 hour ceasefire between both warring factions on Twitter earlier to allow for the delivery of humanitarian aid. And Washington and Riyadh are warning 
 
 if the truce is violated, mediation talks in Jeddah will be postponed. The agreement follows a series of failed attempts to stop nearly nine weeks of 
 
 fighting. 
 
Two sources tell CNN that Cuba has given China permission to build a spy facility on the island. They say the outpost could allow Beijing to 
 
 eavesdrop on electronic communications in the United States. Cuba is denying it, and China accuses the U.S. of spreading rumors. 
 
A U.S. National Security Council spokesperson cast doubt on the report, calling it inaccurate. The news comes at a particularly low point in 
 
 relations between the U.S. and China. Let's get more details from Patrick Oppmann in Havana. Patrick, what more do we know? 
 
PATRICK OPPMANN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, it's rare of course that you hear U.S. and Cuban officials knocking down a report, of course, for very 
 
 different reasons. But as these sources have told the Wall Street Journal, CNN, and other media outlets, they claim that Cuba and China have struck a 
 
 deal, a secret deal, to place some kind of facility here that would allow China, because of Cuba's close proximity to the United States, to 
 
 essentially suck up all these electronic communications that people use all day long. Whether it's emails or cell phone calls, any kind of electronic 
 
 communications that they would be interested in from the United States, trying to eavesdrop, of course, on the U.S. government and industries, et 
 
 cetera. 
 
Of course, U.S., as you said, has come out and said that this report is not entirely accurate, but they won't go into details about that. Cuba 
 
 yesterday, Cuban officials came out and said that they feel that this is part of that campaign to not only discredit Cuba but to justify U.S. 
 
 sanctions on the island. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CARLOS FERNANDEZ DE COSSIO, CUBAN DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER: -- policies promoted, with a malicious intention to justify the unprecedented 
 
 reinforcement of the economic blockade, destabilization and the aggression against Cuba, and to deceive public opinion in United States and around the 
 
 world.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
OPPMANN: Of course, we should point out that for decades, Russia had, then the Soviet Union, I should say, had a base in Cuba that had this very 
 
 purpose. I've been out there, the ruins of this base, the Lourdes base, it's right outside of Havana where I am, and it's kind of a ghost city, but 
 
 it used to be -- used to be populated by literally hundreds, if not thousands, of Russian engineers who their job in Cuba for years was to 
 
 eavesdrop on the U.S. 
 
Of course, the technology has gotten better. You don't need that kind of facility anymore. Russia has sent to Cuba in the years past, say, a ship, a 
 
 Navy ship that has electronics all over it and then from that it can get a lot of, gain a lot of these kinds of signals that Russia and others, 
 
 including China, are trying to gain. 
 
So, while Cuba, the U.S. and China are all through different ways casting doubts on this report, of course sources are telling media outlets, 
 
 including CNN, that an agreement has been struck. 
 <br>[12:50:00]
 
So, we will just have to see if that goes through it, if there's any kind of confirmation, any kind of -- any kind intelligence that is gathered to 
 
 show that base or some kind of facility has been set up in Cuba. At this point, no proof of that yet.
 
All right, Patrick Oppmann, live for us there, thank you. All right, still to come, an out of this world experience. Two NASA astronauts are on a 
 
 space walk right now. You're looking at live pictures from inside the International Space Station. We'll have details on their mission when we 
 
 come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: The man being hailed as a hero for his quick response to a frightening situation on board an Asiana flight is speaking out. Last 
 
 month, the emergency exit door was opened just as the plane was preparing to land in South Korea. CNN's Paula Hancocks tells us what happened next. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It turned into the flight from hell. An Asiana passenger allegedly opened the 
 
 emergency exit door a couple of minutes before the aeroplane was about to land in South Korea. The man sitting next to him, seen here in red 
 
 trousers, tells CNN he thought he was going to die. 
 
LEE YOON JUN, ASIANA AIRLINES PASSENGER (through translator): In disaster movies, everyone always seems to die when a door opens in the air. I 
 
 wondered what I had done wrong in my life. It was just a fleeting moment, but I had so many thoughts. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Lee Yoon Jun says he didn't see the man opening the door and initially assumed it was a technical malfunction. 
 
LEE (through translator): The wind was stinging my legs and hitting my face so hard I couldn't even breathe properly. 
 
HANCOCKS: What was the man next to you doing? 
 
LEE (through translator): He didn't say anything. We were both trembling with fear. He seemed tense. When I looked down, I noticed his feet swaying 
 
 in the wind.
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Police arrested the man in his 30s at Daegu airport after the plane landed safely. He told them he felt suffocated and wanted 
 
 to get off the plane quickly, adding he'd been under a lot of stress after losing his job, according to police. 
 
LEE (through translator): From the moment he boarded the plane, he looked pale and gave off a bad vibe. He appeared somewhat dark, constantly 
 
 fidgety, looking around at people and acting strangely. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Asiana says it has stopped selling certain emergency exit seats for safety reasons. An investigation is underway to find out how 
 
 the door was able to be opened 700 feet from the ground. As soon as the wheels touched down, Lee said the passenger appeared to try and jump from 
 
 the fast-moving plane. 
 
LEE (through translator): I heard the sound of someone next to me undoing his seatbelt. I realized he was leaning towards the exit. The flight 
 
 attendant then shouted, asking for help. So, I just grabbed him. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Lee was helped by other passengers and flight attendants. 
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
I realized he was leaning towards the exit. The flight attendant then shouted, asking for help. So, I just grabbed him. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Lee was helped by other passengers and flight attendants and is amused that he's being hailed as a hero. 
 
LEE (through translator): I'm actually enjoying it. I suddenly became a temporary celebrity. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Lee feels he's been given a second chance at life, and he is determined to enjoy it. Paula Hancocks, CNN Seoul. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Utterly terrifying. And finally, we take you to space, the final frontier. NASA astronauts Stephen Bowen and Woody Hoburg have begun the 
 
 first of two spacewalks, their mission to install a solar array on the International Space Station to boost power production. The Expedition 69 
 
 crew members exited the space station's Quest airlock about three hours ago. The spacewalk is expected to take about six and a half hours. 
 
All right. Thank you so much for watching One World. Amanpour is up next. You are watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END