Headline: One World with Zain Asher
Sub-headline: India's Chandrayaan-3 Spacecraft Makes A Soft Landing On The Moon; Rudy Giuliani Soon To Appear At The Fulton County Courthouse; Zimbabwe Holds General Elections; First Debate Of The U.S. Primary Season Gets Underway; Wildfires Breaking Out By The Hour Across Greece; Railway Bridge Under Construction Collapses In India; Eight People Including Six Children Rescued From Dangling Cable Car in Pakistan; Spotless Giraffe Is Born And Makes Her Public Debut. Aired 12-1p ET

Aired August 23, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:51]
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Zain Asher in New York and this is One World. I want to begin with a new chapter in India's 
 
 space odyssey. India is officially on the moon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi says the nation's historic success belongs to all of humanity. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN: People are applauding. Let us all wait to hear from the Secretary Department of Space --
 
ASHER: You can feel the euphoria there at the control center. - has been following this historic achievement. She joins us live now from New Delhi. 
 
 So, India now staking a new claim as a national superpower. Walk us through it, Vedika. 
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: Oh absolutely, Zain, as a global space power, in fact. After what it's achieved today, a feat only achieved by three other 
 
 nations across the world, like you said, the former Soviet Union, China, and the United States of America. And India is number four on that very 
 
 short list, isn't it? And number one, in terms of the only country making it to the South Pole region -- the southern pole region of the lunar 
 
 surface. 
 
A huge achievement there by India that's been hailed by millions of people. The last time I checked on the ISRO which is the Indian Space Agency 
 
 website on YouTube, if you click on the link there were more than 37 million views. It is indeed a historic moment and people across not only 
 
 India but the world gathered to watch that one minute just before the landing and the moment of landing known as a soft landing on the moon which 
 
 means a controlled gentle landing on the moon. 
 
Mission Impossible was in 2019 that you referred to because that's when Chandrayaan-2 failed to reach the moon. It crash-landed and four years 
 
 later, it's euphoria inside the mission center and across India where you've seen people cheer, waving the Indian national flag. Emotions were 
 
 running high, especially the place where we were witnessing a watch party. What a moment it was. And then you had the Indian Prime Minister hailing 
 
 this huge historic moment. Here's what he had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NARENDRA MODI, INDIAN PRIME MINISTER (through translator): This moment is unprecedented. This moment is of developed India's victory. This moment is 
 
 of new India's victory cry. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD: So, what next for Chandrayaan 3? Well, you have the land and rover now on the lunar surface. For the next 14 days, the rover will be going into 
 
 the dark craters of the moon. This is the unexplored region of the lunar surface, extremely crucial because, according to scientists, there could be 
 
 water on the moon. And this is something that came about in 2008 when the original Chandrayaan reached the moon. 
 
And ever since, there have been scientific experiments carried out, and that's exactly what the rover is going to do over the next 14 days. This is 
 
 the dark side of the moon, as the scientists call it. And it could be a source of water, gas, as well as oxygen for future missions that could take 
 
 off from the lunar surface, Zain.
 
ASHER: Fascinating. And congratulations to everyone there celebrating in Delhi. All right, Vedika Sud, live for us there. Thank you so much. And you 
 
 actually just saw, in terms of the sound that Vedika just played for us, of Prime Minister Narendra Modi celebrating India's moon landing from South 
 
 Africa, where he's attending the BRICS Summit in Johannesburg. He's there, along with leaders from Brazil, Russia, China, and South Africa. 
 
Earlier, Russian President Vladimir Putin addressed the event giving his take on the war in Ukraine to his BRICS colleagues. He claims Russia 
 
 started its invasion in order to end the war that was, quote, unleashed, his take on the war in Ukraine to his BRICS colleagues. He claims Russia 
 
 started its invasion in order to end the war that was, quote, "unleashed by the West". I want you to listen to what he had to say. 
 <br>[12:05:14]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN (through translator): Some countries promote their hegemony, exceptionality and their policy of the on-going colonialism and 
 
 neocolonialism. I would like to note that the aspiration to preserve their hegemony in the world led to a dire crisis in Ukraine. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Mr. Putin also thanked his BRICS colleagues, who he says are seeking a peaceful resolution to the war. Moscow, however, continues to pound away 
 
 at Ukrainian targets. Russia attacked grain storage facilities in Ukraine's southern Odessa region earlier today. That's according to Kyiv. 
 
At the summit, Mr. Putin promised to be a reliable food supplier to Africa, which some critics questioned based on multiple attacks to Ukrainian grain 
 
 supplies. For more on this, I want to bring in Larry Madowo, joining us live now from Johannesburg. So, Putin clearly using this forum, Larry, as 
 
 an opportunity to really justify his war in Ukraine, also saying that he hopes to replace Ukraine in terms of supplying grain to Africa. What was 
 
 the reaction to that? 
 
LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: He knows that this audience is a friendly audience, that Russia has a lot of support, not just here in South Africa, 
 
 but across the continent. And so even these small moves, like donating grain to a couple of African countries, will be well received. And this is 
 
 the theme you hear him talking about, neocolonialism and colonialism, and rejection there -- hegemony of the West. This is preaching to the choir. 
 
So many of the people who are here are already sold on that message, Zain, so it's well-received. And that is why the de-dollarization as an 
 
 irreversible project. And he says these five member nations of BRICS are discussing ways to use national currencies to -- in all the areas of 
 
 economic cooperation. And even though an official currency is not a part of the agenda, it's come up again and again. 
 
President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa also talked about ways to make sure that these countries can use national currencies to do trade and 
 
 investment among themselves and trying to react against, push back against the dominance of the dollar in international trade and investment. Listen 
 
 to President Ramaphosa. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CYRIL RAMAPHOSA, SOUTH AFRICAN PRESIDENT: We are concerned that global financial and payment systems are increasingly being used as instruments of 
 
 geopolitical contestation. Global economic recovery relies on predictable global payment systems and the smooth operating of banking, supply chains, 
 
 trade, tourism, as well as financial flows. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MADOWO: The main theme here from these BRICS members is that they're a counterpoint, a counterbalance to the dominance of the West, of the U.S. 
 
 and European nations in global order. President Ramaphosa also talked about the need to reform international financial systems, the IMF and the World 
 
 Bank, so that Africa, the global South, has a larger say. 
 
The BRICS countries have also agreed and adopted a document about expanding the bloc. South Africa's foreign minister, Naledi Pandor is saying, we will 
 
 hear announcements probably tomorrow when the heads of states come out of their meetings, but that's a big point here. President Ramaphosa, Zain, 
 
 initially said that at least more than 20 countries have formally applied to join and they have interest from others. 
 
So, one of the rumors is will Saudi Arabia be one of the countries who will be joining BRICS? We don't know, but we'll hear more when the heads of 
 
 state emerge tomorrow as they declare the end of the summit and what the achievements out of the South African meeting have been. 
 
ASHER: All right, Larry Madowo, live for us there. Keep us posted. Thank you so much. While the war in Ukraine loomed over the BRICS Summit, there 
 
 are certainly new developments on the ground. Russia's state media reports that the former leader of Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine has been 
 
 dismissed from his post as the head of Russia's aerospace forces. General Sergei Surovikin is also known as the General Armageddon due to his 
 
 allegations of brutality. 
 
Meantime, Russia says it downed three Ukrainian drones flying near its capital. Monopoli crashed into a building under construction. This, as 
 
 Ukraine says, that two teachers were killed in a Russian drone strike on the Sumi region in the Northeast. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh is joining us live 
 
 now from Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine, where he got a glimpse into the life of an elite Ukrainian sniper unit. Nick, what more can you tell us? 
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, to be honest, it's extraordinary to have a moment to talk to these guys who spent 
 
 a fair bit of time in Russian-held occupied parts of Ukraine and work with weapons that were never designed for the kind of pace that they're 
 
 currently working at. 
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
These are sort of the equivalent, you might say, of U.S. special forces. And this story on the day, too, obviously, we're hearing about the 
 
 departure of General Surovikin, finally confirmed officially. We get another glimpse of the chaos behind Russia's frontlines -- frontlines that 
 
 these men are consistently coming up against. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALSH (voice-over): They're never seen and heard fire only once. Their targets just drop. Ukraine's elite sniper unit from the security services, 
 
 the SBU, are usually invisible. Like the U.S. Delta Force, chosen for fitness and intelligence. Unlike Delta, fighting for their homeland 
 
 survival for nearly 18 months. They gave CNN a rare interview as they honed their sniper scopes to broadcast the damage they say they've been doing to 
 
 Russian frontlines.
 
It's sniper terror, he says. That's when we hit every target we spot. It demoralizes them and kills their will to do anything against us. But it's 
 
 not always one-sided. Five weeks ago, they stumbled at night into a Russian recon group. 
 
We were in the gray zone between our lines, their commander says, using a guide from another unit. But we ran into a Russian assault group doing 
 
 pretty much the same thing as us, moving towards our front position. We opened fire. Our guide was wounded. We suppressed them, pulled him out, 
 
 called in artillery, and then watched them fall back with their wounded. 
 
They do not always escape. Sasha knows that too well. I've lost many people, he says. The best ones leave us first. His upper lip folds in 
 
 slightly from an injury when a large shell hit his chest, legs, and face last March. It was unpleasant, he says. But I had 16 operations to rebuild 
 
 my bones and teeth, and I got back into the fight. Western help has kept them afloat, they say. This anti-armor Barrett sniper rifle, a donation 
 
 used so often that its suppressor has come loose and detaches.
 
These machines and men, working at a tempo they were probably not designed for. They know why they are here though. My son is growing up, Sasha says. 
 
 He's little but he already trains, already knows who the enemy is, and that is Russia, hoping each single shot brings Russian defeat closer. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WALSH (on-camera): The strike in Sumi killing two teachers days potentially ahead of the new school year. Another reminder, I think, of what fuels 
 
 units like that. Very much putting themselves at the tip of the spear but fueled by, in cute anger we hear in the Ukrainian civilian population of 
 
 the toll taken on entirely indiscriminately chosen civilian targets by Russia. Zain.
 
ASHER: Nick Paton Walsh for us there. Thank you so much. All right, still to come, he was the public face of the effort to overturn the 2020 
 
 election. Now, Rudy Giuliani is on his way to turn himself into the Fulton County jail in Atlanta. And we are just hours away from the first debate of 
 
 the Republican presidential campaign. But if Donald Trump doesn't attend, does the debate even matter? Details, ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:16:28]
 
ASHER: Donald Trump's former personal lawyer has arrived in Atlanta to negotiate his bond and surrender at the Fulton County Jail. Rudy Giuliani 
 
 is the former mayor of New York and a former prosecutor, as well. And he's the second highest profile defendant in the racketeering case in the state 
 
 of Georgia after Donald Trump. Trump plans to do the same thing. He's going to be turning himself in tomorrow on Thursday. 
 
CNN's Nick Valencia is outside the Fulton County courthouse right now where we are waiting for Rudy Giuliani to appear. He landed in Atlanta a short 
 
 time ago. So, Nick, just walk us through how the day is going to unfold as Mr. Giuliani prepares to turn himself in. 
 
NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, it's been a revolving door of developments here outside the Fulton County jail, where defendants have 
 
 turned themselves in -- defendants that are part of this subversion case here. Fani Willis is sprawling investigation that took really more than two 
 
 years to get to this point. But now we're seeing those defendants turn themselves in. 
 
And another major development that we're expecting today is the former attorney of the former president, Donald Trump. Rudy Giuliani is expected 
 
 to show up here at the jail. He's doing things a little different from other defendants in that after arriving here, he's going to negotiate his 
 
 bond terms with the Fulton County District Attorney and then turn himself in, where other defendants have spread that process out over the course of 
 
 two days. He's going to take care of it in one foul swoop. 
 
Prosecutors alleged that Giuliani met with Georgia lawmakers three times after Trump lost the 2020 election. And in those three meetings he had with 
 
 Georgia lawmakers, he went on to spread election conspiracy theories, election lies, and continued to reiterate that in the months that followed. 
 
 Giuliani spoke to reporters as he was leaving his New York apartment earlier this morning. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER TRUMP ATTORNEY: They're destroying my right to counsel, my right to be a lawyer. They're destroying his right to counsel. 
 
 It's not accidental that they've indicted all his lawyers. Never heard of that before in America. Now, they've indicted people in this case. I don't 
 
 even know who they are. These are just regular people making a normal living. They're going to bankrupt them. They won't convict them. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VALENCIA: You know, it goes without saying, really, that this has been an incredible fall from grace for a man known formally as being America's 
 
 mayor. He took down the mob using the RICO statute and now he's charged himself with a RICO indictment, finding himself on the other side of the 
 
 justice system. Zain.
 
ASHER: I mean, it is fascinating because, you know, internationally, Rudy Giuliani is famous because he was mayor during 9-11 and he played a pivotal 
 
 role in the response -- in the city's response -- in the wake of the 9-11 attacks. Just explain to us how significant this wall from grace actually 
 
 is. 
 
VALENCIA: Yeah, you know, he was a celebrity in the days that followed after 9-11, seen really as an instrumental figure and uniting the country 
 
 in those days that followed after that terrible tragic terrorist attack here in the United States. It was Giuliani that was front and center, 
 
 really, as a sort of comforter along then President George H. W. Bush -- George W. Bush, rather. But here we are today on a day that will live in 
 
 infamy for Rudy Giuliani. He has been defiant, continuing to parrot this investigation being political in nature, parroting the narrative from the 
 
 former president. 
 
Giuliani is expected, as I mentioned, to show up here and we're told there is a chance that he could address reporters. We expect to ask him if he 
 
 still believes that the election was stolen, if he has any regrets of attaching his name to the former president. But so far publicly in his 
 
 comments, there's been no indication that he's shown any regret of standing by the president's former president's side. Zain. 
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
ASHER: Yeah, and that is interesting. You know, the fact that he has been so tied to this idea that the election was so, I mean, broadly speaking, 
 
 what has been the reaction to that? The fact that Rudy Giuliani continues to push this idea despite his fall from grace, despite the fact that he's 
 
 having to turn himself in at the Fulton County Courthouse there. What has been the broader reaction to the fact that he's still attached to the lie 
 
 that the election was stolen? 
 
VALENCIA: Well, it's been incredibly frustrating, and we should underscore, it's been incredibly frustrating for some Republicans here in the state, 
 
 with Governor Brian Kemp having testified in the special grand jury process about the Trump operatives, including Giuliani, their scheme to try to 
 
 overturn the election here. Republicans like the former, or rather the Secretary of State, Brad Raffensperger, who has called it an embarrassment, 
 
 what would happen here, and Giuliani was front and center in leading that charge. 
 
Giuliani really paying the price here and being held accountable for his actions. Fani Willis charging him in this indictment among 19 others here 
 
 that have been held accountable for their actions according to prosecutors here. Zain. 
 
ASHER: All right, Nick Valencia, live for us there. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. All right, still to come, hope for change amid an economic 
 
 freefall. Voters in Zimbabwe cast their ballots in a pivotal election. We'll explain what's at stake, just ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[12:25:01] 
 
ASHER: Hello and welcome back to One World. Let's catch up on the headlines. Hong Kong will ban food products, including seafood and seaweed 
 
 imported from some areas of Japan beginning on Thursday. It comes after Japan announced plans to begin releasing radioactive water from the 
 
 Fukushima nuclear power plant. 
 
Hong Kong is Japan's second largest market after mainland China for agricultural and fish exports. Srettha Thavisen is officially Thailand's 
 
 new prime minister after receiving a royal endorsement earlier on Wednesday. Lawmakers elected Thavisen of the populist Pue Tai Party to be 
 
 the country's 30th prime minister on Tuesday, ending months of political uncertainty. The progressive move forward party won the election in May but 
 
 failed to get enough seats to form a government outright. 
 
And ahead of Spain's High Council of Sports says that he will take action against the head of the country's football federation if the football 
 
 federation does not. Luis Rubiales gave Spain's star player Jennifer Hermoso an unwanted kiss on the lips during the medal presentation after 
 
 Spain beat England to win the Women's World Cup. 
 
All right, turning now to Zimbabwe, where voters are casting their ballots in a high-stakes election. President Emerson Mnangagwa is hoping to secure 
 
 a second term. His main challenger is opposition candidate Nelson Chamisa, the man he narrowly beat in 2018. The turnout has been high. But there have 
 
 been delays at the polls due to what the Electoral Commission called logistical issues caused by legal challenges. For many voters, their main 
 
 concern is the economy and their way of life. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNKNOWN: Stable currency, jobs and a life would be great. Mr Mugabe was great at first, but at the end things were getting worse for us. When Mr 
 
 Menangagwa got in, it got better. At least it's better. 
 
ANNA BANDA, VOTER (through translator): I want a good life. The current government is good for us. We live a good life. I am a freedom fighter, so 
 
 I want what others died for. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ASHER: Vistra results are expected within the next five days or so. Let's go straight now to CNN's Dave McKenzie. He joins us live now from 
 
 Johannesburg. So, voting has been off to a slow start. There have been quite a few delays. David, what are you hearing from Harare? 
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, you can see that there's a very high turnout from people on the ground speaking to us 
 
 at this election. People are taking this extremely seriously, and many people are wanting change in Zimbabwe. You heard from those two people. 
 
 There is a sense from previous polling that at least a majority, if not a large amount of people, are looking to have their voices heard, and many of 
 
 them want to see some change. 
 
This is an election that pits an 80-year-old in Missouna Mnangogwa against a Nelson Chamisa from a different generation, 45 years old. They have been 
 
 protracted complaints by the opposition, a citizens coalition for change, about possible rigging, about shenanigans, in particular relating to the 
 
 voters' role. They say they only didn't, they didn't get an updated voters' role even on the eve of the election. 
 
Now, the Zani Pierre Ruling Party which has been in power since 1980 in Zimbabwe has said that it is just complaints and there's no evidence of any 
 
 of these issues. Zimbabweans, for their own part, have been dealing with rampant inflation, a struggling economy. That's the ruling party blames 
 
 that on sanctions and outside influence. But there is a real sense that life is a struggle and it didn't improve post the coup in 2017 that ousted 
 
 longtime President Robert Mugabe, Zain. 
 
ASHER: And just talk to us a bit more about press freedom in Zimbabwe. I mean, it's challenging, actually, in the best of times. You've been banned 
 
 from Harare in terms of covering these elections. Just what is the atmosphere like for journalists who are trying to cover this on the ground? 
 
MCKENZIE: Well, it never should be about us, but I do think it's important to illustrate something here, that myself has not got accreditation to 
 
 Zimbabwe. I haven't actually been able to get accreditation for some years now. And just going around the BRICS Summit in Johannesburg. Today, I saw a 
 
 whole lot of people from the region who are considered Zimbabwean experts who didn't get their accreditation, either. 
 
Now, the U.S. State Department has weighed in on this, saying that it's unacceptable, that the government has used, in their mind, this way of 
 
 delaying accreditation or not giving accreditation as a way to stop the international press in particular from being in Zimbabwe and focusing their 
 
 lenses on what is going on. 
 
And now, it must be said for transparency, some members of CNN did get their accreditation but for some reason I did not. But there's a wider 
 
 issue here on what is going on. 
 <br>[12:30:00] 
 
And now, it must be said for transparency, some members of CNN did get their accreditation but for some reason, I did not. But there's a wider 
 
 issue here, and that is that many Zimbabweans feel that they are frustrated about a lack of transparency in the country, that they cannot have their 
 
 voices heard, and those who have their voices heard, particularly those from activist communities, have been rounded up, in some cases beaten, in 
 
 other cases go through long court processes that see them deprived of their livelihood and sometimes deprived of their freedom. 
 
Again, Zani Pierre and its leadership say that this criticism is unfounded, but much of the proof is in the experience of ordinary Zimbabweans, in 
 
 particular members of the Zimbabwean press in Zimbabwe and others who have had their voices basically snuffed out. We'll see if this election proves 
 
 any different. And of course, the result is not predetermined, but many in the opposition I've been speaking to in the last few days fear that the 
 
 result is predetermined, but we'll need proof of course of any allegations of rigging should those arise. 
 
One more note to speak about is that if no candidate gets 50 percent majority, this will go to a runoff in October. The last election was 
 
 relatively peaceful, but immediately after the voting, there was violence on the streets where soldiers shot several civilians. Many of us who care 
 
 about Zimbabwe, of course, are hoping that there is no repeat of those instances again. Zain.
 
ASHER: Yeah, let's hope for a peaceful next week or so. David McKenzie, live for us there, thank you so much. Zimbabwe does have a history of 
 
 violent and somewhat questionable elections. And Emerson Mnangagwa's ruling Zani Pierre Party has had a hold on power, as David was just saying, since 
 
 1980, so basically more than four decades. 
 
In 2018, less than one year after authoritarian leader Robert Mugabe was deposed by the military, current eight-year-old incumbent known as the 
 
 crocodile, eked out the narrowest of victories in a disputed ballot. During that time, there was a prevailing sense for optimism that new leadership 
 
 might lead to desperately needed democratic and economic reforms. But today, the atmosphere could not be more different. Zimbabwe has one of the 
 
 world's highest inflation rates, and more than 40 percent of the population lives in poverty. 
 
The outcome of these elections are monumental. Zimbabwe's chances of resolving its debt crisis and accessing international loans are at stake, 
 
 with foreign lenders requiring a free and fair poll as a precondition. 
 
Time now for The Exchange and my conversation with Hopewell Chin'ono. He's a human rights activist, an award-winning journalist, and a documentary 
 
 filmmaker, as well. He joins us live now from Zimbabwe's capital, Harare. Hopewell, thank you so much for being with us. You've described these 
 
 elections as one of the worst elections in post-colonial Zimbabwe in terms of what you witnessed, so far. Walk us through what you meant by that. 
 
HOPEWELL CHIN'ONO, JOURNALIST AND FILMMAKER: You see, the problem is that this is not an election at all. I will start with the morning. The election 
 
 is supposed to start at 7 A.M. in the morning. Right now, as I'm speaking to you, there are many polling stations in opposition strongholds that have 
 
 not opened the polling stations. They do not have voting material. Certain areas in our area have been told that their election material, that is, the 
 
 ballot papers, are being currently processed and printed. So, how can you have an election where the ballot papers are printed on election day? 
 
And then the second aspect of it is that ZANU-PF, through certain elements of the secret service, has been setting up desks outside polling stations, 
 
 asking citizens to provide their IDs and their names where they are written in a book. The idea is to intimidate, especially the rural folk, that if 
 
 you do not vote for ZANU-PF, we would have known which citizens voted in this particular polling station and then will come after you. And we will 
 
 also deny you food relief, which is given out from donor agencies throughout the next five years. 
 
So, that is what I meant when I said that this is one of the worst elections. I mean, Robert Mugabe was terrible, but he never lowered the bar 
 
 to what we have seen today. They have sunk from the gutter into the sewer. 
 
ASHER: Gosh, I mean, the idea of -- and the allegations of voter intimidation by ZANU-PF officials, asking people for their names outside 
 
 polling stations and setting up desks outside polling stations, I mean, that is incredibly alarming. Just given that and also the fact that, you 
 
 know, clearly the polling stations have been disorganized, there are delays happening right now. What does all of that do to the atmosphere of trust? I 
 
 mean, Zimbabwe has had a poor record when it comes to free, disorganized.
 <br>[12:35:00]
 
There are delays happening right now. What does all of that do to the atmosphere of trust? I mean, Zimbabwe has had a poor record when it comes 
 
 to free and fair elections. I imagine that this atmosphere, in terms of what's happening today, only exacerbates that. 
 
CHIN'ONO: We knew, I think, every -- say in Zimbabwe knew that there was going to be some kind of attempt to rig this election, but we never thought 
 
 that it was going to be so brazen. We never thought that the government would even care about the election observers and some of the international 
 
 journalists around who have been allowed to cover this election. This election is so important because it's going to determine the lives of 
 
 Zimbabweans for the next five years. 
 
Right now in Zimbabwe, the whole country does not have a single working radiotherapy cancer machine. We do not have a single working heart bypass 
 
 machine, both in the private and public sectors. Hospitals do not have medication. Two thousand five hundred Zimbabwean women are dying every year 
 
 giving birth. Seventy-five percent of women who give birth at Musina Hospital across the border in South Africa are Zimbabwean. They go there 
 
 because they're afraid of dying whilst giving birth. 
 
So, this election is so important. That is why you're seeing a lot of people turning up and being frustrated, but most of them are staying put 
 
 until that voter material is available. But the danger is that, when polling starts during the night, anything can happen. In the past, in 2013, 
 
 there's been a case where voters are bussed after they voted in rural areas, are bussed into cities to come and vote, which is part of rigging 
 
 the election. So, this is an important election, but one that has been shambolic. 
 
ASHER: I mean, you talk about really what's at stake for ordinary Zimbabweans. I mean, you mentioned healthcare. Obviously, the economy as 
 
 well as a massive factor here when it comes to just how many Zimbabweans live below the poverty line. The rate of inflation in Zimbabwe is obscene. 
 
 Also, the fact that you have so many Zimbabweans who have been crossing over, looking for work in South Africa, and that's caused tension between 
 
 the two countries. Assuming that ZANU-PF ends up with another five years here, what does life look like for ordinary Zimbabweans? 
 
CHIN'ONO: Well, at the moment, ninety-five percent of our potential job workforce is out of work. So, our unemployment rate is 95 percent. And we 
 
 have got the highest inflation in the world. Millions of our people are in South Africa. Most of them are there illegally. So, what will happen is, if 
 
 ZANU-PF emerges again, is the winner of a rigged election, you're going to see a lot of more people crossing into South Africa, both legally and 
 
 illegally. And what that means is there are going to be flash points of violence and clashes, as we have seen in the past 15 years in South Africa. 
 
South Africa has got an election in 2024. And as we saw in their midterm elections, the ruling party in that country, ANC, got less than 50 percent 
 
 for the first time. And a lot of the fringe political parties are campaigning around the issue of immigration. So, if you have more 
 
 Zimbabweans going into South Africa, it's going to create more problems for the region. 
 
So, one would have thought that South Africa and SADC, which is the regional body, would make sure that there is a free and fair election in 
 
 Zimbabwe, which whose dispute or rather whose outcome is not disputed. But that is not the case. In fact, the Secretary General of the ruling party in 
 
 South Africa went on the record and called the opposition leader in Zimbabwe, Nelson Chameleon, an American puppet. 
 
So, that doesn't instill confidence that our neighbors want to see a clean election in Zimbabwe but they will suffer the consequences -- is because 
 
 Zimbabwe is no longer a foreign policy issue in South Africa. It's a domestic issue because Zimbabweans are living there. They are using social 
 
 services in South Africa. We'll have to see what happens, obviously, over the next five days in terms of the outcome of this election. 
 
ASHER: But I get the feeling that a lot of people in Zimbabwe believe that the outcome has already been predetermined in terms of the likelihood that 
 
 Emerson Mnangagwa is going to get another five years. But we'd love to have you back on the show to talk about it, as in when we get the results. We'll 
 
 see if there is a runoff or not, or if we get results outright over the next five days. Hopewell Chin'ono, live for us. Thank you so much for being 
 
 on the show.
 
All right, still to come here, hundreds of fires burn across Greece, including one creeping dangerously close to Athens. We'll bring you a live 
 
 report from the capital that's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:42:29]
 
ASHER: The first debate of the U.S. primary season gets underway in just a few hours, but it will be happening without the front runner. Donald Trump, 
 
 comfortably ahead in the polls, is skipping the debate. Instead, he's going to be doing an interview with Tucker Carlson on "X", formerly known as 
 
 Twitter. Trump's eight closest competitors will be on the stage together in the city of Milwaukee. And if you expect the candidates on stage to attack 
 
 the former president, one of the leading contenders told CNN's Kaitlan Collins that is not his plan. 
 
VIVEK RAMASWAMY, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The reason I don't want to criticize Trump is because everybody else from, you know, networks like 
 
 the one we're on right now on down are doing plenty good job of making up attacks that shouldn't even exist. Prosecutors across this country charging 
 
 cases that should have never been brought. I think he was a good president, but I want to build on his agenda to take the America First movement to the 
 
 next level. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
But voters in Wisconsin, where the debate is taking place, are bracing for a bit of drama. Jeff Zeleny speaks to voters in the battleground state. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAROLINE QUINLAN, WISCONSIN VOTER: I think the next 15 months is going to be like a lifetime movie. There's going to be so much going to happen on 
 
 both sides. 
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: That is how Caroline    sees the 2024 presidential race. Hopeful for the possibility of change but 
 
 bracing for a year of drama. 
 
QUINLAN: I could go for a fresh start on both sides of the aisle, both for the Republicans and the Democrats. Is that going to happen? I don't know. 
 
ZELENY (voice-over): Quinlan has a ringside seat here in the sprawling suburbs of Milwaukee, where Republicans will not only gather for their 
 
 first primary debate, but also convene next summer in the same arena to crown the party's nominee at the GOP convention.
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: Hello, Milwaukee! 
 
ZELENY (voice-over): Wisconsin has long been a vital stop on the road to the White House, a battleground and bellwether that went for Joe Biden in 
 
 2020 and Donald Trump in 2016. Eight candidates will be on stage for the debate, but not Trump. Former Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, a one-time 
 
 Trump rival, believes that's a mistake. 
 
SCOTT WALKER, FORMER WISCONSIN GOVERNOR: When I stood next to him at that first debate eight years ago in Cleveland, this was a guy who was 
 
 commanding, who took charge, who took over the debate. And I think it's a missed opportunity for him not to come here to Milwaukee and try and take 
 
 charge again. 
 
ZELENY: As Walker sees it, Trump is not only competing in the primary, he also could start trying to win over some of the voters who once supported 
 
 him. 
 
WALKER: If they see him fighting not for the sake of fighting, but fighting for them, fighting for the for their families, fighting for their schools, 
 
 fighting for their economics, survivability, then I think he starts to pull some of those voters back. 
 <br>[12:45:00]
 
ZELENY: Quinlan, an Independent, would be in that camp. When we first met during the final weeks of the 2020 campaign, she was torn.
 
QUINLAN: I get it why people don't like Trump.
 
ZELENY: She ultimately voted for Trump. Now, she's intent on sizing up the field. Is there anyone who stands out to you at this point or a few people? 
 
QUINLAN: Well, I'm still learning about all of them. I've been really interested in DeSantis, Hailey. I'm interested in her. 
 
ZELENY: She wants to hear the candidates talk about education, the economy, and crime. She fears Biden is too old and for now is withholding judgment 
 
 on Trump. 
 
QUINLAN: Yeah, he's not my first choice, but, yeah, let's see what my choices are. 
 
ZELENY: Democrats are also laser focused on Wisconsin. 
 
BIDEN: Good to see you, dude. 
 
ZELENY: With the Biden campaign on the air with a new TV ad. 
 
BRIAN SCHIMMING, CHAIRMAN, WISCONSIN REPUBLICAN PARTY: What this debate is about is one of us versus Joe Biden. 
 
ZELENY: Brian Schimming, Chairman of the Wisconsin Republican Party, said the attention makes clear. His state will help settle a larger debate, 
 
 whether it's a rematch between Biden and Trump or not. I don't think anything's inevitable. History is full of folks who, you know, were ahead 
 
 early and then didn't end up the nominee in both parties. 
 
It's an open question if history will be the best guide for the 2024 campaign. But one thing is clear, talking to voters here in Wisconsin, many 
 
 do have open minds. Some are eager to turn the page beyond Trump. Some of course are loyal supporters. But one year from now, next summer, the 
 
 Republican Party will nominate their candidate right here in Milwaukee in this building right behind me here. Will it be Trump or someone on the 
 
 debate stage? That of course is up to the voters. Jeff Zeleny, CNN, Milwaukee. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: Wildfires are breaking out by the hour across Greece. More than 200 new blazes have erupted since Monday alone. One fire is burning in the 
 
 forest adjoining Athens. And there's concern that it could spread to a national park. The city's -- the capital city rather, is blanketed in ash 
 
 and smoke. The flames are exacerbated by extreme heat and dry conditions which are expected to last through Friday. 
 
Our Eleni Giokos is seeing it for herself first-hand. Just how intense these flames are. She joins us live now from the Greek capital. Eleni, I've 
 
 been watching you all morning. Some of the images behind you are utterly devastating. These blaze have left a path of just pure devastation in their 
 
 wake, and we're seeing images of homes being burned, cars being burned, reports of people having to flee their homes on foot. Eleni, take us 
 
 through it. 
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah. And we've also witnessed homes being burnt. You know, we were up on this hill earlier this morning and it felt 
 
 like the fire was relatively far away. And then we saw it just erupt enormous flames. It happened so quickly, Zain, that we were told to leave, 
 
 we ran basically, and anyone else that was with us, the locals that were living in these houses were also told to leave and they left reluctantly. 
 
 They did not want to leave their homes.
 
Some people were telling us that they built their homes themselves, that this is their livelihoods, they were dousing their houses and their gardens 
 
 with water in the hope that the fire would just pass through and miraculously, actually, some of the people that did actually stay till very 
 
 last minute. Those are the homes that basically did get through this. 
 
This is Parnitha Mountain. It's the forest, one of the most important forests in the whole of Greece actually. It's known as the lungs of Athens. 
 
 It's an important carbon basin. And some of the images that we've seen are absolutely dystopian. So traumatizing to witness this and also the pain, 
 
 the anger, the fear, the uncertainty of the people that live in this area. 
 
ASHER: Eleni Giokos, live for us there. Thank you so much. All right, still to come here. After a 14-hour ordeal, eight people are safely rescued from 
 
 a dangling cable car in Pakistan. Reaction from some of the survivors, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[12:51:59]
 
ASHER: Indian authorities are investigating yet another deadly infrastructure accident. At least 17 workers died when a railway bridge 
 
 under construction collapsed. The bridge goes through a mountainous area in northern India and had been under construction for about two years. It is 
 
 the latest in a string of bridge accidents as India attempts to upgrade its decaying infrastructure. 
 
And relief across Pakistan, after eight people including six children were rescued from a cable car dangling hundreds of meters over a valley. 
 
 Officials say that they were going to school on Tuesday when one of the cables snapped leaving them stuck. They were finally rescued after a 14-
 
 hour ordeal. CNN's Paula Hancock has reaction from some of the students who survived the harrowing experience. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: -- this family on solid ground, a relieved smile says it all. 
 
ATTALIAH SHAH, RESCUED TEEN (through translator): I thought it was my last day. I thought it was all over for me. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Attaliah Shah is one of six students rescued along with two teachers, Tuesday, from a cable car hanging precariously 900 feet 
 
 in the air, held up by a solitary cable. 
 
SHAH (through translator): We were going to school around seven in the morning. When the chairlift was halfway there, its rope broke. It was 
 
 dangling. And I was terrified. 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): Local villagers rushed out of their homes, most with children who have used their cable car for their school commute across the 
 
 mountainous terrain. The nearest road is four hours away. The uncle of another student rescued tells us the entire village started beating their 
 
 chests. His mother was distraught, crying. For 14 hours, while our child was up there, we couldn't eat or drink. And only when the children were 
 
 rescued did we feel alive again. 
 
The rescues were daring, a special forces officer hanging from a helicopter carrying one student to safety. Pakistan's military said the mission was 
 
 complicated by strong winds. and a fear of the helicopter's rotor blades destabilizing the lift. When nightfall grounded the helicopters, makeshift 
 
 stretchers on a zip line were pulled by soldiers and locals to save the rest of the students and teachers, some suffering from nausea during the 
 
 14-hour ordeal, reports of others losing consciousness. 
 
AITABAD ULLAH, LOCAL 1122 RESCUE WORKER: We got here at 9 A.M. then the military arrived. The local rescue teams and police, we all worked 
 
 together. And the operation ended in success by 11 at night. 
 
HANCOCKS: Amid nationwide relief, questions about the cable cars in Kaiba- Pak Tung Kwa have emerged. A necessary form of transport in this unforgiving terrain, but often locally built, some using scraps of metal 
 
 and discarded vans, often poorly maintained. 
 
On this occasion, however, ingenuity and teamwork ensured 14 hours of terror had a happy ending. Paula Hancocks, CNN. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[12:55:00]
 
ASHER: And finally, what's tall and tan and stands in a league all on her own? The newest addition to Brights Zoo in Tennessee, a spotless giraffe 
 
 was born at the end of July and made her public debut just a few days ago. The calf is actually a reticulated giraffe, a species native to the Horn of 
 
 Africa, and zoo officials say that she might be the only solid-colored calf of her kind living anywhere on the planet. The zoo's founder says the 
 
 little one is putting a much-needed spotlight on giraffe conservation. Data shows only 16,000 reticulated giraffes remain in the wild. 
 
Now, the spotless superstar just needs a name. The zoo is actually letting fans vote for their favorite. The winning one is going to be announced next 
 
 month. All right. Thank you so much for watching One World. I'm Zain Asher. Amanpour is up next. You're watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END