Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Second Day Of Protests In Several Cities Mostly Peaceful; New: Memphis Scorpion Unit Permanently Deactivated; Now: Trump Campaigns In South Carolina To Kick Off 2024 Bid; Bodycam Video Shows Pelosi Attacked, Police Tackling Assailant; Seven Dead, Five Injured In Jerusalem Shootings Near Places Of Worship; How Loneliness Factors Into An Increase In Gun Violence. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired January 28, 2023 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:38]
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We want peace. We want peaceful protest. That's what the family wants. That's what the community wants.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: They have come out in a way that is in conjunction with what the family has asked for. They have been peaceful while they protest but they are very, very disturbed.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are out here today because we believe that no one else should go through what Tyre Nichols went through.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They are grateful that the video came out, so now the whole world knows what happened, that he was defenseless, that he was helpless.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Look how they grabbed him out of the car. There was no human inside of those men.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Maybe we do have faith and hope that the system is going to get it right this time.
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN HOST: I'm Pamela Brown in Washington and you are in the CNN NEWSROOM.
 
Horrifying cruelty and a heartless disregard for a dying man.
 
Today, outraged Americans are holding small and mostly peaceful protests. In Memphis and several other American cities, protesters are making their voices heard and support of Tyre Nichols, his deadly beating at the hands of five Memphis Police officers is captured on video and released to the public last night.
 
And we want to warn you, the images you're about to see are deeply troubling, but critical in understanding the sheer barbarity of his death.
 
Three weeks ago, Nichols led officers on a foot chase after a traffic stop. A surveillance camera captures officers striking, punching, and kicking him. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(INAUDIBLE CONVERSATIONS)
 
TYRE NICHOLS (VICTIM): Mom.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Watch out. Watch out.
 
NICHOLS: Mom.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: Nichols as you hear their screams for his mother who was at home just blocks away. Officers continue to hit Nichols and use pepper spray. Nichols eventually slumped over unconscious, but for 21 minutes, no one on the scene appears to render the aid that might have saved his life.
 
In just a moment, we will speak to Benjamin Crump, the attorney for Tyre Nichols' family.
 
But first, CNN's Shimon Prokupecz joins us from Memphis.
 
Shimon, the five now former police officers are charged with second- degree murder and just a short time ago, we learned that Special Unit they belonged to is now permanently deactivated. There have been calls for this move and now weeks after Nichols' death, the Police Chief is disbanding it.
 
SHIMON PROKUPECZ, CNN CRIME AND JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: And this is significant, Pam, because this is something that family members, community leaders have been calling for, this disbandment of this SCORPION Unit. This is the unit that these five former officers were part of.
 
They drove around in unmarked cars and they were used to fight crime in heavily crime areas.
 
Let me read the statement that the Police Chief just a short time ago put out announcing this. She writes that: "In the process of listening intently to the family of Tyree Nichols, community leaders, and the uninvolved officers who have done quality work in their assignments, it is in the best interest of all to permanently deactivate the SCORPION unit. The officers currently assigned to the unit agree unreservedly with the next step."
 
Interesting that she says the quality work. If you ask people in this community, they may not feel that way. They have been certainly raising issues with this unit and some of their tactics, aggressive tactics, of course, that they have been concerned about.
 
Now this is a street crime unit, right, and their whole purpose was to fight crime aggressively. Go into these heavy crime areas, and the SCORPION Unit which the name itself has come under some questions, some scrutiny because of just the name, SCORPION, but what it really stands for is the Street Crimes Operation to Restore Peace in our Neighborhoods.
 
It was launched in November 2021, and its intended focus was the homicides, robberies, assaults, and other felonies. And of course, we know from watching this horrific video this unit pulled Tyre Nichols over. They were in unmarked cars and just their aggressive tactics, how aggressive they were in the way that they approached Tyre Nichols and the way they pulled him out of the car, threw him to the ground, and then we know everything else that happened from there.
 <br>[18:05:11]
 
PROKUPECZ: But of course, most importantly, for today, the family members and the community members who have asked for this to happen now get their wish and this unit now being disbanded -- Pamela.
 
BROWN: That's right. We're going to talk to Benjamin Crump, the attorney for the family in just a moment about that.
 
Shimon Prokupecz, thank you.
 
And across the nation, people have been shocked, saddened by the videos that show the ultimately fatal beating of Tyre Nichols at the hands of Memphis Police. There are protests in many cities again today, but most marchers are heeding the pleas of Nichols' mother to stay peaceful.
 
CNN's Polo Sandoval is in New York City.
 
Polo, what are you seeing there now?
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Pamela. We are closely watching what are expected to be really another round of demonstrations from coast to coast tonight, and if it is a repeat of what we saw last night, then most we expect to remain peaceful.
 
Now what we do know is that currently, there is a small group of protesters, demonstrators that are peacefully assembling here in Manhattan, in Washington Square Park as they are preparing really for long list of speakers and hoping that their voices will stand or at least make it all the way to Tennessee and beyond, hoping that they can stand there in solidarity with the Nichols family.
 
I heard from one of the organizers a short while ago basically saying that they are strongly adhering to the wishes of the Nichols family, making sure that any protests tonight do remain peaceful.
 
I want you to hear from one of the organizers that I had an opportunity to speak to, some of our colleagues at affiliate WCBS just a few minutes ago.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISAIAH FENICHAL, NEW YORK CITY ACTIVIST: So we are out here to fight a call for justice once again and continuously because the work did not stop in 2020, it didn't stop in 2021, and it did not stop at 2022. We are still here and we are still fighting until justice is done. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANDOVAL: Now based on reports that we've received from police departments throughout much of the country, many of these demonstrations that we saw yesterday remain peaceful. There was one small, very small, isolated incident in Times Square that resulted in three arrests. But beyond that, again, what we are seeing is that really that message across the board, adhering to those wishes of the Nichols family.
 
And also interesting here Pamela is many of the statements that we are receiving from other law enforcement agencies, they are also, many of them expressing outrage after what we saw in that series of videos yesterday, not just the actions of those officers, but also the inactions as well -- Pamela.
 
BROWN: Yes, the inaction -- just so horrible to see that. Paolo Sandoval, thank you.
 
Joining me now is Benjamin Crump, attorney for the family of Tyre Nichols. Thank you so much for making time for us. I know how busy you are.
 
So we just learned this news laid out there that the specialized unit, the SCORPION unit that these five now former police officers belonged to, it has been disbanded by the Police Chief there. That has been a key demand from the family, and I'm wondering in the wake of this news, does this give you and the family confidence that you're being heard?
 
BENJAMIN CRUMP, ATTORNEY FOR THE FAMILY OF TYRE NICHOLS: It certainly does, Pamela. His parents, RowVaughn and Rodney Well, my co-counsel, Antonio Romanucci and I, we saw that that was part of the culture, as responsible as those five officers were for killing Tyre Nichols and that reprehensible conduct we saw on that video, we think that this was part of the culture of the SCORPION unit, and so we demanded that they disbanded immediately before we see anything like this happen again.
 
Citizens, other citizens have come to us and said that "They also attacked us." There was one young man, four or five days before this happened to Tyre Nichols who said he was simply going to get pizza, he stopped at the stop sign, and they pulled him out, used all kinds of profane language, threw him on the ground and put a gun to his head.
 
And so he tried to report them to the Memphis Police Department twice, never got a call back and we believe had somebody been attentive, that Tyre Nichols may not have been killed in this way.
 
BROWN: Right. I mean, watching that video, it's horrifying to see the way that they are brutally beating him up and then just standing around as he is suffering there by the car, but the reality is, the other officers on that SCORPION unit, they're still part of the department. What do you think about that?
 
CRUMP: Well, I think we need to know if there is a pattern and practice of excessive use of force. I know the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division is investigating this killing of Tyre Nichols, but our hope is that we will expand to pattern and practice because many citizens have questioned not just the SCORPION unit, but the Memphis Police Department and their policing whether it is bias or not towards Black people
 <br>[18:10:08]
 
BROWN: It is important to look into and also that there are people reaching out and their complaints weren't being heard before this Tyre Nichols' death that garnered national attention. That's concerning.
 
You have said though, about the Police Chief that she has handled this well, firing the officers. We now know they have been charged, releasing the full video to the public.
 
You said this is the blueprint, but after the release of that video, a lot of questions have also been raised about her ability to lead the department and whether she is taking these steps to save her own job. I want you to listen to what retired LAPD Sergeant Cheryl Dorsey said on our air, just this last hour about the Police Chief.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SGT. CHERY DORSEY (RET), LOS ANGELES POLICE: Just like she got rid of those five in two weeks, she can get rid of everybody who was on scene who acquiesced that misconduct, committing misconduct themselves.
 
She has got problems and she understands that and maybe that's why she's hiding. She needs to go as well.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: What do you think?
 
CRUMP: Well, I think from what I've seen, Chief Davis has been very exemplary in her leadership. I do think that as Mr. Wells, Tyre's father has said over and over again, everybody on that scene, who either engaged or didn't do anything to help save his son should be terminated.
 
We believe there was a White officer who may have been a supervisor or a senior level person who tased him initially, and then when you listen to all of the audio, there was somebody, and many believe it was him who said, "I hope when they catch him, they stomp him."
 
BROWN: Stomp -- yes. Yes. That was really disturbing.
 
CRUMP: Yes, and so that that shows that there is a pattern. But I will say this, she terminated those officers quickly. They were arrested and they were charged in less than 20 days. We haven't really seen that. But with these five Black officers, they did.
 
So that's why I'm saying this is the blueprint going forward, even when it's not Black officers. When you see police officers commit crimes against citizens, then we want you to act just as swiftly and show, as the Chief said, the community needs to see it, but we need to see it too when it is White police officers.
 
BROWN: Do you think if they were White, it wouldn't have happened this swiftly?
 
CRUMP: I mean, in our community do not believe they would have acted swiftly. They would have come up with all kinds of excuses like they normally do, Pamela. They wouldn't say, oh, well, why didn't he comply? Why did he run? And you see what those officers were saying and doing to him?
 
Wouldn't you have run if somebody was cursing at you saying "Get on the ground." "I'm on the ground" and they still hit you. What was Tyre to do? And the humanity in him showed throughout. He never used profanity towards them. He said, "What did I do? I just want to go home."
 
BROWN: Yes, he said, "You guys are doing a lot," in that first encounter, like what's going on here? What did I do to garner this? And then ran away after, and now we know from after the video was released, two Deputies are on leave from Shelby County. The Sheriff there putting them on leave. They were there on the scene apparently pending an investigation.
 
Do you anticipate more fallout? Possibly more people being charged, such as the EMS workers?
 
CRUMP: I think there is going to be more fallout, whether that's going to lead to charges, criminal charges, we have to see. But we do think there were some other officers there that should have been charged, not just these five, because they definitely should have been charged.
 
But we think the other officers there, how heartbreaking was it when he was handcuffed there on the ground moaning and everybody was walking around so nonchalantly as if this is just business as usual? That's why we said the SCORPION unit had to go because I believe the citizens, this was business as usual, how they trampled on the constitutional rights of these citizens in this community.
 
BROWN: Well, and as I'm watching it, I'm thinking, wow, we are fortunate to live in an age where there is so much camera documentation, right? There was the pole camera, there was the body cameras. We didn't used to have that, and the fact that they were still talking this way and acting this way with the cameras all around, what does that say to you?
 
CRUMP: It was heinous. It meant that there is a culture, there is institutionalized police culture that says whether you're a Black officer, a Hispanic officer, or a White officer, that you can engage in excessive use of force against persons of color and get away with it.
 
Pamela, we don't see our White brothers and sisters who are unarmed have this type of excessive force leveled against them. Where are those videos? But how many videos have young unarmed Black man have we seen? You know George Floyd, Laquan McDonald, Eric Garner, EJ Bradford, Terence Crutcher. I mean, the list goes on and on and on.
 
BROWN: It is heartbreaking. I was just going through a whole list of all the different police brutality cases, and you are absolutely right to your point.
 
This case, what really also stuck out to me was just the fact that they were not only just standing around, but he didn't receive medical help for more than 20 minutes.
 
Have you been given any more explanation as to why that was?
 
CRUMP: Not only that, Pamela. You saw them not extend any humanity to this human being who is obviously in distress. I mean, he is moaning.
 
Anybody can see he needed medical help, but his parents were told by Memphis Police officers that he was just pepper sprayed and tased and that he was at a nearby hospital. And they said, well, we want to go to him. And they told them, you can't go because he is under arrest.
 
And had it not been for the doctor calling RowVaughn Wells, his mother at four o'clock in the morning, they never would have knew that he was in respiratory distress and that his lungs were collapsing.
 
And I mean, there needs to be accountability from top to bottom and we have to hold them accountable because that's the only way we can honor the legacy of Tyre Nichols, and like we tell President Biden, we need to marshal the United States Senate and have them have hearings to try to get the George Floyd Justice for Policing Act passed and then work on the House, because if not, if we don't have Federal law, Pamela, we're going to be talking about this over and over again, because it was the culture that was just as guilty for killing Tyre Nichols as those officers.
 
BROWN: Benjamin Crump, thank you for your time.
 
CRUMP: Thank you.
 
BROWN: And please send our love and our well wishes to Tyre's family. I've just been thinking about them so much. They're heavy on our hearts.
 
CRUMP: I certainly will.
 
BROWN: Well, as we've discussed, the Memphis Police Department is scrapping its SCORPION unit after the death of Tyre Nichols. Should other departments consider getting rid of their own special crime units?
 
Plus, former President Donald Trump kickstarts his push for the White House in 2024 with visits to two States that couldn't be key for his early success. So why is he telling another Republican, hey, you should join the race, too.
 
And then later, we know America faces a gun violence epidemic. We cover it often on this show, but how does loneliness play into it? I talk to the Surgeon General and a Senator who are working on that. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:21:59]
 
BROWN: As America reacts to the brutal video showing the beating of Tyre Nichols, President Biden is calling on Congress to act and pass the George Floyd Act saying there is only so much he can do on the executive level, but is the law enforcement community doing enough to police itself?
 
Joining us now is CNN senior law enforcement analyst and former DC Police Chief Charles Ramsey, and CNN law enforcement analyst and former Deputy Director of the FBI, Andrew McCabe.
 
So, Andrew, the Memphis Police Department permanently deactivated the SCORPION unit. Should other departments follow suit on these kinds of tactical teams? How common are these teams?
 
ANDREW MCCABE, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, they are pretty common, Pam, and I don't think that the move to eradicate the SCORPION unit in Memphis necessarily means that every other unit has to go. I mean, this one absolutely had to go. There is no way that any citizen of Memphis could have the requisite level of trust, faith in officers who are deployed under that banner, having seen this video, so that had to go.
 
My bigger concern, though is there were problems -- there could be systemic problems, problems of failures of leadership, failure of training, toxic culture within that unit that go beyond the five officers that we saw on the video, and that is a problem that you see coming up in different similar units around the country.
 
The best example I can think of is the Baltimore Gun Crimes Task Force, another unit that had kind of really legendary leadership and kind of toxic culture issue.
 
So other departments would be well-guided to review the performance of similar units to take steps to make sure that they don't have a unit with officers who are running amok in the same way it did in Memphis.
 
BROWN: Good, because you heard, Chief Ramsey, I was asking Benjamin Crump about that, you know that the five officers who were fired are part of that unit, but there were other officers part of that unit, who are still part of the Memphis Police Department. And as you heard him say, look, it's a culture issue. Right?
 
So what do you do about that? The fact that this is a bigger issue than just these five officers who were on that unit?
 
CHARLES RAMSEY, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Well, first of all, I agree with what Andrew just said. There is no question that the SCORPION unit had to go, but then to take and think that every specialized unit across the country needs to go is in my opinion, not necessary at all. You have to have some flexibility in terms of your deployment of personnel, you need some officers that are not tied to the radio that you can actually, you know, beef up the deployment in areas that are experiencing higher levels of crime and so forth.
 
But having said that, I think the most important thing is that one, there be a very careful screening of every officer that's in a unit like that, including the background, looking for use of force, looking for integrity issues, and the same thing applies to the supervisors that are assigned there, particularly the first line supervisors, the sergeants.
 
You have to look at the span of control and the average span of control and patrol is about eight to 10 people. For a specialized unit like that, it should be about four or five at the most.
 <br>[18:25:12]
 
RAMSEY: And they need to be on the street, and in that way, you can really start to monitor when complaints come in. You need to be taking a strong look at those complaints that are being made against those officers.
 
So, you know, there is a subculture that exists within policing, and I think the SCORPION unit is an example of that. The Gun Trace Task Force is an example of that. But the problem I have when people start talking about culturally, they try to apply it to every police officer across the board and that is just not true.
 
BROWN: Yes, it is not. I mean, look, you know, police officers are -- who would you call in the middle of the night if you have an attacker in your home? Right? I mean, the police officers often put their own lives in harm's way to protect others in the community.
 
That does not mean there isn't a larger issue, or there are issues with the subculture in police departments. Both can be true at the same time, and I think that's what we're talking about here. There is nuance to it in that way.
 
And I'm wondering, Andrew, now that you've had some time to reflect on this video, what questions do you have for the Memphis PD? And do you think the Police Chief should continue to serve in her role?
 
MCCABE: Well, I think as we've been discussing, there are serious questions about the people who served in the SCORPION unit. You can't indict them all or accuse them all of being like their colleagues who we saw on the video, but certainly you have enough of a concern now from having seen it that the entirety of that unit should be reviewed for the sorts of potential issues that Chief Ramsey and I have just been mentioning.
 
As far as the Police Chief is concerned, you know, from my limited view, I mean, she has been very proactive in terms of responding to the acts of these officers by suspending them and of course, firing them and now of course, we see a criminal prosecution going pretty quickly. I think all those acts are to her credit. The question is what happens next? You have a strong issue here, potential issue across that unit, and maybe other places in the department. I'd really like to see this Police Chief take those next steps maybe bring an outsiders, possibly the Department of Justice or others to take a stem to stern look at this unit and other units that she may have concerns about to make sure that they have adequate supervision, and the right sort of people exactly the things that Chief Ramsey just mentioned.
 
BROWN: All right, Andrew McCabe and Chief Ramsey, thank you so much.
 
Well, after a months' long hiatus from the campaign trail, Donald Trump is back making his first stop in New Hampshire, and right now, he is in South Carolina. Why is he back on the trail and suggesting a rival join the race? We're going to discuss, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:32:10]
 
BROWN: Former President Trump is speaking in South Carolina as he returns to the campaign trail. The former president appearing before a packed crowd at the South Carolina statehouse and delivering a rambling speech jam packed with his familiar brand of grievance politics.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We're going to end the free reign of violent criminals in Democrat-run cities and keep dangerous repeat offenders locked up in jail where they belong. We're going to stop the left-wing radical racists and perverts who are trying to indoctrinate our youth.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: Lots of fact checks coming up, folks. This is the former president's second stop today. Earlier he held an event in New Hampshire where he assured supporters he's more committed and angrier than ever before.
 
Joining us now is CNN Senior Political Commentator, Scott Jennings. He has served as an advisor to Sen. Mitch McConnell and other Republican elected officials.
 
All right. Scott, here we go. Just moments ago, Trump also took several shots at Florida governor, Ron DeSantis, saying, "Ron would have not been governor if it wasn't for me. So when I hear he might run, I consider that very disloyal." Are you surprised to see him openly criticizing DeSantis this early? What do you think?
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: No, I'm not surprised. If you think back on the '16 primary, he was taking shots at everybody in the race, even people who were 0 percent and 1 percent. In the case of DeSantis, there are a lot of polls where DeSantis is ahead of Donald Trump, including in key early states, so I'm not surprised. I expect him to come after DeSantis pretty hard.
 
Trump's the only person officially in the race right now. But it sure looks like DeSantis is going to run. And if you look at the whole field, the Florida Governor looks like the one who might have the reservoir of support among all corners of the party to actually beat Donald Trump at a primary.
 
BROWN: Well, then what do you make about this phone call we're learning about with Nikki Haley calling him saying she wants to get in the race and feeling him out and he said, basically, if that's what you feel in your heart, go for it. I mean, on one hand, it really works to his advantage, right, to have as many join the race as possible.
 
JENNINGS: Yes. A big field who actually stays in it through the voting helps Donald Trump. In 2016, he only got about 45 percent of the Republican vote, but he won the nomination because of the winner take all system, you would just have to get the most votes in the states to get all the delegates.
 
And so if he could get a big feel that stays in it for far too long, it would really advantage him or frankly anyone who kind of carries a strong base, but it's not a majority of the party. My anticipation is the field will be smaller this time around and people will drop out earlier than they did last time.
 
What you really need if you want to take out Donald Trump is to get it down to a one-on-one match with somebody that people really like. And right now it looks like DeSantis is that person. Other people will give it a go, but certainly DeSantis is in a class by himself of the non-Trump candidates.
 <br>[18:35:04]
 
BROWN: Yes. And on that note, I mean, we've been seeing some interesting polling data out of those key early primary states. Ron DeSantis, coming in well-ahead of Trump among Republicans in New Hampshire, leading the former president by a full 12 points. There are similar numbers there in South Carolinas. I mean, with numbers like that, Scott, is Trump losing his title as the party's 2024 front runner?
 
JENNINGS: I think he is still probably the front runner, if you take all the metrics into account. Money, organization, a cadre of people who are fully dependent upon him for their livelihoods, I mean, he still is a quite a formidable candidate, so I guess, nominally, he's the front runner.
 
And plus, there are no other candidates, technically, at the moment. But you can't look at this polling, if you're Ron DeSantis and not be fully intrigued by where you stand. You've done nothing, you've not filed a committee, all you've done is run for election and trumps your Democratic opponent. And yet you are right here in the driver's seat of the candidates who want to take on and maybe take out Donald Trump.
 
So I expect him to run and I think he's going to be quite popular. I've seen a lot of polling, Pamela, from around the country in different states, private polling, I got to tell you, Trump's still popular, DeSantis is just as popular, but he doesn't have nearly the amount of detractors inside the party that Trump does.
 
BROWN: Yes. I mean, even just anecdotally, in our home state of Kentucky when I was talking to folks there recently, there was a theme of folks who used to support Trump saying, I'd like to see Ron DeSantis get in this race. I'd like to see him run. But at the same time, you've got to look at the reality here, right, and what Trump did the last time and what he is capable of doing again.
 
Matthew Continetti has an interesting piece in the Free Beacon where he warns that the U.S. political class is behaving alarmingly similar to how they did in the run up to 2016, writing: "Once again, Trump's opponents think he will just disappear. No Republican wants to attack him directly. But the only way to thwart him, Trump, is to make voters choose someone else."
 
I mean, at what point do these challengers start challenging him? Even Ron DeSantis has been - hasn't really been doing that - doing the kind of direct engagement you might expect?
 
JENNINGS: I would say pretty soon, you're going to see people start to take further steps. I mean, for the people who are not Trump or DeSantis, one of the problems they have is figuring out is there any oxygen for me? I mean, Trump and DeSantis, take up nearly the entire oxygen in the primary right now. Everybody else is in the low single digits, even former Vice President Pence, who's well known is a single digit candidate right now.
 
So I'm not sure it's as much Trump keeping them out as it is DeSantis, because of how popular (inaudible) nationally with Republicans. But I agree with Matthew, at some point somebody is going to have to take him on and somebody's going to have to make Republicans choose.
 
And I will say I think broadly across the American electorate in both parties, there is a demand for new candidates, new blood new generation of leadership, and the party that chooses new is going to have a huge advantage if the other party chooses, oh, and if I were Ron DeSantis, that's something I'd be making the case for.
 
Democrats are going Biden, let's pick somebody new and ride this thing and win it and put together a coalition that can carry the national popular vote.
 
BROWN: All right. Scott Jennings, nice to see you. Thank you.
 
Well, the San Francisco Superior Court has released the video and audio of the October attack on Paul Pelosi, the husband of then-House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. The disturbing footage includes police body cam video revealing the moment the suspect hit the 82-year-old with a hammer.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What's going on, man? DAVID DEPAPE: Everything's good.
 
PAUL PELOSI: Hi.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Drop the hammer.
 
DEPAPE: Nope.
 
PELOSI: Hey, hey, hey, hey --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What is going on right there.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Inaudible) we're not getting any answer on the phone (inaudible) --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Inaudible) --
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (Inaudible) in the area (inaudible) --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Inaudible) --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (Inaudible) backup code three.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: CNN's Camila Bernal is coming this for us.
 
Camila, we also have audio recording of the 911 call where the operator sort of seemingly didn't catch on to who this was on the other line at first and then was able to detect that something was serious was going on, it seems.
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Pam. Paul Pelosi calls 911 at some point after David DePape breaks into his house, which by the way, there's also surveillance video of David DePape breaking into the home, but he gets a hold of 911 and he's having this conversation with dispatch. And he's trying to keep this balance where he tells the dispatcher, look, there's someone in my house that I don't know, while also balancing this situation and being extremely careful because David DePape is listening in.
 <br>[18:40:01]
 
He even pitches into the conversation. I want you to listen to that audio, here it is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is San Francisco Police. Do you need help?
 
PELOSI: Oh well, there is a gentleman here just waiting for my wife to come back. Nancy Pelosi. He's just waiting for her to come back, but she's not going to be here for days so I guess we'll have to wait.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Okay. Do you need police, fire or medical for anything? PELOSI: I don't think so. I don't think so. Yes, there's the - is the Capitol Police around?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. This is San Francisco --
 
PELOSI: They're usually here to protect my wife. They're usually here. They're usually here at the house protecting my wife.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL: And after that 911 call, police officers responded to the house here behind me. That's that body cam video that essentially takes you into the Pelosi household and that's when you see the attack. Even Nancy Pelosi saying she is not watching that video. And now we will just have to wait to see that court process plays out, Pam.
 
BROWN: Camila Bernal, thank you.
 
Well, Israel says it will deliver a strong fast and accurate response to a deadly attack outside of synagogue. The latest from Jerusalem up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:45:34]
 
BROWN: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is calling for action this weekend after an eruption of deadly violence in Jerusalem.
 
CNN's Hadas Gold is following the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Two shooting attacks rock Jerusalem this weekend just 15 hours apart in what Israeli officials are calling one of the worst terrorist attacks in recent memory. Saturday morning, police say a 13-year-old Palestinian boy shot and injured two men just outside the Old City before being shot and injured himself.
 
And then the previous evening at a synagogue in northeast Jerusalem after Shabbat services, authorities say a 21-year-old Palestinian from East Jerusalem began shooting worshippers as they left killing seven, including 14-year-old Asher Natan and injuring three more before fleeing by car. Minutes later, he was shot and killed by police.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEAN ELSDUNNE, ISRAELI POLICE INTERNATIONAL SPOKESPERSON: This is a significant rise in the level of terror that we have seen and it marks a heinous attack on the holy Sabbath day.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLD (voice over): The shooting celebrated in parts of the Palestinian territories coming today after what became the deadliest day for Palestinians in the West Bank in over a year.
 
An unusual daylight raid by the Israeli military on Thursday in the occupied West Bank, targeting members of the Islamic Jihad the Israeli military said who are planning they say an imminent attack. The ensuing firefight killing nine among the militants but also a woman in her 60s according to the Palestinian health authorities.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through interpreter): She opened the window to look over to check what's going on. A bullet hit her here in her neck. The bullet hit the wall and the TV screen.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLD (voice over): The Palestinian Authority calling the raid a massacre announcing they were severing security coordinations with Israel as a result and then rockets launched by militants in Gaza toward Israel, Israel responding with airstrikes, although no injuries were reported on either side.
 
In the past few days, a major test for the recently installed government under Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu under pressure from his right wing cabinet to respond with force.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through interpreter): I will bring to the cabinet additional measures to fight terrorism. This includes significantly speeding up and expanding gun licensing for licensed citizens. As we've seen time and time again, including this morning, this thing saves lives.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOLD (voice over): International condemnation and sympathies poured in including by President Joe Biden as U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken prepares to make a pre-planned trip to the region where his meetings with Israeli and Palestinian leadership under even higher stakes.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GOLD (on camera): One of the major issues that Secretary of State Antony Blinken will likely be talking about with his Israeli Palestinian counterparts will be that security coordination that the Palestinian Authority announced they were severing on Thursday with the Israelis after that Israeli military raid in Jenin.
 
This security coordination does govern some civilian matters like permits, but also really importantly, it involves intelligence sharing, sensibly to help both sides fight terrorism and violence. Now, it's not the first time the Palestinian Authority has cut off the security coordination, they did so in 2020 for about six months. But experts do really believe that the security coordination is really vital for this region, and that they fear what could happen if it's not restored soon, Pam.
 
BROWN: All right. Hadas Gold, thank you.
 
The U.S. saw 43 mass shootings in just the first 28 days of this year. Up next, how a senator and a former surgeon general - current surgeon general are focused on a possible factor that may not be obvious to a lot of us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:53:31]
 
BROWN: We've only just started 2023 and already have had more mass shootings than days in the year, think about that. One critical factor that has been looked at more closely now is loneliness. Sen. Chris Murphy and Surgeon General Vivek Murthy spoke with me about this and whether there's a way to address it and help in the crisis of gun violence in America.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: I'm wondering, do you see a link between the epidemic of loneliness and the problem America is facing with gun violence, Senator?
 
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): Well, thanks for having this conversation with us. Listen, I think there's no doubt that today there are more people that are feeling intensely lonely or alone than ever before. I think we've got to start looking at this as an issue that is solvable in part by better public policy. There's no doubt that some of the people that carry out acts of violence, especially violence against themselves, are doing that from a place of loneliness.
 
At the same time, we know there's really no link between mental illness and violence in the sense that people who are mentally ill or lonely are much more likely to be the victims of violence and the perpetrators --
 
BROWN: Completely.
 
MURPHY: -- of violence. But if you do look at people, especially who commit suicide, and that's two-thirds of gun deaths in this country, those are people who have had a break from their community who are feeling intensely lonely and I think there's no doubt that if you do more to connect people to each other, you are likely going to have a positive impact on the rates of violence in this country.
 <br>[18:55:02]
 
So I think we got to be careful to sort of immediately equate loneliness with violence. There's not an automatic connection, but there is a connection, and you will have less violence, particularly self-harm, suicides.
 
DR. VIVEK MURTHY, UNITED STATES SURGEON GENERAL: Well, one of the things that's interesting about loneliness and deeply concerning is that it's incredibly common. And it is, in fact, more common among people who are younger.
 
And this is a little counterintuitive, because most people think, because young people are on technology often, and they're using social media most frequently that they can't be lonely. But it turns out that they, in fact, talk about some of the highest rates of loneliness when I talk to them in store around the country, but when you look at surveys as well. It tells us that young people are really struggling.
 
But there is another important point to keep in mind here, which is that loneliness can manifest differently in different people. Some people may react to loneliness by withdrawing and by being quiet, not reaching out to others. Others may react to loneliness and by developing resentment and by lashing out at others, it vary to individual.
 
But I think it's important to remember that if we want to really get at the roots of violence, well, mental health is an important consideration, it is not the primary force that is driving violence in our country and we've got to recognize that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BROWN: As rates of loneliness increase in younger people, as you just heard there from the U.S. Surgeon General, how does their increased screen time play a part in that? More of my interview with them next hour, so stick around.
 
Also, new developments tonight in the death of Tyre Nichols, Memphis Police shutting down the unit that has implicated in his killing. I'll speak with the congressman who represents Memphis about how the community moves on from this tragedy.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)