Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel Receives List Of Hostages To Be Released Saturday; Group Of 24 Hostages Released By Hamas Friday; Ten Thai, One Filipino Citizens Free On First Day Of Truce; U.N. Announces 137 Trucks Of Aid Entered Gaza Friday; Biden Said "We Will Not Stop" Until U.S. Hostages Brought Home; Oscar Pistorius Granted Parole; All Former Hostages Receiving Medical Care In Tel Aviv; CNN Speaks To Families Of Hostages Left Behind; Online Sales, Small Biz Saturday Eat Into Traditional Shopping. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired November 25, 2023 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[01:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Hello and welcome, everyone. I'm Michael Holmes, appreciate your company. 
 
We begin this hour in Israel, where 13 Israeli citizens and 11 foreign nationals are out of Gaza and back in Israel after 49 days as hostages of Hamas. The four-day pause in the fighting that made their release possible is entering day two and appears to be holding. 
 
A live look at Gaza, where it's 8:00 am. Israel says it has received a list of Israeli hostages who should be released sometime on Saturday and has notified their families. According to the Israeli source, several children are on the list. 
 
Of the group released on Friday, 13 were Israelis and 11were foreign nationals, all of them taken to several Tel Aviv hospitals for medical evaluations. Among the non-Israelis were 10 Thai and one Filipino citizens. They're getting checked out near Tel Aviv. 
 
A spokesperson for the Israeli military lauded the release of the 24 but cautioned the process is far from over. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REAR ADMIRAL DANIEL HAGARI, IDF SPOKESPERSON (through translator): The sight of those who have safely crossed the border into Israel evokes a profound sense of relief. Yet our hearts still remains with the hostages still held in Gaza. Tonight, we embrace the families of the hostages, keeping them constantly in our thoughts. 
 
It is our moral obligation to ensure a safe return of everyone home. We are only at the beginning of the process. We are preparing to continue implementing the plan for the return of the abductees. 
 
The days ahead will present complexities. Nothing is certain until it is accomplished. We must be prepared. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: The first images of the hostages was video taken by Hamas. CNN had no control over the content. We show it to you now and our Matthew Chance explains what it shows and does not. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): They kidnapped and killed but now Hamas is showing its gunman releasing Israelis in Gaza. For many, these are disturbing scenes. Nine year old, Ohad Munder being embraced, as he set free, then a woman being carried by a masked man as Palestinians cheer.
 
For 49 long days of captivity in Gaza, aid workers from the Red Cross drive them through the border into Egypt and to freedom. Egyptian television shows a convoy of vehicles heading to the crossing. 
 
Then the hostages including 10 Thais, a Filipino and the 13 Israeli women and children disembarking for checks. Israeli military posted this grainy video of the moment they all finally reentered the country. A step says the Israeli Prime Minister toward bringing all hostages home. 
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAEL PRIME MINISTER (through translator): We have just completed the return of the first of our hostages, children, their mothers and additional women. Each one of them is a whole world. But I emphasize to you the families and to you, citizens of Israel, we are committed to return all our hostages.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): Most of the hostages released in this first group under the temporary truce were taken from Nir Oz, one of the small Israeli communities near Gaza ravaged by Hamas on October the seventh. At least 38 people there were killed and more than 70 abducted.
 
People like Daniel Aloni and her five year old daughter, Emilia, both freed in this latest release but the relatives they were visiting when Hamas attacked remain unaccounted for as hostages. 
 
Doron Katz Asher and her two young daughters have also now been set free but her partner remains in Gaza. Behind every release, a poignant reminder of those left behind. Like the family of Omri Almog, his brother in law and niece killed, his sister and her three children still hostages. 
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
CHANCE (voice-over): Yet Omri is now optimistic.
 
OMRI ALMOG, FAMILY KIDNAPPED AND KILLED BY HAMAS: The best is in front of us is going to come. Whatever happened we cannot change. Nadav is not longer with us. Yam, the beautiful girl is not with us anymore. But --
 
CHANCE: There's still a chance. There's still a chance for your sister. ALMOG: Yes, yes, yes, yes. We have to bring what left, we need to bring back what's left from this family. It's a broken family.
 
CHANCE (voice-over): A broken family in a country of shattered lives -- Matthew Chance, CNN, Tel Aviv. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: CNN's Scott McLean is live from Istanbul. 
 
Tell us more about what happened Friday and what is expected today. 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: If all goes according to plan, we should see a similar scene play out for each of the next three days as all 50 Israeli hostages are handed over in exchange for 150 Palestinian prisoners as well. 
 
Also there are the foreign nationals, 10 Thais and one Filipino, who were released. It's not clear how many more might be released. We understand there are still some 20 Thais held hostage inside of Gaza. 
 
You mentioned the Israelis have the list of hostages that will be released today. We won't know their names until they're safely on Israeli soil. All of this is rather delicate. It is entirely possible the truce, expected to last four days, could hold longer, allowing hostages beyond the initial 50 and 150 to be released. 
 
Ten per day, if that were to be the case. But all of this is delicate. We already saw clashes between IDF and people who had gathered outside of a prison in West Bank, which was used to facilitate the release of some prisoners held by Israel in the West Bank. 
 
So perhaps it wouldn't take much to derail all of this. The families are waiting anxiously to see what happens next. You mentioned and we saw it in Matthew's piece, video taken by Hamas, showing them handing over their part of the hostages. 
 
And people in the video were cheering. Hamas has plenty to cheer about in all of this, because they have few good cards to play in this war but the hostages are one of them. 
 
While this truce was brokered by Israel, Hamas, the U.S. and Egypt, it was implemented carefully on the ground by the Red Cross, who emphasizes all of this is complicated. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FABRIZIO CARBONI, REGIONAL DIRECTOR, NEAR AND MIDDLE EAST, INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS: Sometimes it looks like it's just driving people from one place to another but it is about agreeing on when, how, what. And all of this needs to be coordinated with different movements also outside Gaza. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCLEAN: As you know, the hostages taken from Gaza were driven to Egypt briefly and back into Israel, where they were taken to various hospitals across the country by helicopter. One of the landing sites was in Tel Aviv. 
 
As the vehicles went past, people on the streets started clapping and cheering, evidence of how emotional this is for people on both sides of this. 
 
HOLMES: Scott, appreciate the update, from Istanbul, appreciate that. 
 
Scott was talking about 11 foreign nationals, 10 Thai, one Filipino. They're spending their freedom in a hospital undergoing testing as well. Manisha Tank is in Singapore covering that side of things.
 
Good to see you. Tell us about the freed hostages and the reaction in their home countries to news of their release. 
 
MANISHA TANK, JOURNALIST: Michael, the last few weeks, it's been such negative news from Gaza, hasn't it?
 
But here for those released, there is positivity, relief and hope. We were hearing about the precarious nature of the negotiations and agreements. But there's hope here. 
 
The Thai government, as it put out its press releases talking about their hostages being released, was asking of Hamas that the remaining hostages -- said to be some 20 -- be treated humanely and be released as soon as possible. 
 
One of the Thai hostages released --
 <br>[01:10:00]
 
TANK: -- her mother spoke to our producers in Bangkok and described how she cried out of happiness when she realized her daughter was getting on the bus. 
 
She recognized her hairstyle and the way she walks. It's quite surprising to some of the families who didn't know if it would be their loved ones released. 
 
Jimmy Pacheco is the Filipino who has been released, a 33 year-old father of three. This is not just the story of one hostage but of a family, a community. Many are migrant workers who went to Israel to earn money for a better life. 
 
And it's a sad fact that many of them have been caught up in the terrible attacks that happened on October 7th. This is why such high numbers of them are being reported as either still abducted or being released in today's agreement. 
 
HOLMES: Manisha Tank, thank you, from Singapore. 
 
Well, 39 Palestinians are free after they were released from Israeli prisons on Friday as part of the hostage agreement with Hamas. They returned to their hometowns and families with hugs and celebrations in the West Bank and Jerusalem. But for some, the joy of freedom tempered by the suffering ongoing in
 
 Gaza. CNN's Nada Bashir reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A joyous celebration as 23- year-old Malak Suleiman finally arrives home in East Jerusalem after six years in an Israeli prison. Convicted and sentenced to 10 years in prison at the age of 17 for attempted murder. 
 
Police say they found a knife in her possession in the old City of Jerusalem. It is a charge she and her family have long denied.
 
Suleiman is one of 39 prisoners, all women and minors released from jails in Israel on Friday. In exchange for the release of hostages who had been held by Hamas in Gaza.
 
BASHIR: We saw many of those detainees now released -- those prisoners now released, rather, being carried on people's shoulders to the municipality building where a number of their family members were waiting among them; 15 minors who were released being carried up this road on people's shoulders, too. 
 
Much cheering and celebration, even fireworks being set off. We've also been speaking to people, including relatives, who say they didn't want to see these crowds.
 
WAEL HAJ AHMED, GAZA RESIDENT, WEST BANK (through translator): This celebration is not necessary. They need to be mindful of us in Gaza. This celebration is wrong. I am torn to pieces. Have a little mercy on us. They can be joyful but the joy is in the heart because we are dying in Gaza. Have some respect for us a little.
 
BASHIR (voice-over): The release of this first group of Palestinian prisoners comes as Israel and Hamas begin a four-day truce, a window of desperately needed respite for civilians in Gaza. According to Hamas run health authorities in Gaza, nearly 15,000 Palestinians in the enclave have been killed over the last seven weeks alone.
 
Israel says, it is targeting Hamas in response to the terror attack of October 7th, which killed more than 1,200 Israeli citizens. But in Gaza, it is civilians that are paying the highest price. 
 
More than 8,000 Palestinians remain in Israeli jails, including more than 3,000, according to the Palestinian Commission for Detainees and Ex- Prisoners' Affairs held under administrative detention, meaning no clear charges and no clear legal process.
 
But for those gathered in the occupied West Bank on Friday night, this is a welcome moment of, in their eyes, long overdue justice.
 
UM TARIQ, PALESTINIAN-AMERICAN CITIZEN: People want to gather and be together in this moment. And however, folks internalize that in terms of their own emotional, sort of, reaction to it, that's for them to speak to. 
 
But I think people want to be here to be together. To welcome home these prisoners and that's part of the spirit of being Palestinian.
 
BASHIR (voice-over): With over 100 Palestinian prisoners still set for release over the next few days, scenes like this are expected to continue, though some say at too high a price -- Nada Bashir, CNN, in Jerusalem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
HOLMES: The United Nations says 137 trucks filled with humanitarian goods were off-loaded on Friday, the first day of the truce, the largest aid convoy into Gaza since the October 7th Hamas attack on Israel. 
 
The U.N. humanitarian affairs office says 130,000 liters of fuel --
 <br>[01:15:00]
 
HOLMES: -- and four trucks of cooking oil were also delivered on Friday. And the agency says the food, water, medical supplies and other essential items will help hundreds of thousands of people in Gaza. A spokesperson for the U.N. Children's Fund is calling for more aid and safe conditions for aid workers. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RICARDO PIRES, SPOKESPERSON, UNICEF: On the ground our colleagues are saying having this pause is essential to be able to get to the families and children who have been suffering for so many weeks and under attack. 
 
But it's not going to finish the job, so to speak. We need more aid to come in, we need more safety for humanitarian workers to operate. 
 
Remember at least 100 U.N. colleagues died since the October 7th events. And without more ceasefires, without more pauses, the situation will only worsen. And we're talking about hundreds of thousands of children affected in one of the most densely populated places on the planet. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES: Some of the American hostages held by Hamas could be soon released. What President Biden is saying about efforts to bring them home -- when we come back. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:20:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
HOLMES: Before the end of the four-day truce between Israel and Hamas, three American hostages held in Gaza are expected to be released, including a young girl who turned 4 while in captivity. President Biden said he will not stop until they're all brought home. CNN's Arlette Saenz with that. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: President Biden welcomed the initial release of the hostages held by Hamas. He said it was just a start to the process but said he believes this had unfolded well. 
 
But it does come as Americans were not included in that initial batch of hostages released. The president said it's his hope and expectation that there will be three Americans heading out in coming days.
 
That includes two women and also 4-year-old Abigail Idan. It was her birthday on Friday. Her parents were killed in the October 7th attack by Hamas and she's been held hostage for the past seven weeks. 
 
President Biden had very few details to offer relating to his expectation on when exactly these Americans would be getting out. Listen to what he had to tell reporters. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We don't know when that will occur but we're going to -- expect it to occur. And we don't know what the list of all the hostages are and when they'll be released. But we know the numbers who are going to be released. So it's my hope and expectation it will be soon.
 
QUESTION: And of the 10 Americans that are unaccounted for, do you know all of their conditions?
 
Are they all alive?
 
BIDEN: We don't know all their conditions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAENZ: Still a number of unanswered questions about the fate of these American hostages being held by Hamas. 
 
But President Biden also expressed some optimism, that this pause in the fighting that's currently slated for four days, he believes it could possibly be extended to get even more than the 50 women and children negotiated in the initial deal. 
 
President Biden had been working the phones throughout the week, including to the leaders of Egypt, Qatar and Israel. He said he will be staying in contact with the leaders in the region to make sure the deal stay on track. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Arlette Saenz there.
 
We're getting word of a new wave of Russian drone attacks on Ukraine's capital, Kyiv. Officials say at least two were wounded on Saturday morning and there are fires at several locations. CNN crews on the ground heard some of the explosions that rattled the
 
 capital. Anna Coren is live from Kyiv with more. 
 
This sounds like a very coordinated and large number of drones. 
 
ANNA COREN, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: Yes, this is the biggest attack of drones on Kyiv in some time, a record number of Shahed drones, according to the merekev (ph) and the military. 
 
It started just after 2:30 am this morning and it's still ongoing. We understand there are at least three attack drones in the sky over the capital. We heard loud explosions as the anti-aircraft systems and the air defense systems were working overtime. 
 
Our producer, Dasha, heard drones flying past her house, you could hear these buzzing in the air. It's really off-putting obviously for the residents of Kyiv. Multiple buildings have been hit, a residential building and a kindergarten. 
 
As you mentioned, two people have been injured. These Shahed drones have been coming in multiple directions, targeting the city. As I say, this is the most intense drone attack on the capital in some time. There was nothing for almost two months, then the last couple of weeks, it started back again. 
 
And we know that the Russians have obviously been stockpiling. But what has happened in the last six hours certainly is the largest that people can remember for some time. 
 
As I say, Ukrainians have been expecting this; winter has arrived. It has been snowing the past couple of days. Freezing temperatures and obviously the plans of the Russians is to target Ukraine's energy infrastructure, just like last year. 
 
HOLMES: Yes, and drag things out. Anna, thanks so much, Anna Coren. 
 
South African prison authorities have granted parole to the Olympic sprinter Oscar Pistorius. He was convicted of murdering his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, in 2013. Steenkamp's mother says she's not convinced that he's been
 
 rehabilitated. She's worried for the safety of other women once he's released. That's expected to happen on January 5.
 <br>[01:25:00]
 
HOLMES: Pistorius was known as the Blade Runner for the carbon fiber prosthetic legs he wore as an Olympic sprinter.
 
I'm Michael Holmes. For our international viewers, "QUEST'S WORLD OF WONDER" is next. For those here in North America, I'll be back in a moment with more on day two of the truce between Israel and Hamas and another imminent release of hostages and prisoners.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) (MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
HOLMES: We are a little more than a hour into the second day of the temporary pause in the fighting between Israel and Hamas, which appears to be holding. Israel has a list of the next group of Israeli hostages expected to be released in the coming hours as part of the agreement. 
 <br>[01:30:00]
 
On Friday, 13 Israeli women and children held captive in Gaza were released by Hamas in exchange, 39 Palestinian prisoners, also women and children, were freed from Israeli jails.
 
Also on Friday, 10 Thai citizens and one Filipino were freed by Hamas as part of a separate hostage deal, all hostages released now receiving medical care. 
 
I'm joined now by Peter Layton, a visiting fellow at the Griffith Asia Institute, speaking with me from Brisbane in Australia. 
 
I want to ask you about, from a military aspect, how delicate are truces and exchanges like these?
 
It is a four-day process initially. 
 
What could scuttle it as days go by?
 
PETER LAYTON, VISITING FELLOW, GRIFFITH ASIA INSTITUTE: Probably many things. At the tactic level, we can expect a few breakages of the truce in terms of small arms fire and maybe some rockets. 
 
The Israelis also have been cautioned about flying their surveillance drones over the area and watching where the hostages are released from. 
 
So there are a few things. But I think both sides have a vested interest in maintaining the truce at least for four days. So I'm reasonably optimistic the fragile truce will, in the main, hold. 
 
HOLMES: Yes.
 
And if it does, what next?
 
Could it lead to a lasting peace or will it be a temporary respite followed by a return to war?
 
LAYTON: We've got a number of conflicting problems for the Israelis in particular but for Hamas also. 
 
The Israelis have said they'll maintain the truce as long as Hamas releases about 10 hostages each day. That would take them until the middle of next month. So there's a possibility this truce may be maintained for quite an extended period. 
 
However, when the truce ends -- or getting toward the end of the truce period -- the Israelis have the problem of they have decided the aim of the war is to destroy Hamas. So they can't let Hamas survive. 
 
So they need to find some government who will take over managing Gaza and stop security attacks on Israel to end the war. The Israelis say they don't want to occupy Gaza and the U.S. doesn't want them to, either. 
 
So at the moment, I can't see how the Israelis can get themselves out of the war because Hamas will be extremely difficult to destroy without virtually occupying the whole of Gaza. 
 
HOLMES: There was in Israeli politics -- including from the prime minister himself -- resistance to a ceasefire of any kind originally. They were saying, we cease, they fire. That was kind of the mantra. 
 
What regrouping opportunity does a multiday pause give Hamas?
 
And how does it hamper IDF momentum, which is always important in the field of battle?
 
LAYTON: From Hamas' point of view, it certainly gives them a chance to rest their forces. Their forces are just light infantry units. They will be extremely tired and worn out. So this will give them a chance to at least sleep. 
 
On the other hand, of course, the supplies for the 2 million Gazans are still running out. While Israel has allowed some resupply, it's relatively meager. So people are desperately short of food and water. 
 
On the Israeli side, it will give them a chance to rotate their forces, rotate the army units who have been engaged in the battle the last week or so and replace them with fresh units. 
 
And they'll also be able to replenish and restock all their forward supply depots and get the air force organized for the next phase, which could be just keeping the fairly extensive bombing campaign going. 
 
HOLMES: Obviously for Hamas, they knew when they launched this that they wanted to take hostages and take a lot of them. 
 
What is -- when it comes to the truce, what is in it for Hamas?
 
Are they getting what they want?
 
Especially if Israel goes back full force to fighting, as it promises it will, what is in it for Hamas at the moment to be releasing hostages?
 
LAYTON: I think the important thing, as far as they're concerned, is to buy themselves time. The longer the war goes on, the more international pressure will play on Israel and perhaps make them stop the war early. 
 <br>[01:35:00]
 
LAYTON: Hamas can only survive by making Israel tired of the war, if you like, or by external pressure on Israel. So I think the truce and maybe releasing 10 hostages a day drags everything out and gives Hamas breathing space, if you like. 
 
HOLMES: How difficult is it, in a military sense, for Israel to turn the war back on before the hostages are all released?
 
It's a difficult calculus. 
 
Will they have daily pauses until 250 hostages are released?
 
Or do they go back to the fighting?
 
I know there's internal debate in Israel about that, even at cabinet level. 
 
LAYTON: I think from a military standpoint, restarting the conflict is relatively straightforward. They've been fighting over a month, forces are in place and they do have supplies. 
 
But the politics would be remarkably difficult because now we seem to have a break in the conflict. Breaking this short-term peace will be very difficult. There are issues, as you hinted at there, as to what the Israelis would do next. 
 
They've hinted that they'll attack in the south and in the southern coastal regions and they're warning all civilians to move away from certain areas. But there's 2 million Gazans. 
 
And finding space large enough for them is extremely difficult. Winter is coming, there's a lot who are homeless and large tent cities are springing up now. There's a major humanitarian problem here and, again, the Israelis are caught. 
 
They can't end the war before they destroy Hamas. If they keep on with the war, the humanitarian crisis gets worse and worse. 
 
HOLMES: Ultimately, can Israel get the rest of the hostages out if they continue to say, once we get them out, we will wipe you out, Hamas?
 
Because then that takes away incentive for Hamas, doesn't it?
 
LAYTON: It does but I think Hamas are playing for time. At the end of the day, the Israelis could wipe Hamas out. But that would require forcible occupation of the entire Gaza Strip and literally going person to person. 
 
While that's possible, it is not practical and would be extremely difficult in the current international climate. 
 
HOLMES: Yes. Peter Layton, thanks so much. 
 
LAYTON: Thanks, Michael, cheers. 
 
HOLMES: CNN's Wolf Blitzer spoke to loved ones of some of the hostages left behind in Gaza. Still to come, how they keep their hope alive. We'll be right back.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:40:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
HOLMES: Emotions running high as some of the hostages released by Hamas are reunited with their families at hospitals in Israel. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HOLMES (voice-over): People cheering and clapping as three of five elderly women were transported by ambulances from a helicopter to the Wolfson Medical Center near Tel Aviv. 
 
Eight other hostages, four children, three mothers and a grandmother, were taken to a children's medical center near Tel Aviv. Officials say they're in good physical condition and will undergo a medical assessment. 
 
CNN's Clarissa Ward spoke to an emergency room nurse about why she went to the children's hospital to see the return of the hostages. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: She was actually working in the ER on October 7th and she said she wanted to come here to witness this moment. 
 
She called it, quote, "a drop of joy in a sea of sadness." 
 
And she said that while it's unlikely to change the course of events and while there is much more sadness to come -- and probably sadly much more bloodshed to come -- she wanted to be here to witness this moment and to hold on to that drop of joy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HOLMES: As some families celebrate the return of their loved ones held hostage by Hamas, many others are still wondering if the day will ever come. CNN's Wolf Blitzer spoke to a few of them. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MALKI SHEM TOV, OMER'S FATHER: We are in 49 days of nightmare.
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST (voice-over): As 13 Israeli hostages are released by Hamas, the loved ones of captives left behind are grappling with difficult emotions.
 
Malki Shem Tov's son, Omer, is among those still in Gaza and not expected to be included in this deal between Israel and Hamas to release some women and children. TOV: Today it's a special day and very happy day for some of the families. And, of course, we are very happy for them but we wish Omer was maybe 18 so he could be on the list.
 
BLITZER: Omer is 21 years old.
 
TOV: Omer is 21 years old, so he's not part of this releasing.
 
BLITZER: That pain shared by Meirav Leshem Gonen, who was told her daughter, Romi, would not be in this first group.
 
MEIRAV LESHEM GONEN, ROMI'S MOTHER: I'm very happy for the ones that will return. On the other hand, probably my daughter it's not today for sure but I'm not sure for the next day but it's a very harsh game.
 <br>[01:45:00]
 
BLITZER: Now she waits for tomorrow's expected release for hostages and the next days and the next.
 
GONEN: Imagine she will be, she will not. She will be, she will not. It's impossible. It's impossible to live like that from day to day.
 
She's the glue. She's light, she's in the middle. She's considered the most beautiful kid in the family. And we miss her because her energy is missing in the family.
 
MORAN TAYAR, RELATIVE OF HOSTAGES: They met about 20 years ago.
 
BLITZER: Moran Tayar knows the harsh reality that his nephew, Yagev, may remain hostage even if his wife, Rimon, is eventually freed.
 
TAYAR: It's very difficult to hear probably they won't be in that place, so we still have hope at least with Rimon but we are not sure. It's really confusing and really frustrating and painful for us.
 
BLITZER: The uncertainty hangs over these families.
 
GONEN: What are the steps, what do we meet them and this is something I don't know yet.
 
TOV: It's a long, long 50 days.
 
BLITZER: But these families still hold out hope advocating for more release.
 
TAYAR: There is still a chance and obligation of all the international community and the Israeli government to bring them back home. If not this time, it should be very, very close to this time.
 
BLITZER: And imagining the day they are the ones reunited with their loved ones.
 
GONEN: I feel she's -- she's strong and she's alive. I think the first thing that I will tell her is I love you. I think she will just -- you know, she will run to me because I know our connection is so strong and I know she will come and just tell me, mother, just hug me.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Thanks to Wolf Blitzer for that report. 
 
Now a U.S. official says American forces in Iraq and Syria were attacked four separate times on Thanksgiving. CNN's Alex Marquardt with the details on that. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: The number of attacks on U.S. and coalition forces in Iraq and Syria has now shot past 70 in just the past few weeks. Four attacks alone on Thanksgiving Day. 
 
On Thursday, according to the Pentagon, rockets and drones were used to try to strike two bases in Iraq and two sites in Syria. There was no damage reported nor were there casualties, according to the Pentagon but the growing attacks highlight the concerns about a wider conflict that could draw in U.S. troops.
 
The U.S. has retaliated and tried to send a message of deterrence. The Pentagon says, including hitting two locations in Iraq earlier this week, which belonged to the Iran-backed Kata'ib Hezbollah, following an earlier attack by the group with close range ballistic missiles.
 
In all, the U.S. has now carried out four sets of airstrikes for these dozens of strikes against U.S. and coalition forces. The U.S. strikes included three in Syria against facilities tied to Iran's Revolutionary Guard and Iran-backed proxy groups. 
 
The Pentagon argues that the deterrence is working because the conflict has not yet spread more widely in the Middle East -- Alex Marquardt, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
Now a source telling CNN former police officer Derek Chauvin was assaulted in a federal prison. He was, of course, convicted in the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis in 2020 and is serving time at the federal correction institute in Tucson, Arizona. 
 
Chauvin is in stable condition according to the source. His attorney telling CNN they're working on getting confirmation of exactly what happened. The chief of police in Minneapolis says, quote, "Violence is barbaric and tragic and should never be cause for celebration." 
 
Still to come, Black Friday has long been one of the top shopping days in the year in the U.S. But it's not what it used to be. That report after the break.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) [01:50:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
HOLMES: Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving, has long been one of the biggest shopping days of the year in the U.S. but it might be losing its retail luster. Ivan Rodriguez takes a closer look.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
IVAN RODRIGUEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Black Friday historically marks the start of the holiday shopping rush and when retailers claim they have the best deals available. But this year, there seems to have been a different tactic from many retailers which could result in a slower than usual shopping day.
 
RODRIGUEZ (voice-over): For many shoppers on Black Friday, the day begins bright and early.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: For me, it's about tradition and family. I've got my daughter and my niece here with me. We let -- we get -- we have my niece sleep over. We come to the mall. We're here by 6:00 am We shop till we drop and then we head home this afternoon.
 
RODRIGUEZ (voice-over): This year, retailers are departing from only offering their claim best deals the day after Thanksgiving. By ruling out Black Friday like sales weeks in advance, meaning long lines like these might not be a common sight across department stores this Black Friday. 
 
But it doesn't mean consumers won't be shopping at all throughout the weekend, which could be good news for small businesses. 
 
ALLISON ASH, OWNER, THE WRAPPER: I just feel really lucky and blessed that we've had people who've been loyal to us.
 
RODRIGUEZ (voice-over): This year, about 60 percent of holiday shoppers are likely to choose small business Saturday for holiday shopping, which is slightly higher than the 56 percent of shoppers likely to shop on Black Friday, according to a report by Bankrate. Some analysts say that social media is now the place where some are finding inspiration.
 
KRISTINE MCGRATH, EDITOR, RETAILMENOT: The toy space as well has a lot of influencers, parenting influencers. Showing off what they're getting their kids and really influencing what those top toys of the year that are likely going to sell out.
 
RODRIGUEZ (voice-over): In recent years, the traditional Black Friday has undergone a noticeable evolution.
 <br>[01:55:00]
 
RODRIGUEZ: Especially for those no longer interested in doorbuster promotions. The November through December holiday shopping season accounts for about 20 percent of retailers sales for a full year. The National Retail Federation forecast holiday sales this year to
 
 increase 4 percent, that's slower than the 5.4 percent increase in 2022 -- In Atlanta, I'm Ivan Rodriguez.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HOLMES: Scientists say the world's biggest iceberg is on the move after three decades on the sea floor in Antarctica. It's more than twice the size of London, England; nearly 4,000 square kilometers or more than 1,500 square miles. 
 
The huge chunk of original ice broke in 1986 and fell to the sea floor almost immediately. Scientists tell CNN it's probably shrunk enough in size to have loosened its grip from the sea floor and has now started moving. 
 
With ocean currents, the iceberg is expected to be moving about 5 kilometers or 3 miles a day. 
 
I'm Michael Holmes. Thanks for spending part of your day with me. My friend, Laila Harrak, will have more after a quick break.