Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Race To Win The Gavel; Israel-Hamas War; Incredible Footage Of A World War II Submarine Discovered Deep Below; Hybrid Aircraft And A Pizza Mobile. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired October 20, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. It is Friday, October 20th, Friday. Remember what`s within influences what happens without, so let`s 
 
 get our minds right, and make this date great. 
 
I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10, where we tell you the what, letting you decide what to think. We start today with an overview of the headlines 
 
 around the world. First, we start here in the U.S. The House of Representatives is still looking for a new leader or Speaker of the House. 
 
 Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio was potentially going to be named speaker this past week, but after two rounds of voting Jordan failed to secure the 
 
 necessary number of votes in the House to win the gavel. 
 
The House has been without a speaker now for more than two weeks after former speaker of the House Representative, Kevin McCarthy was historically 
 
 voted out. This means the House of Representatives remains effectively frozen, unable to take action on some very serious issues like funding for 
 
 Ukraine and its ongoing war with Russia and decisions that need to be made in regard to the war between Israel and Hamas. 
 
Also, Congress faces a government funding dead deadline in November. There has been, however, in interim Speaker of the House, Patrick McHenry, but 
 
 his powers are very limited. Some Republicans are discussing though a possible resolution where his powers could expand until a new speaker is 
 
 elected so that some of the major issues I just mentioned can be voted on.
 
Now for an update on Israel`s war with Hamas, the Islamist group classified as a terrorist organization by the United States, the European Union, and 
 
 some others, which attacked Israel nearly two weeks ago, Israel has agreed to allow first aid and other resources to enter Gaza, which is controlled 
 
 by Hamas through Egypt, which neighbors Gaza to the west. The hope is that first aid, food, and water can reach the innocence civilians who are 
 
 dealing with critically low levels of supplies. The absence of crucial aid has sparked protests around the world. 
 
The World Health Organization says conditions are "spiraling out of control" for millions that have been effectively trapped in Gaza as Israel 
 
 controls the borders. 
 
Meanwhile, president Joe Biden was scheduled to deliver an Oval Office addressed last night to make the case for sustaining wartime aid, to both 
 
 Israel and Ukraine as public opinion regarding U.S. assistance has been mixed. We`ll continue to keep you updated as these stories unfold right 
 
 here on CNN 10.
 
Ten second trivia. 
 
In what year did World War II end? 
 
1914, 1918, 1939 or 1945?
 
On September 2nd, 1945. Japan signed the formal surrender officially ending World War II.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is believed to be the HMS Thistle, a sunken World War II British submarine. The wreckage was discovered in the spring. 
 
 Scientists found the wreck at a depth of more than 500 feet outside the Norwegian county of Rogaland. HMS Thistle last voyage was in 1940, when it 
 
 was sunk by a German submarine leaving all 53 crew members dead. It was discovered during a MAREANO Program Research Cruise examining the seabed.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE:  Next up, a helium filled floating mode of transportation. Yes, helium, just like those birthday balloons. Helium isn`t flammable like 
 
 hydrogen filled glimpses of the past and a company called hybrid air vehicle says they`re new yet old school looking airship is perfect for 
 
 shorter regional journeys that can float about a hundred passengers at a time through the air at about 80 miles per hour. And they say it`s much 
 
 better for the environment than conventional planes. But does it make sense? And is it safe? Let`s learn more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TOM GRUNDY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, HYBRID AIR VEHICLES:  It`s a fast ship. It`s a high-speed rail of the sky lying at about 80 miles an hour.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  U.K.-based company hybrid air vehicles believes it has a solution for climate conscious travelers of the future. Even if it might 
 
 look like something from the past.
 
MIKE DURHAM, CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER, HYBRID AIR VEHICLES:  It`s got a lot of heritage back into airships. There`s no doubt about that. It sort of 
 
 looks like one from some angles. So we`ve got a little bit of public hearts and minds to win over, but the reality is three quarters of it is standard 
 
 aviation technology. It just comes in a slightly strange shape wrapper.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Airlander 10 is designed for short tool and regional journeys. It`s filled with helium, which is more expensive, scares (ph) and 
 
 less buoyant than hydrogen, but is also safer as it`s not flammable.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It`s going to be about 300 feet long, longer than a 747, lift hundred passengers.
 
GRUNDY:  Getting on board, you are going into a spacious cabin. There`s lots of light coming in. It`s quiet. You can open the windows. You can get 
 
 up and move around the cabin. Every seat`s accessible to the aisle, accessible to wheelchairs and people have more limited mobility.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  HAV Also claims the carbon emissions would be 90% lower than the equivalent journey on a conventional aircraft.
 
GRUNDY:  Some of the early customers that have come to us have said, well, what about putting 16 people on board and taking them on overnight cruises 
 
 to get people, to pass the world that are really hard to get to it. And it`s done in a way that minimizes the impact on the environment you`re 
 
 going through. It`s the very first Airlander aircraft coming off the production line. We`ll be going off to do those sort of jobs in place like 
 
 the Arctic or on Safari. 
 
It doesn`t restrict itself to operating from runways. All it needs is a relatively flat space and that space can be sand. It can be grass. It can 
 
 be water. So we can create new connections for people, getting them closer to where they want to get to.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Despite some previous setbacks, HAV states is the only company in the world to have successfully flown this type of aircraft, and 
 
 is working towards commercial production of the Airlander 10.
 
GRUNDY:  Our plan is to be delivering at least 24 of these aircraft per year into the market from later this decade.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  For today`s story, getting a 10 out of 10, pizza man, which has its roots, dating back a thousands of years, right? Drawing inspiration from 
 
 top flat breads eaten by the ancient Egyptians, Greeks and Romans, but the modern pizza, as we know it today with tomato sauce and cheese, well that 
 
 comes from Naples in the 18th century. 
 
Now get ready for a story that`s as cheesy and saucey as your favorite pie. We`ve got the low down on a domino pizza delivery vehicle. You just can`t 
 
 miss. The Tritan A2 created in the eighties looks like it`s from outer space and it`s for sale.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  This is Domino`s 1985 Tritan A2 two pizza delivery car. And yes, it`s up for auction. Only 10 of these rocket ship like cars were 
 
 ever made in the 1980s. And just a few survived today. The Tritan A2 was originally commissioned by the Founder of Domino`s pizza. It had customized 
 
 warming ovens in the rear to deliver pizzas around Ann Arbor, Michigan, where Domino`s headquartered. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Watch out SWAT 106.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: At the time, futuristic cars and space motifs where all the rage and pop culture. This Tritan for instance was built in 1985. The 
 
 same year that the blockbuster hit back to the future was released. 
 
And in another blast to the past, it was Domino`s pizza that campaign staffers reached for when president Joe Biden, then a Senator announced his 
 
 withdrawal from the 1988 presidential election.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  -- withdrawal with Senator Biden will announce that he is quitting the campaign.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  The Tritan A2 boast 80 miles per gallon fuel efficiency, according to Bonhams auction house, which sold a similar 
 
 Domino`s car in 2019 for nearly $45,000. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Domino`s pizza delivers.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Even the car`s current owner admits, though, it`s pretty terrible to drive and probably wasn`t that great at delivering 
 
 pizza, but it does look awfully cool.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  I had a pizza joke I wanted to tell you, but I won`t. It`s too cheesy. Our special shout out today goes to Friendship Heritage Middle 
 
 School, Lubbock, Texas. We see you. Thank you to all of you who have learned and laughed with us this week. And before we send you out, we`re 
 
 going to take a look back at the memorable moments we`ve shared. 
 
Remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you.
 
END