Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Israel Strikes Military Targets In Syria After Rocket Fire; GOP-Led TN House Expels Two Black Dems Over Gun Reform Protest; Tiger Woods Withdraws With Food Injury After Making 23rd Straight Cut; Following Fentanyl's Path For China To The U.S. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired April 09, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:25] 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST: Hello, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me on this Eastern Sunday from New York.
 
I'm Fredricka Whitfield.
 
And we begin with escalating tensions in the Middle East Israel says it has carried out air strikes in Syrian territory. Israel's defense forces releasing video it says shows strikes on a Syrian military compound, radar systems and artillery posts. 
 
The strikes were launched after Israel says rockets were fired from Syria toward the Golan Heights. 
 
And in the West Bank today, a funeral was held for two British-Israeli sisters who were killed in an attack on Friday. 
 
Days of violence erupted following an Israeli police raid on the Al Aqsa Mosque compound in Jerusalem last week. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen is in Jerusalem. Scott McLean is in Beirut, Lebanon. Fred, let me begin with you. What is the latest.
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi there, Fredricka. Well certainly, it is still quite concerning here on the ground. I would say it's still a very tense and a very volatile situation as well. 
 
And of course, one of the main reasons for that is what you were just mentioning is those rocket attacks that the Israelis say were launched from Syrian territory early this morning. 
 
That, of course, is a pretty big deal since Israeli territory was shot at or fired -- rockets fired from Lebanon earlier and then also from Gaza, now from Syrian territory as well. The Israelis are saying that at least one of those rockets landed. One was intercepted. They say six rockets were fired in total. 
 
Now the Israelis then launched those airstrikes. We're seeing one of them right there on our screen right now. Saying that they took out some compounds from the Syrian military is quite interesting because it's not clear whether or not this had anything to do with the Syrian military.
 
However the Israelis are saying that they hold the Syrian state and, of course, the Syrian military as well accountable for any sort of attacks that happened onto Israeli territory or Israeli-held territory and then will retaliate accordingly. 
 
At the same time, the strategic affairs minister of Israel he came out here on CNN earlier today, and he warned what he called the enemies of Israel to not underestimate the unity of this country. Despite the fact that of course we know there are political divisions here. 
 
Let's listen in. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RON DERMER, ISRAELI MINISTER OF STRATEGIC AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC DIPLOMACY: I think that Israel's internal divisions have been misinterpreted. This is why I caught -- talked about Iran -- misinterpreted by our enemies, and maybe they think this is a time to attack Israel. 
 
Believe me, Israel will stay united and will defend itself against that aggression. I have no doubt that we will stand together and confront anyone who tries to endanger our country and endanger our civilians. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PLEITGEN: At the same time, we saw those pictures earlier of the funeral for those two sisters who were shot and their car crashed yesterday. That obviously a terrible event that happened.
 
At the same time though, on a positive note, it was fairly quiet here in Jerusalem. Jewish prayers near the Temple Mount earlier today, they happened without any sort of incident. Also things fairly quiet at the Al Aqsa Mosque as well. 
 
So there is the chance that things might be calming down somewhat. However, still as the Israeli government says and certainly security forces will say as well, situation is still fairly tense, and obviously everyone is still very much looking out to see whether or not or anything bad could happen in the next coming days, next coming hours, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. On the edge of their seats. 
 
All right. Fred Pleitgen, thanks so much.
 
Scott to you. A meeting took place between leaders of Hezbollah and some Palestinian militant groups. So what can you tell us resulted from that? 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So Fredricka, Israel has indicated that it's not going to strike Lebanese territory unless there is rocket fire coming from here again in its direction. 
 
So the question is, will there be? As you mentioned, a meeting happened between the leadership of Hezbollah, the Lebanese militant and political group in this country, which to be clear has not been blamed for the rocket fire from Lebanon, but they met with these Palestinian militant groups to discuss, among other things, the readiness of the resistance axis, resistance axis to confront what's happening in Jerusalem. 
 
At this point, there's no indication that there's going to be another attack, but in the meantime, it is the job of the Lebanese military now to make sure that there isn't. And as we found out that is no easy task. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCLEAN: About an hour south of Beirut, the yellow flags of Israel's sworn enemy, the Lebanese militant and political group Hezbollah is the first sign that the Jewish state doesn't have many friends here. 
 <br>[14:04:48]
 
MCLEAN: After the police raid on the Al Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem outrage came in the form of almost three dozen rockets fired across the border from southern Lebanon where Palestinian refugee camps have for decades sheltered tens of thousands of displaced people.
 
On Friday, Israel responded targeting the weapons and the Palestinian militant groups they say launched them. 
 
This is an irrigation channel running through this banana field. This used to be a bridge over top of it, leading to a hotel by the sea. It obviously took a direct hit. 
 
Locals say the force was so intense that it shook their homes. They also insist that this would not have been a good place to store weapons. 
 
The aftermath attracted a crowd of local residents and farmhands among them Khalil Al Rajhi (ph), who makes no apologies for the rockets fired at Israel.
 
"This is a response," he says. "This, at the very least, is a message that we as the Lebanese people stand for resistance."
 
"Do you want peace with Israel," I asked him.
 
"Of course not," he says.
 
Just down the road, though it is a much different story. Abdul Khaled Abdul Sattar (ph), a Syrian refugee shows us the shrapnel he's collected from the blast that left a hole in the roof of his farmhouse. His kids were sleeping here at the time. 
 
"Me and my wife and young kids," he says. "I couldn't calm them down. We left Syria to flee the shelling. And now this." He walked us through the orange grove, passed more and more disturbed earth.
 
The house that was hit by shrapnel is about 200 yards away from here, it seems far until you see the size of the crater. 
 
Abdul Sattar says there were no weapons here. Incredibly the only living casualties were the orange trees, some ripped apart at the trunk.
 
Hezbollah has not claimed responsibility for any of the rockets fired from Lebanon, neither has any Palestinian armed group. The Lebanese army vowed to stop the attacks and located and dismantled several rocket launchers and rockets hidden amongst the hillsides and terrorist orchards. 
 
On Saturday, they found one more though no sign a new attack was on the way. At least for now.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCLEAN: Now we are expecting to hear more from Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah on Friday, the same day that protests in solidarity with Palestinians are planned here in Lebanon. 
 
Hezbollah has said precious little about the tit for tat attacks across the border, but the group has such influence in this country that whatever Nasrallah does say on Friday, may well set the tone for whatever might happen next, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Incredible point of view. Thank you so much, Scott McLean and Fred Pleitgen. 
 
All right, turning now to the Vatican. In his Easter blessing this morning, Pope Francis acknowledged war and conflict around the world and prayed for the people of Ukraine. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POPE FRANCIS, ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH (through translator): Help the beloved Ukrainian people on their journey towards peace and shed the light of Easter upon the people of Russia. Comfort the wounded and all those who have lost their loved ones because of the war. And grant that prisoners may return safe and sound to their families. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: The Vatican says more than 100,000 people were in and around St. Peter's Square for today's blessing. 
 
CNN's Vatican correspondent Delia Gallagher, joining us now from Rome.
 
Delia, Pope Francis talked about the light of Easter. Was that a theme for him today? 
 
DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Well absolutely, of course, because Easter celebrates the resurrection and the light of Jesus, which is what the Pope is all about spreading that message. And he spoke about people bringing the light to countries in conflict. 
 
In addition to mentioning Ukraine Fredricka, the Pope said he wanted to express his deep concern for the attacks in recent days in Jerusalem, and he called for renewed dialogue between Israelis and Palestinians. He mentioned Syria, he mentioned Lebanon, he mentioned the Rohingya in Myanmar. Many countries in Africa, including the Democratic Republic of Congo and South Sudan, two countries that he just visited in January.
 
We heard that the Pope's voice is stronger. It's back, so that suggests that he has managed to recuperate from the bronchitis. He just got out of hospital last Saturday. So that's important.
 
But still, he has his mobility issues, was brought in in a wheelchair. He can't stand behind the altar for long periods of time which is why he doesn't say the mass. 
 
He likes to joke that you know you don't need two legs to be pope, just one head, so I don't think it's going to slow him down any. But certainly it was a lovely Easter morning here in Rome with as you said 100,000 people there to listen to the Pope, Fredricka. 
 <br>[14:09:59]
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. His humor is on display in so many unique ways all the time. 
 
Delia Gallagher in Rome, thanks so much. 
 
All right. President Biden is celebrating this Easter Sunday with a message about the power of faith, hope and love.
 
In a statement he wrote, "During Lent, and especially on Good Friday, we held in our hearts all those who are suffering from threats of violence and persecution, grief and isolation and illness, poverty and other hardships. Today we hold close the Easter message that nothing, not even death, can match the power of faith, hope and love."
 
The president is spending the holiday at Camp David and will return to Washington later on this afternoon. And the annual White House Easter egg roll, well it's set to take place tomorrow. 
 
Still ahead, the fate of the expelled Tennessee Democratic lawmakers is in limbo right now after an ousting by Republicans, which is being called vindictive and racially-motivated. 
 
Martin Luther King III joining me to discuss next.
 
Plus Tiger Woods is out at the Masters. He withdrew due to an injury. We'll take you there live for the latest straight ahead. 
 <br>[14:11:09]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) WHITFIELD: A third juvenile suspect sought in connection with the recent shooting deaths of three teenagers in Central Florida is now in police custody. The Marion County sheriff's office says they captured 16 year old Taj Bruton on Saturday. They say the capture happened in Groveland, Florida about 65 miles south of Marion County, but no other details were given.
 
Two other juveniles, one as young as 12, were arrested and charged with first degree murder in the shooting deaths of the three teens. Police say both the suspects and the victims were affiliated with gangs. 
 
And last hour in Memphis, we heard from Justin Pearson, one of the two expelled Tennessee House Democrats as he gave a sermon at a church in his home district of Memphis. 
 
And as he delivered his Easter address, he thanked the community and congregation for its support and drew parallels with what happened this week at the state capitol and 55 years ago in Memphis. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JUSTIN PEARSON (D), OUSTED TENNESSEE STATE HOUSE REPRESENTATIVE: Because we did that the Republican-led general assembly with the support of folks even in this district like Mark White from our own community thought it better to get rid of our Democratic representation in District 86 than to actually solve the problem.
 
Reverend Dr. Martin King Jr. was killed by gun violence. And I tell you what, his words from what he spoke just days before he was assassinated, are still true. The movement lives or dies in Memphis.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: CNN correspondent Isabel Rosales joining me live from Nashville. Isabel, what's in store for these lawmakers for the week ahead? 
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Fred, tomorrow is a very important day for former representative, Justin Jones. And that is because the Metropolitan Council here in Nashville will be holding a special meeting. 
 
The goal for these council members is to reappoint Jones back to his seat and send him to the state capitol. 
 
Now there's actually going to be three voting events happening. First to nominate him. Then they are going to have to vote to suspend a rule within the council that prohibits nomination and appointment of somebody within the same meeting. If they succeed in suspending that rule, then they can nominate him with a supermajority. That's 27 council members approving to nominate him. 
 
Now, if they fail to suspend that rule. This is all going to be drawn out a lot longer. Four weeks, they will have to wait four weeks in order to nominate him. Now when it comes to former representative Justin Pearson, his district over Memphis, Shelby County we're told by the chairman of the Shelby County Board of Commissioners that they will not address Pearson's individual situation until the regularly scheduled meeting happening on Wednesday. 
 
It's not clear when or if they're going to schedule a special meeting to talk about Pearson's individual situation.
 
Now, as you mentioned Fred, we did hear him deliver a sermon at the Church of the River church on this Eastern Sunday. Here's what he had to say about echoes to his own personal story, what's happening to him.
 
Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JUSTIN PEARSON (D), OUSTED TENNESSEE STATE HOUSE REPRESENTATIVE: Resurrection is (INAUDIBLE) promised. Let them beat you. Let them lecture. Let them expel. Let them kick out. Let them do what they must promise.
 
There's a promise that Sunday's resurrection is on the way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: And Hendrell Remus, the chairman of the Tennessee Democratic Party, he says that threats have been made against Memphis and Shelby County, these are Pearson's districts, against the loss of funding should they reinstate Pearson. 
 
They are in the process, Memphis of negotiating with the state, multiple key projects, and the threats over the state may not fund them, according to Remus, he's calling this political retribution. We have reached out to the Shelby County Commission for a comment on this. 
 
Meanwhile I have spoken to a city council member here in Nashville. He has not heard of any threats, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Isabel Rosales, thank you so much in Nashville. 
 
I want to bring in now Martin Luther King III now for his perspective. He is the chairman for the Drum Major Institute, a global human rights leader, and the son of Dr. Reverend Martin Luther King Jr.
 <br>[14:19:47]
 
WHITFIELD: So good to see you, Mr. King. I mean, your impressions now of Justin Pearson. You just heard him from the pulpit invoking the name of your dad and saying the movement lives or dies in Memphis -- the place, the city where your dad was assassinated. What are your impressions?
 
MARTIN LUTHER KING III, CHAIRMAN, DRUM MAJOR INSTITUTE: Well, it's certainly very sad. Thank you for the opportunity. Today is very sad, though 55 years after dad's assassination in Memphis that two legislators, three actually, were saying, let's bring legislation to the floor to be voted up or down. 
 
And the Republican legislature chose to decide that they were going to abolish or actually expel members. We have to ask ourselves where are we in relationship to protecting, preserving and expanding democracy? Is it really democratic that because individuals espouse a different position that their actual constituency espouses that they should be put out of the body. 
 
I believe first of all, the Republican legislature went far -- way too far. They have elevated the issue. And people around the country and perhaps people in the state of Tennessee most importantly, because this is about Tennessee, but it also is about national gun, responsible gun legislation. 
 
We should be in a different place. As I said 55, years ago, my father was killed by an assassin. And today we are looking at people who are trying to create a better community for children. 
 
It's a sad time. 
 
WHITFIELD: It is sad. I mean, 55 years later, and it's gun violence that is still at the root.
 
So Mr. King, you know that you use the word elevated. I mean, the profile of these so called, you know, the Tennessee 3 has been elevated.
 
And so many people from Congresswoman Barbara Lee, you know, who remembers Justin Jones as her intern to constituents of Justin Pearson say that they you know, have been doing the work, pushing to give voice to the silent and disenfranchised for a very long time. And they are just 27 and 28. 
 
Are they in your view representative of a sort of resurrected student movement? They're not students, you know, but they are young adults. The same kind of student movement of your father, Reverend Andy Young, the late John Lewis, Julian Bond. 
 
KING III: Well, absolutely they are representative in that same tradition in my judgment. Dad was 27 when he began and was chosen to lead the Montgomery bus boycott.
 
And so yes, absolutely in that same tradition. And again, they are not representing just positions themselves, although I'm sure strongly they believe these positions, but they're representing their constituents and the constituents are black and white and Native American, Hispanic, Latino, Asian. They're Americans from all walks of life.
 
The fact of the matter is most Americans want to see responsible gun legislation. And yet for some reason in our nation, the Republican body seems to reject this wholeheartedly. And the answer -- the only answer is more guns. Well the fact of the
 
 matter is darkness will never, as dad said, put out darkness only light can do that. 
 
Violence will never put out violence. We continue a perpetual cycle of violence. Only love and nonviolence can do that. 
 
And that is what these representatives are advocating for I believe.
 
WHITFIELD: Justin Jones, he attended Fisk University. He talks of being inspired by and following the footsteps of your dad and the late John Lewis. You know how enamored perhaps hopeful are you about these young men stirring up what John Lewis would have called "good trouble". 
 
KING III: Well I am not just very excited about what is being seen because I think there's a movement that has been coming afloat for a long time. Maybe starting 10-12 years ago with Black Lives Matter. And then maybe sort of culminating after the tragic death of George Floyd. 
 
But you also had students in Parkland high school students at Douglas Stone High School who were protesting and got some legislation passed in the house. You also had the women's movement. All of these movements are still emerging and young, even younger people are getting engaged. Not just students at the high school level and not just students at the collegiate level, but it is very exciting on the one hand.
 
However, it's very tragic that we still get this kind of resistance because all people are trying to do is to make our nation better for all of God's children.
 
And I think we need to open our minds and look at it a little differently than the way we are now. And the way we're looking at it now is out of fear. When you have fear then you embrace more and more guns and ultimately you embrace more and more violence. 
 
As I said once again, violence cannot stop out violence. Only love and nonviolence can do that.
 <br>[14:24:53]
 
KING III: We've got to create that climate in our nation and in our communities and all over our nation, ultimately to get legislation that helps propel us into the future for generations yet unborn.
 
WHITFIELD: They want their jobs back. Do you think they'll get them? 
 
KING III: I am hopeful. I feel that certainly it feels as if the lead -- that both elected bodies, all of the elected bodies that the time is now and it is set. And I do believe that they will be reinstated by the elected bodies from Memphis and Nashville. 
 
WHITFIELD: Martin Luther King III, Happy Easter. Thank you so much. 
 
KING III: Thank you. Same to you. WHITFIELD: Coming up, we'll go live to the Masters, where the quest
 
 for the coveted green jacket is underway. And this morning, Tiger Woods withdrew from the tournament. All the latest next. 
 <br>[14:25:45]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:30:15]
 
WHITFIELD: Hard to believe we're already here at the final round of the Masters golf tournament, and it's underway right now. 
 
But after making the cut for a second tying 23rd consecutive time on Saturday, sentimental favorite Tiger Woods had to drop out because of an injury. 
 
CNN's Don Riddell is live for us at Augusta. 
 
Don, no Tiger Woods on Sunday at the masters, as a troubling thing. But where do things stand? 
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CORRESPONDENT: Well, no Tiger woods, and to be honest, he was never going to be in contention anyway, Fred, he was really, really struggling. Remember the conditions here 24 hours ago were very different. They were absolutely brutal and he looked absolutely miserable. 
 
Then when we all woke up this morning, we learned the news that he had withdrawn from this tournament for the first time ever. It's a tournament he loves. He's played in it 25 times. He's won it five times, and it's really now becoming apparent that he is no longer competitive force. 
 
He only played three Majors last year. He missed the cut in one. He withdrew after the third round in the other. So Tiger Woods now I would say facing an uncertain future in this sport. 
 
As for the tournament, as it continues, the leading pair will be teeing off literally any minute now. The American player Brooks Koepka is currently at the top of the leader board. He's to clear of Jon Rahm. Brooks Koepka is a four time major champion. He's never lost a major when he's had a 54-hole lead. 
 
But he is one of these rebel breakaway live golfers and the idea that he could win the Masters is making some people a little bit anxious. The head of that live tour, Greg Norman, has said that if one of their players wins, the other live players will storm the 18th green, which is why I think a lot of the establishment will be rooting. For the guy who is currently in second place in the world number three from Spain, Jon Rahm. 
 
He's a red hot player at the moment. He's won five times in the last five months or five times since October, but I think we're expecting a heavyweight clash from these two. I think it should be a very entertaining afternoon. WHITFIELD: Oh, wow, and what a difference. I mean, it is gorgeous
 
 behind you. I know it's chilly, but those beautiful skies, whoo, that's the way it's supposed to look.
 
And I'm happy for Koepka and Rahm, but oh, my gosh, I can feel the pain. Can't we all you can feel the pain of Tiger Woods, just seeing him move. It's so sad. 
 
All right. Don Riddell, thanks so much. 
 
All right. Coming up, Texas Governor Abbott is planning to pardon a convicted murderer. Those details, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:36:48]
 
WHITFIELD: There's a new controversy in Texas as Governor Greg Abbott vows to pardon a convicted murderer. Daniel Perry was convicted last week for a deadly shooting at a Black Lives Matter in Austin back in 2020. A protester Garrett Foster was killed. 
 
CNN's Camila Bernal is following the latest for us. 
 
Camila, Perry hasn't even been sentenced yet. So, why is the governor so quick to issue a pardon? 
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Fred. 
 
Well, Governor Greg Abbott points to self defense to the standard ground laws in Texas. But it is important to go back to the beginning of all of this. You mentioned this black lives matter protests in Austin, Texas, in 2020, and Daniel Perry was working as a rideshare driver when he encountered these protesters. Specifically, you mentioned Garrett Foster. He was 28 years old at the time. That's him that you're seeing right now on the video, and he was carrying an AK- 47.
 
Now, Perry's defense attorney says that when these two men encountered each other, Foster raised his AK-47, the defense attorney, says that Perry essentially felt his life was in jeopardy, and that's why he took the handgun that was in his car and shot and killed Foster. 
 
Now, the district attorney in Travis County, saying that this was not self defense, saying that this was murder and their witnesses that say that this was intentional. Of course, the defense saying this was self defense, but the jury here agreed with the district attorney. He was convicted of murder on Friday. 
 
Then, a day later, just yesterday, Governor Greg Abbott taking to Twitter to say that he is already working on Daniel Perry's pardoned. He specifically said that he has working quickly, trying to expedite this process so that he can pardon Daniel Perry. 
 
Of course, this is not something that everyone agrees with. This is a very difficult issue along party lines because different parties, of course, it just become so political because of what is it the issue here it is a Black Lives Matter. It is the gun issues. So, of course, a lot of controversy when it comes to this case, Fred.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Camila Bernal, thanks so much. 
 
All right. Next, it's a deadly issue plaguing this country every single day. So how did China become an integral player in America's fentanyl crisis? Our David Culver does some digging to find out. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:43:46]
 
WHITFIELD: As U.S. drug overdose deaths hover near record levels, Narcan will become available on store shelves for the first time. The FDA approved the opioid overdose treatment for over the counter use just over a week ago, and it comes as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says more than 100,000 Americans died from drug overdoses in 2021. And many of those deaths are blamed on illicit versions of the opioid fentanyl. 
 
CNN's David Culver looks at how chemicals used to make the synthetic drug are moved from China through Mexico and into the streets of the U.S.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The U.S.'s largest port of entry --  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Where we're going today?
 
CULVER: -- also its busiest. 
 
Each day, more than 100,000 people entered the U.S. through the San Ysidro Crossing, about 800 Customs and Border Protection officers tasked with keeping the bad from seeping through this part of the border.
 
MARIZA MARIN, CBP SAN YSIDRO PORT DIRECTOR: Very difficult and complex job for them to -- in a matter of moments and sometimes seconds identify whether someone presents a threat coming into the station or not. 
 
CULVER: Among the deadliest threats, illicit fentanyl.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: So we want to feel the door to make sure doesn't feel heavy, and there's nothing in there. 
 <br>[14:45:00]
 
CULVER: The CBP tells us that more than half of all the fentanyl found at the U.S. borders comes from ports here in San Diego. Officials say this is ground zero for illicit fentanyl smuggling. 
 
MARIN: We will probably double what we saw last year within the next month or two. 
 
CULVER: That's double the amount of fentanyl seized in all of 2022 and just the first four months of this year. 
 
But before the fentanyl even reaches the U.S. border, you need to know where it's coming from. That we start not over there in Mexico, but in China.
 
Specifically Shijiazhuang, China, a city some 200 miles south of Beijing, known for manufacturing pharmaceutical drugs and once a major hub for fentanyl production. In May 2019, facing mounting U.S. pressure, China took a major step and banned the production and sale of all known forms of fentanyl, including any variants of the drug. 
 
MATT DONAHUE, DEA CHIEF OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS, 2019-2022: That was a big step. That stopped fentanyl, fentanyl the powder coming in from China directly to the United States. 
 
CULVER: Matt Donahue worked for the DEA for more than three decades, retiring last year as its chief of foreign operations.
 
While he says finished fentanyl is no longer flowing out of China, precursor chemicals, the ingredients to make fentanyl, are.
 
DONAHUE: If you can get to the precursor chemicals, you're going to have less fentanyl. You have less fentanyl. You have less over those deaths.
 
CULVER: Using that same approach, in recent years, the U.S. levied new sanctions against a handful of Chinese chemical manufacturers to combat the global illicit drug trade. 
 
We looked into one of them. Hebei Atun Trading Company accused of being involved in fentanyl precursor chemical sales. Public records show the company was dissolved in 2021. But our investigation found the same email address, once listed for Hebei Atun now linked to this Chinese company. Shanxi NEPU, registered just days after Hebei Atun began to shut down. 
 
And look at Hebei Atun's Facebook page, still active. It links to Shanxi NEPU. Not to mention the WhatsApp contacts advertised for both companies the same.
 
So I texted a number listed on one of Shanxi NEPU's four websites. Without even mentioning the word fentanyl, the seller Linda Wang asked if we wanted this substance, which can be used to make fentanyl. Wang then sent me this full menu of chemical products. 
 
A closer look reveals these are mostly precursors, legal to buy, but ones that chemist tell us can be used to manufacturer illicit drugs from fentanyl to cocaine. 
 
The company offers fast delivery and safety shipping.
 
Door to door to USA. Logan Pauley is an intelligence analyst who has been investigating the
 
 flow of fentanyl precursors out of China for years. We showed him our conversation with Wong.
 
You have a warehouse in Mexico City. 
 
LOGAN PAULEY, INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: Wow.
 
CULVER: We wondered if Wang would reveal any ties to the sanction company. 
 
My colleagues tell me you are the same company as Hebei Atun, you're now called Shanxi NEPU Import and Export. Ha, ha! Yes, smiley face. Sorry, I don't want to cheat you. 
 
PAULEY: I think it's wild that they confirmed that they're the same company.
 
CULVER: In an email responding to our request for comment, Shanxi NEPU told us: We are not related at all to Hebei Atun, adding that they bought the sanction company's Facebook account, email, and cell phone number in order to, quote, attract Internet traffic. They also deny selling the fentanyl precursor that they offered to us in multiple exchanges, and the company denies having any warehouses in the U.S. or Mexico, stressing that everything they sell is legal. 
 
We found hundreds of other Chinese chemical companies selling the same fentanyl precursors legally. 
 
I mean, does this show do you think that the U.S. sanctions aren't working or are ineffective?
 
PAULEY: The way in which the system is being exploited by the Chinese companies makes it hard to enforce everything. 
 
CULVER: Another problem, when one precursor is banned, a substitute chemical quickly takes its place. 
 
ALEXANDRA EVANS, CHEMIST, DC DEPARTMENT OF FORENSIC SCIENCES: So what they're doing now is they're buying compounds that are structurally very, very similar.
 
CULVER: Chemists point out the ease of creating a substitute ingredient called amassed precursor. Simply put, make one small chemical change, and it's no longer a banned precursor, but a legal substitute, one that's readily available to purchase by essentially anyone with internet access. 
 
DEA officials tell us the majority of precursors ship directly to Mexico, where cartels cook up fentanyl in secret labs. 
 
We wanted to see for ourselves, traveling into the state of Sinaloa, cartel country as some see it. We got exclusive access with the Mexican army as they hunt for drug labs.
 
They took us to their latest fentanyl lab bust, this unassuming home. That white building right there, that's the fentanyl lab. 
 
The army says they seized 270,000 pills here, all containing fentanyl. 
 <br>[14:50:02]
 
Soldiers keep watch 24/7, preserving the scenes for prosecutors and preventing cartel members from restarting production here.
 
Despite what we saw and scenes like these, Mexico's president claims -- here in Mexico, we do not produce fentanyl, he said. Instead, turning it on the U.S., essentially asking why the U.S. can't fix its own social decay, comments that immediately made headlines across the country. 
 
China's foreign ministry points the finger in the same direction. They told us, quote, using China as a scapegoat will not solve the drug crisis in the United States. 
 
With U.S. drug overdoses at record levels and a relentless demand for opioids blame shifts from one country to another, international cooperation appears increasingly unlikely. 
 
DONAHUE: If we had Mexico actually working with us, you can actually work against precursors coming in and actually target Chinese companies from Mexico. 
 
CULVER: Instead, the burden falls here on the U.S. southern border where drugs continue to pour in. 
 
Narcotics. 
 
We don't know what -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You don't know what it is yet.
 
CULVER: -- found obviously significant amount of drugs in the back trunk. We'll continue as -- I will continue over this way and get out of their way because they're going to continue to investigate that finding. 
 
Do you see yourself as the last line of defense?
 
MARIN: We're the last line of defense holding the border. But we're the first line of defense in the expansion and whole of government outreach approach. It's not just an enforcement mission. It's a humanitarian mission.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CULVER (on camera): And it really is a humanitarian mission as the port director put it, especially here in the U.S. where drug overdose deaths continue to hover near records. Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas recently referred to fentanyl as the single greatest challenge we face as a country. So it raises the question, what can be done? While experts tell us one thing that could be incredibly helpful is to go after the individual business owners rather than just the company's sanction. Shanxi NEPU, the company that we engaged with through this reporting -- well, they say they're taking steps to stop the negative influence as they put it, that the U.S.-sanctioned company Hebei Atun has had on their company, and we're just noticing that several of the Shanxi NEPU websites are now offline. The seller Linda who we were speaking with, according to the company, she no longer works with them. 
 
David Culver, CNN. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Thank you so much, David. 
 
Still ahead, U. S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas is defending himself after it was revealed that he and his wife took several luxury trips paid for by a GOP megadonor. Some are now calling for Thomas to be impeached. We'll discuss with a historian straight ahead.
 
Plus, in this week's staying well, everyday gym workouts get a cinematic flair. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Cardio cinema is watching a movie while you do low impact exercise. 
 
(MUSIC)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The benefit of preparing a movie with fitness equipment is basically another way to distract you while you're working out. 
 
Cardio cinema, I do think is going to increase endurance because chances are you're going to do it longer. You're going to want to see what happens in the movie. You don't have to work out for the whole 90 minutes. But at least I think there's potential to actually exercise longer. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The cardio swimming is actually really popular, definitely makes the cardio not feel like a chore by adding the entertainment factor into it. It just makes a lot more comfortable for those that want that quiet space. We currently have sair climbers, ellipticals, recumbent bikes and treadmills. 
 
You do not have to reserve a time. They can come and go at any given time. They're not obligated to stay the whole time. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I use cardio cinema because personally, cardio is always something a little bit boring for me. I can do it for as long as I really need to, because I'm constantly being entertained. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: If you're going to start a cardio cinema class, just be really easy on yourself. Exercise for 15 minutes, you can exercise for an hour. You can exercise hard for 20 minutes. It's really up to you. You can do whatever you want. Before embarking on any new workout, I think it's always best to consult your medical provider or your physician. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: The Easter holiday is turning into a wet one for many in the Pacific Northwest. A new atmospheric river is bringing more rain to areas that have been drenched in recent weeks. 
 
CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar is tracking all of it. 
 
Oh, no, here we go again. 
 
ALLISON CHINCHAR, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yeah, it is. Now, for this event specifically, we're mainly focused across the Pacific Northwest. So, states like Washington and Oregon, were already starting to see some of those rain bands continue to push in right now. 
 
It's only going to get heavier as we go through the afternoon and even then transitioning into Monday. In fact, you can see that what looks like a very narrow hose there, that is the atmospheric river that funnel of incredibly intense moisture that will be coming through in the next 24 to 48 hours. 
 
Along the coastline, heavy rainfall is going to be the concern, widespread 2 to 4 inches could even be a few isolated spots that gets slightly higher amounts. Say five or even six inches of rain. Once you get into the higher elevations specifically in the cascades, in the Olympics. 
 
Now, you're talking additional snow again. This is on top of what they've already had. Keep in mind with those amounts, you could end up getting some localized flooding as well in the next couple of days. Also, some flood watch concerns for these two areas here, but for a slightly different reason. This is actually due to extreme warm temperatures that will be arriving and what it's going to do is take all of that snow that's fallen over the last couple of months and start to melt it, but it's going to melt it rapidly, and that's where the flooding concern becomes an issue. 
 
Looking at the temperatures again, take Las Vegas, for example, 90 degrees that this upcoming week their normal is only about 77.