Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Netanyahu: Proposed Judiciary Reforms nor a Threat to Israel's Democracy; U.S. Releases Video of Russian Fighter Jet Forcing Down U.S. Drone; South Korea & Japan Renew Security, Trade Ties; Israeli President Warns of "Civil War" over Proposed Reform; UAE Championing Youth Involvement; CNN Shines Light on Modern Day Slavery. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired March 16, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Well, this hour Israel's President warns of civil war in an impassioned speech to his country. We 
 
 are live in Jerusalem. First up, though the European Central Bank raised interest rates by 50 basis points or half a percentage point this despite 
 
 shakeups in the banking sector roiling markets.
 
Iran's National Security Chief is meeting with his Emirati Counterpart in Abu Dhabi today. The visit comes less than a week after Iran and Saudi 
 
 Arabia signed a deal to reestablish ties. Newly released footage from the U.S. military shows the moments in American drone and a Russian fighter jet 
 
 clashed over the Black Sea. The Pentagon says the encounter lasted over 30 minutes.
 
And the Biden Administration is threatening to ban TikTok unless its Chinese owners divest their shares. United Kingdom banned the app from 
 
 government devices today falling in line with the European Union and the United States. All right you're back with us for the second hour of 
 
 "Connect the World". The President of Israel issuing the direst warning yes, over unrest brought on by planned judicial reforms.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISSAC HERZOG, ISRAELI PRESIDENT: I'm going to use a phrase I haven't used before. Expression that there is no Israeli, who is not horrified when he 
 
 hears it whoever thinks that the real Civil War of human lives is a limit that we will not reach has no idea precisely now in the 75th year of the 
 
 State of Israel that this is within touching distance.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well on Wednesday, Isaac Herzog presented an alternative framework for the judicial reforms and these are really controversial these 
 
 reforms but Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu immediately shot it down. And today people once again took to the streets. So tonight we ask, is the 
 
 Israeli government on the brink of losing control?
 
Well, CNN's Hadas Gold covering all of this for us from Jerusalem. And the abyss is within touching distance says the Israeli President? You've been 
 
 following this story for months, is the situation as dire as Isaac Herzog makes it sound?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: Well Becky, I'm just outside of the Supreme Court. We have been following protests here in Jerusalem all 
 
 day. And while you definitely hear some of the divisiveness on the street, while we were following some student protesters who were you know, chanting 
 
 slogans such as democracy, not a dictatorship.
 
You did have some people in cars shouting back at them saying things like some of them, were saying Bibi is King, a reference to the Israeli Prime 
 
 Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, some of them getting rather passionate.
 
Now, I have not yet seen many of these sorts of counter opinions devolve into violence on the street. But I think that's why the President wanted to 
 
 speak out ahead of these sorts of things happening, that has not yet happened.
 
But he's really President clearly understands and was talking about the divisiveness that is he believes really hurting the Israeli society. He 
 
 talked about at the Shabbat tables, how families are being torn apart over this.
 
But as you heard me, the Israeli President put out this compromise proposal that he's been working on for weeks. He essentially called on - to take it 
 
 or leave it, not cherry pick it. But the coalition government essentially said thanks but no thanks, Benjamin Netanyahu and his government saying 
 
 that the reforms will they perpetuate the problems that they see with the judiciary.
 
They believe that judiciary has essentially become too powerful meddling into the affairs of the state meddling into the will of the people and that 
 
 they believe that their reforms need to go forward?
 
Now, they are pushing for these reforms at an incredibly rapid pace. They want to push these reforms to be done, signed, sealed, and delivered within 
 
 the next few weeks. So the question now is now that this compromise has put for essentially sharp back down back to square one, where do we go from 
 
 here?
 
Will there be some sort of softening perhaps of the legislation? Will they just continue to push forward unilaterally or now that I believe it's even 
 
 less likely possibility is some sort of compromise with the opposition?
 
I think the most likely situation will be that within the government itself, they will sort of soften some of the reforms within - with kind of 
 
 their own negotiations internally and put that forward, unilaterally.
 
ANDERSON: Internationally, and I'm talking about in this region and indeed in the U.S. and elsewhere.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
There is a growing narrative if that says Benjamin Netanyahu should be looking for an off ramp at this point given the reputational impact to 
 
 Israel over all of this. Is he, will he look for an off ramp? Is he - is that he is thinking, do you think at this point?
 
GOLD: There's plenty of reports in the Israeli media that if Netanyahu could make the decision by himself, there would have already been some sort 
 
 of compromise, but that essentially, he is beholden to his coalition partners, amongst them the most right wing and religious parties to sit in 
 
 a coalition government in Israeli history and that those are really the people pushing this on him.
 
But it's hard to know, because everything we hear from Netanyahu is essentially no things to the compromise. These reforms need to be done. But 
 
 you're right about the international pressure. We've heard it several times from the Americans from the President, the Secretary of State and most 
 
 recently, the U.S. Defense Secretary.
 
And actually today standing next to Benjamin Netanyahu, the German Chancellor, also talking about these reforms, clearly worried about what 
 
 they will do, essentially calling on the Prime Minister to consider President Herzog's proposals.
 
This is again, another international official standing next to an Israeli official, this time the Prime Minister and urging them to essentially 
 
 saying that they are worried about these reforms and what they could do to Israeli society.
 
Now, Netanyahu responded by saying Israel will remain a democracy and that these overhauls will only strengthen Israeli but you have to think about 
 
 the fact that Benjamin Netanyahu is not only a student of history, he is a writer of history.
 
So you have to wonder, what is he thinking? He must know that the history books are being written as we speak. And how will he be portrayed as a 
 
 result of these reforms if they continue the way they are pushing them forward?
 
ANDERSON: Yes, Hadas Gold is in Jerusalem, once again, out on the streets, covering protests and a lot more. Thank you Hadas on this! Later this hour, 
 
 I'm going to speak to a Former Media Adviser and Chief of Staff for Mr. Netanyahu for a deep dive on this upheaval. Get inside his mind find out 
 
 what someone very close to him over the years thinks he might do next.
 
Well, important step Thursday, in Iran's outreach to its Gulf neighbors, Iran's top security official met here with his UAE counterpart in Abu 
 
 Dhabi. After years of animosity, the two states have been growing closer lately it comes only days after Iran reestablished ties with Saudi Arabia 
 
 in a deal brokered by China.
 
Well, as China is enhancing its role in the Middle East some U.S. Senators are questioning U.S. support for Saudi Arabia, a bipartisan group of 
 
 Senators submitted a resolution on Wednesday that would tie U.S. security assistance to Saudi Arabia to a report on human rights in the Kingdom.
 
Well, I spoke to one of these Senators, last hour here on "Connect the World". He told me that Saudi human rights abuses are one reason it is 
 
 building stronger ties to China, this the thoughts of Chris Murphy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SEN. CHRIS MURPHY (D-CT): One of the reasons that Saudi Arabia is drawn closer to China is that China just doesn't give them a very hard time when 
 
 it comes to their human rights record. And in fact, gives them technology as they do to other countries that facilitate that campaign of repression. 
 
 So we should just be the eyes wide open when we think about why Saudi Arabia may be drawn closer to China, it's because China doesn't come with 
 
 any values asks.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): The Kingdom would argue that they do business with the Chinese and they are close to the Chinese because China is their 
 
 biggest customer should that not be part of the thinking here?
 
MURPHY: Well, there's no doubt that there's an important economic relationship between Saudi Arabia and China. If you look 10 years down the 
 
 road, oil produced in the Middle East is going to matter much more to China than it will to the United States.
 
And it's an interesting situation we have today in which China essentially, is a free ride on U.S. security guarantees in the Gulf. The United States 
 
 spends most of the money to secure oil deposits, exploration and transport. China gets more of that benefit today than the United States does.
 
So I don't know that it is completely out of bounds for China to be expected to pick up a little bit more of the cost when it comes to securing 
 
 a product that over the next two decades is going to matter much more to China than it will to the United States.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, it's Senator Chris Murphy with his analysis. Of course we have a lot more expert analysis from across the region delivered right to 
 
 your inbox three times a week that is cnn.com/mideastnewsletter and go there and click subscribers well worth a read.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
And at a time of market mayhem the European Central Bank is hiking rates and Switzerland's second biggest bank is getting a rescue. Right now some 
 
 stock market observers are calling the ECB's decision earlier to raise rates by a half percentage point as a bold move. It is the Fed's turn next 
 
 week.
 
Well, investors also watching Credit Suisse in a scramble to shore up confidence that troubled lender has agreed to a nearly $54 billion loan 
 
 from the Swiss Central Bank. Let's get right to CNN's Clare Sebastian in London. Positive reaction off the back of this Credit Suisse deal with the 
 
 Swiss Central Bank, what do you make of it?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, there was definitely a sigh of relief, Becky. The stock of Credit Suisse ease as you just showed there was 
 
 up some 20 percent after falling at one point more than 30 percent on Wednesday, definitely some relief that the Swiss National Bank rode to the 
 
 rescue.
 
And that Credit Suisse took advantage of that credit line. Stocks in Europe holding on to their gains after the European Central Bank decision despite 
 
 the fact that it came off the back of a lot of speculation that they might moderate that interest rate increase that they might go for a quarter 
 
 points instead of a half point even though because of the situation in the financial markets.
 
But I will say that in the banks in particular, the rally is cooling off a little bit. We still are in this climate of fear around the vulnerabilities 
 
 potentially in the banking sector that Credit Suisse in the events that we saw in the U.S. might not be the last shoe to drop.
 
So that's one thing. And there are of course, still lingering concerns in the U.S. with regional banks dropping again today, which Europe is most 
 
 likely taking note of the ECB though sticking to its guns. As I said, with that half point rate rise clearly telegraphing that the problem with 
 
 inflation at eight and a half percent in the Euro area is still that top priority.
 
Christine Lagarde, saying that their commitment to bringing it back to the 2 percent target has not waned, that they are of course, closely monitoring 
 
 the situation in the financial markets. And she made the point that this should not be viewed in the context of 2008. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRISTINE LAGARDE, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK PRESIDENT: Given the reforms that have taken place, and I was Iran in 2008, so I have clear recollection of 
 
 what happened and what we had to do. We did reform the framework. We did agree on Basel three. We did increase the capital ratio. We did increase 
 
 the financial coverage ratio as well. And I think that the banking sector is currently in a much, much stronger position than where it was back in 
 
 2008.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN: They're much stronger than 2008. But the word uncertainty crept into her press conference a lot of times Becky. She made the point that 
 
 they just don't know as of yet how this tension, as she put it, in the financial sector is going to play into the broader economy.
 
They're going to be closely watching things like lending to households, and businesses credit and things like that. If they start to see restrictions, 
 
 tighter terms and conditions come in, then that might impact the future path of monetary policy.
 
ANDERSON: Clare, it's a pleasure having you on thank you very much indeed! You're watching "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson from Abu Dhabi. 
 
 This is our Middle East Broadcasting Hub, of course.
 
Still to come, new video shows a Russian fighter jet encountering a U.S. drone before it went down in the Black Sea. Why the U.S. military says it 
 
 released the video? And Western governments turn up the pressure on TikTok trying to get China to relinquish all ownership of the popular app.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
ANDERSON: Proof of midair contact happened that is what the U.S. military is saying about video it released today that shows a Russian fighter jet 
 
 dumping fuel on a U.S. drone after that a moment of contact forcing that U.S. drone down into the Black Sea key moments of this video released two 
 
 days after the encounter which the Pentagon says lasted 30 to 40 minutes.
 
Oren Liebermann connecting us this hour from the Pentagon, the release of this video coming after repeated Russian denials of direct contact so just 
 
 walk us through what we are seeing here if you will and what it tells us?
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Becky, there are essentially two parts to this video of two different passes from Russian fighter jets 
 
 by the MQ-9 drone. In the first one there is no contact the Russian jet approaches from behind dumps fuel which is that almost spiraling cloud that 
 
 you see coming out of the back of the jet and then passes by the U.S. MQ-9 reaper drone.
 
That's the first clip. In that clip you also see the propeller spinning essentially well. The propeller itself is functioning. The drone itself is 
 
 still flying. It is the second clip that is more crucial to this encounters here an encounter that the Pentagon said lasted 30 to 40 minutes.
 
In this clip, you see roughly the same beginning to the encounter. The Russian Sukhoi Su-27 fighter jet approaches from behind begins dumping jet 
 
 fuel again, that's the spiraling cloud coming out from behind the jet.
 
And then as the collision happens the video essentially pixilated and goes to bars for a moment. How do you know there's a collision when it comes 
 
 back out? When you have a look at the back or the tail of the Reaper drone?
 
The propeller itself is damaged that forced the propeller to stop or the operators to stop the engine of the propeller from spinning and force the 
 
 operators to glide the drone itself into the Black Sea some 70 or 80 nautical miles Southwest of Crimea.
 
That's the crucial moment here. Why? First it supports the U.S. account of how this all played out over the Black Sea early Tuesday morning? Second, 
 
 it undercuts the Russian denial of what happens? In the Russian ambassador to the U.S.'s statement after he was summoned to the State Department on 
 
 Tuesday he said there were no collusion and no firing at the U.S. drone.
 
No firing. OK, great. We don't see the Russians firing at the drone. But we do have a clear account of the collision itself. And that undermines the 
 
 Russian account of everything of how this all played out essentially, Becky.
 
We've also learned according to two officials familiar with the intelligence that some of the highest levels of the Russian Ministry of 
 
 Defense ordered their pilots their fighter jets to harass, disrupt disturb the operations of the U.S. surveillance drones in international airspace 
 
 over the Black Sea. Though Becky it is worth pointing out that the officials say it doesn't seem like that went all the way up to Russian 
 
 President Vladimir Putin.
 
ANDERSON: Oren just how unusual is it for the U.S. military to release video like this?
 
LIEBERMANN: It's pretty incredible. I've been here for about two and a half years or so. It's rare to see drone footage like this release. First, the 
 
 video itself is largely classified, so it has to go through a declassification process.
 
And second, there has to be effectively a really, really good reason to release it. And generally there isn't. Yes, the Pentagon and the White 
 
 House acknowledged that there have been intercepts and interactions between Russian aircraft and U.S. aircraft in the skies before. But you rarely ever 
 
 see video of them. So to see it this clearly is quite incredible. And the reason the U.S. put it out is specifically to undercut the Russian account 
 
 of how this happened.
 
ANDERSON: Oren Liebermann is at the Pentagon few folks. Oren thank you! Well, Western governments sending a clear message that they are worried 
 
 about how China might use TikTok to spy on people's phones?
 
The UK today joining the United States in banning TikTok from devices used by government workers now the U.S. is threatening a further step saying it 
 
 may ban TikTok from the United States entirely if TikTok Chinese parent company doesn't spin off the app into a new company. China It says there's 
 
 no proof that TikTok presents a security threat to the United States or any other country.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
Well, CNN Technology Correspondent Brian Fung is following this story for us. What do you make of all of this?
 
BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER: Well, Becky, it's certainly a turning point here, especially in the United States, where you have the Biden 
 
 Administration taking a tougher line on TikTok, pushing for a divestiture based on its links to China. The UK ban is kind of other piece with a 
 
 number of other countries or governments that have taken steps to restrict TikTok from government devices.
 
In recent months, we've seen Canada, the European Union, and over half of U.S. states, restrict TikTok from official government devices and, of 
 
 course, the United States federal government as well. But you know, with this, you know, call by the U.S. government for TikTok to be spun off into 
 
 a separate company. That comes out of a rather opaque negotiation that's been going on between TikTok.
 
And the U.S. government for more than two years, about a potential deal that could allow TikTok to keep operating in the United States in light of 
 
 these security concerns. And, you know, like I said, this, this process is typically pretty opaque, you don't hear very much about how this happens, 
 
 or what is being discussed.
 
But in this case, TikTok has said that the U.S. government has asked it to spin off its operations from its trainee's owners, which could be, you 
 
 know, a potential turning point for these discussions. Now, it's not clear and talking to experts on this process, whether this marks the end of the 
 
 discussion or is simply a negotiating tactic.
 
But it does seem to be, you know, a turning point about in these tensions between the United States and TikTok. And some of this that may be driving 
 
 it is, you know, caused by U.S. lawmakers to ban TikTok nationwide. You know, there have been a number of bills proposed, and one of which the 
 
 White House has actually endorsed to give the president more latitude to enact a nationwide ban even on personal devices.
 
And so, it seems this process with TikTok this negotiation the United States government has been engaging in on the side reflects perhaps some of 
 
 the movements that we're seeing in Congress on this issue, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Understood. Brian, thank you. Right, this just into CNN, the French government has triggered a special procedure to push an unpopular 
 
 pension reform bill through the National Assembly without a vote. The move will ensure the bill rising the retirement age to 64 is adopted.
 
Now political observers say opposition parties are likely to request a vote of no confidence in the government. More on that of course as we get it. 
 
 Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now. And anger is still boiling over in the streets of Greece.
 
Hundreds of workers walked off the job and rallied in front of Parliament schools close flights grounded and ships remain doctors. Protesters demand 
 
 better safety standards after last month deadly train collision. At least 14 people were killed by floods in Turkey after heavy rainfall on 
 
 Wednesday. Rescuers seen here using polls to find bodies under the water.
 
This follows the catastrophic 7.8 magnitude quake that rocked the country and its neighbor Syria last month. Tensions rise in Senegal as security 
 
 forces fired tear gas at opposition protesters in the capital of Dakar. The clashes come ahead of the politically charged trial of opposition leader 
 
 Ousmane Sonko. He is facing rape and libel charges which he denies and says it's all a tactic to keep him from running in next year's elections.
 
Well, North Korea has launched another missile and the timing no coincidence said find a long-range ballistic missile off the coast of the 
 
 Korean Peninsula just hours before a high-stake summit between the South Korean president and the Japanese prime minister. The U.S. and both allies 
 
 have condemned the missile test.
 
Well, during that summit, South Korea's Yoon Suk Yeol and the Japanese Prime Minister agreed to completely normalize South Korea's military 
 
 intelligence sharing agreement with Japan both sides planning to resume frequent visits between the two countries.
 
And this is significant because it is the first talks of their kind in 12 years as the country's move beyond the years of disputes to confront 
 
 growing security challenges from North Korea and from China. Marc Stewart has more from Tokyo on the significance of this summit.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The visit here in Tokyo between Japan's Prime Minister and South Korea's president appears to be a new era in 
 
 diplomatic relations. These two nations have had a difficult path and now they're trying to move forward amid some shared stress in the region.
 
Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida says Tokyo and Seoul have agreed to resume shuttle diplomacy to open a new chapter in relations in a joint 
 
 statement with South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol.
 
President Yoon saying "We agree today that the people of the two countries have suffered direct or indirect damage due to the frozen bilateral 
 
 relations and agreed to restore and develop Korea Japan relations as soon as possible. President Yoon also agreed to completely normalize its 
 
 military intelligence sharing agreement with Japan.
 
Relations between the two nations have been difficult in recent years soured over several issues including a wartime labor dispute that had 
 
 emotional, economic and political implications. No start date has been set to resume shuttle diplomacy but this is happening in the face of North 
 
 Korean nuclear and missile threats.
 
In addition, we're already seeing the thaw before this meeting, Japan's trade ministry said it would lift export controls on three South Korean 
 
 products including one critical for the production of semiconductors, so entered agree to lift its complaints with the World Trade Organization. 
 
 Both leaders hope exchanges between the two countries will expand to politics, economics and culture. Marc Stewart, CNN, Tokyo.
 
ANDERSON: Israel's Prime Minister insists his proposed overhaul to his country's justice system is not a threat to democracy. Opponents disagree 
 
 and they are taking to the streets in droves. We'll speak to a former adviser to Benjamin Netanyahu about what is unfolding there. And the 
 
 countdown to COP28 has already begun ticking here in the UAE the focus of this year's conference, amplifying the voice of youngsters more on that 
 
 after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Right, it is half past seven here in Abu Dhabi. Welcome back to "Connect the World" with me Becky Anderson. Taiwan is warning Honduras not 
 
 to believe what it calls China's false promises after Honduras chose to break ties with Taipei in favor of stronger relations with Beijing. That 
 
 warning may be too late. Honduras says it wants the investment and trade that comes with access to China's economy and the decision is a done deal. 
 
 Stefano Pozzebon reports.
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN JOURNALIST (voice over): Nothing lasts forever the same goes. And in politics, everything is fair, even dumping your 
 
 diplomatic partner of decades in favor of its arch-rival when empty coffers demand it.
 
On Tuesday, Honduras President Xiomara Castro announced the Central American nation will open diplomatic relations with Mainland China, 
 
 effectively ending its relationship with Taiwan. A decision Honduras says that came after deep reflection and whose rationale was purely economic.
 
ENRIQUE REINA, HONDURAN FOREIGN MINISTER: We're very grateful for our historic relationship with Taiwan. But Honduras has great names. And this 
 
 pushed us to make a decision. And in this case, the decision from the president is to open relations with China.
 
POZZEBON (voice over): Honduras is one of Taiwan's only 14 diplomatic allies. Beijing mandates foreign countries to cease relationship with 
 
 Taiwan once they open ties with China. And countries that switch allegiance are proudly celebrated and handsomely rewarded by the People's Republic.
 
WANG WENBIN, SPOKESPERSON, CHINESE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS: We welcome the relevant statement made by the Honduran side the fact that 181 
 
 countries in the world have established diplomatic relationship with China on the basis of the one China principle as fully evidence that establishing 
 
 a diplomatic relationship with China is the right choice.
 
POZZEBON (voice over): Taiwan war in Honduras not to fall into China's trap. But China is already financing the construction of a hydroelectric 
 
 dam in Honduras, and the opening of diplomatic ties with Beijing was one of President Castro's campaign promises in 2021.
 
One analyst says that the ultimate winner Xi Jinping freshly re-elected as China's leader for five more years, who can boast one more diplomatic 
 
 achievement.
 
PARSIFAL D'SOLA, CHIESE FOREIGN POLICY ANALYST, ATLANTIC COUNCIL: Because part of Xi Jinping's long-term agenda is the re-unification of Taiwan with 
 
 the Mainland. So, the more isolated Taiwan is internationally, the closer he gets to its scope.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
POZZEBON: The United States which is Taiwan's closest unofficial ally has yet to react to Honduras announcement. China is already the main trading 
 
 partner of many countries in Latin America, and that economic influence carries diplomatic weight.
 
Over the last five years, at least four Central American countries have all switched allegiance from Taiwan to China. In a war there is more and more 
 
 polarized between the two main superpowers and Latin America's loyalty comes at a price. For CNN, this is Bogota.
 
ANDERSON: Fascinating. Let's get you back to our top story this hour. Israelis once again taken to the streets to try to stop what is a very 
 
 controversial judicial overhaul plan in Jerusalem people woke up to red lines painted on the road leading to Israel's Supreme Court. Police 
 
 arrested five suspected of involvement.
 
And in Tel Aviv earlier today, protesters wave flags, some chanting democracy or death. All of it is coming just hours after Prime Minister 
 
 Benjamin Netanyahu rejected a compromise reform deal proposed by President Isaac Herzog. Mr. Herzog also issued a stark warning saying the country is 
 
 on the brink of civil war.
 
My next guest is a former adviser to Prime Minister Netanyahu, Aviv, Bushinsky joins me now live. And we played that sound from the president at 
 
 the top of the show. But I think it's important that we just for those of our viewers, who may not have heard it, just hear it again. So, stand by 
 
 sir.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HERZOG: I'm going to use a phrase I haven't used before an expression that there is no Israeli who is not horrified when he hears it. Whoever thinks 
 
 that the real Civil War of human lives is a limit that will not reach has no idea precisely now in the 75th year of the State of Israel. This is 
 
 within touching distance.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: What do you make of what he said?
 
AVIV BUSHINSKY, FORMER ADVISOR TO ISRAELI PM NETANYAHU: I think personally that president Herzog use the wrong terminology by saying that they are at 
 
 the brink of civil war because since both leaders Benjamin Netanyahu from the coalition and Yair Lapid from the opposition actually declined his 
 
 suggestion to reform to concessions. And I fear that some people in the streets will take the law into their hands.
 
And as we've seen today, blocking streets, this is a very, very controversial reform. Some call the judiciary reform is a revolution or 
 
 dictatorship. I think that since our president that like your president Becky, has no power way to influence or to convince - by law Prime Minister 
 
 Netanyahu to make any concessions.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
He did use the wrong terminology, but bearing in mind that this is a huge turmoil in Israel. I think that in our 75 years of existence, we never 
 
 experienced such a divisive situation.
 
ANDERSON: And British, by the way, not that it matters. We don't have a president in Britain by work for an American network. And I think that was 
 
 your point. What do you make of this moment in time, especially given your previous role working so closely with Benjamin Netanyahu, just get inside 
 
 his thinking for us if you will?
 
BUSHINSKY: It's hard to tell because some people say that Netanyahu has changed. I personally think that Netanyahu is the best adapter in the 
 
 Israeli politics, if you remember; Netanyahu once was against the Oslo Accords. Then when he was elected for the first time in 96, he adhered to 
 
 the agreements, and then he said that he's in favor of a Palestinian state.
 
Then he said he's against. I think that now even prior to these elections is sixth elections in which he won, he said that he doesn't want to touch 
 
 those reforms, and the dependence of the judicial system is very important. What do I take? I think that Netanyahu wants to make some reforms, I think 
 
 that his member in the coalition do push him to do those reforms.
 
But then Netanyahu would like to be regarded as the greatest of all, or maybe the second greatest leaders in Israel, not only by breaking the 
 
 record of being elected, but also do some more constructive things, maybe Iran, maybe Saudi Arabia. So, I think that this derails them for the big 
 
 things.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. And, Aviv, you know, we know how important his sort of reputation internationally is, I mean, I've been around long enough to, to 
 
 have been observing Benjamin Netanyahu, both as Economy Minister, and as Prime Minister, you know, over the years, I'm talking 25 years.
 
And that is why I really want you're sort of thinking here, because I spoke with US Senator Chris Murphy, in the previous hour. He sits on the foreign 
 
 affairs committee, and he's called for a harder stance from the United States, on Israel. And I have to say, you know, he is echoing what I'm 
 
 hearing a lot in the U.S. Let's just have a listen to what he told me last hour.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MURPHY: There are very few people who know the Israeli mood better than President Herzog and I was deeply disturbed to see his comments yesterday. 
 
 I think he speaks to how the Netanyahu government is really fraying the bonds that have connected Israelis together.
 
And I worry that we are at a moment in which we are watching a future Palestinian state be obliterated by the pace of settlements by the 
 
 legalization of outposts. And I think the United States needs to draw a harder line with this government.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Fraying the bonds with the United States. I sit here in the Gulf interviewing you today in the capital, Abu Dhabi, and of the UAE. And a 
 
 year, you know, we have the Abraham Accords, holding together to date, but much talk that there could be the fraying of what are these normalized 
 
 relations with some Arab states, and certainly putting any idea of normalization with the Saudis on hold for the time being.
 
I mean, just how worried are you that Netanyahu's continued aggravation will lead to the deterioration of ties, not just with a steadfast ally in 
 
 the United States, but also with, you know, these newfound friends around the region?
 
BUSHINSKY: I'm worried, but I'm still a believer. And I'll take for instance, two elements. One, our former prime minister, Ehud Olmert - to 
 
 set today that perhaps the leaders in the world should seclude Benjamin Netanyahu or call him a persona non grata I think that what should be done, 
 
 and maybe this will be more country or more productive, is that President Biden, for instance, who called Netanyahu he said, I love Netanyahu.
 
I don't believe in one way. Then thing he says, I think that maybe if Biden will invite Netanyahu, yet was not invited since he was elected. And offer 
 
 some kind of a package deal in which on the one hand, Israel, Netanyahu will get something and security in peace process, maybe Saudi Arabia, maybe 
 
 things related to Iran.
 
And then Netanyahu will be able to come back to his people in Israel and say, we have now greater things to - other issues let's put it aside or 
 
 find a solution and cope with the big things.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
So, I think that instead of banning Netanyahu or not seeing him or not, we see him among the nations, he should be received. But he will put aside 
 
 those reforms that - in people internally, and as we see externally.
 
ANDERSON: Aviv it's, it's good to have you on. Thanks for joining us. These are difficult times. Your analysis and insight is important to us. Thank 
 
 you very much indeed. You're watching "Connect the World". I'm Becky Anderson, of course. Stay with us. We're taking a very, very short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Poland says it is sending fighter jets to Ukraine becoming the first NATO country to do so. The president Andrzej Duda made the 
 
 announcement a short time ago. He says Poland will be sending four Russian made mixes from its own inventory in a few days. And you can find my full 
 
 interview with the Polish president @cnn.com or on my Twitter page that is @beckycnn.
 
The UAE has officially begun its road to COP28 holding its first event on Wednesday in the lead up to the climate conference later this year set to 
 
 be held in Dubai its aim to raise awareness about the need to accelerate global action climate action with kids sitting at the heart of the debate.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SULTAN AL-JABER, COP28 PRESIDENT-DESIGNATE: I am excited to announce the international U.S. climate delegates program for COP28, the largest 
 
 initiative of its kind. The program will empower 100 young people from around the world to fully participate in COP28.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, organizers say it's the first time that young people have been given a big seat at the table at COP, a concept that isn't unfamiliar 
 
 to the UAE young people here leading the charge in various sectors from education to space to government affairs.
 
Well, I sat down with somebody who embodies that vision. Her Excellency Shamma Al Mazruti, the Youth Climate Champion for COP28, a brand-new role 
 
 designed specifically for this event. And I started them by asking her why that role is so important.
 
SHAMMA AL MAZRUTI, YOUTH CLIMATE CHAMPION OF COP28: If there is one pressing global problem and issue that the UAE leadership think that youth 
 
 must champion, it will be climate action. Young people are the most affected by climate change, and that's why you see them the most engaged, 
 
 most committed most passionate about it.
 
But also, climate change is just so complex. It needs us to re-imagine, re- think and re-design how we live, how we eat, how we work, how we consume, how we produce, and that needs new potential new ideas.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
And the union leadership believes young people are able to bring that kind of new angle and new lens data. And today, with the Youth Climate Champion, 
 
 the goal is to really take that UAE youth empowerment model global.
 
ANDERSON: What will success look like for you and for the youngsters that you have been speaking to?
 
MAZRUTI: So, our job in the Youth Climate Champion is to elevate the voices of all youth around the world global youth, those from climate vulnerable 
 
 states who have really haven't been included in COP, and you'll notice that. They told us four things, Becky, that they need very simple, and we 
 
 call them paving the way for climate action for COP28.
 
P for Participation, A for Action, V for Voice, and E for Education that's what global youth keep telling us. They want to participate. So, one of our 
 
 duties and our strategy in this pillar is to really champion reforms to mainstream youth participation at COP. If you look at A for Action, it is 
 
 to create spaces and opportunities for climate action that is done by youth.
 
The voice our job is to relay the voice of all youth, especially those coming from indigenous communities and focusing on inclusion, gender 
 
 equality, et cetera to ensure that their voice shapes outcomes in November pre-post and during COP.
 
And the last is education, we've realized from challenges that you face is that they don't have the necessary knowledge to be equal participants to 
 
 decision makers at COP. And so, we are really championing and advocating for Climate Education.
 
ANDERSON: The President Designate of COP28, Dr. Sultan Al Jaber has said no more dithering or deliberating, let's start delivering and that is very 
 
 much a message. We've heard from the most critical of the young climate activists. That criticism will that be supported here.
 
People around the world will want to know, is this a cop that everybody is invited to that everybody's voice will be heard whether or not it is 
 
 critical to the extent that it might be inconvenient?
 
MAZRUTI: When we talk about youth, everyone's voice is included. We are really hoping that COP28 is going to include everyone on the full spectrum. 
 
 So even when we talk about industry, you might say well, fossil fuels, it's a country of oil and gas. That's the whole point to include everyone 
 
 because the UAE understands the importance of economic development, but also the energy transition.
 
Today Dr. Sultan is transforming ADNOC, re-booting it, and re-thinking how it can be the next leader that is changed. And that's action. And today the 
 
 UAE wants to model that but it also wants to learn from others how can we move together towards action?
 
The ambition from young people that we hear is two things. What does success look like? Youth inclusion to be continuous, unbroken and 
 
 mainstreamed in future COP so, I hope that the Youth Climate Champion, yes, it's a turning point for COP28. But we want it to be a turning point and 
 
 new normal for future cops.
 
ANDERSON: We have a message for those who may protest and I'm talking about youngsters who may look to COP28 here in the back end of November. And want 
 
 to protest the very fact that this event is being held here in what is oil and gas based country.
 
MAZRUTI: We welcome them; we'd love to hear from them. In the UAE we want everyone on the table, their voice is important. And I think them 
 
 advocating means that they're passionate about this. And we need that passion.
 
ANDERSON: You declared at the Arab meeting for young leaders in Dubai last month. It's time for the Arab youth to pick up the pen and write their own 
 
 story the way they see fit for themselves. How will you in your new role? And how will this event the road to cop and the actual event in November 
 
 enable that?
 
MAZRUTI: The UAE is giving the Arab world as well not at all youth, but because you mentioned Arab youth an opportunity to author a new book in the 
 
 book of climate change because we have a negative book. Today it's an opportunity for young people to take the pen to author the best-selling 
 
 sequel at COP28.
 
Because to be honest, climate action has been business as usual but youth and diversity that they raise inviting is going to be bringing a business 
 
 of possibility and that's the business of possibility that we want to bring to cop.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
ANDERSON: The COP Youth Champion, Shamma Al Mazruti speaking to me earlier this week. Well still to come how students around the world are raising 
 
 awareness for my freedom day. My colleague Stefano Pozzebon is live in Chia in Colombia.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Today is MyFreedomDay, an international celebration of freedom where young people across the globe are raising their voices to combat 
 
 modern day slavery. This student in Lagos turned her passion into poetry.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Freedom, the parts of act speak or think as one wants. But people who don't have that power are crying out with no response. There 
 
 are sex trafficking, domestic servitude, one day labor, all taking place in this society. And we remain spectators one on by another, we hear that plea 
 
 and helping hand we do not offer the blood that was shed, sacrifices that were made. We come on - that be in vain.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Amazing. CNN's Stefano Pozzebon joins us now from the San Rafael rehab center in Chia in Colombia. Tell me why you're there? And what you've 
 
 seen?
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN JOURNALIST: Yes, Becky, we're not in a school. We're in a rehab center where users are here to overcome difficulties, especially 
 
 with substance abuse here in; we're in the periphery of Bogota. And what we are here to witness is a group of these users who are sharing their 
 
 experience in what slavery and modern slavery means for them.
 
Of course, there are many signs of slavery that we need to learn how to recognize. And so, sharing these experiences among them is the key. And you 
 
 can see on my background, that there is #MyFreedomDay where they are attaching papers where they write their experiences and how they think 
 
 modern slavery impacted their lives.
 
So one, they were in a situation of difficulty when they were in a situation of abuse. I'm also here with a new friend who is ready to share 
 
 her testimony with them. Her name is Laura. She's 24 years old. And she did, she was a victim of modern slavery in the past. And she's here to 
 
 explain how her experience and what she did to overcome that phenomenon. So what I'm going to ask her is why she thinks her testimony is so important 
 
 for a day like this.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
POZZEBON: So, she says that every person has many roads in front of her over themselves. And that the freedom is the possibility of choosing the 
 
 road and she thanked an organization Orphaned Starfish which is a partner of MyFreedomDay, and a friend of CNN for allowing her to acquire 
 
 professional skills to be able to go beyond and overcome the situation of modern slavery that she was in the past.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
After that, in the next few hours, these people just behind me are going to share some dances. They're going to work on graffiti to try express at the 
 
 awareness that we wanted to raise in such an important day for CNN and for us here in Colombia. Becky?
 
ANDERSON: Stefano, terrific stuff. Thank you so much. And wherever you are watching in the world, join CNN as we observe MyFreedomDay. Tell us what 
 
 freedom means to you and share your message on social media using the #MyFreedomDay.
 
That's it from us from the team working with me here in Abu Dhabi; it's a very good evening. Of course, CNN continues after this short break, so 
 
 don't go away see same time same place tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
END