Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Anti-Government Protests Taking Place In Tel Aviv Today; China Kicks Off "Planned" Military Exercise Around Taiwan; Biden Promises Administration Will Fight TX Ruling On Abortion Pill; Two TN Lawmakers Ousted After State Capitol Protest; Pope Francis Leads Vigil Service Inside St. Peter's Basilica; Tiger Woods Making Record-Tying 23rd Consecutive Cut in Augusta. Aired 1-2p ET

Aired April 08, 2023 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:00:45]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN HOST (on camera): Hello, everyone. Thanks again for joining me in New York. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. And we begin with more massive protests on the streets of Israel. The demonstrators are demanding that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu abandon controversial judicial overhaul legislation. It's the 14th straight week that Israelis have protested over their proposed changes.
 
And this time, it comes against the backdrop of days of violence between Israel and Palestinian militants in Gaza and southern Lebanon. CNN's Fred Pleitgen is in Tel Aviv. So, you still have a whole lot of people who are turning out for this same cause 14 weeks in a row. Is there anything different about the tenor or the motivation here?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Hi there, Fredricka. Well, first of all, you're right. I mean, there are a lot of people who came out on the streets at night -- tonight to protest against that plan, judiciary reform or overhaul bill. But of course, this current security situation does play a role in this as well and has influenced how this protest is going to happen and has happened.
 
I think one of the things that we have to keep in mind is that only about 24 hours ago, there was a very large terror attack that took place here in the city and at least one person was killed. I believe right now, there's actually a moment of silence for the victims of those terror attacks. That's what the people here said that they would do because they obviously want to pay homage to those who were killed and injured in those attacks that have taken place.
 
At the same time, the people here say that they believe that the cause is so important. They believe that this proposed bill is such a threat to democracy here in this country. They believe that it threatens the division of power, they believe that it threatens the democracy of this country. And so therefore, they say they still need to come out. However, the way that this protest is happening is different. And also, of course, some of the things that the protesters are saying is different as well. There is usually music that is played at this event right now, that's not happening. You can hear also right now, it's very quiet here. There is a moment of silence, as well. But at the same time, the people here do believe that it is very important for themselves to get this message out , Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Fred Plotkin in Tel Aviv, thank you so much. All right. Let's bring in now Barak Ravid. He is the Middle East correspondent for Axios and author of the book Trump's Peace. And I wonder, you know, Barak, that these protests continue, despite the kind of unrest that we have also seen this week. Does there seem to be sort of a different atmosphere in the protests that have gone on for 14 weeks because of the activity this week?
 
BARAK RAVID, MIDDLE EAST CORRESPONDENT, AXIOS: Yes, Fredricka. I think that it's -- at first, it's amazing that this thing is still going on, regardless of the fact that Netanyahu suspended the legislation which means that the protesters don't believe that he's serious. That's number one. Second, it is still going on while the security situation is deteriorating. And the reason for that, one of the reasons for that is that the main achievement of the protest is the fact that Netanyahu had to backtrack on his decision to fire minister of defense Yoav Gallant.
 
It just happened two weeks ago, we feel like it was 10 years ago. It's only happened two weeks ago. And people now are saying -- the protesters are saying that with the current violent escalation, if they did not protest against the firing of the minister of defense, Israel would have been in a much more serious and difficult security situation.
 
WHITFIELD: Are there any indicators that the Prime Minister Netanyahu is willing to respond to this kind of public pressure?
 
RAVID: It is still -- I think the jury's still out. When you ask Netanyahu, he will tell you, I got the message. I'm willing to try and find some sort of a compromise during negotiations right now between the opposition and the coalition under the auspices of President Herzog still (INAUDIBLE) but if you ask other people around Netanyahu that are dealing with this thing for the last three months.
 <br>[13:05:06]
 
They say both privately but also publicly that once the Knesset session resumes on April 30th, they'll just going to go back to where they left it a few weeks ago.
 
So, I think there's a good chance that few weeks from now, they will just go back to pushing this legislation.
 
WHITFIELD: Today, there seems to be a fragile peace. What are the concerns or thoughts about any resumption of what has been transpiring from militants in Lebanon with Israel?
 
RAVID: Well, I think that in Lebanon, it was pretty clear that Israel does not have any interest to start anything big in Lebanon and especially not the war with Hezbollah. This is a game changer. This would affect the entire region. Israel has no interest to do that. But the main problem is still the Temple Mount or Muslims call it Haram esh-Sharif, the al-Aqsa Mosque. Tensions are still very high there.
 
We're in the middle of the holy month of Ramadan, we're in the middle of Passover. Tomorrow morning, they're supposed to be the visits of Jews at the Temple Mount will resume. This is I think, the most serious and sensitive issue right now. This is what is influencing everything else. This was influencing the West Bank, this was influencing Gaza. This is what's influencing Lebanon.
 
WHITFIELD: And they the new violence this week is rooted in the Israeli security forces raiding the al-Aqsa Mosque. Is their universal agreement that that was the tipping point?
 
RAVID: I think first, yes. But I think there's something more to it that a lot of people don't know. Since this government was sworn in, a lot of far-right elements within Israel who for years try to change the status quo at the Temple Mount were emboldened politically. Some of them are even supporting, offering -- the offering of sacrifices on the Temple Mount near the al-Aqsa Mosque.
 
And in previous years when those people said that, they said, well, those people are on the fringes. It's not important, they will not be able to do that. But right now, they have backing from ministers and lawmakers within the coalition. And I think that in the days before the unrest at the Temple Mount, those people called publicly to offer sacrifice on the Temple Mount. And I think that this was one of the main reasons for the current unrest.
 
WHITFIELD: Fascinating. Barak Ravid, thanks for breaking all that down. It's very complex situation and it all continues. So good to see you. Thank you so much.
 
RAVID: Thank you, Fredricka.
 
WHITFIELD: Taiwan says it has detected more than 70 Chinese war planes and nine military vessels crossing over the Taiwan Strait today. The increased military drills come after the Taiwanese president made a 10-day trip to Central America and the United States, which Beijing denounced as a provocation.
 
CNN's Will Ripley has the story.
 
WILL RIPLEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): It's not entirely unexpected that just after Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen arrived back from the United States in Central America. That 10-day diplomatic trip which included that transit stop in California and that meeting with the U.S. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy which infuriated China that this would be happening. 
 
The PLA Eastern Theater Command announcing united sharp soar. These military drills starting on Saturday saying they're going to end on Monday of combat-ready patrols and exercises in and around the Taiwan Strait to the north, south and east of Taiwan, both the sea and the airspace as planned, the PLA says. They put out a quote saying that this is a serious warning against the Taiwan separatist forces collusion with external forces. A reference to the U.S. And unnecessary move to defend national sovereignty and territorial integrity.
 
Dozens of PLA warplanes were also spotted in and around Taiwan's Air Defense Identification Zone beginning on Saturday morning. Now, Taiwan's defense Ministry, of course they have, you know, they're monitoring this, they're on high alert, if you will. But their statement seems to downplay the significance of this sharp sword exercise by China. This is what the statement reads in part.
 
In recent years, the Chinese Communist Party has continued to send aircraft and ships to harass the region which has threatened the regional situation. It even used President Tsai's visit and transit to the United States as an excuse to conduct military exercises which has seriously damaged regional peace, stability and security.
 <br>[13:10:02]
 
So, here in Taipei this act that they believe is an attempt to intimidate them. They say will not cause Taiwan to react in a way that will escalate this situation. It seems to be China, you know, doing all of this angry about President Tsai's transit through the United States. 
 
Meanwhile, President Tsai didn't even mention the military drills when she made comments on Saturday because she's been meeting with yet another bipartisan group of U.S. lawmakers including some of the men and women in Congress who will be making a decision about whether to sell Taiwan even more defensive weapons to defend against a potential Chinese invasion.
 
Will Ripley, CNN, Taipei.
 
WHITFIELD: The U.S. Justice Department has opened up an investigation to leaks of apparent classified U.S. intelligence documents posted on social media Web sites in recent weeks. The most recent documents surfacing on Friday covered everything from U.S. support for Ukraine to information about key U.S. allies like Israel.
 
CNN's Kylie Atwood joining us now from the Pentagon. Kylie, great to see you. So, what do we know about this investigation? The documents that have been released?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Yes. Well, listen, it's pretty early in terms of the investigation which DOJ just announced yesterday. They are looking into this matter of this apparent trove of classified documents from the United States that have leaked onto social media. And as you said, there are a number of these documents and they are from recently -- recent months from February and March of this year.
 
And they cover a wide range of topics. So, the initial trove that caught attention earlier this week had to do with us support for the war -- for Ukraine for the war, obviously, that is ongoing. But they also cover a wide range of other topics like regarding allies like the U.S.-Israel relationship. And then there are other topics that have to do with the war in Ukraine, such as South Korea's concerns about potentially providing ammunition to the U.S. to be given to Ukraine for use in that war or the ties between the UAE and Russia.
 
Just a wide range of topics here, Fred that are covered. Now, we don't know -- we cannot independently verify if these are all legitimate classified U.S. intelligence documents and that they haven't actually been altered. What we do know is that the first trove that caught attention, that's regarding the U.S. support for Ukraine earlier this week, officials did say that those did appear that they were legitimate documents.
 
And it's pretty surreal to look at these documents, Fred, because they appear to be photos that someone took have crinkled up pieces of paper and those pieces of paper that hold this information on them. Many of them hold top classification levels, markings of top secret on them. Some of them also have the markings of the Joint Chief which is the office at the Pentagon that advises President Biden.
 
Now of course, we don't know the source of these leaked documents. DOJ, as you said is open this investigation and the Pentagon tells us that they are looking into the matter. But of course, this has really rattled U.S. officials across government, particularly at the Pentagon.
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, it is alarming. Kylie Atwood, thank you so much.
 
Still ahead. Two conflicting federal court rulings on medication abortion. What all of this means for the fight for abortion rights, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:17:41]
 
WHITFIELD: A new battle in the fight for abortion rights after a pair of dueling decisions threatened to upend a key drug used in the procedure. In Texas, a federal judge issued an order halting the FDA's more than two decades old approval of the drug Mifepristone. But a short time later, a judge in Washington State ordered the federal government to protect access to the drug in 17-democratic led states and the District of Columbia.
 
CNN's Rosa Flores and Arlette Saenz are following all the developments for us. Rosa, to you first. Take us through these two conflicting rulings.
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Hi, Fred. Yes, as you mentioned, really what is created here is a chaotic legal landscape. So, out of the state of Texas, a federal judge suspended the FDA approval of the abortion drug Mifepristone. Now, a separate judge -- a separate judge in a separate case in the state of Washington ordered the federal government to keep the drug on the shelves in 17 states and the District of Columbia. Now, it's important to note that the central question of these two cases is not the right to abortion. That was the question that went before the U.S. Supreme Court last summer -- when the US Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade. What's at the center of these two cases is really an administrative law. In essence, the statute that allows the FDA to regulate medication in this case, Mifepristone and in this Texas law what plaintiffs argued is they argued that the FDA's process was completely flawed, that it did not consider the risks to women and to girls. 
 
And for their part, the FDA argued that this medication is safe, that it was approved back in 2000. That has been used by millions of women and that women rely on and use this drug and that it is completely safe. Now, there is a pause to the Texas order. The Texas judge had to pause for -- edit a posture that order for seven days. Which means access to this drug is available right now. It has not been interrupted.
 
Now, what is next? The U.S. DOJ has filed notice to appeal and the U.S. DOJ says on behalf of the FDA that they're also reviewing the Washington order.
 <br>[13:20:02]
 
And I should mention that the plaintiffs, Fred, say that they're also digesting the order issued by the judge in Texas and they're also reviewing the order issued at Washington. Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: And then Rosa, why did the Texas judge suspend the FDA, you know, approval of this drug? I mean, take us through the judge's order.
 
FLORES: You know, Fred, it's very interesting, because this judge does not hold back in this order. In these 67 pages, he really rips apart the FDA's approval of this drug saying that they did not consider the risks to women and girls. 
 
But let me take you to some of those points because in this order, the judge says that the FDA's refusal to impose certain restrictions on this drug, "It resulted in many deaths, and many more severe or life- threatening adverse reactions. Due to the FDA lacks reporting requirements. The exact number is not ascertainable but it is likely far higher than its data indicate."
 
It goes on to say whatever the numbers are, they likely would be considerably lower had the FDA not acquiesced to the pressure to increase access to chemical abortion at the expense of women's safety.
 
Now, leading medical organizations have been pouring in with reaction. Criticizing this judge for this order and the language used in this order. Let's remember here, this judge is not a subject matter expert. This judge is not a doctor. So here are the doctors reacting to this. The president of the American Medical Association issuing a statement saying in part that this ruling, "flies in the face of science and evidence and threatens to upend access to a safe and effective drug." Goes on to say, the courts disregard for well-established scientific facts in favor of speculative allegations and ideological assertions will cause harm to our patients and undermines the health of the nation. Now, there's no question, Fred, that this judge was sympathetic to the plaintiffs in this case. And from this order, it's clear that this judge ignored a lot of the arguments from the FDA that were made which included that this drug was safe. Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: Yes. Rosa, our Elizabeth Cohen, our medical correspondent underscored earlier today that the science establishing that this drug is less risky than penicillin and Viagra. All right. Arlette, to you at the White House. The White House, you know, has come out forcefully against this Texas ruling. So, what is the Biden administration saying and willing to do?
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Well, Fred, the Biden administration had really been bracing for this decision for quite some times with advisor's meeting here at the White House for weeks. Preparing for the possibility that this Texas judge would rule in this matter. Now, President Biden has vowed to fight this decision every step of the way. And that started last night as the Justice Department moved to appeal this decision with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, which some consider to be one of the country's most conservative appeals court.
 
Now President Biden in his statement slammed the decisions and also talked about the national ramifications it would have. He said, "this does not just affect women in Texas, if it stands, it would prevent women in every state from accessing the medication, regardless of whether abortion is legal in a state." He added, it is the next big step toward the national ban on abortion that Republican-elected officials have vowed to make law in America."
 
The President also talked about the larger repercussions this could have when it comes to prescription drugs in this country. Warning that drugs approved by the FDA could also be at risk. That was a sentiment that was also shared by Vice President Kamala Harris last night.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, UNITED STATES VICE PRESIDENT: It is contrary to what makes for good public health policy to allow courts and politicians to tell the FDA what it should do. This is a drug that the FDA approved as safe 20 years ago and has been proven to be safe for 20 years. So, a dangerous precedent.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAENZ: Now both Vice President Harris and President Biden had said that they want to see Roe v. Wade codified into law but right now those votes in Congress simply don't exist, making the political reality in their options that they have to address to this very limited at this time.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Arlette Saenz at the White House. Thanks so much. All right. Coming up. Two Democratic lawmakers expelled from the GOP- led Tennessee House of Representatives after they led a gun reform protest on the House floor. Why they say the move is oppressive, vindictive and racially motivated, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:29:07]
 
WHITFIELD: This week, two black democratic state lawmakers were expelled for protesting for gun reform while on the Statehouse floor. And a third legislator who is a white woman was threatened with expulsion but was spared.
 
CNN's Gary Tuchman has more on the protest, the fallout and whether the expelled lawmakers might soon be back in the legislature.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
GARY TUCHMAN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): New energy at the Tennessee State Capitol after a day of protests, debate and consequential votes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The House stands in recess until 5:00 p.m. on Monday, April 10th, 2023.
 
TUCHMAN: Two Democratic legislators had just been expelled from the Tennessee House of Representatives by Republican supermajority.
 <br>[13:30:00]
 
TUCHMAN: In the hallways of the state capital in Nashville, demonstrators yelling and crying, with some staging a die-in protest. 
 
(SHOUTING)
 
TUCHMAN: As legislators filed out of the House chambers, a chaotic scene. Tennessee state troopers standing between them and demonstrators. The yelling was loud but all stayed peaceful. 
 
(SHOUTING)
 
TUCHMAN: And then came the representatives who had been the subject of the expulsion discussions. Justin Pearson on the left. Gloria Johnson in the middle. Justin Jones on the right. The two men expelled. The woman surviving by one vote. 
 
They were punished by Republicans for their demonstration on the House floor last week, calling for gun reform, walking up to the well of the chamber and protesting following the horrific school shooting in Nashville last month. 
 
(CHANTING)
 
TUCHMAN: Republicans saying their behavior was disorderly, and as a result, they made the decision to kick the two men out of the legislature. 
 
So what does the woman who survived have to say about that? 
 
STATE REP. GLORIA JOHNSON (D-TN): I think it's pretty clear. I'm a 60- year-old white woman, and they are two young black men. 
 
TUCHMAN: The chairman of the Tennessee Black Caucus is Sam McKenzie. 
 
STATE REP. SAM MCKENZIE (D-TN): The world saw the options. I don't have to say a word about the fact that our two young African-American brothers were unfairly prosecuted. Information, evidence introduced inappropriately. But they handled themselves like true champions. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TUCHMAN: Republicans deny  racism allegations. Some saying that Gloria Johnson was not leading the protest effort last week.
 
One Republican leader told us further investigation taken into the ethics committee, a lesser punishment was met something as party wanted to do.
 
STATE REP. JEREMY FAISON (R-TN): This group, my caucus, which is the supermajority -- there's 75 of us - said, no, that is not -- we don't want to go to the ethics throughout. We don't want them censored. We want them expelled. 
 
TUCHMAN: But one of those expelled representatives stands by what he and his two Democratic colleagues did, saying they were not being allowed to talk about what they feel needed to be talked about gun reform. 
 
STATE REP. JUSTIN JONES (D-TN): We have been expelled for standing with our constituents. But I have no regrets. I will continue to speak up for District 52 and for Tennesseans who are demanding change.
 
TUCHMAN: Notably, both expelled legislators could be back in office, and soon. Their county commissions will appoint temporary representatives prior to the next election. And they are permitted to select the two men who were expelled.
 
(on camera): When the Tennessee State House of Representatives reconvenes on Monday, they're expected to be protesters where we're standing, showing their support for the two legislators who were expelled, and the one who was almost expelled. 
 
And those three, Justin Jones, Justin Pearson and Gloria Johnson, it's anticipated they will be here, too. 
 
Gary Tuchman, CNN, in Nashville. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: I want to bring in now Dr. Jonathan Metzl for his expertise on gun violence research. He's a professor of sociology and psychiatry, and the director for the Department of Medicine at Vanderbilt University in Nashville. 
 
He's also the author of "Dying of Whiteness, How the Politics of Racial Resentment Is Killing America's Heartland." 
 
Dr. Metzl, so good to see you. 
 
I mean, based on the research that you have done over your career, and for this book, let's look at what maybe you know, one of the roots of the expulsion of these black lawmakers. 
 
I mean, one of our previous guests touched on it, saying, "A majority white body with a cultural agenda wanting to lock into its rulings that are favorable to a white majority." 
 
Do you see it this way or in another way? How do you assess this? 
 
DR. JONATHAN METZL, PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY AND PSYCHIATRY &amp; DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE, VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY &amp; AUTHOR: Well, I'm so glad this story is getting national attention, that we're really debating the real issues about what's happening in Nashville. 
 
I will say that even though people are kind of waking up to this now, it's been months and months and years of just trying to find some kind of balance between gun rights, on one hand, we have a Second Amendment -- a lot of people are gun owners -- and something that will keep people safe in schools and workplaces. 
 
We've seen months and months of mass shootings. A mass shooting, of course, started this -- this whole issue right now. But we've had months of school shootings, kids getting killed by accidental shootings, all these factors.
 
And really what people are asking for is some kind of common ground. I really don't think it's too extreme to say let's give families red flag laws, the ability to highlight of one of their -- one of their relatives is spiraling. 
 
Let's have background checks. The way we do when we -- really, you know, a car or anything you buy that has a has a risk. You have some kind of process to get it. 
 
But instead, what we've seen is not just rejection of that particular agenda, but really a doubling down. 
 
So over the past couple of months, Tennessee legislators have -- have tried to expand open carry of A.R.-15s to people who are 18 years old and older. They have tried to do away with really every regulation on public carry.
 
And so really, what we're seeing now is a bubbling up of a frustration. Because people don't feel safe. And they don't feel like their politicians are really doing anything about it. And I think that's the voice that that you're hearing now. 
 <br>[13:35:00] WHITFIELD: I mean, you saw people of all ages -- they were children, they were adults, there were teachers, there were students -- who were, you know, protesting, who were yelling during the expulsions, you know, yelling at the well.
 
And yesterday, you know, I spoke with Representative Gloria Johnson, the white female Democrat, who was spared from the House expulsion.
 
And listen to how she views what happened to her colleagues. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STATE REP. GLORIA JOHNSON (D-TN): So when I was standing there, you know, I just started to walk off of the floor, just like Justin did after he was expelled. And they're like, no, you they you won the vote. You won the vote.
 
And I was like, I can't you know when all that started saying but that's not ok because of Justin. 
 
And so, for me, I took no satisfaction at that point for winning because I was so concerned about Justin Jones, who had who had gone before me. His -- his resolution went before mine. 
 
And just broke down in tears because it just mortified me. He made such a beautiful defense.
 
And, you know, after his, I was like, oh, my goodness, I can never be that eloquent that articulate, that, you know, powerful. What a powerful speaker. And then -- and Justin Pearson after that.
 
But when you heard the tone of the questioning in there on how they were questioned and how I was questioned, it was clear what that was about. It was so clear. 
 
And -- and -- and the thing was they were so good at pinpointing it out and hitting it directly. I was so proud of them. 
 
We need their voices in the legislature and I'll do everything I can to help them get back. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, she's so eloquently reflected on, you know, that moment that, you know, she was saved, you know, in that vote and how just prior, Justin Jones was not, and then of course following her, Justin Pearson also expelled.
 
State Republican House Speaker Cameron Sexton says, you know, that the Democrats broke several rules of decorum and procedure on the House floor point blank. That's why it led to that. 
 
You know, Johnson herself, you know, said following the expulsions, that -- that she was spared because of the color of her skin.
 
So will that stand in the way of the process, in your view, Dr. Metzl, that could -- you know, if there's a reappointment of both Justin Pearson and Justin Jones, do you see that it is going to be the color of their skin that might stand in the way of that process? 
 
METZL: Well, of course, there is a profound racial component to this that has been going on for decades and really centuries. 
 
My book, "Dying of Whiteness," looked at the extent to which white conservatives in Tennessee were willing to sink the entire ship of health, prosperity rather than let everyone onboard in a way.
 
And what I found in that book was not just about guns but about education, about health care, all these factors.
 
Instead of saying, hey, look, there's a new reality brewing right now, and we're all better off if we join together, the people I interviewed in my book, and the data I found in my book showed that people were basically willing to forego their own health care rather than create a system where everybody would rise. 
 
And certainly, we're seeing in the south that there is really a south that's different than people in the north might imagine. Many people are moving to the south right now. There are many different constituents.
 
And the amazing Tennessee Three really represent liberal constituencies, constituencies of color, who feel like the ways of the Old South are just not working anymore, and they and they want a voice. 
 
And so I really think it's a -- it's a battle right now in a way. And I hate to use that word. I don't think it's a -- it's a Civil War. But this has been going on for a long time. And I don't think it's going to go away.
 
So whether they appoint the one white person and not the two black people, I just think that these issues really are ones -- and again, my research shows that we're all so much better off by creating health systems and safety systems and education systems that work for everybody.
 
Instead of what the GOP is doing right now in Tennessee, which is trying to suppress all people from benefiting from the systems that -- that really creates prosperity in the south. 
 
WHITFIELD: Dr. Jonathan Metzl, thank you so much. Thanks for your perspective. 
 
METZL: Thanks so much. 
 <br>[13:39:35]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, happening right now, Pope Francis leading Easter vigil service inside St. Peter's Basilica as questions about his health linger. We'll go live to Rome straight ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) WHITFIELD: Tomorrow is Easter Sunday. And followers of the Christian faith are preparing to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ on the third day after his crucifixion. 
 
It all marks the end of the 40-day period of penance called Lent. 
 
And happening right now, Pope Francis is leading an Easter vigil service inside St. Peter's Basilica after missing the Good Friday procession due to bad weather. 
 
CNN Vatican correspondent, Delia Gallagher, joining me live now from Rome. 
 
Delia, what is taking place right now? Paint the picture for us. 
 
DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Well, I hope you can see those pictures. This is really, Fredericka, the most beautiful mass in the liturgical year for Christians. 
 
It starts in darkness. And the pope, just a few minutes ago, lit the first candle from the back of the church, where there's like an open fire pit. And then they process in and they light the candles of all the people who are in the basilica. 
 
I mean, it's something that they do in all of the Christian churches on this day.
 
And of course, Pope Francis, we saw him arrive in a wheelchair. You see him sitting down there. So obviously, he didn't process in, which is one of the things that were watching closely in these days.
 <br>[13:45:09]
 
But at this mass, the pope will baptize eight people. This is something else that happens at the Easter vigil. There are baptisms. And so Pope Francis will also be baptizing eight people from different countries, including the United States. 
 
So this is really the beginning of the Easter celebrations. This has been a long week for Pope Francis since Palm Sundays. The whole Holy Week has a number of different events, Fredricka. So he's got one more to go tomorrow. 
 
But this is really the start of the Easter celebrations for the Christian church -- Fred?
 
WHITFIELD: And now, the pope did not attend the Way of the Cross yesterday because of intense cold. And we also know this is, you know, not long after his bout with bronchitis and being treated, after your conversation with him.
 
So how is he doing? 
 
GALLAGHER: Well, look, normally, I would be very concerned when the pope skips an event like the Via Crutches at the Coliseum. That's very important. And it's concerning any time a pope skips an event. However, when you consider, as you mentioned, he was just released
 
 from the hospital on Saturday. He's getting over bronchitis. He's 86 years old. 
 
That event, Fred, is at 9:00 at night in front of the coliseum in Rome. It has been very cold at night. Beautiful sunny days, but cold at night. 
 
So I think really it was just a prudent decision, considering all of the events that the pope has to do this week, and considering his state of health.
 
I mean, I think really, the real issue for the pope is his mobility problem, that he's not moving around. And so you know, that can bring a whole host of other issues for him and has been like that for some time. 
 
He says he doesn't want to have an operation on his knee. He wasn't happy with the anesthetic for his last operation, so he's just getting by. 
 
He's up to the challenge. It's been a challenging week, but he's getting through it. We'll see him tomorrow as well in St. Peter's square -- Fred? 
 
WHITFIELD: Yes, and seemingly maintaining his sense of humor, as he did with you in your chat with him last week.
 
Delia Gallagher, thanks so much. Happy Easter. 
 
All right, this week on "SEARCHING FOR MEXICO," Eva Longoria continues her culinary adventure in Oaxaca, where indigenous traditions and modern innovations create some of the country's most incredible food wonders. 
 
Here's a preview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have our money place here. Look at this. 
 
EVA LONGORIA, ACTRESS: That smells nice. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OK, here goes the moment. 
 
LONGORIA: Yes. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And now our friend. 
 
(SHOUTING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Chocolate. 
 
LONGORIA And to get it out. 
 
(CROSSTALK) LONGORIA (voice-over): Alex's custom-made chocolate is the crowning ingredient -- 
 
(on camera): So smooth and silky.
 
(voice-over): -- to this magnificently complex and sophisticated sauce. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So let me give you a taste.
 
LONGORIA: OK. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Place, OK? 
 
LONGORIA: OK.
 
(on camera): It's super chocolatey.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. 
 
LONGORIA: So good. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You like it? 
 
LONGORIA: Yes. Oh, my god. 
 
I knew I was going to get molais (ph) on my dress. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know --
 
LONGORIA: Now I'm more happy in Oaxaca.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Si, senora.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: Yummy.
 
All right, the new episode of the CNN original series, "EVA LONGORIA, SEARCHING FOR MEXICO," airs tomorrow night at 9:00 right here on CNN. 
 
All right, still to come, Tiger Woods makes a record-tying 23rd consecutive Masters cut at Augusta National. We'll go there live, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:53:14]
 
WHITFIELD: All right, Tiger Woods is moving on at the Masters after making history with the 23rd consecutive cut. And right now, round three is underway despite soggy conditions in Augusta. CNN's Don Riddell is there live for us. 
 
So, Don, what are the players up against, besides this yucky weather? 
 
I know, Bundle up. I'm feeling the chill. 
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yes, I know. The real feel is 39 degrees here, Fred. And yesterday, it was in the mid-eighties. So I mean, just a really wild --
 
WHITFIELD: Weird.
 
RIDDELL: -- shift in temperatures. 
 
OK, these guys, they're up against each other. They're up against the arguably toughest golf course in the world, or certainly one of them. 
 
But they are really battling the elements here. It is cold. It is wet. It is windy.
 
This morning, the players that had to go out and finish their second rounds really where I -- just, I mean, it was just a nightmare for them. I mean, if you enjoy seeing the top athletes in the world suffering, then this was must-see television.
 
I didn't see really any smiles. It was just grimacing. The rain was coming down in absolute buckets. And the -- you know, the guys were making bogeys left and right. 
 
And so when they all got off the course, I think they would just be glad to be back in the clubhouse. 
 
And this is what some of them had to say about these really tough conditions. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SAHITH THEEGALA, PRO GOLFER: It was brutal this morning because it's just so cold. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED PRO GOLFER: It felt like a different sport today, dealing with all the elements and the cold, rain.
 
UNIDENTIFIED PRO GOLFER: Am I going to look thrilled to play 18 holes in this, this afternoon? No. I'm a wimp. I'm an old wind. But I'm excited to play this morning. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED PRO GOLFER: It's freezing. So it's interesting. It's mad how the weather can change here. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[13:55:02]
 
RIDDELL: As you say, Fred, Tiger Woods, the five-time champion, playing in his 25th Masters tournament. He did make the cut, which was a brilliant performance, especially in the conditions, and given everything that he has experienced in the last few years. 
 
He's out on the course. The leaders have just teed off. The USA player, Brooks Koepka, is currently leading by two. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right, anything can happen and anything usually does at the Masters. 
 
All right, Don Riddell, thanks so much. 
 
All right, coming up in the next hour of the CNN NEWSROOM, a federal judge in Texas ruled that the FDA's approval of the abortion drug, Mifepristone, should be halted. 
 
But another federal judge in Washington State is protecting access to the drug in 17 Democratic-led states and the District of Columbia. The impact of these two conflicting rulings in the fight for abortion rights, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)