Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Hawaii Wildfire Now Deadliest U.S. Fires in a Century; Donald Trump Could Soon Face Fourth Indictment; Australia Headed to World Cup Semifinals. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired August 13, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[03:00:00]
 
LAILA HARRAK, CNN ANCHOR:  Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from the United States and all around the world. I'm Laila Harrak.
 
Ahead on CNN Newsroom, the scale of devastation in Hawaii becoming clearer by the day on now the deadliest wildfire in more than a century and the death toll is expected to rise even further as crews continue a grim search for victims.
 
And former U.S. President Donald Trump could be facing a fourth indictment in the week ahead over his attempts to overturn the 2020 election results here in Georgia.
 
Plus, the Matildas waltz into the Women's World Cup semifinals after toppling France in a nail-biting penalty shootout.
 
Also, quote, the governor of Hawaii, what his state is going through is heartbreaking. And days after wildfires decimated parts of Maui, the death toll is still rising. Authorities have now confirmed 89 deaths, making the fires the deadliest in the United States in more than a century. And that number is expected to climb even more in the coming days, as crews sift through the devastation caused by the fires. Some 2,200 structures are damaged or destroyed. 86 percent of them homes, while the governor is urging Hawaiians to come together for what will be a long road to recovery.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. JOSH GREEN (D-HI):  This is the largest natural disaster we've ever experienced. It's going to also be a natural disaster that's going to take an incredible amount of time to recover from. So, in the next few days as we characterize how many people we've lost and how many people are coming into our community, please understand that we come at this like an ohana because it's going to be in the short-term, heartbreaking, in the long-term, people are going to need mental health care services. In the very long-term we'll rebuild together.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  And Hawaiians aren't waiting for the government to step in and take care of them. They're taking it on themselves to answer the call for help with groups from nearby islands working together to bring much-needed relief and supplies to Lahaina by boat. While, many residents of Lahaina are growing frustrated, officials say they know people want to get back to where they live. But in many places it's just not safe.
 
CNN's Mike Valerio shows us the long lines of those wanting to see what's left of their homes and what they're dealing with.
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, this is the next chapter of recovery here in Lahaina. This is the main road that goes into the decimated town. It's about away 20-minute drive as these utility workers go past us.
 
As we zoom in, this is the main checkpoint. It has been off limits up until yesterday around noon. That is when this roadway, the Honoapiilani Highway, reopened to traffic and then shut down after too many people were going into restricted areas of the ruins.
 
So, as we walk over this way, you can see that the line to get in goes on and on behind us, more than a mile. So, people now are waiting to see if they're able to get in. And what police are telling drivers at that checkpoint, they can only get in if they are residents or tourists who are staying at hotels within the disaster zone.
 
We spoke with motorists before dawn. Listen to what they told us.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I got out here by 11:00, made it all the way to the other side. I was done by 3:00, picking up all the supplies I got. And then got to here and I've been here since 3:00 in the afternoon.
 
VALERIO:  You've been here since 3:00?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Yes. None of us has moved. My co-worker, she's up there two trucks. My other -- I've got three other co-workers down there. They're back there. They've been here the whole time.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  It's either laughter or tears, you know, when I talk to all the people in our business that have been affected. We have about 14 people that lost their houses. And so we're just trying to do the most good we can. But it's really frustrating when you can't.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VALERIO:  Now, we do have updated figures and projections from the federal government, 2,207 structures damaged or destroyed by this fire. 4,500 people could be the number of people who live here who will need shelter in the near and long-term.
 <br>[03:05:00]
 
So, again, the next chapter begins with getting back to the neighborhood and towns -- town, I should say, that people have loved and called home for decades. But it is uncertain when so many people will make it in to see what exactly has survived. Mike Valerio, CNN, Maui.
 
HARRAK:  Well, joining me now from Kihei, Hawaii is Allen Vu. He's a resident of Lahaina. Allen, thank you so much for joining us at this very difficult moment. How are you?
 
ALLEN VU, RESIDENT, LAHAINA, HAWAII:  I'm doing pretty well, thank you considering, yes.
 
HARRAK:  I understand that you have been back to Lahaina. What did you encounter?
 
VU:  I -- just a very desolate place. We went through -- we got stuck in traffic most of the way. We got our I.D.s checked to make sure we're residents of Lahaina before we got through. And we were -- you know, there were areas where we were given access to enter and there were areas that we were not given access to enter.
 
We were bringing supplies to us to provide to some of our co-workers who are still stranded out there in hotels, up in Napili and Kahana area. But yesterday the place was still without power, but I heard today that Napili and Kahana got some power back.
 
HARRAK:  And, Allen, were you able to go and visit your home?
 
VU:  I did, yes. I was able to see my home, or what once was my home.
 
HARRAK:  How did that make you feel?
 
VU:  It was just nothing -- you know, all we have are memories of it. That was definitely a moment of sadness, for sure.
 
HARRAK:  Are you receiving any support? I mean, do you have a place to stay right now?
 
VU:  Of course, tremendously. I can't stress it enough, of how much support locally and globally we're receiving from everyone, you know, from GoFundMes to everyone in Costco packing up supplies to bring into town, and from my corporate company to assist in any way that they can. They're sending out care packages and to ensure that all of our co-workers are taken care of the next month in terms of financial support.
 
I'm just very overwhelmed with the awesome, awesome love and support and concern that's coming from all sorts of directions.
 
HARRAK:  I know it's very early days and you're dealing with so much in such a short time span. But how difficult will it be to pick up the pieces again?
 
VU:  We witnessed a very fast fire blowing through our town. And just to see the amount of destruction and ashes all over the place, I -- you know, I think everyone understands it's going to be a long road for Lahaina to come back and build a strong economy.
 
But, you know, Maui people, we are really strong, the support and the ohana and the aloha is real, like seeing it everywhere and everyone is just very anxious to come back to help rebuild the town.
 
HARRAK:  Have you been able to connect with members of your community, friends, any friends that you're still trying to establish contact with?
 
VU:  Yes, yes. It's very spotty. I mean, the cell phone towers in Lahaina were damaged and then there's no reception in town. We can only wait for responses through text messaging. But all of our team members for our job were accounted for and that was the priority with our company. And we were able to take everyone into account for our location.
 
But, you know, we're doing what we can to get into town to make sure that everyone that is accounted for that is still stuck in Lahaina, that their necessities and needs and supplies are provided.
 
HARRAK:  And is aid coming through or is it mostly people helping other people?
 
VU:  Well, you know, within the first couple days after the event, it was mostly local, you know, community, everyone, citizens and residents of Maui doing what they can to assist. But we're slowly seeing a lot of aid come in from Oahu and the state.
 
Yesterday as we were leaving Lahaina, we saw like a big load of diesel trucks just carrying a lot of supplies carrying gas coming in. So, I hope that everyone on the west side are provided with what they need.
 <br>[03:10:00]
 
HARRAK:  For people watching this and listening to what you've shared with us and they really want to help, what should they be doing?
 
VU:  I believe what they can do is -- well, mostly, people, who have watched, who have visited Maui, have walked through Lahaina, so I think that whoever they know or came in contact with in Lahaina, I think the best way is to sort of create GoFundMes for them or Venmo the individuals. Because people here, when they receiving funding like that, I can see that they're putting it in a good place. They're really helping those who are really in need or those who are really in need of financial support or just from supplies and bare necessities.
 
And, you know, just seeing what I have seen like in the aftermath of how people have come together, including corporations and big organizations, foundations, everyone is doing what they can, it seems, to make sure that everyone gets taken care of.
 
HARRAK:  Allen Vu, thank you so much for sharing some of your experiences with us. We wish you all the best.
 
VU:  Thank you.
 
HARRAK:  The fires also are endangering the lives of thousands of pets and other animals. Maui's Humane Society estimates that around 3,000 pets have been lost or gone missing so far. Many are in need of critical care due to burns or smoke inhalation. The agency is seeking emergency foster homes and urging residents to take in animals.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KATIE SHANNON, DIRECTOR OF MARKETING, MAUI HUMANE SOCIETY:  What we ask the community to do is take animals from the kennels and place them in their own homes to make space for what we know is going to be inundated with animals that are lost, missing or need medical care. And that is exactly what the community has done. And so Maui Humane Society now has the space to care for these animals when they come through.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  Well, the agency has also set up emergency clinics across Lahaina and is working with emergency teams to provide care to animals.
 
Now, for more information on how to help those impacted by the Hawaii wildfires, please go to cnn.com/impact.
 
Donald Trump, the leading Republican candidate in the U.S. presidential race, could face a fourth indictment as early as this week. An Atlanta prosecutor has called on at least two people to testify before a grand jury on Tuesday over efforts by Trump and his allies to overturn election results in Georgia.
 
Well, the move is the clearest indication yet that the district attorney intends to present her case to the grand jury and seek indictments against more than a dozen people.
 
We get more details now from CNN's Marshall Cohen.
 
MARSHALL COHEN, CNN REPORTER:  It looks like all systems are go for the Fulton County district attorney to present her case to a grand jury early this week in her investigation of former President Donald Trump and his attempts to overturn the 2020 election in Georgia.
 
CNN previously reported that this was expected in the coming days, but we now know that some of the witnesses who were subpoenaed to testify were told specifically to show up on Tuesday. And that means that the proceedings may begin Monday going into Tuesday.
 
One of those witnesses is an independent journalist named George Chidi, who witnessed some of the fake pro-Trump electors meeting at the state house in Atlanta in December 2020.
 
Another key figure who will head to the grand jury on Tuesday is former Georgia Lieutenant Governor Geoff Duncan. Here's what he told our colleague, Fredricka Whitfield, on Saturday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEOFF DUNCAN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  I did just receive notification to appear on Tuesday morning at the Fulton County grand jury, and I certainly will be there to do my part in recounting the facts. I have no expectations as to the questions and I'll certainly answer whatever questions put in front of me. And I certainly don't want to go any deeper than that to jeopardize or compromise the investigation.
 
But, look, for me this is a story that is important for Republicans to hear, Americans to hear. Let's hear the whole truth and nothing but the truth about Donald Trump's actions and the surrounding cast of characters around him.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COHEN:  Duncan, who is now a CNN contributor, is a Republican, and he was in office when Trump tried to pressure Georgia state officials to flip the results and overturn the will of the voters.
 
Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis, an elected Democrat, launched the criminal investigation in 2021. The probe has steadily expanded over time. She is scrutinizing Trump's attempts to interfere with the vote counting and the election certification. She's also looking at the fake elector scheme as well as efforts by Trump supporters to breach an election system in rural Coffee County.
 <br>[03:15:01]
 
State prosecutors are expected to give that one or two-day presentation to the grand jury this week. CNN has previously reported that Fani Willis is eyeing conspiracy and racketeering charges known as RICO and is expected to pursue indictments against perhaps more than a dozen defendants.
 
Trump has already been indicted federally on charges stemming from his attempts to subvert the 2020 election and disenfranchise voters. He pleaded not guilty, and he has claimed that the probe in Atlanta is just not another witch hunt.
 
Marshall Cohen, CNN, Washington.
 
HARRAK:  And at least six people have died after a boat carrying dozens of migrants capsized in the English Channel. French officials say rescue teams pulled nearly 60 people from the water. Two remain unaccounted for. It's another tragedy in one of the world's busiest waterways. Human traffickers routinely send small, overcrowded boats from France to the U.K. The ship that sank was just one of dozens that were launched from France on Saturday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEAN-PIERRE FINOT, FRENCH NATIONAL SEA RESCUE SOCIETY:  They were in trouble. There was the problem of seasickness and then also the boats were quite simply overloaded. They overloaded the boats, and so the boats can no longer move forward. The last boat where we intervened was too full.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  Well, British authorities are hoping to stop the dangerous crossings but haven't made much progress. On Thursday alone, more than 750 people were detected crossing the channel to the U.K., nearly 1,200 detected by the British government in the past week. And nearly 16,000 have made the treacherous journey just this year. French officials say the U.K. needs to do more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAYOR NATACHA BOUCHART, CALAIS, FRANCE:  Today, we must impose or threaten somehow so that the British would radically change their ways of welcoming refugees or that they change their working methods. In any case, they could at least have the decency to open a reception facility on the other side of the border.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRAK:  While the U.K. is facing heat for its policies toward refugees and migrants in the country, on Friday, officials removed 39 asylum seekers from a controversial barge in Southern England after a bacteria was discovered in the water supply.
 
Iranian women are fighting for their freedom, defying the mandatory hijab law, even as the country renews its so-called morality police patrols. More on that ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
HARRAK:  It's been nearly a year since Mahsa Amini died in the custody of Iran's so-called morality police for allegedly violating the country's strict conservative dress code. Her death sparked massive nationwide protests. Well, now, many months later women are still defying the veiling laws, even as Iran doubles down on punishments.
 
CNN's Jomana Karadsheh reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Iran's brave women are fighting for their freedom with everyday acts of defiance like this, out on the streets without the mandatory hijab. This recent video appeared to show a woman harassed and called a criminal for refusing to cover up.
 
The days of being afraid of you are over, she says.
 
Nearly a year after the death of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini in the custody of the so-called morality police, the uprising sparked by her death may have been crushed by a bloody crackdown but not the will of those standing up for their most basic of rights.
 
Countless women have been defying the clerical establishment, choosing not to wear the compulsory hijab. And now the regime is lashing out with a campaign of renewed repression, announcing the return of morality police patrols. UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Being a woman in Iran is now harder than ever. Because of all the attention, our privacy and safety is a wish. You should always be worried and careful about police.
 
KARADSHEH:  This young woman we're not identifying for her safety spoke to us from inside Iran.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The morality police are mostly in metro stations and sometimes on the streets. They warn you, if you disobey they take video or photos. And normal people who are still on the government's side work like paparazzi.
 
KARADSHEH:  And that's not all. Authorities are considering a draconian new bill that would make failure to abide by the strict Islamic dress code a more severe offense with unprecedentedly harsh penalties, including five to ten-year jail sentences and fines of more than $8,000.
 
This may be just a warning to intimidate those who dare to dissent. But an intensified crackdown has been well under way. This chilling video released by a group affiliated with the security apparatus captures some of their terrifying tactics, facial recognition technology purportedly being used to identify and threaten unveiled women.
 
Cameras are everywhere. Thousands have their cars confiscated, according to Amnesty International, and women without veil are being denied access to education and public services.
 
Perhaps even more disturbing is courts have been imposing degrading punishments on women, including counseling sessions for, quote, anti- social behavior, cleaning government buildings and washing corpses in morgues.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I couldn't believe the mortuary punishment until I saw some judgment papers with my own eyes, which was washing corpses for a month.
 
KARADSHEH:  Are you and other women around you scared when you're out in public?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  The first days were scary. But with time the courage inside everyone grows and now no one is scared. People were just waiting for a spark, and that happened last year. We keep going for the kids who were murdered during the protests.
 
KARADSHEH:  Many like her say this is not just about the hijab. This is about standing up to tyranny and they're not backing down.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Most people believe in freedom now because they've tasted it.
 <br>[03:25:00]
 
We know about the punishments, but we know everything has a cost. And if this is the cost of freedom, we are ready to pay for that. I'm sure we will see Iran breathing again one day. KARADSHEH:  Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRAK:  Ukrainian missiles Reportedly go after a strategic Russian supply line. Still ahead, Russian air defenses get busy as Ukraine apparently targets the Crimean Bridge again.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
HARRAK:  Welcome back to our viewers in the United States and Canada. I'm Laila Harrak and you're watching CNN Newsroom.
 
Ukraine is cracking down on alleged corruption in its military recruitment centers. On Friday, President Zelenskyy fired all heads of regional recruitment officers across the board. The reason, they're accused of profiteering during wartime. More than 100 investigations are now under way.
 
Mr. Zelenskyy says, every official who crossed the legal line will be brought to justice. He also says that from now on, recruitment offices will be led by soldiers and wounded military veterans.
 
For more, we're joined now by Tetiana Shevchuk, the head of international relations at Ukraine's Anti-Corruption Action Center. Thank you so much for joining us.
 
How important is it for President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to show that he has zero tolerance for corruption?
 
TETIANA SHEVCHUK, HEAD OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, ANTI-CORRUPTION ACTION CENTER:  Hi. It's extremely important because corruption is perceived by Ukrainians as our number two problem aside the Russian military invasion into Ukraine.
 <br>[03:30:01]
 
And corruption is perceived as treason by many Ukrainians, especially in the wartime. So, any allegations of corruption is a dismorale (ph) for people and there is a huge outrage for each and every news or instance of corruption. That's why, for President Zelenskyy, it's very important to fight corruption just to get their system work properly but also to show the people that the government is doing their job.
 
HARRAK:  Now, this has been a very public announcement by the president, dismissing everyone. Does this mean that everyone was guilty of corruption, all conscription offices had problems, or is this more meant as a message domestically and to Ukraine's western backers? I mean, what has been the reaction so far?
 
SHEVCHUK:  So we are talking about dismissal around 20 officers, the heads of military recruitment centers. That's why it's very important to understand that not everyone is accused of corruption but so many of them. And because of their inefficiency of these military centers, there was a need to show people that the government is on top of the problem. We should understand that the system is inheritance of the old Soviet recruitment system and we didn't have enough time to do the reform. The reform only started several months before the invasion. And the problems were piling up. And there was a lot of bureaucracy and corruption allegations on many levels. Therefore, putting veterans and wounded soldiers is also a sign that the system is changing and will be better in the coming months.
 
HARRAK:  How successful is President Zelenskyy as a wartime president at fighting corruption, especially at this critical time in the war?
 
SHEVCHUK:  I think there are some successes but there are -- because there are less instances of corruption on many levels but there is a lot of work to be done. Ukraine showed huge progress in the last nine years, ousting of the pro-Russian president, Yanukovych, but it was a long and difficult road. And not everything is straightforward and clear.
 
But in the situation of the war, this is kind of die or evolve situation. We either fight the corruption and make the system of governance better or it will be a crucial blow to our war effort. And everyone understands that and I think President Zelenskyy understands that too.
 
HARRAK:  Tetiana Shevchuk, thank you so much.
 
Now, Russia is lashing out at Ukraine after a new missile attack on the Crimean Bridge. This video appears to show Russian air defenses at work before reportedly shooting down three Ukrainian missiles on Saturday.
 
Russian officials say the missiles didn't cause any new damage. But they also say Moscow's Special Services later put up this smoke screen around the bridge, which makes it harder to assess the impact.
 
Russia's Foreign Ministry later slammed what it called a terrorist attack on civilian infrastructure, this despite the fact that Russia regularly strikes Ukrainian cities and infrastructure, causing deaths and injuries among civilians.
 
And British researchers say Russia started producing its own version of Iranian military drones. Analysts believe Tehran has provided hundreds of drones to Moscow, which used them to devastating effect in Ukraine. But according to the Conflict Armament Research Group, Russia is now making them at home.
 
The group came to the conclusion after analyzing the remnants of two drones used in Ukraine last month. The researchers believe Russia will likely be able to mass-produce these weapons, and U.S. officials say last month Iran was helping to build a drone factory in Russia.
 
Let's get you more on these latest developments. Clare Sebastian joins us now live from London. Clare, good morning.
 
What more do we know about the missile attack on the Crimean Bridge? CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, good morning, Laila. We understand this may have been three missiles in total. That's according to the pro-Russian head of Crimea, who talked about modified air defense missiles, S-200, being used. The Russian Ministry of Defense talks about two separate attempts to hit the bridge a couple of hours apart on Saturday afternoon.
 <br>[03:35:01]
 
But, of course, they say that they thwarted there's attempts and there's no damage.
 
I think, look, the Russian Foreign Ministry in condemning the attack said that the bridge was a piece of purely civilian critical infrastructure. That, I think, does not bear out in reality that we know that this is really the only physical link between Russia and occupied Crimea, that it's a critical part of the war effort. But it's also a critical part of Russia's sort of messaging, propaganda, strategy, being that only physical link symbolizes to the Russian people, legitimizes that annexation the best part of a decade ago. It legitimizes this war.
 
And while Ukraine hasn't said anything about these latest missile strikes, they have claimed responsibility for previous attacks on the bridge which did cause damage. So, I think, look, if this was Ukraine, it's part of sending a message, right? This Rubicon has now been crossed. The Crimean Bridge, they see as a legitimate target, not only to disrupt Russia's war effort but to get across that message that they see this as an illegitimate bridge that Crimea, they still want to take it back. And that is part of the strategy here, Laila.
 
HARRAK:  And Clare, British researchers believe that Russia has started producing its own version of Iranian military drones. How significant would that be?
 
SEBASTIAN:  So, that would be really significant, Laila, because, obviously now, almost 18 months into this conflict, we're at a point where this isn't just about sort of amping up the technology of weapons, this is about replacement, right? Drones are now a huge part of the strategy on both sides. They are, in many cases, disposable. You need to replace them.
 
And we have known through U.S. and other intelligence that Russia has had a pipeline through Iran for those Shahed attack drones. But, obviously, it would be cheaper and quicker to do it domestically. So, that is certainly significant. It speaks to an ongoing strategy of sort of aerial attacks. Russia clearly aware Ukraine has gaps in its air defenses and is keen to exploit them.
 
And, look, if you're building factories, that is not something you want to reverse quickly. That shows Russia is likely in this for the long haul, willing to invest in this. And while we know, for example, that the Russian budget at the end of last year looked at a small increase in military spending this year and then coming down over the next two years after that, this adds to a body of evidence that that perhaps now is not the case. Laila? HARRAK:  Clare Sebastian reporting in London, thank you so much.
 
Still ahead, protests in the capital of Niger as other nations try to exert influence on the African continent. We'll have a report.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:40:00]
 
HARRAK:  Regional leaders appear to be holding off, at least for now, on their threat to send troops into Niger to restore the ousted president to power. Reuters reports the Economic Community of West African States is moving toward sending a group to negotiate instead. But the coup leaders have shown no desire to talk so far.
 
Well, the move comes amid anti-French protests in Niger's capital. France is supporting the ousted president, Mohamed Bazoum, but some protesters have called for Russia to help them drive French troops out of the country.
 
CNN's Jim Bittermann is standing by live outside the French capital. Jim, good morning.
 
There are mounting concerns over the deteriorating health of the deposed president, Bazoum. What has the Elysee's reaction been so far? Are there mediation efforts under way for President Bazoum to be released?
 
JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, yes. In fact, they would like to see civilian release. They would like to see civilian authority restored in Niger. And for no other reason, they've got 1,200 or 1,500 troops there on the ground and they would like to continue their operations, their anti-terrorist operations that they've been conducting now over a decade in the region.
 
In any case, they very much would like to see the ECOWAS take the lead on this and basically restore Bazoum to power.
 
Now, things are deteriorating for Bazoum. As you indicated, the ex- president, in fact, is being held, according to reports, in the basement of the presidential palace. He's being deprived of clean water despite the heat and medicines. Although there was one report yesterday that a doctor did get in to see the former president. No verification of that, however.
 
And now we have this ECOWAS delegation once again trying to make contact between ECOWAS and the coup leaders. They've tried it before without success. So, I think that's exactly where things stand this morning.
 
And for the French, it's a very difficult situation. Basically, they've had troops in the region for the last ten years. They had at many as 5,000 troops there that reduced the numbers over the years, especially in the last three years because there have been three successive military coups in Burkina Faso and Mali and now in Niger. And each of those new incoming regimes have basically told the French to leave.
 
So, they're under mandate and have reduced the troops to 1,500 in Niger, nut now Niger looks like it may also want to kick out the French troops.
 
HARRAK:  Jim, the protests, anti-French protests and also anti-ECOWAS protests, they are ongoing. There's been no letup. Are the French surprised by how intense they are?
 
BITTERMANN:  I think to some extent, yes. Because I think the French view of this is that they have been trying to find terrorism and help the government fight terrorism. They originally went into Mali ten years ago at the request of the Mali government to help fight the jihadists in that region of Africa, which they call the Sahel, which is a band of countries straight across Africa. And they had as many as 5,000 troops there at one point.
 
But, in fact gradually, the French troops have been resented. They've been viewed as being part of a neo-colonialist kind of effort by the French, which, of course, the French deny. But it puts them in a very difficult position. And if this new regime in Niger comes to power for real and the ex-president is not restored, then they're probably going to have no other choice but to pull those troops out.
 
HARRAK:  Jim Bittermann reporting in Paris, thank you so much.
 
Next, we shift our attention to Ecuador. That country's government is sending thousands of military and police officers to take control of a prison zone. It comes days after anti-corruption presidential candidate Fernando Villavicencio was shot and killed in the capital.
 <br>[03:45:04]
 
CNN's Raphael Romo is in Quito with the latest.
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  As part of the state of emergency declared by President Guillermo Lasso after the assassination of Presidential Candidate Fernando Villavicencio, security forces raided a prison on Saturday early in the morning. Officials said the purpose of the deployment was to establish control over weapons, ammunition and explosives within the prison as part of the operation and the leader of a local drug gang was transferred to another prison.
 
Also Saturday, the coalition of Fernando Villavicencio, the murdered candidate, chose a replacement to run in the August 20th election. It will be his running mate, Andrea Gonzalez Nader. In a CNN exclusive, she told us she knew Villavicencio and herself were at great risk but never imagined she would be in this position only a week before the election. She also told me the international community should realize that drug trafficking and organized crime are not solely Ecuador's problems, an effect that countries need to work together to find a solution.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDREA GONZALEZ NADER, ECUADORIAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  You never have enough time to process something so shocking and so stubborn as the assassination of a presidential candidate, such level of violence, and so soon, so close to the presidential elections. I think this is a disturbing moment for the whole region and eventually for the world's democracy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMO:  In another development, the widow of Fernando Villavicencio says she blames the state for her husband's murder and demanded answers as to why it happened. Veronica Sarauz made the accusation at a press conference Saturday here in Quito.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VERONICA SARAUZ, WIDOW OF FERNANDO VILLAVICENCIO:  They did not protect him as they should have protected him. The state was in charge of Fernando's security. The state is directly responsible for the murder of my husband, Fernando Villavicencio. The state still has to give many answers about what happened. His personal guards did not do their job. I do not want to think that they sold my husband to be murdered in this infamous way.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMO:  A presidential debate that's supposed to happen Sunday night, at least two of the seven remaining candidates said the debate and even the election itself the following Sunday should be delayed. But electoral officials say everything will go on as planned.
 
Rafael Romo, CNN, Quito, Ecuador.
 
HARRAK:  And in the coming hours, Argentines will begin voting in an open primary that will be a test of support for the government ahead of October's general election. Voters will be picking the final candidates for that general ballot and the results on Sunday could be a pointer as to how that race might play out.
 
Well, this year the ruling peronist coalition faces a strong challenge from the conservative opposition as the country battles triple-digit inflation and rising poverty.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
HARRAK:  For the first time in team history, Australia have reached the semifinals of the women's world cup, edging out France in a nail- biting penalty shootout. The tournament co-hosts will now face England, who also advanced after a comeback win against Colombia.
 
CNN's Patrick Snell has the details.
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN WORLD SPORT:  So, now we now the four countries that will contest the semifinals in Australia and New Zealand on Friday, it was Sweden and Spain booking their spots there, on Saturday, it was all about the co-hosts Australia and the amazing storyline the Matildas continue to tell.
 
It was 0-0 after 120 minutes and that's when the drama began. Aussie keeper Mackenzie Arnold making a total of four saves, twice she would thwart Kenza Dali, who gets to retake her original penalty after Arnold has moved off her line. Dali goes again. It matters not, though, because it's saved again.
 
The two countries still level after 18 kicks, would you believe, and then a really crucial pivotal moment as the French teen, Vickie Becho, striking the post, a really tough moment for the 19-year-old player.
 
And then comes the moment of the match, the all-important to decide, the 20th spot kick and all the focus now on Courtney Vine, who somehow keeps her calm, playing in her very first World Cup, nerves of steel. And she makes no mistake from 12 yards out to seal her place in history, her country's place in history as well. A winning kick, sending the capacity crowd into joy, unconfined heartbreak for the French, history and hysteria unconfined for the Aussies, who win an amazing shootout 7-6.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACKENZIE ARNOLD, AUSTRALIA GOALKEEPER:  Yes. Obviously, I was incredibly disappointed and I could have won the game for the girls and to miss it. But the way they rallied around me and just kept me in it, you know, at the end of the day, it's my job to keep the ball out of the net and thankfully I could do that. But, yes, honestly, we all do it for each other at the end and they all had my back 100 percent.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SNELL:  High drama indeed. Well, the Australians will take on England in the semifinals on Wednesday. The Lionesses had a tough battle with Colombia. But Alessia Russo in the right place at the right time, following a deflection, she finishes very well indeed right across Catalina Perez. But the game winner, 2-1, the final score, England win it, heartbreak for Colombia. (INAUDIBLE) gave it everything in getting to the last eight but it is the English National Team who advance.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALESSIA RUSSO, ENGLAND FORWARD:  Obviously, I'm so excited to be in the semifinals. I think it was another real tough test tonight. I think ever since the first game, it's been such a high standard but that's exactly what you want. But, yes, we're really excited to be in the semifinals and keep the dream alive.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SNELL:  So, the semis are now set. The confirmation Spain taking on Sweden in the opener on Tuesday, while Sydney will be the place to be on Wednesday when Australia hosts England.
 
Australia hoping to be the second host to win the World Cup, the other was the United States back in 1999.
 
And with that, it's right back to you.
 
HARRAK:  Our thanks to Patrick Snell for that.
 
He is known as Mr. W by his students. And now, Atlanta Braves fans are doing their homework about Pitcher Allan Winans.
 <br>[03:55:04]
 
He tossed seven shutout innings in the Braves' 21-3 win against the former team, the New York Mets. This was his first MLB win in just the second appearance in the big leagues. The Braves say Winans supplements his Minor League salary in the off-season by working as a substitute teacher in his native Bakersfield, California.
 
Finally, one of nature's most stunning light displays peaks this weekend. The Perseid meteor shower will be easy to see with only 10 percent of a crescent moon illuminated. The northern hemisphere is the best place for viewing and a few hours before dawn is the best time. NASA says you could see more than 50 meteors an hour streak across the sky.
 
And the Webb Space Telescope has given scientists new insights about the most distant star ever detected. This is Earendel. It's about 28 billion light years away, a million times brighter than the sun and twice as hot. The light the telescope saw from the star was emitted within the first billion years of the universe.
 
By the way, the universe is thought to be about 13.8 billion years old. And scientists say Earendel likely has a companion star nearby.
 
I'm Laila Harrak. Do stick around. I'll be back with more CNN Newsroom after a quick break. See you then.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:00:00]