Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Ukraine Claims It Destroyed Russian Naval Vessel In Crimea; Harvard Faculty Appeal To University Board To Address Crisis; Kanye West Issues Apology To Jewish Community On Instagram; Apple Watch Ban Takes Effect Amid Patent Dispute. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired December 26, 2023 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:30:00]
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER: These drones have been heavily relied upon by the Russian armed forces throughout the war in Ukraine. 
 
Of course, this is one of the key driving factors behind Ukraine's continued pressure for the support when it comes to bolstering its air defense system. 
 
And according to the U.S. military, typically carries a crew of about 87. Can transport more than 200 troops. 
 
Now, the Ukrainian military and armed forces as well as President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has welcome to this as a sign of progress for the Ukrainian military. 
 
Zelenskyy congratulated his troops on the strike earlier today. And we received this statement, or rather had this statement issued by a spokesperson for the Ukrainian Air Force. 
 
Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
YURII IHNAT, SPOKESMAN, UKRAINE AIR FORCE COMMAND (through translation: This is such a powerful event for us. In fact, we destroyed both the ship and the occupiers, through well-coordinated actions. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BASHIR: Now, earlier today, the Kremlin issued a statement saying that Russia's defense minister, Sergei Shoigu, had reported the incident to President Vladimir Putin. 
 
According to Shoigu, the attack took place overnight. He acknowledged this attempt was carried out by the Ukrainian armed forces, he says, using guided missiles for that attack. 
 
And of course, as we've heard from President Zelenskyy, he has reiterated that Ukraine will continue to push back and push forward with its counteroffensive. In his message earlier today, he said, "There will be no place of peace for occupying forces in Ukraine." 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: All right, Nada, thank you for that report. 
 
I want to bring in retired Air Force colonel, Cedric Leighton, to talk a little bit more about this. 
 
Certainly symbolic anytime you see Ukraine take on these ships near Crimea, which they've done time and again now, Cedric. How strategic is this in terms of the value this provides in the war? 
 
COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Yes, Brianna, this is a significant propaganda victory for the Ukrainians. And from a strategic standpoint, what it does is it at least puts at risk the supply chains that the Russians have. 
 
So, in this particular case, if the reports are accurate, that drones were on board the ship, then it not only to get the ship, but it also took out a number of drones. Not sure exactly how many drones yet. 
 
But the capacity of this ship is around 10 main battle tanks. That's a pretty significant number of drones that could fit in a similar space. 
 
Given that particular fact, it is certainly a strategic importance that the Ukrainians were able to do this. And it also makes it very clear that the Russians are basically in a dangerous zone all over Crimea at this point. 
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN HOST: And, Cedric, do you think, just knowing what's going on here in America with the aid on the Hill, how it's all hung up there, there's this great debate over will there be any more aid to Ukraine, and if so, how much.
 
Do you think commanders on the ground feel added pressure on this to show some gains on the field in light of that? 
 
LEIGHTON: Definitely, Jessica. I think if you are a Ukrainian commander, if you want to have as many successes under your belt as you possibly can, at this point in time, you want to basically make it very clear to the U.S., lawmakers and to Western Europe, to their counterparts in western Europe, that this is a good investment for them to make. 
 
Not only is it going to box up the Russian military, if the Ukrainians are able to attack using Western weapons, but it is also going to prove that the Ukrainian forces are capable of using these weapons in a highly effective manner. 
 
They've certainly proved that in this particular case. 
 
KEILAR: What do you think about this "New York Times" report that Putin may be open to a ceasefire, but one that would preserve Russian gains, and very importantly, allow him to declare victory? 
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, Brianna, I don't think that President Zelenskyy, on the Ukrainian side, is going to entertain such an offer at this point in time. 
 
It could be something that the Russians are doing to, in essence, say, hey, let's pause everything where we are right now. Because it does give the Russians certain advantages. 
 
They would control about 20 percent of Ukraine's territory, if things were frozen in place. 
 
And it would also allow them to regroup and resupply, do the kinds of things that they would need to do in order to not only maintain that territory but also to use that territory as a potential staging area for future operations. 
 
I don't think it would be an offer of a permanent ceasefire at this particular point in time. 
 
But it does it also potentially show there's some weaknesses in the Russian military strategy right now. And that could be the reason that Vladimir Putin wants a pause. If these reports are accurate. 
 
DEAN: I guess time will tell. 
 
Colonel, Cedric Leighton, thanks so much. Always good to see you. 
 
Let's turn now to some of the other headlines that we are watching this hour. 
 <br>[13:35:02]
 
Jailed Russian opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, is speaking out for the first time since he disappeared. Moved to a remote prison outpost in Siberia known as the Polar Wolf. 
 
In a social media post, Navalny describing the 20-day journey from the jail near Moscow as exhausting, but he says he's fine. A spokesperson for Navalny says his health is not worse than it was before the transfer. 
 
He's serving a 19-year sentence on charges of extremism, charges that he denies, and the U.S. government has called baseless. 
 
Back here in the U.S., home prices continued to rise in October, hitting a new record high and marking the ninth consecutive month of increases. All of it happening, even as those mortgage rates linger above 7 percent. 
 
Part of the reason prices have climbed is because of stubbornly low inventory. The Midwest and the northeast regions are said to be the fastest-growing markets in the country. 
 
And it's something to celebrate, I did Zoo Atlanta. A baby southern white rhino -- look at that -- born on Christmas Eve. The first of its kind to be born at the zoo. 
 
The species is considered near threatened, and its population is declining. But we're told that the calf is healthy and being well cared for by its mother, Kiazi. We don't know the baby's name just yet. 
 
KEILAR: So cute. 
 
DEAN: I know. So little and cute. 
 
Well, the pressure is mounting at Harvard University after its president was accused of plagiarism, while also being criticized over her handling of anti-Semitism on campus. 
 
Some faculty members just had a meeting with top school officials and we are going to tell you what they discussed. 
 
KEILAR: Plus, rapper, Ye, also known as Kanye West, issuing an apology to the Jewish community. This comes more than a year after his anti- Semitic rants on social media. We'll have much more on his apology ahead on CNN NEWS CENTRAL. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:40:44]
 
KEILAR: The pressure is mounting against Harvard's first black female president and the growing crises surrounding her, that include anger over clogging handling of anti-Semitism on campus and now an ongoing plagiarism scandal where she is caught in the middle. 
 
The school has until this Friday to respond to a request from the House of Representatives for several documents concerning the latter. 
 
This, as Harvard has seen a decrease in early admission applications this year. 
 
DEAN: Some faculty members have even appealed the school's normally secretive board to address their concerns about all of this. 
 
CNN's Danny Freeman is here now for more on the behind-the-scenes maneuvering. 
 
Danny, of which I'm sure there's a lot of that here. Did the appeal include discussions about removing the president? 
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Jessica, according to faculty members who were at the meeting who spoke to CNN, there were no overt calls or discussions about President Gay resigning. 
 
But this headline from "The New York Times," from the "Harvard Crimson," and now from CNN, it really just underscores another challenging week to add on to a number of challenging weeks that have faced not only the university, but also president. 
 
This latest chapter actually concerns a meeting that happened back last Tuesday, just as actually some those plagiarism allegations were continuing to rise to the forefront. 
 
The meeting was between, as far as we understand, some Harvard faculty members and also members of the Harvard Corporation, which is the main governing board for the university. 
 
Now "The New York Times" characterized the meeting as a grilling of the corporation members. But one faculty member who was actually at the meeting told CNN that it was "cordial and frank." 
 
Jeff Flier is the former dean of the Harvard Medical School. He told CNN that he said to the members, you need to be more out front of this, meaning recent controversies. 
 
And he continued, telling CNN, he said, "If people are saying the university is making mistakes, they are talking about you." He was referring to the Harvard Corporation members. 
 
Now, Jessica, Brianna, the other notable headline to come out of "The Times'" reporting of that meeting is that one corporation member allegedly said that the university needed "generational change." 
 
But people who were at the meeting told both "The Crimson" and CNN that that was a bit out of context. 
 
Jeff Flier, the member, or that faculty member we quoted earlier, he said the corporation members said, "Addressing ongoing concerns at Harvard University could take a generation." 
 
Again, as of now, there's still no movement publicly when it comes to any sign that the school will not stand by President Gay. She, at the moment, has the support of the board. But again, a challenging few weeks for sure. 
 
KEILAR: Yes. "The New York Times" reporting, Danny, "cordial and frank." That's not what they're reporting but I will harken back to you describing what can be "cordial and frank" here? 
 
But "The New York Times" reporting that the board members experienced tension between them despite be cordial and frank nature of the meeting. 
 
FREEMAN: That's right, Brianna. "The Times" reported that behind the scenes there are signs of tension between those members of the all- powerful and rather secretive board. Saying that some have conceded there is a need to quell the, quote, "billowing storms." 
 
Notably, this has not really spilled out into the public light at this point. That is why we reiterate publicly that the university is still standing behind President Gay.
 
And I will say it will -- in fact, I was on campus last week and it does still seem at this point that the bulk of the criticism facing Gay is still centered on that congressional testimony earlier in the month. Not so much at this point the plagiarism allegations. 
 
DEAN: There's still so much discussion about that.
 
All right, Danny Freeman, for us. Thanks so much for walking us through that. Ye, the rapper also known as Kanye West, is making news on social
 
 media today with a high-profile apology to the Jewish community, saying he did not mean to cause offense. 
 
KEILAR: Yes. The post was written notably in Hebrew on Instagram. Unclear what prompted this though. 
 
But Ye has a long history of anti-Semitic statements, which is probably why you are familiar with some of them. That includes openly praising Hitler during an interview last year. 
 
We have CNN's Elizabeth Wagmeister joining us for this. 
 
Elizabeth, we've heard apologies from Ye before, which is probably why a lot of people hearing this are skeptical. What makes this one different? 
 
ELIZABETH WAGMEISTER, CNN ENTERTAINMENT CORRESPONDENT: I think it's too soon to tell what makes this apology different. This is certainly the most outward apology that we've seen from Kanye.
 <br>[13:45:09]
 
In the past, he said things such as, "I say anti-Semitic things but Adidas can't drop me." Of course, we all know that Adidas did ultimately drop him. 
 
As you know, Kanye has a long history of well-documented anti-Semitic commentary. As you said, he openly praised Hitler. We, here at CNN, it had reporting that Kanye has a long history of praising Hitler in his business. 
 
So I think it's too soon to tell. But we do need to point out that just a few weeks ago at a listening party for Kanye's upcoming album, he went on an anti-Semitic tirade there. 
 
So this is definitely in stark contrast to the past, and I think it's too soon to tell. 
 
DEAN: Interesting that he has an upcoming album. 
 
KEILAR: You don't say? 
 
WAGMEISTER: You don't say, Jessica.
 
DEAN: Worth noting. 
 
What's the reaction, though, been to the apology so far, Elizabeth? 
 
WAGMEISTER: The reaction is exactly what you just said. It is very interesting that there is an album coming up. 
 
As I said, there have been various listening parties for this upcoming album. So Kanye has been promoting this music. It will be the first album since all the fallout with his career due to his anti-Semitic behavior. We also do have a statement today from the ADL. So that is some strong
 
 reaction there. 
 
Let me read part of it to you. 
 
They say, quote, "After causing untold damage by using his fast influence and platform to poison countless minds with vicious anti- Semitism and hate, an apology in Hebrew might be the first step on a long journey towards making amends to the Jewish community, and all those who he has hurt." 
 
They don't want to say that, 'Ultimately, actions speak louder than words," as I said, but that they do welcome this and initial post. 
 
Now we also have to point out that Kanye's words have caused a lot of damage. Last year, after he first posted that he was going to go Death Con 3 on the Jewish community, we then saw there were posters hung on the 405 Freeway in Los Angeles that said, "Kanye was right about the Jews." 
 
So a lot of the damage has already been done. We have to keep an eye on Kanye to see what happens from here. 
 
KEILAR: All right, Elizabeth, thank you for that report. 
 
Still ahead, Apple Watches pulled from store shelves after a government ban takes effect. We are going to tell you what is behind it after a quick break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:51:35]
 
DEAN: Well, if you did not get a new Apple Watch for Christmas, maybe you wanted to buy one today, you are probably out of luck. 
 
Apple is now banned from selling them. And that's because of a ruling by the U.S. International Trade Commission over a patent disagreement. President Biden could have overruled the decision but did not. 
 
So Apple is now taking matters into its own hands with an appeal. 
 
KEILAR: We have CNN's Rahel Solomon joining us now for this. 
 
Rahel, Apple filed an appeal not too long ago. We will have more on that in a moment. But which watches are impacted and tell us why this is happening? 
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Good afternoon, ladies. This is the Series 9 and the Ultra 2. So those are the newer models of the Apple Watch. 
 
If you go to an Apple store, you likely won't see it there. You certainly won't see it online. I just checked myself not too long ago. It says "currently unavailable." What this really focuses on, the technology that Apple uses in its
 
 watches, its newer watches, to read blood oxygen levels, a light-based technology. And it's a technology that Masimo, a California-based company, says is rightfully theirs. It is covered by their patent. 
 
So this is an issue that Masimo and Apple have sort of been in dispute over for the last few years. Fast forward, guys, to about October and that's when the U.S. International Trade Commission essentially sided with Masimo. 
 
It gave sort of 60 days of review period, which is standard, which technically, the Biden administration could have sort of intervened, could have vetoed the ruling, but it did not. So it takes effect today. 
 
Again, it will affect those two watch models, the Series 9 and the Ultra 2. Apple cannot sell those models. They cannot import those models. 
 
If you are looking for them, if you are a consumer and looking for them and you have your heart set on them, you are not completely out of luck. You can perhaps find them at a retailer that sells Apple Watch products. 
 
Because if a retailer has it on their shelves, already has it in inventory, then they can actually sell it. They just can't really stock it. They can't sort of import it again. So that is the sort of issue here. 
 
But as you said, guys, Apple said this isn't over until it's over and we are appealing. 
 
DEAN: So, Rahel, what more are they saying about the appeal? What's their case?
 
SOLOMON: Yes. Their case is basically they disagree with the whole premise of the ruling. They disagree -- they put out in a statement that they spent years, their team spent years, they outlined the different groups researching and developing different features for the Apple Watch. 
 
They are saying they will now take every legal measure they can to try to get the issue remedied. 
 
I should say the U.S. trade rep put out a statement today saying they had carefully considered it and carefully consulted with different entities. Then they decided to not intervene here. The decision became final December 26, 2023. Today. 
 
So whether this is truly final, like the U.S. trade rep office says, or whether it is pending the appeal like Apple says it's going to do, then there might be a different outcome there. Only time will tell. 
 
DEAN: We will see. 
 
I saw what you did there. Clever. (LAUGHTER)
 
DEAN: Rahel Solomon for us. 
 
She's got the joke, too! All right.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
DEAN: Rahel, thanks so much.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
DEAN: Well, coming up, we will take you live to the southern border where local officials say the surging migrant crisis there is overwhelming resources. What they are doing about it. That is ahead on CNN NEWS CENTRAL. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
DEAN: The U.S. strikes back after an attack by a militant group in Iraq leaves three Americans injured. President Biden orders airstrikes on that group Monday night. 
 
One of the top allies to Israel's prime minister visits Washington. Can he bridge the divide between the two nations over how Israel is prosecuting the war as outrage over the death toll in Gaza grows. 
 <br>[13:59:53]
 
KEILAR: "And no end in sight" -- that's how a relief agency describes the crisis at the U.S.-Mexico border as they struggle to cope with thousands of migrants crossing, and Congress can't agree on a plan. 
 
We are following these major developing stories and many more, all coming in, right here to CNN NEWS CENTRAL.