Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Pittsburgh Synagogue Shooting Suspect Found Eligible For Death Penalty By Jury; Presidents Of Finland And U.S. Hold Joint Press Conference. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired July 13, 2023 - 10:30:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: All right. We have some breaking news for you. Just into CNN, the jury in the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting trial has reached a verdict on the question of whether the convicted gunman is eligible for the death penalty.
 
Let's get right to CNN's Danny Freeman. He is outside Pittsburgh. Danny, can you tell us what the verdict is in the first phase -- a first of the sentencing phase?
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Sara, in the past 20 minutes or so, the jury came in, the judge read the verdict, and the -- and when it comes to this first part of the eligibility phase, Bowers -- Robert Bowers, 50-year-old, he is determined to be eligible to face the death penalty, that was the verdict that was handed down by this jury. It was unanimous.
 
And I want to just breakdown exactly what we're talking about here. Normally, this whole sentencing phase is done in one part, because we've already seen that Robert Bowers was convicted of killing all those 11 congregants in the Tree of Life synagogue back in 2018, that happened a couple of weeks ago.
 
Normally, this sentencing phase though, as I said though, takes one part. But the defense petitioned to have it split up into two parts, which is an eligibility phase and then a sentence selection phase. Well, this eligibility phase was all about three things, it was all about age. Is Robert Bowers over the age of 18, thus making him eligible for the death penalty? Were there aggravating factors in the shooting? Basically, did he kill someone who was either develop mentally challenged or elderly or other aggravating factors like that?
 
And then the final part of this eligibility phase was this question of intent. Now, the defense was not going to contest ever that Robert Bowers was not over 18 years old. And the defense wasn't even going to contest that Robert Bowers committed crimes that were aggravating, that had these aggravating factors. They aimed, try and poke holes in this question of intent, and they did it by calling a number of witnesses over the past 11 days or so. Specifically arguing that Bowers was delusional, and that he had abnormalities in his brain. And those are reasons why he potentially went into that synagogue to committed this atrocity. While the prosecution said, no way Bowers did not suffer from delusions at all. He just believes repugnant things. And at this point, it appears that the jury agreed with the prosecution.
 
So, now, Sara, we're going to be moving into the sentence selection phase. The jury has said that Bowers is eligible to receive the death penalty. Now, we're going to hear more likely victim impact statements, we're going to hear more witnesses to see whether or not the jury will ultimately decide to sentence Bowers to death. This trial, Sara, not over just yet. But again, five years in the making for this first part of the sentencing phase to be over at this point. Sara.
 
SIDNER: Many of us were there outside of the Tree of Life as this was all going down and it has impacted us and everyone in the country. The was antisemitic massacre for people who were prayerful inside that synagogue from many different parts of the city. Thank you so much Danny Freeman for that update.
 
And now we're going to send it over to Wolf Blitzer. He is in Vilnius, Lithuania. We are awaiting the president, meeting with his counterpart in Finland on this incredibly, important trip, a NATO Summit just ended there yesterday. Wolf, it's all on you, buddy.
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Thank you, Sara. We're standing by for remarks from the president of the United States as he wraps up this really consequential visit to Europe, this meeting with all the western allies. President Biden will return home later today after securing a stronger NATO alliance -- a much stronger NATO alliance. Very impressive achievement, indeed, with continued promises of support to Ukraine as Russia's war wages on, and it's been a brutal war.
 
Ukraine clearly wants to be admitted into NATO, and he president and other have said that will happen after, after this war. This morning, President Biden met with leaders of the Nordic countries. It was the first meeting since Finland was admitted to the NATO alliance, a very significant moment. Sweden's path of membership has also now been cleared now that Turkey supports Sweden's path to membership.
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
Let's discuss what's going on. These are historic, very significant developments with huge stakes for everyone involved. CNN's Nic Robertson and David Chalian are with us, along with CNN Military Analyst, Retired General Wesley Clark, the former NATO Supreme Allied Commander. General Clark, based on what we know so far, give us your assessment of how strong NATO is right now with the possibility that Ukraine will eventually become a full-scale member.
 
GEN. WESLEY CLARK (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST, SENIOR FELLOW, UCLA BURKLE CENTER, FORMER NATO SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER: Wolf, I think, the communique and the statements of both leaders of the summit show that Ukraine will eventually become a full-scale NATO member. I think it's our case of the glass being half full. I know that President Zelenskyy wanted more, I know the Ukrainian military wanted more out of this.
 
But nevertheless, I think it's a strong showing for NATO. President Biden and his team have done, I think, a really, really incredible job of leadership, balancing off requirements, and looking globally. It's a very impressive achievement on balance.
 
BLITZER: Yes, I think you make a very important point. Nic, NATO has now admitted Finland as member of NATO. It's on track to admit Sweden to the alliance as well. Finland's membership more than doubled the bloc's actual border with Russia. So, what are the global implications right now because Russia is clearly not happy about this dramatic expansion of NATO, especially along its border?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Yes, that's exactly what President Putin said that he didn't want to happen, and it's happened. And the unity of NATO if you hold, you know, a comparison between NATO and the other side of the border with Russia, Russia has cracks appearing.
 
You had the mutiny under Prigozhin, the mercenary boss just a few weeks ago. You have a top Russian general apparently, it seems, relieved of duties in Ukraine after criticizing the military leadership in Russia for the way they are fighting war. Don't have the reparation, don't have the ammunition, don't have the counter- artillery battery, all that sort of thing.
 
So, you really have this very strong juxtaposition. I think, there's also another very interesting, sort of, narrative that's going on here that perhaps wasn't quite intentional, but it emerge, that tension, obviously, where President Zelenskyy wanted more but didn't get it. Also, how upset President Biden and put him in a position where he can very well show and display to the world that he is not the one that's trying to push weapons into Ukraine. In fact, he is one of the voices that's perhaps slowing things up a little bit at NATO.
 
And when the United States is sending its top diplomats, Janet Yellen just a couple of days ago. Secretary Blinken right now meeting with his Chinese counterpart, was in China a month -- in the last month. This narrative that the United States is not forcing this war. That the United States is not trying to rush weapons into Ukraine, which is what Russia is saying, this narrative in the conversation with China is hugely important as the United States tries to build more support for its position with the global south and with China. And convince China to -- ensure economically because that's a way to cut Russia off from its war in Ukraine.
 
So, I think that that piece of the puzzle here is a very intriguing piece at a time when President Biden tries to deal with multiple threats around the world.
 
BLITZER: Yes, I think you make really points as well.
 
David Chalian, today's meeting in Helsinki, Finland, actually is happening in the same place where almost exactly five years ago, Then- President Trump met with the Russian President Putin. How significant is Biden's show of force right now with the Nordic leaders? How significant is it on what's going on? And a lot of us remember that Trump meeting with Putin in Helsinki where Trump actually sided with Putin and rejected what the U.S. intelligence community was saying about Russia's interference in the U.S. presidential election?
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR: Yes, Wolf, it's amazing to see the images coming out of Helsinki, some of the same rooms that we saw Trump and Putin in. And you see they're being used for a very different purpose here. The presidents obviously stepping up to the podium right now. I'm sure we want to listen to it.
 
BLITZER: All right. David, hold on. Hold on for a moment. It looks like they're walking in right now. Let's listen to the opening statement from the president.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: President of the Republic of Finland, Sauli Niinisto, and president of the United States, Joe Biden. We will begin with statements by the presidents.
 
SAULI NIINISTO, FINNISH PRESIDENT: Good afternoon. Excellent that we have this, kind of -- would be call in the castle. Plenty of you here. First of all, Joe, Mr. President, I want to thank you for visiting Finland.
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
We have had possibilities of meeting each other quite often during the -- 
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: I like it here even better.
 
NIINISTO: Yes. And, by the way, first time we met also in Helsinki. I was the speaker of parliament when you visited.
 
BIDEN: I remember.
 
NIINISTO: So, we have had lots of discussions during the last couple of years. I want to, once again, thank you for the strong support you have given all of the time.
 
BIDEN: It's my honor.
 
NIINISTO: And the new era in Finnish security policy has begun, and you will be one of those who wrote it to history. I also want to thank you for the Vilnius meeting, it was very touching to feel the unity between allies. And I think it was greatly created by you.
 
We had possibilities of discussing bilaterally. Today, I took up the negotiations of our defense cooperation agreement. We are going to continue our security discussion by that. And that is of vitally importance to Finland. In the same time also Sweden and Denmark are having similar discussions, and at the end, it seems that all of the five Nordic countries will have a bilateral agreement with USA.
 
Technology is one of the key words for the future. There are elements like artificial intelligence, quantum technology, sky technology. All that is leading our way to the future, and we have to make sure that it's leading our way in a very secure way, and that demands responsibility of those who know how and that is why it is very important to coordinate and to cooperate with our knowledge and resources forward in this sector.
 
We also had discussion on our neighbor, and I think that we both share similar views. The war in Ukraine was also discussed. We both see that we will continue support to Ukraine, which is defending not only ourselves, but also all of the values we represent in the western World.
 
We also had a meeting with the Nordic family. It is a tradition which start during President Obama's time and it has been a very valuable tool for us to get even better understand each other. Security and technology, they're also discussed there. And a lot of time and thoughts represented on environmental issues. So, once again, it has been great to have you here.
 
BIDEN: Well, thank you, Mr. President. It's been great to be here. Look, it is an honor be here with you and our other Nordic friends. We just finished -- I would suggest, very productive U.S.-Nordic Leaders' Summit on the heels of the historic NATO Summit in Vilnius and where Finland took its place at the table as our newest ally. We have always been friends with the newest official ally and member of NATO.
 
I also want to thank Minister Christensen of Sweden who will soon be joining NATO, and Prime Minister Store of Norway, he -- we've had a great relationship, and Frederiksen of Denmark, and the ministry of (INAUDIBLE) daughter of Ireland. Daughter of Ireland, you can tell us before I start thinking of thinking of home. The daughter of Iceland.
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
And I want to say, I think, we've had a very productive summit. We discussed, Mr. President, where we stand at an inflection point in history where the decisions we make now are going to determine the course of the history for the next four, five, or six decades. And this week, we affirmed how Finland and the United States together, together with allies and partners are working in lockstep to set us on a stronger, safer, and more secure path. Not just for Europe, not just for NATO, but for the world.
 
In Vilnius, NATO met with 33 nations for the first -- 31 nations for the first time. We showed the world that our alliance is more united than ever. And soon, it'll be 32 allies, thanks to the agreement with Turkey to move Sweden's accession (ph) protocols forward. And as capable partners and committed democracy, both Finland and Sweden are going to add significantly to the strength, security and unanimity of NATO. And a stronger NATO makes the entire world stronger.
 
Mr. President, as your ally, we want the people of Finland to know, the United States is committed to Finland, committed to NATO, and those commitments are rock solid. That we will defend every inch of NATO territory, and that includes Finland, obviously. Second, over the past week, we affirmed our unwavering support for the brave people of Ukraine as they defend their country against Russia's brutal and inhumane attacks. Our allies and partners around the world understand that this fight is not only a fight for the future of Ukraine, it's about sovereignty, security and freedom itself. I want you to think about what would happen if we didn't do anything. What is likely to happen in the rest of Europe if we did nothing?
 
So, this week, NATO has officially elevated our relationship with Ukraine. Allies also agreed to lift the membership action plan that's usually required before you could be admitted and -- from Ukraine. And it's created a path and membership for Ukraine as it continues to make progress on the necessary democratic and security reforms required of every NATO member.
 
We also made clear to President Zelenskyy that we are not waiting for NATO membership to be finalized to commit to a long-term security of Ukraine. The leaders of the G7, together, issued a new joint declaration of support for Ukraine. The declaration, I was glad to see the Nordic nations immediately welcomed to support it. It's going to launch a process open to any nation to negotiate bilateral security agreements with Ukraine until they're officially members of NATO. It will not only ensure that Ukraine can defend itself today, but it will deter future aggressions well with the capable force across and land, air and sea from their friends.
 
And finally, at every stop of the -- in every summary (ph) on this trip, we focus on using the power of partnership to take on the challenges that matter most to peoples' lives in our countries. In the United Kingdom, we brought together public and private philanthropic partners to discuss ways to unlike nearly trillions of private dollars and finance to fight climate change.
 
In Lithuania, NATO allies met and E.U., and our pro -- our Indo- Pacific partners to continue advancing our work on terrorism, cyber threats, resilience and so much more. And here in Finland, at our U.S.-Nordic Leaders' Summit, we affirmed our commitment to stand together. Power to power clean energy transition, to preserve regional security, to promote democratic values, and to pioneer the technologies of the future from quantum computing to advance communication systems so we did it together.
 
Mr. President, at this critical moment in history, this inflection point, the world is watching to see where we do the hard work, it matters to forge a better future. Will we stand together? We will stand with one another? Will we stay committed to our course? This week, Finland and the United State and our allies and partners says a resounding loud yes. Yes, we will step up. Yes, we will stand together. And yes, we'll keeping working toward a stronger and safer and more secure world.
 
So, Mr. President, thank you again, for having me here. As partners, friends and allies, I look forward to our work together in the years ahead. And it's been a real pleasure getting to know you even better. Thank you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Thank you. Now we have time for questions.
 
NIINISTO: Shall we start with Yle (ph) -- you.
 
YLE (PH), PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE: Yle (ph) Public Broadcasting Service. My question is for Mr. -- President Biden. The political volatility of U.S. remains a big worry for European partners.
 <br>[10:50:00]
 
Meanwhile, back in Washington, a bipartisan group of senators has repeatedly failed to pass through senate that would prevent the U.S. presidents in the future from withdrawing from NATO without Senate's approval. What actions -- 
 
BIDEN: I'm sorry. Repeat that one, I'm sorry. I didn't hear the last part of your question.
 
YLE (PH): In Washington, a bipartisan group of senators has repeatedly failed to pass through Senate a law that would prevent future U.S. presidents from withdrawing from NATO without Senate's approval. What actions will you take to ensure Finland that the U.S. will remain a reliable NATO partner for decades to come?
 
BIDEN: I absolutely guarantee it, there is no question. There is overwhelming support from the American people, there's overwhelming support from the members of Congress, both House and the Senate. And both parties, notwithstanding the fact there's some extreme elements of one party. We will stand together. The American people are known since the end of World War II and the formation of NATO that our security rests in the unanimity among European and transatlantic partner, us. And so, this is -- you know, no one can guarantee the future, but this is the best bet anyone can make.
 
YLE (PH): And my second question, on the note that to Mr. President Niinisto, hearing this answer that no one can guarantee a future, are you worried that the political instability in the U.S. will cause issues in the alliance in the future?
 
BIDEN: Let me be clear, I didn't say we didn't guarantee -- we couldn't guarantee the future. You can't tell me whether you're going to be able to go home tonight. No one can be sure what they're going to do. I'm saying as sure as anything can possibly be said about American foreign policy, we will stay connected to NATO. Connected to NATO beginning, middle, and end we're a transatlantic partnership, that's what I've said.
 
NIINISTO: It seems that the president has answered your problems. But I have to tell you that during this process, I met approximately -- President, many times but I would say about 50 people from Congress and Senate, and I think the message was quite clear, quite united. And I have no reason to doubt about USA policies in the future.
 
BIDEN: Let me say one more thing. We learned a hard lesson. Peace and security in Europe is essential to U.S. security and peace. The idea that there could be conflict in Europe among our friends, and us not engaged, has never happened in modern history, that's why we're standing together.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Next question, President Biden.
 
BIDEN: Oh, I have to call on somebody. I'm Sorry. "Wall Street Journal", Andrew.
 
ANDREW, "WALL STREET JOURNAL" REPORTER: Thank you, Mr. President. You've said that Ukraine shouldn't enter NATO until after the war is over. Are you concerned at all that those comments could motivate Putin to keep the war going or discourage him from entering peace negotiations? And is there a serious risk that this war could drag on for years? And do you see any path toward the war ending with Putin still in power?
 
BIDEN: First of all, no one can join NATO while a war is going on, where a NATO nation is being attacked, because that guarantees that we're in a war, and we're in a third world war. So, that is not about whether or not they should or shouldn't join, it's about when they can join. And they will join NATO. The issue of whether or not this is going to keep Putin from continuing to fight, the answer is Putin has already lost the war. Putin has real a problem. How does he move from here? What does he do?
 
And so, the idea that there's going to be what vehicle is used, he could end the war tomorrow. He could just say, "I'm out." But what agreement is ultimately reached depends upon Putin and what he decides to do. But there is no possibility of him winning the war in Ukraine. He's already lost that war. Imagine if -- even if -- anyway, he's already lost that war.
 
ANDREW: Just on the question of concern of it going on for years, is there a possibility that there's a stalemate and has become -- 
 
BIDEN: I'm sorry?
 
ANDREW: The question of whether the war could go on for years, is there a possibility there's a stalemate that it could continue for quite some time?
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
BIDEN: Well, I don't think the war could go on for years for two reasons. Number one, I don't think that Russia could maintain a war forever. Number one in terms of their resources and capacity. Number two, I think that there is going to be a circumstance where eventually President Putin is going to decide it's not in the interest of Russia economically, politically, or otherwise to continue this war.
 
But I can't predict exactly how that happens. My hope is, and my expectation is, you'll see that Ukraine makes a significant progressive on their offensive and that it generates in a negotiated settlement somewhere along the line.
 
ANDREW: Can I have a question for the Finnish president? But I would re-remiss if I didn't raise my colleague, Evan Gershkovich, who has been in prison for more than 100 days. I just wondered if you had an update on the process for trying to get him out of prison and if you're serious about prisoner exchange?
 
BIDEN: I am serious about prisoner exchange. I'm serious about it figuring out how we can to free Americans being illegally held in Russia or anywhere else for that matter. And that process is under way.
 
ANDREW: [Nonaudible question].
 
NIINISTO: Like I told, we are discussing on DCA, the Defense Cooperation Agreement. And it has a lot of elements, they are still open. But we are open on negotiations and I know that our counter- parties are also very open. So, let us see.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Next question goes to President Niinisto. Please
 
NIINISTO: Yes, it's (INAUDIBLE), Elina (ph) (INAUDIBLE).
 
ELINA (PH): Thank you, Mr. President. And my question is for Mr. President Biden, or should I just say President Biden? You have repeatedly talked about Finlandization becoming NATO-ization of Finland. Now, based on your -- 
 
BIDEN: Sorry, what nation?
 
ELINA (PH): You have repeatedly talked about Finlandization -- 
 
BIDEN: Oh, I see.
 
ELINA (PH): -- becoming NATO-ization of Finland. Based on your long experience, how does that change Finland's place in world?
 
BIDEN: Well, first of all, the context in which I said that was that the gentleman who occupies a seat on the other side of your border in Moscow said he wanted -- I said, he wanted the Finlandization of NATO as was more likely the NATO-ization of Finland. That's what -- that's the context in which that was said. And -- what was the second part of your question?
 
ELINA (PH): I asked how has Finland's position in the world changed during -- 
 
BIDEN: Look -- 
 
ELINA (PH): -- this NATO membership process?
 
BIDEN: -- Finland's already a strong, vibrant nation. I think what Finland's joining NATO does, and Sweden as well, when all the Nordic countries are all members of NATO, it just makes the world safer. It significantly increases the prospect that there is less likely to be war. We should -- we're deadly earnest about the notion, we'll defend every single inch of NATO territory. And now, we're going to -- on our way of getting to 32 NATO nations, that's a significant commitment.
 
And so, the likelihood of any nation voluntary decided they're going to attack one of the nations or Finland is highly unlikely. And so -- but if it -- if a word to, they'll understand they're not just attacking Finland, they're attacking 31 other countries.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Next question, President Biden, please.
 
BIDEN: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't get it. So, Arlette from CNN.
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Thank you, Mr. President. We've seen more disarray with Russian generals, most recently with the firing of a general who criticized the defense ministry, this following that rebellion by Prigozhin. Does this raise any new concerns about Putin potentially doing more drastic things regarding Ukraine, like, nuclear weapons or potentially against the U.S., like election interference?
 
BIDEN: Well, first of all, they already interfered in American elections. So, that would not be anything new, they did that last time they tried. But with regard to -- I don't think there's any real prospect -- we'll never know, of Putin using nuclear weapons. Not only has the west, but China and the rest of the world has said that don't go there. Don't go there.
 <br>[11:00:00]