Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: TikTok To Set Default One-Hour Limit For Users Under 18; The Future Of Travel

Aired March 03, 2023 - 04:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up, lovely people? It`s your boy Coy ready to shine bright with you this first Friday of March. Friday`s rock.
 
But before we get into the weekend, let`s make a strong end to the week. We are fueled up and ready to rock it out with you right here on CNN 10, the 
 
 best 10 minutes in news.
 
We`re going to start today with what I call the scroll that squashes your goals, spending too much time on social media. And one social media app 
 
 TikTok is looking to put a lockdown on all you`re looking around on their wildly popular platform.
 
On Wednesday, TikTok announced that users under 18 years of age will have their accounts locked after one hour of screen time on the app each day. In 
 
 order to continue, users are going to have to enter a password.
 
Now, the company and many experts believe that the feature could improve the digital wellbeing of users by requiring them to actively opt out of a 
 
 screen time limit. The new initiative will roll out in the coming weeks and it`s one of the most aggressive moves yet by a social media company to 
 
 prevent people from getting caught up in the seemingly endless scrolling that can be really consuming. The move also comes after TikTok, and other 
 
 social media platform has faced years of scrutiny of their impact on young users. And TikTok specifically is facing mounting pressure from lawmakers, 
 
 some of whom feel the platform should be banned altogether, due in part to online security concerns.
 
How much time do you spend scrolling each day? We could all probably spend a little less time on social media, while apps like TikTok, Instagram and 
 
 Snapchat can be really powerful tolls to learn, motivate, inspire and connect us with people. Most experts agree that too much screen time can 
 
 have that effect, especially on young people.
 
More now from CNN chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Everyone knows that screen time probably is a problem for them, whether you`re a teenager or an 
 
 adult. We spent too much time on our phones. And what`s amazing is that, you know, look, these phones have not been around that long.
 
So, a lot of people now research and kind of look into how much time are we spending on phones and what can we do about it?
 
Interesting, one piece of data that jumped out at me, the average person will pick up their phone to look at it, just look at it 300-sometimes a 
 
 day. So, you`re just constantly doing this, and breaking that cycle, that initial cycle of, look, I don`t even know why I`m picking up my phone, just 
 
 doing it, I think was a really important thing that came up over and over again.
 
So, Catherine Price who wrote up a book how to break up with your phone, she says ask these three questions every time you pick up your phone. What 
 
 for? Why now? And what else? What else could I be doing instead?
 
It`s just to sort to bring your brain back online for a second so you`re not mindlessly starting to look up your phone. I thought that was really 
 
 interesting, something I`ve been doing already in my life.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Let`s continue now with part four of our series on the future of travel, the next frontier. It`s estimated that by the year 2050, the world 
 
 population could grow from 7.8 billion to nearly 9 billion. Transportation experts are considering how to support the travel needs for that many 
 
 people. But could the solution for congested cities mean zipping around above the streets?
 
Here`s Rahel Solomon with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  It`s not a plane and it`s not a helicopter. But it might just be your aerial ticket to the 
 
 next frontier of urban transit. This is VoloCity, an all-electric, manned, drone-like aircraft. It looked like something of a sci-fi film, but this 
 
 high-tech flyer is aiming to take off in the very near future.
 
DIRK HOKE, CEO, VOLOCOPTER:  The next frontier for me is that we will see urban mobility coming to life and we will see vehicles flying, bringing us 
 
 from A to B, making our life easier and ensuring the smooth end-to-end mobility.
 
My name is Dirk Hoke and I`m the CEO of Volocopter.
 
SOLOMON:  German manufacturer Volocopter has been busy building the flying taxis of the future.
 
HOKE:  I believe in 2050, we will be using mobility air mobility and as a frequent transportation system, as we do today with taxis.
 
SOLOMON:  But Hoke is quick to tell us, they`re not trying to disrupt the travel industry.
 
HOKE:  So, it will not be used where you have an already existing tram, or you have a metro. But in any area where you have very high traffic 
 
 congestions, the VoloCity will add more alternatives and options to your daily journey.
 
SOLOMON:  VoloCity is designed for single passenger intercity transit with define roots, like from the airport to a hub in a city center. The aircraft 
 
 is classified as eVTOL, or electric vertical take-off and landing.
 
HOKE:  EVTOL means that we use electric motors to lift the vehicle and then to move forward.
 
SOLOMON:  They are pilot controlled, fly at low altitudes and operate like drones.
 
HOKE:  We chose a multicopter design. That means we have 18 motors and rotors, which enables us to fly very stable and fast and safe.
 
SOLOMON:  VoloCity`s current range is 35 kilometers and can reach speeds up to 110 kilometers per hour and it`s all powered by nine swappable battery 
 
 packs.
 
HOKE:  We want to be adding a new mobility without adding to the congestion and to the emissions of this world. With that, we decided from the 
 
 beginning to fly fully electric.
 
SOLOMON:  Beyond last kilometer transit, Volocopter has plans for a larger integrated portfolio, from the booking platform to the landing platform.
 
HOKE:  We also a designed a Volo Region which will be a five-seater connecting regions and cities up to a distance of 200 kilometers. We have 
 
 also the Volodrone which is intended to carry cargo up to 200 kilo, and this is all managed by our software platform which we call VoloIQ, which is 
 
 enabling not only to operate these vehicles, but also to maintain the vehicles and, of course, do also the booking and the security check at the 
 
 Voloport.
 
Voloports are designed to optimize the charging and the handling of the passenger. We are now leaving the prototype status. We`re really on a very 
 
 solid track to go into commercial operation in 2024, in cities like Paris and Rome, because we believe if we can fly in Paris and Rome, we can fly 
 
 almost anywhere, because it`s a very complex, very dense urban environment.
 
SOLOMON:  Volocopter`s ultimate goal is autonomous flight. But for now, there are more steps just to get their fleet off the ground.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  There`s still the management of airspace, what are the paths, how do we manage, do we have the regulatory space to allow these 
 
 things to be adopted? And I think that`s where you`re going to start to see hopefully soon some pretty interesting conversations taking place.
 
SOLOMON:  And perhaps a bigger hurdle, Hoke says public acceptance.
 
HOKE:  I really hope that people will embrace it, I believe it`s a very, very nice vision of the future to have quite sustainable air taxis. And we 
 
 actually believe we will have a big impact on the transportation of the future.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, an unfrogettable riveting story out of Australia, where a man named Dazza created a 3D printed home 
 
 for a frog he found hanging out in his fence. He started small, but as his TikTok video of the frog get to rack up more than 20 million views, he got 
 
 some frogsome ideas from viewers.
 
The little pad has progressed into an amphibious mansion, complete with a porch, plants and the garden and an infinity edge waterfall pool. Oh, 
 
 viewers named the frog Frederick, and the homebuilder says that Frederick has even some friends come over every now and then to visit. Unfrogettable.
 
All right. I want to give a special shout-out to Northwood Middle School in Wakarusa, Indiana. What`s up, lovely people?
 
I also want to show some love to my friends at West View Middle School who sent me like all kinds of great letters and cards, uplifting, motivating 
 
 messages and they also sent me this pretty sweet t-shirt right here. Tighten up, everybody.
 
All right. Let`s keep shining. We`re CNN 10 on YouTube. Send your shout-out request there.
 
Have an awesome weekend. And remember, you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy Wire. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you.
 
END