Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia Kicks Off Celebrations for Victory Day; Russia launches wave of cruise missile attacks; Ursula von der Leyen marks Europe Day in Kyiv; Israel Claims It Has Stopped Its Airstrikes on Gaza; Putin Delivers a Speech During Annual WWII Victory Day Celebrations; Biden meets Congressional Leaders to Resolve Debt Ceiling Standoff; Deliberations on the Battery and Defamation Case between Former President Donald Trump and columnist E. Jean Carroll Begins Today; Celebrations and Activities Related to the Coronation of King Charles III has Ended. Aired 3-4a ET

Aired May 09, 2023 - 03:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:00:00]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. You are watching CNN Newsroom and I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead, it is Victory Day in Russia with the Kremlin ready to display its military might even as some regions are scaling back events due to security concerns over the war in Ukraine. A search for answers in Allen, Texas as investigators try to piece together a motive for Saturday's mass shooting. We're learning new details about how the rampage unfolded. 
 
Plus, President Joe Biden will meet with congressional leadership in the coming hours in hopes of ending the debt ceiling standoff. 
 
UNKNOWN (voice-over): Live from CNN Center, this is CNN Newsroom with Rosemary Church. 
 
CHURCH: At this hour, Russia is kicking off celebrations for Victory Day, a national holiday marking the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II. But as the war rages in Ukraine, several regions in Russia have scaled back events amid security concerns and a lack of military equipment to display. We are expecting remarks from President Vladimir Putin and a parade in Moscow where the Kremlin will show off its military might. And CNN's Clare Sebastian is following developments for us live from London. She joins us now. So, Claire, talk to us about what's expected at this year's scaled-down Victory Day celebrations in Russia, particularly in Moscow, where tensions are very high right now, aren't they? 
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Rosemary, you can see the live pictures now, the parade just getting underway, 10 a.m. Moscow time. On the surface it looks pretty similar to normal, to what we've seen in past years and decades. Clearly, Russia is trying to make things appear normal despite a rising sense of insecurity and anxiety in the capital. Don't forget, this is Red Square, just a few meters, practically, from
 
 where we saw a couple of drones hit the Kremlin less than a week ago. That was just one of several incidents. We've seen fuel depots on fire, we've seen trains derail in Western Russia. There's a sense of anxiety in the country. 
 
And that is why I think, despite the fact that we're seeing some scaling back of the commemorations today, particularly in regions closer to Ukraine, but also in Moscow, they've canceled the immortal regiment march, which is a traditional event where Russians carry placards of their relatives who died in World War II. That has been cancelled. It's now going to have a virtual format. But that is because, the Kremlin says of security concerns, although some are speculating that it is because they don't want to draw attention to losses in the war in Ukraine. 
 
So, this is the context of this Victory Day. It is the second Victory Day, Rosemary, since Russia launched its full-scale, unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. I think we can expect to hear President Putin to speak relatively soon. I think close to the start of the commemorations, I think we can expect to hear him while he'll offer the traditional commemorations of those who died in World War II. Russia lost, don't forget, some 27 million of its citizens, both soldiers and civilians. I think we can expect to hear some re- justification of his invasion of Ukraine. 
 
CHURCH: Yes, and of course the point has to be made, of course, that this is Victory Day and we're talking about the end of World War II when it comes to the war in Ukraine or as Russia would refer to it as the operations there, they're finding that victories are lucid, aren't they? 
 
SEBASTIAN: Yeah, this comes at a difficult moment for Russia in the war in Ukraine. They are, according to the Ukrainians, certainly mostly on the defensive, digging in, particularly in the south, in expectation of a Ukrainian counter-offensive. Russia though has been stepping up attacks, particularly air attacks on Ukraine in recent days overnight, what Ukrainians have described as the fifth air assault on Ukraine in the month of May alone. 
 
So, we've definitely seen an uptick ahead of this Victory Day commemoration, but they are not, and they have not in this war, been able to take that much territory and hold onto it. They've had several major setbacks, the withdrawal from Kherson in November, the loss of the Moskva ship, the flagship of the Black Sea fleet, the Ukrainian successful counteroffensive in Kharkiv. All of this, you know, essentially contributing to some difficulty in this war that Russia had not expected.
 <br>[03:05:00]
 
But this, as well, will be a moment for Russia to show off its military might even amid those setbacks in Ukraine.
 
CHURCH: All right, Clare Sebastian, joining us live from London. Many thanks for that. And more aid is headed to Ukraine ahead of a looming counter-offensive. The U.S. is set to announce a $1.2 billion package as early as today, including drones, ammunition, and air defense missiles. The package is geared toward the country's medium to long- term security needs. That word coming as Russia pounds Ukraine with missiles and drones. 
 
The mayor of Kyiv says Russia launched a massive attack early Monday but Ukraine was able to shoot down dozens of drones over the capital and in just the past few hours the Ukrainian Air Force says it intercepted 23 out of 25 cruise missiles with an official in Kyiv saying 15 were destroyed over the city. And CNN's International Diplomatic Editor Nick Robertson joins us live now from Eastern Ukraine. Nick, on this Victory Day for Russia, any sense of victory in Ukraine might be elusive but that hasn't stopped it attacking the country. So, bring us up to date on what has been happening across Ukraine. 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yeah, today is being called Europe Day to put Ukraine in lockstep with the European Union and other European countries, that they're celebrating this rather than what Ukraine used to celebrate. And going back to its history as part of the Soviet Union, Victory Day, they are now calling this Europe Day and perhaps no coincidence that Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commissioner is in -- European Commission President, is in Kyiv today. 
 
So, from the Ukrainian perspective, they'll be able to say, look, we're celebrating the Europe Day, we're in lockstep with the European Union, so undoubtedly discussions there about Ukraine's ambition to join the European Union as soon as possible. They submitted the paperwork last year. They've been moving quickly to try to do the things that the European Union wants them to do, to achieve that. 
 
But this is all sort of the diplomatic side and the hard part of what goes on, as you say, is at the front line here, not far away in Bakhmut, this, of course, with the Victory Day Parade in Moscow, both sides here watching each other so closely because the Russians know that there is that the Russians -- the Russians know that the Ukrainians are about to launch a counter-offensive. They don't know when they don't know where. And from the Ukrainian perspective, they know that that this day is so important to Russia that Russia potentially trying to make some last minute gains back. Look, would have been one of those places where they wanted to do it. 
 
So, a lot was at stake going into this day, which perhaps explains all those strikes on Keith that you were talking about. Cruise missiles, eight fired from the Black Sea late Monday night, 17 fired, promote the Caspian Sea to the east of Ukraine in the early hours of this morning. Most of them intercepted, and this of course coming after a barrage of drones that were all shot down the day before. 
 
So, it is perhaps, we can look at this after today as an inflection point in the war because now, both sides will have read each other through this moment. And of course for Ukraine, it is all about how, where, when to move this forward to a counteroffensive. 
 
CHURCH: Yeah, all right, Nic Robertson joining us from Eastern Ukraine. Many thanks for that report. Israel says it has stopped its airstrikes on Gaza for now after targeting what it calls kingpin terrorists in a series of early morning attacks. The Israeli government says the strikes were retaliation against Islamic Jihad for what it calls the group's incessant aggression. 
 
A hospital administrator in Gaza says at least 13 people were killed, including several women and children. Islamic Jihad blames the attacks killed three of its top leaders and their families. Israel acknowledges some collateral in the strikes but says its only target was Islamic Jihad which it accuses of firing more than 100 rockets towards southern Israel last week. 
 
Our Hadas Gold joins us now from southern Israel. So, Hadas, what more are you learning about this?
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, Rosemary, I am in front of an IDF Iron Dome battery in Southern Israel. It is these types of batteries that will likely be engaged in the coming hours. Everyone here is essentially bracing for response from Gaza, for rocket attacks from Gaza. These batteries are placed all over southern Israel, and these, they have interceptors. Each one has about 20 interceptors inside, and they are launched by computerized radar to try and intercept incoming rockets. It's been quiet so far this morning since those overnight airstrikes, but the tension is high and there is a very high expectation of action.
 <br>[03:10:00]
 
It's been quiet so far this morning since those overnight air strikes, but the tension is high and there is a very high expectation of action within the coming hours. As we speak, the funerals are supposed to be underway in Gaza for those that were killed in the strikes overnight. The Israeli military and Islamic Jihad and Hamas all confirming that at least three senior commanders for the militant group, Islamic Jihad, including the Commander-in-Chief of the Al-Quds Brigade, who has had assassination attempts on him in the past, and who Islamic Jihad said has been wanted for 20 years were killed in this overnight operation. 
 
Alongside those killed, we are also learning of women and children, including at least four children who were killed in these operations. The hospital in Gaza is saying that at least 13 people were killed and 20 others were injured. The Israeli authorities are saying they're looking into collateral damage, but that they say all they were targeting was Islamic Jihad. 
 
Now, Israeli military says that this had been planned for some time after last week, after Islamic Jihad had launched more than 100 rockets from Gaza into Israel. That was in response to a former Islamic Jihad spokesperson who had died in an Israeli prison after undergoing a more than 86-day hunger strike. And there actually had been some criticism from the right-wing in this current Israeli government that the initial Israeli military response to those more than 100 rockets last week was too weak, that really no sort of damage was done to the militants or their operations. There's been a different response this morning because not only
 
 overnight were those three commanders killed, but also Israeli military saying they targeted at least 10 other sites, things like weapons manufacturing sites. The big question now, Rosemary, though will be what will be the response, and will Hamas get involved. 
 
Now, Hamas has already responded in a statement saying that they hold the Israeli occupation or saying that the Israeli occupation they say will pay the price for its crimes. Now, the Israeli military is saying their focus, they've said this on the record. Their focus was only Islamic Jihad, but the real question will be if Hamas will get involved -- Palestinian Islamic Jihad. 
 
We are expecting some sort of response from them likely after these funerals take place in this next hour. Remember last August, there was a similar sort of two to three-day long conflict between the Israeli military and Islamic Jihad. And in that instance, Hamas did not get involved. 
 
So, Israel is essentially taking a calculated risk here, wondering whether Hamas will get involved. But preparations are already underway. Israeli military reservists have been called. Israelis who live in this area where I am, especially close to the Gaza border, have been asked to stay near their shelters. There is a -- essentially state of emergency called running within a 40-kilometer range of the Gaza Strip. Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: All right, Hadas Gold joining us live there from southern Israel, appreciate that. U.S. President Joe Biden will meet House Speaker Kevin McCarthy in the coming hours to discuss the debt ceiling standoff, details of what's on the agenda. That's coming up next. And we want to bring you up these live pictures. And a natural factor in parts of Russia, although some celebrations have been cancelled. Here we're looking at these live pictures in Russia and we are waiting on President Putin who will address the nation very soon. 
 
Of course, this is a deeply symbolic day, reportedly the most important event of the year for President Putin and coming at a time when victory in Ukraine for the Russian leader appears elusive. We'll continue to follow this on the other side of the break. Do stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Russia's President Putin speaking now at Victory Day celebrations in Moscow. Let's listen in. 
 
(BEGIN LIVE VIDEO)
 
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): Congratulations on Victory Day. Congratulations on this day that marks the memory of our fathers and grandfathers who brought the glory and immortality to their names and their fatherland at the price of huge sacrifices saving humanity from the Nazism. 
 <br>[03:15:00] Today, the civilization again is at breaking point. Again, a true war has been unleashed against our motherland. We have repelled international terrorism and to fit, we will defend the residents of Donbass and secure our own safety. Russia has no unfriendly nations in the West or in the East. As the majority of people on this planet, we want to see the future peaceful, free, and stable. 
 
We believe any ideology of supremacy, due to its nature, is repulsive, criminal, and deadly. However, the Western globalist elites still talk about their exclusivity, pit people against each other and split society, provoking bloody conflicts and coups, sowing hatred, Russophobia, aggressive nationalism, destroying family, traditional values which make a human being a human being. 
 
In order to continue to dictate and impose their will on people, their rights, their rules, but in fact, a system of robbery and violence and suppression, they seem to have forgotten what the Nazi attempts to rule the world ended up as who defeated this evil? Who stood up for their native land and did not spare their own lives to free the nations of Europe. We can see how in a number of countries, memorials to Soviet soldiers are destroyed, great military leader memorials are destroyed, and the cult of the descendants of Nazism is glorified, whereas the memory of true heroes is defamed. 
 
This mockery of the memory of the soldiers is another crime. And the justification of yet another attack on Russia, of those who have gathered the Nazis come from all over the world, their goal is to bring defeat and disintegration to our country, break the system of global security, undo the result of the Second World War and destroy sovereign centers of development. 
 
This impunity and attempts at arbitrary rule ends in tragedy always. And the Ukrainian nation has become hostage to a coup which led to a criminal regime led by its Western masters. It has become a pawn to their cruel and selfish plans. 
 
The memory of our defenders of the motherland is sacred in our hearts. We honor members of the resistance who fought Nazism, soldiers of allied armies of the U.S., Britain and other countries. We remember and honor the memory of Chinese soldiers in their battle against Japanese militarism. I am convinced that the experience of solidarity and partnership in the days of the struggle against a common threat is our heritage and a reliable base of support in our movement towards a multi-polar world based on trust and indivisible security, equal opportunities for unique and free development for all nations in the world. 
 
It is important that now here in Moscow, the leaders of the Commonwealth of Independent States are gathered. Their thankful attitude to the heroism of our ancestors who fought together and defeated the enemy. All the nations of the USSR contributed to our common victory, and we shall always remember it. We bow our heads to the glorious memory of all those whose lives were taken by the war, the memory of sons, daughters, fathers, mothers, grandfathers, husbands, wives, brothers, sisters and loved ones, friends.
 <br>[03:20:00]
 
A minute of silence. Thank you. Citizens of Russia, the battles that decided the fate of our homeland have always become popular and sacred. We are loyal to the legacy of our ancestors and we understand deeply what it means to be worthy of their battlefield and moral achievements. We are proud of the participants of the Special Military Operation and all those fighting on the front line who, under fire, are securing the front and saving the wounded. 
 
There is nothing more important than your battlefield task. Security, the security of our country depends on you. The future of our sovereignty depends on you. You are performing your battlefield duty with honor, fighting for Russia. Your families, children and friends are behind us. They're waiting for us. I'm sure that you feel their endless love. 
 
The entire nation has come together to support our heroes. Everybody is ready to help. They're praying for you. Comrades, friends, veterans. Today, every family in Russia is honoring the participants of the Great Patriotic War. They remember their loved ones, their heroes. They're bringing flowers to war memorials. We are here in the Red Square on the soil that remembers Yuri Dolgoruky and Dmitry Donskoi, the Militia of Minin and Pozharsky, the warriors of Kutuzov and Peter the Great, to the parades of 1941 and 1945. Today, here today, participants of the special military operation, they are professional soldiers and those who have come to the ranks of the army as part of the partial mobilization. They are members of the Lugansk and Donetsk Corps, voluntary troops, Rosgvardia, interior troops, emergency troops and other agencies. I welcome your friends. I greet all of you fighting for Russia on the battlefield, all those on duty now. During the Great Patriotic War, our heroic ancestors proved that there is nothing mightier and stronger than our unity. There is nothing stronger in the world than our love for our homeland, for Russia, for our glorious armed forces, for victory. Hurrah. 
 
CHURCH: And we have been listening to President Putin speaking during the annual World War II Victory Day celebration, falsely claiming a real war is being waged against our motherland. I want to bring in Claire Sebastian to discuss what we just heard from President Putin. A lot of misinformation and disinformation in that speech. Let's start with this claim that a real war was being waged on the motherland. 
 <br>[03:25:00]
 
SEBASTIAN: Yeah, Rosemary, this didn't seem to be anything particularly new from President Putin. It was along the lines of his sort of stump speech that we continue to hear, his justifications for the war in Ukraine. Among them that Russia is somehow under siege, under attack. Now, this, of course, rings particularly true in recent days. It's less than a week since several drones hit the Kremlin very close to where he was standing while making that speech. 
 
Of course, we've also seen attacks near Russia's border with Ukraine, fuel depots, train derailments, like that. The Russian people as they mark this Victory Day which is really the most important day in their calendar are feeling particularly insecure. There's a heightened sense of anxiety. 
 
So, perhaps he was referring to that in his initial comments. I thought it was interesting that he mentioned terrorism. This is something that we've seen President Putin and Russian officials increasingly mention in regard to those sort of attacks across the border into Russia that we've seen in other sort of parts of the speech that were interesting but also not new. 
 
He talked about how Ukraine is a pawn in Western efforts to dominate. He talked about how Western global elites still talk about exclusivity. He went on to talk about the sort of multi-polar world that Russia is striving for. And there was, of course, the traditional sort of commemorations of those who were lost in World War II. 
 
But as in many recent years, this was not just about World War II. This was about Putin talking about his goals, his aims. He said he was proud of the success of the special military operation, as Russia continues to call it in Ukraine, despite the fact that, as we know, Russia has not only not made a lot of meaningful progress but is, as we speak, preparing to defend its gains against an expected Ukrainian counter-offensive. Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: And Claire, as we watch the visuals here from the parade and we've just listened, as we've pointed out to our viewers to the speech from Russian President Vladimir Putin talking about he's trying to insist, tell the people in his country that they're under attack. Do most people across Russia accept that misinformation? 
 
SEBASTIAN: You know, they live in a climate where there is no free media. Russia stifled the last vestiges of the free press when the war in Ukraine started. That was part of their effort to control public opinion around this war. So, the Russian people are not fed a diet of balanced information about this war. And they are culturally very, the whole sort of sense of Victory Day is a huge part of their cultural identity. So, I think many of them will sort of buy that line, others are perhaps sort of apathetic, not wanting to engage too much with the topic of the war in Ukraine.
 
But the interesting thing is that the more he presents this sense, traditionally this is what we've seen, the more he presents this sense of a common enemy, of Russia against the West. And it's interesting, by the way, that the only leaders who are visiting during this Victory Day, which traditionally was attended by the way by U.S., European leaders that was mostly before the annexation of Crimea. 
 
But this year, it's just countries of the former Soviet Union, Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, countries like that. They have not got a lot of allies left in the world but as I said he is presenting the sense of Russia against the world, a common enemy, and that does tend to rally popular support. Rosemary.
 
CHURCH: Yeah, absolutely. Claire Sebastian joining us live from London as we watch these live pictures from the Victory Day Parade there in Moscow, much scaled down version compared to last year. And as we'll take it to break and leave you with these live pictures. 
 
(END LIVE VIDEO)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:30:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: In the coming hours, U.S. President Joe Biden is set to meet with the top four Congressional leaders to try to resolve the debt ceiling standoff. But the White House reiterates that President Biden's stance has not changed and that Congress must raise the debt limit without conditions to avoid a catastrophic default. 
 
A top official tells CNN there is no Plan B if Congress fails to act. Meantime, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen is once again warning of consequences if the debt ceiling is not raised. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JANET YELLEN, U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY: If Congress doesn't raise the debt ceiling, we just will not have enough money at that time to be able to pay all of the bills. It's widely agreed that this would be a huge hit to the economy and really an economic catastrophe. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Rana Foroohar is a CNN Global Economic Analyst, a global business columnist, and an associate editor at the "Financial Times." She joins me now from New York. Great to have you with us. 
 
RANA FOROOHAR, CNN GLOBAL ECONOMIC ANALYST: Great to be here. 
 
CHURCH: So we are just hours away from these crucial debt ceiling talks at the White House and only weeks away from America defaulting on its debt, if an agreement can't be reached by June 1st. What do you expect will come out of today's talks and how likely is it that the two sides will strike a deal? 
 <br>[03:34:55]
 
FOROOHAR: Well you know, nobody thought we were going to get to the point that we are now, let's just say that for starters. You know, the fact that we are down to the Republicans having passed a deal with all kinds of strings attached that the president simply feels that he really can't accept, you know, this would be an unwinding of some of his really signature fiscal stimulus that he's put through issues he cares about deeply. 
 
He has said that he will veto the bill in its current form, which means that we would go to a debt ceiling standoff. That's a place nobody wants to get to, Rosemary, because, as you know, there's a lot of research coming out of government, coming out of independent think tanks to say that if we fell over the debt ceiling, it would probably plunge the U.S. into an immediate recession. 
 
That said, I really do think that we're going to go up to the wire because this is a standoff. And this is a continued political standoff between Republicans and Democrats over an issue that we have been back and forth on for years now. 
 
CHURCH: Yeah. I mean, we've got the Republicans wanting these tough spending cuts in exchange for raising the debt limit. But President Biden keeps saying he won't accept any conditions attached. But in the end, will he need to cave in to some level of spending cuts to prevent this country from defaulting on its dead and dragging the whole world, not just the United States, but the whole world into what the Treasury Secretary has called an economic catastrophe? 
 
FOROOHAR: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, you know, just one more thing on that point. What I'm hearing is that a lot of senior administration officials have begun calling Republicans. We're hearing that Janet Yellen has begun calling business leaders and saying look, you've got to put pressure on the other side around this. 
 
I find it very hard to imagine this president, who is the most labor- friendly president that we've had in memory, frankly, standing for a bill that cuts signature programs that are meant to bolster middle- class Americans, working people in favor of tax cuts that he views as being largely for the rich. 
 
You know, I think that -- that would be a tough pill for this administration to swallow. That said, I also think it would be real political suicide for the Democrats to look as though they had let America go over the debt cliff. I really think, Rosemary, this is going to be brinksmanship up until the end. 
 
CHURCH: Yeah. So let's look at this. What is House Speaker Kevin McCarthy likely to accept in any negotiation on his list of tough spending cuts? And what might President Biden accept, so that some sort of deal can be reached? What are some likely options or scenarios here? 
 
FOROOHAR: Yeah. I think anything that cuts into some of the stimulus that is really meant to go directly to labor issues, to working people, to the signature Inflation Reduction Act. I mean, these are going to be really hard things for the president to, you know, back off on. These are -- these are the things that he has built his presidency around. 
 
And frankly, that he's building foreign policy around. You know, I mean, the last few weeks have been all about trying to get Europeans on board with the Inflation Reduction Act. So to have a kind of an about face there would be really problematic. That said, you know, you raise an important point that the Democrats probably are going to have to accept that, look, debt matters. 
 
The U.S. does have a deficit issue. I think even some Liberals are coming around to the idea that, you know, we need to think more carefully about this. So it's possible that we could see a compromise around some kind of spending cuts, but honestly, it's difficult for me to see where the economies of scale are here because the Republicans are going after a lot of the signature programs that this presidency has been built on. CHURCH: So how long can the two sides argue about this before it's too
 
 late? And what are the financial -- 
 
FOROOHAR: Yeah. 
 
CHURCH: -- implications if the US defaults on its debt come June 1st? 
 
FOROOHAR: So if you look at history the last few times, and it's amazing that we're saying I'm saying this -- but you know, the last few times we've been at this point, things have really come down to the wire. And this time around, I would say the politics are as contentious, if not more contentious as they have ever been. So I do expect this to go down to the wire. 
 
It will be interesting to see if the real personal efforts on the part of the Treasury Secretary and other administration officials to reach out to folks in the business community and say look, this is an economic issue. Whether you're a conservative, whether you're a Democrat, if -- if we let this country default on its debt, we are going to plunge the U.S. and possibly the global economy into recession. Do you really want that? I think we'll know more in the next few days about whether those personal outreaches make a difference. 
 <br>[03:39:58]
 
CHURCH: Yeah, we certainly will. Rana Foroohar, always a pleasure to get your analysis on all things economic. I Appreciate it. 
 
FOROOHAR: Thank you so much. 
 
CHURCH: And we'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: In the hours ahead, the jury in the civil rape trial against Donald Trump is expected to begin deliberations. Trump is accused of civil battery and defamation by former magazine columnist E. Jean Carroll. During closing arguments on Monday, her attorney told jurors no one is above the law, while Trump's lawyer urged them not to hold any negative feelings about the former president against him. 
 
CNN's Kara Scannell picks up the story. 
 <br>[03:45:06]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARA SCANNEL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The lawyers squared-off in closing arguments in Donald Trump's battery and defamation trial. Over two hours, attorneys for Caroll called out Trump for not appearing for his own civil rape trial, telling the jury that he never looked them in the eye and denied raping her. 
 
Her lawyers played for the jury parts of Trump's video deposition, saying Trump was in fact a witness against himself. They showed the jury the moment Trump mistook Carroll in a black and white photo taken years before the alleged assault for his second wife, Marla Maples, proving Caroll's lawyers argued that Carroll was Trump's type. 
 
They also played again for the jury the "Access Hollywood" tape, with Trump boasting, I just start kissing them. I don't even wait. Her lawyers argued, this is how he treats women. That video is a confession. 
 
Trump's attorney said Carroll's story was unbelievable. They want you to hate him enough to ignore the facts, his lawyer argued. He focused on Carroll's inability to provide an exact date of the alleged rape. 
 
Without a date, Trump's lawyer said he couldn't find witnesses or go through Trump's calendar for an alibi. Instead, he suggested Carroll colluded with the two friends she could fighted in at the time of the alleged assault because they were politically motivated and wanted Trump out of office. The jury will return Tuesday morning. That's when the judge will give them an instruction on the law and then deliberations will begin. 
 
Kara Scannell, CNN, New York. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: China's foreign ministry has announced it has expelled a Canadian diplomat in Shanghai. This comes a day after Canadian officials did the same to a Chinese diplomat after claims he harassed a Canadian lawmaker and interfered in the country's elections. 
 
Now both officials have just days to leave the country. These heightened tensions come amid an ongoing investigation into whether China interfered in Canada's elections in 2019 and 2021. 
 
An historic weekend wraps up in the U.K. from acts of service to a night of star-studded performances. We'll show you how Brits celebrated the coronation of the King and Queen. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: A massive glacier in Greenland appears to be melting even faster than originally thought. And scientists say that could speed up the rise in sea levels. They've found the Petermann Glacier is melting away with warmer ocean tides. And in recent years, a huge hole was formed big enough to fit two statues of liberty stacked on top of one another. CNN has already reported how sea surface temperatures are the highest on record, and scientists fear it's yet another alarming trend in the climate crisis. 
 
The Biden administration wants to make it easier for airline passengers to deal with flight delays and cancellations. Its proposing airlines be required to compensate stranded travelers. That compensation could include meals and lodging. In some countries, these rules are already in place, and President Biden acknowledges the U.S. is lagging behind. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: Airline passengers in Canada, for example, in the European Union and other places, already get these compensations. And guess what? It works. 
 
One study found that the European Union required airlines to compensate passengers for flight delays. The number of flight delays went down. 
 
I appreciate Secretary Buttigieg's leadership on this issue. And I hope and expect the Department of Transportation to move as quickly as it can to put this new rule in place. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: King Charles III says the nation's support has been the greatest possible coronation gift over the event-filled weekend. The palace released his message alongside these official portraits as celebrations drew to a close. The monarch shared his thanks to all those involved in marking the historic occasion. 
 
CNN's Christina Macfarlane details how the royal weekend ended. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR AND SENIOR SPORTS CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Sunday night fever descended on Windsor Castle. King Charles III Coronation concert was the climax of a nationwide celebration. 
 
Gone was the solemnity of Saturday. Instead, A-list celebrities sang chart-topping hits, not holy hymns. Their majesties in attendance, ermine robes and crowns dispensed, all together a more relaxed look in the Royal Box. 
 
The Prince of Wales cut a relaxed figure on stage too, joking with the crowd between speaking about his pride and his dear 'Pa. 
 
PRINCE WILLIAM, PRINCE OF WALES: I want to say a few words about my father and why I believe this weekend is so important. But don't worry, unlike Lionel, I won't go on all night long. 
 
[APPLAUSE]
 
MACFARLANE (voice-over): As for confirmation, the King asked Lionel Richie the same question in a surprise appearance on "American Idol." 
 
KING CHARLES III: Because I just wanted to check how much, how long you'll be using this room for. 
 
LIONEL RITCHIE, SINGER: We have to give the room up right away. 
 
KING CHARLES III: I just wanted to check. 
 
RITCHIE: Thank you so much for coming. 
 
KING CHARLES III: No, but thank you so much for your brilliant performance. 
 
MACFARLANE (voice-over): And come Monday, a Wales's family day out and a first ever royal engagement for Prince Louis. Painting, drilling, shoveling, even a ride in the digger with dad. There's a first for everything. As if juxtaposed against the pomp and ceremony of the weekend, a day mucking in marks the end of the beginning of the Carolian era. 
 <br>[03:54:58]
 
A statement of thanks from the King was released Monday evening, but ended with a clear message. We now rededicate our lives to serving the people. In other words, the party's over, back to work. 
 
Christina Macfarlane, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: And finally this hour, an unexpected story of survival. This is the moment police rescued a woman who had been missing for five days in the Australian bush. She didn't have any water with her, but she did have wine. The 48-year-old who doesn't actually drink alcohol told police the only liquid she had was a bottle of wine. She had bought as a gift. Luckily it helped her through her ordeal and she was found safe and well. We like happy endings. 
 
Thanks so much for spending part of your day with me. I'm Rosemary Church. "CNN Newsroom" continues with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo, next.