Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Ukraine's President to Meet with Congress Members and Biden; Some Republicans Working to Avoid Government Shutdown; Garland Rebukes Republicans at House Judiciary Hearing; Azerbaijan Takes Over Ethnic Armenian Enclave; Canada Urged to Reveal More Details About Investigation. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired September 21, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN HOST: And welcome to all of you watching us here in the United States, Canada and all around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber. Ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA) U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER: We're very close there. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It doesn't have to happen. Leadership can come to us with a conservative budget. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: House Republicans are responsible for this failure if the government shuts down. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I am not the president's lawyer. I will add, I am not Congress's prosecutor. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He picks the one guy, the one guy he knows will protect Joe Biden. He picks David Weiss. 
 
DONALD TRUMP, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Like Ronald Reagan before me, I believe in the three exceptions for rape, incest and the life of the mother. I believe in that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: It is Thursday, September 21st, 4:00 a.m. in Washington, where we're tracking several major stories. In the hours ahead, the Ukrainian president will meet with members of the U.S. Congress and the President to ask for more ammunition and weaponry in the war against Russia. And we're told the White House is planning to offer a new military aid package. But some Republicans are pushing back against the growing costs. 
 
Meanwhile, after days of infighting among House Republicans, they're now planning votes on a new short term spending plan to avert a government shutdown. Now, those votes are scheduled for Friday and Saturday. Republican hardliners had revolted over a previous proposal that House Speaker hoped to pass this weekend. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCCARTHY: I think, I think we made tremendous progress as an entire conference. We had a great discussion. We're very close there. I feel I just got a little more movement to go there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BRUNHUBER: Meanwhile, leading Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has come out against a short term spending bill. He urged Republicans to, quote, use the power of the purse and defend the country, but many want to get a deal done. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. TONY GONZALES (R-TX): We got to stop lying to the American public, you know, Washington politicians are failing America. President Biden is responsible for this failure. The Senate is responsible for this failure, and House Republicans are responsible for this failure if the government shuts down. We're not having serious conversations. It's always somebody else's fault but ours and it's absolutely dangerous to the American public if we have this shutdown. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: Well after months of delay due to a lone Republican Senator, the Senate on Wednesday confirmed U.S. Air Force General Charles Q. Brown as the next chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Two other senior posts, U.S. Army chief of staff and U.S. Marine commandant, are expected to be confirmed today. Brown's confirmation signals a small but significant break in Senator Tommy Tuberville's hold on more than 300 military promotions because he objects to current Pentagon abortion policies. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE (R-AL): We finally came to a little bit of conclusion, but it's about time we should have done these a long time ago. But we're making progress. Again, I still have my holds and we'll continue to do that when we might bring some more up ourselves, you know, through our petition that that we're able to get now, but it's -- I'm glad we're making some progress.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BRUNHUBER: Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin welcomed Brown's belated confirmation, but he had harsh words for Tuberville, saying the Senator's unilateral holds were endangering U.S. National Security and military readiness. Austin added it was well past time to confirm the rest. 
 
U.S. House Republican and U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland clashed on Wednesday at a testy Judiciary Committee hearing. Republicans peppered Garland with questions about the Justice Department investigation into President Joe Biden's son, Hunter, among other topics. The Attorney General forcefully pushed back against the criticism, saying he didn't interfere in the probe. CNN's Sara Murray has more from Washington. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MERRICK GARLAND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: And belief, so help me God. 
 
SARA MURRAY, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Attorney General Merrick Garland squaring off against his toughest Republican critics on Capitol Hill today. 
 
REP. JIM JORDAN (R-OH): The fix is in even with the face saving indictment last week of Hunter Biden, everyone knows the fix is in. 
 
GARLAND: I am not the president's lawyer. I will add I am not Congress's prosecutor. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee hounding Garland for details about the criminal investigation into Hunter Biden, after his plea deal imploded in July and he was indicted last week in connection with the 2018 gun purchase. 
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
JORDAN: After five years, what stage are we in? We in the beginning stage, the middle stage, the end stage, they keep hiding the ball stage. What stage are we in? 
 
GARLAND: I'm not permitted to discuss ongoing investigations. 
 
JORDAN: That isn't that convenient. I think it's two brave whistleblowers came forward and a judge called BS on the plea deal. You guys tried to get past them. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): Garland rebuffing Republicans questions and deferring to special counsel David Weiss, who is overseeing the Hunter Biden probe. 
 
GARLAND: I left it to Mr. Weiss whether to bring charges or not. That would include whether to let statute of limitations expire or not. Whether there was sufficient evidence to bring a case that was subject to the statute of limitations or not. Whether there were better cases to bring or not. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): The Attorney General, reiterating that he stayed out of the Hunter Biden investigation. 
 
GARLAND: I promised the Senate when I came before it for confirmation that I would leave Mr. Weiss in place and that I would not interfere with his investigation. 
 
REP. MATT GAETZ (R-FL): Has anyone at the department told President Biden to knock it off? With Hunter. 
 
GARLAND: No one that I know of has spoken to the White House about the Hunter Biden case. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): And insisting no one ordered him to bring federal charges against former President Trump. 
 
GARLAND: No one has told me to indict, and in this case the decision to indict was made by the special counsel. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): BUT the political interference accusations are sure to reemerge as the GOP controlled House proceeds with an impeachment inquiry into President Joe Biden. 
 
MCCARTHY: These are allegations of abuse of power, obstruction and corruption. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): Leaving Garland to fend off threats of being held in contempt. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Aren't you, in fact, in contempt of Congress when you refuse to answer? 
 
GARLAND: Congressman, I have the greatest respect for Congress. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): And Democrats to defend Garland, pointing out Jim Jordan's refusal to comply with the January 6th committee subpoena. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That is quite rich because the guy who's leaving the hearing room right now, Mr. Jordan, is about 500 days into evading his subpoena. 
 
MURRAY (voice-over): Garland beating back criticism of the department and career civil servants, some of whom have been named by Republicans as they barrel ahead in their probe into alleged political bias at DOJ. 
 
GARLAND: Singling out individual career public servants who are just doing their jobs is dangerous, particularly at a time of increased threats to the safety of public servants and their families. We will not be intimidated. 
 
MURRAY: Now when it comes to Hunter Biden and those gun charges, a judge said that Hunter Biden will have to appear in federal court in Delaware, in person and on October 3rd for his initial appearance. Hunter Biden had wanted to appear via a video link, but the judge said it was important that Hunter Biden not receive any special treatment. 
 
Sara Murray, CNN Washington. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: A former Trump White House aide who provided key testimony to the House January 6th committee is now accusing Rudy Giuliani of groping her. Cassidy Hutchinson says in a new book titled "Enough" that Giuliani put his hands under her blazer and her skirt backstage at the rally that preceded the January 6th insurrection. She writes that others, including Attorney John Eastman witnessed it and that he flashed her a leering grin, although he denies he ever met her. She says she then broke away from Giuliani and stormed out. Giuliani's political adviser is vehemently denying this happened, calling it a disgusting lie and saying it's suspicious Hutchinson is making the accusation now when her book is coming out. 
 
Giuliani is currently facing a series of legal issues, including millions of dollars in mounting legal bills. 
 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will be in Washington today to meet with U.S. President Joe Biden and with members of Congress. He just wrapped up his very first in person meeting at the United Nations since the war began. And during a meeting at the UN Security Council, he called out the elephant in the room. A council that's been deadlocked since the war began. Just because Russia is a permanent member with veto power, though Zelinsky says, there's a solution for that. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): In cases of mass atrocities against human rights, veto power should be voluntarily suspended. But we can also observe that Russia will not give up this stolen privilege voluntarily. 
 
Therefore, the UN General Assembly should be given a real power to overcome the veto. This will be the first necessary step. If it is impossible to stop the war because all efforts are vetoed by the aggressor.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BRUNHUBER: President Zelenskyy spent his final night in New York meeting with Wall Street CEO's and business leaders. He's hoping to line up support for efforts to eventually rebuild Ukraine and its economy. Billionaire Michael Bloomberg, businessman Robert Kraft and former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger were reportedly in attendance. Zelenskyy could have a tougher time with members of Congress as many Republicans are calling for cuts to U.S. support. 
 
And President Biden has promised Ukrainians they won't face Russia alone in his call for global unity to end the war. He'll be backing up that vow with a new military aid package when Volodymyr Zelenskyy visits the White House today. Kayla Tausche has the details. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: When Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visits the White House, the U.S. is prepared to unveil a new security package, including artillery, antiarmor, antimissile and significant air defense capabilities that officials say, will help the country ramp up its counteroffensive, as well as protect its skies with an expectation that strikes on critical infrastructure will increase as the weather grows colder. 
 
But a U.S. official tells me that deep strike missiles known as ATACMS are not expected in this new security drawdown. John Kirby, a top national security official told reporters the government agencies are still weighing the possibility of sending these weapons to Ukraine. The military in the U.S., however, believes that they're less critical for a successful counteroffensive than say, vehicles and mine clearing equipment that can breach Russian troops on the ground. 
 
But it all comes as Zelenskyy prepares his pitch for skeptics in U.S. Congress who are weighing whether to green light 10s of billions of dollars in more aid. Zelenskyy tells CNN that his pitch to them will be we are near the finish line. I am sure of it. 
 
Kayla Tausche, CNN, traveling with the president in New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRUNHUBER: Ukraine says its air defenses shot down 36 of 43 Russian missiles fired across the country overnight, but the strikes were deadly. At least two people were killed and five others wounded in the southern city of Kherson. Officials there called it a terrible night of shelling on residential areas in the northeastern city of Kharkiv. Officials warned residents to stay in shelters due to heavy Russian shelling. 
 
And earlier Thursday, air raid sirens and explosions sounded in the capital, Kiev. Officials say the city's air defense system intercepted a number of Russian missiles. At least seven people were wounded in the attack. 
 
CNN's investigative producer, Katie Polglase, joins me now from London. So Katie, let's start there with all those over -- attacks overnight. What's the latest? 
 
KATIE POLGLASE, CNN INVESTIGATIVE PRODUCER: Absolutely, Kim. Another really devastating night for civilians in Ukraine. Unfortunately, something we've heard many times before. You mentioned there Kharkiv, there's also her Kherson, Lviv, Kyiv. This is widespread across Ukraine and in some cases very far away from the frontline. 
 
A reminder here that this is something that Ukrainian civilians have been dealing with throughout this war. Not just the attacks, but the fear of these attacks happening at any moment in any area of Ukraine. Just those attacks in Kherson that resulted in two people died. It was two men in a dormitory that was hit. Meanwhile, in Kyiv there several were injured, including a nine year old girl. These are civilians. These are not soldiers and this is a devastating reminder of what is continuing. While the diplomacy is playing out in New York and now as Zelenskyy going to DC, this war is very much still happening and impacting civilians on a day-to-day basis. 
 
Now all of this, this news overnight will be good ammunition really for Zelenskyy while he's heading to DC to meet with Biden, but also, crucially, to meet with lawmakers on the other side of the aisle that might have doubts about continuing to fund Ukraine's counteroffensive. This is why these kinds of attacks that Russia is continuing, this is what Zelenskyy will be showing as the reason why they continue to need aid. They continue to need help in this counteroffensive. 
 
And you mentioned there this aid package that the White House is now planning to give, notably not these long-range missiles. Again, something that is likely to be on the agenda when Zelenskyy meets with Biden today. Why not these missiles? This is what he has been specifically asking for. These army tactical missile systems. They have a very long-range and can reach behind enemy lines. 
 
Now clearly, the U.S. is offering a lot of other things including antiaircraft capabilities that will be crucial for protecting against exactly this kind of Russian shelling that we've seen overnight. And that is very important, particularly as we go into the winter months. But these long-range missiles are crucial for a counteroffensive, for pushing back into Russian infrastructure in this war. And clearly that is something Zelenskyy is going to be asking about today, when he meets with Biden. 
 
BRUNHUBER: All right, so Katie, Ukraine getting more U.S. support. Getting less support now from Poland. Take us through this surprising development. 
 
POLGLASE: Yes, this has escalated. Perhaps more than people would have expected at the beginning. So now Poland is announcing that they will no longer be giving military weapons to Ukraine for this counteroffensive. Something that perhaps is not expected even a few days ago. And it actually started to do with grain. There has been an increasing debate, a controversy around the fact that Poland and several other European countries as well have decided to ban the import of Ukrainian grain. This is because Ukrainian grain has been cheaper than their local grain. And as a result, that has undercut effectively Polish farmers. That is why the ban was in place now. 
 
Now just last week the European Union announced that they would be lifting that embargo. 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
But Poland and several other countries, including Slovakia, Romania, Hungary, several are now saying they will defy that ban and continue to not import Ukrainian grain. 
 
Now, understandably, that has not gone down very well with the Ukrainian side. They've said that this is unacceptable. And this has now escalated to Poland saying that they will no longer be delivering weaponry to Ukraine. They are arguing this is because they need to defend themselves. It's a Polish national security issue, but clearly very concerning as all the support Ukraine can get at the moment is clearly very needed. 
 
BRUNHUBER: Yes, absolutely. All right, thanks so much. Katie Polglase is in London. Appreciate it.
 
U.S. Defense Department is sending 800 active duty service members to the border with Mexico. They'll support the 2,500 National Guard troops already at the border who are dealing with a recent surge of migrants traveling north. 
 
About 3,000 migrants crossed into the U.S. and surrendered to authorities in Eagle Pass, Texas on Wednesday. Officials are trying to determine what prompted this latest surge. They continue to claim that disinformation from smugglers, poor economies and authoritarian regimes are the driving forces for the mass migration. 
 
All right, still to come, U.S. presidential hopeful Ron De Santis unveils his energy agenda while downplaying the effects of climate change, we'll have his comments from oil fields of Texas just ahead. 
 
Plus, 120,000 ethnic Armenians living in Azerbaijan are facing an uncertain future after Azerbaijan seized control of their enclave and a lightning military offensive. Stay with us.
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BRUNHUBER: For the first time in decades, the ethnic Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh is in the hands of the Azerbaijani government. What that means for 120,000 people living there isn't clear, but Armenians fear the worst. On Wednesday, Armenian separatists in the enclave bowed to Azerbaijani's overwhelming military force and agreed to lay down their arms. Talks aimed at integrating the territory into Azerbaijan are set to begin today. Azerbaijan and Armenia have fought over this disputed territory twice before, but Azerbaijani's lightning fast offensive on Tuesday proved too much. Local authorities report that at least 200 deaths and hundreds more injured during that offensive, which lasted about 24 hours. Azerbaijani's president later announced the military operation was over. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ILHAM ALIYEV, AZERBAIJANI PRESIDENT (through translator): As a result of the start and successful completion of the anti-terrorist measures, Azerbaijan restored the sovereignty. In just one day, Azerbaijan completed all the tasks set within the framework of local anti- terrorist measures. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRUNHUBER: The sudden collapse of the Nagorno-Karabakh quickly led to the angry protests in the Armenian capital. CNN's Nic Robertson has more on the story from London. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Casualties from Azerbaijan's deadly artillery assault rushed to hospital in the majority Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh. The Armenian death toll growing as the historic foe's fragile peace explodes into dangerous warfare, with potentially disastrous consequences.
 
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: We are concerned, and it is important that both parties now de-escalate.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): A ceasefire agreed Wednesday, but they've been here before, two wars in the past 30 years over the disputed region.
 
But in June, Azerbaijan began blocking the strategic Lachin corridor, the only link between Armenia proper and the 120,000 people living in the enclave, internationally recognized as part of Azerbaijan. Humanitarian aid convoys were denied access. Russian peacekeepers couldn't or wouldn't get them through. Food and fuel in the enclave were in short supply.
 
Respected international lawyer Luis Marino Ocampo wrote a legal opinion, calling the blockade genocide. Azerbaijan disputes his analysis.
 
And in recent weeks, Armenians claimed Azerbaijani forces were massing weapons, readying for a new offensive. Tuesday, their fears of attack were realized. The enclave's de-facto capital, Stepanakert, echoing to gun and artillery fire frightened women and children cowering in the street.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): You don't know how to live in such a situation, how to raise your children, when you constantly live in stress, tension, and no one wants to help you.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Civilian homes smashed, as Azerbaijani officials claim they've launched an offensive against terrorists. Demanded the Armenian army leave, and the Nagorno-Karabakh government disband and depart. Armenia denies it's the aggressor.
 
EU politicians, while calling for calm, also calling out Russia's peacekeepers in action, and Azerbaijan's intransigence.
 
ROBERTSON: The fear for many Armenians is that Azerbaijan's terms for the cease-fire will be so tough, they will feel forced to leave Nagorno-Karabakh. And that, they say would be ethnic cleansing.
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
BRUNHUBER: India is urging its citizens in Canada to be careful. Now without providing any evidence, India's External Affairs Ministry warned they could face anti-India sentiment and politically condoned hate crimes. 
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
This comes just days after the Canadian Prime Minister accused the Indian government of possibly playing a role in the assassination of a Sikh leader in Canada. CNN's Paul Newton picks up the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It was Father's Day this past June when Hardeep Singh Nijjar left the temple he led, got into his truck and called home to say he'd be there soon for a family dinner.
 
But within minutes, Canadian police, Singh Nijjar was shot several times and lay bleeding in his driver's seat. By any measure, a gruesome killing carried out on the streets of Surrey, British Columbia, in the heart of the Sikh community.
 
Police say at least two masked men, described as heavier set, fled on foot and then into a silver Toyota. They were last spotted blocks away from the temple and there hasn't been a trace of them since.
 
Canada has now implicated India in this killing and that has led to more fear in this community. More questions about police protection here, given authorities warn Nijjar that his life was threatened. His son says the community has a message for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
 
BALRAJ NIJJAR, SON: Sikhs all around the world believe this is not the end. We expect more from you.
 
NEWTON (voice-over): Many are asking why this crime has yet to be solved and want more evidence to be made public. Jagmeet Singh is the leader of the New Democratic Opposition Party and a member of the Sikh community. And he has received an intelligence briefing on the evidence.
 
JAGMEET SINGH, CANADIAN OPPOSITION LEADER: I received a briefing that outlined some of the -- of what information we have. And I trust the work of our security forces. These are very, very serious intelligence reports that have come forward and now requires a serious response.
 
NEWTON: Despite Canada's allegations, it has had little influence on the Indian government. Both countries have traded travel advisories, diplomatic expulsions, but neither the murder case nor this political issue is any closer to being resolved.
 
UJJAL DOSANJH, FORMER PREMIER OF BRITISH COLUMBIA: I mean, my question is this. If you know -- if you know India made it happen, then you must know who pulled the trigger. If you know who pulled the trigger, who are they? Why are they not arrested?
 
NEWTON (voice-over): Ujjal Dosanjh is a former premier of British Columbia and former federal cabinet minister. He says Canada needs to disclose more evidence. Because without it, he says, this incident could set relations back decades.
 
DOSANJH: Government of India rightly distrusts Mr. Trudeau. And Mr. Trudeau obviously, you know, talks about freedom of expression. But I think that separatists in this country have gone beyond exercising the freedom of expression.
 
NEWTON (voice-over): Canada's allies seem to be sticking firmly on the sidelines of this conflict. The Biden administration says India should fully cooperate with the investigation but adds India is a vitally important ally. To that end, India and the United States are sponsoring a military conference in India next week. And an Indian military commander says Canada is set to be there too.
 
Paula Newton, CNN, Ottawa.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) BRUNHUBER: All right, still ahead. New polling on the state of the
 
 U.S. presidential race. The field appears to be shifting for some Republican candidates. Who's on the rise? Who's falling behind? That is next. Stay with us. 
 <br>[04:30:00]