Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: London Gears Up for the Coronation of King Charles III; Head of Russian Mercenary Group Wagner Threatens to Pull Out of Bakhmut; Strong U.S. Jobs Report Complicates Inflation Fight. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired May 05, 2023 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:00] 
 
ISA SOARES, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, we are coming to you live outside 
 
 Buckingham Palace on the eve of course of King Charles III's coronation. It has just gone 7 O'clock, and just meters away from where I am from where 
 
 the king himself stepped out today to greet well-wishers a few hours ago. 
 
Have a look at this footage, we'll have much more, of course, on tomorrow's once in a generation event throughout this hour. Plus, the other headlines 
 
 we are following for you, and that includes the head of the Russian mercenary group, Wagner, threatening to pull out of Bakhmut. Then, a 
 
 stellar U.S. jobs report that makes the Federal Reserve's job even trickier when it comes to inflation. 
 
And then, a shocking spike in ocean temperatures even by climate crisis standards. Now, we'll have all those stories, of course, in just a moment. 
 
 We'll begin here in London. In just a matter of hours, the world will witness something many people have never seen, in fact, in their lifetimes. 
 
 And that is the crowning of a new British monarch, King Charles III. 
 
Final preparations are well underway ahead of Saturday's ceremony that will be taking place at Westminster Abbey. The king, along with the prince and 
 
 princess of Wales, greeted people today on the Mall here in London, it is not very far from where I am. Earlier today, as you see there, thousands of 
 
 people have been camping out along tomorrow's procession route, as security, including firearms officers and facial recognition technology is 
 
 ramped up and rolled out. 
 
Salma Abdelaziz is on the Mall where many royal super fans have been gathering. And Salma, I think that, you know, that surprise, that visit by 
 
 the king and the prince and princess of Wales, took many people by surprise. 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It was an absolute morale boost, Isa. As you can see this tent city all across the Mall has just been building. 
 
 So that little walk, about that little meet and greet meant so much to people here, who are of course, royal super fans. And they -- to have that 
 
 opportunity, to get that preview ahead of tomorrow meant so much. And I want to introduce you to two of those royal super fans, Milley (ph) and her 
 
 mom Judith (ph). 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Hello -- 
 
ABDELAZIZ: You guys just had a tea party here, which I have to say, I'm jealous of. Tell me about how you've been celebrating while camping out? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh, my goodness! So, we've just been having fun with it, which is what you can do to pass the time. And so we had a tea party, 
 
 cake, sandwiches, scone or scones -- don't hate me for how you pronounce it, and a little bit of prosecco -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And then we've just been cheering. 
 
ABDELAZIZ: It's absolutely wonderful. And Judith, what does it mean -- what does it mean to you to be here with your daughter on such a once in a 
 
 lifetime event? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Well, it means so much because my mother was here, my grandmother was here, so much that we're still doing the same thing. It 
 
 means so much. 
 
ABDELAZIZ: And I've heard people describe this as part of their national identity. Could you explain that to me as mom and daughter? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes! I just -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I don't know? That's a difficult one, that's difficult -- 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I just can't imagine like not doing it -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Not doing it -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Like whenever -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You see pictures of it or videos of it, it's just -- how can you not be there? Like that -- I suppose that's what it is about 
 
 being -- of your national identity. It's got to -- you've got to be there to like look at the pictures and say you were there. So yes -- 
 
ABDELAZIZ: That's absolutely wonderful. I wish you both the best of luck with him being out tonight and on a big day. And you really feel that 
 
 sentiment echoed all down this mall. Isa, you've heard from the palace, of course, that they want this to feel like it is an inclusive, diverse event. 
 
 They want the public to be a part of it, and absolutely, for the people here, that's what it's about, witnessing that moment in history. Isa. 
 
SOARES: Yes, and I love that they come camped out with, you know, scones, prosecco, I'm guessing they're going to stay there for the evening. If 
 
 you've still got them, Salma, can you just ask them what King Charles means to them? How -- what kind of -- you know, what kind of monarch they think 
 
 he will be if you've still got them with you? 
 
ABDELAZIZ: Judith (ph) and Milley (ph), we have one more question for you if you ladies don't mind. Because Isa, who I'm speaking to, my colleague, 
 
 we just wanted to ask, what does King Charles mean to you? Because you saw that walk about, you're waiting for that glimpse tomorrow. What does he 
 
 mean? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He means he's the king. I think he's so hardworking, he's very consistent. And ye -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Oh -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: At least, he's wonderful! 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I like how he does so much work and doesn't yell or shout about it. Like whenever you go museums, he's opened there or you 
 
 know, he's just done -- he's just done a lot. So, he's like a nice -- it's nice to see him become king. 
 
ABDELAZIZ: Thank you both so much. Thank you. And all along the mall, of course, Isa, as you've heard, royal dignitaries have been passing, the 
 
 guests have been passing through, you see them with their caravans, police escort them any time anyone passes this mall, you'll hear this crowd just 
 
 cheering them on. I mean, I even saw them cheering on a construction worker passing through.
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
I mean, that is just how high the mood is here. 
 
SOARES: Hey, because, you know, he's done a lot of work, that construction worker, too. So, let's applaud everyone. Salma, appreciate it, thanks very 
 
 much. We'll have much more, of course, on this story ahead this hour, from the CEO of the Princess Trust Charity, to the composer whose music will be 
 
 the soundtrack of tomorrow's big event. 
 
We have a host of unique perspectives on this historic event. For now, though, let me bring you up to date with the other headlines we have 
 
 following this hour. Ukraine says it could be a turning point in the months-long battle for Bakhmut. A private Russian paramilitary group is 
 
 vowing to withdraw from the frontlines within days, blaming Russia's military for a lack of ammunition, as well as support. 
 
Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin posted a grizzly video online, standing in front of rows of corpses that he said were his fighters killed in the 
 
 eastern Ukrainian city. He unleashed a blistering personal tirade against Russia's military leaders, calling them fat cats who sit around in luxury 
 
 offices while his men bleed to death in the field. 
 
Let's get more now from our Nic Robertson who joins me now from eastern Ukraine. And Nic, you and I have been talking about Bakhmut now for months. 
 
 So how significant is this, and what does this mean for Bakhmut and for that counteroffensive? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Well, even Ukrainian military officials say that Wagner under Yevgeny Prigozhin has made a huge 
 
 difference for the fight -- for the Russian fight for Bakhmut. He's sacrificed thousands upon thousands of lives, many of them of conscripts 
 
 just out of jail, given weapons and put into the fight. 
 
But he has actually taken ground that the Russian military hasn't been able to take, and has crowed about this a lot. And he's used it to his advantage 
 
 to try to score points off of his sort of military opposite numbers, if you will, at the Kremlin, the Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, the defense chief 
 
 of staff as well. But he's tried to sort of bake himself up, get one over on them. 
 
But it feels like it's getting -- these divisions are getting more vitriolic. And the threat to pull out his troops, potentially means that 
 
 some of the gains that the Russians have made at huge cost, could be lost. As we know, Ukraine is poised for a counteroffensive. They will want to 
 
 push wherever they can, all along the frontline. They'll have places where they'll hope to breakthrough and other places where they'll hope to take 
 
 territory, and Bakhmut will very likely, as likely as anywhere else, be a place where they would hope to make gains. 
 
So, it would really work well for the Ukrainians if Prigozhin were to pull his troops out. But the analysis here is, quite simply, that Prigozhin 
 
 really has no other choice, because if he keeps losing a 100 troops a day, which is what one military spokesman here said. If he loses a 100 troops a 
 
 day, at the rate that he's been losing them in the past, and if he continues, he'll essentially break the back of Wagner, and that's 
 
 destructive for him and he can't afford it. 
 
So, he'll have no option but to pull out of the fight. That also would be a victory for the Ukrainians as well, and perhaps, make it worthwhile that 
 
 they absorb so many casualties in Bakhmut themselves, taking on it seems weakening Wagner. It depends a lot, I guess, on ultimately, how President 
 
 Putin responds to all this, and a clue to that maybe, Sergei Shoigu, the Defense Minister visited Russia's southern command, not in Ukraine, but in 
 
 Russia, and inspected what we're told were new military hardware. 
 
Obviously, it begs the question, why weren't the troops getting it sooner? Certainly, that would be a Prigozhin type of question. But you can see 
 
 those divisions getting deeper, and it doesn't benefit Russia's fight. 
 
SOARES: Yes, and this rift between Prigozhin and the Kremlin has been ongoing for a while, and every time he steps out and he comments about the 
 
 lack, of course, of support and military hardware, we get a reaction from the Kremlin. The Kremlin seems to deliver, at least, some of it. Do you 
 
 think the Kremlin will move on this, will give him what he wants or do you think, or do you take his word here that he will leave in a matter of days? 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
ROBERTSON: You know, I think what's interesting here is that Sergei Shoigu has done something, and it looks good, but it's probably, maybe not -- 
 
 doesn't have much substance to it. A few weeks ago when Sergei Shoigu was in the same position, he said some of the same things, oh, we need to look 
 
 at the supply chains, oh, commander need to say when there are problems with the supply chains. 
 
But the problems with the supply chains go to the defense chief, so responsible for getting the raw materials into the armaments factories, 
 
 stepping them up to three shifts a day, seven days a week, getting those armaments to the frontlines, including that whole process. It's breaking 
 
 down. But I think that, you know, what Prigozhin is doing is, he's doing essentially Putin's bidding by giving Putin fall guys within the Kremlin.
 
Sergei Shoigu, for example, the defense minister, is a fall guy if this war doesn't go well in Ukraine, or is Shoigu -- or is Prigozhin; that Wagner 
 
 boss, trying to give himself an increased political position. So, one thing that he's done and he announced today, I think is significant in that, last 
 
 week, the Kremlin fired one of the deputy defense ministers. Well, today -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
ROBERTSON: Prigozhin took that guy into Wagner and made him a deputy -- made him one of his deputies within Wagner. That, I think tells you that 
 
 Prigozhin has allies within the -- within the Russia's Defense Ministry. Now that, when you're looking from the outside, looks hugely destructive, 
 
 and looks like Prigozhin building himself some kind of political foothold, challenge Putin or just be a -- try to do Putin's bidding. 
 
SOARES: Such important in context and analysis there from our Nic Robertson in eastern Ukraine. Thanks very much, Nic. Now, a suspect in another mass 
 
 shooting in Serbia is now under arrest. Officials say a 21-year-old man killed at least eight people in a shooting near the Serbian capital, just a 
 
 day earlier, if you remember, police say a 13-year-old boy killed eight students and a security guard at a school in Belgrade. Our Scott McLean has 
 
 the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Well, this part of Serbia is breathing a huge sigh of relief after the suspect in this country's second 
 
 mass shooting in just two days was arrested after a massive overnight manhunt that involved some 600 heavily-armed police officers. There was a 
 
 huge police presence across a huge swath of this country. 
 
Checkpoints set up, we were actually searched, our vehicle was searched going into one of the villages were shots were actually fired. And in that 
 
 same village, we met a man who shortly after news of the shooting broke, he was mistaken for the shooter himself. He says he was arrested and held by 
 
 police for more than an hour. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Now, I am feeling OK, because it is over. So, we are on the one hand, happy because it's over. On the other hand, I'm scared about 
 
 the whole situation. 
 
MCLEAN: That man and his family hunkered down inside of their house overnight. He only felt comfortable coming out when he knew that the 
 
 suspect had been apprehended. Police say that they found him with four hand grenades on him. He's accused of carrying out the attack using a fully 
 
 automatic weapon, something that is illegal in Serbia. 
 
Now, in response to Wednesday's deadly mass shooting inside of an elementary school in Belgrade, carried out by a 13-year-old boy, lawmakers 
 
 propose legislation for a two-year moratorium on any new gun licenses after this latest mass shooting in rural Serbia, President Vucic says they're 
 
 going to go even further, clamping down tougher on gun restrictions and a mandatory buyback scheme for those who can't meet the tougher new 
 
 condition.
 
The president said that great nations manage to find solutions after tragedies. Scott McLean, CNN, in rural Serbia. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: Well, the April jobs report is now in. Numbers show the U.S. added more jobs than expected, 253,000, wage growth was also higher, which is 
 
 great news, of course, for workers, but maybe, not so much for the Federal Reserve. Earlier this week, the Fed, remember, hinted it could pause rate 
 
 hikes going forward. 
 
We are keeping a close eye on Wall Street, where the Dow is doing fairly well, almost 1.5 percent, 463 points up. Rahel Solomon from CNN Business is 
 
 standing by. So, Rahel, the Dow Jones likes what it sees, but there'll be strong set of numbers, strong consumer numbers as well, but high inflation. 
 
 So talk us through this contradiction and what that may mean for the Fed? 
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT: Right, Isa, well, it's a jobs report that indicates the labor market is heating back up at a time when 
 
 the Fed would actually like the economy to cool back down, right? As it tries to get inflation closer to its 2 percent target. Inflation here in 
 
 the U.S., at least, CPI, coming at about 5 percent. So still a ways to go. 
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
When you look at the report, Isa, you see U.S. employers added 250,000 jobs in the month of April, that was much stronger than most economists were 
 
 expecting. The unemployment rate ticked back to 3.4 percent, that is tying a 50-year low. When you look at just some of the jobs added over the last 
 
 year or so, you can see that on a monthly basis, 253 cooler than some of the months we have seen, but we did get downward revisions for the month of 
 
 March, up for the month of February as well. 
 
When you look at sort of where we saw job gains, Isa, it was pretty broad- based, professional and business services, think accountants, healthcare, think nursing facilities, leisure and hospitality, adding 31,000. Now, I 
 
 should say that leisure and hospitality continues that really strong jobs growth month after month, but, Isa, important to remember here that, that 
 
 industry is still about 400,000 jobs below where it was before the pandemic. 
 
So, in a lot of ways, that's an injury that is still catching up. So how do we put this in perspective for the Fed? What is the Fed thinking perhaps 
 
 when they see a report like this? Well, there are actually some silver- linings here for the Fed, as you pointed out, Isa, wages did increase on a monthly basis more than economists were expecting. 
 
Wages increased 0.5 percent, the expectation was closer to 0.3 percent. But when you actually look at a three-month moving average, when you smoothed 
 
 out the three months, it's actually moderating. So, the Fed has to be encouraged to see that. Also, participation, the participation rate among 
 
 prime-aged Americans, that also ticked up as we saw more women enter the workforce. 
 
We also saw more women of color enter the workforce. So there are some areas where the Fed can be encouraged, but you're right, it's sort of a 
 
 walking contradiction here. The U.S. labor market sort of heating back up at a time when the Fed would like it to cool down a bit. But not seeing 
 
 that in this report. But good news for American workers for sure, and of course, as huge implications for consumer spending, the largest economy in 
 
 the -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
SOLOMON: World, and also, the Fed. 
 
SOARES: Thank you very much, Rahel Solomon, great to see you. Thank you. And still to come tonight, it is the charity, the actor Idris Elba credits 
 
 with starting his career. Find out how the king has helped more than a million disadvantaged young people right around the world. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SOARES: Welcome back, everyone. One of King Charles' most enduring achievements is his youth charity, the Prince's Trust. Among the long list 
 
 of people it has helped over the years, after Idris Elba, rock band, the Seraphoenix and the musician Dynamo, who will be at tomorrow's coronation, 
 
 founded by Charles when he was the Prince of Wales, the trust helps disadvantaged young people, aged 11 through 30, get into work. 
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
Since it was started 47 years ago, it has become a global network of charities operating in 23 countries. Today, get this, it has helped more 
 
 than a million young people. Well, I'm joined now by Will Straw; the CEO of Prince's Trust and Akeme Cox who works with the Trust. Gentlemen, great to 
 
 have you here, and they're both, by the way, going tomorrow to the coronation inside the Westminster Abbey. 
 
Let me start first, Will, just explain to our viewers around the world, million young people, that is an incredible amount of people that they 
 
 helped. What does this moment, do you think, mean to so many of those who have been helped by the charity? 
 
WILL STRAW, CEO, PRINCE'S TRUST: It's incredible legacy from the king, who founded the charity in 1976, with his severance pay from leaving the 
 
 British Navy, and he used that money to support some community projects, which led to the creation of the Princes' Trust, which over those years has 
 
 supported young people into work, to set up their own business, and to complete their education. 
 
And it's now expanded from the U.K. to 23 countries around the world, as you said. So, for so many young people facing disadvantage, facing 
 
 challenges, have had the Trust there to help them with an education, employability or enterprise programs, to find that meaningful work, to find 
 
 that sense of dignity, and to succeed in their lives. 
 
SOARES: And Akeme, how has the Prince's Trust helped you? 
 
AKEME COX, PRINCE'S TRUST: So the Prince's Trust has changed my life completely. I did a program in 2016, I was recommended by a friend, you 
 
 know? I would say I was a slave to popular thinking, so, I was just trying to fit in, and only ambition I had was to be a drug dealer. After doing the 
 
 program, it changed my life, you know? I found purpose, because the Prince's Trust Program is the perfect soil for young people to grow, you 
 
 know, and find purpose. 
 
And now, I've had dinner at Buckingham Palace, I'm invited to the coronation, so it just goes to show how invested his majesty is in young 
 
 people. 
 
SOARES: Have you met him? 
 
COX: So, I have met him about four times already. 
 
SOARES: OK, tell me, what is he like? 
 
COX: He's really down to earth, like some would think that he is -- he thinks he's up on a pedestal, well, he's a really down to earth person. And 
 
 he makes sure -- he makes sure that you have -- you're comfortable when you're having a conversation with him. 
 
SOARES: So, this element of the king is something that he is trying to convey in tomorrow's coronation, to make it accessible, relatable. We saw 
 
 him today during the royal walkabouts. What do you think that young people -- because we've heard so much about how in terms of polling, that young 
 
 people are not, they don't relate to the monarchy. 
 
From the conversations you've had with young people, those who have met the king, what have they told you? 
 
STRAW: I think very similar to what Akeme just said, that he's very down to earth, but he really cares about young people, and he cares about the 
 
 Prince's Trust and the work that we've been doing around the world. We're very fortunate tomorrow, that along with Akeme, we've got nine other young 
 
 people who have been through programs from India, from Jordan, from Nigeria, from Kenya, from Canada, New Zealand, Australia, as well as 
 
 Barbados. 
 
And these young people have been through programs, and they're now working in dream jobs or setting up -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
STRAW: Their own businesses. And I think it's sort of an enduring legacy of the king, as well as those young people, as you mentioned, Dynamo, the 
 
 magician -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
STRAW: Will be there tomorrow, the lead singer of Seraphoenix, Charlotte Mensah who went through the Prince's Trust Program and has now set up one 
 
 of London and the U.K.'s greatest hair businesses. So, you know, these people who go on to great things, thanks to the work of the Prince's Trust. 
 
 And I think that for young people is what the Prince's Trust -- 
 
SOARES: And what will happen Will, once of course, the king takes this important step? What will happen to the Prince's Trust? Will it continue 
 
 work -- continue to work with the Prince's Trust? 
 
STRAW: Well, we're very fortunate because he's confirmed that he'll remain the president -- 
 
SOARES: Oh, that's fantastic -- 
 
STRAW: Of the Prince's Trust. So we've already seen in the period since he became king, that he has visited Prince's Trust programs around the U.K., 
 
 and I'm sure in the years ahead, as there are more state visits, he'll visit Prince's Trust programs around the world as well. 
 
SOARES: Akeme, right, so are you nervous about tomorrow? This is really important now. Are you nervous about the ceremony tomorrow? 
 
COX: No, I'm not nervous -- 
 
SOARES: You're not? 
 
COX: Because I know he will make sure that everyone is comfortable. 
 
SOARES: And who do you want to see? Who would you like to meet when you're there? Because you've met the king, come on! 
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
COX: I would like to see him for sure and congratulate him. 
 
SOARES: Because you have so many dignitaries there -- 
 
COX: Yes -- 
 
SOARES: So many people who have done such incredible work for the community. That's also wonderful to see leaders from around the world. Is 
 
 there someone that you're looking forward to meeting? 
 <br>[14:25:00] 
 
COX: There's -- 
 
SOARES: Don't be shy! 
 
COX: There's Lionel Richie and Dave Thomas (ph), of course -- 
 
SOARES: Oh, there you go -- 
 
COX: Yes, I met them already, but they are close friends to me, yes. 
 
STRAW: Yes, because Lionel is a global ambassador -- 
 
SOARES: Ambassador, right? I did, yes -- 
 
STRAW: The Prince's Trust, and he and his co-ambassador, Edward Enninful, the editor of "Vogue" hosted Global Gala for us in New York -- 
 
SOARES: In New York -- 
 
STRAW: Last week, where young people from our programs again came and spoke, and we had a fantastic fundraising effort, and we'll be able to 
 
 support many more young people in the back of that. And I think it shows the legacy of the king and the incredible power of the Prince's Trust and 
 
 its programs that you know, renowned global figures like Lionel Richie -- 
 
SOARES: Yes -- 
 
STRAW: Are willing to support the work that we do. 
 
SOARES: And Akeme, final words to you, if you were to describe the king in a few words, three words, three adjectives. How would you describe him? 
 
COX: The best king. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SOARES: All right, keeping it short, I like -- 
 
COX: Yes -- 
 
SOARES: Akeme, great to meet you, well, thank you very much. 
 
COX: Thanks so much. 
 
SOARES: And still to come tonight, security for Saturday's coronation will be like nothing London has seen before. We get the details on what officers 
 
 are calling Operation Golden Orb, we'll explain all that after this short break. You are watching CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
SOARES: Welcome back, everyone. Saturday will be the biggest ceremonial event in the U.K. since Queen Elizabeth's coronation 70 years ago, and you 
 
 can bet security is going to be top-notch. More than 11,000 police officers will patrol on the streets on Saturday. Firearms officers, mounted police, 
 
 there will even be live facial recognition technology, all part of what the police call Operation Golden Orb. 
 
Securities also on alert for planned demonstrations by anti-monarchists. I want to bring in former Royal Protection Officer, Simon Morgan. Simon, 
 
 thanks very much for coming in. 
 
SIMON MORGAN, FORMER ROYAL PROTECTION OFFICER: My pleasure. 
 <br>[14:30:00]
 
SOARES: This is a huge challenge, of course, for the police. I'm sure they will be able to meet it, and there will be multi-layer. Just talk us 
 
 through the size, the numbers and what you think we would be looking out for here? 
 
MORGAN: Yes, it's another large policing operation. This is the third within the last 12 months that we've had here. And, yes, the threat is 
 
 quite complex. It's quite varied. And when you, kind of, look at it, you've got to be proportionate in all your responses to that. Yes, we have 
 
 international terrorism, which sits at the top and then we work our way through the other issues, such as the fixated individual, as you mentioned, 
 
 the protesters, the single-cause issues, the people are going to use tomorrow's event to highlight their issues. 
 
SOARES: Right. And there wasn't a -- there was -- something happened here on Tuesday as well, in terms of security. Has that changed, do you think, 
 
 the level of the security panel -- the initial level of security plans? 
 
MORGAN: I don't think so. I think it justifies the plan. 
 
SOARES: Right. 
 
MORGAN: Because, you know, we know the fixated threat is out there. And that's very much been highlighted. And I think when you go back and look at 
 
 the incident itself, lots of policing is measured on the response. And there was a response. Uniformed officers dealt with the gentleman very 
 
 quickly, was taken into custody and removed. If there had been no response -- 
 
SOARES: Then that would be -- 
 
MORGAN: -- then that would have been a different conversation for the commanders. But, you know, there was a response. It's in the plan already. 
 
 So, I think that just -- it doesn't take anything away. But they know that there's a robust enough plan to deal with an incident like that. 
 
SOARES: And of course, there's -- we see the police officers in front of us, but what else are we not seeing that is working behind the scenes? I 
 
 know you won't want to give me -- away all the details, which is going to send off just how broad this is, how wide this operation is. 
 
MORGAN: I mean, it's another big policing operation for the Metropolitan Police Service. And indeed, U.K. policing, because the met can't do it on 
 
 their own. They have to bring extra officers in from the rest of the country. And whilst you do that, you also still have to police -- 
 
SOARES: Everywhere else. 
 
MORGAN: -- the rest of the country, you know, and London as well. We're in a -- this is the London Borough of Westminster. We're only using a small 
 
 bit of the London Borough of Westminster and the rest of it still has to function as do the 31 other boroughs as well. So, all the offices here that 
 
 you've seen, you alluded to firearms officers, and Mounted branch, and search dogs and route liners, all those uniformed police officers, yes, 
 
 that's a vital part. 
 
But then it's the bit that you don't see, the spotters, the rifle officers, the observers in the helicopter, the people who are monitoring the crowd, 
 
 the crowd dynamics, how is this crowd moving through London. So lots of things go into tomorrow's event, some of which are very visible, and some 
 
 of which kind of aren't. 
 
SOARES: And, of course, we've mentioned facial recognition there. This is something -- is this the first time it's being used on a -- 
 
MORGAN: On a large-scale event like this, you know. It's just another tool that is being used to keep people safe. So, yes, it's met with a little bit 
 
 of hostile -- hostility and a bit of weariness about its use. But it's just -- 
 
SOARES: Yes, because not everyone's like the idea of that, but I think, you know, being in London -- 
 
MORGAN: But you've got to be on the database -- 
 
SOARES: -- everywhere, we're being filmed -- we're been seen all the time here, right? 
 
MORGAN: Yes, I mean, London is the most -- 
 
SOARES: Here in London. 
 
MORGAN: -- the biggest -- is the capital that has the most number of CCTV cameras in the world. So you know, you're constantly being observed. When 
 
 it comes to facial recognition, you have to be on the database. So, you've already kind of come to police attention, or you're part of the 
 
 intelligence picture, which therefore doesn't affect the majority of people who are going to turn up tomorrow to enjoy the event. 
 
SOARES: Sorry, very quickly, I'm not sure if we had the video of, you know, King Charles and the Prince of Wales, the Princes of Wales today in the 
 
 royal walk about something like that, that -- to the people here in the mail was so spontaneous. Talk to me about the security of something like 
 
 this, what you would have to consider. 
 
MORGAN: Everything. Simply everything, you know. You are putting a senior member of the British Royal Family now in the public domain, you know. As a 
 
 protection officer, you're on that principle shoulder, and you're looking at that crowd, you know. You're looking for what you expect to see, what 
 
 you don't expect to see. And I think with modern monarchy, the dynamics have changed quite considerably, you know. They want to go and meet the 
 
 public. You know, the selfies, thankfully a phenomenon I didn't have to deal with, but now it's one, and that's a -- that's quite a personable 
 
 space kind of issue. 
 
But as the protection team, you've got to allow that to happen, because that's your principal's wishes. You have to manage that space. 
 
SOARES: Lots of challenges. Simon, appreciate it. Best of luck. 
 
MORGAN: My pleasure. Thank you very much. 
 
SOARES: Thank you very much. 
 
And still to come tonight, there's more on to the climate crisis than just fossil fuels and global warming. The surprise culprit that may be playing a 
 
 role in record high ocean temperatures just ahead with Bill Weir. Thank you. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:36:57]
 
SOARES: Now ocean temperatures are off the charts. Surface heat levels hitting record-breaking levels in mid-March. And scientists are scrambling 
 
 now to figure out why. It goes without saying the ocean water heating up like this is, of course, extremely dangerous. Bleaching coral, killing 
 
 marine life, and increasing, of course, the actual sea level. And although global warming due to fossil fuels is widely discussed, we've discussed 
 
 that at length on the show. An author in a new study published last month says there may be an extra culprit. 
 
CNN's Bill Weir has been looking into this new data. So Bill, what do scientists things could be behind this jump in surface temperature now? Who 
 
 -- what's the culprit? 
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: It could be that the El Nino warming pattern, which has been gone for a couple -- three years, we've had 
 
 a lot of Nino cooling pattern in the Pacific. That could be starting early. That's definitely going to come and make things much warmer. 
 
But the most interesting possible culprit is behind me. In 2020, the big shipping container ships, the ship lines around the world switched to fuel 
 
 that puts less sulfur into the sky. That's good, of course, for our lungs, for surface pollution. But it turns out that that might have been an 
 
 accidental sunscreen for decades, actually masking the amount of warming that's actually happening. 
 
And now that the skies are clear of that sulfur, we're feeling the warming effects. If it's a half a degree or a full degree, we really don't know. 
 
 There's also volcanic activity, wildfire debris that puts material high into the stratosphere that could either be deflecting or accelerating the 
 
 clouds depending on how close they are altitude-wise, or either helping warm or cool. It's a complex system. That's why there's no interesting 
 
 culprit right now. But, of course, when you're hitting off the charts highs as we did before, before El Nino starts, huge, huge concerns that this may 
 
 be a really disastrous tipping point.
 
SOARES: And just break down for us here, Bill, the real impact then of hotter oceans, I'm thinking of marine life on sea level, what are we 
 
 talking about here?
 
WEIR: It affects so many different things. It affects sea level rise, warmer water takes up more space, so the coastal areas will have to deal 
 
 with faster adaptation. It means coral bleaching, as you talked about. Those reefs are the cradles of sea life for the oceans, entire, you know, 
 
 fish stocks, like cod, moving out of the Gulf of Maine because the water is just too warm, affecting fishing industries as well. It means stronger 
 
 hurricanes and cyclones. And it affects just weather patterns in ways that we don't fully understand between these atmospheric rivers in California or 
 
 the big droughts now in the Horn of Africa. All of this is related. 
 
SOARES: Bill Weir there for us. Thanks very much, Bill. Appreciate it. 
 
And still to come tonight, "The King and I." The documentary maker who've seen King Charles in a way few others have. We speak to him next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:42:33]
 
SOARES: Welcome back, everyone. We are only hours away from the coronation of King Charles III. And as the world waits for an event that seven years -
 
 - 70 years in the making, one man has had an insight into the royal family and like few others in history. John Bridcut is an award winning-filmmaker, 
 
 known for documentaries like his recent portrait of Charles at 70. From the king's passion for the environment to the fact he reads Harry Potter to the 
 
 royal children. Bridcut's work shows the royal family is at heart as human as any other. Have a look at this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHARLES III, KING OF THE UNITED KINGDOM: I ended up becoming heir to the throne age four. 
 
PRINCE HARRY, DUKE OF SUSSEX: His sole job was to sit quietly away. He was one of the first people in the family to end up making the most of that 
 
 role. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He's driven by this passion. He'd like to save the world. 
 
CHARLES III: I cannot believe that people can pay no attention to science. They accept it in every other aspect of modern existence, the evidence, but 
 
 apparently not the climate change. 
 
PRINCE HARRY: This is a man who has dinner ridiculously late at night and then goes to his desk and will fall asleep on his notes to the point of 
 
 where he'll wake up with a piece of paper stuck to his face. 
 
CHARLES III: He's off. Well, you can't just sit back. That's fatal. 
 
WILLIAM, PRINCE OF WALES: I would like him to have more time with children. Because when he's there, he's brilliant. But we need him there as much as 
 
 possible. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He reads Harry Potter. He can do all the different voices and I think children ready appreciate that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: And to bring that window into a world few have ever seen quite like that captured, of course by filmmaker John Bridcut. And John joins me now. 
 
John, great to have you on the show. And what a privilege, I'm guessing in many ways, for you to be part of this, making these incredible 
 
 documentaries over the years. It's such an intimate moment to be with The King. What is he like? What have you learned over the years that you didn't 
 
 know when you started? 
 
JOHN BRIDCUT, FILMMAKER: He's very polite, very gracious, thoughtful, and very good company actually. You might think people talk about him having a 
 
 temper, but I never saw that. He was always incredibly patient and tolerant when we were putting the -- a radio mic on him for the third time in the 
 
 day. And he was -- I think he actually quite enjoyed it. He talked a lot to my crew, which was really nice. 
 <br>[14:45:02]
 
He talked to the cameraman and to the sound recordist about the -- 
 
SOARES: Not so much, isn't he, about the person? 
 
BRIDCUT: Yes. Exactly. He was really interested. And he was fascinated by the extent to which they took trouble compared with the sort of standard 
 
 doorstep stuff, which he's seen on the news. And so it was a very good relationship we had with him. You know, it was a real privilege, as you 
 
 say. And he was he was very engaging. 
 
SOARES: And you've, of course, interviewed many people from former prime ministers, to members of the royal family. How did the members, how did the 
 
 children, his children, how did they describe him?
 
BRIDCUT: Well, I remember Prince William talking about -- he said he's the fittest man he knows, but he just wishes he would spend more time with the 
 
 family, with the grandchildren. This was in the context of saying that he works so hard. And Prince Harry, you saw a clip there -- 
 
SOARES: In the little clip there, yeah. 
 
BRIDCUT: -- yes, where he, you know, he talks about the fact that he -- he's working so late at night that he falls asleep on the documents that 
 
 he's working on. And I know that, you know, I've been up at Burke Hall, which is his home in Scotland, near Balmoral. And his staff, you know, he 
 
 has a PA who is sort of taking dictation at midnight, and to get the letters ready in the morning, and he will do this after he's had a formal 
 
 dinner. And he'll then go and work, and he writes these letters. They're often dictated, but also he writes by hand, as we know. They're called the 
 
 black spider memos. 
 
But he -- he's very good at writing to people. And I've seen -- experienced that myself. 
 
SOARES: That's a sight of him that we really -- we rarely see, in fact, and there are so many causes that are dear to him. We know conservation, 
 
 climate change. What is it? What else did you learn over the years? 
 
BRIDCUT: Well -- and when we would -- 
 
SOARES: And then he likes the arts and the music, and the opera. 
 
BRIDCUT: I can tell you something that was really funny, because we were filming for his 60th birthday, again, at built -- Burke Hall in Scotland. 
 
 And when we've finished the film, we were doing an interview with him, just sort of wrap it up. And at the end, he said, would you like to come and see 
 
 something? And I said, yeah, yeah, bring the camera. And he went -- we went to the back door of Burke Hall, which is a little door off the kitchen, 
 
 really. And he had a bucket of nuts down by the door. And he sort of put them just inside the door. And these red squirrels came up and started 
 
 pinching up. And we were standing literally about two feet away, and they come up and take the nuts. 
 
And so we filmed this. And he said I really think I need to start a Red Squirrel Survival Trust. And we laughed. And then I -- 
 
SOARES: He's probably being serious about it. 
 
BRIDCUT: Well, I noticed that did happen. About six months later, there was a Red Squirrel Survival Trust. I mean, that was the level of his passion. 
 
SOARES: John, fascinating. So glad that you were able to share these details, so these little bits of information that we rarely would read 
 
 about. John, appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming in. 
 
BRIDCUT: Great pleasure, Isa. 
 
SOARES: Thank you. 
 
Now as King Charles walks through Westminster Abbey, adding, of course, to the atmosphere will be a specially composed piece of music, written by a 
 
 composer handpicked by the king. Patrick Doyle caught Charles's ear from his work petting Hollywood scores. His instructions from the King, make it 
 
 uplifting, triumphant, and memorable.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: For Scottish composer, Patrick Doyle, it was the call of a lifetime.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
PATRICK DOYLE, COMPOSER OF KING CHARLES III'S CORONATION MARCH: I was completely overwhelmed with that, blown away. I couldn't believe this. I 
 
 was not remotely expecting it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: His agent on the phone with a message from Buckingham Palace, asking him to compose the Coronation March for King Charles. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: What was that moment like?
 
DOYLE: It was very intimidating and very frightening for many, many reasons. I thought this is going to be watched by millions of people. Not 
 
 only that, it's King Charles, who's been very supportive of my career. It's a huge responsibility, it's such a historic day. It's got to be my best 
 
 work. 
 
SOARES: So, talk to us about the brief. What did the brief entail? 
 
DOYLE: He asked for it to be uplifting, triumphant, and memorable. So no pressure. And he asked if the piece could be composed within a parameter of 
 
 four minutes, because the whole deal was so well planned that it don't allow seconds literally. And it could be less than four minutes, but not a 
 
 second over four minutes. So I -- the piece came out eventually at 3:55 with reverb for the Abbey. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: Patrick Doyle is no stranger when it comes to writing music to strict timeframes. He spent the last 35 years composing in Hollywood, from 
 
 blockbusters like Harry Potter to Thor. 
 <br>[14:50:04]
 
And Disney's Pixar Brave. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: Which one's your favorite? I know it's like picking your favorite child, but which one's your favorite? 
 
BRIDCUT: Well, I certainly have such fond memories of my very first film, Henry V directed by Kenneth Branagh. That was an amazing, amazing 
 
 opportunity for me as it was my very first picture.
 
And the result of that, Prince Charles saw the film and subsequently commissioned me to write a piece for the Queen Mother's 90th birthday 
 
 because he loved the Non Nobis Domine, the choral piece that comes in near the end of that picture.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Non nobis domine, domine. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SOARES: Having had a long professional relationship with King Charles, Doyle wanted to make sure his music captured the monarch's character. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
BRIDCUT: It has four different sections to it. It opens in with a heraldic opening, which is ceremonial and full of pageantry. The second section sort 
 
 of moves along as a piece, like the March of Time, and has a strong Celtic influence -- 
 
SOARES: Nice. 
 
BRIDCUT: -- being Scottish. 
 
SOARES: Of course.
 
BRIDCUT: And the third movement is joyful and fun. It's a wonderful mimic. 
 
SOARES: He's very witty, isn't he? 
 
BRIDCUT: Very witty, and he loves a laugh. And the final movement is reflective of, I think, the romantic side of his character. And it's -- has 
 
 an uplifting ending building to a triumphant climax. 
 
SOARES: So you get the inspiration, obviously, from the man you've met. This is so important. But where -- how do you find that? How do you find 
 
 that inspiration? 
 
BRIDCUT: Inspiration comes from a million different places. I remember sitting ball up, my poor wife, and this idea came into my head of a trumpet 
 
 idea. So I grabbed the iPhone and sang into it, my poor, long suffering wife. And the -- 
 
SOARES: So she must be used to this. 
 
BRIDCUT: Yes, she very is much used to it. And the following morning, I listened to, and to my joy, it's had -- just as strong in the recording as 
 
 it is in my head. It's not always the case. So it's in the march.
 
SOARES: How does it feel going from, you know, Hollywood royalty to this, a real royalty? 
 
BRIDCUT: In my 17th year, at the height of my career, to have been asked to compose this iconic piece was an extraordinary privilege. And the thought 
 
 of being in the Abbey on the 6th is a stuff of dreams, really.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
SOARES: Just beautiful. 
 
Well, I want to get the thoughts now of what we could expect tomorrow from our Richard Quest. Richard, come on. This is the stuff -- 
 
RICHARD QUEST, CNN ANCHOR: That was wonderful. 
 
SOARES: Oh, thank you. Not nothing to do with me. 
 
QUEST: No, no. 
 
SOARES: It's all Mr Doyle's work. It's just -- and the inspiration that goes behind it. Look, this is momentous. Seventy years since -- the 
 
 majority of people have never seen the coronation. So -- 
 
QUEST: Yes. You can look at it at different levels. We can talk about the significance of monarchy, we could talk about the Charles versus Elizabeth 
 
 and William, or we can simply say this is a great day, where you're going to see a -- 
 
SOARES: I'm glad. 
 
QUEST: -- spectacle like nothing else. And for better or worse, this is what the U.K. -- I'm a British citizen, American citizen as well, but I'm a 
 
 British citizen, and I'm determined to enjoy it. 
 
SOARES: And although we've been told it is going to be a smaller ceremony, it's going to be simpler. But the grandeur, it's still going to have that 
 
 history, it's still going to have that pageantry. It'll still have that element that oh -- that it will be historical. It's going to go down in the 
 
 history books here. 
 
QUEST: I want to see the Supertunica, along with the Ampulla and the spoon. 
 
SOARES: Oh, he's been reading. 
 
QUEST: Oh, yes. 
 
SOARES: He's been reading the material we got. 
 
QUEST: Yes, yes. No. I mean, I have no idea why they have the Spurs and the armlets and the this, and the that. 
 
SOARES: Yes.
 
QUEST: And they're calling on one guy -- 
 
SOARES: And you're going to remember this for the rest of your life. 
 
QUEST: No. But it doesn't -- yeah. And all the -- do you know I did have earlier a five-pound bag of sugar because I wanted to see just what it was 
 
 like -- 
 
SOARES: To carry, yes. 
 
QUEST: -- to carry a five -- because the crown -- 
 
SOARES: Crown, yes. 
 
QUEST: -- by the way -- 
 
SOARES: Forget the crown. What about the carriage? It's -- 
 
QUEST: By the way, in previous times, they put the crowns on the wrong way. 
 
SOARES: Why? 
 
QUEST: By accident. 
 
SOARES: Oh. 
 
QUEST: In young Queen Victoria's time, they put the ring on the wrong finger. The Archbishop of Canterbury put the ring on the wrong finger and 
 
 she's took hours to take it off. 
 
SOARES: Well, they've been rehearsing. I think they've got -- 
 
QUEST: They have. Listen -- 
 
SOARES: And Richard, I would like to say that Richard baked this. This is a coronation quiche, everyone. 
 
QUEST: No. One of my colleagues baked it. Now, this is the -- 
 
SOARES: Explain what we have here for our viewers.
 
QUEST: OK. So for Elizabeth II, it was a coronation chicken.
 
SOARES: Yes. 
 
QUEST: Charles and Camilla, the King and Queen, decided to have coronation quiche. And there was -- 
 
SOARES: So there's pastry, flaky, and eggs and -- 
 <br>[14:55:01]
 
QUEST: And -- 
 
SOARES: -- what -- what is it? Is it -- 
 
QUEST: I can't remember the herb that's on it. But would you like to have the -- 
 
SOARES: These are -- 
 
QUEST: Would you like to have the first quiche as this is going? 
 
SOARES: I would like to. Yes. This sounds good. 
 
QUEST: Go on, yes, yes. You have the first treat. We'll be giving all our guests on QUEST MEANS BUSINESS some coronation quiche tonight. 
 
SOARES: This is very good. 
 
QUEST: Yeah. And that's how I finish the program. Now it's ready. 
 
SOARES: Where's the Prosecco? 
 
QUEST: Oh, Prosecco. There'll be a good English sparkling wine. Never mind a Prosecco. 
 
SOARES: A sparkling wine. 
 
QUEST: Never mind your -- 
 
SOARES: -- some Scones. Look, let me -- 
 
QUEST: We have got the CEO of Fortnum &amp; Mason. 
 
SOARES: I want some tea. 
 
QUEST: So we've got biscuits. 
 
SOARES: Oh. 
 
QUEST: Yeah, your show didn't have biscuits or coronation quiche. Got a bit of music, but didn't have coronation quiche. 
 
SOARES: And if you want to see that, that's coming up right after this. Thanks very much for your company tonight. Do stay right here. "QUEST MEANS 
 
 BUSINESS" up next with Richard Quest right out here from outside Buckingham Palace. Thank you very much for your company.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
END