Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Explosions Hit Kyiv as African Leaders Visit; U.S. Secretary of State Blinken Visits China Sunday; At Least three killed in Texas Tornado; Montana Emerges as Climate Battleground; Kaikkonen: "I am afraid the War will last long"; Migrating Crickets Swarm Town in Nevada. Aired 9-10a ET

Aired June 16, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN HOST, FIRST MOVE: A warm welcome to "First Move", I'm Max Foster in for Julia Chatterley. Just ahead on today's show missile barrage 
 
 Kyiv the target of a massive Russian air strike Friday as Ministers from seven African nations arrived for talks no casualties reported so far.
 
All this amid reports of fierce battles between Ukrainian and Russian forces in the east and the south of the country will discuss the state of 
 
 Ukraine's counter offensive with Finland's Defense Minister and CNN Military Analyst Cedric Leighton. Plus, a deadly storm, at least three 
 
 people killed and dozens injured after a massive tornado rips through Perryton, Texas causing severe damage.
 
We'll bring you the latest on that. And Bill in Beijing billionaire Bill Gates holding talks with Chinese leader Xi Jinping on Friday as Xi's first 
 
 known meeting in years with a top U.S. business leader, all this as, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken heads to China for talks this weekend, a 
 
 live report just ahead.
 
And on the global markets, U.S. stocks on target for a solidly higher open after an across the board rally on Thursday, the S&amp;P 500 coming off its 6th 
 
 straight day of gains and beginning today's session at a 14 month high, stocks holding up well amid the debate over the Federal Reserve's next 
 
 moves.
 
European markets higher too even as the ECB vows there will be more rate hikes the IMF saying today it's in favor of the ECB tightening further. 
 
 Asia closing out the week on a high note as the Japanese Central Bank leaves rates unchanged, lots to get through this out, and let's begin 
 
 though with the latest on Ukraine.
 
Rockets over Kyiv even as leaders from seven African nations arrived in the Ukrainian capital as part of a peace mission. The African delegation, which 
 
 includes South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, will meet with Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelenskyy today, before heading to Russia for talks with Russian 
 
 President Vladimir Putin on Saturday.
 
Sam Kiley joins me now, live from Kyiv, what do you make about the timing of these latest missiles, Sam?
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, I think it could indicate one of two things to be honest, Max. The first is that the 
 
 Russians are prosecuting a military agenda without regard for the diplomatic fallout for -- , the plan of firing missiles into a capital city 
 
 at a time when heads of government ministers and heads of state indeed, are visiting from an important continent.
 
That the Kremlin itself is trying to court or they're sending a message to those African leaders that they are trying to call it that they don't 
 
 matter, because in the past, there's been a bit of an understanding that when major world dignitaries, heads of government, heads of state, come to 
 
 Kyiv.
 
The Russians appear to ease off in terms of their strikes. But that wasn't the case last night with them firing, among other things, six Kinzhal 
 
 missiles which were brought down, one assumes by Patriot missiles. The Germans have just announced they're going to give an extra 40 missiles not 
 
 missile systems with 40 missiles to replenish the stocks that are fast dwindling for the Ukrainians.
 
There are other pledges, of course, coming from other allies, but the Africans in particular, the form of South African President Cyril 
 
 Ramaphosa, have been very close to the Kremlin in many ways, recently with joint military exercises with South Africa.
 
South African Head of the Armed Forces visiting Moscow, the Sergei Lavrov, the South African Foreign Minister, attending a diplomatic meetings in 
 
 South Africa and the United States accusing South Africa, of effectively supplying arms in breach of an arms embargo, potentially, against Russia.
 
So, all of this adding up to what should have been rather cordial relations and therefore an easing off of the airstrikes against the African leaders 
 
 that have come here. But we saw the exact reverse, Max.
 
FOSTER: A lot of African leaders obviously used to being lectured by the West on how to handle their own conflicts. How do you think they're going 
 
 into these talks? And what sort of solutions do you think there'll be suggesting?
 
KILEY: Well, from a benign perspective, if one puts aside for a second, the fact that many of these African leaders are schooled in the history of the 
 
 Cold War, as we all are of a certain age, and therefore understand that they can play Russia, or what was the Soviet Union, now Russia off against 
 
 Western interests to their own advantage.
 
So there may be some advantage that they're prosecuting there. But these are also people who have experienced in many cases of conflicts themselves.
 <br>[09:05:00]
 
The South Africans of course emerge from the conflict that was apartheid others among them have either been in or even enduring the effects of civil 
 
 war in the past or international war. So they have a lot of experience their proposals, though other sorts of proposals that, among other things.
 
They may close, really to the international view to the Ukrainian view, which is there should be a complete Russian withdrawal from the territories 
 
 that they've illegally occupied in this country that is going to be inevitably will be rejected by Russia. But they're hoping perhaps that 
 
 because of their role enabled in that they're able to talk to both sides.
 
Perhaps they can achieve a breakthrough that clearly has been somewhat undermined by a missile attack against the capital that they're visiting. 
 
 When they were on scheduled to meet with the country's President, they may be a little bit anxious, that perhaps they may be targeted along with 
 
 President Zelenskyy later on today, perhaps.
 
FOSTER: The Kremlin says Putin supports any set of ideas to end conflict in Ukraine. What do you think he meant by that? And how will it be received 
 
 where you are?
 
KILEY: Well, he doesn't support the idea that he should unilaterally withdraw from Ukraine, because he doesn't believe that Ukraine has a right 
 
 to exist. So it's not really going to get anywhere in the discussions. There are no discussions. There's no prospect whatsoever, of the Ukrainians 
 
 joining any kind of diplomatic initiative that doesn't begin with a total withdrawal of every single Russian soldier from every inch of Ukrainian 
 
 territory.
 
That is their position right now. That is a position that their NATO partners are full throated in their support of whether that's a position 
 
 that prevails over the next few years, depending on how this war goes. I think we'll be open to question but they are intent on driving the Russians 
 
 out of their territory.
 
They've launched this counter offensive, heavy fighting in the southeast, as you said there, Max, and in the east that is expected to increase. There 
 
 is increasing amount of support coming from NATO partners to allow that counter offensive by the Ukrainians to be prosecuted.
 
There is a hope among the allies that the Russians will be driven out. There's also criticism of those allies that they always supply too little 
 
 too late that they're not really giving the Ukrainians the strategic edge, at least not yet, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK, Sam Kiley thanks for joining us from Kyiv. Right now President Putin is addressing Russia's flagship Economic Forum in St. Petersburg. 
 
 It's an annual meeting of international business figures and officials but this year has been snubbed by the bulk of Western companies.
 
Mr. Putin is discussing a range of issues so far. He's told delegates that Russia's economy may grow up to 2 percent this year, and said Russia will 
 
 increase defense spending to reinforce security. Now, to Sudan where fighting has now entered its third month with no end in sight, more than 
 
 2000 people are believed to have been killed.
 
And the U.N. reports most hospitals near conflict areas are out of service. Doctors without borders describes the situation in the capital Khartoum, as 
 
 profoundly chaotic and violence. Fighting broke out in April between Sudan's army and the paramilitary rapid support forces.
 
And CNN we'll take a closer look at the conflict throughout the day. In an exclusive report, CNN's Nima Elbagir reveals how the notorious Russian 
 
 mercenary group Wagner is playing a key role in the fight here's a preview.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The fighting on the streets of Sudan is relentless. Ceasefire after ceasefire has not helped the RSS 
 
 key ally than its words Russian mercenary group Wagner has been sustaining their fight and providing the impetus to slaughter innocent people by 
 
 supplying arms. We're going to show you how.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: You can see Nima's full report later today, 3 pm in London, 4 pm in Khartoum, right here on CNN. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has to 
 
 China and just a few hours a trip that's been delayed for several months amid strained relations between the two superpowers.
 
Blinken was originally supposed to visit China in February, but that trip was canceled when a suspected Chinese spy balloon was discovered floating 
 
 over the U.S. Chinese state media has little to say about what will be the most senior visit by an American official in five years.
 
New developments in the migrant boat disaster meanwhile, nine Egyptians have been arrested in Greece on suspicion of human trafficking, human 
 
 smuggling as many as 750 people have been on board when the overcrowded ship capsized off Greece on Wednesday, only about 100 were rescued. Melissa 
 
 Bell has the latest from the port of Kalamata.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Nine Egyptian men have been arrested on suspicion of people trafficking, just some of those who survived the 
 
 disaster of Wednesday morning here, not far from the coast of Greece.
 <br>[09:10:00]
 
Those men now under arrest the other survivors most of them those who are not still in hospital have now been transferred towards Athens where their 
 
 asylum applications will be processed. It is of course, the fate of the other now believed to have been many hundreds who may have lost their lives 
 
 that has been forefront of the mind of so many people hoping for answers.
 
Some of those desperate relatives have turned up here in Kalamata hoping that their loved ones had survived as the survivors were taken away to 
 
 Athens, one man who'd been looking for his brother was able to see him, touch him, hold him, through a fence. Most of those who turned up here in 
 
 Kalamata, of course, were disappointed given the scale of the tragedy is now believed that 750 people may have been traveling on the boat.
 
We may never know their true numbers, and we're unlikely ever to know their actual names. We do understand from the survivors that there were women and 
 
 children on board. They were in the holding, of course, given what the Greek Coast Guard say about the 10 to 15 minutes that it took for the boat 
 
 to sink.
 
They had very little hope, of being able to make it out. What the NGOs that work in places like Kalamata, and all around the Mediterranean fear now is 
 
 that given the tightening of European policies with regard to immigration that these kinds of tragedies may actually increase. Melissa Bell, CNN 
 
 Kalamata Greece.
 
FOSTER: Alright, meanwhile, President Xi, hosting Bill Gates, as we were saying earlier, and as far as we know, it's the President's first one on 
 
 one with a Western business leader, or Western business figure really in years. Let's speak to Anna Coren, what Xi makes of all of this?
 
I mean, this is about his philanthropic work more than obviously his tech work, but still a significant moment for American business.
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely, and just the optics. You know, Bill Gates was given a very warm welcome by the Chinese leader Xi Jinping 
 
 today in Beijing. Gates is there to discuss global health issues as the Co- Chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and specifically to renew its collaboration with the Beijing government to develop innovative 
 
 therapies for infectious diseases.
 
But, you know, Xi referred to Gates as his friend and said they hadn't seen each other for more than three years. Obviously, that was due to COVID and 
 
 China basically cutting itself off from the world during the pandemic and Xi spoke very friendly of Bill Gates as someone who has done a lot for 
 
 China's development. Let's take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
XI JINPING, CHINESE PRESIDENT: You're the first American friend I've met in Beijing this year. I often say the basis of China-U.S. relations is among 
 
 the people. We've always placed our hopes on the American people. In today's world, we can engage in all sorts of activities beneficial to our 
 
 two countries, to the people of the two countries and all of humanity. We're all pushing forward in this aspect.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: He doesn't often see you know, Xi Jinping smiling, but he was really happy to see Bill Gates. Gates has been in China since Wednesday. Upon 
 
 arriving, he tweeted let me read this to you. Solving problems like climate change, health inequity and food insecurity requires innovation.
 
From developing malaria drugs to investing in climate adaptation, China has a lot of experience in that we need to unlock that kind of progress for 
 
 more people around the world. Now, Gates stepped down from the Microsoft board back in 2020, to focus on his philanthropy, at the last reported 
 
 meeting between Xi and Gates was in 2015.
 
And Xi wrote a letter to Gates and his foundation, beginning of the pandemic thanking them for their support for China's fight against COVID. 
 
 Let's have a listen now to what Bill Gates had to say during the meeting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BILL GATES, CO-FOUNDER OF MICROSOFT: Very honored to have this chance to meet. And we've always had great conversations and we'll have a lot of 
 
 important topics to discuss today. I was very disappointed. I couldn't come during these last four years. And so it's very exciting to be back.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
COREN: Max, Bill Gates visit comes at a time when tensions are very high between the United States and China as we know. U.S. Secretary of State as 
 
 you mentioned, Antony Blinken will arrive in China this weekend in an attempt to really reset relations but as we've heard from the State 
 
 Department expectations are low.
 
His trip was originally scheduled for February that was obviously postponed due to the suspected Chinese spy balloon that flew over the U.S. airspace. 
 
 Xi may have given a very warm welcome to Bill Gates, but it's uncertain if he will even meet with Antony Blinken. Neither China nor the U.S. has 
 
 confirmed to in fact Blinken will be meeting with, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK, Anna Coren in Hong Kong. Thank you. Pope Francis has been discharged from hospital as he recovers from surgery.
 <br>[09:15:00]
 
He greeted well-wishers and medical staff as he left Rome's Gemelli hospital after nine days where he'd been treated for an abdominal hernia. 
 
 His doctor said the pontiff was stronger than before having surgery and he's already back at work. Barbie Nadeau is in Rome, but he'll have to rest 
 
 presumably so won't be able to keep up the schedule that he may have planned before.
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: That's right. We do know, however, Max, that he's planning to give his Sunday Angeles over from his window over St. 
 
 Peter's Square where lots of people, especially this time of the year, gathered down in the Piazza to be blessed by the Pope and to hear his 
 
 address.
 
We do know that is it unless something happens, of course, confirmed for Sunday. But he did cancel his usual Wednesday audience that's a big long 
 
 affair that he holds every Wednesday throughout the summer with the exception of July. So he's going to be resting, he is going to be meeting 
 
 leaders of Brazil and Cuba next week.
 
Those private audiences are still on the schedule, at least for now. After he left the hospital, he went to the Basilica of St. Mary major here in 
 
 Rome. This is a place he always goes before and after his trips abroad. And it was appropriately it felt obvious today at the time to go give thanks 
 
 there and spend a few minutes in prayer before going back to Vatican City, where we presume he's resting today getting back, you know, used to being 
 
 at home after this long hospital stay.
 
He underwent a three hour surgery last Wednesday, which doctors, say wasn't an emergency surgery, but instead was meant to try to alleviate worsening 
 
 pain. All of this, of course leading up to a really big schedule coming up in August. He's to go to World Youth Day in Portugal the first week of 
 
 August.
 
And then a few weeks later end of August. He's expected to be in Mongolia. So those are big trips for an 86 year old man. But he's proven he's got the 
 
 stamina and energy of someone much younger than him, Max.
 
FOSTER: Yes, did look on good form, Barbie, thank you for joining us from Rome. Straight ahead, cyber-attacks hit a number of U.S. government 
 
 agencies what we're learning about the hack and how Washington plans to respond, after the break and later this hour, with Kyiv under fire from 
 
 Russian missiles.
 
We'll have the latest on the balance of the war, along with a warning from Finland's Minister of Defense.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: In Canada at least 15 people have died and 10 people were injured after a semi-trailer truck collided with a bus carrying senior citizens. 
 
 Police in Manitoba say is one of the worst ever traffic accidents in that province, from Ottawa, CNN's Paula Newton reports.
 <br>[09:20:00]
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Police officials were clear to say this was no local accident. In fact, they say that so many people are still 
 
 reeling from what has become now a national tragedy. What we know, we know that a group of seniors about 25 of them were traveling about a two hour 
 
 drive on a bus to go to a casino in Manitoba.
 
That Casino Sand Hills confirms to CNN that they were supposed to be there throughout the afternoon. That bus approached a four lane highway, and in 
 
 attempting to cross it was hit by a large tractor trailer, a large truck. Apparently, the accident scene for miles there was smoke billowing flames.
 
People rushed to the scene and attempted to help those who were there. But people describe a very grim scene with so many people having to be triaged 
 
 there by the side of the highway. I want you to listen now to the police official describing what it's going to take now to try and figure out 
 
 exactly why this happens. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROB LASSON, SUPERINTENDENT AT MANITOBA RCMP: So this is new for us in our investigators, and it's very emotionally draining for them as well. And as 
 
 I mentioned, this is a very complex large investigation with lots of things we have to unfold and unpack.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON: Now police say a Forensic Reconstruction Team will be on the scene to try and figure out what happened. You have to remember witnesses say 
 
 that the skies were blue, the road was dry there really isn't an explanation so far. They also said a couple of other interesting things.
 
They say that perhaps there was a stop sign missing. There at the intersection, police wouldn't speculate but say it's something that they're 
 
 investigating. And also crucially that the two drivers had survived and while they are injured, a police will speak to them when it's time and in 
 
 fact, Hospital officials say that they still do not have a status report on those injured. Paula Newton, CNN, Ottawa.
 
FOSTER: The U.S. says it's assessing the damage from cyber-attacks that impacted several government agencies on Thursday. The breach is being 
 
 blamed on Russian hackers known for extorting ransoms from their victims. It came just a few days after hackers, targeted U.K. organizations, 
 
 including British Airways and the BBC.
 
Natasha Bertrand is in Washington, is the suspicion that is the same group responsible for all of these hacks?
 
NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: That appears to be the case, Max, but U.S. officials still say that there could be some other 
 
 criminal hackers who are taking advantage of this software vulnerability to then attack certain entities themselves, right.
 
So basically, once the vulnerability and the flaw in the software have been discovered, it really could be exploited by other hackers as well. Now this 
 
 Russian criminal hacking group is known for extorting ransoms from its victims. And right now, what we're told is that they have not asked for any 
 
 ransoms from U.S. federal agencies.
 
However, they have done so for other entities, including universities, and other state and local entities. And so what appears to have happened here 
 
 is that this file transfer software widely used file transfer software had this flaw in it that these Russian hackers exploited.
 
Now we're hearing from the company that owns that file transfer software that that there actually could be a second vulnerability. So they are 
 
 working to patch that right now. But yesterday, we were told that several federal agencies have been impacted by this hack, including the Department 
 
 of Energy.
 
Now two entities within the Department of Energy apparently had some of their files stolen, and they're still doing a damage assessment to figure 
 
 out just what was taken. But broadly, U.S. officials told reporters yesterday that there is not expected to be a huge impact on U.S. government 
 
 agencies.
 
At the federal level, it is not clear what they have been able to access or steal. But it could have a bigger impact on individuals at the local level. 
 
 So according to state officials from Louisiana, and Oregon, millions of people might have had their data exposed in this hack.
 
And so they're trying to figure out exactly the extent of what might have been exposed, including potentially social security numbers and driver's 
 
 licenses. So a really wide ranging hacks here that has hit really entities across the world down to the individual people who might have had their 
 
 data exposed.
 
And the U.S. government now is really racing against the clock to figure out the extent of the hack the scale and the scope of it. So that they can 
 
 figure out how to prevent against something like this in the future, Max.
 
FOSTER: Natasha, thank you. I have more "First Move", after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:25:00]
 
FOSTER: Welcome back to extreme weather in the state of Texas. Three people have died and around 100 were injured after a tornado ripped through a 
 
 small town. So close around 200 homes in Perryton have been destroyed. The Mayor says that much of the town with a population of just 8000 is in 
 
 ruins.
 
Tornadoes were reported across large swathes of the U.S. overnight, nearly 400,000 people in Texas, Florida, Oklahoma and Alabama are still without 
 
 power. Lucy Kafanov is live in Perryton, Texas. So, I mean some of these videos extraordinary they get so close to the tornado.
 
You see the damage is doing and of course there were several homes there that were mobile homes. So they got utterly destroyed.
 
LUCY KAFANOV, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Those kinds of homes almost have no chance against a tornado of this force and veracity. The cleanup efforts are 
 
 beginning behind me you can see the scale of the destruction. Folks here stunned not just at how much got turned to rubble, but also how quickly all 
 
 of this unfolded.
 
People here are used to tornadoes there are shelters just for that cause but there was no time to get to safety when this hit yesterday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KAFANOV (voice over): A deadly tornado touching down in the Texas Panhandle, leaving a brutal path of destruction in Perryton.
 
BRIAN EMFINGER, STORM CHASER: Tornado is just 100 yards or so right there.
 
KAFANOV (voice over): Large hail pelted down as the tornado moved through the area and soon after a possible second smaller tornado was seen as well. 
 
 One storm chaser says there was very little warning ahead of this tornado, as the funnel cloud formed very quickly.
 
EMFINGER (voice over): Whenever I was flying around. It looked like people just had to self-rescue themselves. People were climbing out of rubble. You 
 
 know there was a fire nearby.
 
KAFANOV (voice over): As many as 200 homes were destroyed according to the town's fire chief. And some of those homes were completely leveled as seen 
 
 in this aerial video shot in the Tornadoes aftermath.
 <br>[09:30:00]
 
SABRINA DEVERS: This whole area is just why now -- .
 
KAFANOV (voice over): One nearby resident drove through Parrington in the tornadoes wake and documented the damages.
 
DEVERS: At times we'll feel times there, but there is a trailer, an Oldfield trailer.
 
KAFANOV (voice over): Texas Governor Greg Abbott deploying the state's emergency response resources. The surrounding cities and counties also 
 
 rushed to the area to provide aid. In neighboring Hansford County, the county judge says they are preparing to assist for a possible mass casualty 
 
 and to a recovery event.
 
The Red Cross is mobilizing teams to offer support on the ground. The local high school is opening its doors to offer shelter to those in need.
 
COLE UNDERWOOD, ATHLETIC DIRECTOR AND FOOTBALL COACH, PERRYTON HIGH SCHOOL: I think that there's a sense of fear just of the unknown. I don't think 
 
 anybody really has any idea what's going to happen next. The shock is still sitting in, the sadness, the anger, every emotion that people can be going 
 
 through, they're going through.
 
KAFANOV (voice over): The interim county hospital CEO says it's operating off generators, which can only last for a little over 72 hours. She says 
 
 the hospital has treated somewhere between 75 and 100 people with injuries.
 
KELLY JUDICE, INTERIM CEO, OCHITREE GENERAL HOSPITAL: Anything from minor lacerations to major traumas, head injuries, collapsed lungs, broken legs, 
 
 major lacerations and a little bit of everything.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KAFANOV: And Max, when we arrived here in the dead of night, it was eerily quiet there was a curfew. Now, power diggers behind me the sound of 
 
 electric saws the cleanup efforts are slowly beginning but it is going to take time. Take a look at that mangled piece of metal behind me that was 
 
 supposed to be a cell phone tower snapped in half as if it was a -- people doing cleanup efforts over there.
 
A lot of this town is still without power, it is going to take time for the electricity to get turned back on. And of course for all of those folks who 
 
 lost their homes who lost everything that they need to survive, that getting back to normal is going to take time, Max.
 
FOSTER: Seeing this there must be something else, Lucy Kafanov in Perryton, Texas, thank you. The northern state of Montana is emerging as a key 
 
 climate battleground in the U.S. presidential race. Now there's a group of so called climate kids who are taking on their states addiction to fossil 
 
 fuels. CNN's Bill Weir reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): In Big Sky Country, it's a story fit for a big screen. On one side 16 young people from ranches, 
 
 reservations and boom towns across Montana ranging in age from five to 22. On the other side, the Republican led state of Montana, which lost a three 
 
 year fight to keep this case out of court, but is still determined to let fossil fuels keep flowing.
 
Despite the warnings from science, that burning them will only melt more glaciers, black and more skies and ravage more rivers.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Based on the evidence seen as a point to harm for the issue -- carved out and accelerating far in the future.
 
WEIR (voice over): And the whole plot pivots around the Montana constitution that promises the state shall maintain and improve a clean and 
 
 healthful environment for present and future generations.
 
NATE BELLINGER, SENIOR STAFF ATTORNEY, OUR CHILDREN'S TRUST: They filed seven different motions to try and have the case dismissed. None of those 
 
 motions have been successful.
 
WEIR (voice over): While the first week included scientists testifying to the data.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Dr. Stanford has fishing for bull trout and native cutthroat trout already been impacted by climate change.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Oh, very definitely.
 
WEIR (voice over): The emotion has come from plaintiffs laying out their stories of loss.
 
SARIEL SANDOVAL, PLAINTIFF, OUR CHILDREN'S TRUST: You know it's really scary seeing what you care for. Disappear right in front of your eyes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: How does it make you feel knowing that the state is not considering climate impacts in its permitting decisions?
 
TALEAH HERNANDEZ, PLAINTIFF, OUR CHILDREN'S TRUST: Makes me feel like the state is prioritizing profits over people because they know that there is 
 
 visible harm coming to the land and to the people and they're still choosing to make money instead of care for Montanans.
 
WEIR (voice over): While the State's Attorneys briefly question a plaintiff's ability to connect her mental health to the climate. They've 
 
 mainly save cross examination for the experts.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If the judge ordered that we stopped using fossil fuels in Montana, we got to get us to the point where these plaintiffs are no 
 
 longer being harmed in your opinion.
 
DR. STEVEN W. RUNNING, PROFESSOR EMERITUS, UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA: We can tell in advance because what is been shown in history over and over and 
 
 over again, is when significant social movement is needed, it often is started by like one or two or three people.
 
RIKKI HEID, LEAD PLAINTIFF, OUR CHILDREN'S TRUST: I know that climate change is not -- responsibility for our counterpart and the judges -- .
 <br>[09:35:00]
 
WEIR (voice over): Judge Kathy Seeley doesn't have the power to shut down any extraction or usage of fossil fuels. But a judgment for the young 
 
 plaintiffs could set a powerful precedent for Our Children's Trust.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think we're really at a tipping point right now.
 
WEIR (voice over): The Oregon non-profit is also helping kids in Hawaii; sue their state over tailpipe emissions. And they've revived Juliana v. 
 
 United States, the Federal case that could end up before the Supreme Court.
 
CLAIRE VLASES, PLAINTIFF, OUR CHILDREN'S TRUST: I just recently graduated high school, but I think it's something everyone knows is that we have 
 
 three branches of government for a reason. The judicial branch is there to keep a check on the other two branches. And that's what we're doing here.
 
WEIR (voice over): Claire Vlases grew up in beautiful booming, Bozeman and like the other kids too young to vote. She sees the courts as the only 
 
 place for someone like her to have a voice.
 
VLASES: It's hard knowing the power to make changes in the hands of other people, especially my government. And I hope that as a young person, we 
 
 might actually have a chance to make a difference and for my life and for my kids life. You know, not all hope, maybe last.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: CNN's Bill Weir reporting, coming up an historic week for both NATO and Finland. NATO official is welcoming the Finnish Defense Minister into 
 
 the fold. We'll speak to him about his hopes for NATO membership and his warning over Ukraine as well coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Welcome back to "First Move". U.S. Stocks are up and running for the final session of the trading week mostly higher open with DOW and the 
 
 S&amp;P. Currently in the lead they're this entire after more than 1 percent jump for the major averages on Thursday, so pretty buoyant.
 
The S&amp;P and the NASDAQ is now trading their highest levels in 14 months. Stocks holding up well despite the Feds warning that it may raise rates two 
 
 more times this year. Investors believe in the economy can withstand a few more hikes I'm questioning whether the Fed will be able to follow through 
 
 on its rate hike threat.
 
So that's all playing into this. Turing once again to the war in Ukraine though, Kyiv saying today that its military forces have achieved some 
 
 success in battles with Russian forces in the south and the east of the country. But Russia is said to be putting up strong resistance.
 <br>[09:40:00]
 
And Moscow says it beat back Ukrainian offensive operations in the Zaporizhzhia region. All this is NATO Defense Ministers met in Brussels to 
 
 discuss a long term security package for Ukraine. Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg saying NATO support for Kyiv is making a difference on the 
 
 battlefield.
 
Let's get an update on the state then of the Ukrainian offensive with our Military Analyst Cedric Leighton. It's difficult to tell what progress 
 
 they're making. It's certainly slow, isn't it, but steady.
 
CEDRIC LEIGHTON, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: That's right, Max is it's very slow, but it is steady. And there are certain areas like area around Bakhmut and 
 
 in the south east around Zaporizhzhia, where the Ukrainians have actually made a little bit of progress. But this isn't the kind of progress Max that 
 
 you would see in a D-Day like situation or anything like that.
 
What you're seeing here is an incremental use of their forces. They're basically doing what's known as a reconnaissance in force in some of these 
 
 areas. And what they're trying to do is probe the Russian -- probe the Russian defenses to see what points of weakness there are.
 
FOSTER: From what movements you've seen so far, if you worked out any possible wider strategy they may be embarking on?
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, I think one of the key areas that they're looking at is the southeastern area. In other words, the land bridge between occupied Crimea 
 
 and the occupied portions of the Donbas, this land bridge connects those two areas. And what the Ukrainians are trying to do, it appears to me is 
 
 they're trying to cut that area.
 
So what that would mean is they would be able to perhaps go to a town like Mariupol, which is on the Sea of Azov, and take that. If they were able to 
 
 do that, then that would inflict a bit of a defeat on the Russians. And it would make it much more difficult for them to maintain their forces in this 
 
 area.
 
FOSTER: It's separating them, wouldn't it? So that would be, you know, one side will be trapped effectively.
 
LEIGHTON: That's right. And if that were to happen, that could put the Russians in a much weaker position, both militarily and geopolitically and 
 
 in that sense, the Ukrainians would have achieved a major goal on their way to liberating their country from Russian forces that are occupying parts of 
 
 it.
 
FOSTER: We've heard from Western leaders how they're in this for the long haul. I mean, do you have any idea how long that you know they're looking 
 
 at in terms of supporting Ukraine?
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, this is one of those areas that it's probably difficult to assess. But every indication right now, Max, is that they are really 
 
 looking at a very long, protracted conflict, this conflict could have many different phases. It could be one in which you see offensive operations or 
 
 counter offensive, so like the one that we're seeing right now.
 
Or it could be one in which things are relatively static, like it was for the last few months. So this could be something that goes on for the next, 
 
 unfortunately, decade or so. If that happens, that would really test the NATO resolve to support Ukraine, it would, you know, create some tensions.
 
And there would obviously the risk that the Western powers would tire of supporting Ukraine., That can't happen if they're willing to defend Ukraine 
 
 and if they're willing to go in to this area, so they must you make sure that they have the right Munitions for the Ukrainians that they provide the 
 
 right support, and that they make the enforces more interoperable with Western forces.
 
FOSTER: In terms of the fighter jets, that would be you know, that would be certainly speed up the offensive, right, but we're not looking at, I mean, 
 
 when might they arrive?
 
LEIGHTON: Yes, that's a very interesting question. Because the trained pipeline for let's say, an F-16, which is the most commonly discussed 
 
 fighter jet for the Ukrainians to possibly receive, they're talking a minimum of four to five months on a very sped up timeline.
 
Normally, an American fighter pilot takes about a year of regular pilot training, which the Ukrainians already have, but then another 10 months or 
 
 so, to learn the intricacies of the F-16. So that, you know, would be a very different timeline than what we're operating under right now.
 
But it would be necessary to implement that if NATO was really serious about making sure that Ukraine doesn't suffer the fate that it did back in 
 
 February of last year.
 
FOSTER: OK, thank you so much for joining us with that and your insight there, Leighton. Now Finnish Defense Minister Antti Kaikkonen is assuring 
 
 allies that his country's incoming coalition government will support Ukraine, continues to support Ukraine, but he says he's worried about the 
 
 duration of the war.
 
He sees no signs that the conflict will end soon. Kaikkonen is attending the NATO Defense Ministers meeting in Brussels and he joins us from there 
 
 now.
 <br>[09:45:00]
 
Finland -- becoming the first member of NATO in April, the key member now. We're just hearing there from our analysts how the length of this war, 
 
 possibly up to 10 years is what might test NATO the most. Is that something you agree with?
 
ANTTI KAIKKONEN, FINNISH DEFENSE MINISTER: Yes. I'm afraid that this war will take a long time. I'm afraid it's not about months, it's about longer 
 
 time. Is it a year or three years or 10 years? That's very difficult to say. But hopefully someday this, this horrible war is over. But I think we 
 
 should prepare for that, that it will take a long time unfortunately.
 
FOSTER: Is Finland committed to up to 10 years, for example?
 
KAIKKONEN: We are committed to support Ukraine as long as needed. If it's 10 years, we are committed to that.
 
FOSTER: One of the big concerns about Finland, obviously joining NATO was that Russia may see it as an aggressive act for NATO equipment forces to 
 
 come into Finland. What will be the relationship in terms of how you operate with NATO, within your own borders? And what goes up against the 
 
 Russian border?
 
KAIKKONEN: Yes, we have a long border line to Russia, more than 1300 kilometers. So it's actually more than the other NATO countries together. 
 
 But well, we will leave it there for all our history. So we can we can live with that.
 
But, of course, the relationship with Russia is not so good at the moment, and it seems that there will be a long, cold era between the relations 
 
 between Finland and the European Union and NATO and Russia, the situation, unfortunately.
 
FOSTER: Are you going to allow NATO troops and equipment into Finland for more permanent positions?
 
KAIKKONEN: Well, that's something that we will discuss in the near future, we will have a new government soon. And I'm sure that that's on the agenda 
 
 of the new government. But we've been we've done more exercising with NATO countries. And we find that that's very useful for us.
 
And I believe it's good for NATO countries, as well. We have actually quite, quite capable army ourselves already. For example, one of the 
 
 strongest artilleries in Europe, and the wartime capacity of our defense forces are 280,000 soldiers. So I bring, I believe that we can bring also 
 
 some added value to NATO. So Finland joining NATO, it's a win-win situation. I think it's good for Finland, but I believe it's good for NATO 
 
 as well.
 
FOSTER: Are you able to give us a progress update on Sweden's membership of NATO? Because obviously, you've been working with Turkey to find some sort 
 
 of agreement, because Turkey is, is what's blocking this swift movement into NATO.
 
KAIKKONEN: Well, I think it would be very good to have in Sweden to join NATO as soon as possible. And well, of course, it was also debated in this 
 
 meeting here in Brussels. Many countries said that it's important to have Sweden to become a full member of NATO sooner. We have the very last summit 
 
 in a month.
 
And I think that's that will be a good goal for experience for membership. I believe it's possible, but well, it's in Turkish and Hungary at the 
 
 moment, so we'll see.
 
FOSTER: Yes, OK. Thank you so much for joining us, Antti Kaikkonen from Finland, but actually at the NATO summit, thank you so much for joining us. 
 
 We're going to be back in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:50:00]
 
FOSTER: To climbers have just done something no one else has done? They've become the first deaf Americans to reach the summit. Here's Anna Coren with 
 
 that amazing story.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): This is the moment Scott Lehmann and Shayna Unger reached the top of the tallest peak on the planet. 
 
 In doing so they became the first deaf Americans to summit Mount Everest. Shayna also made history as the first deaf woman in the world to 
 
 successfully complete the climb.
 
SHAYNA UNGER, FIRST DEAF AMERICAN TO CLIMB EVEREST: When we got to the top, we felt like we defeated all the odds, we were really proud of ourselves.
 
SCOTT LEHMANN, FIRST DEAF AMERICAN TO CLIMB EVEREST: It proves that with the right attitude and the right adjustments, the space is available for 
 
 deaf and hard of hearing people.
 
COREN (voice over): Unfortunately, their triumph was later tinged with sadness, as they learned that Muhammad Hawari Hashim, a Deaf climber from 
 
 Malaysia, who they had befriended on the mountain, had gone missing after his successful ascent on May 18. A search and rescue operation has failed 
 
 to find him.
 
Well, summiting Everest is an impressive achievement in itself. Scott and Shayna have even loftier ambitions. The gobbler is aiming to be the first 
 
 deaf individuals to climb the highest mountain on each continent known as the Seven Summits. Their Everest expedition puts them over halfway to 
 
 reaching that goal.
 
UNGER: We are still processing Everest, but for sure next will be one of the three Seven summits, which one, we're not sure.
 
COREN (voice over): The educators from the Washington DC area were both born profoundly deaf due to a lack of accessibility for the deaf community 
 
 and outdoor education. Scott and Shayna learned many of their mountaineering skills from YouTube videos.
 
In turn, they've been sharing their experiences online, documenting everything from life at Everest base camp, to the specific challenges 
 
 they've faced on their expeditions. Scott and Shayna use social media to explain how they manage logistics on mountain routes, and navigate common 
 
 misconceptions about their abilities as deaf climates.
 
The Jewel is committed to making mountain climbing more accessible to people from marginalized communities, especially deaf and hard of hearing 
 
 youth.
 
UNGER: I want all kids to dream bigger.
 
COREN (voice over): A mission that will be top of mind when they scale their next summit. Anna Coren, CNN, Hong Kong.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Get on them. Prince Harry and Megan maybe other podcasting business but just for now, probably their company arch will have ended its 
 
 partnership with Spotify. A joint statement said the decision was mutual. In December 2020, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex said they'd agreed to 
 
 produce several programs.
 
However, a podcast and a holiday special were the only ones that actually came to fruition. The separation comes two weeks after Spotify announced 
 
 200 job cuts. And finally, problem of biblical proportions, a town in Nevada is dealing with a plague of crickets.
 
Swarms of migrating Mormon crickets, as they're called have taken over every space in the, in Elko. The good news is they don't bite people. The 
 
 bad news is they do consume a lot of crops. At first, local people were just curious now they want the bugs to go away, while it seems apocalyptic.
 
Scientists say this type of swarm isn't unusual. It's just small noticeable when it happens in populated areas like that. Time for me to hop in that is 
 
 it for the show. "Connect the World" is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
END