Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: United States Coast Guard Says Operation Is Still 100 Percent A Search And Rescue Mission For Missing Submersible; Massive Hunt For Sub Intensifies: Focus On Banging Noises As Search Area Doubles In Size, Oxygen Dwindles; Ukraine's Navy Takes On Russian Drones, Missiles; India's Modi In Washington For State Visit. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired June 22, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:33]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church.
 
Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. Search and rescue crews are racing against time in the North Atlantic, as the missing submersible's life support systems reach their expected limit.
 
President Biden rolling out the red carpet for India's prime minister. The two leaders meeting amid growing tensions with China and concerns over Modi's commitment to democracy and human rights. A live report just ahead.
 
And in the West Bank, an Israeli drone strike kills three militants. This, after days of escalating violence between Israelis and Palestinians.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Thanks for joining us. And search crews are not giving up hope of finding the OceanGate Titan submersible missing now for nearly four days in the Atlantic Ocean.
 
The massive search is using sonar buoys, which detected underwater banging noises on Tuesday and Wednesday.
 
Although, the U.S. Coast Guard says it's not entirely clear what those noises are. A state-of-the-art French robot, capable of operating at more than 6,000 meters underwater is on its way to the search side. It's not able to lift the sub on its own, but it could hook it to a ship that can then get it to the surface.
 
OceanGate expeditions lost contact with the Titan, early Sunday, less than two hours into its dive. Each trip begins with 96 hours' worth of oxygen. Meaning, Thursday morning could be a key deadline for finding the sub.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEAN LEET, CO-FOUNDER AND CHAIRMAN, HORIZON MARITIME SERVICES: We are very aware of the time sensitivity around this mission. There still life support available on a submersible. And we will continue to hold all hope until the very end.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: More now from CNN's Miguel Marquez, reporting from St. John's in Canada.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAPTAIN JAMIE FREDERICK, CHIEF, ENFORCEMENT BRANCH, UNITED STATES COAST GUARD: This is a search and rescue mission, 100 percent.
 
MIGUEL MARQUEZ, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Rescuers clinging to every sliver of hope. Indistinct sounds from the ocean depths could be a sign, the sign of life.
 
FREDERICK: The noises were heard by a Canadian P3. And that was this morning and some yesterday.
 
MARQUEZ: The noise described as banging sounds at regular intervals. And the Department of Homeland Security briefing are now described as less specific than that. But still, the focus of the search.
 
FREDERICK: We need to have hope, right? But I don't -- I can't tell you what the noises are. But what I can tell you is, and I think this is the most important point. We're searching where the noises are. And that's all we can do, at this point.
 
MARQUEZ: The sounds picked up by buoys like this one dropped from planes, then, listening for any signs of life from the Titan submersible.
 
CARL HARTSFIELD, WOODS HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION: This team has multiple sensors there in the area. They're sending data back expeditiously to the best in the world.
 
MARQUEZ: It takes about a day for ships from St. John's, the closest land to the Titanic wreck site to arrive at the search area.
 
That search area enormous. Two times the size of Connecticut.
 
A grid pattern provided by the U.S. Coast Guard indicates the meticulous nature of the search and how it's expanded.
 
The commercial ship, Horizon Arctic left this morning with equipment and gear from three U.S. military C-17 cargo planes and another Canadian Coast Guard ship, the Terry Fox left St. John's today and is on the way. They will join eight other ships, either already at the search area or in route.
 
The submersible made of carbon fiber and titanium, no hatch. It's five-person crew bolted in to the 21-foot craft, stirred controversy during its development and testing.
 
In 2018, the Marine Technology Society, a volunteer group that offers technical advice to the industry, expressed concerns to OceanGate about, "The current experimental approach adopted by OceanGate could result in negative outcomes. From minor to catastrophic that would have serious consequences for everyone in the industry."
 
The industry group wanted OceanGate to submit a comprehensive testing and certification standards. It's not clear what steps OceanGate undertook to test and adhere to those standards.
 <br>[02:05:01]
 
Its founder, Stockton Rush, who is on the missing sub, expressed his take on research and testing this way when asked by one of his previous passengers.
 
STOCKTON RUSH, FOUNDER, OCEANGATE: And I broken some rules to make this. I think I'd broken them with logic and good engineering behind me. The carbon fiber and titanium, there is a rule you don't do that. Well, I did.
 
MARQUEZ: Later in 2018, two employees, separately expressed concerns about the thickness of the carbon fiber haul. One employee was fired. He sued for wrongful termination, the other, resigned.
 
The lawsuit was settled out of court and OceanGate says it conducted further testing on the sub to ensure functionality and safety.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARQUEZ (on camera): I spoke to one man here in St. John's today that did that trip with OceanGate down to the Titanic wreckage. He took his son on that trip last year. He says that they both have great confidence in the company. They went through tons of training on both rescues and emergencies and even learning lots about the capsule itself.
 
He says that they trust the technology and the design of that submersible. Back to you.
 
CHURCH: Rick Armstrong is a retired U.S. Navy diver with three decades of experience. And he joins me now from San Diego, in California.
 
Thank you so much for being with us.
 
RICK ARMSTRONG, RETIRED UNITED STATES NAVY DIVER: Good evening, how are you?
 
CHURCH: Good. So, oxygen supplies are getting dangerously low inside that missing submersible, where rising carbon dioxide levels would be adding to that risk.
 
But these banging sounds are offering some hope to rescue. Is that the five men inside that sub could be found? How likely is that do you think at this juncture?
 
ARMSTRONG: At this point, any hope they have of finding these folks is based around those bagging sounds. The fact that they've been admitted, and they've been every 30 minutes is probably the best lead they have to where the submarine -- the submersible can be.
 
And as you can see here, they are mustering all their assets into one area. Here again, this is a huge area of search, and a very deep area as well.
 
CHURCH: Yes. Yes, that's a very important point because the search area has now doubled in size, hasn't it? Then, still the sub has not been located.
 
Even if it is found soon, how long would it take to get a ship in position to pull that sub to the surface?
 
ARMSTRONG: Ships nowadays have dynamic positioning, where they don't have to anchor, which does take quite a while to do. They could probably be over the wreck once, you know, it's -- I believe, a 120- hour transit from Newfoundland to the Titanic site.
 
So, once in position, they could start launching their ROVs to start an immediate search, which is pinpointing where they, you know, they'll probably start from the bow and work their way to the stern.
 
And then, you know, port side, starboard side. What they're looking for is the submersible hung up and some type of netting or blinds or such. If that's the case, the ROV might be able to put appendages on the articulating arms and cut it away from the wreck, and allow it to ballast itself to the surface.
 
CHURCH: Right. And, a crew say, if the five men inside that sub are making these banging sounds, and we don't know that for sure. But if they are, that means they're still alive. But what conditions would they be facing right now? Can you explain that to us?
 
ARMSTRONG: Their conditions are, you know, here again, as their air supply is depleting, and the carbon dioxide is building inside the capsule itself, hopefully, the co2 scrubbers are still working and removing some of that co2.
 
But unless they get them to the surface, here in the next, you know, by tomorrow, the things are looking grim.
 
CHURCH: Yes.
 
ARMSTRONG: There is no -- there is no air supply going to the capsule. They have what they have inside, and what they brought with them.
 
CHURCH: Yes, exactly. And of course, it does feel premature to discuss this. But given what we know about questions raised in the past by members of the industry and to previous employees of OceanGate about the lack of certification of this sub, and some other problems, how will this incident likely change the way these extreme expeditions run in the future?
 
ARMSTRONG: I think if they are going to continue to bring tours -- ocean tours into the situations like this, they'll require much more stringent certifications.
 
Sometimes, the good that comes out of a situation like this is more regulation that's safety based.
 <br>[02:10:03]
 
Here, when I was in the Navy, we had many certifications; quality controls, quality assurances. You just couldn't work on a life support system or a critical component of a diving system without controlled work processes. It's very stringent.
 
And if this gentleman did not follow those protocol, I believe the industry needs to regulate, so, it's safer for this type of industry.
 
CHURCH: All right. Well, let's just hope that they are found, and found quickly, and rescued, brought to the surface. Of course, all waiting and watching.
 
Rick Armstrong, thank you so much for talking with us. Appreciate it.
 
ARMSTRONG: Thank you. Hope they -- hope they are found.
 
CHURCH: Yes.
 
Ukraine says it slow grinding counter offensive is showing noticeable success in the South. It posted this video, reportedly showing Ukrainian strikes in the Tavria sector on Wednesday.
 
Ukraine says it destroyed the equivalent of three Russian companies over the last day, and its troops continue to advance.
 
President Zelenskyy tells the BBC that Ukraine would like to speed up its offensive, but that real life fighting is not a Hollywood movie.
 
Meanwhile, Ukraine also says it repelled multiple Russian attacks in the Donetsk region on Wednesday.
 
Russian President Vladimir Putin claims without evidence that Ukraine has slowed down its offensive because it took serious losses.
 
Ukraine says Russia is employing new tactics in its aerial strikes across the country. It says Russian operators fly their drones and missiles along rivers to avoid Ukraine's air defenses.
 
But as Fred Pleitgen reports, Ukrainian Navy ships are trying to counter that move.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Night after night, a common feed. Russian aerial attacks on Ukraine cities, air defense viciously fighting back from land, the air, and from the water.
 
We got exclusive access to Ukrainian Navy patrol boats that are part of that fight.
 
PLEITGEN: The Ukrainians say the Russians often fly drones and even cruise missiles along rivers to avoid air defenses. That's why boats like this one play an important role keeping both cities, but also critical infrastructure safe.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): The commander, who only gave his name as, Anton, says air defense is a key component of their mission.
 
Are you effective?
 
ANTON, UKRAINIAN NAVY COMMANDER: So, I cannot answer that question how affected we are. But, so, are we effective? I will say yes.
 
PLEITGEN: As Ukraine presses on with its counter offensive, key of acknowledges the Russians are putting up stiff resistance every yard of territory hard fought.
 
We would certainly like to make bigger steps, the Ukrainian president says. They are smaller than we want. But nevertheless, those who fight shall win.
 
Moscow claiming, they are repelling Ukraine's attempted advances. Russian President Vladimir Putin saying his troops are wearing the Ukrainians down.
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): Currently, we're seeing a certain low. It has to do with the fact that the enemy is suffering serious losses.
 
PLEITGEN: The Ukrainians fear the Russians might try to infiltrate and destabilize cities like Kyiv or smuggle weapons here.
 
So, the Navy crew searches all boats and barges on the river. In this search, it was an all-clear.
 
ANTON: Then, we'll make a search of the suspected vessel. In the meantime, we will be surrounding them to make sure that nobody is going to leave the vessel, that we will not be under attack.
 
PLEITGEN: Their work, they say, even more pressing after the recent destruction of the Nova Kakhovka dam, which the Russians and Ukrainians blame on each other.
 
ANTON: The river is also a strategic object. Especially now, as you can see what happened in Kakhovka. So, now, we can understand how it is important to make it safe and secure place.
 
PLEITGEN: Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Kyiv. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Ukraine is securing promises, the billions of dollars in recovery aid, not just from allied governments, but from private investors too. More than 400 global companies are pledging support at the Ukraine recovery conference in London.
 
Ukraine says it needs major investments into five industries: infrastructure, energy, manufacturing, agriculture, and information technology, to secure not just its immediate recovery from after the war, but its long-term future.
 
And Ukraine is getting hefty new aid packages with new promises coming in from the U.K., the U.S. and from the World Bank.
 
The World Bank says it will cost some $411 billion to rehabilitate Ukraine, and that price will most likely rise.
 <br>[02:15:02]
 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says the responsibility will ultimately lie with Moscow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE: Even as we come together here in London, committed to supporting Ukraine's build up, Russia continues to try to burn it down.
 
So, let's be clear. Russia is causing Ukraine's destruction and Russia will eventually bear the cost of Ukraine's reconstruction.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: In about two hours from now, Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich will appear in court in Moscow to find his detention in Russia.
 
He wants to appeal a recent ruling to keep him behind bars until his trial on August 30th. Gershkovich, was arrested on espionage charges in March, and faces up to 20 years in prison if convicted.
 
The newspaper vehemently denies the accusations, while a U.S. State Department official did not mince words talking about the proceedings.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VEDANT PATEL, DEPUTY SPOKESPERSON, UNITED STATES STATE DEPARTMENT: What we continue to feel that the -- this whole legal process as it relates to Evan is a sham. We've been very clear that Evan is wrongfully detained -- being wrongfully detained and targeted for simply doing his job as a journalist.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Gershkovich is the first U.S. journalist arrested in Russia for alleged spying since the Cold War.
 
At least 31 people have been killed in a gas explosion at a barbecue restaurant in northwest China. According to state media, the blast, late Wednesday was caused by a leak in a liquid gas tank. Nine people associated with the restaurant have reportedly been detained over this, with their assets frozen. At least seven people were injured, one critically.
 
Still to come, Washington is strengthening its ties with New Delhi, with a state visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
Why the U.S. hopes this will help keep China's influence in the region in check?
 
Plus, the massive effort now underway to find a deepwater submersible lost in the Atlantic, and get it to the surface as quickly as possible.
 
Those stories and much more just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. The White House is making no effort to walk back an unscripted comment from President Joe Biden, comparing Chinese leader Xi Jinping to dictators.
 
Mr. Biden made the remark during a campaign fundraiser in California on Tuesday. The White House said the candid assessment should come as no surprise, and the state department says the U.S. will continue to be blunt and forthright.
 
Beijing had a different take.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:20:02]
 
MAO NING, SPOKESPERSON, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY (through translator): The remark seriously contradict basic facts, seriously violate diplomatic etiquette, and seriously infringe on China's political dignity, which is an open political provocation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: The comment comes just a few days after U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken reported progress during a meeting with President Xi in Beijing.
 
Well, meantime, against the backdrop of growing tensions between Washington and Beijing, Mr. Biden is looking to strengthen ties with New Delhi.
 
He is hosting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Washington for his first state visit. Mr. Modi joined the Biden's for a private dinner at the White House, Wednesday night. And there will be a number of events in the coming hours, including Mr. Modi's address to Congress, a rare joint news conference by both leaders and a state dinner.
 
CNN's Ivan Watson is following all the developments for us. He joins us now live from Hong Kong.
 
Good to see you, Ivan.
 
So, Prime Minister Modi doesn't usually take questions from the press, but he will, this time. Talk to us about that, and of course, what's expected to come out of this rare state visit, which is sending a clear message to China.
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It sure is. You know, and what a difference a number of years makes, Rosemary, because Narendra Modi was denied a visa to the U.S. by the state department back in 2005.
 
At that time, he was chief minister of the Indian state of Gujarat. That state had seen some horrific violence. More than 1,000 people killed, mostly Muslims. And he was associated with that violence.
 
He's been cleared by India's Supreme Court since. And now, the red carpet is quite literally being rolled out for him. This is only the third state visit of a foreign leader that Biden is hosting since he took his seat in the White House in 2020.
 
We are expecting -- the state department says announcements about co- development and co-production of military systems, including some very advanced systems.
 
As for the questions at a press conference, Modi as prime minister does not really give press conferences. So, there have been very delicate discussions between his office and the White House about following through with this American tradition and a compromise; instead of allowing each leader to take two questions, apiece from journalist, it will be one apiece.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
WATSON (voice over): The leaders of India and the U.S., in a warm embrace. President Joe Biden has called this a defining relationship of the 21st century.
 
We are natural partners, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at this meeting last year. Adding, the new momentum in relations between two democracies that are the world's largest and oldest would have been hard to imagine even a decade ago.
 
This year, the U.S. became India's largest trading partner, the world's most populous country buying hundreds of American made planes. And for the first time, Apple opening a store in Mumbai.
 
But it's not just business that's bringing these two countries together. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: China is the one big glue, which is holding India and the United States together.
 
WATSON: High in the Himalayas, India is locked in a tense faceoff with China.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: India is the only country which is militarily deployed against China in an active mode. We are across the 2,000-mile border -- disputed border. 50,000-60,000 Indian soldiers and an equal number of Chinese soldiers are deployed in an eyeball-to-eyeball stage.
 
WATSON: In 2020, a deadly skirmish like this left at least 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese soldiers dead.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: India does not want China to be the hegemonic power in Asia. And the United States, for its own reason, does not want China to be the hegemonic power there.
 
So, the interests are very well aligned. They're very much shared.
 
WATSON: Shared interests that have led to growing military partnerships like the Quad, which includes India, the U.S., Japan, and Australia.
 
WATSON: India has long been described as the world's largest democracy. But critics argue some basic democratic freedoms have come under fire during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's nine years in office.
 
WATSON (voice over): A widespread crackdown on dissent, arresting protesters in the streets, jailing reporters and raiding news organizations that criticize the government.
 
SIDDHARTH VARADARAJAN, FOUNDING EDITOR, THE WIRE: We've been raided once. We've had cases filed against us over the past years. But the way in which the Modi government has been operating, has been one of -- targeting, of punishing journalists and media platforms that are trying to do their job.
 
WATSON: The U.S. State Department reports serious human rights issues in India, ranging from the unjustified prosecution of journalists to allegations of attacks against members of religious minorities.
 <br>[02:25:07]
 
Delhi says the reports are based on misinformation and flawed understanding.
 
Despite these differences, India's intensely popular, yet, polarizing prime minister has been invited to address the U.S. Congress on Thursday, a rare honor and a sign of the deepening ties between the U.S. and this South Asian giant.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WATSON (on camera): Now, more than 70 congressional Democrats have written a letter to President Biden, urging him to raise the issue of human rights in this meeting.
 
The White House says that will be discussed. And three Democrats have said they're actually going to boycott Modi's speech in Congress.
 
Biden, though, has made it very clear that it is important to court and enhance ties with the leader of the world's most populous country. Rosemary?
 
CHURCH: Ivan Watson, many thanks for that report. Appreciate it.
 
Well, now, to new tensions in the Taiwan Strait. Taiwan's defense ministry says a Chinese aircraft carrier, sailed through the area, Wednesday, remaining west of the median line dividing Mainland China and Taiwan.
 
Taiwan said it deployed forces to respond to the situation. The tensions come amid concerns China could consider invading Taiwan. A possibility Taiwan's military is preparing for.
 
CNN's Jim Sciutto has more in this exclusive report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Commanders of a Taiwanese mechanized infantry combat team lay out their battle plan.
 
Today's mission, defending the Penghu Islands, situated right in the middle of the Taiwan Strait from a Chinese paratrooper assault.
 
In rapid succession, infantry unit storm a captured airfield.
 
A column of tanks quickly follows. This maneuver is just a training exercise, but with a very serious goal of readying these forces to defend Taiwan from a Chinese invasion.
 
COL. CHANG CHI-MING, TAIWAN CHIEF OF OPERATIONS, FIRST COMBAT ZONE (through translator): In the event of a paratrooper assault on the Magong airbase, our troops will be able to respond instantly and defend the territory.
 
Exercises like this one are almost daily events on Taiwan's Penghu Islands. Less than 100 miles from Mainland China, they are a first line of defense for Taiwan against a Chinese invasion, home to Taiwanese Army, Air Force, and naval bases.
 
And not all operations for these forces are simulations. In fact, as I visited Penghu, four PLA Air Force fighter jets entered Taiwan's air defense identification zone.
 
Taiwanese Air Force fighters from Magong air base scrambled to respond. Before they fly, they are armed with live ammunition for combat.
 
Lieutenant Colonel Bi Shi Quan, call sign, Big, commands the Coyote Squadron. LT. COL. BI SHI QUAN, TAIWAN AIR FORCE (through translation): Sometimes it's reconnaissance. Sometimes, it is training. Although we are performing combat readiness missions here, the training has never stopped.
 
SCIUTTO: Are you proud of the job you're doing here?
 
QUAN: Of course.
 
SCIUTTO: Taiwanese Navy ships based here have had close calls of their own, and they sail with an array of antiship and anti-air missiles to do their part in defending against an invasion.
 
SCIUTTO: The Taiwanese military here in Penghu is engaged not just in drills and training, but in genuine operations, responding to Chinese military operations in the Taiwan Strait.
 
And commanders, and the Navy, the Air Force, and the Army, tell me their mission is to prepare to defend their country.
 
SCIUTTO: (voice-over): Taiwan buys billions of dollars in weapons from the U.S. But its defense plan depends, in large part on developing and manufacturing many of its own weapons. It's indigenous fighter jets, and many of its Navy frigates, and APCs, and tanks, are all Taiwan built.
 
CAPT. CHUNG-HSIAO PENG, TAIWAN NAVY: This is our territory water. We won't allow other countries' ship to sail through our waters without permission.
 
SCIUTTO: On Penghu, Taiwanese military units are widely dispersed for force protection, to make them more difficult targets for any invading force.
 
There is a saying here, one commander told me, if you want to take Taiwan, you have to take Penghu first. And these forces are training to make sure that never happens.
 
Jim Sciutto, CNN, the Penghu Islands, Taiwan.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: The desperate search for a small submersible in the open Atlantic and what it might take to rescue its five passengers if the sub can be found in time. Those details just ahead.
 
And a vehicle said to be carrying militants burns in the Westbank after an Israeli drone strike. Can anything stop the escalating violence between Israelis and Palestinians?
 <br>[02:30:02]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Updating our top story now. Search and rescue crews in the North Atlantic say they have not yet found any sign of a deep-water submersible that disappeared Sunday during a sightseeing dive to the Titanic shipwreck. Canadian surveillance planes picked up banging noises Tuesday and early Wednesday, but nothing has been reported since. The search grid now covers an area twice the size of Connecticut.
 
It's been almost four days since the last known contact and life support for those on board is believed to be critically low and mid freezing conditions. The five passengers, include OceanGate CEO Stockton Rush whose company designed and built the vessel. Well, this is not the first time a complicated rescue has been mounted to save crews from underwater journeys. CNN's Tom Foreman looks back at successful rescue attempts and others that ended in tragedy.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Racing time the elements in an ocean of unknowns. Those trying to find the Titan face dwindling odds of success. Underwater rescues are inherently complicated, dangerous, and the deep sea makes it all harder. Author Stephen McGinty knows.
 
STEPHEN MCGINTY, AUTHOR, THE DIVE: It's hard to even imagine that and, you know, two miles of water above you. The immense darkness, no natural light and the weight of that crushing weight -- crushing weight. So, you're operating in pitch darkness, eyes are depth that many things will feel.
 
FOREMAN (voiceover): His book, The Dive is about the deepest ocean rescue to date. In the early 1970s, the Pisces III sank nearly 1600 feet below the surface while laying an undersea phone cable off the coast of Ireland. For three days ships, submarines and robotic vessels struggled to get lines attached and hold up the submersible with its two experienced sailors. Finally, success.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: What was the stage at all when you -- when you began to wonder whether you'd ever get up safely?
 
ROGER MALLINSON, RESCUED SUBMARINER: Not at all. Now, we had about a day's supply left for our life support, and we knew what was going on. We could talk to the surface all of the time, so there's no trouble at all.
 
FOREMAN (voiceover): Not exactly, like the Titan, the Pisces had limited air just enough for 72 hours. The two men extended by lying still and not talking. And when they finally emerged after 84 hours, they had enough for only 12 minutes more. So, how different is the Titan's predicament? The Pisces was located quickly 120 miles offshore.
 <br>[02:35:05]
 
The Titan is still missing more than 400 miles from land. The Pisces had steady communications. No one has spoken with the Titan since it vanished. The Titan is in much deeper water. And yet even when the Pisces was pulled up, the men inside were terribly battered. MCGINTY: And they thought they were going to be smashed unconscious inside the sub. So, the sub was just rocking and rolling and spinning. And at one point the bait for them for the lift to stop.
 
FOREMAN (voiceover): There have been other undersea rescue attempts. In 1939, when the USS Squalus sank off the East Coast in less than 250 feet of the water, 26 men drowned, 33 were saved. In 2000, when the Russian sub-Kursk suffered a pair of onboard explosions in the barren sea. Despite early hopes for survivors, the entire crew of 118 perished.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOREMAN (on camera): But there are so few of these examples and they are so widely different. Each time an incident like this comes along rescuers must simultaneously look at the history and rewrite the book. Tom Foreman CNN, Washington.
 
CHURCH: Russia's Supreme Court is scheduled to meet this hour in Moscow deciding whether jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, will be allowed to correspond with the outside world. Right now, Navalny is only allowed to speak with his lawyers. Navalny is serving a nine-year sentence on fraud charges that his supporters and Western governments say are politically motivated. And earlier this week, the Russian state charged him with extremism. He could face up to 30 more years in jail if convicted.
 
A violence continues to escalate between Israelis and Palestinians in the West Bank. On Wednesday and Israeli attack drone destroyed a car which Israel said was carrying a terrorist cell. The last time and Israeli airstrike was used for a targeted killing in the West Bank was during the Second Intifada two decades ago. Islamic Jihad said three Palestinian militants were killed, and it follows a night of violence by Israeli settlers who rampage through several Palestinian towns in the West Bank. 
 
Attacking residents throwing rocks at homes and shops and setting farm fields and vehicles on fire. Some Palestinians complained IDF soldiers did nothing to prevent the violence. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Wednesday acts of violence by anyone would not be tolerated.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL (through translator): I give full backing to the Israeli police and the security forces and their action to control law and order. We will not accept any provocations to the police or the security forces in these places or anywhere else. We are a country of law.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: One Palestinian was killed in the rampage and hundreds of people turned out Wednesday for his funeral. Palestinian T.V. identified him as 27-year-old Omar Qateen. Heavy fighting broke out across parts of Sudan's capital on Wednesday at the end of yet another ceasefire. Videos published by the Sudanese Armed Forces showed soldiers firing weapons in Khartoum, with the sound of shelling in the background. And SAF soldiers celebrating after allegedly capturing a rapid support forces vehicle in Omdurman. The warring sides have now been battling each other for more than two months. Coming up next, a fiery blast rock central Paris, what authorities say is behind the explosion.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:40:00]
 
CHURCH: At least 37 people were hurt when a powerful gas explosion rocked central Paris. Hundreds of firefighters rushed to the scene Wednesday following the blast and rescue workers were searching for at least two people believed to be missing in the rubble. CNN's Melissa Bell has more now from Paris.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN PARIS CORRESPONDENT: An entire part of the left bank of Paris entirely cordoned off. The results say local officials of a gas explosion that took place just before 5:00 p.m. Paris time. What the eyewitnesses say is that it was so loud, such a great explosion. It sounded and felt like an earthquake with the walls of local departments are shaking. You can see behind me the relief operations still going on some 270 firemen sent to the scene to try and put out the fires that were set off in the nearby buildings and arrange for some time. An inquiry has been opened into exactly what went on but again, local officials speaking of a gas explosion. The local Paris Mayor came here earlier speaking of the thoughts and prayers that were now for the victims and their families. Melissa Bell, CNN Paris.
 
CHURCH: Wednesday marked the first day of summer in the Northern Hemisphere and as they have done for thousands of years, people flocked to Stonehenge for the sunrise. The ancient structure has long been associated with both the summer and winter solstice because of the stone's alignment with sunrise and sunset on those days.
 
This year's festivities attracted thousands of visitors from all over the world. It's the second time the gatherings have been allowed since the pandemic. Great things there. Thanks so much for joining us, I'm Rosemary Church. "WORLD SPORT" is coming up next. Then I'll be back in 15 minutes with more CNN NEWSROOM. Do stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[03:00:00]