Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Blinken Meets with Chinese President; Extreme Weather in the South; Former White House Officials Condemn Handling of Classified Documents; Juneteenth Celebration Takes Deadly Turn. Aired 9-9:30a ET

Aired June 19, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:35] 
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN ANCHOR: Secretary of State Antony Blinken is in China today for a high stakes visit, holding talk with the country's top diplomas, as well as Chinese President Xi Jinping. What the two sides are saying about today's critical meetings. 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: At least eight people dead in a string of mass shootings over just two days. New information on the victims and the suspects. 
 
SOLOMON: And people in Mississippi cleaning up after storms slammed the state. Take a look, this brand-new drone video this morning showing a path of destruction. And the threat is not over. Tens of millions of Americans at risk of severe weather today. We are following these major developing stories and many more all coming in right here to CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
After high stakes talks in Beijing, where do tensions between two global superpowers go from here. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken now heading back to Washington, fresh off that critical sit- down with President Xi Jinping and other top Chinese diplomats. Blinken calls his conversations candid and constructive. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE: I came to Beijing to strengthen high level challenge in communication, to make clear our positions and intentions in areas of disagreement and to explore areas where we might work together on our interests align, on shared transnational challenges. And we did all of that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: As for President Xi, he called the roughly 30-minute meeting very good, adding the two sides, quote, made progress and reached agreements on some specific issues. A major question now, which ones? 
 
Here are the key points of tension, Taiwan, spying, the war in Ukraine and restrictions that the U.S. has placed on the sale of semi- conducting chips. 
 
But let's start with Taiwan. So, right now the island is a self-ruling democracy, but Beijing
 
 claims it's their territory. The U.S. has vowed to stand with Taiwan, a key trading partner, if China ever invaded. 
 
Another flash point, spying and surveillance. Blinken's trip was delayed four months after the takedown of this Chinese spy balloon. Remember this? It was caught flying across the U.S. 
 
Then there's Beijing's close ties with Moscow and the question of whether China would provide lethal aid in Russia's war in Ukraine. 
 
And finally, Beijing's anger over U.S. efforts to limit the sale of semiconductor chips, chips that are a technology that's in everything from smartphones to cars. China's growing dominance in that industry, a major concern of the Biden administration. 
 
CNN national security correspondent Kylie Atwood live for us in Beijing. 
 
Kylie, a lot of issues, as we just laid out there. What are the key headlines coming out of these talks? 
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, listen, one of the things that the secretary of state set out here in Beijing to accomplish was reestablishing setting up military to military channels of communication. Essentially lines of communication that could be used in the case of a crisis between the two countries. That's given the fact that there have been two recent military incidents between the U.S. and China just in recent weeks in the South China Sea, in the air and by the sea as well. But that is not an area where he is headed back to Washington with a victory. He said that the Chinese didn't agree to set up those channels. 
 
Listen to what he told me earlier today at the press conference. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE: This is also something that I raised repeatedly during this trip. I think it's absolutely vital that we have these kind of communications, military to military. That imperative, I think, was only underscored by recent incidents that we saw in the air and on the seas. And, at this moment, China has not agreed to move forward with that. I think that's an issue that we have to keep working on. It is very important that we restore those channels. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ATWOOD: Now, we also know one of the issues that you mentioned out of the gates there was Taiwan. One of the readouts from a meeting that the secretary had here made clear that Chinese officials made demands when it comes to Taiwan. They said that is the area that presents the most pronounced risk to U.S.-China relations. 
 <br>[09:05:04] The secretary of state said at the press conference that he made clear that the U.S. has concerns about China's provocative actions when it comes to Taiwan. And the United States doesn't, right now, support Taiwan's independence, but they don't support either side taking unilateral actions that could upend the status quo currently. 
 
Now, there was progress, forward movement, on another topic, and that's an issue of synthetic opioids, which, of course, is a major killer of Americans back home. Fentanyl, the precursor chemicals for fentanyl, largely come from China. Secretary of state said that the two sides agreed to stand up a working level meeting on this, a group that can actually address this issue to stem that flow of those chemicals into the United States. And on Ukraine they also addressed the war in Ukraine. The secretary said that Chinese officials once again said that they are not going to be sending lethal aid to Russia to be used in that war but they're still watching Chinese companies incredibly closely. 
 
SOLOMON: Kylie Atwood, thank you. So, it sounds like still quiet room to go on certain issues but progress made on others. 
 
Kylie Atwood, live for us in Beijing.
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, with us now, CNN political and national security analyst David Sanger.
 
David, the secretary of state said he accomplished what he set out to do. How much of that was just being in the room with Xi Jinping? 
 
DAVID SANGER, CNN POLITICAL AND NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: Oh, I think a lot of it was, John. And the fact that Xi Jinping saw him was a good sign that the president of China doesn't always see a visiting secretary of state. This, obviously, a somewhat difference in status there. And so that was an indication that, in fact, Xi Jinping did want to put a floor on the relationship. 
 
But I think as Kylie described there, and as we heard from Secretary Blinken during the press conference, it was sort of a mixed score card. The fact that they agreed to work together on a couple of issues that they did not specify is good. The fact that they couldn't get something as basic together as communications during a military crisis or another spy balloon incident, that's bad because that's how accidents happen. And the big fear, John, is that these two powers, as their relationship has been spiraling downward, get into some kind of accident in the air, in the sea that triggers a real crisis. 
 
BERMAN: You used an interesting phrase there that I want to highlight. Xi Jinping wanted to put a floor on the relationship, which by that I think you mean he didn't want it to get any worse between China and the United States. In terms of what got better, what got better for the United States over the last several hours? 
 
SANGER: I think the main thing that got better is that we actually have communications. The last time that president - that Secretary Blinken saw Wang Yi, who's the number one foreign policy official, was in Munich back in February. And I remember seeing Secretary Blinken the next morning. And he described how Wang Yi had basically sought an apology from the United States for shooting down the Chinese spy balloon over American territory. Well, that's not a great start. 
 
He did better this time. Though it was interesting that in the statement that the Chinese issued, Wang Yi said, let's avoid hyping the China threat theory. So, in other words, they're pretty unhappy with this sensibility in the U.S., which is probably likely to get worse as we get closer to the presidential election, that China is a looming threat. 
 
BERMAN: David, I think there are two other governments that were watching this meeting very closely, one in Ukraine, one in Taiwan. What did each of those governments think about what we saw here? 
 
SANGER: Well, I think - I would say there were three. The last one would be one in Russia because the most notable thing in the - in the past year and a half has been the coming together of China and Russia as partners, not necessarily full allies. And that is intensified as the Ukraine war has gone on. And that's what's got the Ukrainians most concerned and, of course, led to those warnings from the U.S. to China about the possibility of supplying Russia with arms that they could use against Ukraine. 
 
I'm sure the Ukrainians were quite happy to hear a new assurance from President Xi that they are not going to supply arms to Russia. They are supplying -- or their companies are supplying -- technology that is helping Russia build arms. If you're Taiwan, I'm not sure much moved on the needle here. And this is the really big question, John, because we know that Xi Jinping has said he wants to solve the Taiwan issue, that is bring about reunification, while he is still in office.
 <br>[09:10:10]
 
And, you know, he's 70. So, let's say he's there for another decade. That's not a lot of time.
 
BERMAN: What's next, David? 
 
SANGER: Well, what's next is seeing whether they can build on this and get some other cabinet officials to China. The two that are named the most often are the commerce secretary, Gina Raimondo, and the treasury secretary, and the -- Janet Yellen. And the hope is that they are working in areas where China may see a real opportunity to reopen relations because China right now, John, is growing at 1 percent or 2 percent, not the 6 percent or 8 percent they're accustomed to. So, they have a real interest in reigniting the economic relationship with the U.S.
 
And then, ultimately, whether or not President Xi comes to a big summit meeting of Asian nations in San Francisco. And that would be in the fall. 
 
BERMAN: We'll be watching it very, very closely. 
 
David Sanger, thank you so much. I think you make us understand it so much better this morning. Appreciate it. 
 
Rahel.
 
SANGER: Thank you.
 
SOLOMON: Well, incredible new video showing the catastrophic damage in Mississippi this morning. This after a large tornado touched down in Louin, Mississippi, last night. So, this drone video shows the large swath of damage through the small town. You can see just homes ripped apart, roofs sent flying and trees left in sprinters. We have just learned also that one person was killed in the storm, nearly two dozen more injured. And the threat, not over yet. More tornadoes could develop today across the southeast. 
 
So, let's bring in now our meteorologist Derek Van Dam in the Weather Center. 
 
Derek, in terms of what you're watching, what states are most at risk now? 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, AMS CERTIFIED METEOROLOGIST: Yes, good morning, Rahel. 
 
We have Florida panhandle and southern Mississippi, Alabama, as well as central and southern Georgia with the potential for severe weather, including tornadoes today. Now, it's not as distinct or as widespread as what we experienced over the weekend, but as we have learned, it only takes one tornado to hit a populated area to create the damage that you've seen in Louin, Mississippi, also Perryton, Texas, over the course of the weekend as well. So, we are monitoring these storms very closely.
 
This is an updated probability map from the Storm Prediction Center. And this came out just literally moments ago. I was working with my producer to update this map. 
 
You see that shading of yellow. This is the probability of a tornado today. That encompasses southern Alabama, Mississippi and the extreme western sections of the Florida panhandle. So, Mobile, Alabama, for instance, you have a 5 percent probability of tornadoes anywhere around a given point that you select within that area. And that's because we still have these kind of outflow boundaries from the thunderstorms that are ongoing across the south. 
 
A few stronger thunderstorms now impacting the Tallahassee region. This now coming into the CNN Weather Center. Latest update, severe thunderstorm warning for Tallahassee. So, prepare for the potential for 60 mile per hour winds and greater as the storm system continues. 
 
Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: Derek, let's also talk about some of the triple digit heat that's expected in parts of Texas and how complicating or the stress that that then puts on the power grid. 
 
VAN DAM: Yes, that is really going to put it to the test today. And that is because the triple digit heat that continued through this weekend will last right through the workweek this week. So, Monday to Friday, we are anticipating over 60 record highs in the state of Texas alone. 
 
Now, you factor in the humidity. That's when it gets extremely uncomfortable. And that's when people are going to start cranking up their air conditioners to maximum. 
 
Now, wait until you see these feel like temperatures. In terms of actual temperatures, we're running about 10 to 15 degrees above average. But it's really when you factor in that humidity we get this feels like or heat indices value. That is not a typo. Corpus Christi, 121 degrees. That is their expected feels like temperature today. So, you factor in the relative humidity. That is what we feel like when we step outside on our exposed skin. And that is why we are going to be testing the energy grid across the deep south. 
 
SOLOMON: A lot to watch there. Derek Van Dam, thank you. 
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right, strong words from Donald Trump's former defense secretary. Mark Esper's warning about a possible second Trump term. 
 
A deadly ambush. A state trooper is dead, another injured, when a suspect takes them on a two-hour manhunt. 
 
And a terrifying mystery. Who sent letters containing a suspicious white powder to nearly 100 state lawmakers and public officials? 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:18:46]
 
SOLOMON: Welcome back. 
 
Two former top cabinet officials of Donald Trump sounding the alarm over his bid to return to the White House. Former Attorney General Bill Barr says that the federal indictment over Trump's handling of classified documents show that the former president will always put his own ego ahead of the country's interests and former Defense Secretary Mark Esper says he believes Trump put the nation's military secrets and safety at risk if the allegations against him are proven. 
 
Listen to what Esper told CNN's Jake Tapper. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Based on your experiences working with the Trump and the actions alleged in the indictment, do you think Trump can be trusted with the nation's secrets ever again? 
 
MARK Esper, FORMER DEFENSE SECRETARY: Well, based on his actions, again if proven true, under the indictment by the special counsel, no. I mean it's just irresponsible action that places our service members at risk, places our nation's security at risk. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SOLOMON: CNN's Alayna Treene joins us now live in Washington. 
 
Alayna, pretty striking comments. What do you make of them? 
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER: Well, they are very striking, Rahel. These are some of the starkest comments that we've heard, not just from these former Trump administration officials, but Republicans in general regarding the federal charges that the former president is facing. And both Mark Esper, his former defense secretary, and his former attorney general, Bill Barr, are saying that if he is convicted in this case and the charges against him are proven to be true, that Donald Trump should not be president again. 
 <br>[09:20:15]
 
And I think what Mark Esper said is really a dire warning if Donald Trump is re-elected for a second term and is back in the White House. He said that what Donald Trump did was irresponsible and it put the lives of service members at risk. 
 
And as you said, Rahel, we also have heard some very strong criticism from former Attorney General Bill Barr. He's repeatedly gone on the airwaves to talk about these charges and the seriousness of them. And he said that the charges are damning and that Donald Trump is not a victim in this. 
 
Let's listen to what he told CBS News yesterday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Would he put the country at risk if he was in the White House again? 
 
BILL BARR, FORMER ATTORNEY GENERAL: He - he will always put his own interest and gratifying his own ego ahead of everything else, including the country's interest. There's no question about it. There is a perfect example of that. He's like - you know, he's a like a 9- year-old -- a defiant nine-year-old kid who's always pushing the glass towards the edge of the table, defying his parents to stop him from doing it. It's a means of self-exertion and exerting his dominance over other people. And he's a - he's a very petty individual who will always put his interests ahead of the country's. His personal gratification of his, you know, of his ego. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TREENE: Now, Rahel, I think it's important to note that Bill Barr and Mark Esper were not just former Trump administration officials, they were cabinet-level secretaries or -- and attorney general. And I think that, you know, they also had access to some of the most highly sensitive materials that Donald Trump had when in office. And both of them had said that the documents that were in his possession were very classified and should have been in the hands of the National Archives, should have not been taken back with him to Mar-a-Lago. 
 
Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: Things getting very personal. Fascinating to her AG Barr call him petty. 
 
Alayna, has Donald Trump's team reacting or responded to any of this? 
 
TREENE: Well, obviously, Donald Trump's team is arguing something very different. I was in Bedminster when he returned from his arraignment in Miami last Tuesday and spoke to a crowd of supporters at his golf club in New Jersey. And he said that he believed -- Donald Trump said that he believed he was entitled to taking these documents with him and that others were not prosecuted for doing the same thing. 
 
Of course, prosecutors in this case are arguing that the materials in his possession were some of the most classified documents and that his unwillingness to turn them over amounts to obstruction.
 
But I think what's really striking about this is Republicans in Congress, as well as some of Donald Trump's 2024 presidential rivals, are kind of leaning into what Donald Trump is saying and the excuses he's making for having these materials, whereas Mark Esper and Bill Barr are not. And I think that's why it's very interesting to hear where they differ on this from the rest of the Republican Party, Rahel. 
 
SOLOMON: Alayna Treene, live for us in Washington. Alayna, thank you. 
 
John, if I remember correctly, AG Barr also said in that interview with "Face the Nation" yesterday that this -- the whole legal theory that he's claiming that he could take anything is absurd. 
 
BERMAN: Yes, Barr was - it was kind of like William Barr unplugged -
 
SOLOMON: Yes, that's one way to put it.
 
BERMAN: On a Sunday morning. It was really interesting to see.
 
So, a string of mass shootings across the country. In St. Louis, a 17- year-old was shot and killed during a party, nine other teenagers were hurt. Police say one girl suffered serious spinal injuries after being trampled running from the scene. Authorities say they recovered multiple weapons, including an AR-15-style rifle and a handgun. A 17- year-old suspect is in custody. 
 
And in central Washington state, two people were killed in a mass shooting on campgrounds near the Beyond Wonderland Electronic Dance Music Festival. The sheriff's office says the suspected gunman shot randomly into a crowd as he ran from the scene. Officers tracked him down and arrested him. 
 
Now, just outside Chicago, a Juneteenth celebration took a deadly turn after police say an unknown number of suspects fired multiple rounds into the crowd. One person was killed, at least 22 others were hurt. 
 
CNN's Adrienne Broaddus joins us now from Willowbrook, Illinois. 
 
Adrienne, what do they know about who did this, the victims? What are you learning this morning? 
 
ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: No arrests have been made, John, and we're told multiple suspects likely fired into the crowd that was gathered in this parking lot behind me. If you look over my shoulder you'll notice the entrance leading to the parking lot is still blocked and police are on scene. But in that parking lot there are red Solo cups. There's also a grill. 
 
I spoke with a woman who was walking along the street. She was here this weekend. And she says it was a Juneteenth celebration. That's what a spokesperson with the DuPage County Sheriff's Department also shared with us, even saying deputies were on site monitoring the party. 
 
But they were deployed to another call, but returned immediately when they heard the shots fired. And as you mentioned, John, 22 people were shot. 
 <br>[09:25:04]
 
One person was killed. 
 
Here is how witnesses described the scene. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BARTOSZ MAJERCZYK, WITNESS: Out of nowhere there was like a major gun fight for like 30 seconds, I'd say 60 - 60 plus, you know, rounds. And you could tell it was like two different, you know, groups of people shooting at each other. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Everybody started running. There was a man. He fell on top of me. He had a gunshot wound in his leg. It was -- it was like something you wouldn't imagine. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROADDUS: Again, no arrests have been made and investigators are still trying to determine what led to that shooting. 
 
John.
 
BERMAN: All right. Adrienne Broaddus, if we hear from officials today, please keep us posted. 
 
Rahel.
 
SOLOMON: And on our radar this morning, a Pennsylvania state trooper has died after a shootout with a gunman. A second trooper is in the hospital fighting for his life. Officials say that the suspect first shot at police vehicles parked outside a police barracks on Saturday before fleeing in his truck. Officers chased him and exchanged gunfire at multiple locations. The gunman was eventually shot and killed. 
 
Twenty-one-year-old Eva Liu, a recent graduate of the University of Illinois Urbana Champagne, has been identified as the American tourist who died in Germany. This after she was assaulted and pushed into a ravine. She was with her classmate, Kelsey Chang, who did try to rescue her from their attacker. Chang was also pushed into the ravine but survived. The suspect, a 30-year-old man, who is also a U.S. citizen, is in custody. His name has not been released. 
 
And Texas the latest state to extend Medicaid coverage for new moms. It will now last 12 months rather than just 60 days. That's under a new law just signed by Governor Greg Abbott. Thirty-five states and the District of Columbia have now extended their Medicaid postpartum coverage to a full year. 
 
John.
 
BERMAN: So, Russia trying a new tactic on the battlefield, claiming it used a remote controlled tank packed with explosives to attack Ukraine. 
 
And then he came out of nowhere. Wyndham Clark wins his first U.S. Open, his first Major, just his second PGA event ever, beating out golf's best, including Rory McIlroy, Scottie Scheffler, not before grief almost forced him to walk away from the game.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:30:00]