Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Tensions Ignite Across U.S. College Campuses; Explanation of Daylight Savings Time Ahead of This Weekend`s Clock Change; Scotland Monstrous Mystery Lurks and Lingers. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired November 03, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  What`s up sunshine. It`s time to shine. Welcome to CNN 10. It`s Friday, rise up. I`m your host Coy Wire. Let`s get 
 
 dominating this day with the best 10 minutes in news. We`ve got everything covered this week, right, from workers strikes to Royal visits in Kenya to 
 
 AI. But we start today with news regarding the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas. Looking further into how the world is responding this time on 
 
 some college campuses in the U.S. where tensions are running high. 
 
Some students have been holding rallies, vigils, and protests to voice their feelings about this war. Some are pro-Israeli, the nation where at 
 
 least 1400 people were killed when Hamas attacked on October 7th, others are pro-Palestinian in the ongoing counter attacks by Israel, nearly 10,000 
 
 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza, the area where Hamas is based. Many students, regardless of their stance are attempting to condemn violence 
 
 overall, while largely peaceful, some student groups have erupted into fighting at colleges, including North Carolina Chapel Hill, Indiana 
 
 University, and Tulane University.
 
Because of competing protests at Columbia University administrators, temporary closed campus on Thursday. Universities have been the centerpiece 
 
 of demonstrations throughout the years. Notably as students fought for civil rights in 1960s and protested U.S. involvement in the Vietnam war in 
 
 the 1970s. The first amendment gives students and everyone the right to express themselves stating that no laws can restrict "freedom of speech" or 
 
 of the press or the right of the people peaceably to assemble."
 
Throughout the years, though, the Supreme Court has stated that that protection has limits and does not include inciting violence. On Tuesday at 
 
 Cornell University, a student was arrested for allegedly threatening to harm Jewish students in an online post. And the student has been charged in 
 
 federal court. 
 
Well, Cornell closed on Friday telling CNN this was meant to ease the stress that`s been felt in the past weeks. Some Jewish students have told 
 
 CNN that they`re seeing an increase in anti-Jewish action and hatred, which is referred to as antisemitic. Antisemitism has long been a problem on 
 
 college campuses. And in a survey done in March over half of Jewish students responded saying they`d witnessed or experienced an antisemitic 
 
 incident. 
 
At the same time, however, advocacy groups like the Council on American Islamic Relations and the Anti-Defamation league say Muslim people 
 
 throughout the country have also been the target of increasing harassment and attacks. The type of which are referred to as Islamophobic. President 
 
 Biden, who has voiced his administration`s support of Israel has now stated that his administration will also work on a first ever strategy to combat 
 
 anti-Muslim sentiment. 
 
College administrators are tasked with attempting to ease tensions on campuses while also expressing support for their student bodies, and their 
 
 rights. Many colleges have released statements about the war in the middle east, but some of those responses have incited further protest. Some 
 
 universities are choosing to refrain from weighing in at all that has come with some criticism as well. We`ll continue to keep you updated on this 
 
 issue right here on CNN 10. 
 
It`s about that time for Daylight Saving Time. This first Sunday in November, we will fall back or turn our clocks back an hour, or our 
 
 smartphones will do it for us. So do we gain an hour of sleep or lose an hour? Well, if you usually get up at 6:00 a.m., you`re now going to be 
 
 getting up at what would`ve been 7:00 a.m. So yes, we will gain an hour of sleep, hallelujah. On the first Sunday in March. We spring forward or set 
 
 our clocks forward an hour. 
 
Daylight Saving Time has been used for more than a century. It was enacted to help us make more use of the day`s light. But a Monmouth University poll 
 
 found most Americans wants to stop recognizing it altogether. Some doctors even say the clock change isn`t healthy and can cause headaches in some of 
 
 us by affecting the hypothalamus in the brain. The part that manages our circadian rhythm, the circadian rhythm helps all living things adapt and 
 
 respond to light and dark within a 24-hour span. 
 
Ten second trivia. 
 
If you`re visiting a loch in Scotland, what are you visiting? A castle, a bridge, a lake or a school? 
 
Ding, ding, ding, ding answer is, a loch. That`s a lake or large body of water surrounded by land.
 
For today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, we`re headed to Scotland to check up on a tale of a monster named Nessie in a Loch named Ness. Here CNN`s Max 
 
 Burnell with more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX BURNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Scotland`s Loch Ness has long been shrouded in mystery with reports of monsters lurking in its inky depth 
 
 stating back to ancient times, it came to the world`s attention in the 1930s with a string of reported sightings and an iconic photo. And while it 
 
 has turned out to be one of many hoaxes, monster hunters and curious, tourists alike have continued to flock here ever since.
 
Now after more than 90 years of fascination, they can visit a new 1.9 million center dedicated to all things Loch Ness monster. While those 
 
 wanting to take a closer look can take a trip on the deep scan research vessel. Its skipper Alistair Matheson has spent the last 10 years giving 
 
 visitors and researchers their best chance of spotting Nessie.
 
ALISTAIR MATHESON, DEEPSCAN CAPTAIN LOCH NESS PROJECT:  We have been working in recent years out here. We`ve done a few big projects. One of 
 
 those projects involved mapping the bottom of Lock Ness. Now, we were using some very clever equipment. And using that equipment I can confirm to you 
 
 all we did. In fact, find the Lock Ness monster. 
 
This is the very monster we found here. Well, not quite, not quite, I`m afraid because, because it turned out it was this. So it was actually built 
 
 for a movie. But back in the real world, we`re going to sail out into the middle of the loch. You will get to see the size of Loch Ness. It`s fairly 
 
 big, of course. Loch Ness is 23 miles long, but on average it`s only a mile wide and it`s deep as well. 
 
So right now we are 226 meters deep and 227 is maximum depth, big red dot. That`s going to be our monster. In 10 years that I`ve been doing this three 
 
 times on the echo center in the big red dot. That would be my closest encounter with a monster.
 
BURNELL:  Between 2018 and 2019, the Deepscan helped conduct a DNA survey of the loch while the large amounts of eel DNA found pointed to a more 
 
 terrestrial explanation. It didn`t deter monster hunter, Alan McKenna from organizing the biggest creature hunt for 50 years back in August. But the 
 
 lack of concrete evidence over the years has done little to dampen the mystery for many.
 
MATHESON:  Definitive proof is always what we want. Isn`t it -- we always want to know yes or no and everything about life, not just monsters, but 
 
 for me, there`s a mystery here. And that`s what I firmly believe in.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  All right, it has been so nice learning with you this week and laughing and having some fun. Halloween was epic. My family were witches, 
 
 black cats, and I was the magic broomstick carrying the tiny witches on the candy hunts. 
 
And how about these costumes? Paul from Mr. Neypossi`s (ph) class in Boston`s Spa, New York, looking mighty fierce, I have to say. And dad, Mr. 
 
 Rispo (ph) rocking the room and rains look. Or how about the firewalls? Ms. Seamers (ph) and Mrs. Statomyer (ph) at Tumwater in Washington. Now that`s 
 
 a 10 out of 10. Thanks to all of you. We have officially reached 800,000 subscribers on our YouTube channel. So now I can do two shoutouts at the 
 
 end of every YouTube version of the show. 
 
Today`s shoutout go to Bellmont High School Decatur, Indiana. We see you. And Chaney Middle School in West Fargo, North Dakota, rise up. Have a great 
 
 weekend everyone. And remember you are more powerful than you know. I`m Coy. This is CNN 10. It`s been a blessing to spend this week with you.
 
END