Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Tennessee Ousted Lawmakers Fallout; Texas Judge Decides to Suspend FDA Approval of Abortion Pill; Texas Governor Aims to Pardon Man Convicted of Killing BLM Protester; Biden Headed to Northern Ireland for Historic Anniversary; Dalai Lama Apologizes After Video Goes Viral; Tense Calm as Thousands of Worshippers Gather in Jerusalem. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired April 10, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us in the United States and all around the world. I'm Bianca Nobilo live from London. Max Foster is off today. Just ahead on CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CROWD: The people united will never be divided. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Because they're not following Democratic processes. That's why we felt that we had to break the rule. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They rushed into it, and they rushed into a into a sinkhole. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is not America. What you saw by that one judge in that one court in that one state that's not America. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: A single judge can essentially undermine approval by the FDA for other drugs. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Quite a bit of alarm among U.S. officials, particularly at the Pentagon.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Really generates a lack of trust between nations, both friends and foes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)  
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from London. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Max Foster and Bianca Nobilo. 
 
NOBILO: It is Monday, April 10th 9:00 a.m. here in London, 4:00 a.m. on the U.S. East Coast. 
 
We begin in Tennessee, where officials are set to determine the fate of expelled Democratic state lawmaker Justin Jones. In the coming hours, the Nashville Metro Council will vote on whether to reinstate him back into the states House of Representatives. Jones was one of the two Black lawmakers expelled by a Republican supermajority last week for taking part in a gun reform protests on the House floor. A third member who was white was spared. The expelled lawmakers say the move was racially motivated. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JUSTIN PEARSON, EXPELLED STATE LAWMAKER: It has always been a toxic work environment to work in the Tennessee state capital when you have people who make comments about hanging you on a tree and hanging Black people on a tree as a form of capital punishment. When you wear a dashiki on the House floor, and a member gets up and they talk about your dashiki, saying it's unprofessional. They're really sending signals that you don't belong here. 
 
JUSTIN JONES, EXPELLED STATE LAWMAKER: I think our presence as young Black voices for our constituencies, people who will not bow down, those who will not be conformed. That's what made -- put it target us the day we walked into Tennessee General Assembly. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Both lawmakers have defended their actions and say they want to be reappointed. CNN's Isabel Rosales has more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Monday evening, the metropolitan council here right behind me in Nashville will decide the political future of ousted lawmaker former representative Justin Jones. They are set to not only vote to appoint him but also vote to suspend a council rule that prohibits an appointment and a nomination from happening during the same meeting. It If they're successful with that, then they will go ahead and appoint him to his former seat as an interim successor. 
 
They will need a supermajority for that. That's 27 council members to vote for that. We've also heard from a councilman Jeff Syracuse that they have not received any threats here of any sort of political retribution for reappointing Justin Jones back to his seat. 
 
Meanwhile when Justin Pearson, the other ousted lawmaker, he delivered a powerful sermon on Easter Sunday. Take a listen. 
 
PEARSON: Resurrection is always a promise to us. Let them be tough. Let them lynch us. To lecture expel them. Let them kick out us. Let them do what they lost. There's a promise. Sunday is a resurrection is on the way. 
 
ROSALES: And when it comes to Pearson's vacancy that is entirely up to the Shelby County Board of Commissioners' will. We're told by the chairman that they are not planning to discuss Pearson's situation up until the regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday. And even then, it's unclear when they will schedule a special meeting to address that open seat. 
 
We are also seeing on social media organizers, Nashvillians right here are organizing a day of action. So, they will meet here before the city council rally. And then after that city council meeting, they will go over and march to the state capital. 
 
Isabelle Rosales, CNN, Nashville, Tennessee. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: And several state officials are condemning the expulsion. A member of the Nashville Metro Council who will hold that special meeting says thousands of her constituents are demanding that both the ousted lawmakers be reinstated. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
JEFF SYRACUSE, NASHVILLE METROPOLITAN COUNCIL: Decorum was broken for sure, but it was an egregious act to actually expel him and Justin Pearson from the legislature. That was -- that action did not meet the transgression that that occurred which was a breach of decorum. No Tennessee elected official has ever been expelled for just breaking decorum. 
 
KYONZTE TOOMBS, NASHVILLE METROPOLITAN COUNCIL: The actions of the legislature last week have definitely given representative Jones and Pearson are larger stage. As you said, they are activists. They speak for the people. They've been involved in the community for years when individuals elected them to that seat. They knew who they were. They wanted an activist in those seats. Someone who would be unapologetic and speak for the people. And so you'll see the people won't be silenced. And so, you'll see a lot more protests until they are restored to their seats. 
 
REP. STEVE COHEN (D-TN): Many people contact me through emails and phone calls, saying how they never thought Tennessee was this type of state that we were different. Now they put us in the bottom right of states, and they just find this to be objectionable that has it certainly has a racist appearance. I think it was more of a control issue than racist, but it was -- it was just too heavy handed. 
 
I wrote the speaker in its suggestion that that they had committed a wrong and that they had violated the rules. But that it should be dealt with by a censure or by committee assignment restrictions or something to that effect, but no way should it have been expulsion vote. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: The U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary says the Biden administration is considering all options after a Texas judge ruled to suspend the Food and Drug Administration's approval of the medication abortion drug. The secretary explained the concern over the ruling to CNN's Dana Bash. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) XAVIER BECERRA, U.S. HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES SECRETARY: you're not talking about just mifepristone. You're talking about every kind of drug. You're talking about our vaccines. You're talking about insulin. You're talking about the new Alzheimer's drugs that may come on.
 
If a judge decides to substitute his preference, his personal opinion, for that of scientists and medical professionals, what drug isn't subject to some kind of legal challenge? 
 
I believe that an appeals court, a Supreme Court, whatever court has to understand that this ruling by this one judge overturns not just access to mifepristone, but possibly any number of drugs.
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR, STATE OF THE UNION: What if they don't?
 
BECERRA: That's speculation that I think is not worth engaging in.
 
BASH: But are you taking it off the table that you will recommend the FDA ignore a ban?
 
BECERRA: Everything is on the table. The president said that way back when the Dobbs decision came out. Every option is on the table.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
NOBILO: A spokesperson for the department later tried to walk back that comment, saying it would set a dangerous precedent for the administration to disregard a binding decision. The Justice Department and the drug's manufacturer has begun the appeals process. Within an hour of the Texas ruling, a judge in Washington state ruled in favor of 17 Democratic led states and Washington DC looking to expand access to the abortion pill, which allows them to keep the drug available. 
 
But it's the ruling in Texas that's drawing strong reaction including from lawmakers in Washington. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
REP. TONY GONZALES, (D-TX): The House Republicans have the power of the purse, and if the administration wants to, not -- not lead this ruling, not live up to this ruling, then we're going to have a problem. And that may be a come a point where house Republicans on the appropriation side have to defund FDA programs that don't make sense. 
 
SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): I want to protect as many babies as possible. I want exceptions for pregnancies as result of rape, incest, if life of the mother is in jeopardy, then the family can decide. I do believe in common sense restrictions on abortion. That's where America's at. We can win this issue at the ballot box if we show up with reasonable positions. If we have our head in the sand, we're going to lose.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: In Iowa there's criticism and anger from victim advocate groups after the after the "Des Moines Register" reported that the state has halted its practice of paying for emergency contraception and in some cases, abortions for sexual assault victims. A spokesperson for the newly elected Republican Attorney General said the payments were on hold as part of a of a review of victim services and as she evaluates whether this is an appropriate use of public funds. 
 
In a statement to the "Des Moines Register," the CEO of Planned Parenthood North Central States called the move deplorable and reprehensible. 
 
U.S. lawmaker Alexandra Ocasio Cortez says the reality of U.S. courts is disturbing after those two conflicting rulings over medication abortion. 
 
And on top of that the revelations that Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas went on several luxury trips subsidized by Republican donor Harlan Crow. The vacations were never disclosed. Thomas said that he was advised at the time that he didn't have to report it. But its Ocasio Cortez wants an impeachment investigation into the matter. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
REP. ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ (D-NY): It was the House's responsibility to pursue that investigation in the form of impeachment. We need to hold our systems accountable and I do not believe that we should be refusing to do that for political reasons. I believe that we should pursue the course. And if it is Republicans that decide to protect those who are breaking the law, then they are the ones who then are responsible for that decision. But we should not be complicit in that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: The governor of Texas, says he's working to pardon an army sergeant convicted of killing a Black Lives Matter protester. On Friday, a jury found Daniel Perry guilty of fatally shooting 28-year- old Garrett Foster. Just a day later, Governor Greg Abbott announced the potential pardon even before a judge set a date for Perry's sentencing. CNN's Camila Bernal has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: When it comes to the pardon, Governor Greg Abbott is pointing to self defense and to the that in Texas. But the district attorney in Travis County says this is troubling and says in the legal process, it is a jury who gets to decide not the governor. 
 
Now in terms of the case, this all happened in 2020 during a Black Lives Matter protests in Austin, Texas. And Daniel Perry was driving for rideshare company. He at some point encounters protesters and specifically encounters Garrett Foster, who was 28 years old at the time. And Perry's defense team says that Foster, who was carrying an AK-47, raised that AK-47 that Perry felt like his life was in jeopardy. That's when he decided to pull out the gun from his car and shoot and kill Foster. 
 
Now the district attorney in Travis County, saying that this was not self defense. Saying that this was murder and a jury here agreed on Friday. I want you to listen to Foster's father and his reaction after that verdict.
 
STEPHEN FOSTER, GARRETT FOSTER'S FATHER: I would just like to say thank you for that legal team that represented us and the jury and we're happy with the verdict. We are very sorry for his family as well. It just -- there's no winners in this and I'm just glad it's over.
 
BERNAL: Now, the governor says he will work quickly to pardon Perry. He wants an expedited process in all of this. But keep in mind, Perry has not been sentenced. He has not appealed his conviction yet. So, there's still a lot that needs to happen here in the legal process. 
 
Camila Bernal, CNN, Los Angeles.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NOBILO: A historic strike is set to happen in the coming hours at Rutgers University. Three unions representing about 9,000 faculty and staff at the New Jersey school decided to walk out over wages, equal pay and affordable housing, among other things. It will be the first time in the university's 257-year history that an academic strike has happened on campus. One union official is appealing to the community for support. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REBECCA GIVAN, RUTGERS AAUP-ART: I hope when you're on the picket lines, you'll make a point of talking to someone who's part of this community that you've never met before, you've never seen before. Someone with a different job title, students that are out there and support. Please talk about why we're out there. Understand that our solidarity is our power. We want to transform the Rutgers to the place it can be and it should be. And we know by standing together we will succeed. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: On Sunday, Rutgers president issued a statement saying he was deeply disappointed in the decision. New Jersey's governor has offered to host all parties involved on Monday for continued discussions. 
 
U.S. President Joe Biden is heading to Northern Ireland this week to celebrate an historic anniversary. His first stop abroad will be Belfast where 25 years ago today British and Irish leaders and most of Northern Ireland's political factions signed the Good Friday Agreement. The power sharing accord ended three decades of deadly sectarian violence involving Protestant Unionists, Catholic Republicans and the British military that was known as "The Troubles." 
 
Our Nic Robertson covered that historic day for us a quarter of a century ago, and now he is back in Belfast for that anniversary and Mr. Biden's visit. Nic, challenges still remain today. I'm thinking in particular of the Anglo-Irish tensions that have resulted from the Brexit wranglings. Obviously, the Stormont power sharing assembly has not been reinstated. It's still not functioning. How do you think that President Biden's trip could potentially help? 
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: I think that's a little bit of disappointment here in Northern Ireland from people, particularly those who would support the president's visit that is not doing more here. There's a real sense that U.S. presidents have played a very big role here in helping bring the peace and shape -- and shape the peace here. 
 
It was President Bill Clinton, who sent over his former Senator George Mitchell to be the chairperson of those peace talks, and it was really Senator Mitchell that managed to get the talks to the positive conclusion they came to. 
 
So, President Biden here who's going to do a ribbon cutting ceremony and give a speech at Ulster University here, and it's expected to focus on education and employment and jobs in the economy. And that is hugely important here because the Good Friday Agreement brought peace, but of course, everyone looked for the peace, dividend, the economic benefits and some of that has come. 
 
But the real -- when you talk to businesspeople here -- and a lot of people on the street -- they want to look forward and they want to look forward to that better economic environment. And the need -- one of the big needs is to have a properly trained and educated workforce. We've been with a couple of businesses this week, both searching for new employees. So, it's a very positive business environment. 
 
So, I think people will look for President Biden on this quite limited visit to play into that narrative. 
 
NOBILO: Nic Robertson live in Belfast. Thank you. 
 
This just into CNN. The Dalai Lama is apologizing after a video emerged showing him kissing a boy sparked outrage on social media. This video from February at an event in India, shows the spiritual leader kissing a boy on the lips and then asking the child to suck my tongue. In a statement, the Dalai Lama's office says the spiritual leader regrets the incident. 
 
For more now let's go to CNN's Vedika Sud who's live from New Delhi. Vedika, can you walk us through what we can see in this video and the conversation between the Dalai Lama and this boy, which is obviously and justifiably sparked so much controversy. 
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: So much controversy clearly, Bianca. Let me take you through what really happened. Now, like you pointed out, this was at an event in India. That's where the Dalai Lama 14th the Dalai Lama isn't permanent exile in north India. Now this boy, you can see him approaching the Dalai Lama. He asks him for a hug and the Dalai Lama calls him on stage. And he says, give me a kiss on the cheek and a hug and the boy obliges. 
 
But then moments later that the Dalai Lama then looks at the boy and says, "Now give me a kiss on the lips," and then he pulls in the boy's chin and kisses him on the mouth. And just moments later the Dalai Lama says, quote, and suck my tongue, unquote. That's what he says to the child. 
 
Now this entire exchange between that minor and the Dalai Lama has led to furor among certain sections on social media that have gone ahead and condemned the actions of the Dalai Lama. 
 
What's interesting here, Bianca, is that this exchange is from February like you and I have just pointed out. But the apology comes today. Weeks later after the criticism the Dalai Lama has faced online from people who have actually been surprised and taken aback by the actions of the spiritual leader. 
 
Let me just read out the apology that has come out in the form of a statement from the Dalai Lama's office. 
 
It says: A video clip has been circulating that shows a recent meeting with a young boy asked -- when a young boy asked his Holiness the Dalai Lama if he could give him a hug. His Holiness wishes to apologize for the boy and his family as well as his many friends across the world for the hurt his words may have caused. His Holiness often teases people he meets in an innocent and playful way, even in public and before cameras. He regrets the incident. 
 
So, clearly, from the statement what one can infer is that this was a way of teasing that young boy of playful conversation. But according to certain people, it may have just gone a bit too far -- Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Vedika Sud live in New Delhi. Thank you. 
 
Just ahead, leaked classified documents show how the U.S. apparently spies on its allies, including Ukraine, and they also reveal sensitive information about the Ukrainian military. We'll have the latest on the fallout for you. 
 
Also ahead, an Iman is stabbed during morning prayers inside a New Jersey Mosque. We'll have the latest on that attack. 
 
Plus, Israeli police boost forces amid tensions in Jerusalem, as thousands of worshippers come to pray. We'll have the latest coming up next. 
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
NOBILO: A shocking attack in a New Jersey Mosque during the holy month of Ramadan and an Iman was stabbed while leading prayers Sunday morning at a mosque in the city of Paterson. The attacker then tried to run away, but worshipers caught him and held him down until the police arrived. The Imam is now in stable condition thankfully. The suspect was not recognized by those in the congregation, and so far, no word on a motive. Turning now to Jerusalem, where a tense calm greeted thousands of
 
 worshippers from different faiths just days after violence erupted. Jewish worshippers gathered at the Western Wall, where the traditional priestly blessing for Passover proceeded peacefully. Israeli police boosted forces ahead of the prayers and other religious events, including Easter mass and Ramadan prayers at the al-Aqsa mosque. 
 
On Sunday night. Some 25,000 Muslims took part in nightly prayers at the mosque. Tensions there remained heightened nearly a week after Israeli forces stormed one of Islam's holiest sites. 
 
Let's go live now to Jerusalem, where CNN's Salma Abdelaziz is standing by. Salma, tell us more what the mood is like, and if any further steps are being taken to prevent more violence. 
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely. It was really all about the old city yesterday went three different faiths, three different religious occasions were occurring simultaneously under a very heavy police presence within the walls of that old city. 
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
As you mentioned, of course, Easter mass taking place at the same time, there was the priestly blessing. These are Passover prayers that were taking place at the Western Wall. And then at the top of the mountain, of course, on that very flashpoint complex, the al-Aqsa mosque there was Muslim worshippers carrying out prayers for Ramadan -- Ramadan rather, and simultaneously small groups of Jewish visitors passing through that complex again under heavy Israeli police guard. You can say it was a tense standoff that did pass peacefully. 
 
But I also want to draw your attention, Bianca, to the occupied West Bank, because there was two funerals held there yesterday, one for a Palestinian man that was shot and killed by the Israeli military on Saturday. The Israeli military says it responded, it fired on that man and other individuals because of an explosive device that was thrown towards them. Again, that funeral was held yesterday. You can see how quickly in those images it turned into something of a protest. 
 
And then separately, there was a funeral also held in the West Bank in a settlement for two sisters who were killed in a shooting. Their mother was seriously wounded in that shooting. Israeli police calling it a terror attack. Very emotional images of their friends and families saying goodbye to them. And I draw your attention to these two funerals because it is often that cycle of death, grief, anger that fuels and feeds this conflict. So yes, for now, a calm but absolutely this is still a time of deep worry and concern. 
 
NOBILO: Salma Abdelaziz live in Jerusalem. Thank you so much. 
 
Still ahead, the U.S. is doing damage control after highly classified intelligence documents were leaked on social media will look at the growing fallout from that last. 
 
Plus, China sends a warning to Taiwan about its growing ties with the U.S. We'll have the latest developments live from Beijing. [04:30:00]