Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Pope Francis Presides Over Easter Mass; For Passover Blessing, Thousands Gathered at Western Wall; Damage Caused by Israeli Attacks Near Village in Lebanon; Thousands Turn Out Once More to Protest Judicial Overhaul; Two Tennessee Lawmakers May Soon Be Heading Right Back to Work; More than 1,200 Drones and Missiles Hit Ukraine's Energy System; After Being Allegedly Deported by Russia, Ukrainian Children Speak Out; Russian Woman Accused of Bombing is Working with Authorities; Burial of Murdered Russian Military Blogger; Chinese Warplanes and Ships are Encircling Taiwan; Federal Judges Issue Conflicting Decisions Regarding Abortion Drug; Florida Governor Threatens to Impose New Taxes and Tolls on Disney; Third Round of Masters Tournament Postponed Due to Rain at Augusta National; King Charles III's Coronation. Aired 4-5a ET

Aired April 09, 2023 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:00:00]
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Hello, and a very warm welcome to "CNN Newsroom". I'm Paula Newton. Coming up.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
It is the most important day in the Christian calendar, and thousands are gathering to celebrate easter mass begins at the Vatican. Meanwhile, religious events across the Middle East marred by ongoing violence, we're live in Jerusalem and Beirut. And why two Tennessee lawmakers expelled from the Statehouse could soon be back at work.
 
ANNOUNCER:  Live from CNN center. This is "CNN Newsroom with Paula Newton".
 
NEWTON:  Up first for us, it's Easter Sunday, the holiest day of the Christian calendar celebrating what the bible says was the resurrection of Jesus. Tens of thousands of the faithful have converged on St. Peter's Square for Easter mass. Currently underway there, you see it there. Pope Francis is presiding over the service. He will then deliver his traditional Urbi or Orbi or -- at -- to the city of the world blessing. The 86-year-old pontiff has been recovering from bronchitis after being hospitalized last week. Now, later in the show, we will head to the Vatican for a live update with our Delia Gallagher.
 
Now, meantime, Jews right around the world are commemorating Passover. These are pictures, you see them there of the scene at the Western Wall for the priestly blessing ceremony. Now, in addition to Passover and Easter, Islam's holy month of Ramadan is being marked in Jerusalem as well with prayers taking place earlier at the al-Aqsa Mosque. But those ceremonies have been marred by a recent surge in violence right across the region.
 
In the latest escalation, Israel has carried out a new wave of attacks in -- on Syrian territory. It has released this video, which appears to show strikes on a Syrian military compound, radar systems and artillery posts. Israel says, it launched the strikes after rockets were fired from Syria toward Israeli controlled territory. And it's just the latest escalation of tensions in the region since Israeli forces stormed the al-Aqsa Mosque multiple times last week. Now, we want to get more about all of this from our correspondents, CNN Salma Abdelaziz is in Jerusalem and Scott McLean joins us from Lebanon.
 
Salma, to you first. Listen, tensions that we've just said still running high, especially given the religious importance of the last few days. From what you've observed, I mean, at this point in time, it seems that every day brings a new escalation.
 
SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, a lot taking place this morning, Paula. You mentioned, of course, the back and forth between Syria and Israel, a tit for tat there. But what's really important to draw away from the claims and counter claims there is that this area of tension, this area of concern is widening if you will. Already Gaza, Southern Lebanon had been -- there were rockets coming from there, a tit for tat from there.
 
Now, Syria as well in that area of concern in all of this, of course, just shows it just demonstrates, Paula, how quickly an event that takes place at that flashpoint com place -- complex, rather known as the Noble Sanctuary, known as Temple Mount. Any event that takes place there, how quickly it spreads because that's where it all began. Of course, this latest splat with those raids by Israeli police that you mentioned on al-Aqsa Mosque earlier this week. And all eyes on that complex yet again this morning.
 
You have three different religious ceremonies, religious events, if you will, taking place within the walls of the old city. All simultaneously under heavy police -- heavy Israeli police presence. You had overnight prayers at al-Aqsa Mosque. Of course, it's Ramadan, so part of the tradition of Ramadan is that worshiper stay late into the night doing prayers in the mosque. That seemed to take place peacefully, but there was some friction that I have to mention. Israeli authorities accused youth of barricading themselves inside the mosque.
 
Jordan, which I have to mention here, is the protectorate, the manager, if you will, of al-Aqsa mosque quickly responded to those accusations. Saying if Israeli police raided that mosque again that that would only escalate violence. Again, the night passed peacefully. But this morning. Palestinian eyewitnesses saying that they were not allowed for dawn prayers at al-Aqsa Mosque, simultaneously non- Muslims, Jewish worshippers were allowed at the complex under heavy police presence, small numbers of them allowed to pass through.
 <br>[04:05:00] And then you have those prayers happening on the Western Wall. I know we have images to show you of that taking place as well. There are thousands of people for that priestly blessing, and then you can't forget, there are Easter mass services as well taking place within the walls of the old city.
 
I know I'm painting a very complicated picture here, but what you need to know, what you need to take away from this is there's a lot happening. Three different faces, many people at that very small, very contentious site, heavy police presence and, of course, these heightened tensions. Concerns that there could be friction, violence. All eyes on that location, Paula.
 
NEWTON:  Yes, and unfortunately, these religious days in the past haven't seen as flash points. We will continue to keep an eye on it. Salam, for us in Jerusalem, thanks so much.
 
We now turn to Lebanon, where Scott McLean has been standing by. Scott, you know, not many people need the reminder that Lebanon is already in crisis, has been for several years. What could it mean for the country if they are again dragged into this wider conflict?
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes. Well, Paula, look, I think the good news at this point is that things are calm, at least for now, and there have been indications from the Israeli side that there will not be more strikes on Lebanon provided that there are no new rocket attacks coming from Lebanese territory. So, at this moment, the challenge is really for the Lebanese army to try to find these rockets, rocket launchers that may be poised for another attack and to also try to keep these Palestinian militant groups in Southern Lebanon at bay.
 
But the reality is, is that that is a very difficult task considering the complexities in this country, especially the southern part with the different factions, the different militant groups and also the simple fact that the Lebanese security forces don't actually have much jurisdiction inside of the Palestinian refugee camps in Southern Lebanon. That the foreign minister believes that some of these rockets are actually being made in even outside of the camp as well in that part of the country.
 
There are plenty of places that you could easily hide weapons, in the hillsides, in orchards. In fact, Lebanese army found a weapon just yesterday in an orchard. It -- we went to that same area before they found that, and while we didn't find weapons, we did find plenty of people who had an ax to grind with Israel.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MCLEAN (voiceover):  About an hour south of Beirut. the Yellow Flags of Israel's sworn enemy, the Lebanese militant and political group Hezbollah, is the first sign that the Jewish state doesn't have many friends here. After the police raid on the al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem, outrage came in the form of almost three dozen rockets fired across the border from Southern Lebanon where Palestinian refugee camps have for decades shelter tens of thousands of displaced people. On Friday, Israel responded, targeting the weapons and the Palestinian militant groups they say launched them.
 
MCLEAN:  This is an irrigation channel running through this banana field. This used to be a bridge over top of it leading to a hotel by the sea. It obviously took a direct hit. Locals say, the force was so intense that it shook their homes. They also insist that this would not have been a good place to store weapons.
 
MCLEAN (voiceover):  The aftermath attracted a crowd of local residents and farmhands, among them Halil Al Rajhi (ph), who makes no apologies for the rockets fired at Israel.
 
This is a response, he says. This, at the very least, is a message that we as the Lebanese people stand for resistance.
 
Do you want peace with Israel? I asked him.
 
Of course not, he says.
 
Just down the road, though, it is a much different story. Abdul Halad Abdul Sattar (ph), a Syrian refugee shows us the shrapnel he's collected from the blast that left a hole in the roof of his farmhouse. His kids were sleeping here at the time.
 
Me, my wife and young kids, he says, I couldn't calm them down. We left Syria to flee the shelling. And now this.
 
He walked us through the orange grove, passed more and more disturbed earth.
 
MCLEAN:  The house that was hit by a shrapnel is about 200 yards away from here. It seems far until you see the size of the crater.
 
MCLEAN (voiceover):  Abdul Sattar (ph) says there were no weapons here. Incredibly, the only living casualties were the orange trees, some ripped apart at the trunk. Hezbollah has not claimed responsibility for any of the rockets fired from Lebanon, neither has any Palestinian armed group. The Lebanese army vowed to stop the attacks and located and dismantled several rocket launchers and rockets hidden amongst the hillsides and terrorist orchards. On Saturday, they found one more, though, no sign a new attack was on the way, at least for now.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
MCLEAN (on camera):  Now, again, Hezbollah has not claimed responsibility for any of the rocket fire from Lebanon. But its leader, Hassan Nasrallah, has also had precious little to say. He gave a speech on Friday where he did not directly address the situation. Though, Paula, at this point, it seems that no news is good news.
 
NEWTON:  Yes, absolutely. Many people were hanging on that speech on Friday. And as you indicated, he did not get involved in this conflict, so far. Scott McLean for us in Beirut, appreciate you and that report. Now, against this backdrop of violence, thousands of Israelis are not backing down on their demand that Benjamin Netanyahu's government drop its controversial judicial reforms. An estimated 145,000 protesters rallied, Saturday, in Tel Aviv, holding a moment of silence for the three people killed in the past day in terror attacks in the city and in the West Bank.
 
But then the anti-reform protests resumed, it was loud marking the 14th week of demonstrations. Legislative action on the proposed reforms is paused for now, but the Passover holidays ends next week and the government's push could soon resume. So, the protesters say, despite the violence, they must keep up their pressure.
 
To the United States now where the two Tennessee lawmakers, whom Republicans ousted from the Statehouse last week, may soon be heading right back to work. And Democrats Justin Jones of Nashville and Justin Pearson of Memphis, who are black, were expelled from office allegedly for breaching de quorum during a gun control protests on the House floor.
 
Now, a third Democrat, who is white, survived the expulsion by one single vote. It was the first-time multiple lawmakers have been kicked out of the House in the same session since 1866. Now, local commissions will choose interim lawmakers until special elections can be held. But in both cities, it appears the commissioners just might choose Jones and Pearson to retake the seats they just vacated. CNN's Isabel Rosales has our details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN U.S. CORRESPONDENT:  The spotlight right now is shining on those two vacant statehouse seats. Local lawmakers in the districts of Jones and Pearson right now, they're working to determine those next steps that Tennessee constitution empowers them to appoint an interim successor. So, we could be looking at a situation here where these ousted lawmakers are put back into their same seats.
 
On Friday, we saw the White House sending support in the way of Vice President Kamala Harris. She flew to Tennessee. She met one on one with the so-called Tennessee three and she also spoke before a crowd. Listen.
 
KAMAL HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT:  It wasn't about the three of these leaders. It was about who they were representing. It's about whose voices they were channeling. Understand that. And is that not what a democracy allows. A democracy says you don't silence the people. You do not stifle the people. You don't turn off their microphones when they are speaking about the importance of life and liberty.
 
ROSALES:  This week, all eyes on Nashville and Memphis, the two biggest cities in the State of Tennessee, an important meeting for the metro council happening over Nashville on Monday, where they are looking to not only nominate but also to appoint representative Justin Jones, former representative, back into his same seat. We're told by a city council member, Jeff Syracuse, that they have the numbers, that they have a super majority in order to push that vote through. And meanwhile, over in Memphis in the Shelby County area, the commissioners' office there, Mickell Lowery, the chairman of the board of commissioners, saying that they will not discuss Pearson's situation until their regularly scheduled meeting happening on Wednesday. Isabel Rosales, CNN, Atlanta.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  In that report, you heard the emotion that the vice president spoke with. And now, Jones and Pearson's supporters say that this is an attack on democracy and worse, the chairman of the Tennessee House Democratic Caucus says, the majority of republicans are, "Drunk on power." And is calling their actions abusive. He spoke with CNN, Saturday. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN RAY CLEMMONS, CHAIRMAN, TENNESSEE HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS:  They tried to silence us at every turn. And here we were having a trial to expel members who had become frustrated that their voice was being silenced. And then they did the exact same thing during the trial to expel them. These are two incredibly bright, strong voices that we need in our House Democratic Caucus.
 
As the chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, I value their voice and everybody across Tennessee certainly does as well. We need them back where they belong in the offices to which they were duly elected. They took my colleagues out for breaking a simple house rule of going to the well (ph) without permission, that's it.
 <br>[04:15:00]
 
When you look at the reasons for expulsion, we've only had three members expelled since the civil war in the Tennessee legislature. Why they really kicked them out, you know, that's up for debate, but I think it's pretty clear, you know, it -- a violation of democracy almost doesn't do what happened just the same.
 
This is a serious, serious threat. But what we have here in Tennessee is one party rule. And they have just become drunk on power, it's an extreme abuse of power. We continue to see it over and over again. And this is just the latest example of their abusive power.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  That was Tennessee House Democratic Caucus Chairman John Ray Clemmons, speaking earlier with CNN.
 
So, an apparent U.S. intelligence documents, some marked top secret have shown up on social media. And now, the Justice Department is joining the Pentagon and investigating how this could have happened. We'll have the latest from Washington.
 
Plus, Ukrainian children hug their parents for the first time after they were taken against their will to Russia. CNN was there when the families were reunited and emotional stories (INAUDIBLE). (COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:20:00]
 
NEWTON:  A trove of what are apparently U.S. intelligence documents recently ended up on social media. And now, that news has triggered investigations by the U.S. Justice Department and the Pentagon. CNN's Kylie Atwood tells us from Washington some of the information is marked top secret and includes information on U.S. relations with Ukraine, Israel, South Korea and others.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  The Department of Justice has now opened an investigation into this apparent trove of classified U.S. documents that have appeared on social media sites in recent weeks. And these documents cover a wide range of topics like U.S. support for Ukraine. South Korean officials concerns about providing ammunition to the United States that could then be given to Ukraine to be used in the Ukraine war. UAE, United Arab Emirates ties to Russia. Information having to do with U.S. allies, such as Israel.
 
Now, we don't know the source of these leaks, and we also can't independently verify that these documents haven't been altered in some way. But they do appear similar to the initial trove of documents having to do with the U.S. support for Ukraine that caught attention earlier in the week. And U.S. officials did confirm that those documents appeared to be authentic.
 
Now, in addition to the Department of Justice opening this investigation, the Pentagon says, they are looking into the matter. And looking at these documents is pretty surreal because they are photos of crumpled up pieces of paper that have classified markings on them. Some holding top secret markings, which is the highest level of classification. Some holding markings of the office at the Pentagon that advises President Biden. So, obviously creating quite a bit of alarm among U.S. officials, particularly at the Pentagon. Kylie Atwood, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Ukrainian troops are fighting to keep a lifeline open to the embattled City of Bakhmut. A CNN team reports near constant artillery fire in the town of Chasiv Yar on a key supply route there. Now, the fighting suggests Ukrainians are working hard to keep Russians away from that road as they try to regain ground in Bakhmut. Meantime, Ukraine says its energy system has been struck by more than 1,200 Russian rockets and drones. The statement didn't say over which period of time, but the energy grid has been repeatedly targeted for months now.
 
Now, we are hearing emotional, personal stories from a group of Ukrainian children who were allegedly deported by Russia. More than 30 of them returned to Ukraine, Friday, after spending months in Russia and occupied Crimea. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh was there when the children were reunited with their families. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR:  Jubilant scenes in Kyiv as a Ukrainian NGO saved Ukraine returned home a number of children who have gone through hellish months in a very circuitous route out of occupied parts of Ukraine held by Russia, back through Russia proper itself in Belarus into Ukraine itself.
 
Some of these children accompanied out on a rescue mission by their own parents. Some of these children guided out by the parents of other children who had the power of attorney from their own families to bring them back to Ukraine proper. We spoke to one mother and son, Iryna and Bogdan, from Kherson, one of the first parts of Ukraine to be occupied by Russia. And she recalled how horrified she'd been, struggling to get through to her 13 year old son, finally reaching a teacher despite their appalling phone connections. Here's what they had to say.
 
BOGDAN, RETURNED HOME AFTER ALLEGED DEPORTATION (through translator): We were driving here for nearly a week, and I met my mother for the first time in six months. We went to the summit camp for two weeks, but we've got stuck there for six months. Why should I cry now? But I cried when I saw my mom from the bus. I'm very happy to be back.
 
IRYNA, MOTHER OF TEEN RETURNED TO UKRAINE (through translator):  There was no phone connection. I was very worried. I didn't know anything, whether he was being abused. What was happening to him? I was calling his teacher asking for at least five minutes just to hear my son's voice, to make sure he was alright. My hands are still shaking.
 
WALSH:  Now, Bogdan there, very cavalier, flippant seems to have sort of washed off him all the fear of those months. But it's still clear that for six months, he was held against his will there. And part of a number of stories we heard of these rescued children, deported, held against their will. Some further inside Russia or in occupied parts of Ukraine, part of this pattern of behavior that's behind the International Criminal Court's indictment against Russian President Vladimir Putin and his envoy for child welfare.
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
Saying this is happening, according to Ukraine, on a scale of possibly tens of thousands of children. But startling scenes of jubilation here as its NGO continues to try and bring to light through small numbers of children rescued and brought back to Ukraine. Quite frankly, the horror of these families forcibly separated by Russia during their invasion. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Kyiv, Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Now, the woman accused of the bombing that killed Russian military blogger, Vladlen Tatarsky, is said to be cooperating with investigators, that's according to Russian state media. Now, Daria Trepova was charged with terrorism offenses in connection with Tatarsky's killing and put under arrest through at least June 2nd. Trepova faces up to 20 years in prison. Now, her husband told an independent Russian media organization that he believes his wife was framed.
 
Meantime, hundreds of people gathered in Moscow cemetery on Saturday for Vladlen Tatarsky's funeral. He was accorded military honors at his service, including a gun salute and a military band. Now, among those who attended the funeral significantly was Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin. Russian Duma members spoke to reporters after the service.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEONID SLUSKY, CHAIRMAN, LDPR PARTY (through translator):  He always said what he thought. His life was bright, was true. It was, it is, and it will be an example for those young people who today live for Russia, where people of different views stand side by side together, including people of the opposition standpoint, staying for the country for its future, for the president.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Now, Moscow has blamed Ukraine for the bombing, an allegation that Kyiv denies.
 
Taiwan's defense ministry says it is closely monitoring a large number of Chinese ships and warplanes now encircling the island in military exercises. China says, the drills are retaliation for last week's meeting between Taiwan's president and U.S. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy. State media says the forces carried out simulated precision attacks against key targets on the island.
 
Taiwan's defense ministry reports at least 58 warplanes and nine ships have been detected in the Taiwan Strait, Sunday. It says, more than half of those aircraft flew into Taiwan's air defense identification zone.
 
OK. It is Easter Sunday and Pope Francis is presiding over Easter mass amid concerns, though, about his health. We head to the Vatican for a live update.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:30:00]
 
NEWTON:  You are watching Easter services there at the Vatican. It looks like a glorious day as tens of thousands of worshippers have gathered in St. Peter's Square. And Pope Francis is presiding over that Easter mass, he'll soon deliver his traditional blessing. For more on all of this, we are joined by CNN's Delia Gallagher, who is live for us at the Vatican.
 
Delia, Happy Easter to you. And, you know, you were there last week when the pope was released from hospital. Many question whether or not he could carry out his full duties here. It's, of course, a taxing week. How is the pope faring?
 
DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, that's right, Paula. I mean, really, if you consider that just last Saturday, he was released from the hospital after a bout of bronchitis. The fact that he's even here in St. Peter's Square is already quite something, you know. He missed the Friday evening Via Crucis at the Coliseum, it's at 9:00 at night. And the Vatican said, look, due to the cold weather, we have been having a real cold spell, the pope was going to sit that out. And under normal occasion, if a pope skips an event, that's a problem.
 
But given all of the events that he's had to do this week, and the fact of the bronchitis and he's 86 years old, it seemed like a wise decision to allow him to rest because he's had so many events. This is the final one of really a long week since Palm Sunday.
 
And I would say, Paula, that he looks fine, you know, as well as you can expect, given all of the things he's been going through. But, of course, he has an ongoing mobility problem and he is 86 years old. So, going forward, it's going to be interesting to see if he's going to have to slow down. How he's going to manage. He's already mostly in a wheelchair. He doesn't do the processions anymore. His voice is certainly stronger than when I spoke to him last Saturday when he got out of the hospital, so that's already a good sign. The bronchitis probably has gone.
 
But when you're not moving at 86 years old, it brings up a whole host of issues, especially for a pope, who has to move around quite a lot. If you consider his international trips, as well as all the things he has to do. These ceremonies are very long, this is two hours, last night was 2.5 hours. So, it's quite a lot of stamina.
 
Now, the pope is up to it because he's got that great interior strength. He just keeps going. He says, you don't need two legs to be a pope, just one head. So, he always has a joke ready about his health. But certainly, we're focusing on his health a lot these days and going forward, Paula.
 
NEWTON:  Yes, absolutely. And going forward, you made clear, right, Delia, that this will pass an idea about how he wants to address the fact that there may come a time where he cannot have the capacity to carry out these duties.
 
GALLAGHER:  He has said it, Paula. He said that he has a resignation letter ready to go in the event that he should become incapacitated, mentally or physically, to the point where he can't keep up. He has said that very openly. The question is, he's the only one that can decide when that time comes.
 
And Francis, so far, in the 10 years of his pontificate has shown to have this great -- something like John Paul II had. He's really in it. He's in his role. And I don't think he's given any indication that he wants to invoke that letter. But as we say, there are physical limitations sometimes, and he will have to be the one who decides whether or not that's going to happen, Paula.
 
NEWTON:  Yes, we'll continue to enjoy the pictures there from what I say is, it seems like a gorgeous day at the Vatican. And, Delia, as you pointed out before and you saw at the hospital, he even took that occasion, really, to make it a moment of service for him even though he was in the hospital recovering. Delia, thanks again, and we will continue to check in with you.
 
Now, two rival rulings in two separate states are fueling even further uncertainty over a woman's right to choose. In Texas a federal judge has ruled that the Food and Drug Administration's approval of an abortion drug should be halted even though that approval was given more than 20 years ago. The U.S. Justice Department reacted immediately announcing it will appeal. U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris said, the ruling threatens to further erode women's choices on healthcare.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARRIS:  So, you see, this report in the abortion medication decision came down today. I haven't read it yet, so I'm going to do an analysis of it. But in the general matter I'll say that there is no question that the president and I are going to stand with the women of America and do everything we can to ensure that women have the ability to make decisions about their health care, their reproductive health care in a manner that is -- what they need, and they decide that not their government.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Now at the same time, a federal judge in Washington State has gone in the opposite direction. Ordering that access must be maintained to the medication in 17 Democratic led states and the District of Columbia. But as CNN's Joan Biskupic explains, the Supreme Court might want to get involved this time.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOAN BISKUPIC, CNN SENIOR SUPREME COURT ANALYST:  The ruling from Texas judge, Matthew Kacsmaryk, invalidating FDA approval of a medication abortion drug could be the most consequential if it survives first at a lower regional court of appeals and then at the Supreme Court. But let me add some context about the Supreme Court for this particular chapter of the abortion wars.
 
Based on what the five justice court majority said last June in the Dobbs opinion, rolling back a woman's constitutional right to end a pregnancy, the challengers might not have the same five votes to completely eliminate medication abortion in all states, including states that right now permit abortion. When they ruled last June, the justices essentially said, we're done. It's up to the individual states now.
 
Samuel Alito, who wrote the majority opinion said it was time to, "Return the issue of abortion to the people's elected representatives." Justice Brett Kavanaugh, who appeared to provide the critical fifth vote, went further. He wrote a separate statement, emphasizing the judges would no longer undertake the, "Difficult, moral and policy questions related to when a woman is allowed to end a pregnancy. To be clear -- " Kavanaugh added, "-- the court's decision today does not outlaw abortion throughout the United States. On the contrary, the court's decision properly leaves the question of abortion for the people and their elected representatives in the democratic process."
 
Well, that would not be the situation if a judge could invalidate longstanding FDA approval for an abortion drug that women rely on in states that permit abortion. I'll also add a note about the nature of the appeal that the Department of Justice will be filing. It will address the regulatory authority of the FDA to use its own expertise to comprehensively evaluate drugs. Any drugs.
 
So, this case could have sweeping ramifications. The Dobbs decision was a legal thunderbolt. If this judge's decision is allowed to stand, it would be another shock in the broader health care and medical realms. Joan Biskupic, CNN Washington.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Meantime, New York's Democratic Governor, Kathy Hochul, says she intends to introduce a bill in the state legislature as early as Monday to try to, "Get ahead of this." Take a listen to what she told CNN, Saturday.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. KATHY HOCHUL (D-NY):  This ruling is simply horrifying. And you just wonder when will this stop? Now, it's the mega judges and the mega legislatures, the extremist, and the Republican Party, they just won't stop. And now, they're coming after all other forms medication provided abortions. These are rights we cherish, have always taken for granted, and this is an insult to all women, and it has to stop.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Now, supporters of abortion rights are furious over the ruling to block the drug. Democratic Senator John Fetterman slammed it as yet another attempt by Republicans to impose a nationwide abortion ban. CNN's Alayna Treene has more now from Washington.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER:  Democrats immediately started railing against the court's decision once it was announced. And some, like Senator Ron Wyden and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez went so far as to say that President Biden should ignore the routing -- the ruling altogether.
 
Now, Republican lawmakers, meanwhile, have been far less outspoken, and some of the leaders have virtually been silent on the issue. Now, that's something that Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer pointed out on a press call Saturday morning. Here's what he had to say.
 
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), SENATE MAJORITY LEADER:  I think the Republicans know that these -- their decisions, the Dobbs decision, the court decision are wildly unpopular with the American people. They're probably, I mean, at least, in some of the survey data unpopular with a large number of Republicans. So, what they -- they're afraid to speak out. But that is outrageous.
 
TREENE:  Now, I will argue Schumer's press call was on a Saturday during the holiday weekend. So, I'm not sure how many Republicans were paying close attention to him. But Schumer's point was valid. This is very tricky territory for Republicans to navigate abortion. And the wake of the Dobbs decision has not been a winning message for them, and we saw that during the 2022 midterm elections.
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
As for what Congress can do, they don't have many options. The bill -- the bills that they want to pass are essentially dead on arrival, and they can. And some have already have begun applying pressure on the Biden administration to appeal the ruling. But legislatively, there isn't much that Congress can do.
 
Schumer did say, however, that Senate Democrats remain committed to passing the women's health protection act, which is a bill aimed at preserving abortion access nationwide. But that legislation failed to pass last year due to the balance of power in Congress and remains unlikely to pass now given that Republicans control the House and Democrats have a narrow majority in the Senate. Alayna Treene, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Florida's governor is threatening to impose new taxes on Disney, as both sides dig in over how much control the state will have over that company. Latest developments just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas says, he did nothing wrong by not disclosing lavish trips paid for by the Republican mega donor, you see him there, Harlan Crow. The trips included globetrotting on Crow's yacht and private jet over some 25 years. The price tag for that travel would run into at least hundreds of thousands of dollars.
 
But Justice Thomas says, he was advised he wasn't required to disclose those trips at the time, even though the rules were recently changed. Now, the controversy was first reported by the nonprofit media outlet ProPublica. And one of the reporters who worked on the story told CNN some ethics lawyers disagree with Justice Thomas. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOSHUA KAPLAN, REPORTER PROPUBLICA:  What Clarence Thomas appears to be referring to there is the ethics in government act. It's a law that was passed after Watergate that by law requires many government officials, including Supreme Court justices, to disclose most gifts they received to the public.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
And so, after Justice Thomas released a statement the day after our story published. we went to seven ethics law experts, including former lawyers, former ethics lawyers for the White House and for Congress, and we asked them about it. We asked them about the law, and all of them said that, you know, Clarence Thomas -- you know, the law clearly required that things like private jet trips be disclosed. And that if Thomas is arguing otherwise, he's incorrect.
 
Now, I do mean to your broader point, you know, I think one thing that's important to note is that there are very, very few restrictions on what gifts justices can accept. They have to disclose most gifts. But there's no world in which it was against ethics law for him to go on a super yacht around the world and fly on a private jet, even if it could have cost half a million dollars. And that's a really stark contrast to the other branches of government.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Now, the ongoing feud between Florida's governor and Disney is becoming more heated. In two consecutive appearances, the governor vowed to hit back after Disney moved to limit the power that a DeSantis backed board would have over the company. Listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL):  Now, that this has been reopened, all options are on the table.
 
We're going to look at things like taxes on the hotels. We're going to look at things like tolls on the roads. We're going to look at things like developing some of the property that the district owns.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  CNN's Steve Contorno has been following this story for us and has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER:  The power struggle in Florida over Disney's special taxing district continued this week with Ron DeSantis escalating the fight. The governor of Florida this week said he would retaliate against Disney after the company pushed through an agreement at the 11th hour that shifted the power of its special taxing district to the company. DeSantis said he has a whole bunch of ideas for how the state might retaliate against Disney and offered these ideas.
 
DESANTIS:  The media, you know, tried to get spun up about Disney trying to do these agreements, you know, very quietly right before we took control. And they're acting like somehow that they pulled one over on the state. They can keep trying to do things but, ultimately, we're going to win on every single issue involving Disney, I can tell you that.
 
CONTORNO:  But DeSantis isn't the only one speaking out this week. On Monday, Disney's CEO, Bob Iger, told shareholders that he will continue to invest in Florida and defended the company's actions in the state. However, he had some choice words for the governor for coming after Disney over its opposition to last year's bill that limited how teachers can talk about sexual orientation and gender identity in the classroom.
 
BOB IGER, CEO, THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY:  And so, our point on this is that any action that thwarts those efforts simply to retaliate for a position the company took sounds not just anti-business, but it sounds anti-Florida.
 
CONTORNO:  In addition to threatening to tax Disney's hotels and put new tolls in place, DeSantis, this week, also launched an investigation into the deal that was brokered between Disney and its special taxing district. The state's attorney general has asked everyone involved to turn over proper records related to the agreement. And we have also seen the board for the special district hire a bunch of lawyers and their attempts to claw back their authority. For CNN in St. Petersburg, I'm Steve Contorno.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Britain and the Commonwealth are gearing up for the coronation of King Charles III next month. Ahead, we'll check out some of that memorabilia already being rolled out of the historic day.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
NEWTON:  Organizers of the Masters Tournament are planning to resume play in about three and a half hours from now at 8:30 eastern time, hoping to complete golf's first major of the year later today. Now, heavy rain, and it was heavy, yesterday, waterlogged the Augusta National Course, forcing a suspension of play midway through the third round. Brooks Koepka has a four stroke lead right now. Now, of course golf is played in the rain, but fellow American, Cameron Young, explains why that kind of a downpour is such a downer.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAMERON YOUNG, U.S. PRO GOLFER:  Driving is difficult because if the driver face gets wet, even just like in your pre-shot routine, it can go in -- which is kind of happened to me twice today, they tend to just squirt right -- even right out of the middle of the face. So, I think, physically, that's really difficult part. Mentally, it's obviously hard just because you're generally not having the most fun out there.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  Now, Tiger Woods, meantime hopes for sixth green jacket have all but vanished. He's in last place right now, but can play the final rounds after making the tournament cut for the 23rd straight time, that ties the record of Fred Couples and Gary Player.
 
Now, preparations are well underway in the United Kingdom for the coronation next month of King Charles III. More than 2,000 invitations were sent out this week for the service at Westminster Abbey. And, you know, what would a coronation be without lots and lots of those special souvenirs? CNN's Michael Holmes has our story. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN INTERNATIONAL NEWS ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  Roll out the bunting and the British flags. The coronation of King Charles III is just under a month away, the first time England will crown a new sovereign in 70 years. The king's likeness already emblazoned on flags, coins, stamps and even beer. A brewery in Windsor commemorating the day with a new ale called Return of the King, a beer made from organic ingredients to honor Charles' passion for the environment, that's also a nod to the changing times.
 
BOB MORRISON, WINDSOR &amp; ETON BREWERY:  For the last 1,000 years from the 1066 onwards, we've probably had about 850 years of kings. But, of course, in my lifetime, in most of the lifetime of the people in this country, we've had a queen.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  And what would the royal event be without a souvenir mug or plate? The city of Stoke-on-Trent in central England is known for the production of fine bone China, pieces printed with God Save the King rolled through workshops, some inspired by designs from the last coronation of a king, Charles grandfather, King George VI in 1937.
 
JASON SIMMS, DUCHESS CHINA:  We are incredibly busy. Obviously, coronation year, something we've never experienced before and something I don't think it even prepare for. We wanted it to be -- to look very British and very, sort of, traditional.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  New bell ringers are being shown the ropes after an appeal was issued for more people to help tole the U.K.'s roughly 38,000 church bills that will sound off during coronation festivities.
 
KATE FLAVELL, ALL SAINTS KINGSTON BELL RINGERS:  Bell ringers will always ring for royal celebrations, whatever they are, in royal weddings. When William and Kate got married, there was an awful lot of ringing done for that. So, you know, we love an excuse to have lots of extra ringing.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  And this is the golden ticket for more than 2,000 guests who will attend the coronation. The invitation features flowers from the U.K. and the image of the green man, which symbolizes spring and rebirth. There's also a standing invitation, says the brewery, with the beer named after King Charles for the monarch to come in and raise a glass.
 
MORRISON:  We would be delighted to welcome the king and the queen consort to come and have a drink here with us. If they can't come here, we'll send the beer to the castle, but they're welcome anytime.
 
HOLMES (voiceover):  Michael Holmes, CNN.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NEWTON:  You never know, he might actually show up to have that pint. I'm Paula Newton. I'll be back in a moment with more "CNN Newsroom". Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[05:00:00]