Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: Trump Cases on Collision Course with GOP Primaries; Niger Junta Revokes Military Pacts with France; Protesters in Niger Voice Support for Coup on Independence Day; Lebanon Marks Third Anniversary with Day of Mourning; Lisbon Give Pope Francis a Rock Star Welcome. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired August 04, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Donald Trump's legal exposure only threatens to get worse in the coming weeks with yet another criminal indictment possible in Georgia. But as the many cases work through the various courts, it's inevitable that some will collide with next year's Republican primaries. CNN's Brian Todd explains what we can expect.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: All these criminal cases involving former President Trump can be dizzying, so we want to update you on the cases and what lies ahead. There are a total of four criminal cases that the former president has been investigated in, three of them where he's been formally charged and pleaded not guilty.
 
The January 6th case that he was just arraigned in on Thursday, where he's charged with four counts including obstructing federal proceedings and conspiracy to defraud the government.
 
Then there's the Mar-a-Lago documents case, where he faces 40 counts related to the allegedly illegal retention of documents at his Florida estate.
 
There is the New York hush money case brought by the Manhattan D.A. where he faces 34 counts of falsifying business records related to hush money payments to Stormy Daniels and to Karen McDougal.
 
Those are the cases where Donald Trump has already been indicted.
 
Then there's the Georgia case where an indictment could come soon. That case focuses on Trump's alleged efforts to overturn the 2020 election results in that state of Georgia.
 
Now let's look at what happens next on the calendar. In just about a week, August 10th, he'll be arraigned on three additional charges brought in the Mar-a-Lago case, although he's not expected to attend that hearing.
 
Also likely in August, could be a decision on an indictment in the Georgia case. Now, as far as when the actual trials in these cases will begin and how they square with the election calendar for next year, well, two of the cases he's been indicted in are scheduled to start in the middle of the primary season.
 
Super Tuesday is on March 5, 2024, and there are several other primaries during that month of March.
 
And the first case to begin -- the first criminal case to begin, the Manhattan D.A.'s hush money trial is scheduled to start about three weeks after Super Tuesday on March 25th.
 
In the Mar-a-Lago documents case, a pre-trial hearing is scheduled for May 14th. The trial itself could begin as early as May 20th. On the election calendar, there are several primaries in the month of May and the Republican Party's nomination deadline is 11 days after the Mar-a- Lago trial is slated to begin, that deadline for the nomination is on May 31st.
 
But that Mar-a-Lago trial, we need to point out, could easily slide until later in the year. As for the case he has just been indicted in, the January 6th case, the start date could be set during the next hearing in that case, which is on August 28th.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
FOSTER: The indictment against Donald Trump says he deceived the public. However a new CNN poll shows most Republicans still believe him. The poll shows 69 percent of Republicans and Republican leaning independents believe Joe Biden's 2020 win was not legitimate -- that is up from earlier this year. Overall 61 percent of Americans say yes, Biden did win square and fair. 38 percent believe he did not. Legitimate or not, Mr. Biden has room for improvement. Our poll shows use approval rating is down to 41 percent. Only Jimmy Carter had a lower approval rating at this point in their presidency. 
 
A U.S. appeals court will let the Biden administration keep a controversial asylum policy in place for the time being. It's called the "Pathways Rule" and it largely restricts migrants who pass through another country for seeking asylum in the U.S. A District Judge blocked the policy last week but put the ruling on hold during appeals. Opponents have been critical of the Biden policy and a similar rule during the Trump administration. 
 
U.S. Department of Homeland Security is calling for an investigation into the recent drowning deaths of two migrants. They happened near a floating barrier in the Rio Grande River along the border with Mexico. The Justice Department is suing the state of Texas to get the buoys removed. Mexican officials say a Honduran woman has identified the body as one of the victims as her 20-year-old son. The second victim's identity is still unknown. 
 
Now it's been more than a week since the kidnapping of an American nurse in Haiti and Thursday there were renewed calls for her safe return. Schoolchildren, parents and teaches demanded the release of kidnapped Alix Dorsainvil. People fear that the kidnapping will cause the school to close. Dorsainvil, who is married to director of a faith based humanitarian aid organization, was kidnapped along with her child in Port-au-Prince in July -- or on July 27. The White House says officials are working on their release. 
 
Just a short while ago, the new military rulers in Niger announced they have dismissed the country's ambassadors to France, the U.S., Nigeria and Togo. The junta said on state TV they have also revoked various military agreements with France because of France's reaction to last week's coup. Meanwhile thousands came out to show their support for the military on Niger's independence day on Thursday. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
Many in the capital shouted anti-French slogans whilst also chanting the name of the general who seized power. They also demonstrated against the growing pressures from other West African countries to return to democracy. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We have called this demonstration so that the population can support the armed forces of Niger who have swept away a regime that has bled this country and sold it to the French. A country whose leaders have become puppets and have joined forces with ECOWAS to attack our country. We are ready. They'll have to step on our corpses first before they can reach the Nigerian army. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: The U.S. military is working with forces in Niger not tied to last week's coup to keep American bases in the country up and running. 
 
The Pentagon says, quote: There are no changes to the U.S. military force posture in Niger during the Department of State-led ordered departure. The Department of State has not requested DoD personnel or equipment as part of the ordered departure. We continue to monitor this fluid and evolving situation and reiterate our focus on a diplomatic solution. 
 
The U.S. State Department on Wednesday ordered the evacuation of non- emergency personnel and their family members in the wake of the military takeover. France, Germany and Spain have also been evacuating their citizens. 
 
U.S. President Biden called for the immediate release of Niger's President Mohamed Bazoum on Thursday. Marking the first time he's commented on the coup since the country's military seized power last week. 
 
President Biden says, quote: The Nigerian people have the right to choose their leaders. They have expressed their will to free and fair elections -- and that must be respected. CNN's Stephanie Busari following all these developments for us in
 
 Lagos, in Nigeria. This is a big question, isn't it, because if you look at the images, there is so much support within the country for the coup leaders, but yes, the election put someone else in power. So how do we read this? 
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR, AFRICA: Max, there is a very strong anti-Western, anti-French sentiment that is running through this whole situation. As one of the people there said, they feel that France -- which is a former colonial power -- Niger became independent from France like other former French colonies in the 60s. But there's a sentiment that France never really left. That the French maintains control of the currency in 14 of these countries -- the CFA. And it's him pegged to the French central bank, to pegged to the euro, and they have to maintain reserves in the French central bank. So there is a sense that France has never really left. 
 
And analysts are telling me that sometimes there's a thinking that things don't really happen without in franc-controlled Africa without the tacet approval of France. So this is the backdrop against what some of -- what is happening is going on. It a bolding, Max. 
 
But when facing the real possibility of military intervention and diplomacy talks have failed, you'll remember that ECOWAS, the regional body of West African countries have given the military junta until (INAUDIBLE) Bazoum. And they have just left a delegate -- a delegate has just left the country without meeting the leader himself. So we're facing a real possibility of some military intervention. 
 
And President Bazoum himself has been writing in the "Washington Post" talking about the consequences of this coup in the region. Let me read you some of what he had to say. 
 
He said: I write this as a hostage. I'm just one of hundreds of citizens who have been arbitrarily and illegally imprisoned. This coup has no justification whatsoever. If it succeeds, it will have devastating consequences for our country, our region and the entire world. 
 
Now Bazoum was seen as a key ally and strong partner with the West. The U.S. of course has military bases there and France also has military bases there against the fight against insurgency. Boko Haram, ISIS and Al Qaeda all operate in that region. So is looking like a very fragile situation indeed -- Max.
 
FOSTER: Indeed, Stephanie in Lagos, thank you for bringing us that. 
 
In Lebanon, the nation pauses today to remember the victims of that enormous explosion that ripped through Beirut exactly three years ago. That story and more just ahead. 
 
And Pope Francis greets the faithful in Portugal during World Youth Day festivities. His trip so far and what's next, after the break.
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
FOSTER: Today marks the third anniversary of the devastating explosion that level parts of Beirut, Lebanon in 2020. A day of mourning has been declared for the more than 200 victims who died and the thousands more who were hurt. The blast originated in a warehouse full of ammonium nitrate that had been improperly stored for many years. It's not known what set off the explosion but a shockwave was one of the biggest nonnuclear explosions ever recorded to date. No official investigation into the cause has not been completed. CNN's Tamara Qiblawi joins us with more on this tragic anniversary. I mean, people will remember the event, but, you know, you're concerned also about the fallout and what speaks to this event and the reaction. 
 
TAMARA QIBLAWI, CNN SENIOR MIDDLE EAST PRODUCER: Yes, absolutely, Max. This is an extremely important anniversary. This is the third anniversary and there is a -- it sits at the heart of everything that is wrong with the country right now. The reason why hundreds, possibly thousands of people will pour into the streets today, it is because they refuse to forget about the corruption that led to the thousands of tons of ammonium nitrate to language at the port. Eventually leading to the explosion of the port and large neighborhoods in Beirut. 
 
And they refuse what has been a really quite stunning operation by the government to undermine justice. To cover an investigation into the port explosion, which is so far sought to prosecute many high-level officials in the government. And so essentially what the Lebanese people today are saying is, they refuse to forget, they refuse to forget this Beirut port explosion. 
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
They refuse to forget the government's role in the port explosion. And they refuse to continue and very importantly they refuse to continue what has been a long trajectory in essentially sweeping the many crimes of corruption and also of political violence over the years under the proverbial rug. They want to turn the page and start a new Lebanon. And that's why the push for justice was so important.
 
FOSTER: And tragedy compounded by corruption but also partly caused by corruption you'd argue. What about the families? I mean, they have been sitting there for years waiting for the outcome of this case. And some sort of justice or even just knowledge of what happened. When are they going to get it? 
 
QIBLAWI: Well, they don't know. I recently heard a very good interview by a mother of the 4-year-old girl who died from the explosion. She said that one of the most insulting questions she's ever got from journalist, is if she had hoped for justice. She said really quite succinctly and very movingly that hope is a privilege. What she has is a right to justice. A right to get answers. And so far, we have none. We are none the wiser today than we were three years ago. 
 
FOSTER: OK, Tamara, thank you so much for joining me with that insight. Pope Francis is visiting Portugal this week for World Youth Day and
 
 the international gathering for Catholic young people. The Lisbon police say half a million people came out for the pontiff's address on Thursday. CNN's Antonia Mortensen is in Lisbon and has our report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANTONIA MORTENSEN, CNN SENIOR PRODUCER: Pope Francis essentially kicked off Youth World Day in front of a huge crowd on Thursday. Organizers say over 350,000 people registered to be here in Lisbon. His message to the young faithful, don't be afraid to stir things up. Take care of the planet and beware of the pitfalls of online addiction. 
 
Catholic youth have traveled here from all over the world for this event. Which is held every three years in a different location and is dubbed as a Catholic Woodstock. And it really does feel like a festival with live music and lots of singing and dancing around us, not only here in the park but in the whole city. 
 
The Pope started his day by meeting and praying privately with 15 Ukrainians who traveled to Portugal here for this event. He then met with students and staff with Lisbon's catholic university and during that speech he urged young people to keep seeking and be ready to take risks in a world which faces enormous challenges. 
 
The five-day trip is taking place in the shadow of clerical abuse scandal here. Earlier this year a report published by an independent commission found that some of the Catholic clergy in Portugal have abused thousands of children over a 70-year period. On Wednesday evening the Pope did meet privately with 13 victims of clerical abuse. The Vatican described it as a time of intense listening. And during an address he said that the Catholic church needs to do better when dealing with victims of clerical abuse. Saying that the church is in need of humble and ongoing purification and must listen to the anguished cry of the victims. 
 
Despite his recent surgery and struggles with mobility, the Pope has an intense schedule with some 11 speeches during his trip and more events than in the past trips this year. Including a trip to the country's popular Shrine of Fatima. The 86-year-old pontiff was in very good form on the papal flight from Rome's Fiumicino airport. And he joked with journalists saying he would come back from this trip rejuvenated.
 
Antonia Mortensen, CNN, Lisbon.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: You see some live pictures there of the Pope there outside the church. He is in his wheelchair there, but he's on good form and in good spirits, as Antonia was saying. And there are big crowds there all coming out to see him. Seems like a really positive joyful event, doesn't it, over there in Lisbon? We'll keep following it for you. Antonia's there covering all the twists and turns. We are hearing from singer Lizzo for the first time since three of her former dancers blasted her in a new lawsuit. Ahead, how Lizzo is answering claims that she and her company created a hostile work environment. 
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Basketball history was made on Thursday night as Diana Taurasi of the Phoenix Mercury became the first WNBA player to score 10,000 points in her career. The moment came in the third quarter as the 41- year-old guard sunk a deep three-pointer against the Atlanta Dream. The crowd erupted in cheers and play was immediately stopped as her teammates gathered near half court to celebrated another milestone in an already highly decorated career. The five-time Olympic gold medalist and three-time WNBA champion finished out the night with 42 points, another personal record. She led her team to victory. 
 
Brittney Griner has missed her third straight game for the Phoenix Mercury. The team says she's taking time out to focus on her mental health. The Mercury lost its previous two games without Griner before Thursday night's win. Griner spent about ten months in Russian custody after arrests on drug smuggling charges. She was released in a prisoner exchange in December. 
 
In the spotlight, singer Lizzo is not staying quiet about a new lawsuit filed this week against her and her production company. Three of her former singers alleged they were subject to a hostile work environment. One said she was harassed by her weight. Another said Lizzo encouraged them to touch nude performers at a club in Amsterdam. 
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
Lizzo called the allegations sensationalized, posting, quote: She knows what it feels like to be body shamed and would absolutely never criticize or terminate an employee because of their weight. Adding I'm hurt, but I will not let the good work I've done in the world to be overshadowed by this. 
 
In a CNN interview, one of the dancers says she was disheartened by Lizzo's response and called it incredibly frustrating. CNN has reached out to a representative for Lizzo and her company Big Girlz, Big Toy Inc. for a comment on the complaint. 
 
Rapper Cardi B is off the hook and won't face battery charges after her concert in Las Vegas last weekend. She was under investigation -- police investigation for throwing a microphone into the crowd. It was apparent retaliation after a concert goer sprayed her with a drink while she was on stage. Cardi B's attorneys say police notified them that she would face no charges based on the department's investigation. CNN has reached out to Las Vegas police for a comment.
 
And before we go, you already know the Barbie movie is conquering the box office. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RYAN GOSLING, ACTOR, KEN BARBIE MOVIE: Why I have feelings that I can't explain. Driving me to say --
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Now the real-life Ken is climbing the music charts. Actor Ryan Gosling is on the hot 100 first timers list with the song "I'm Just Ken." It debuted at number 87. By the way, Warner Bros. Pictures and CNN are both part of Warner Bros. Discovery.
 
That makes Ryan Gosling a colleague with us. 
 
Thanks for joining me here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster in London. EARLY START is next here on CNN.