Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Schumer Advances Miliary Nominees Past Tuberville Blockade; Iran Issues New Threats Against U.S. & Israel Over Gaza War; Clashes Growing Along Israel-Lebanon Border As War Rages In Gaza; Cornell Student Accused Of Anti-Semitic Threats In Court Today; Georgia College Students Walk In Solidarity Against Anti-Semitism. Aired 2:30- 3p ET

Aired November 01, 2023 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:31:04]
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN HOST: Now to a developing story we are watching from Capitol Hill. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer pushing forward with a new plan to get hundreds of military promotions confirmed, thus bypassing Alabama Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville, who has single- handedly stood in the way. 
 
CNN's Sunlen Serfaty is joining us from Capitol Hill. 
 
Sunlen, how is Schumer planning to get around this? 
 
SUNLEN SERFATY, CNN WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT: Jess, this is certainly potentially a huge development in this long-running showdown here in the Senate. 
 
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer today saying he intends to bring a resolution to the Senate floor. That resolution would allow all 300 of these military nominations that have just been sitting there for a while, it would allow them to be brought to the Senate floor and voted on en masse, all at once. 
 
In essence, this move circumvents what Senator Tuberville was trying to do in holding up these nominations. 
 
And this is a change for the majority leader. Schumer saying this morning on the Senate floor that this is essentially a change of heart but something he wants to move forward to do. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): We must, we absolutely must ensure that our military is fully staffed and fully equipped to defend the American people. And it begins by confirming these vital nominations that are currently on hold. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SERFATY: Now, this whole process of military nominations is typically a very easy process. It's very routine. 
 
But Senator Tuberville is holding all this up. And he has been since earlier this year over an unrelated issue, over an issue related to abortion policy, a new abortion policy at the Pentagon that went into effect in February. 
 
That policy expands access to servicemembers and their families wanting to get an abortion. That's something that Tuberville wants overturned. 
 
This is unrelated to the military nominations. But this is where he chose to fight this fight. 
 
Now, none of this, this move by Schumer today, changes that policy and Schumer says he intends to bring it to the floor as soon as it passes out of the Rules Committee -- Jess? 
 
DEAN: Yes. Hundreds of military nominations just in limbo over this blockade. 
 
Sunlen Serfaty, with that update, thanks so much. 
 
As Israel's war with Hamas reaches its fourth week, there are mounting concerns the conflict could expand. Iran just issuing a new threat to the U.S. and Israel if the bombardment continues. We're going to have more on that. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:37:44]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: We are continuing to follow our breaking news from the Middle East. Foreign nationals finally leaving Gaza. 
 
We're now learning that two American physicians have made their way out of the enclave and are now in Egypt. 
 
These are pictures of 71-year-old Dr. Ramona Okumura. Her nephew says the family received a text saying that she had crossed the border early this morning. 
 
Okumura is a pediatric -- orthopedist from Seattle and she was making prosthetics for Gazan children on October 7th. She'd been staying in a U.N. compound. 
 
Also this video of the other physician, Dr. Barbara Zind, who joined CNN for an interview a few weeks ago. She's a pediatrician from Colorado.
 
And the Palestine Children's Relief Fund says both doctors are headed to Cairo. We're going to continue to bring updates on them as they come in. 
 
DEAN: And today, Iran's defense minister issued new threats against the U.S. and Israel saying the two countries will, quote, "suffer a blow if the war in Gaza continues." And of course, Israel isn't just fighting Hamas in Gaza. It's also
 
 facing rocket and missile strikes from Hezbollah in Lebanon and aerial threats from Houthi rebels in Yemen. 
 
The common thread? All of those groups backed by Iran. 
 
CNN's Fred Pleitgen has been tracking Tehran's role in this ongoing conflict. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
(GUNFIRE)
 
FRED PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Iranian-backed Houthi fighters in Yemen with a show of force. 
 
While only hitting U.S. and Israeli flags in this exercise, the Houthi say they've also launched a massive long-distance attack on Israel using ballistic and cruise missiles as well as drones. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED HOUTHI SOLDIER (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
 
PLEITGEN: "The Yemeni armed forces affirm that this operation is the third in support of our oppressed brothers in Palestine," this spokesman says. 
 
Israel confirms the attack, saying its defense forces managed to thwart it using a modern air defense system. 
 
But both the U.S. and Israel have long accused Iran of providing the Houthi with long-range weapons. 
 
We got a rare chance to film some of Iran's drone and missile arsenal at a military fair in Tehran in 2019. 
 
As the Israel-Hamas war continues, the Iranians are now also flexing their own military muscle. A recent large-scale exercise aiming to show Tehran's defense capabilities.
 
(GUNFIRE)
 <br>[14:40:07]
 
PLEITGEN: But one of the commanding generals also making clear the Islamic Republic's goal is to destroy Israel. 
 
"Regarding the message to the Zionist regime," he says, "in fact, we announce the destruction of this regime and God willing we will witness it soon." 
 
Iran's military is not nearly as modern as the U.S.'s or Israel's. Many of its weapons are U.S.-made from before the Islamic Revolution in 1979. Like these Vietnam War-era Cobra attack helicopters. 
 
But Iran influences or controls scores of militias around the entire Middle East, which Tehran says it can mobilize to not only attack Israel but U.S. assets throughout the region. 
 
In an interview with Al Jazeera, Iran's president threatening escalation. 
 
"The events we're seeing in Gaza are all red lines that are being breached by the Zionist entity," he says. "The killing of women and children, the killing of 3,000 children is not something that any human being can reasonably or by conscience accept." 
 
Israel maintains it does not target civilians in its campaign against Hamas in Gaza. 
 
And the U.S. has sent two carrier strike groups and additional surface-to-air missile batteries to the region. 
 
The Biden administration warning Iran to back off. 
 
REAR ADM. JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL SPOKESPERSON: We will take our national security interests very seriously. We will protect and defend our troops. And we'll do it at a time and manner of our choosing. 
 
PLEITGEN: Fred Pleitgen, CNN, Berlin. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANCHEZ: Our thanks to Fred Pleitgen for that report. 
 
Israeli officials are now reporting more and more clashes with Iran- backed Hezbollah. Earlier today, the IDF says it fired into southern Lebanon after anti-tank missiles attempted to target Israeli territory. 
 
CNN anchor, Jim Sciutto, joins us now live from northern Israel with more on this. 
 
Jim, we've seen these kinds of skirmishes taking place along the Lebanese border over the last few weeks. There has to be concern about a potential escalation. 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: No question. I would describe the conflict along the northern border as a slow burn. It's been that way since October 7th. 
 
And as we've traveled this border the last several days, wherever we go, whether it's the northeastern end facing Syria or the northern end facing Lebanon, there are multiple clashes per day. 
 
Typically. that's artillery rounds, rocket fire coming in this direction, artillery and tank fire going back. Airstrikes going back in the opposite direction. 
 
There was another one today not far from where we are on the northern border where Hezbollah fighters attempted to set up to fire into Israel. It seems the IDF detected that and then took those fighters out before they were able to fire in. That sort of slow burn, not a full-scale conflict. 
 
The concern about escalation is coming from the words, as Fred was just talking about there, for instance, from Iranian leaders and Hezbollah leaders talking about what could come next if the war in Gaza continues. 
 
You had the Iranian defense minister say that all options are on the table. And it warned Europe not to incur the wrath of the Muslim world. 
 
The Iranian foreign minister talked about the possibility of a surprise action if Israeli -- the Israeli ground offensive in Gaza continues. 
 
That is the concern. And that's why there's a lot of attention to the speech this Friday from the leader of Hezbollah, Nasrallah, whether he then announces something broader than what we've seen so far. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, all eyes will be on that speech. In part, because obviously the IDF is so focused on the situation in Gaza. 
 
Is there concern that Israel may be thin in its defenses given a potential war on multiple fronts? 
 
SCIUTTO: Listen, it's a good point. There are some 70,000 IDF forces now on the northern border to protect against an escalation. Those are, of course, forces that conceivably could be involved down south. 
 
And then you consider missile defense. Right? Because Israel, it's got the Iron Dome over Tel Aviv and southern Israel to protect against rocket fire from Gaza. 
 
And at times, that rocket fire is so voluminous that it overwhelms the system. 
 
Then you have the Houthi firing missiles, longer-range missiles from Yemen, striking missile defense here. Hezbollah has its own missiles. 
 
If they were all to fire in numbers, that would be too much for the various layers of missile defense here in Israel to shoot down. 
 
They get most of them, even the vast majority of them, but if enough come at it, then some get through. And we saw some of that on and around October 7th. 
 <br>[14:45:02]
 
So there's great concern here about escalation. There will be a lot of attention on that speech from the Hezbollah leader on Friday. 
 
SANCHEZ: Jim Sciutto, we know you will keep an eye on it. Stay safe, my friend. 
 
SCIUTTO: Thanks, buddy. 
 
SANCHEZ: Of course. 
 
Still to come, a Cornell student is in federal court this afternoon, accused of making antisemitic threats against the school's Jewish community. We have details on that. 
 
Also, students on Georgia university campuses are walking in solidarity with Jewish students. We'll take you there live in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:50:01]
 
SANCHEZ: Happening now, that Cornell student accused of making anti- Semitic threats against the school's Jewish community was in court today. 
 
Prosecutors say 21-year-old Patrick Dai made multiple social media posts threatening to kill Jews on campus, including threatening to shoot up Cornell's kosher dining hall. 
 
CNN's Athena Jones is in New York with the latest. 
 
So, Athena, what more do we know about what's happening in court? 
 
ATHENA JONES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Boris. We know that this hearing was set to begin about 20 minutes ago for Patrick Dai, a 21- year-old junior at Cornell from Pittsford, New York, outside of Rochester. 
 
He was set to have the initial appearance where we hope to learn something about his representation, whether he has a lawyer or not. 
 
He is not expected to need to enter a plea at this very first appearance of his, but we should at least learn whether he has received any sort of representation. 
 
In the meantime, we're trying to learn as much as we can about Patrick Dai. His parents gave an interview to the "New York Post" in which they talked about his mental health issues. 
 
His father said, quote, "My son is in severe depression. He cannot control his emotion well due to the depression. No, I don't think he committed the crime." 
 
His parents also told "The Post" -- his father also told "The Post" that his wife, Dai's mother, was very concerned about him, kept sending him messages, trying to reach out to him. 
 
Eventually, she was so worried that he would commit suicide that she drove to his apartment to see what was going on. By then, he had already been arrested. 
 
So clearly, a lot more to learn about this 21-year-old Cornell student who sent these terrible, disgusting threats of violence against his fellow Jewish students, encouraging others to commit violence against them and using handles like "Hamas" and "Hamas Soldier." 
 
A case we will be watching very, very closely, Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: Athena Jones, thanks so much for the update. 
 
Jessica?
 
DEAN: College students across the country say they have experienced a rise in anti-Semitism since the start of the Israel-Hamas war. There is a lot of fear out there. 
 
And that's why students in Georgia are walking alongside their Jewish classmates and community members today in a show of solidarity against anti-Semitism. 
 
CNN's Ryan Young is at Emory University in Atlanta where a walk just wrapped up. 
 
Ryan, I'm told that students just told you that they really appreciate this solidarity. 
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: They absolutely did. When you think about this, it happened across the state of Georgia, you had seven schools participating in this march. 
 
Look, students were talking to us about the fear. You hear about what happened at Cornell University. They are all talking about the chatter on social media.
 
But when you watch this march and see that over 100 people showed up to march alongside and to have a conversation about what they are experiencing on campus, some told us they felt fearful of their religion on campus and they wanted more security.
 
But you understand this solidarity went a very long way. 
 
Listen to some students express themselves about what they've been experiencing over the last due weeks. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Even just last week on our own campus there were people like chanting "From the river to the sea." And seeing that and seeing them trying to take pictures of the Jewish students walking by and trying to make us feel uncomfortable to walk on their own campus was very hard. 
 
My friends are all in schools all around the country and I'm seeing that it's a trend. It's not just here. 
 
And it's really hard and it makes it hard to want to walk around, being openly and proudly Jewish, when you know that someone is going to hate you for it. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I wouldn't know. I deleted it a few weeks ago, just for my own mental whatever. I try to check it every now and then because I feel I'm left out of
 
 the loop on some things. But personally, it's been the right choice for me to be completely off social media. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOUNG: One of the big topics here is how social media is playing a role in all of this and how much hate is being spread out there. 
 
The keyboard warriors are definitely making an impact because obviously people are scared about some of the threats going on online.
 
But to be at school and have someone chant what you heard that young lady say is so troubling. 
 
So many people are trying to figure out how to have an open conversation about how to move this forward.
 
But at the same time, you have students in fear of going to class. There have also been assaults. There's also been the fact there's been posters put up on campus that target Jewish students. 
 
Obviously, the folks here say this will be the first of many sorts of walks moving forward but they want more support from the greater community because obviously this won't stop anytime soon -- Jessica? 
 
DEAN: Yes. As that young woman said, to be afraid to be openly Jewish on your own college campus, it is just something that no one ever thought we would see. 
 
Ryan Young, thanks so much. 
 
And breaking news now, Donald Trump Jr just called to the witness stand. We have an update for you next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Hello. I'm Boris Sanchez with Jessica Dean in Washington, D.C. You're watching CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
And we've learned that Israel Defense Forces are confirming one of their airstrikes hit the largest refugee camp in Gaza for the second day in a row. 
 
Once again, scenes of pain and destruction coming out of the Jabalia camp in northern Gaza. The IDF says terrorists were eliminated by this second strike.
 
It's believed that yesterday's attack on the camp killed or wounded at least 100 civilians, but they maintain that a senior Hamas commander was the target and was eliminated in that attack. 
 <br>[14:59:53]
 
DEAN: But today, there's also, quote, "an important breakthrough." That's what a State Department official said. The first civilians are able to escape Gaza since the war started more than three weeks ago. 
 
CNN has received confirmation two American doctors, Ramona Okumura and Barbara Zind, were among the several hundred allowed to enter Egypt today through the Rafah crossing.