Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: King Rides On Horseback In First Trooping The Colour As Monarch; Excessive Heat Warnings Continue In Texas; Dozens Dead, Abducted In Rebel Attack On Uganda School; Gunman Convicted In Mass Shooting At Pittsburgh Synagogue; DOJ Slams Minneapolis Police Department In Scathing Review; DOJ Report Slams Minneapolis Police Department Over Discrimination And Excessive Use Of Force; Modelo Unseats Bud Light As Top Selling Beer In The U.S.; Rickie Fowler Takes U.S. Open Lead, Ties 36-Hole Record. Aired 6-7a ET

Aired June 17, 2023 - 06:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:00:25]
 
AMARA WALKER, CNN ANCHOR: Good morning, everyone. Welcome to CNN THIS MORNING. It is Saturday, June 17, 2023. I'm Amara Walker.
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Victor Blackwell. Thank you for spending part of your morning with us. We've got a lot going on including some live pictures, Here's what we're starting with for you this morning. 
 
First live look here at London where the military ceremony known as the Trooping of the Colour is happening, and crowds have lined the streets there, You see the you're going to get a glimpse of the royal family and they're going to take in the celebrations there. We'll take your life to Buckingham Palace.
 
WALKER: And there are new details this morning about the tornado that ripped through the Texas panhandle and as efforts are underway to clean up millions of people across the south are facing the threat of more severe storms and extreme heat.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MERRICK GARLAND, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: The patterns and practices we observed made what happened to George Floyd possible.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BLACKWELL: The Justice Department issued a blistering report highlighting what it calls systemic problems at the Minneapolis Police Department leading up to the murder of George Floyd. The problems they found and what's being done now to correct them.
 
WALKER: Plus, there is a new king of beers how Modelo became the country's bestselling brand and why it's costing Bud Light, big money. And happening right now a massive display of pageantry in London for King Charles is first Trooping of the Colour as sovereign. The King is the first monarch in 30 years to join the parade on horseback since his Mother Queen Elizabeth did in 1986. He has been joined by Prince William and Princess and along with 1,500 parading soldiers, 300 horses and 400 musicians. Queen Camilla Kate and her kids are following behind and a carriage.
 
BLACKWELL: The parade is moving from Buckingham Palace down the mall to a Horse Guards Parade and is drawing huge crowds you can see them there in the background there lining the mall.
 
The Trooping the Colour is an annual event to celebrate the monarch's official birthday. Charles actual birthdays in November. The Trooping of the Colour has been in traditions since 1748 when King George II was on the throne. He, like Charles was born in November and since London's weather is less than ideal at that time of the year, actually a lot of times of the year. 
 
King George started a public Summer Celebration. CNN's Anna Stewart is along the parade route near Buckingham Palace. Anna, they have been waiting for hours to see the King and the other working members of the royal family and now they are.
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: It kicked off rather late as well. So I think there was few nerves and anxious looks stupid it was all going to take off. But as you can see the royal family have arrived. Now this was a beautiful procession from Buckingham Palace, led by King Charles who was resplendent in military uniform, I believe wearing the uniform of the Welsh guards, followed by Prince William, his son the Prince of Wales, Princess Ann, Princess Royal, and also Prince Edward who is now the Duke of Edinburgh, all our colonels of some of the regiments of the household division so they're all in their ceremonial uniforms. 
 
And they have now arrived as you can see a Horse Guards Parade. This is where Trooping the Colour will take place. This is a really old ceremony it takes like many hundreds of years. And at the heart of it, it's really about one of the regiments at the household division showing their color, which is their regimental flag so that the troops would know it in battle. 
 
Of course, that seems rather outdated. Now it's really about the ceremony and about the strengthening of the bond between the regiments of the household division and the monarch. And for this monarch, the King Charles, this is his first Trooping the Colour. The first official birthday of the king as you say he does now get to November when his actual birth is isn't a great time of year in the UK for a nice parade and it does tend to rain on Friday here in the UK. It did at the coronation just a few weeks ago. 
 
What you are seeing now is as the king arrived and Horse Guards Parade, we had a royal salute the national anthem was played. And now we're going to see the inspection of the line where the King will inspect his troops. The mass fans troop they parade around and then the color is received. And it is taken sort of around Horse Guards Parade in a very beautiful, very difficult ceremony for all the soldiers.
 <br>[06:05:00]
 
Now as you look at the soldiers well over 1,000 there, consider what they are wearing. They're wearing very thick wool tunics. They're wearing very heavy, very hot Bearskin hats. And it is a pretty warm day here in the UK. So this is quite a feat I think for some of the soldiers. All operational, I have to say not just ceremonial. And the idea is that with the ceremonial events, they really show that excellence here as much as they do in the field when they're on operation. 
 
But right now, the inspecting of the troops quite extraordinary to seeing -- to see King Charles on horseback, the first time we've seen a monarch inspect the troops on horseback since 1986. Queen Elizabeth II did do on horseback for many, many years before she reverted to travel by carriage, which is how we saw Queen Camilla and also the Princess of Wales and the little children, Prince George Princess Charlotte, Prince Louis arrived they've all taken place to watch this beautiful spectacle. 
 
And after this, there will be a procession back to Buckingham Palace. There will be behind me at Buckingham Palace. Of course, that traditional wave from the balcony of Buckingham Palace followed by a flypast, so much pomp, so much ceremony and only five weeks after we have the coronation. Back to you guys.
 
WALKER: And the weather looks good for now, although it seems a bit overcast, but I don't see any rain in the forecast. So let's keep our fingers crossed.
 
BLACKWELL: And still warm.
 
WALKER: Yes.
 
BLACKWELL: I mean, for those soldiers who are wearing all of that wool, as you said, I mean, this is dangerous, but you've seen a few of them pass out.
 
WALKER: Yes. So let's hope they -- they're hydrated and --
 
BLACKWELL: There's those soldiers sword set for anything like this.
 
WALKER: No. You got to keep --
 
BLACKWELL: You got to wear the full uniform.
 
STEWART: Last weekend.
 
WALKER: Yes, 
 
STEWART: Last week for the rehearsal. There were a few that fainted, you know, this does happen. This is a long time on your feet wearing a lot of clothes in British summer which you know what, this is quite hot. WALKER: So maybe there -- it's OK that it's a bit overcast and no sun scorching down on them. We'll be watching this throughout the morning with you. Anna Stewart, thank you very much. 
 
And speaking of the weather here, it's not so good in the states. Severe storms expected this weekend and some -- in some of the same places already devastated by tornadoes over the past few days. And millions in southern Texas are bracing for triple digit heat. 
 
Now cleanup efforts are underway after tornadoes slammed Texas, Florida and Mississippi killing at least five people and leveling buildings in its path.
 
BLACKWELL: The tornado that hit the town of Perryton in Texas on Thursday, it's being rated in EF 3. That's according to the National Weather Service. Texas Governor Greg Abbott has issued a disaster declaration for communities impacted by the storm. CNN's Isabel Rosales takes a look at the destruction and all of the work that's ahead for these communities.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Tornado just went through town.
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Severe weather cut a deadly path across parts of Texas. The small town of Perryton, Texas devastated by a tornado. This new drone video showing the sheer destruction, debris scattered, parts of the town leveled.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Devastated this area. 
 
ROSALES: At least three people died including an 11-year-old boy and up to 100 more were sent to the hospital when the storm hit the Texas panhandle community.
 
JAMIE JAMES, PERRYTON RESIDENT: Tornado formed and it just dropped on us. It came out of nowhere and there was no sirens. No time to get to shelter.
 
ROSALES: Jamie James said she was forced to ride out the storm in her truck near her home.
 
JAMES: And I just laid down in my seat and turned my head towards the back of my seat.
 
ROSALES: Her home is still standing but other buildings destroyed. Another man's that he is just grateful his family is still alive.
 
VICTOR MUNOZ, PERRYTON RESIDENT: I'm just happy. My brothers aren't alive. I mean, I know all the property and everything accessories can be replaced but life can never be replaced.
 
ROSALES: And take a look at these photos posted on the Perryton Fire Department's Facebook page. The Department said it took a direct hit. But the fire trucks and ambulances are so drivable. They're first responders now working with federal emergency teams. As residents tried to salvage their homes and businesses and a local
 
 high school has opened its doors to those looking for help.
 
COLE UNDERWOOD, ATHLETIC DIRECTOR, PERRYTON HIGH SCHOOL: We moved pretty quickly to try to make this a safe haven for people to get through here in town. The shock is still sitting in, the sadness, the anger every emotion that people can be going through they're going through.
 
ROSALES: Isabel Rosales, CNN, Perryton, Texas.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLACKWELL: Feel for those families. Isabel, thank you for the reporting. Meteorologist Britley Ritz is with us now from the CNN Weather Center. And after watching all of that, there is another threat today. Tell us where.
 
BRITLEY RITZ, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, absolutely. Across the plains and back across the deep south and into parts of the southeast once again, over the last two, 463 reports of tornadoes, wind and hail.
 <br>[06:10:04]
 
18 of those tornado reports and we actually had reports of tornadoes back up in Ohio and New Jersey as well. Current conditions at the moment looking at radar across parts of Kansas on up into Nebraska, even northern Oklahoma, dealing with thunderstorms, sub-severe at the moment widen things out. We actually have thunderstorms across parts of the southeast as well into parts of Mississippi and into parts of Alabama and the Florida Panhandle. 
 
This is all going to get enhanced from not only the jet stream but the heat of the day, giving us that threat of severe weather once more today and tomorrow. Areas highlighted in orange, a little more vulnerable southern Kansas back into Central Oklahoma. These are areas that are a little more vulnerable for tornadoes, long lived and strong tornadoes, once again, late tonight and through the overnight hours. 
 
Hail and wind going to be one of our bigger concerns, especially across the Central Plains, Central Texas can get large hail as well and even hail across parts of the Gulf Coast. That threat then extends into Sunday pushing down into parts of Arkansas. 
 
Arkansas, as you know, already had long lived tornadoes months ago. Now have that threat again, parts of Louisiana back down into Mississippi and down into Alabama. Mobile hard hit expected over the next 24 hours. 
 
Take a look at it here future radar showing you these storms starting to fire up around 6:00 in the morning we're already dealing with that, just as where we pointed out and then they start to fire Oklahoma, back into Texas late tonight. We're talking anywhere between 9:00, 10:00 for initiation than really ramping up into the early morning hours. You'll see that here. See the spin with that system as it starts to
 
 push into Arkansas coming into Sunday afternoon and into the evening hours. So we're really focusing in on that threat of severe weather. And if it's not going to deal with tornadoes and wind, we're also dealing with the threat of flooding with additional rainfall. We're talking about six inches plus over the upcoming days.
 
WALKER: All right, Britley Ritz, appreciate that. Thank you. Now we're following a developing story out of Uganda where at least 37 people are dead after armed rebels attacked a school. What we know about that attack and who police believe is responsible. 
 
BLACKWELL: And the man who killed 11 worshippers in the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting was found guilty of all 63 charges Friday. The reaction coming in from those in the community and what is next in this case.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[06:16:32]
 
WALKER: New this morning, an attack on a school in Western Uganda has left at least 37 people dead. Police say the school dormitories were attacked by armed rebels with ties to ISIS Friday night. Six students were also abducted and eight people are critically injured. Officials report many of the victims were killed with machetes and then the school was set on fire. They fear more bodies can be discovered in the coming hours. A manhunt is underway for the suspects in the Democratic Republic of Congo. 
 
A jury has found Robert Bowers guilty of carrying out the deadliest anti-semitic attack in U.S. history.
 
BLACKWELL: 11 people died in the 2018 shooting at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh. At trial now moves to the penalty phase and jurors must decide whether to sentence Bowers to death or to life in prison without the possibility of parole. CNN's Danny Freeman reports.
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Victor, Amara, it took only five hours for the jury to come to this unanimous verdict convicting Robert Bowers of all 63 federal charges that he faced including the capital charges that he faced as well. 
 
We had a team inside the courtroom and they described it as really silent as the judge was reading out these convictions. You could hear a pin drop though Bowers himself was described as being basically emotionless and once those capital charges, those verdicts were read, then you could hear some of the air in the room bled out and some of the family members start to sniffle as they process what had just happened. 
 
I just want to go over what some of the charges were that we're talking about here. 22, like I said, capital offenses on the table, and the primary ones would be obstruction of the free exercise of religious beliefs, resulting in death. Basically, the jury convicted Robert Bowers of killing 11 Jewish worshippers at the Tree of Life synagogue back in 2018, specifically, while they were practicing their Jewish faith.
 
And to that point, I really want to illustrate and give some perspective and context. These people in the Pittsburgh Jewish community specifically in the larger Pittsburgh community have been waiting a long time four and a half years for this day in court. And then through the trial the past three weeks, it's been grueling in terms of the testimony and exhibits that we've had to hear and see. I just want to highlight one piece of testimony from a survivor of the shooting.
 
Carol black, she described hiding in a closet in a basement while the shooting was going around, upstairs and in her basement area. And she described seeing her friend Mel Wax die, she said quote, he immediately went down on the ground on his back and was dying. He didn't say anything. He just made a garbling kind of sound. And then he made a grunt. And then there was silence. His head was just inches away from my feet. 
 
And I bring that quote up just to illustrate the intensity of these past three weeks. And we actually got a chance to hear from some of the members of this Jewish community about how they felt about the verdict that happened on Friday. Take a listen to what one leader from the new light congregation had to say.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's difficult to say the emotions we feel right now. One of relief, obviously, that the jury returned a full verdict of guilty to all 63 counts. But there's also a degree of trepidation because this is just the first third of the trial. And in a sense, it was the least complicated part.
 
FREEMAN: So you can see there are a bit of mixed feelings after this results. Certainly a tremendous amount of relief but also some trepidation because that death penalty phase is looming. The jury is going to be called back on June 26 to start this sentencing phase. Victor, Amara.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[06:20:10]
 
WALKER: Danny Freeman, thank you. Joining me now is civil rights attorney Areva Martin. Good morning to you, Areva. Thank you so much for joining us.
 
AREVA MARTIN, CIVIL RIGHTS ATTORNEY: Good morning, Amara.
 
WALKER: Just wanted to first get your reaction to this verdict conviction on all 63 charges. The jury deliberated for five hours over two days. Is this what you expected considering the prosecution? I mean, they called over 60 witnesses over the past couple of weeks.
 
MARTIN: Yes, Amara. I was not surprised by the guilty on all 63 counts, particularly given, as you just stated, the abundance of evidence that was put on by the prosecution and the lack of a case that was put on by the defendant. We know that the defendant did not call any witnesses, and they barely cross examined, the witnesses put on by the prosecution. 
 
So it would have been almost impossible for this jury to find anything other than guilty based on the testimony. You know, the grueling testimony, as we've heard from the survivors, from some of the law enforcement officers who arrived on the scene from the first responders who were there. So the evidence, there was a mountain of evidence pointing towards a guilty verdict in this case.
 
WALKER: So what do you -- what did you make of the quote unquote, defense then? Right, because you had the defense attorney for Robert Bowers basically admitting that he indeed carried out the massacre, but then said, look, he didn't hate Jews. He only hated immigrants and this nonprofit, Hebrew immigrant Aid Society group, why did the defense even make this distinction?
 
MARTIN: Well, look, this defense lawyer, this Federal Public Defender had a very difficult job to do. Obviously, Robert Bowers tried to negotiate a plea deal with the prosecution that would have avoided the death penalty. He was hoping to get life without parole. But the Justice Department rejected that offer and said, No, we want to move forward with trial because they were convinced that they could get guilty verdicts on the capital offenses and move forward, seeking the death penalty. 
 
So the defense attorney didn't have very many options when it came to presenting a defense. It was clear that he had done it. There were witnesses there that could put him in the room put the gun in his hand, and it would have been impossible for him to claim that he was not guilty of these crimes. 
 
So I think she made the best argument that was available to her. Unfortunately, it was a pretty absurd argument, when you look at the plethora of statements that Bowers had made about his hatred of the Jewish community.
 
WALKER: So how do we expect the second part of this trial to you know, be carried out? So it's the penalty phase, it's going to be the same jury that will decide whether or not he gets life in prison? Or death? Are we going to see, you know, statements from the family? What are we going to -- what are we going to hear and see?
 
MARTIN: Absolutely, Amara. We're moving into the penalty phase, and we're going to hear a lot of mitigation evidence presented by the defense attorney. We know that the defense has claimed that Bowers suffers from schizophrenia and epilepsy. So I suspect we're going to hear a lot about his medical condition and his inability to, you know, well, his -- I would call it his inability to understand and to appreciate reality. The defense attorney is going to say that he had, you know, he has a distorted view of reality, and that his actions were not logical, were not rational. 
 
But we're also going to hear testimony from the survivors. We're going to hear from family members. We're going to hear from those individuals who lost their loved ones, and the impact that the loss of those loved ones have had on their lives. It's going to be very, very emotional and difficult part of this trial. WALKER: And do you expect the same jury then they came back with guilty and all 63 counts listen to this very emotional testimony from these witnesses? Do you expect them to come back with a death penalty?
 
MARTIN: What we know Amara is that all of these jurors had to acknowledge during the Voir Dire process that if the evidence supported a finding for the death penalty, that they would be able to make that determination. We know there's some individuals who say, you know, moral and religious reasons they could never give anyone the death penalty. 
 
These jurors have said if the evidence is there that they could, I think is going to be very, very difficult for Robert Bowers to receive anything other than the death penalty when you hear again, just the testimony of the survivors and the family members and those in this community in Pittsburgh. I think it's inevitable that the death penalty is probably his fate.
 
WALKER: I guess one positive thing is that, you know, the community will be able to hopefully put this behind them soon as opposed to having to relive the horrific moments from five years ago.
 <br>[06:25:08]
 
Areva Martin, appreciate you getting up super early this morning. I know it's early there on the West Coast. Go back to bed. Thank you.
 
MARTIN: Thank you, Amara.
 
BLACKWELL: All right, still to come, a scathing report detailed systemic problems in the Minneapolis Police Department excessive and unlawful use of force racial discrimination violations of the First Amendment. So what happens now?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BLACKWELL: Racial discrimination, excessive and unlawful use of force First Amendment violations. That's just the start of the list of the systemic problems in the Minneapolis Police Department according to a new blistering report.
 
WALKER: The Justice Department report examines the issues that led up to George Floyd's murder three years ago.
 <br>[06:30:00]
 
And Attorney General Merrick Garland says Floyd should be alive today. CNN correspondent Adrienne Broaddus has more on the investigation and the findings. 
 
ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Victor and Amara, a slamming report from the Department of Justice, but many here in the city of Minneapolis say it paints a picture of what they've been saying for decades. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MERRICK GARLAND, ATTORNEY GENERAL, UNITED STATES: We found that the
 
 Minneapolis Police Department routinely uses excessive force. 
 
BROADDUS (voice-over): The Attorney General and the Justice Department unleashing a scathing report Friday on Minneapolis police failures, detailing systemic problems leading up to the murder of George Floyd in 2020. 
 
GARLAND: The Minneapolis Police Department and the city of Minneapolis engaged in a pattern or practice of conduct that violates the First and Fourth Amendments of the United States constitution. 
 
BROADDUS: Three years after Floyd was murdered by a Minneapolis police officer, the DOJ findings reveal multiple examples of racial discrimination, excessive and unlawful use of force, First Amendment violations, and a lack of accountability for officers within the department. Minneapolis police chief Brian O'Hara now pledging major improvements. 
 
BRIAN O'HARA, CHIEF, MINNEAPOLIS POLICE: We will change the narrative around policing in this city. 
 
BROADDUS: But long-time activists say the problems are deeply-rooted and need more than transparency. 
 
NEKIMA LEVY ARMSTRONG, CIVIL RIGHTS ATTORNEY: I'm unsure how far the DOJ will go in terms of pulling the curtain back on the horrific behaviors of Minneapolis police officers. As a matter of fact, the city has put out tens of millions of dollars in paying excessive force settlement agreements over the years, and this was before George Floyd was killed. 
 
BROADDUS: The findings based on hundreds of police body-cam videos and incident reports as well as complaints, outline the use of dangerous techniques and weapons for minor or even, quote, "no offenses", including unjustified deadly force, and that the MPD used force to punish people who made officers angry or criticized the police. 
 
The mayor admitting the DOJ report echoes complaints the city has heard for years, and that there needs to be fundamental change. 
 
MAYOR JACOB FREY, MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA: Our success will be defined by the people of Minneapolis feeling safe. We are not going to stop. 
 
BROADDUS: The report says Minneapolis police, quote, "patrolled neighborhoods differently based on their racial composition and discriminated based on race when searching, handcuffing or using force against people during stops. 
 
GARLAND: MPD stopped black and native American people nearly six times more often than white people. 
 
BROADDUS: Local activists are cautiously optimistic the report will not just inspire, but require police to do better. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Minneapolis is only a microscope of a huge issue. (END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BROADDUS: So now what's next? The city is negotiating a consent decree, and we're told that could take months, even up to a year, before it's finalized and fully rolled out. Victor and Amara? 
 
BLACKWELL: Adrienne Broaddus for us there, thank you so much. Let's go into the details of this report and what happens next with chief Charles Ramsey, CNN law enforcement analyst. Thank you for being with us. I first want to look at what we learned here. 
 
And this comes after the state investigation. So we learned some of this a few months ago, and then what comes next. We learned that -- and this stood out to me, and even the AG, he pointed this out as egregious. One of the details here was that when arrestees would claim that they couldn't breathe, the officers would respond with, you can breathe, you're talking now.
 
I have heard that, chief, as a defense to some of the maneuvers from law enforcement over years. There have been law enforcement analysts on this network who have said, well, if they're talking, they can breathe. Is that -- how does that resonate across the profession to hear the AG call that out? 
 
CHARLES RAMSEY, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: Yes, well, first of all, I'm not one of those analysts that said that, because that is just absolutely not true. A person says they can't breathe, then you have a responsibility to see to it that their airway is clear, and that they don't have difficulty in breathing. 
 
That could be from a knee on a neck, that could be from pressure, positional asphyxia it's called, all those things. And that's been in police training for quite some time. And so, it still persists, though. And I'm not surprised when you're looking at Minneapolis, Derek Chauvin, for an example, had a history of excessive force complaints, and yet, he was field training officer.
 
And so, when you see things like this, it really points to the culture of a particular department. And unfortunately now, all the officers are going to be kind of lumped into one category and nothing could be further from the truth. There are a lot of very good hard-working police officers in Minneapolis, but there is a problem, a deep-seated problem. 
 <br>[06:35:00] 
 
The consent decree will help, but that's not the only solution. It's going to take very strong, transformational leadership at all levels, it's going to take involvement of community, everybody working together to really turn that around. 
 
BLACKWELL: Before we get to the consent decree and what happens next, we had been in this conversation before, whether we're talking about Baltimore, we're talking about Ferguson or another police department after a fatal shooting. Do you know of patterns and practices, investigation, that did not find similar violations to what was detailed here?
 
That is to ask if the DOJ looks for racial discrimination and they look for violations of the First Amendment, and they look for excessive unlawful use of force, they will certainly find it? And if that's so, is that about this department or is it a commentary on policing overall? 
 
RAMSEY: Well, you know, first of all, DOJ doesn't come in unless there are complaints. And so, if there are complaints, and if they look deep enough into it, they will find something. And so, that's not to say that there's anything wrong with DOJ. I welcome DOJ to come in and take a look at both departments that I ran, and they did find problems. 
 
And we were able to work together in order to correct them. But there are 18,000 police departments in the United States. DOJ can't be everywhere. So it's got to go beyond just DOJ looking at a department if you want real transformation in the profession of policing. There are serious systemic issues that still persist. And we have to find a way in order to fix that. 
 
And so, you know, you've got, you know, 50 different police standard and training boards, you've got, you know, again, 18,000 departments, you've got all kinds of issues, complex issues that need to be dealt with. And we haven't even talked about the power of the unions. It's very hard to get rid of a bad police officer. And so, there's a combination of factors that go into really trying to fix policing. And, you know, one agency at a time by DOJ is just not going to be able to do it. 
 
BLACKWELL: There will now be a federal monitor. What is -- what does that look like? Are they watching quarterly stats? Are they part of the retraining process? Tell us what that monitor will do and what it will look like for the department. 
 
RAMSEY: Well, I mean, I'm currently on a monitoring team in Baltimore, I've been on one in Cleveland. This will be a very comprehensive consent decree, no doubt about it. They'll deal with policy, they'll deal with training, they'll deal with use of force, they'll deal with technology. They'll deal with a wide range of issues affecting that department. 
 
What monitors do, is one, they provide technical assistance. They'll bring in subject matter experts in different areas, they'll take a look at what they're doing or make strong recommendations. But that department is going to have to come into full compliance with every single paragraph of that consent decree, and that could very well exceed 500 or 600 paragraphs that they have to come into compliance with. 
 
And what the monitor does is not only do they review where they are now, they make recommendations, then they have to assess to make sure that they've actually put in place changes not just for the moment, but changes that will last for, you know, a long period of time, forever, hopefully. And so, yes, the monitoring team will have a lot to do. BLACKWELL: Are there deadlines for these benchmarks? I mean, how long
 
 will this dissent -- decree last? Eighteen months, two years, could it go on for five or more? 
 
RAMSEY: It will more than likely go on for five or more. It takes that long. It will take a good year or two just to lay the foundation, going through all the training curriculum, going through all the policies. That's a big department. So they're going to have a lot of directives they're going to have to review. A lot of various, a lot of body-worn camera video and reports that have to be reviewed. 
 
Once that's done and the foundation is laid in this process of actually making the changes necessary to come into compliance with a consent decree begin to take place. It is not unusual, five, six years, some go longer than that. A lot of this going to depend on leadership of that department. If you've got a leader in the department that fights to consent decree, it can go on for a very long time, more than a decade. 
 
If you've got one that really is open to the change and not fighting it, then, of course, then the process can go a lot quicker. But again, it's not going to be a very fast process. A minimum of five or six years. 
 
BLACKWELL: All right, Chief Charles Ramsey, thank you so much for the insight. 
 
WALKER: Just ahead, the king of beers dethroned. Bud Light officially unseated as America's top-selling beer for the first time in more than two decades. 
 <br>[06:40:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WALKER: America's top-selling beer is no longer American. Mexican Lager Modelo is now the top-selling beer in the U.S. unseating Bud Light in May. The former title holder for two decades. 
 
BLACKWELL: Yes, this highlights the backlash that the company Anheuser-Busch is having after a trans-influencer posted a photo with a can of Bud Light. CNN's chief business correspondent Christine Romans has more from New York. Christine? 
 
CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN ANCHOR &amp; CORRESPONDENT: Victor, Amara, Mexican lager Modelo now holds the crown as America's top-selling beer. 
 <br>[06:45:00]
 
In the month-ending, June 3rd, Bud Light sales fell 24 percent, Modelo sales grew 12 percent. According to one consulting firm, Modelo's rise to the top was led by strong Cinco de Mayo sales, and strong advertising in recent months. Bud Light's fall from the top comes after transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney's Instagram post showing off a customized Bud Light can. Now, that partnership with Mulvaney back in April sent shockwaves on
 
 social media among conservatives, resulting in negative headlines and some boycotting the brand altogether. In response, Bud Light's parent company, Anheuser-Busch, has told its distributors it will offer financial assistance to help offset two months of plunging sales. 
 
In a letter to CNN, the company says, quote, "we are united and fully committed to moving forward together." Victor, Amara? 
 
BLACKWELL: Modelo?  
 
WALKER: Yes, I wouldn't have thought that.  
 
BLACKWELL: That's a surprise. If you gave me -- 
 
WALKER: Yes -- 
 
BLACKWELL: Like five beers, pick on these, I would of course, say corona -- 
 
WALKER: Me too -- 
 
BLACKWELL: Maybe.
 
WALKER: Same. 
 
BLACKWELL: I would have put maybe Miller in there somewhere. You would have not, no --  
 
WALKER: I would have said Stella.  
 
BLACKWELL: Stella, yes -- 
 
WALKER: You know. 
 
BLACKWELL: No, if I'm drinking beer, it's Alani(ph) and Coucou(ph) -- 
 
WALKER: Yes, same here -- 
 
BLACKWELL: Or Summer Shandy --  
 
WALKER: Or if I do drink beer, I'll mix it with Sprite. Have you done that before?  
 
BLACKWELL: I have never mixed -- 
 
WALKER: It's -- 
 
BLACKWELL: A beer with anything.  
 
WALKER: You should, it's a thing in Europe.  
 
BLACKWELL: Sprite?  
 
WALKER: Yes -- 
 
BLACKWELL: OK -- 
 
WALKER: Do it. 
 
BLACKWELL: All right -- 
 
WALKER: Well, coming up, we'll do that Sprite and beer.  
 
BLACKWELL: Modelo and Sprite.  
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
WALKER: Not Modelo. From selfies to -- no --  
 
BLACKWELL: OK, yes -- 
 
WALKER: No, and not even Corona and Sprite. You can just do -- 
 
BLACKWELL: Well, what do you put with the Sprite? 
 
WALKER: A German beer, a German beer like a nice lager, like a Sapporo and Sprite.  
 
BLACKWELL: Can we get that done before the end of the show? Can someone get us a German beer and a can of Sprite?  
 
WALKER: It's got to be ice cold.  
 
BLACKWELL: No one is moving, OK, all right, I guess it's not happening. All right, go ahead -- sorry.
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
WALKER: I'm sorry. From selfies to foodies to a more serious role in U.S. elections, look back on the evolution of social media in the last decade. Here is a preview of the newest episode of the CNN original series, "THE 2010s".  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The internet became very image conscious. It became very status conscious. And that was a complete inversion of what it had been before. Instagram had a big effect on how we see ourselves. Ordinary people started to talk about things like having a brand, as if they were, you know, corporations. So regular people were trying to become kind of influencers.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Managing my followers, managing my brand placement, my partnerships, all those different things, it's a full-time job. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
WALKER: The CNN original series "THE 2010s" continues with the social media boom premiering tomorrow night at 9:00 on CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[06:50:00] 
 
BLACKWELL: Rickie Fowler continues to make history at the U.S. Open in Los Angeles.  
 
WALKER: Andy Scholes is here. And Andy, he's halfway to winning his first major. Very cool -- 
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Yes, and you know, guys, it'd be pretty cool if he were able -- 
 
WALKER: Yes -- 
 
SCHOLES: To get this done this weekend. Because, you know, years ago, Rickie Fowler, I mean, he was one of the game's brightest young stars, but his game tailed off, Rickie didn't even qualify for the U.S. Open the past two years. But he's showing this week that his game is back after a record-opening round of 62, Rickie, hit a roller-coaster of a day yesterday. 
 
So, he had eight birdies on the day, but he also had six bogeys. He finished at 2 under, making him 10 under for the tournament, holding on to a lead by a stroke. And afterwards, Rickie, well, he reflected on his journey back to contention.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RICKIE FOWLER, PROFESSIONAL GOLFER: I sure hope everyone can relate to struggles, because everyone deals with them. No one -- no one is perfect. I think you'd be lying if you haven't been through a tough time, especially if you play golf. I'm looking forward to the weekend, and it's been a while since I've felt this good in a tournament, let alone a major. So it's going to be a challenge, but I'm definitely looking forward to it.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SCHOLES: Yes, and we've got a pretty packed leader-board heading into round three today in Los Angeles. And with the U.S. Open on the west coast, Rickie Fowler not going to tee off until 6:40 Eastern. You've got to watch him in prime time if you want to tune in. All right, Deion Sanders, one of the most electrifying athletes of all time, but according to doctors, the now coach of Colorado's football team may lose his left foot due to poor circulation. 
 
In an episode of the pre-game show on YouTube, coach Sanders revealed he can't feel the bottom of his foot. He had that two toes amputated in 2021 after developing blood clots after an operation. Now, coach Sanders in the episode said if he needs another procedure, he wants to do it before his first season at Colorado kicks off in the Fall.  
 
All right, finally, what a first day at the College World Series in Omaha. Looked like TCU was on their way to a win, they had a three-run lead going into the ninth inning against Oral Roberts, but then the wheels came off, Blaze brothers putting the Eagles in the lead with a three-run homer. That was his first since May 24th. Oral Roberts, the lowest seed to make it to Omaha since 2012 goes on
 
 to win that one, 6-5. Check out the outfielders after the final out, playing a little ring around the rosy to celebrate, look like a lot of fun there. And we had more drama in the second game, Florida was down 2 to Virginia, entering the bottom of the ninth, Ty Evans and Wyatt Langford hitting solo home runs to tie it. 
 
Look at Langford, he was pumped up when he hit that one. The Gators then loaded the bases, and freshman Luke Heyman came up to the plate and hit a sacrifice fly to center. Florida would win in dramatic fashion 6-5, next step the Gators going to face Oral Roberts on Sunday. But man, what a start there to Omaha, guys. That certainly will look like a lot of fun. He is hoping the rest of the College World Series goes that way.  
 <br>[06:55:00] 
 
BLACKWELL: You know, if you can get a good round, a ring around the rosy at the outfield -- 
 
(LAUGHTER) 
 
You are having a good day -- 
 
SCHOLES: Successful day, yes -- 
 
BLACKWELL: A good day. All right, thank you, Andy -- 
 
SCHOLES: All right --   
 
WALKER: Thanks, Andy. Coming up, it's good news if you wake up early like us and then you eat. 
 
BLACKWELL: Yes -- 
 
WALKER: A new study -- that goes against everything that I've been doing. A new study reveals the earlier you eat, more calories, the better. We'll explain. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
BLACKWELL: A new study finds that eating meals earlier in the day can be better for your health.  
 
WALKER: OK, researchers at NYU say it could improve blood sugar levels, slow pre-diabetes and even cut down on weight gain. They found that just one week of following a diet of eating only in the first six to eight hours of the day can stabilize glucose levels and lower the risk of type 2 diabetes. 
 
Experts say this type of intermittent fasting allows people to be more active, helping to regulate sleep and energy levels. How is that intermittent fasting if you wake up and you immediately eat with the first six hours? That doesn't make sense.