Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: NATO Secy. General Meets With Ukrainian President Zelenskyy In Kyiv; Jonathan Majors Facing New Allegations Of Abuse; Ultrarunner Disqualified After Using Car To Complete Part Of Challenge. Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired April 20, 2023 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. MARCO RUBIO, (R-FL): People are panicking because they got to get to work. They got places to go. And you either can't find gas or you have to wait in line for like two hours down the street where you're probably going to run out of gas while you're waiting. So, yes, people are panicked, then, of course, they're filling up saying don't fill up.
 
Of course, you're going to fill up because you don't want to make -- you don't know on the next time you're going to have to make a two- hour line. They keep saying it's going to get better, but it's not. They got to get this thing fixed. This is crazy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: What do you say to Senator Rubio?
 
DANIELLA LEVINE CAVA, MAYOR OF MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA: So, we know that we have to work together as a community. We have to collaborate. We have to think about our neighbors. And that is how we do things here in Miami-Dade County. And I know we can get this under control.
 
The gas is flowing every day. We're hearing that people are not having the problems they've had before. So we're feeling very positive that the public is responding.
 
BERMAN: And we have heard from people who've seen the tankers driving toward the gas station, sooner or later, this will get fixed. But who do you think is to blame for the fact that this happened at all?
 
CAVA: You know, we live in an area where we are subject to extreme weather, to flooding, to sea level rise, and we are working very hard. We're actually at the forefront of climate change policies here in South Florida. And we all know we have to build infrastructure to deal with these future weather challenges. And so, we are going to be doing a debriefing on all of this and see what more we can do to prevent this sort of situation in the future.
 
BERMAN: Mayor, if I can ask you a question about a different subject? Because in Florida, the state government has now moved in the last 24 hours to extend the ban on teaching about gender identity and sexual orientation. That was limited to third grade, now they're extending that ban on teaching these subjects all the way through high school. What's your reaction to that?
 
CAVA: You know, John, this is really something that we don't think it's needed. We stand with people and who they are and their identities. And I think it's very regretful. I think it's an overreach.
 
BERMAN: Now, back to gas if you will, for a moment, Mayor. When do you think operations will be up and running one hundred percent again?
 
CAVA: Every day is getting better. It's not something where we're going to turn the switch. The trucks are coming in. We've offered our assistance to accompany those trucks if needed to make sure they can get to the gas stations, and we're all on alert to do whatever we can.
 
And we ask again everybody to be patient. We know it is hard. It is challenging. But things are getting better.
 
BERMAN: Best of luck to you, Mayor, thank you so much for being with us this morning.
 
CAVA: Thank you, John.
 
BERMAN: Sara?
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: All right. Ukraine's rightful place is in NATO. Those defiant words from the NATO Secretary General as he went to Kyiv for the first time since Russia invaded. And the "massive error" that an Ultrarunner may disqualify an international runner who had claimed a medal in her 50-mile race.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:27:32]
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: This morning, an investigation is now happening into a deadly crowd surge that killed at least 78 people in Yemen's capital. A warning, this video may be disturbing. It really shows just the chaos that had ensued. People are rushing to receive charity handouts from local merchants during the holy month of Ramadan and it led to tragedy.
 
In South Korea, a member of a popular K-Pop band was found dead in his home last night. Police believe 25-year-old Moon Bin died by suicide. News of his death had fans flocking to social media to pay tribute to the singer.
 
And in Ukraine, a bright flash was seen in the sky over Kyiv. A really bright flash. This happened last night. Officials originally thought it was caused by a NASA space satellite falling to Earth. They've since walked that back and they're now investigating the incident. They have said though, that it was not a missile attack. Sara?
 
SIDNER: Thank you, Kate. A historic meeting in Ukraine today. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg shaking hands with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in their first meeting since Russia's war on Ukraine began.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: (Speaking in a foreign language)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This visit by the Secretary-General is the first since the start of the full-scale war. We treat this as a sign that the alliance is ready to start a new chapter in its relationship with Ukraine and new decisions.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER: It's a big deal. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh is on the ground in central Ukraine with one of the more details on the significance of this meeting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR (voiceover): Potent symbolism, solidarity, and certainly key timing for Jens Stoltenberg to be in Kyiv. His first visit since the beginning of the war. Next to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy saying in a tweet Ukraine's rightful place is in NATO. Now, obviously, it was clear this is going to take time.
 
But this is the complete opposite of what Moscow said that their invasion was about illegal as it was trying to stop Ukraine from joining NATO. And they've seen the opposite, frankly happening with increasing NATO equipment turning up. The Patriot missiles announced by the Ukraine's defense minister in Ukraine yesterday. Leopard tanks said to be coming on their way today.
 
So, startling, I think to see Stoltenberg stand there and deliver this key message. In a matter potentially of hours or days from now, we will see Ukraine's counter-offensive. If it hasn't already begun in some small ways, pick up pace become more open. Certainly, their Deputy Defense Minister there's not going to be a press release for a moment in which they sort of sound a bugle and say it's begun.
 <br>[11:40:05]
 
But all eyes really on quite what it can achieve in terms of the realities on the ground here in these difficult months ahead. A lot of NATO equipment has come to try and increase their chances of success. And so, a lot of expectations for whether it's able potentially to cut off Crimea from the other occupied parts of Ukraine held currently by Russia.
 
But Stoltenberg said he'd been to the outskirts of Kyiv to see Bucha, a scene of Russian atrocities. Key message here, certainly. And Zelenskyy is keen to point out that they believe their integration into NATO is coming soon. And Stoltenberg there, standing shoulder to shoulder essentially with the Ukrainian president to deliver that message of solidarity ahead of this vitally important military move for Ukraine.
 
Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Central Ukraine
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SIDNER: That's our Nick Paton Walsh, so you just heard there from Central Ukraine. John?
 
BERMAN: All right. Thanks so much, Sara. There are new damaging allegations of abuse against actor Jonathan Majors. Why his attorney insists he will be fully exonerated?
 
First, here is Dr. Sanjay Gupta on why the Mediterranean diet can be so healthy. That's in today's "CHASING LIFE."
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey there, I'm Dr. Sanjay Gupta, host of CNN's "CHASING LIFE" podcast. You know, the more we examine the Mediterranean diet, the better it looks. In fact, one new study found that diet might help reduce the risk of getting dementia, including delaying the onset of Alzheimer's disease.
 
Now, the best results occurred here when the diet was followed exactly. But they found that just adding some of the diet healthy staples, such as more olive oil, more fish, for example, eating some more berries, filling your plate with leafy greens and whole grains, any of those things adding to your diet could help you reap the health benefits. More recently, what they have found is that when you eat the diet's recommended amount of fruits and vegetables, it reduced amyloid buildup in the brain. That's a plaque that on the brain can disrupt cell function and has been linked to Alzheimer's.
 
On top of all of that. A separate study found that following the Mediterranean diet could reduce a woman's risk of heart disease and death by nearly a quarter. So, bon apetit.
 
You can hear more about how to optimize your health and chase life wherever you get your podcasts.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:47:41]
 
SIDNER: Welcome back to CNN NEWS CENTRAL. Our top story this hour, the SpaceX Starship explosion. The massive rocket blew up in midair shortly after it launched. Starship was the largest and most powerful rocket ever built. It does mark a new chapter in space exploration.
 
Also, this has just come into us here at CNN The House has voted to pass a GOP-led bill that would ban transgender athletes from women's and girls' sports at federally-funded schools and educational institutions. The bill is not expected to be taken up, however, by the democratically controlled Senate. The White House has already issued a veto threat. All of this comes amid a GOP-led push in states across the country to pass similar bills restricting transgender athletes' participation in sports.
 
And new this morning. BuzzFeed, you remember those listicles, shutting down its news arm. The move was confirmed by the company's chief executive in a memo to staffers. He says they no longer fund Buzzfeed News as a standalone organization. This is part of BuzzFeed's 15 percent reduction in its workforce. John?
 
BERMAN: Thanks, Sara. This morning, actor Jonathan Majors is facing new allegations of abuse. Sources are now telling Variety that additional alleged abuse victims have come forward against the Marvel Star who was arrested and arraigned last month in Manhattan on assault and harassment charges.
 
CNN Entertainment Reporter Chloe Melas is with us now. Chloe, what do we know about these new allegations?
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER (on camera): Listen, Variety came out with this explosive report in which they cite unnamed sources claiming that more women have come forward to the Manhattan District Attorney's office with claims of alleged abuse by Jonathan Majors and that they are cooperating with the DA. Now, when I spoke to the DA last night, they declined to comment. But we did receive a statement from Jonathan Major's attorney. I'm going to read that to you.
 
The attorney says. "Jonathan Majors is innocent and has not abused anyone. We have provided irrefutable evidence to the district attorney that the charges are false. We are confident that he will be fully exonerated."
 
And like you said, this alleged incident took place in March with a woman who has not been named publicly. And you know, they brought forward charges of harassment and abuse against him. And he is obviously fighting this, but we haven't heard from him directly.
 <br>[11:50:04]
 
BERMAN: Now, fans of Marvel movies know that he is now a key player in the Marvel Universe and where it's going. What is Marvel saying about this?
 
MELAS: So, Marvel has not commented, but you are right, he has had a meteoric rise in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. He starred in Creed. There is the whole Qing Dynasty where he is going to have this huge movie that he was going to be at the helm of coming out in 2025.
 
You know, not to mention, you know, this is a guy who studied at Yale. His father in the Air Force, and he's been in all of those military ads that as of right now have been pulled from TV. And not to say that he's not capable of doing the things that he's alleged, right, but this is a big fall from grace.
 
There are reports that even his team that represents him have parted ways and we're trying to confirm that. So, you know, look, through his attorney, he's denying vehemently these allegations. And I was speaking to his attorney today who is standing by the statement and hopefully, we're going to hear more and learn more in the coming hours.
 
BERMAN: All right. Chloe Melas, keep us posted on all of this. Thanks so much for your reporting.
 
MELAS: Thank you.
 
BERMAN: Sara -- oh, Kate.
 
BERMAN: An Ultra marathon runner has been disqualified now from an elite race where she was actually awarded the third place trophy. Here's why. The 50-mile race, at one from Manchester to Liverpool in England and race organizers now say she didn't actually run the whole thing. The marathoner even admits that she had taken a ride in a friend's car for a portion of the competition.
 
CNN's Carolyn Manno joins us now with more on this. Carolyn, a runner is apologizing very much -- very -- apologizing, like it's very forcefully. But what else happened here? There's more of this.
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Well, she says, Kate, that it wasn't malice that it was a miscommunication. This is Scottish Ultra marathoner, Joasia Zakrzewski. And she admits that she made what she calls a massive error and actually accepting a third- place trophy for finishing this Ultra event in Liverpool.
 
It's 50 miles long. It took place in England a couple of weeks ago. She's 47 years old, and she told the BBC that she felt tired. She felt sick around the halfway mark of the race when she decided to jump in a friend's car up to that next checkpoint. And she said that when she got to that next checkpoint, she told the race marshals that she had done that.
 
But they urged her on. They said if you don't finish, you really regret it. So in her mind, according to her, she said she continued to do so but in a non-competitive way. Now, that doesn't necessarily sync with accepting a third-place trophy for not being competitive.
 
The fourth-place runner in that race, a woman named Mel Sykes has since been awarded that trophy on the women's side. She describes this as good news for her but ultimately bad for the sport because, of course, it leaves a stain on the legitimacy of all of this.
 
BERMAN: These long races, these Ultra marathons, how much of this is on the runner and how much is on the race officials itself who kind to tell you where to go and what to do in those things?
 
MANNO: Yes, of course. I mean, John, you're a marathoner. I ran one marathon. I probably will never run one again.
 
I mean, a half marathon is a challenge. 50 Miles is completely insane by most people's standards. And logistically, it's very complicated. And a lot of it does fall on race organizers to make sure that there are no errors like this or no foul play. And I think that's why we're learning about this two weeks later is because the data that was picked up on whatever tracking devices of these athletes were ultimately didn't sync up with the route. And so, once the race marshal and organizers found that out, we're still putting all the pieces together. So I don't want to give you an incorrect timeline or speculate.
 
BERMAN: Yes.
 
MANNO: But I think that that's kind of how it unfolded is they realized that something was amiss, and now she's ultimately been disqualified. And has said that she's very disappointed for the way that it all unfolded and that she feels like it was more a miscommunication than her being, you know, malicious or deceitful.
 
SIDNER: Thank you so much. I have to say I am not judging. She ran, I think it was two and a half miles -- 
 
BERMAN: Yes.
 
SIDNER: -- that The Post and The Times are saying that she was in the car. I mean, 48 miles -- 
 
BOLDUAN: I mean, (INAUDIBLE) someone who runs the race -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BOLDUAN: Finished.
 
SIDNER: Yes, true.
 
BOLDUAN: One initially finished fourth and is now third but didn't get that trophy handed to them initially. Those two-and-a-half miles matter quite a bit.
 
BERMAN: So, here's two-story that the last marathon that I run -- ran, I got a ride too. It was in an -- 
 
BOLDUAN: John, I mean -- 
 
SIDNER: John?
 
BERMAN: It was in an ambulance to the emergency room.
 
SIDNER: That's different, John.
 
BERMAN: But I did -- I did get a ride. Now -- 
 
SIDNER: And if you get a medal, no.
 
BERMAN: No.
 
SIDNER: But you're here with us.
 
(CROSSTALK) BOLDUAN: I'm -- and that's what matters.
 
BERMAN: Indeed, yes. I got (INAUDIBLE) a little bit.
 
SIDNER: That's what matters.
 
BERMAN: This actually -- now, again, this seems to be a different case -- 
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
BERMAN: -- because the intentions here don't seem to be malign.
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
BERMAN: Famously, in Boston in 1980, Rosie Ruiz won the Boston Marathon, set a record time. It turned out, she didn't actually like run most of the race. I think she hopped on the subway -- 
 
BOLDUAN: No, seriously?
 
BERMAN: -- or got a ride or something -- 
 
BOLDUAN: I'd never -- I hear of it.
 <br>[11:55:01]
 
BERMAN: -- got to the finish line. It was later found out and she was later disqualified, and then someone else ran. So, there is a history of people trying to sort of do this not so nicely in races.
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
BOLDUAN: They -- with you know, having other intentions that maybe there's -- what is -- I found -- I was doing a little research, surprising in this one is this woman has a -- is a former world record holder.
 
SIDNER: Wow.
 
BOLDUAN: Like a wildly successful Ultra marathoner already. I mean, I think she finished two one -- did 255 miles in 48 hours. I mean, that's -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
BOLDUAN: You know, we know someone who is an Ultra -- and you -- you're -- you've no -- 
 
SIDNER: We've not done ultra -- 
 
BOLDUAN: Tom Foreman is in Ultra.
 
SIDNER: Oh.
 
BERMAN: He was like marathons every week. BOLDUAN: No.
 
SIDNER: I wonder if he runs towards black holes.
 
BERMAN: Yes.
 
SIDNER: I ask him the next time he comes.
 
BERMAN: Here we go.
 
BOLDUAN: John Berman ran towards blackouts.
 
BERMAN: That's right.
 
SIDNER: Wow.
 
BERMAN: It's true. It's funny but it's true.
 
SIDNER: I'm going to end this here because this could end badly.
 
BERMAN: Yes.
 
SIDNER: We're so glad you're here, John. Thank you for joining us. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. "INSIDE POLITICS" is up next.
 
BOLDUAN: (INAUDIBLE) -- I'm sorry.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)