Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: The Fourth In America. Aired 8-9p ET

Aired July 04, 2023 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[20:00:00]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: And this is the place to be for anyone who enjoys great music and fabulous fireworks.
 
And honestly, who doesn't?
 
Tonight, we're going to see Niagara Falls light up in red, white, and blue. It is going to be amazing and we're also going to head to St. Louis for fireworks that are going to illuminate the iconic Gateway Arch.
 
Get this. We're also going to Alaska. Dana, we've seen or we're going to see more than a dozen firework shows across the nation and more than a dozen big name musical performances.
 
DANA BASH, CNN ANCHOR AND POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: I know the excitement is also building in Nashville where right now, country music star, Brad Paisley is getting ready to take the stage and also on the beach in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, rapper and singer, Flo Rida is performing some of his biggest hits there tonight.
 
SANCHEZ: It is going to be amazing and now, we've got a real treat for folks here in the nation's capital. Welcome home DC's own Grammy- nominated recording artist, Wale. He is performing live right here on Pennsylvania Avenue right behind us.
 
BASH: Right.
 
SANCHEZ: Wale take it away.
 
(WALE "Lotus Flower Bomb" performance.) [20:20:10]
 
BASH: Wale right here in DC. Absolutely incredible. It is great to be here and see and hear that.
 
Up next, a singer and songwriter, a veteran recording artist, here is Alanis Morissette performing in Boston.
 
(ALANIS MORISSETTE "You Learn" performance.)
 
(ALANIS MORISSETTE "Hand in My Pocket" performance.)
 
SANCHEZ: Music icon, Alanis Morissette feeding the crowd in Boston a jagged little pill. That was amazing. Up next, we are heading to Fort Lauderdale to hear rapper, Flo Rida performing on the beach, that is going to be a good time. And of course, we're just getting warmed up before the fireworks start popping here in Washington, DC. The Fourth in America returns in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BASH: Welcome back to the Fourth in America. Look at that sunset in New York City. Absolutely gorgeous.
 
And the crowds are watching the skies waiting for the firework show to start tonight.
 
SANCHEZ: Some iconic views of one of the most beautiful skylines in the world. Right now though, we're headed to Florida for a performance by rapper, Flo Rida. His name inspired by his home state, Mind 2, shout out to the 305 and 954.
 
Let's take you there. He is appearing at Fort Lauderdale's Fourth of July Spectacular Concert on the beach.
 
(FLO RIDA "Good Feeling" performance.)
 <br>[20:25:00]
 
(FLO RIDA "Wild Ones" performance.)
 
(FLO RIDA "Low" performance.)
 <br>[20:30:07]
 
(SINGING)
 <br>[20:31:05]
 
BASH: Flo Rida firing up the crowd right there in his home state, it's hard not to dance.
 
SANCHEZ: It's hard not to get up on stage and dance just like all those people do.
 
BASH: Do you want to get up on stage to dance?
 
SANCHEZ: I would.
 
BASH: OK.
 
SANCHEZ: I'd bring it down up there. Why not? Slow ride up. Why not?
 
BASH: OK, next year, Boris. Next year.
 
We are right here in the nation's capital. We are enjoying the music of Country Superstar, Shania Twain next. That's coming up right here on the Fourth in America. Don't go anywhere.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: Here is another beautiful live view from New York City, the Statue of Liberty, the skyline in the background. We have cameras in position across the country to bring you the best fireworks America has to offer on this 4th of July, and that includes right here in Washington, D.C., where some of the nation's most majestic monuments will soon be lit up in red, white, and blue.
 <br>[20:35:20]
 
BASH: Cannot wait for that. But for now, let's go back to New York City. That's where CNN's Danny Freeman is with this 100 story high view of the big Apple. Danny, what's happening on the ground? If you can see that far down as the sun is going down.
 
DANNY FREEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Dana, we are not paying attention to what is happening on the ground. Everything is happening up here. A 100 stories up. I mean, look at this. The party is going on back here. We got a DJ who is also playing the trumpet. We're going to expect hundreds of people crowding up on where we are right here, edge at Hudson Yard, because this is the best view of New York City for these fireworks that are just coming up in a little less than an hour now.
 
And I do got to say, everyone is getting in on the action. The buildings here on the New York City skyline, they're covered in red, white, and blue. We also had an NYPD helicopter fly by and wave to the entire crowd up here. Again, 1,100 feet up. That's how far I were up.
 
And the fun thing is also, Dana and Boris, that the fireworks, they're also going to be 1,000 feet up in the air. So when I tell you that there is no better view of these fireworks in New York City, I am telling you the truth. And I'm glad that we can share this view with you. But again, I'm going to be here partying. I hope you guys are enjoying the party and the music there. It's nonstop fun.
 
Back to you.
 
BASH: I'm trying to figure out if he's excited. Do you think he's excited?
 
SANCHEZ: He's pumped up. He's about to start dancing with the DJ, apparently playing the trumpet at the same time.
 
BASH: Yes, we want to see that later.
 
SANCHEZ: Incredible, incredible.
 
FREEMAN: I'll bring it to you.
 
SANCHEZ: Right now, though, we've got more great music. Country Pop Superstar Shania Twain is performing not far from here in Maryland. She's on her Queen of Me Tour. Let's watch.
 
SHAINA TWAIN, POP SUPERSTAR: We're here to rock this country.
 
(SINGING) [20:44:13]
 
BASH: We're going to take a quick break and then more Shania Twain. She's going to keep the party going with one of my all-time favorites, "Man! I Feel Like A Woman".
 
SANCHEZ: Classic.
 
BASH: It's almost time for the fireworks. Get ready for the biggest light show in the nation right here in Washington, D.C. and in New York City. Also, you're going to see it all here right on CNN. Don't go anywhere.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:48:00]
 
SANCHEZ: It's getting darker here in Washington, D.C. and you know what that means. The fireworks are soon to start. It is the 4th in America, and we're giving you a front row seat to celebrations across the country and some great music as well.
 
BASH: Speaking of music, Shania Twain is going to share another one of her hits, my favorite right now.
 
TWAIN: Here we go. Let's go. Let's go, girls.
 
(SINGING)
 <br>[20:52:18]
 
SANCHEZ: Shania Twain with all the moves and that incredible voice bringing her star power to the Fourth in America. But it's not really an Independence Day celebration until the fireworks get going.
 
BASH: Can't wait.
 
SANCHEZ: That is about to happen here in D.C. The United States Air Force Band right over our shoulder. They're going to get us in that patriotic mood.
 
First, a quick break. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:56:09]
 
BASH: They are live in Washington, D.C., bringing you a 4th of July celebration unlike any other. The fireworks spectacular here in the nation's capital is about to get underway, and we're covering it from every angle. The cameras across the city, including on top of the Washington monument at the center of the national mall. We're positioned near the U.S. Capitol on the east side of the mall for another great view.
 
And further west on the mall, closer to where the fireworks will be launched. We're even going to see the show from the other side of the Potomac River where we have a perch above -- very high above in Arlington, Virginia. It is all going to happen minutes from now.
 
I'm Dana Bash along with Boris Sanchez. And, Boris, we've already been listening to some pretty incredible music, and now we are front and center for the D.C. fireworks and a performance by the U.S. Air Force band.
 
SANCHEZ: Let's get straight to it and hear from the U.S. Air Force band right now performing the National Anthem.
 
(SINGING)