Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: U.S. Defense Secretary Visits Israel For High-Stakes Talks; Takeaways From U.S. Defense Secretary's Visit To Israel; Medical Facilities Bearing The Brunt Of War In Gaza; More Than 100 Killed As Earthquake Hits Northwest China; Russians Plead For Soldiers To "Come Home". Aired 2-3a ET

Aired December 19, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:00:32]
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, and welcome to our viewers joining us from all around the world and to everyone streaming us on CNN Max. I'm Rosemary Church.
 
Just ahead, the U.S. Defense Secretary presses Israel to do more to protect civilian lives in Gaza, calling it a moral duty and a strategic imperative. 
 
After weeks of waiting, an Icelandic volcano erupts with bursts of smoke and lava, illuminating the night sky. 
 
And the families of some Russian soldiers fighting in Ukraine are speaking out. Their message to Putin, it's time to send them home.
 
ANNOUNCER: Live from Atlanta. This is CNN NEWSROOM with Rosemary Church.
 
CHURCH: Thanks for joining us and we begin this hour in Israel where U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin held high stakes talks with top officials there amid concerns over Israel's military offensive in Gaza. 
 
Austin sat down with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Israel's defense minister on Monday to discuss current operations as the U.S. puts pressure on Israel to transition to a more targeted campaign in Gaza to reduce civilian casualties. 
 
The U.S. defense chief says he discussed pathways toward a future for Gaza after Hamas and the protection of civilians in Gaza during his meetings.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEN. LLOYD AUSTIN, DEFENSE SECRETARY: Make no mistake, Hamas should never again be able to project terror from Gaza into the sovereign state of Israel.
 
And we will continue to work together for a safer, more secure future for Israel. And a brighter future for the Palestinian. 
 
We will continue to stand up for Israel's bedrock right to defend itself.
 
And we will also continue to urge the protection of civilians during conflict and to increase the flow of humanitarian aid into Gaza.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: The meetings come as the humanitarian crisis grows more dire in Gaza and the casualties mount. The Hamas controlled health ministry says the death toll has now topped 19,000. The ministry does not distinguish between combatants and civilians but says 70 percent of the dead are women and children.
 
Well, meantime, the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs says nearly 300 displaced people sheltering in UNRWA facilities in Gaza have been killed and more than 1,000 others have been injured since the October 7th Hamas attack on Israel. 
 
Hamas's military wing has released a video showing three Israeli hostages in Gaza, the captives are elderly men who were kidnapped from the Nir Oz Kibbutz. In the video, one of them is seen pleading for their release. He describes their suffering in Gaza and their fear of airstrikes. CNN is not showing the video because the men were likely speaking under duress. 
 
The Israel Defense Forces says the footage is a, "criminal terror video". Addressing the three captives, an Israeli military spokesman says the IDF is doing everything they can to return them safely. The families of the men seen on the video say it's imperative to act fast, because it's clear their loved ones are not in good shape. 
 
And CNN's Melissa Bell is following developments for us. She joins us live from Paris. Good morning to you, Melissa. So, what all did the U.S. Defense Secretary accomplish on his trip to Israel?
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, this is all part of the American administration's push to encourage themselves under pressure, to encourage the Israelis in their efforts in Gaza to do much more, to spare the civilians. And in fact, to move fairly quickly to what we expect will be the second phase of this war, not the sort of mass targeting of Gaza as you've seen so far with those huge civilian costs, Rosemary.
 
But it changed towards what's being described as a second phase much more targeted strikes based on intelligence and aimed at Hamas and therefore, sparing civilians more. 
 
We'd heard from officials over the course of the last few days, that that could happen as early as January. This is the second high level visit just in a few days, we saw Jake Sullivan make the trip to Israel, this the defense minister secretary coming in to talk about not just that situation in Gaza, and how civilians can be better spirit and how quickly that shift to a new phase can come but also how the West Bank can be better stabilized. [02:05:19]
 
So, the American administration coming in to continue supporting Israel, Rosemary, but very much with a view to trying to shift what's happening on the ground, it isn't just the death toll that continues to mount. But of course those conditions that you mentioned, the humanitarian ones on the ground in the Rafah government, it is now 12,000 people per square meter that are packed into that particular part of Gaza, which is, of course, a part of Gaza that is also facing huge humanitarian difficulties in meeting the needs of those very many people piled in to such a short space, such a small space, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: And Melissa, what has been the reaction to that new hostage video of three of the oldest men being held by Hamas and what's the latest on efforts to get all the captives released?
 
BELL: Well, we've been hearing in those meetings between Lloyd Austin and his counterpart, the Israeli position that on the humanitarian question, their priority is getting the remaining 129 hostages out and of course this video particularly chilling, given the ages of the men involved 79, 80, 84. The caption under the video greeting, do not discard us in our old age. 
 
So, a particularly cynical message being sent there by Hamas through the voices of these three elderly kibbutz dwellers that were kidnapped on the seventh of October. Have a listen to what the IDF spokesman had to say in reaction to the release of the video.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REAR ADM. DANIEL HAGARI, ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES SPOKESPERSON (through translator): Our heart is with all hostages and their families all the time. 
 
Chaim, Yoram and Amiram, I hope you hear me tonight. Know that we were doing everything. Everything in order to bring you back safely. Some of your family members are already home. We will not rest until you two are returned.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BELL: It also comes of course, Rosemary, just days after that mistaken killing by the IDF of three hostages in northern Gaza, also a very sensitive time because even as I speak the head of the CIA Bill Burns is meeting with in Poland with the head of Mossad but also the Qatari Prime Minister who has been so -- such a key figure and trying to secure the release of the hostages and get everyone around the table once again that the resumption of talks with a view to a renewed truce might take place. 
 
Those talks happening in Poland between the three men just a few days after the Qatari Prime Minister and head of Mossad met also in Europe, with a view to seeing what room there might be for the assumption. These talks, very difficult to see though for the time being when and how that might happen, Rosemary, given Hamas's insistence that there will be no resumption of talks without a total ceasefire. CHURCH: Melissa Bell joining us live from Paris, many thanks.
 
Well, new details are emerging about the latest attacks on commercial ships in the Red Sea by Houthi rebels in Yemen, who were funded and trained by Iran. 
 
According to U.S. central command, the chemical oil tanker, the Swan Atlantic was attacked with a one way drone and anti-ship ballistic missile on Monday. A U.S. warship responded to its distress call. And now we are hearing a second commercial ship, the Clara, was fired on about the same time. There were no injuries reported in either incident. 
 
Houthi forces claimed responsibility for both attacks and said both vessels were linked to Israel. The Houthis have been targeting commercial ships in the Red Sea for weeks, claiming the attacks as revenge against Israel. And that's led the U.S. to announce Operation Prosperity Guardian, a new multinational initiative aimed at securing this key waterway.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
AUSTIN: Regarding the Houthis, these attacks are reckless, dangerous, and they violate international law. 
 
And so, we're taking action to build an international coalition to address this threat. And I would remind you that this is not just a U.S. issue. This is -- this is an international problem and it deserves an international response.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: BP is the latest major company to hit pause on its Red Sea operations. Others include shipping giants Maersk and Evergreen. 
 
Well, we now go to Daniel Levy in London. He is president of the U.S./Middle East Project. Appreciate you joining us.
 <br>[02:10:03]
 
I cannot hear you, I'm not sure whether that's just me or whether others can't hear you. 
 
DANIEL LEVY, PRESIDENT, U.S./MIDDLE EAST PROJECT: Can you hear me now? 
 
CHURCH: That's much better. Thank you so much, sir. 
 
So, U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin visited Israel to nudge officials to the next phase of this war in an effort to reduce civilian casualties and target Hamas militants and its leadership, but made it clear U.S. support for Israel's war has not wavered, even after President Biden accused Israel just days ago, of the indiscriminate bombing of Gaza. 
 
So, what did this trip actually achieve? LEVY: Well, I fear that it achieved precisely what previous trips have achieved, whether that's National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, just a few days ago, also the president himself, we've had this almost train of senior American officials passing through. 
 
And the answer to what those trips have achieved is precious little indeed, when it comes to the trajectory of this war, when it comes to the way in which so many innocent Palestinian civilians in Gaza have been the casualties of this war, more than 7,500 children killed. 
 
And I think that's precisely for the reason you pointed out, which is this gap between what the Americans are saying, as in, they'd like to see a change in how Israel conducts the war, but the willingness to continue to support Israel, its war aims which are achievable, continue to arm the Israeli side, to continue to provide diplomatic cover vetoes at the U.N., continue to provide messaging which backs the Israelis up. 
 
And I think the problem for the U.S., and the problem for Israel also, is the way that Israel is conducting this war is guaranteeing that the ranks of militant armed resistance will not only be replenished, but they will be increased, the anger is being increased, because people are seeing the scenes of absolute devastation. 
 
And as Austin has said, the Secretary of Defense has said in the past, that's not how you actually win a war. That's how you lose. 
 
CHURCH: And Secretary Austin says that he discussed the future of Gaza with top Israeli officials, and the need to take urgent action to stabilize the West Bank saying, and I'm quoting now, attacks by extremist settlers against Palestinians in the West Bank must stop and those committing the violence must be held accountable, end of his words there. 
 
So, how will the Israeli government likely respond to this U.S. request? And what are the consequences if Israel does nothing?
 
LEVY: Well, therein lies the really big question, doesn't it? Because it's the absence of consequences, which I think makes this so easy on the Israeli side to dismiss. Has the U.S. administration put on the table, that there will be costs. 
 
And let's first address that part about the secular extremists. What the -- what the administration has done is say, there will be a travel ban on individual settlers. And I have to say, that's pretty small beer. Do you think these settlers care whether they visit the United States of America or not? 
 
What they want to do is be right back at home on the hilltops of the occupied West Bank, terrorizing the local Palestinian community, they're much better doing that right back at home. 
 
So, what you have to understand is the consequence has to be to the State of Israel, there is no such thing as a separate settler existence. The settlers are armed, they are funded, they are protected, they are in the heart of an ideologically aligned with this government. 
 
So, unless there are consequences to Israel, in terms of the weaponry, in terms of the U.S. support, in terms of its Israel's access to all kinds of things that America wants, if you don't address that, you don't shift the dial. 
 
And when it comes to Gaza, each humanitarian catastrophe is of such an order of magnitude. It is so horrendous the conditions Israel has created that this war cannot go on one more day, the tiny sliver of a possible silver lining, because this is where there is some domestic pressure inside Israel is to secure the release of those Israelis being held in Gaza. There you have in Qatar, the CIA director, Bill Burns, meeting with the head of the Mossad. The Qatar is one has to hope that delivers and America puts pressure there.
 
Because otherwise, this continues to get worse and Israel is not doing well in this war. It needs to dial this down to finish this and Palestinians and Israelis need to return to a degree of security and the killing of Palestinians needs to end. 
 <br>[02:15:01] CHURCH: Daniel Levy, thank you so much for joining us and for sharing your perspective on this. Appreciate it.
 
LEVY: Thank you.
 
CHURCH: A British lawmaker whose family members are sheltering inside of Gaza Catholic Church says the situation there is beyond desperate. British MP Layla Moran spoke to CNN Monday. She believes some 300 people are inside the church right now terrified and running out of food.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAYLA MORAN, BRITISH LIBERAL DEMOCRAT MP: They are quite literally down to their last can of corn. It is -- I've run out of words. It's beyond desperate. 
 
So, they've been told by the IDF that they need to evacuate. It's unclear why. These are Christians seeking sanctuary in a church the week before Christmas, having been there for more than 60 days. My family, extended family these are my mother's cousins. They were bombed in the first week after the October 7th atrocities. And they've been in that church ever since.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Over the weekend, church officials accused an Israeli military sniper of shooting and killing two women inside the building. The IDF released a statement saying the church had not officially reported fatalities there.
 
For civilians in Gaza, the ongoing war has only deepened a humanitarian crisis there and the fighting is taking a toll on hospitals. 
 
CNN's Isa Soares has details but first, a warning, some of the images in her report are disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ISA SOARES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Sheer terror inside southern Gaza's Nasser Hospital. An artillery strike has just hit somewhere in the building.
 
With the power cut, people inside rushed with flashlights and mobile phones to try and find where and who had been struck.
 
Here, they find her. Wrapped in a blanket is the body of 13-year-old Dina Abu Mosem (ph). She had been recovering from an amputation at the hospital following a previous strike in Khan Younis, according to the Hamas-controlled Ministry of Health in Gaza.
 
Weapon remnants found by her bed were consistent with an Israeli illumination shell, a weapons expert told CNN.
 
CNN reached out to the IDF but is yet to receive a response.
 
In the destroyed grounds of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Northern Gaza, another heartbreaking goodbye. This hospital had been under siege for days by Israeli troops who claimed it was operating as a command and control center for Hamas.
 
They withdrew from Kamal Adwan on Saturday, saying in a statement, quote, their activity in the area was completed and released video of a small amount of weapons they apparently found there.
 
According to the U.N.'s Office for Humanitarian affairs, quote, an Israeli military bulldozer flattened the tents of a number of internally displaced persons outside the hospital, killing and wounding an unconfirmed number of people.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have been displaced. And today they demolished the building, killing doctors, leaving nothing behind. They haven't even spared the doctors. Look, my son is here under the rubble and I can't reach him.
 
SOARES: The IDF has not yet commented on this allegation.
 
Over the weekend, the WHO chief said that, quote, attacks on hospitals, health personnel and patients must end as medical facilities and those inside continue to bear the brunt of this war.
 
Isa Soares, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
CHURCH: Now, to southwest Iceland, where a spectacular volcano is erupting after weeks of earthquakes. A crack of about 3.5 kilometers has opened up along the Earth's surface releasing fountains of lava into the air. The nearest town is the fishing port of Grindavik where 4,000 residents were evacuated last month. 
 
So far, there are no reports of any injuries and the government says the eruption does not pose a threat to life. 
 
Iceland's capital, Reykjavik is about 40 kilometers away. The international airport there remains open and the government says there are no flight disruptions. 
 
We want to turn now to China where rescuers are racing to find survivors after a powerful earthquake hit the northwestern part of the country. 
 
According to state media, more than 100 people have been killed and nearly 600 injured. The U.S. Geological Survey says the 5.9 magnitude quake struck Gansu Province just before midnight, Tuesday local time in a region where earthquakes are common and the temperature is below freezing right now. 
 <br>[02:20:14]
 
For more we want to go to CNN Steven Jiang. He joins us live from Beijing. 
 
So, Steven, what is the latest on this deadly earthquake in northwest China?
 
STEVEN JIANG, CNN BEIJING BUREAU CHIEF: Yes, Rosemary, this is on course to become China's deadliest earthquake in nearly a decade. As you can imagine the casualty figures in the past few hours have been steadily climbing and are expected to do so as emergency workers find -- you know, have a fuller picture when they reach some of the more remote parts of the quake zone. 
 
Now, that is the first challenge they face right now, the remoteness of the location. Because on paper the epicenter is only some 100 kilometers away from Gansu's provincial capital city Lanzhou, where residents by the way also felt strong tremors overnight, but the area itself is mostly mountainous, very rural and sparsely populated. 
 
So, that is obviously hampering the speed of the rescue efforts, especially as the media reported that some of the village roads have been cut off from the outside by mudslides and to some of the infrastructure has also been damaged. 
 
But the second challenge faced by the rescuers is the weather condition as you alluded to. Much of northern China, including that part of country has been experiencing a cold snap in the past few days, the overnight temperature in the quake zone reaching -15, -16 degrees Celsius, that's only five degrees Fahrenheit. So, that kind of bitter cold weather really slowing down the rescuers as well. 
 
And also, it's going to shorten the so called golden window of 72 hours for survivors to be pulled out alive by rescuers. So, even for those who managed to escape the initial quake, they are -- they're obviously impacted by this kind of weather condition as well as they now seek shelter and also dealing with numerous aftershocks. 
 
Already we've seen some local authorities able to set up tents in villages and towns and starting to hand out food and other supplies. And the Chinese military has also joined the rescue efforts sending in large transport aircraft carrying 14 tons of supplies, including vehicles and other goods as well as personnel to Lanzhou, the provincial capital. 
 
And that, of course is in addition to the more than 1600 firefighters already on the scene with more reinforcements expected.
 
And the central government here in Beijing, also releasing some $30 million worth of emergency release funds. 
 
So, because of the weather condition, and because of the remoteness of this quake zone, time is really of the essence here, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH: All right. Thanks to Steven Jiang bringing us the latest on that from Beijing. 
 
Moscow's invasion of Ukraine is taking its toll on Russian families and some are making a rare plea to Vladimir Putin. That's next on CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:25:07]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. The White House is warning that aid for Ukraine will run out at the end of this month unless Congress approves more funding. 
 
Senators have been negotiating for weeks on an aid package that also includes U.S. immigration reform, but reaching a deal before the New Year seems unlikely. Since many Republicans want more time to discuss the package. 
 
The Defense Department wrote a letter to lawmakers saying additional aid for Ukraine would be in America's best interest and that the assistance is vital for Ukraine to continue its fight for freedom.
 
Well, some Russians are bravely speaking out against Vladimir Putin's war of choice, begging him to let their husbands and sons return home from the battlefield. CNN's Chief Global Affairs Correspondent Matthew Chance has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): On state television, Russian troops are shown on the rampage, advancing near Bakhmut in Ukraine, seizing land as they say, pushing Ukrainian forces back.
 
They need soldiers. They don't know what to do, says this Russian commander.
 
But concern over the plight of Russia's own mobilized troops is beginning to stir.
 
Ordinary families with men serving in Ukraine are now pleading for them to return. We just want our husbands and sons to come home says this woman.
 
A brave call in a country where descent is barely tolerated.
 
But the partial mobilization of Russians which began last September was always an unpopular move -- as men were bused into military service, hundreds of thousands more fled the country to avoid the draft, even sent to Ukraine are still there.
 
Men like Alexander from Voronezh who says he was drafted in January this year.
 
Now, he wants home.
 
We are also tired, he says, on his social media post. Our backs and knees hurt. No one cares about the money or the benefits, he says, we just want to be allowed home everybody really wants that.
 
The Kremlin is in no mood to ease off this war.
 
With U.S. aid to Ukraine blocked in Congress, there is a feeling here West resolve may crumble, bolstering Vladimir Putin as he registers to stand virtually unopposed for yet another presidential return.
 
That which divides us must be put aside, Putin insists in his first campaign speech. Russia will be sovereigns, will not bear at all, he adds. Among Putin's hard-line supporters and there are many, the prospect of
 
his continued rain is being celebrated. We do not need any other president, one of them shouts.
 
But New Year celebrations elsewhere are muted. Bring my husband back, bring my dad home, say the festive messages on this tree.
 
The year is drawing to an end.
 
But Russia's conflict in Ukraine drags on.
 
Matthew Chance, CNN, Moscow. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Still to come, CNN investigates homophobic laws in Africa putting the LGBTQ Plus community at risk. Why one nonprofit groups name keeps coming up when we return.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[02:31:48]
 
CHURCH: Welcome back everyone. The Vatican issued a landmark ruling on Monday stating priests can now offer informal blessings to same-sex couples. It is a reversal of a 2021 ruling, where the Vatican blocked any such blessing, saying God cannot bless sin. The Catholic Church is not changing its stance on marriage, but the cardinal who wrote the declaration says, "When people ask for your blessing, an exhaustive moral analysis should not be placed as a precondition for conferring it."
 
Across Africa, members of the LGBTQ+ community are fighting legislation outlawing homosexuality. Supporters say the laws are protecting so-called family values. But those affected by them live in fear. CNN's David McKenzie has this exclusive report on the influence of an American charity on this issue.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DAVID MCKENZIE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): We are in Nairobi, tracking the impact of hate.
 
MCKENZIE: We are heading to a safe house that has been arranged for Ugandan's that have fled Uganda into Kenya, trying to get asylum.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): We are shielding their location, hiding their identity for their safety.
 
MCKENZIE: Hi, how are you doing?
 
ADRIAN, ASYLUM SEEKER: I'm fine.
 
MCKENZIE: Thank you for having us.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): No one is sure how many have fled, but the numbers have surged. In safe houses like this, their wounds are still fresh.
 
ADRIAN: He felt like he can cut me into pieces it would be better.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Adrian's own father tried to kill him, he says, for being gay.
 
ADRIAN: These are knives, he stabbed me. In Uganda, when they kill someone in the LGBT community, it is not a big deal.
 
SYLVIA, ASYLUM SEEKER: My mom came herself and she told me, "You know what, you are not welcome here. You are not a part of our family."
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Betrayed by their families, pursued by the police, they fled into Kenya on foot or by bus often in the dead of night. Now, they are afraid to go out. They keep their curtains shut from prying eyes. Since 2021, politicians have pushed a new generation of disturbing homophobic bills in Uganda, Ghana and Kenya. Some even calling for hefty jail terms, including life in prison for same-sex relationships and identifying as queer.
 
All of them to protect so called family values. For months, CNN has been investigating the influence of American charity "Family Watch International" headed by this woman, Sharon Slater. For years, the organization has been advocating across Africa for family values and against educating young people about LGBT issues and sexual health.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is Africa, and what it takes to be close to just stand next to the president of an African country in Africa, it means it's not random.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): The president is Yoweri Museveni of Uganda at a Sex Education Conference in Entebbe in April. The conference included politicians pushing the homophobic laws. This opposition researcher has tracked Slater's organization for years. We agreed to conceal his identity to protect the ongoing work.
 <br>[02:35:00]
 
ALI, RESEARCHER: She presents herself as an expert; she presents herself as a consultant.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): A source with direct knowledge of their involvement says they were much more instrumental than just consulting. The source says a Family Watch International representative made repeated changes to draft versions of the homophobic bill, together with members of parliament, even suggesting clauses that should be added to the text.
 
A CNN producer found Sharon Slater at the United Nations in New York.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE, CNN PRODUCER: Sharon Slater, there are allegations that Family Watch International is pushing homophobic laws in Africa. What you have to say in response to that?
 
SHARON SLATER, PRESIDENT, FAMILY WATCH INTERNATIONAL: Absurd. Totally, totally absurd. I've got documents I can send you later to show that I've not been involved in any of these laws, period. This is absurd.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Family Watch International provided this document to CNN, an extraordinary endorsement of Slater's work by President Yoweri Museveni. He says she played no part in "originating, canvassing or supporting the law," Instead suggesting a safe haven for homosexuals. The final law allows for the rehabilitation of offenders, including widely discredited conversion therapy.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gay people and lesbian people are human beings like me.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): We tracked down a youth leader in Nairobi with close ties to Family Watch International.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I would not be happy for them to be punished but what I would recommend is for them to respect and uphold those laws.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): Family Watch International said he is not authorized to speak for the organization.
 
MCKENZIE: So, you are happy with these laws being pushed, is what you are saying?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I'm happy for the laws being pushed.
 
MCKENZIE: I have seen people who are fearing for their lives on this continent because of these laws
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They are very minor cases.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): The awful reality is this. CNN has tracked a severe spike in abuse of LGBTQ Africans. Often put on social media, often too graphic to show. It is an epidemic of hate inspired by the laws. In Kenya, human rights groups say that attacks on the community have at least doubled in the last two years, with more than 1,000 incidents up until August. The proposed law here is the most sweeping yet.
 
PETER KALUMA, KENYAN PARLIAMENT MEMBER: When you engage in those acts of LGBT which are prohibited in Kenya, you become a criminal.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): The MP sponsoring the bill has Sharon Slater's book on family values on his shelf.
 
MCKENZIE: Family Watch International is not specifically helping with the drafting of these bills?
 
KALUMA: No, no, they can't. That would be to say, I don't have my own brain.
 
MCKENZIE (voice-over): In the safe house as the hate spreads, they fear their space is running out.
 
ADRIAN: I feel, at any point, I'm left with nowhere to go.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If I go outside there, they will notice that I am LGBTI. Sooner or later, I'll be dead.
 
MCKENZIE: The Ugandans face a difficult road to asylum, with no guarantees of success. Human rights experts believe that Family Watch International's work behind the scenes is pushing homophobia in the continent. It is an allegation the organization denies.
 
David McKenzie, CNN, Johannesburg.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHURCH: Still to come, unprecedented rain brought by a tropical cyclone caused widespread flooding in Australia. Now, the government has a plan to bail out flood victims. We will explain on the other side of the break, stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:40:45]
 
CHURCH: The Australian government will be providing financial aid to the victims of flash floods that hit Queensland over the weekend. Crews rescued hundreds of people in the wake of what had been Tropical Cyclone Jasper. Now, the government says it will pay the equivalent of $672 to adults, and $268 to children. This drone video gives you an idea of how widespread the flooding was.
 
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese says more troops are on their way to assist with rescue efforts. The flooding in Queensland is causing problems for humans and animals alike. In Cannes, kayakers stopped to save a wallaby floundering in the floodwaters and brought it back to safety. And in Ingham, rangers rounded up this 2.5-meter salt water crocodile from a flooded creek. Officials say the crock will eventually be taken to a zoo or crocodile farm.
 
NASA continues to push the boundaries of technology, this time, transmitting a video from deep space, nearly 19 million miles back to earth using a laser. The star of that video, meet Taters, the cat. The ultra-high-definition video shows the cat chasing the dot from a laser pointer. Not super exciting, of course, but the promise of the technology certainly is. The distance between the spacecraft which beamed that video and the observatory in California that received it is about 80 times the distance between earth and the moon. And that laser transmission reached earth in less than two minutes. NASA believes this technology could help push the limits of space exploration, with the ability to quickly send data, images, and videos.
 
I want to thank you for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. "World Sport" is coming up next. Then, I will be back in 15 minutes with more "CNN Newsroom." Do stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:00]
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[03:00:00]