Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Interview with Rep. Tim Burchett (R-TN): House GOP Moves to Formalize Biden Impeachment Inquiry; Michigan School Shooter to Learn Fate at Sentencing Hearing; Michigan School Shooter Speaks Before Sentencing. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired December 08, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
REP. TIM BURCHETT (R-TN), OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE: ... $5 million from a Communist Chinese member with Hunter Biden follows the very circuitous route. It goes around to James Biden, the president's brother, back through one of the 20, I believe 22 shell companies that have been created by Hunter Biden and his associates, and the 20 bank accounts. And then eventually flows a check to the president -- to President Biden. So, there's a pretty clear route. And I think the American public would be -- 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Wait there. Excuse me there, but there's no -- there's no connection to President Biden. So, what can you explain that? What are you talking about? 
 
BURCHETT: Well, yes. Well, yes, ma'am. There is this latest transaction there absolutely is. And there's a monthly payment from one of the companies that -- 
 
KEILAR: Wait, are you talking about the 1,300, the $1,380 transaction, the car payment reimbursement? 
 
BURCHETT: Well, that that now, that's what they're calling it. But actually I was actually talking in the first part about. 
 
KEILAR: No, that's what you're -- the committee. The committee put out a receipt that shows it's a reimbursement for a car payment. 
 
BURCHETT: That was the first one, ma'am. 
 
KEILAR: And also some of the other -- the ways in which you're characterizing some of the things about the involvement. it's just not as clear cut as you are characterizing it to be. 
 
BURCHETT: Are you going to let me talk? 
 
KEILAR: Well, I am going to make --
 
BURCHETT: Are you going to let me talk or should I interview you? 
 
KEILAR: I did let you speak.
 
BURCHETT: You're not allowing me to speak ma'am. KEILAR: , congressman, with all due respect, I did let -- 
 
BURCHETT: No, you're not, you're talking over me. I know this is CNN, and that's what you all are supposed to do. 
 
KEILAR: No, you're speaking over me, Sir, with all due --
 
(CROSSTALK) 
 
KEILAR: -- with all due respect, I let you speak, and then I clarify. Just to be clear about what you were saying. So then, let me ask you this, and I will let you speak. Since you're saying, you know, that so much of this has to do with President Biden. Although there is no evidence of that. Will the Oversight Committee subpoena him?
 
BURCHETT: Will the oversight committee subpoena, who? President Biden or Hunter.
 
KEILAR: The President.
 
BURCHETT: I don't know. At some point, I suspect that could happen, but I doubt he would show and I doubt Hunter is going to show now that he has officially been indicted for tax evasion and arms -- having a pistol when he was in fact on drugs. 
 
But back to my previous point, there is a clear line between the Communist China $5 million investment with Hunter Biden. Ma'am, the only qualification he has as far as I can see or job on an job application is hookers and crack cocaine. Let's just be honest, this guy is bad news. And you all want to cover for him and that's fine. But there is a circuitous route of the money throwing from the Communist Chinese to Hunter, to one of his 22 shell companies, to the President of the United States. And there is a -- there's several checks that have been made available to you all and you just refused to show them. 
 
And by saying there is no evidence, ma'am. And I realize that's the Democrat national talking points that you all continue to regurgitate. But the truth is, is that this stuff is out there, and it would behoove you ought to look at if you are investigative reporters, if not, just put it at the bottom, paid for by the Democrat National Committee. Because this is clearly, clearly money. We're talking about $30 million. What qualifications does Hunter Biden have for receiving $30 million from Burisma, of all places, from Russian oligarchs, from Chinese Communist members? The only, only qualification he has is his last name is Biden his father. 
 
KEILAR: I think that's a good question. I give you that. I mean, that's Sir. That's a good question. And no, these are salacious details in this indictment, of course. I mean, you read these 56 pages, there's crazy stuff in there. And I certainly give you that. But the receipts you're talking about release --  No, I let you speak. I let you speak, Sir. I let you speak. Now, please let me. Yes. 
 
BURCHETT: Well, $800,000 for -- $800,000 for adult entertainment, ma'am. KEILAR: No, I let you speak. I let you speak, Sir. I let you speak.
 
 Now, please let me. Yes. I let you speak. The receipts you're talking about released by the Oversight committee released by, you know, Republican led entities here. It's very clear what they're about. I just think we should be very clear about what they are. You know to that point that that's very important because it's not what you're making it out to be. Now that's not to say that you might not find something if you did. Certainly, we would be very interested in exploring that. But let's just be clear about what is out there now and call it what it is. And I don't know, you call that a talking point, but we're just following the facts here as they are at this moment in time. 
 
BURCHETT: The facts are, ma'am, Hunter Biden and the Biden crime family have received over $30 million. He has no qualifications. The president said, you can go back and review the tapes. He said, I did not talk to my son about any of his business dealings. Yet we have sworn testimony in Congress of a man who said that Hunter had literally handed the phone around to members of the board. 
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
You also have the president say that he did not invest -- he was not invested or anything with any of the Chinese Communist Chinese. $5,000,000 and that money flows from Hunter through one of his -- one of his shell corporations to Hunters uncle, the president's brother. And then you see a $40,000 check to the President of United or President Joe Biden or Vice President, then Vice President Joe Biden. 
 
So, ma'am, I mean, what qualifications are there? Where is this money coming from? Why are they paying? They're paying for influence. Let's be honest, these business transactions took place. 
 
KEILAR: That's a different. That's a different topic. Hunter Biden's qualifications, you can ask about that. Well, I'm out of time now, Sir. In fairness, but I just have to be clear right now, there is not that connection that you're alleging to the president. 
 
(CROSSTALK) 
 
And certainly that's something that should be explored if it were there. 
 
BURCHETT: You're ability to talk over me -- your ability to talk over me clearly -- 
 
KEILAR: Well, I'm out of time now, Sir. I'm out of time. I'm sorry, you said some of the same things three times. And if you didn't do that, we would have more time, Sir. But that's where we are. We're out of time now. I certainly appreciate you joining us today. (CROSSTALK)
 
BURCHETT: See any writings were in The Times, Ma'am, thank you. 
 
KEILAR: Congressman really appreciate your time, Sir. Thank you so much. You're welcome anytime. It's been my pleasure and I hope you have a Merry Christmas, ma'am. 
 
KEILAR: You too, Sir. 
 
Up next, emotional and really powerful statements. These have been gut wrenching by survivors and family members of the victims of the Oxford High School shooting in Michigan. They're in court right now for the shooter sentencing. We'll have that next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: In a Pontiac, Michigan courtroom school shooter, Ethan Crumbley, will soon be sentenced. But it's already been a highly emotional day, as the judge has heard victim impact statements from parents and siblings of the victims, along with students and teachers who may have survived but are now forever marked by what happened that day. CNN's Jean Casarez us there for us. And Jean, these impact statements at times have been very difficult to listen to. Which have most stood out to you? 
 
JEAN CASAREZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You know, I think all of them have their individuality, their uniqueness. I want to tell you what's happening right now in this courtroom. We're getting close to the end. Both sides have been arguing. The prosecution, of course, arguing for life without any possibility of parole. And now the defense is arguing, and they are saying that he is redeemable. That he is salvageable. That the person that he walked in two years ago to that jail is not the person of today. He's been undergoing psychological counseling. That he has gone through the stages of grief and that he needs to have a term of years so that then he can work toward that and at some point possibly be released. 
 
Now, one of the surviving shooting victims -- gave her victim impact statement today. Her name is Kylie Ossege. I want you to listen to how she described what happened to her. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KYLIE OSSEGE, SURVIVOR OF OXFORD, MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING: I was laying on my side like this. And I realized what had just happened. I was just shot. I thought I was going to die. I let myself drop back down onto the floor. Where I felt warmth on my face. Worked from blood soaking into the carpet. I remember hearing a squish sound against my right ear. And it was the sound of carpet mixed with blood going into my ear. I started yelling for help, but when I say yelling I mean a shout that was loud enough for someone around me to hear. Yet quiet enough for the shooter not to hear me.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CASAREZ: Now we do believe these closing arguments are nearing their end, and then it will be that moment for the sentence. And we don't know if the judge will have a short break if we'll go straight into it. But one more thing. The defendant himself can stand and make an allocution before the judge. He can beg for mercy. That is his right. And we are left to see if that is going to happen -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: Jean Casarez from Pontiac, Michigan. Please keep us posted, Jean. Stay with CNN. We're back in just a few minutes.
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
KEILAR: Police described this close call in Atlanta after a group of bystanders jumped into action and helped stop a woman from allegedly trying to set fire to the birth home of Dr. Martin Luther King Junior. 
 
SANCHEZ: Yes, that 26 year old woman is now under arrest, facing multiple charges. An 80 spokesperson tells CNN that she's actually a Navy veteran and police say that if those witnesses had not been there, the historic landmark could have turned into ashes. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JERRY DEBERRY, ATLANTA FIRE DEPARTMENT BATTALION CHIEF: It could have been a matter of seconds before the house was engulfed in flames. It was really about the timing and the witnesses being in the right place at the right time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
SANCHEZ: We actually have to step away for a moment and take you straight to a courtroom in Pontiac, Michigan, where Ethan Crumbley, the convicted shooter in a Michigan school, is speaking now. This is his elocution. Listen. 
 
ETHAN CRUMBLEY, KILLED FOR SCHOOLMATES IN MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING: I am the one who led to while. We were here today. I do not diminish any ability to anyone who could have stopped me. Of anyone of a school or parents, they did not know and I did not tell them what I plan to do. So they are not at fault of what I've done. 
 
I am a really bad person. I have done terrible things that no one should ever do. I have lied. Been not trustworthy. I've hurt many people. And that's what I've done and I'm not denying it. But that's not who I plan on to be. Whatever sentence it is, I do plan to be better than I am. I don't know if you'll believe that, but records of 15/20/25 years can show that I will change. Because it may not show it now for me, two years of records, but I am shy and that it will change because it may not show it now with only two years of records. But I am trying. 
 
And all I want is for the people I hurt to just have a final sense of culpability that justice has somewhat been served in any capacity that they can recognize it with. Any sentence that they asked for, I asked that you do impose it on me. Because I want them to be happy. And I want them to feel secure and safe. And I do not want them to worry another day. Because I really am sorry for what I've done, for what I've taken of them. I cannot give it back, but I can try my best in the future to help other people and that is what I would do. Thank you. Thank you. JUDGE KWAME ROWE, OAKLAND COUNTY, MICHIGAN CIRCUIT COURT: With that,
 
 this court has listened to extensive evidence in this case. I heard four days of testimony from the Miller hearing. I've presided over numerous placements hearings. I conducted, the initial placement hearing in this case, and so the court is fully aware of the defendant's upbringing. I'm fully aware of the circumstances that brought him before the court. 
 
First to the victims of the deceased, the court sends out its sincerest condolences to their family, to the injured victims and to those victims as it relates to count one, terrorism causing death. Thank you for your courage and strength in speaking today, as well as sending written correspondents. 
 
As Council has pointed out, the court has read everything that you've submitted. I've read the defendant Simpson Memorandum. I've read the people's response there too. I've read all of the exhibits that were attached and I've read every single victim impact statement over the course of three days. It probably took me closer to 36 hours to read all of this, and so I've read everything and have gone back through the complete file. 
 
The letters truly gave the court a sliver of insight into the unique and amazing personalities of Justin, Hana, Tate and Madisyn. The court cannot begin to imagine the fear that the parents of those students at Oxford High School had on November 30th, 2021. I cannot even begin to fathom. To have to wait in mire, to see if your loved one would return. It's heart wrenching. And that's true terror. And not to have your loved ones show up at Meijer, the court could not imagine the pain. 
 
I know that whatever sentence the court imposes will not bring your loved one back or cure the mental anguish or lifelong physical scars that some of you have. But I hope that this sentence does allow you to close one chapter in your life. 
 
I also want to thank law enforcement that responded that day because I know this has not been easy on them as well. 
 
As previously stated, the court has read dependent memorandum and the people's response. Again, defense argues that defendants should receive a term of years because of defense alleged mental illness. 
 
Defendant site, People Versus Bennett, 335 Mich. App. 409 in 2002 -- excuse me, 2021 case. The Court notes that it is not sane because the defendant may be mentally ill that that automatically means he's irreparably corrupt. What the Court notes is that he has an obsession with violence. That this act involved extensive planning, extensive research, and he executed on every last one of the things that he planned. 
 
As the court stated in his written opinion, in order regarding the Miller hearing, defendants alleged mental illness did not interfere with his ability to extensively plan for months. His actions, nor did it interfere with his ability to execute those plans. This started with him asking for a better gun to conduct the school shooting. He had initially a 22 caliber weapon, that he wrote, would not do enough damage. And so, weeks and weeks prior to this offense, he started to formulate this plan, and knew, and asks for the weapon that he could cause the most harm with. 
 
As Council is aware, the goals of sentencing do not only involve rehabilitation but also involve deterrence and punishment. Deterrence is two parts. 
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
It's private deterrence for the defendant and hopes that they would never commit an act like this again. But then there's also public deterrence. Where the public sees the punishment that the individual has received and hopes that the public will never do anything like this in the future. 
 
The court has read the report from Guidepost Solutions. It was very lengthy. Respectfully, the court does not find this report to be mitigating in this case. The report simply points the finger at Oxford public schools. While the court agrees that more possibly could have been done, that issue was not properly before this court. We are here for sentencing based upon the defendants actions, not the alleged shortcomings of others. 
 
As the defendant pointed out himself, he took responsibility. And he himself is not asking this court for a term of years. The court cannot underscore defendants extensive planning and execution in this case enough. He practiced shooting at a gun range. He practiced racking and un-racking the gun. And on November 30th, 2021, he could have chosen not to conduct the school shooting. 
 
When his parents were called to the school in that morning for his drawings, he could have said something then. He had a gun in his backpack at that time. When the school counselor advised the parents to please get him help within the next 48 hours. He could have stopped then and simply accepted the help that was going to be offered for him. Because according to the reports, his mother said that she did only help. 
 
He could have changed his mind. Unfortunately, after shooting the first person, Phoebe Arthur, he could have changed his mind at that point. But he didn't. He continued to walk through school, picking and choosing who was going to die. As the defendant sentence own words. This is nobody fought but his own. He stated this afternoon that with help that probably would not have stopped him. That is absolutely concerning to this court. 
 
The court apologized to the victim for the bluntness. But defendants shot and killed Justin Shilling at point blank range after having him get down on his knees in front of another student. He shot Hana, who was already shot once before. He went up to her to finish the job by shooting her again. That is an execution. That is torture. 
 
He shot most people multiple times. And as he wrote, he did this for notoriety. And he wanted to go down in history as the biggest school shooter in Michigan history. The court cannot ignore the deep trauma the defendant cost to the state of Michigan. But in particular, the Oxford community, courts simply cannot ignore that. The court knows that teachers and students returned to Oxford High School after this tragic event. The court cannot even fathom or imagine walking through the halls of that school, knowing that your fellow student, your friend, your classmate was killed in a restroom or in the hallway. 
 
Most, if not all, of the letters that I read advised the court that there are significant number of people in Oxford that now have PTSD. That now have survivors guilt. And deep depression that arose from this incident. Defendants actions clearly created a new normal for all of the individuals involved, and all of those indirectly impacted as well. 
 
Unfortunately, this is what the defendant wanted, as he wrote in his journal. He wanted to see the impact of his crime, which is why he did not take his own life. Again, this goes back to the defendants extensive planning. He chose not to die on that day because he wanted the notoriety. The terror that he caused in the state of Michigan and in Oxford is a true terrorism. Respectfully, the defendant is the rare juvenile before this court. 
 
The court, having read the PSI and being fully familiar -- but before I get that I will also note that Council brought up an issue of making bombs for Hitler. The court -- that does not change the courts opinion about the defendants obsession with violence I think Miss Loftin for bringing that to my attention, but it still does not change the courts opinion about him being obsessed with violence. Because his obsession was also outlined in the websites that he visited --