Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: 21-Year-Old Guardsman Arrested, Due In Court Today; Ex-Producer: Fox Lawyers Deleted Messages From Phone; Jury Selection Begins In $1.6B Case Against Fox News. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired April 14, 2023 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00]
 
MAX FOSTER, HOST, CNN NEWSROOM: The 21-year-old Massachusetts Air National Guardsman arrested in connection with the leaking of classified Pentagon documents is due in court today. A government source tells CNN that Jack Teixeira has been under surveillance for several days before his arrest, which was on Thursday. And multiple U.S. officials say he is believed to be the leader of that online chat group where the classified documents were posted.
 
BIANCA NOBILO, HOST, CNN NEWSROOM: Some of the material revealed U.S. doubts about Ukraine's capability in the war against Russia. All the documents expose U.S. spying efforts on adversaries and allies alike. Our Kim Brunhuber spoke earlier with a retired FBI Special Agent Steve Moore, and he asked how someone with such a junior rank got access to critically sensitive intelligence.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEVE MOORE, CNN LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTRIBUTOR, &amp; RETIRED SUPERVISORY SPECIAL AGENT, FBI: You can't even bring a cell phone into the type of facility in which he was working. So, obviously, he was breaking that rule pretty frequently because he was taking pictures. So, I think what we have here is just lacks command structure that allowed somebody who could go off to go off.
 
KIM BRUNHUBER, HOST, "CNN NEWSROOM": So, that's his access, but then there is the fact that it took so long for this breach to be discovered. What does that tell you?
 
MOORE: Well, the issue here is that until you see the breach out in public, you don't know it's gone necessarily. And to have access to top secret information, you have to sign saying you viewed a document. You have all these different issues, different hoops you need to jump through, just to view the document, which is why he was found so quickly. But, you don't know if the person is taking that information and using it against you until you see it in the press, or you have bad consequences internationally.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: A former producer is escalating her lawsuit against Fox News, adding CEO Suzanne Scott as a defendant. Abby Grossberg also claims Fox lawyers deleted messages from her phone as part of their efforts to protect the network. Fox previously said her lawsuit was riddled with false allegations.
 
NOBILO: Meanwhile, jury selection resumes Monday in another high- profile lawsuit against Fox. CNN's Brian Todd has that story.
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The curtain officially raised in what could be an explosive trial. Jury selection started today in the $1.6 billion lawsuit against Fox News brought by Dominion Voting Systems. Potential jurors asked if they regularly watch Fox News programs, and whether they can still be impartial if they do.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELLIOT WILLIAMS, FMR. U.S. DEPUTY ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL: Simply knowing a story isn't enough to get someone kicked off of a jury, because judges often instruct or will instruct jurors to put aside anything they know about the case beforehand and pledge to be fair.
 
TUCKER CARLSON, FOX NEWS CHANEL HOST: Tonight, you're watching the--
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TODD: The case centers around Fox's decision to allow strange inaccurate claims about Dominion onto its airwaves after the 2020 election to promote the false theory that the election was stolen from Donald Trump.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CARLSON: Electronic voting machines didn't allow people to vote, apparently, and that whatever you think of it, the cause of it, it shakes people's faith in the system. That is an actual threat to democracy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TODD: Host Tucker Carlson, part of an array of high-profile Fox hosts and executives, expected to take the stand, a roster including Sean Hannity, Laura Ingraham, Fox Chairman Rupert Murdoch, and Fox News CEO Suzanne Scott. But, analyst Erik Wemple says much of Dominion's case will likely center around second tier stars like Lou Dobbs, Jeanine Pirro and Maria Bartiromo.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARIA BARTIROMO, FOX BUSINESS ANCHOR: Sidney, we talked about the Dominion software. I know that there were voting irregularities. Tell me about that.
 
ERIK WEMPLE, WASHINGTON POST MEDIA CRITIC: Those people, their state of mind is going to play a really big role in this. What did they know? When did they know? There is going to be situations where they're going to be read back their text messages, the text messages to their producers, all kinds of correspondence saying, you knew this is BS. Didn't you? (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TODD: On Thursday, audio recordings of previously on aired conversations between Bartiromo and then Trump attorneys Rudy Giuliani and Sidney Powell were made public after being played in court, Giuliani and Powell, two of the most vociferous promoters of election lies.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER DONALD TRUMP ATTORNEY: We have more than enough unobserved ballots in Michigan and in Pennsylvania to overthrow the election.
 
BARTIROMO: OK. Perfect.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TODD: The discovery process has already been bruising for Fox with Rupert Murdoch saying, under oath of the election denialism on Fox, I would have liked us to be stronger in denouncing it, in hindsight.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WEMPLE: With Rupert Murdoch, he is where the entire organization rots from. He confessed in a deposition that he could have stopped this madness, but he chose not to. That's a tremendously incriminating comment, at least journalistically.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
TODD: Fox says it hasn't defamed anyone, and says the Dominion suit is a breach of its First Amendment rights.
 
Fox News is not the only entity that Dominion is going out after regarding misinformation following the 2020 election.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
Dominion has also filed suit against Trump ally and My Pillow CEO, Mike Lindell, against former Trump attorneys Rudy Giuliani and Sidney Powell, and against two smaller right wing networks, Newsmax and One America News Network. Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
NOBILO: New video shows the sheer devastation that months of fighting have left on the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut.
 
FOSTER: The footage shows a ghost town with entire city blocks obliterated by brutal battles. The video was released by a Russian state-owned news outlet. Ukraine says Russia is by no means giving up on trying to take full control of Bakhmut, but Kyiv is also turning its attention to the Black Sea where it wants to keep Russian power in check.
 
NOBILO: For more now, let's go to Barbie Nadeau who is joining us from Rome. Barbie, let's begin on Bakhmut. Obviously, battles have been raging there for many, many months now. We've heard from British intelligence in the last 24 hours suggesting that the Russians have re-energized their attack, meaning that the Ukrainian troops have had to pull back. What do we know about what's happening?
 
BARBIE NADEAU, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: Well, this is kind of becoming a war of propaganda when it comes to Bakhmut. We see these videos, is utter devastation, the city literally being wiped off the map, but yet Ukraine is saying Russia has really suffered heavy losses in that city in terms of personnel, in terms of military equipment, and that despite their effort, they just really haven't been able to take over the city. So, that is a battle still raging, certainly both on the battlefield and the airwaves too. Bianca, Max.
 
FOSTER: In terms of this call for support from NATO to secure the Black Sea, is that -- just explain what they're concerned about there, the Ukrainians, and whether they're likely to get that support.
 
NADEAU: Well, Russia saying that the Black Sea will never be a NATO sea, Ukraine instead insisting it needs to be demilitarized. Let's listen to what the Ukraine Foreign Minister had to say about this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DMYTRO KULEBA, UKRAINIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: I assume we all understand now that fear is not a strategy. It is time to work out a comprehensive security network for all nations on all the region that feel threatened by the maniac on the loose. It's time to turn Black Sea into what the Baltic Sea has become, a sea of NATO.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NADEAU: And you know, that's going to be a very difficult endeavor indeed because of the opposition by Russian in turning this into a NATO sea. We'll see where this goes though as these battles continue.
 
FOSTER: OK. Barbie, thank you.
 
NOBILO: Brazil's President in China for a visit that marks his country's return to the diplomatic stage. You're looking at live pictures right there. But, as Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva meets with Chinese President Xi Jinping, one top geopolitical issue is conspicuously not on the agenda. Details, coming up.
 
FOSTER: North Korea says it's launched a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile. What we're learning about the weapons test, is coming up next too.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Beijing right now, and is just been greeted by the Chinese President Xi Jinping. Earlier, Mr. Lula laid a brief in Tiananmen Square. His visit to China is seen as an indicator of Brazil's return to the world diplomatic stage.
 
NOBILO: But, despite previously vowing to discuss peacemaking strategies with Russia's ally, there is no mention of the war in Ukraine on Mr. Lula's official schedule. Instead, he and Mr. Xi are expected to focus mostly on issues of trade and investment.
 
FOSTER: Anna Coren joins me from Hong Kong with details on all of this. Lula da Silva really that -- do what his predecessor didn't do and get out there on the world stage. But, what does this mean from the Chinese point of view?
 
ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Max, this is all about trade and lucrative deals. But, I guess it's not just Brazil that wants to cement that strong economic partnership with China. Last week, it was the French President. The month -- last month, it was Spain's Prime Minister, now Brazilian President Lula, who as we can see is there with Xi Jinping outside the Great Hall of the People to inspect the troops. This is a pomp and ceremony at its very best, Beijing style. This is obviously a critical relationship for Brazil. China is its largest trading partner. But, the relationship is, as you say Max, been a little frosty the past four years under the leadership of former Brazilian leader Jair Bolsonaro who was firmly aligned with former U.S. President Donald Trump.
 
So, this three-day visit is definitely a reset, and from what we can see, warm relations are in the making. China's economic might (ph) is the world's second largest economy is of great importance to Brazil, but so too is Beijing's push to end the dominance of the U.S. dollar for international trade. President Lula is definitely behind China on this. And during his visit yesterday to the New Development Bank in Shanghai, which is also known as the BRICS Bank. Lula called on developing countries to work towards replacing the greenback. Take a listen.
 
OK, no sweat there. But, he went on to say, why should we have to do business through the U.S. dollar? Earlier this year, the two countries announced a deal to trade in their own currencies, ditching the dollar as an intermediary. And just this month, Brazil's Central Bank announced that the yuan had overtaken the euro as the country's second largest international reserve currency. That is very significant.
 
Now, for Lula, who took office in January, this is in fact his third state visit to China. During his first presidency back in the early 2000s, Lula was particularly close to former Chinese President Hu Jintao, and during that partnership, China overtook the U.S. as Brazil's top trading partner, and still remains that to this day, China importing Brazilian soybeans, iron ore and oil. Now, one more than 20 business deals are expected to be signed on this trip. The issue of Ukraine is not on the official agenda. Lula is calling for a peace club of non-aligned countries to mediate between Russia and Ukraine. As we know, China has proposed its own peace deal. But, Max and Bianca, that is yet to gain any traction.
 
FOSTER: OK. Anna, thank you very much indeed. Kids getting into it that. NOBILO: Yes. That's exactly how I agreed to do this morning when you're on holiday. But, in all seriousness, seeing these geopolitical tectonic plates shifting, it feels like we're at a very pivotal moment in global affairs.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
FOSTER: We are seeing Xi out and about more, getting involved in the world. Isn't it? Isn't he?
 
NOBILO: North Korea says the rocket that it launched on Thursday was a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile.
 
FOSTER: State media reports that leader Kim Jong-un guided the weapons tests. It was reportedly a solid fueled ICBM, which can be moved more easily and launched quickly, more quickly than a liquid fueled rocket.
 
NOBILO: To discuss is CNN's Paula Hancocks. She joins us from Seoul. Paula, how concerned should the world be about this new development?
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Bianca and Max, we knew this was coming, because the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un told us it was coming back in January 2021 when he laid out his five-year military plan, and he said one of the things he wanted to be able to do is to launch a solid fuel ICBM. That is what North Korea has claimed that they have done on Thursday here, releasing pictures of that this morning, this Friday. But, the key part is the fuel itself, the fact that it is solid fuel means that it's much easier to handle. It's quick to launch, and of course, that means it's much harder to detect, and if need be, to intercept.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANKIT PANDA, STANTON SR. FELLOW, CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTL. PEACE: Solid fuel ICBMs compared to their liquid propellant counterparts are, generally speaking, much more responsive in a crisis. That means that they can be used much quicker. They don't need to be fueled right before they're launched. Think of a firecracker that's ready to go once the fuse is lit. A solid fuel ICBM is something similar.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HANCOCKS: Now, Kim Jong-un watched the launch himself with his wife and his daughter. It was called a great success. What we've heard from the South Korean side there, the defense ministry saying that it may well have been a solid fuel technology used, but they do believe that it will take more time and more effort from North Korea to be able to perfect this development. Now, of course, time and effort is the one thing that Kim Jong-un has. And so, certainly, there was an expectation that he will continue to hone in on these particular weapons capabilities.
 
It comes at an interesting time as well. It comes while there is absolutely no communication between North and South Korea. There is no dialogue at the moment. But, they do have hotlines where there is a phone call in the morning and in the afternoon, and that is basically to try and lower tensions if need be, make sure there is no miscalculation. But, for the past week, South Korea has been using that hotline and Pyongyang simply hasn't been picking up the phone. They have done this in the past, usually to show their irritation or displeasure at joint military drills between the U.S. and South Korea, or something else they don't agree with. And certainly, over recent months, we have seen significant military exercises between the U.S. and South Korea. Max and Bianca.
 
NOBILO: Definitely a period of heightened tensions. Paula Hancocks in Seoul, thank you so much.
 
FOSTER: Just in, new clashes have broken out near one of Islam's holiest sites, the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem. A video obtained by CNN shows Israeli police using stun guns and battens as they try to disperse a crowd gathered near the mosque. It's unclear from the footage what sparked this confrontation. But, witnesses say police closed the gates of the compound to prevent worshippers from getting to the mosque for dawn prayer. Israeli police have not yet responded to CNN's requests about the incident, and asking questions there.
 
NOBILO: The footage that you're seeing right now, that is from last week when officers stormed into Al-Aqsa twice, setting off tremendous outrage from across the Muslim and Arab world. Police say that they began raiding the mosque after hundreds of rioters barricaded themselves inside, throwing fireworks and stones.
 
FOSTER: The Major League Baseball season is only two weeks old, but there is one team that hasn't lost a single game. The Tampa Bay Rays go for the record tonight in Toronto.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Baseball's Tampa Bay Rays are making a run for the record books. The team has won all 13 games so far, outscoring their opponents 101 to 30. A win tonight against the Toronto Blue Jays will set the record for the most wins to start the season.
 
NOBILO: A three-run double by Harold Ramirez in the fifth inning sealed Thursday's victory over the Boston Red Sox. Pitcher Kevin Kelly got the win for Tampa. Reporters asked manager Kevin Cash how he was feeling about the streak after the game.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEVIN CASH, TAMPA BAY RAYS MANAGER: Pretty amazing. I mean, congrats to all of our guys. And I'm glad that we did it home because we had tremendous fan support throughout this entire home stand. They really got loud when we needed them to, and it seemed like our guys were energized by that. But, no doubt, when you do something like that, you're playing really well, and there is not a one part of our game right now that we don't feel good about.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
NOBILO: Now, to football, where the NFL is taking a big step to help prevent concussions. The league has announced a new helmet specifically for quarterbacks to cut down on head injuries.
 
FOSTER: Statistics show that half of all quarterback concussions happen when their helmets hit the ground. The newly designed helmets will be available for the coming season, but players won't be able to -- well, they won't be required to actually wear them. Interesting to see how many actually do.
 
Singer Celine Dion is trending this hour with news that her new single "Love Again" is out now.
 
(VIDEO PLAYING)
 
NOBILO: It's the title track for a film by the same name, starring Priyanka Chopra Jonas, with Dion making her film acting debut.
 
FOSTER: All this coming just months after Dion announced she has a rare progressive disorder called stiff-person syndrome, which causes spasms and makes it hard for her to sing. Dion's new album will be available on May the 12th.
 
NOBILO: And changing gears, is it a bagel or more of a cream cheese donut?
 
FOSTER: It's a big question.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
Either way, carb lovers in the US will have a new treat, a bagel stuffed with cream cheese. It is the brainchild, you can call it that, of a New York bagel shop, who are the makers of Philadelphia cream cheese. The bagels are baked before the cheese is piped in, similar to the way some donuts are made. Did you know that? They will be available starting today at the H&amp;H bagel locations in Manhattan and online.
 
NOBILO: You know that I'm a bit of a control freak. What I don't like about this is you can't see exactly how fresh it is because it's hidden. Whereas, if it's slathered on the top of the bagel, you can make that assessment.
 
FOSTER: I will take that feedback. What was it called?
 
NOBILO: H&amp;H.
 
FOSTER: H&amp;H. Yes. Remnants of bagels have long filled the bellies of New York's robust breed (ph) and population, of course--
 
NOBILO: A less discerning audience.
 
FOSTER: --which now faces a new nemesis. New York has appointed its first ever rat czar, or director of rodent mitigation. She says the conditions that help rats thrive will no longer be tolerated. No more dirty curbs, no more brazen borrowing.
 
NOBILO: She'll earn a salary of $155,000 a year to find innovative ways to cut off rats food sources. The city will also spend several million on improved inspections too.
 
FOSTER: They will never get rid of them. It's a big city.
 
NOBILO: We need one of those for the office.
 
FOSTER: We do have a mouse.
 
NOBILO: Yes. I think it's plural now.
 
FOSTER: Oh, really?
 
NOBILO: Yes. There has been some evidence.
 
FOSTER: Thank you for joining us here in The Newsroom, where there aren't any mice. I'm Max Foster.
 
NOBILO: And I'm Bianca Nobilo. Have a wonderful weekend. "Early Start" is next right here on CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)