Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Key Inflation Measure Saw Sharp Cool-Down In March; EPA Warns Asbestos May Be In Debris, Test Results To Be Released Today; Source: Jamie Foxx Hospitalized After "Medical Complication". Aired 11:30a-12p ET

Aired April 13, 2023 - 11:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:30:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: In Florida, some areas have seen an estimated 20-plus inches of rain. And what that means is it's leading to this, just flash flooding is crippling parts of the state. That's a Fort Lauderdale Airport that has been shut down. Broward County Mayor says that it's the most severe flooding he has ever seen. We'll continue to follow that as it's unfolding as we speak.
 
There's also this. Protesters on the streets of Paris, this is a live look at that, setting -- what we've seen so far this morning, people setting dumpsters ablaze, breaking into the headquarters of Louis Vuitton, we've seen clashes between police and protesters, and it's all leading up to a final decision on whether French President Macron's pension plan -- whether it's going to get the green light. That plan would raise the retirement age for the country to - from 62 to 64. And that is one reason that people have been taking to the streets. We can expect that ruling tomorrow. Sara.
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: A key inflation measure out this morning showed wholesale prices cooling more than expected in March. And the Federal Reserve issued a new prediction about the likelihood of a recession in the wake of last month's banking crisis. CNN's Rahel Solomon joins us now. Give us a sense of what these numbers mean to all of us.
 
RAHEL SOLOMON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Hey, Sara, good to be with you. Yes. So, this is yet another sign of moderating prices. It took us a while to get here, Sara, but here we are. So, this is the Producer Price Index, as you said, wholesale inflation, factory level inflation, supplier inflation. But what it showed for the month of March is that prices sell for producers about half of a percent on a monthly basis. Put another way on an annual basis, prices are still higher by about 2.7 percent.
 
But take a look at how this annual figure for the month of March compares to the month prior. And you can see the declines, right? 2.7 percent compared to 4.9 percent year over year in February. So, a pretty sharp decline there. We saw falls in the prices of energy and the prices of food. Now in the last hour, actually about at 9:00 a.m. -- in the 9:00 a.m. hour, I spoke to Dana Peterson. She was the chief economist at the Conference Board. And I asked her, do these numbers surprise you? And she said look, I mean supply chains have improved. That's helping on the good side. She said that demand for goods has fallen, that's also helping.
 
But this is what she pointed out. She said the key thing here that's driving inflation, especially consumer inflation, what people like you and me are experiencing -- 
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
SOLOMON: -- is services, especially for housing. And that is not going to show up in the PPI. Essentially, even if the data is showing overall prices are falling, if you're not actually feeling that in terms of where you spend, it probably says more about where you're spending if you're spending a lot on hotels, restaurants, airlines, movies. That sort of thing that the services side of the equation -- 
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
SOLOMON: -- we're not really seeing inflation cool significantly there. But is it a good sign, is it a welcome sign after what we've been through the last year or so in terms of rising prices? Definitely.
 
SIDNER: That's good to know. You know, the price at the grocery store important, right?
 
SOLOMON: Yes.
 
SIDNER: I still want to go to the movies though. John, what about you?
 
SOLOMON: You're here.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: You asking me out?
 
SOLOMON: Voucher it.
 
SIDNER: Sure. Why not? The whole family.
 
BERMAN: Let's do it.
 
SIDNER: OK, yes.
 
BERMAN: Let's do it.
 
BOLDUAN: I'm in.
 
BERMAN: Developing this morning. Tennessee state lawmaker Justin Pearson is back in his seat. Last hour, Pearson was sworn in after being ousted by Republican lawmakers just last week. CNN's Ryan Young is there at the Tennessee State Capitol. Ryan, what are you hearing from the newly sworn-in Representative Pearson this morning? RYAN YOUNG, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Here, a plenty John. We're inside the building right now. Those doors right there is where everyone stands. And then when he went inside, the cheers from the crowd have been amazing so far.
 
You see rally after rally for the Tennessee Three. And, of course, you're going to hear them now. Oh, and as he walks right now as we're talking. Who knew that was going to happen? So, Justin J. Pearson, he ends up getting his seat back. He walks back in. And, of course, he's excited about all this.
 
Justin, we're live on CNN, just as you would. Just tell me what is this like to get back inside here after everything that's happened?
 
JUSTIN PEARSON, DEMOCRATIC STATE REPRESENTATIVE, TENNESSEE: Yes. We -- District 86 is determined to make sure that people's voice is represented. And we are still dealing with the institutional problems of white supremacy, patriarchy that undergird this institution.
 
We just passed a bill that makes it illegal for people in colleges and universities to teach about race and sexism. We have a lot of challenges here in Tennessee, and we need everyone to be paying attention and holding the leaders here accountable for what they say and what they swore in their oats. And so, we got to keep fighting.
 
YOUNG: Well, that's like you said yesterday, it's time to get back to work.
 
PEARSON: Sure.
 
YOUNG: Is that what you plan to do totally?
 
PEARSON: Exactly. So, myself, Represent Jones, and Representative Johnson, we all just spoke out against this bill. And we are forcing the Republican Party in the state of Tennessee to see themselves, see what they are doing to the people in this community. And we have to have this people-powered movement continue to hold them accountable. And that's going to be required in the state of Tennessee and across the country.
 <br>[11:35:06]
 
YOUNG: My last question is how will people hold you accountable? What would one thing that you think you can deliver to the people after all this, that's happened?
 
PEARSON: Yes. We are going to pass sensible gun legislation. I've got 15 bills and every single slot is going to be about gun reform. And so, if you have recommendations for us to pass bills here in the state, and then please send them to me.
 
YOUNG: Thank you so much. Appreciate it.
 
PEARSON: Thank you so much.
 
YOUNG: (Speaking in a foreign language) So, John, sometimes it happens on live TV, someone just walks out and you grab them. So, look, this has been a long few days and of course, has happened last Thursday. All three representatives are now back in their seats. You got to think about the -- what's going to cost taxpayers because they're going to have to have a special election. So, this is not over just yet because that special election has to happen, John.
 
BERMAN: Ryan, when you're there as much as you are working as hard as you are, that doesn't just happen by chance. It's great reporting. Thanks so much for being there for us and bringing us you know live as it happens. Sara.
 
SIDNER: You're here, John. Coming up. A massive fire is still burning at an Indiana recycling plant as residents are growing concerned for their health. They know it's toxic. Find out what the EPA is warning may be left behind. That's after the break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:40:32]
 
BOLDUAN: This morning, the toxic fire is still burning in Richmond, Indiana. And with that, there are now growing concerns about the health effects that this unfolding disaster is having on the community there in Indiana. The EPA is warning asbestos may be in the debris left behind by this massive recycling plant fire. This is what the fire looked like just yesterday, on Wednesday. I mean, you still see how huge it is.
 
CNN's Omar Jimenez has the very latest for us. He's still on the ground for us. Omar, officials say that the air quality tests -- the initial results, if you will, are going to be released today. What are you hearing about this?
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Yes, Kate. So, we're basically -- or the EPA is basically looking to see if there are toxins in the air around the ground level. So, it's why they're continuing to do tests as they say 24/7. Now, today, as we take a look at basically what the situation is, emergency management says whether overnight allowed the smoke to settle more in and around the city and getting to places that previously didn't see it.
 
So, I want to show you a little bit of what we're seeing. We're much further back than what we were in previous days just because the air quality was a little tougher closer to it today. You can see it is not about the big black smoke that we saw when this was first blazing. It's not about how high the smoke is.
 
You see how it is now drifting as they've closed in on maybe what was causing this fire have gotten to the center of it, it is drifting over, and the footprint of it is incredibly wide and much lower than it had been in previous days. And again, that is the concern as officials before have said what is in those clouds, those big gray clouds have been definitely toxic. So that's why they're keeping a test on this.
 
You also mentioned that about potentially asbestos in debris. It's why the EPA says to -- that today, they're waiting on results of testing debris for asbestos. And on this particular facility, we had heard from the mayor and others that this is a place that had been cited as being unsafe previously.
 
What we now know specifically, back in a 2019 meeting they were being cited for unsafe. And actually, a judge agreed the -- a year later saying that this is a place that was a fire hazard. And at least an owner of the building said there was one spot that did not even have fire extinguishing capabilities.
 
I should mention that we've reached out to the owner, but haven't heard back. But obviously, a lot of questions we still have here, and tests whose results are still yet to come.
 
BOLDUAN: What an absolute mess that's unfolding then and they did not hold back yesterday. Those officials, they said we knew this was a fire hazard. And this is where they ended up. Omar, thank you. John.
 
JIMENEZ: Yes.
 
BERMAN: All right. Thanks so much, Kate. Just in to CNN. We are learning the Department of Justice is asking the Supreme Court to weigh in on an appeals court ruling on an abortion pill. CNN's Supreme Court Reporter Joan Biskupic joins us now.
 
Joan, I'm holding this release from the DOJ in my hands, asking the Supreme Court to weigh in on an appeals court, which allowed the continued sale of this abortion pill but with restrictions. So, is the DOJ asking the Supreme Court to get in on this because it doesn't want the restrictions?
 
JOAN BISKUPIC, CNN SENIOR SUPREME COURT ANALYST: Yes. A couple of things, John. This is a big development that brings this whole controversy right to the steps of the Supreme Court with the clock ticking. If the court doesn't act before about midnight Friday, this -- the original order could take effect and with a lot more restrictions on the first pill of this two-drug medication abortion protocol.
 
Let me tell you what Merrick Garland has just put out. You might have it there yourself. The Justice Department strongly disagrees with the first -- Fifth Circuit's decision to deny in part a request for a stay pending appeal. We will be seeking emergency relief from the Supreme Court to defend the FDA's scientific judgment and protect Americans' access to safe and effective reproductive care.
 
This case goes to how the FDA approves all drugs, not just this abortion drug. So, this is a really important matter for the Biden administration. And what all the scientific determinations had said to date, at least in the FDA's arguments is that this drug is safe and effective.
 
What the Fifth Circuit did in its last order last night was to say, as you -- as you just told our audience, that the two -- the approval that came in the year 2000 for the drug could stand but that additional ways that women were allowed to access the drug, for example, through the mail or in terms of timing, that those had been rolled back.
 <br>[11:45:13]
 
So, the key here, right now, if the Supreme Court -- if the Justice Department doesn't get relief from the Supreme Court, women would not be able to get this drug by mail as they can today. And they also would have limits on the labeling requirements for when it could be prescribed. So, as I said, restrictions in an overall attitude here that the Justice Department wants to fight all the way to the Supreme Court, John.
 
BERMAN: So, if the Supreme Court does nothing, then the restriction stays in place. They will all still be for sale in person if prescribed by a doctor. So, that's what nothing by the Supreme Court means. If they decide to weigh in here, how does that process work exactly, Joan?
 
BISKUPIC: OK. So, what they have been asked to do is to actually stay or suspend more of the lower court judge's order. And the part of the judge's order that goes to, as I said, requirements of whether women and physicians would -- could only make this drug available if people came in person to it rather than the possibility of mail right now. And also, as I said, different labeling restrictions. So -- and it's also -- I do have to say, it really goes right now to the authority over all of the FDA to set the terms for safe and effective drugs, John.
 
BERMAN: All right, we're going to have to watch the Supreme Court very closely, which means Joan, I imagine we will be speaking to you again in the next few days. Joan Biskupic, Supreme Court Analyst, thank you so much for being with us. Sara?
 
SIDNER: Later today, a hearing over the last will and testament for the late Lisa Marie Presley. What is at stake and who was taking issue with it? but first, Dr. Sanjay Gupta on why relationships are so incredibly important to your health on today's "CHASING LIFE."
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey there, I'm Dr. Sanjay Gupta, host of CNN's "CHASING LIFE" podcast.
 
People with good relationships and close friends are happier and live longer lives than people who don't have those social connections. Look, I didn't believe this at first, but it's really true. And it comes from this Harvard study of adult development, which, incidentally, is the longest scientific study ever conducted, 85 years and counting.
 
So, according to the Harvard psychiatrist and one of the study's directors, Robert Waldinger, loneliness can actually be toxic. But he also said not to worry because it's not about having dozens of friends or even being in a committed relationship. In fact, a high conflict stressful marriage could actually be bad for your health.
 
What you do need are people you can talk to in the middle of the night, if you're in crisis. You need warm relationships. You need a circle of people you can count on.
 
So, yes, exercise. Yes, watch what you eat. And also cultivate your social connections because it also is a key to a long and happy life.
 
And you can hear more about how to optimize your health and chase life wherever you get your podcasts.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:53:28]
 
SIDNER: This morning, a source telling CNN's Chloe Melas that actor Jamie Foxx is in the hospital after a medical complication. She is joining us now. Chloe, can you tell me a little bit about what happened to him?
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER (on camera): Yes. So, you know, we've spoken to somebody who has some insight into what happened. So, the other day -- no, Jamie Foxx has been filming a movie for Netflix called Back In Action. It stars Cameron Diaz, Glenn Close and so we've been seeing pictures of him. He was filming as recently as Monday.
 
And his daughter released this statement yesterday evening saying you know my dad, he's going to be OK but he suffered, you know, a medical complication. So, what we know is that this did not take place on the set. We do know that he's in the hospital, he's under observation and he remains there in Georgia.
 
We don't know the details as to what exactly happened but we do know that he was not taken to the hospital by ambulance. He was transported in a personal vehicle. So, the idea that maybe there was just like an emergency on set and a 911 call, that is not the case.
 
But he's still in the hospital, under observation so serious enough. But you know, as far as we know, Jamie Foxx has been working, Oscar- winner -- 
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
MELAS: -- musician, multi-hyphenate star, 55 years old, seemingly in good health, so obviously, so many people are wondering what happened. And I am telling you, Sara, social media has erupted -- 
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
MELAS: -- with kind words for him. From D. L. Hughley and so many of his fans on social media. People are just praying for him to pull through. And it looks like, according to what his daughter said, he's going to be OK.
 <br>[11:55:01]
 
SIDNER: You know, it's interesting though. He's 55 years old. He is seemingly in very good shape. He does everything like you said multitalented. But the reason why people I think, in this instance, are reaching out and pouring out their love and affection for him is because he does the same.
 
And he does it on social media as well. So, a lot of people hoping that he is going to be OK. You're saying his daughter is saying, looks like he's going to be OK. But we all want to know what happened here.
 
MELAS: Look, he's one of the most generous stars in Hollywood, someone that I have enjoyed interviewing over the years. He takes part in our CNN New Year's Eve special every single year.
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
MELAS: And I think the other thing, Sara, is that he's young, and he's so active.
 
SIDNER: Yes.
 
MELAS: And when people see these kinds of stories, it hits close to home. And I think that we've seen a lot of these sorts of medical emergencies and stories happen recently, even Jeremy Renner.
 
SIDNER: Right.
 
MELAS: And you know it does put things into perspective.
 
SIDNER: It shakes you. It does. Thank you so much, Chloe Melas.
 
MELAS: Thank you.
 
SIDNER: And that does it for us, John and Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Thank you so much for joining us. This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
BERMAN: "INSIDE POLITICS" is next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)