Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Trump's Two Eldest Sons Testify In Civil Fraud Trial; Palestinian-American Family Now Safely Out of Gaza; Israel Aid Bill In Limbo As House GOP Pairs It With IRS Cuts; Rep. Jake Auchincloss (D- MA) Discusses House Vote On Israel Aid Package; Senate Confirms New Chief Of Naval Operations Amid Tuberville Hold; GOP Senators' Special Meeting Planned Next Week To Discuss How To Move Forward Despite Tuberville's Military Holds. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired November 02, 2023 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:30:00]
 
NICK AKERMAN, FORMER ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEY FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK: Don Jr. had been contacted by "Forbes" magazine and told that there was a false statement on the financials respecting the size of his father's apartment.
 
Where the financials claimed it was 10,000 square feet -- 30,000 square feet when it was somewhat over 10,000 square feet and claimed an outrageous amount of money for the value of the apartment. And Don Jr never fixed that financial statement. 
 
Now, this has to be looked at in the context of where corporate compliance has gone since the Enron scandal in 2001. 
 
Companies are now required, just as Don Jr did here, to certify the financials, certify to banks that, in fact, he's actually kicked the tires on what the accountants did. 
 
He had the obligation to sit down with the accountants, go over those numbers, and explain to him where they got those numbers for. 
 
The fact that Don Jr claimed yesterday that he has no idea what "generally accepted accounting principles" are just doesn't cut it. He had the obligation to go through those financials. 
 
Now, even though it's not a public company, he has still made the same representations that public companies have been required to make by their CEOs or CFOs, post-Enron. He failed that miserably. 
 
And to simply claim that it's the fault of the accountants or the fault of the lawyers is complete nonsense.
 
Particularly in light of the fact that accountants have already testified, that the lawyer, Michael Cohen, has already testified that these numbers were all phony baloney. 
 
So this doesn't really get them very far. I think the judge is going to hold all of this against him. And I'm assuming that Eric Trump, who's just gotten up on the stand,
 
 is taking somewhat the same tack, if not asserting his Fifth Amendment against self-incrimination on the ground that a truthful answer would tend to incriminate him. 
 
JESSICA DEAN, CNN HOST: Right. And that's what I wanted to ask you about because we are going to hear from Eric. And it sounds like you do think he's just going to rely on the same explanation, which is it was the accountants. 
 
ACKERMAN: That's right. It's, the accountants did it. I mean, the fact of the matter is the other accountant who certified these financials was Allen Weisselberg. 
 
And what happened with Allen Weisselberg? He went to prison. He was fined a million dollars, including fines, penalties, et cetera. 
 
And what did the Trump Organization do? They gave him, as a severance, a million dollars, matching up exactly what the fines and penalties were on the criminal case. 
 
If that's not a case of hush money payment, I don't know what is. And I'm sure the judge is going to take that into account in his final decision. 
 
DEAN: All right. Nick Akerman, thanks so much for your analysis here. Always nice to see you. We appreciate it. 
 
A Palestinian-American family stuck in Gaza for weeks has now safely crossed into Egypt. The family's friend and attorney is joining us next to give us an update on their harrowing journey. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:37:41]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: We continue now with our breaking news. An Egyptian border official tells CNN that between 20 and 25 American citizens have gotten out of Gaza and reached the Egyptian side of the Rafah crossing. 
 
We've been following one of those families trying to leave for several weeks. Abood Okal and his wife and son were stuck in the enclave since October 7th and we've learned they were recently among those able to leave Gaza. 
 
The family's attorney, Sammy Nabulsi, joins us now live. 
 
Sammy, first, how are they doing? 
 
SAMMY NABULSI, ATTORNEY FOR AMERICAN FAMILY FINALLY ABLE TO LEAVE GAZA: I think they're doing great. I think they're very relieved. 
 
I haven't heard from them in a little bit. The last I heard from them, maybe three hours ago, they had boarded the shuttle buses after getting fully processed at the Rafah crossing, and they're on their way to Cairo. 
 
We're having some signal issues with them now. So I haven't been able to reach them. But certainly extremely relieved that they made it out. 
 
But also still continue to be worried about the other American citizens that are there. 
 
And unfortunately, while they were able to go, Abood's parents and brother, who are American citizens, were not in this initial group that has crossed. We're still also working on trying to get Rafat's (ph) mom and dad who are still in Gaza through the crossing as well. 
 
SANCHEZ: So glad to hear that they are safe and resting. 
 
Does the family have a message to the Biden administration about what they went through? And obviously about trying to get the rest of their family out. 
 
NABULSI: I mean, right now, what they've told me is just the thanks and gratitude they have for a world of people. 
 
They've expressed to me today really just since this morning they've been so thankful. They've expressed their deepest gratitude for all their friends and family around the world who made phone calls, told their story. 
 
They're so thankful to the community in Medway for coming out for them and looking over their home and their dog, Lily, over the last few weeks. 
 
They're so thankful for the U.S. Senators and representatives who fought for them and advocated for them. 
 
And they're thankful to the State Department for securing their safe departure. 
 
They obviously have a lot to process. They are emotionally and physically drained. But at the moment, right now, they're relieved. They're getting rest. They're on their way to Cairo.
 <br>[13:40:04]
 
And they're just so thankful for everyone, including you all, for telling their story frankly. It made a huge difference in getting them back to the United States. 
 
SANCHEZ: I'm sure they're grateful for you as well, Sammy. You've come on the air with us multiple times to keep us updated on them and to bring us their story. 
 
We've heard from one American citizen that was able to get out, Dr. Barbara Zind. She was able to cross into Egypt yesterday. She told CNN there was "no safe place for Gazans." I assume you might have heard similar from Abood. 
 
NABULSI: Yes, absolutely. I mean, this is why we were fighting so hard to try to have this happen sooner. 
 
Everything in Gaza became extremely dangerous and dire, not just for this family but every other American citizen and foreign national and, frankly, all of the civilians in Gaza who may not have the opportunity to depart. 
 
Whether it was from going hungry because they couldn't get food, becoming dehydrated because there's no access to clean drinking water, not being able to get medicine or fuel or cooking oil to have a hot meal. 
 
On top of all these, constant airstrikes. Even in the town of Rafah, where presumably all of the foreign nationals who wish to cross are currently located. 
 
I don't think there's a safe space. And that tracked largely with the stories and the messages that I would get from Abood every single day for the last three weeks. 
 
SANCHEZ: Sammy Nabulsi, we're so glad that your friends are OK. Please, if you get a chance to speak with them, send them our regards and keep us updated with their situation. 
 
NABULSI: I will. Thank you for telling their story. It literally saved their lives. 
 
SANCHEZ: Thanks again, Sammy. 
 
Still plenty more news to come on NEWS CENTRAL, including out of Capitol Hill. Speaker Mike Johnson sticking by his decision to make Israel aid conditional on IRS spending cuts that gut programs pushed by the Biden administration. 
 
That's also putting him at odds with Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell. What this divide over aid could mean for a critical moment in the Israel-Hamas war. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:46:37]
 
DEAN: Today, the House is set to vote on a $14 billion emergency aid package for Israel. But this is not a clean bill. House Republicans plan to offset those funds by slashing an equal sum from the IRS, which recently got a budget boost in President Biden's Inflation Reduction Act. 
 
Here's the newly minted House speaker explaining why he chose to do this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. MIKE JOHNSON (R-LA): I did not attach that for political purposes. OK? I attached it because, again, we're trying to get back to the principle of fiscal responsibility here. And that was the easiest and largest pile of money that's sitting
 
 there for us to be able to pay for this immediate obligation. So we're going to stand for that. And I'm going to continue to message that to the American people. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEAN: Now, this move is a non-starter for a lot of Democrats who would point out that the fresh IRS funds have already brought in nearly $200 million in tax revenue that millionaires owed. 
 
And the bill is likely doomed on the Senate side in its current form. 
 
I want to bring in Democratic Congressman from Massachusetts Jake Auchincloss. 
 
Congressman, great to have you on. Thanks so much for making time.
 
We just walked through what you all are going to vote on later today, House Speaker Mike Johnson choosing to link the Israel funding with the steep cuts to the IRS. And critics have said he's politicizing emergency aid. 
 
How do you plan to vote on this issue? 
 
REP. JAKE AUCHINCLOSS (D-MA): Thanks for having me on, Jessica. 
 
I strongly support Israel. I'm voting no on this bill because it's not a bill to support Israel. It's a clumsy political stunt by an amateur speaker who's already in way over his head. 
 
The president has dismissed it out of hand with a veto threat. Senator McConnell, Senator Schumer have dismissed out of hand because it's not serious. 
 
I mean, for one, even though he talks about fiscal responsibility, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has already been clear that this will increase the federal deficit. This is not even an offset. 
 
What it is, is a condition. It is conditioning Israel's security for the first time in American history. And I do not support conditional security aid to Israel. 
 
It will establish a dreadful precedent, where every time Israel needs American support, it will be tied to the whims of American domestic politics. It is unserious. 
 
But unfortunately, it is part of a broader pattern from this rookie speaker where he is doubling down on MAGA extremism as opposed to a bipartisan path forward for governance. 
 
For example, after the horrendous mass shooting in Lewiston, Maine, he has rejected calls for bipartisan gun safety legislation and has offered thoughts and prayers instead. Similarly, he's now playing politics with Israel. 
 
DEAN: And, Congressman, I just want to go back and remind everyone, you're saying here that you plan to vote no on this. 
 
You also represent one of the most heavily Jewish populated districts in the country. You yourself are Jewish. 
 
What will you say to constituents who may see this, despite your explanation, that you just laid out as a vote against Israel? 
 
AUCHINCLOSS: It's not a vote against Israel because this bill will never become law. The president has issued a veto threat. Both Senator McConnell and Senator Schumer have been clear it will never be introduced in the Senate. 
 
What this bill does do is establish a precedent that conditions aid to Israel. That precedent, which would be the first time that any country has been subject to conditioned aid, will undermine Israel's long-term security.
 <br>[13:49:59]
 
Because every time Israel needs further American support, it will be tethered to the whims of partisan politics. That is not good for Israel's security. 
 
If we can get a bill into the House, which I expect we will, that offers unconditional security aid to Israel, I look forward to being strongly in support of it. 
 
DEAN: And I want to talk more broadly about what we're seeing across the country right now. You've been outspoken of your criticism of your alma mater, Harvard, and its response to attacks on Israeli by Hamas and student groups there on campus.
 
We have seen a soaring number of anti-Semitic incidents across the country. It's a 388 percent of an increase from the ADL. That's what they say. But at college campuses specifically. Harvard, of course, a private university. 
 
The Biden administration has put out what it hopes are steps and done what it can do, it says, to help combat this.
 
But what other levers of government do you think can be used to combat this anti-Semitism? 
 
AUCHINCLOSS: The anti-Semitism that is bubbling up left and right is horrendous in this country and the world over. 
 
Members of the Knesset yesterday were shown videos from October 7th, uploaded by Hamas, heretofore unseen by the public. And these members of the Knesset in Israel left the room in tears. 
 
Some of them reportedly had to take tranquilizers because they saw videos of children begging for their lives and even worse.
 
And yet, morally misguided people, including many on college campuses, are somehow celebrating Hamas as resistance fighters. 
 
Hamas is an international recognized terrorist organization. They are depraved. And Israel needs to destroy them. 
 
DEAN: I also want to get your reaction to something one of your colleagues said on the floor about Palestinian civilians in Gaza. This is Florida Representative Republican Brian Mast. 
 
Listen to him. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. BRIAN MAST (R-FL): I would encourage the other side to not so lightly throw around the idea of "innocent Palestinian civilians," as is frequently said. I don't think we would so lightly throw around the term "innocent Nazi civilians" during World War II. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEAN: He's faced widespread condemnation for those comments. What do you say? 
 
AUCHINCLOSS: I reject those comments. There are two million people living in Gaza Strip, half of whom are children. Of course, they are innocent people and, of course, the Israeli Defense Forces need to uphold the rule of armed conflict. 
 
I would add, though, that Hamas should ascribe to the law of armed conflict, which it's, heretofore, refused to do. 
 
And that would mean releasing the hostages unconditionally. That would mean making a distinction between combatants and civilians by no longer using Palestinian people as human shields. 
 
That would mean Hamas would have to fight the Israeli Defense Forces without incurring devastating civilian casualties. 
 
So any calls for IDF to obey the law of conflict, which they are, need to be paired with exhortation to Hamas, which has, heretofore, rejected any international law, to also uphold the law of armed conflict. 
 
DEAN: Congressman Jake Auchincloss, thanks so much for making time. Appreciate it. 
 
AUCHINCLOSS: Appreciate it.
 
DEAN: Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: Also happening now on Capitol Hill, the Senate has just voted to confirm Admiral Lisa Franchetti as chief of Naval operations. This fills a key vacancy on the Joint Chiefs after her confirmation was delayed by Republican Senator Tommy Tuberville's hold on top military nominees. 
 
Republicans yesterday blasted Tuberville for single-handedly blocking hundreds of military appointments for months in his protest of the Pentagon's abortion travel policy. 
 
Let's get you out to Capitol Hill with CNN's Manu Raju who is live for us. 
 
Manu, we learned Republicans just left a lunch meeting confirming that they're going to have a meeting next week to strategize over what to do about Tuberville's holds. 
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right. Because this issue has been dominating the House and Senate GOP for the last several days. 
 
There's just been so much tension behind the scenes over Tommy Tuberville's nine-month blockade that is now affecting 370-plus military personnel from getting promotions over Tuberville's demand that the Pentagon scrap its policy giving reimbursement for individuals who travel out of state for abortion services. 
 
Tuberville said he is not going to back down, despite the growing public pressure.
 
And the first time Republicans taking their anger to the Senate floor and insisting he drop his blockade. He says he will not. 
 
Now, there's also concerns that many of these officials are having to do multiple jobs amid this blockade. 
 
I asked Tommy Tuberville about this issue, about whether he is concerned that people at the Marine Corp. and the Commandant, who was recently hospitalized, having to do two jobs at once. He downplayed those concerns. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Some of these people have multiple -- are doing multiple jobs. Some of these military personnel, even the Marine Corp Commandant, was doing two jobs. Aren't you making it harder for them to do their job? 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 <br>[13:55:07]
 
REP. TOMMY TUBERVILLE (R-AR): Two thousand people work here, OK? And so somebody said they're working 18 hours a day. Jack Reed blaming me for his heart attack. Come on, give me a break. 
 
This guy's going to work 18, 20 hours a day no matter what. That's what we do. I did that for years because you've got to get the job done. And you take it -- you try to do everything yourself. So we're not going down that road. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: Senate Republicans will have that special meeting next week. And that will come at a time when the Democratic leader in the Senate is trying to circumvent Tommy Tuberville altogether and actually change the Senate rules to allow all of these nominees to be confirmed in one fell swoop. But there's one issue. He needs Republicans support to do that. It
 
 requires 60 votes to create that new precedent in the Senate. So uncertain if they can get there. 
 
A lot of Republicans that I talk to simply don't want to change the Senate rules, want to figure out a way to resolve this with Tommy Tuberville. 
 
Others, like John Cornyn, the Republican -- one of the top Republicans, said he would not support it whatsoever. But there are some Senators who are open to that idea. And perhaps more will be open if this stalemate persists -- Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: Manu, I just want to point out, when Tommy Tuberville said he was working 18 to 20 hours a day, he was a head coach in college football. He had nothing to do with running the U.S. defense forces. Very different. 
 
Manu Raju, thanks so much for your reporting. 
 
Stay with CNN. We're back in just moments. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)