Headline: CNN 10
Sub-headline: Death Toll In Turkey-Syria Earthquake Tops 36,000; A Master Painter On Full Display. Aired 4-4:10a ET

Aired February 15, 2023 - 04:00:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
COY WIRE, CNN 10 ANCHOR:  Hello, lovely people. Wonderful Wednesday to you. It`s your boy Coy. Grateful to be spending part of our day right here with 
 
 you on CNN 10.
 
You know, sometimes when tragedy strikes, it can serve as a reminder that we should never take any of the moments we`re given for granted. We`re 
 
 starting with an update on the earthquake that has shattered families in Turkey and Syria. The 7.8 magnitude quake had taken the lives of more than 
 
 36,000 people as of the time of this show`s recording. Tens of thousands more are injured.
 
The latest report from Turkey`s health ministry said more than 19,000 people were hospitalized with injuries sustained from the disaster in more 
 
 than one thousand children in Turkey were separated from their parents. More than a week now after the earthquake struck and rescuers are still 
 
 working around the clock in hopes of saving lives. Seven more people were rescued from the rubble yesterday but hopes of finding further survivors 
 
 dwindle with every second that passes.
 
The reality is that survival stories are becoming few and far between as rescue operations start to shift recovery efforts.
 
And for many in Syria, the earthquake is just the latest in a decade-long series of tragedies. In recent years, the country has been torn apart and 
 
 1.7 million people are living in tents in refugee camps.
 
CNN`s Nada Bashir is in Istanbul where a massive effort to send aid is currently underway.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, a week on since Turkey was struck by devastating earthquake on Monday, and aid centers like this one here are 
 
 still being filled with volunteers, with donations to be distributed to those impacted by the earthquake. And as you can see here, boxes and boxes 
 
 are being filled up with life-saving humanitarian assistance, and crucial donations for those impacted by the earth (INAUDIBLE), clothes, blankets, 
 
 to toiletries, anything that someone who has been made homeless, displaced by the devastation could need in order to survive over the next few weeks.
 
And there are aid centers like this one you can see the sheer scale of this hangar where the aid donations are coming in. There are centers like this 
 
 across the country because of course as we are still seeing the death tolls rising and we are still seeing miraculously survivors being pulled out of 
 
 the rubble. This is now becoming more of a recovery effort than a rescue effort and there are of course thousands and thousands of people, of 
 
 families, extremely vulnerable now, desperately in need, hugely dependent on that humanitarian assistance between aid groups from across the globe, 
 
 traveling into Turkey to support in that effort.
 
And here in Istanbul, it`s not just the international aid that`s coming in, and there`s Turks, it`s people from this country piling into centers like 
 
 this one to provide those donations. There is a real sense of unity here, people really want to help and of course there are so many in need.
 
The question of what`s also now relating to northwest Syria, getting aid across the border there, through the Bab al-Hawa crossing, there has been 
 
 some logistical challenges as well as diplomatic challenges in getting the aid across the northwest Syria. That now seems to be coming through.
 
And, of course, we are also now beginning to see evacuations. People and families being evacuated from the impacted southeast region of Turkey to 
 
 even here in Istanbul where they will be sheltered over the next few weeks, many of them of course now displaced homeless with nowhere else to go.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Ten-second trivia: "Girl With a Pearl Earring" is a famous painting by what artist?
 
Johannes Vermeer, Leonardo da Vinci, Vincent van Gogh or Michelangelo?
 
Often compared to the "Mona Lisa", Johannesburg Vermeer painted "Girl With a Pearl Earring" in around 1665.
 
That painting is now part of an unprecedented show at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. The museum is putting on the largest showcase of Vermeer 
 
 paintings in our lifetime. Twenty-eight of the artist`s 37 attributed works are on display, even Vermeer himself did not see that many of his paintings 
 
 together all at one time.
 
Tickets for the event are sold out, but lucky us, CNN`s Nick Glass is taking us inside the exhibit to check it out.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NICK GLASS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  For a glorious 90 minutes, we had the place to ourselves. Vermeer`s paintings, their beauty, their size 
 
 demand intimacy and quiet.
 
And here was an opportunity to spend quality time with his most famous creation.
 
This is rare. I`ve been an arts score (ph), it`s -- one for something like 20 years, and to be alone with a painting like this "Girl With a Pearl 
 
 Erring", it`s extraordinary and she`s not alone.
 
The Rijksmuseum has pulled off an astonishing artistic coup, the greatest Vermeer show of this or any other lifetime, 28 of the 34 to 37 attributed 
 
 works. Vermeer himself would never have seen so many of his paintings altogether in one place.
 
TACO DIBBITS, DIRECTOR, RIJKSMUSEUM:  It`s very exciting. I`ve -- it kind of had this dream of having all the paintings together. Obviously, they`re 
 
 only about 37 paintings by Vermeer but having 28 here is just something we would have never saw possible.
 
GLASS:  "The Lacemaker" from the Louvre in Paris, "Girl With the Red Hat" from the National Gallery in Washington, "Girl Reading a Letter at an Open 
 
 Window" from the Gemaldegalerie in Dresden, Germany.
 
GREGOR WEBER, CO-CURATOR, RIJKSMUSEUM:  Remember that I saw for the first time two paintings by Vermeer from the National Gallery London, and I think 
 
 I fainted a little bit with such a glowing light in the paintings. And since then, I feel busy with Vermeer.
 
GLASS:  Vermeer has been under intense scrutiny in another way in the lab under infrared and other light. They`ve adapted specialist techniques first 
 
 used by NASA to map minerals on Mars and the moon. It amounts to non- invasive fine art archeology.
 
IGE VERSLYPE, PAINTINGS CONSERVATOR, RIKSMUSEUM:  It`s as if you`re looking over his shoulder and seeing what he`s doing.
 
GLASS:  We didn`t know it, but Vermeer never stopped experimenting.
 
ANNA KREKELER, PAINTINGS CONSERVATOR, RIJKSMUSEUM:  If you see the underlying paint layers for example, the underpaint, he really put on kind 
 
 of fast and rough brush strokes to define light and shadow. For example, in the tablecloth, you have areas where he -- where there`s black underpaint 
 
 like here and here, right the darkest shadows, and then on top where the light hits the table, he used a wide underpaint.
 
GLASS:  And behind her on the wall --  
 
KREKELER:  Here was a fire basket, a large element to dry your clothes, and then here was a -- was a jock rack with ducks hanging on it.
 
GLASS:  We`ve known for a long time that Vermeer was a genius with paints and a brush, but only now are we beginning to understand how precisely he 
 
 did it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WIRE:  Well, the Super Bowl is behind us, and I got to meet some pretty cool people in Arizona, like Miss Levrenz (ph). Shout outs to Cocopah 
 
 Middle School.
 
I also got to see Super Bowl traditions. Today`s story getting a 10 out of 10, the Puppy Bowl. Year 19 of the clash of canines took place on Sunday, 
 
 featuring team Ruff versus team Fluff.
 
A hundred and twenty-two pumped up pups from rescues and shelters across the country, this year`s game was intense. Penalty flags thrown for 
 
 unnecessary roughness and for excessive cuteness. For the first time ever, the Puppy Bowl went into overtime this year and it was team Fluff wagging 
 
 their way to the win 87-83.
 
Today is hashtag your word Wednesday. Follow me @CoyWire on Insta, Snapchat and TikTok and put your challenge words in the comments section of my most 
 
 recent post, and we`re going to choose one, fun one to work into tomorrow`s show. The last word was floccinaucinihilipilification which is the action 
 
 of deeming something as worthless.
 
One thing that`s not an exercise in floccinaucinihilipilification is shout out time.
 
Woodward Middle School in Woodward, Oklahoma, we see you. Thanks for subscribing and commenting on our CNN 10 YouTube Channel.
 
See you tomorrow, lovely people. I`m Coy Wire and we are CNN 10.
 
END