Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Additional Classified Pages Found at Biden's Delaware Home; Five People Dead, 60 Plus More Hurt in Missile Strike in Ukraine; Newly Uncovered E-mails of Idaho Suspect Bryan Kohberger Reveal Disturbing Details About Him. Aired 3-4p ET

Aired January 14, 2023 - 15:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:00:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TREVOR LAWRENCE, JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS: Just to see how far we've come in less than a year, imagine where we're going to be at, you know, this time next year and just moving forward. So it makes myself, it makes all the guys excited to be a part of myself where you already see the chemistry starting to click pretty early. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDY SCHOLES, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: They got six games in all over the next three days. On Sunday the Buffalo Bills are going to host the Miami Dolphins and Damar Hamlin was released from the hospital earlier this week. 
 
And, Fredricka, what a moment it will be if he's able to be on the field cheering on the team on Sunday. 
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Oh, my gosh. I know. It would be something else. We'll be hearing the screaming across the country. 
 
I'm Fredricka Whitfield. Thanks so much for being with me today. Jim Acosta is next. 
 
JIM ACOSTA, CNN ANCHOR: You're live in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Jim Acosta in Washington. 
 
We begin with new details on President Biden's classified documents saga. The president's special counsel confirming that several additional pages with classified material were discovered at Biden's Wilmington home Thursday evening. Those documents are in addition to 10 documents discovered in a closet at a Biden affiliated think tank. 
 
Workplans show a small closet to the left of Biden's desk and storage spaces in the adjoining conference room. Those documents did include top-secret material and dealt with matters involving Ukraine, Iran and the United Kingdom. There was also a memo from Biden to then President Obama as well as two briefing memos prepared for Biden's phone calls with the British prime minister and the president of the European Council. 
 
It's all the subject now of a special counsel investigation. CNN White House correspondent Arlette Saenz has more now. 
 
Arlette, what more can you tell us? 
 
ARLETTE SAENZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Jim, there have been so many twists and turns in this classified document saga, and the latest came this afternoon when the White House counsel revealed that there were an additional five pages bearing classified markings that were found at President Biden's residence up in Wilmington, Delaware. 
 
Now based on CNN's reporting, and also these disclosures that have come from the White House, it appears that there are approximately 20 documents that had classified markings found between the residence and that private office that Biden used when he left the vice presidency here in Washington, D.C. 
 
Now, on Thursday, the White House had revealed that the personal lawyers had found one document consisting of one page in a room that was adjacent to the garage up in Wilmington, Delaware. Now, today the White House released a further statement saying that -- and explaining some of the processes that was involved here, that the personal lawyers when they've been conducting these searches, those lawyers don't have security clearances. 
 
So when they have come across documents that are bearing classified markings, they had stopped their search and that is when they notified in the first instance it was the National Archives and now the Justice Department. And so that is what happened when these lawyers found this document on Wednesday. 
 
Now then on Thursday, the White House counsel Richard Sauber himself, since he has a security clearance, he went up to that house in Wilmington, Delaware. And here is what he said in a statement, quote, "Because I have a security clearance I went to Wilmington Thursday evening to facilitate providing the document the president's personal counsel found on Wednesday to the Justice Department. 
 
"While I was transferring it to the DOJ officials who accompanied me five additional pages with classification markings were discovered among the material with it, for a total of six pages. The DOJ officials with me immediately took possession of them." 
 
Now this is just the latest information that we are getting from the White House as they at times have struggled to provide details regarding these classified documents. One thing that the personal lawyer argues is that they can't -- they're limited in what they can share because they don't want to jeopardize the integrity of the investigation. But certainly this White House will continue to face questions. They say they will comply with the special counsel every step of the way. 
 
ACOSTA: All right. Arlette Saenz, thank you very much. 
 
Joining me now former Republican congressman and host of the "White Flag Podcast" Joe Walsh and CNN political commentator, attorney and former South Carolina state representative, Bakari Sellers. Bakari, Joe, great to see you both. 
 
Bakari, let me start with you. The White House has been saying that they immediately reported these documents to the National Archives. I mean, but there seemed to be new revelations coming nearly every day and it does seem as though they just have a messaging problem with this, in addition to a -- you know, know a problem with documents being discovered more so than what had been previously said to the public. How would you grade how this White House has handled this? 
 
BAKARI SELLER, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: So I do think that you're right, Jim. I think that there's more of a messaging problem than there is one of legality. I think that the questions that have to be answered such as, if this happened November 2nd why did we just find out this past Monday? I understand not trying to tamper and interfere with investigations but people want to know the answers to those question. 
 <br>[15:05:06]
 
This isn't a difficult messaging exercise, Jim, because the simple fact that this is vastly different from the 45th president of United States, I think that this is going to hinge on the lack of intent by this president to actually obstruct justice and the lack of intent by this president to hide documents such as what the 45th president of the United States did. The cooperation by his general counsel, the cooperation by his lawyers. 
 
So just come out and say, look, when I was vice president I messed up. I accidentally took some of these documents home. We found these documents, we reported them. They were classified. What type of classified documents they were. The difference between this and what we're -- what the special counsel is reviewing with the 45th president is the obstruction of justice, the volume of documents, what type of documents they were, et cetera. 
 
Just be honest. Sometimes this White House gets in trouble, Jim, because they're too cute (INAUDIBLE). 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. And Joe, I mean, you know, obviously, as Bakari said, there are differences between this case and the Trump case. There's no question about that. But when you were in Congress as a Republican member of the House, this would have been a no-brainer to investigate. 
 
JOE WALSH (R), FORMER ILLINOIS REPRESENTATIVE: A no-brainer to investigate and as a Republican sadly a no-brainer to just jump on. And we're seeing Republicans, we're seeing Republican hypocrisy who defended what Trump did, and Bakari is right. This is not at all similar to what Donald Trump did. To me, Biden, Jim, should just be, as Bakari said, straight-out honest. No excuses. This is wrong. We're cooperating. We're doing everything we're supposed to do. 
 
Joe Biden should contrast himself with how Trump and the Republicans reacted to Mar-a-Lago. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. And Joe, let me ask you this, because there has been, you know, as you said. Republicans quick to pounce on this. But at the same time, if you contrast that with what they were saying about Donald Trump and his handling of classified documents, there is, there has been a slight difference, to make an understatement there. Let's play. Let's watch. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. JAMES COMER (R-KY): What I've seen that the National Archives was concerned about Trump having in his possession didn't amount to a hill of beans. 
 
I don't know what documents were at Mar-a-Lago. 
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR: Is it fair to say that investigation will be a priority? 
 
COMER: That will not be a priority. 
 
This is very concerning. I mean, this is now the second location that the president was in possession of classified documents. Look, what's the vice president doing with classified documents? 
 
REP. MIKE TURNER (R-OH): This is so outrageous, that this has to rise to the level of, there better -- this better not be a clerical issue bean the archivist and the former president. I've been in the Oval Office with the president. I'd be very surprised if he has actual documents that rises to the level of an immediate national security threat. 
 
This facts and circumstances are just absolutely outrageous. I mean, this is completely mishandling of classified information. Why did he have these documents? When did he get them? Did he get them when he was vice president and then take them with him when he left? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Are you going to hold hearings? 
 
TURNER: It is possible that we will hold hearings on them. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: Hearings on the Biden documents. Maybe not on the Trump documents, Joe. 
 
WALSH: Jim, shameless. I mean, shameless hypocrisy, shameless partisanship. And again, to me, Biden, President Biden can be a contrast to this, and Democrats should be a contrast to this. The American people are sick of this. It was wrong. We're cooperating. And don't even mention how Trump is reacting to it. Just contrast yourself with it. 
 
ACOSTA: Bakari, you know, the president has a problem with, you know, recent video clips himself. The president was critical of Donald Trump having these documents, these kinds of documents at Mar-a-Lago and talked about it last year. Let's watch. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SCOTT PELLEY, CBS NEWS HOST: When you saw the photograph of the top secret documents laid out on the floor of Mar-a-Lago, what did you think to yourself looking at that image? 
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: How that could possibly happen. How, why anyone could be that irresponsible, and I thought, what data was in there that may compromise sources and methods? By that I mean names of people who helped or et cetera? And it just totally irresponsible. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ACOSTA: Bakari, how much political damage could this do to the president, do you think? 
 
SELLERS: I don't think much at all if, in fact, they do what Joe and I, and I'm sure they're not listening to any recommendations from us, what we're asking them to do, which is just to be honest and straightforward. I think that sometimes we think Americans and the people who watch our shows aren't the smartest people in the world, and that is the complete opposite of what is true. 
 
Americans are smart enough to see the difference between what happened in Mar-a-Lago, the 300-plus documents, the top-secret, the fact that you had a lawyer sign off on documents saying that they went through these documents and didn't find any classified documents. 
 <br>[15:10:03]
 
You have the National Archives actually asking for these documents and you rebuffing that. It's a clear delineation between what happened with the 45th president and what happened with the 46th president. The problem that we're having is the communication or lack of free flow of information. 
 
One of the things that I do appreciate and I think most people watching will appreciate it, that was the independence of the Department of Justice. This president promised that independence and we're seeing that independence because Merrick Garland's hand was pushed. The only thing he could do was a special counsel. People from my friends on the left will argue about the timing thereof, et cetera, but Merrick Garland has done his job and done his job well without the interference of the White House and that's refreshing to see either as a Democrat or Republican. At least it should be. 
 
ACOSTA: And Joe, getting to the other business facing this new Congress on top of all of this, we're seeing the makings of perhaps the biggest political battle of the first half of this year up on Capitol Hill since Republicans took control of the House, and that is the Treasury Department is now saying that the U.S. will reach the debt limit on January 19th. 
 
I think you and I were talking about this last week. And that extraordinary measures will have to be taken. How worried are you that House Republicans might push this to the brink, given what we saw with the mess over whether Kevin McCarthy was going to become speaker of the House? 
 
WALSH: Really worried. And the American people should be worried, and, Jim, you know, we went down this road, the Tea Party Caucus and the Freedom Caucus in the early days. Shut down the government and don't raise the debt limit or tie it to spending cuts, you can't do that. You can't mess with defaulting on America's credit. 
 
This Republican caucus hasn't learned from that, and I think they're in real trouble because McCarthy's hands are tied. It sounds like this is part of the deal, one of the deals that McCarthy cut with his caucus. 
 
ACOSTA: What do you think, Bakari? 
 
SELLERS: Yes. I actually think that many members of the Republican caucus or Freedom Caucus actually don't understand or know what the debt limit is, as Joe just said. Like you can't -- there are certain things you can't bargain against, there are certain things that you can't leverage against. But Kevin McCarthy has his first real test. And it's unfortunate that we're going to have to sit here and say it's up to whatever Matt Gaetz wants to do or Marjorie Taylor Greene wants to do, or whomever else is in this, or Ralph Norman wants to do because he doesn't have the ability to lead his caucus like, say, a Nancy Pelosi or a Speaker Boehner for that matter. 
 
He just doesn't have the skillset. The problem, though, that we're about to see is Republicans have an inability to lead when they get the gavel. We're going to see that, and we're going to see Americans suffer. If, in fact, they put this, the political blowhard, I may have just made that word up, but political blowhardness before the plight of the American people. 
 
WALSH: This is what the Republican Party base wants and that's what's driving this Republican caucus. 
 
ACOSTA: Yes. Certainly some dark clouds on the horizon. I think political blowhardness is a fine word to use in this day and age, Bakari. 
 
SELLERS: I'm a lawyer. We make it all the time. 
 
ACOSTA: We'll give you full credit for it. All right. Joe Walsh, Bakari Sellers, thanks, gentlemen, very much. We appreciate it. 
 
Ukraine says Russia launched a new wave of missile attacks across the country today. Ukrainian officials say five people including a child were killed in a Russian missile strike on an apartment building in Dnipro. Responders have been digging through the rubble to get survivors out. At least 35 people have been rescued from the debris. Officials say more than 60 people were injured. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy posted this video and vowed to, quote, "find everyone involved in this terror." 
 
Ukraine state power company says energy facilities were hit in five separate regions and the company's energy minister warns there will be emergency outages. CNN's Scott McLean is in Ukraine's capital. 
 
Scott, all of this is very worrisome. What's happening there? 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So, Jim, there had been somewhat of a lull on the missile strikes in a large chunk of the country and including Kyiv for the better part of the last two weeks and this was somewhat of a wakeup call and a literal wakeup call for a lot of people as the sound of explosions this morning actually came and could be heard from the city center. Only after then was the air raid alert system actually activated. A few hours later, there was another air raid alert, this one sent people rushing to take cover, many of them inside the city's metro stations deep underground. 
 
But as you said, the target for a lot of these strikes and the Ukrainians say that there were some 33 of them, almost two-thirds of them which were shot down. The target was energy infrastructure and this has been a common target for the Russians. There are regular blackouts inside this country because of the toll that's already been taken on the energy grid and officials say that while the system right now remains intact, the integrity of the system, sorry, remains intact, the deficit in terms of power has gotten substantially worse, which will mean more emergency power cuts. 
 <br>[15:15:03]
 
You also mentioned that strike in Dnipro. And I mean, looking at those pictures, it is difficult to imagine how anyone could have possibly survived and yet there were dozens of survivors. We have also, though, learned that amongst the five people who were killed, there was one child. And obviously there is continuing to be a frantic effort to pull any potential survivors out of that building, involving a heck of a lot of machinery and hundreds and hundreds of people. More than 300 the Ukrainians say. 
 
We're also getting more information from the Ukrainian side. They claimed that the type of missile that was used in this strike, Jim, was the same kind of missile that was used to strike a mall in Kremenchuk last summer. Now it seems like the target for that missile strike was a facility a few hundred meters away that repairs military vehicles. Obviously they did not hit their target, but this missile is not a precision one. It has the accuracy only of within a 500-meter radius or so. 
 
The Russians have thousands of these missiles, though. So if they're running through their more precision weapons, they can easily resort to something like this, but in this case it is very unclear if there was a military target or if this was a military target at all -- Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: And, Scott, today you met with some Ukrainian families who were desperately waiting to hear from their missing loved ones serving in Ukraine's military. What are they asking the Ukrainian government to do? 
 
MCLEAN: Yes. So they are hoping to shine a spotlight on the fact that there are so, so many Ukrainians who are either missing or have been taken as prisoners of war. We don't have official data. The Ukrainians have not put out these kinds of numbers but you get the impression from being at this demonstration that there are a heck of a lot. 
 
I met women who -- one woman who not only had a son injured on the frontlines but another one who disappeared last summer. I also met a woman who her 55-year-old father was a builder, he didn't have to go to war. He volunteered when the war started out of a sense of duty and now he is living in a Russian prison colony. She knows that because she received a handwritten letter from him. 
 
I also spoke to a woman who lost her son. By lost, I mean, her son is missing. She hasn't heard from him since last year, but she hopes, she has this instinct inside of her, she says, that he's still alive. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He was scared for the first time. Now he just misses his, his granddad, his father, and he wants to play with them, as before. That's why we're here. We want them to come back. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MCLEAN: My apologies. That woman that you saw there, that's the woman who her 55-year-old father in the Russian prison colony, and I asked her how her son was coping with all of this -- Jim. 
 
ACOSTA: Just heartbreaking. All right. Scott McLean, thank you very much. We appreciate it. 
 
And coming up, the reporting from the "New York Times" on disturbing newly uncovered online teenage postings from the alleged University of Idaho killer. What CNN's John Miller and a former top FBI profiler makes of what the suspect is saying about the demons inside mocking him. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:22:30]
 
ACOSTA: Today we're getting new and disturbing insights into the mental state of Bryan Kohberger, the PhD criminology student accused of murdering four University of Idaho students. The "New York Times" has uncovered online posts from his past that paint a picture of an isolated and depressed teenager. In one post, Kohberger writes, "I can say and do whatever I want with little or more," saying in another, "As I hug my family I look into their faces, I see nothing. It is like I am looking at a video game." 
 
Kohberger is currently being held on four counts of first-degree murder in the fatal stabbings of Kaylee Goncalves, Madison Mogen, Xana Kernodle, and Ethan Chapin. 
 
Joining us now is CNN chief law enforcement analyst John Miller and retired FBI profiler Kathy Canning-Mello. She's also an instructor of criminology at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. Kathy, let me start with you first. How typical is it to learn that a
 
 suspected killer viewed their own life as if it were a video game, without emotion? I mean, when you hear about something like that, some of this starts to make sense. 
 
KATHY CANNING-MELLO, INSTRUCTOR OF CRIMINOLOGY, UNC WILMINGTON: Absolutely. I find these texts really fascinating, and they give us some really, I think, important insights as to what Bryan Kohberger was feeling during his teen years where he was experiencing a dark period. Right? We have him addicted to heroin at the time. He's talking about suicidal ideation, he's talking about this lack of emotion that certainly we see evidenced at the crime scene. 
 
ACOSTA: And, John, how do you think all of these details will impact the case as investigators try to determine a motive? 
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: Well, motive has been still the burning question here because there's still no indication that he knew any of the victims and it is such a personal and hateful crime, and yet, you know, as Kathy could underscore, when -- I mean, every offender in the serial killer or mass murderer field is going to be highly individualized. Each one is different, that's a given. 
 
And yet there are common traits that run across these offenders, and one of them, and he kind of reads us through this in these e-mails is an inability to feel sympathy, no relationship with empathy, and an inability to feel guilt or remorse, which, of course, is the combination, the emotional cocktail that allows them to do the things they do, and then to be able to repeat those acts again if they're not stopped. 
 <br>[15:25:05]
 
ACOSTA: And, John, this detail in the "Times" that the suspect became fascinated with criminal psychology, said he hoped to provide counseling for high-profile criminals. I mean, that is -- that's a wrinkle that you don't see in many of these types of cases. 
 
MILLER: Jim, this is highly unusual but this is also, in this case, there are so many things that really beg to be dug into more. If you look at the posting he did as part of his master's project, asking criminals to come in and be interviewed with him as the coordinator about the psychological traits of decision-making during their crimes, what were you thinking when you did this violent act? How did it make you feel? What was your plan? What if anything did you leave behind? 
 
On one hand you could say that was a study, although the structure is very non-academic. On the other hand you could say that this was, as Mary Ellen O'Toole posited last night, this was an act of voyeurism, meaning these interviews would allow him to immerse himself in feelings that he was having by experiencing them through others. 
 
ACOSTA: That is disturbing. And Kathy, the "New York Times" says that one of Kohberger's friends told them or told this individual he suffered from a neurological condition called visual snow where people see scattered dots, like static on a TV, and one of the posts says, and I'm reading here, it is as if the ringing in my ears and the fuzz in my vision is simply all the demons in my head mocking me. That doesn't sound good. 
 
CANNING-MELLO: No. It sounds very disturbing, but we're going to have to have, I think, more deep interviews of people who know Bryan well in order to understand that condition that he had, and any impact it might have had on his behavior at the time or later in life, and if that condition still exists, we don't know that. So I think it's going to be incumbent upon prosecutors, investigators, and it's great now that they have a few more months to do this, to conduct these long behaviorally oriented interviews. 
 
When I was in the VAU, we had an (INAUDIBLE) called the general assessment questionnaire that had 100 questions that probed into areas of an individual's life, their personality traits, their hobbies, their attitudes, and it was -- meaning to get more insight about their behaviors because we have some, you know, casual contacts that said, you know, he's charming. Well, do we really know he's charming? Does he lack empathy? 
 
Is he cunning and manipulative? Is he controlling? Does he harbor misogynistic feelings? All of these things are going to be evident in people that know him well. Certainly we're getting some indications of his personality through his online persona, but we need to understand him offline as well, because at some point the prosecutor is going to have to paint a picture of this individual to a jury, and they're going to have to make some connections in their head. 
 
Is this the kind of person, number one, physically capable, but number two, psychologically emotionally capable of committing such heinous crimes? 
 
ACOSTA: And John, Kohberger has maintained his innocence through his lawyer. But, I mean, given what we discussed so far, there is a decent amount of evidence that police have, that investigators have in this case. Do they not? 
 
MILLER: That is true, and I mean, we're going by the American standard which is he is innocent until proven guilty. But when you look at the probable cause document you can certainly see based on the evidence that they put forward why he was charged in this case, and you can certainly see, and this is something that people really haven't focused on, is, authorities in Pennsylvania that helped put together the arrest warrant and execute the arrest are now going very carefully backwards through Kohberger's entire history from the time those e- mails were written as an adolescent right up to the time he left to go to the Washington-Idaho area because there is an overarching theory that a multiple murder of four people in the middle of the night is probably not an offender's first act of violence. 
 
They're looking at unsolved cases. They're going to use that DNA to compare them to samples they have. They're looking for any stalking behavior. They're really kind of going backwards to say, was there something we missed here? 
 
ACOSTA: Right. Especially when you go through some of the things that he said about himself. I mean that is very eye-opening stuff. 
 
All right, John Miller, Kathy Canning-Mello, thanks for that discussion. Fascinating discussion. Really appreciate the time. 
 
CANNING-MELLO: Thank you. 
 <br>[15:30:00]
 
ACOSTA: Still ahead, he was the cousin of a Black Lives Matter founder involved in a car accident. But when police showed up, why did he need to be tased? Los Angeles police body cam footage now under review after his death. That's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ACOSTA: Search-and-recovery efforts continue this hour after severe storms and tornadoes thrash the region. At least 37 tornadoes reported leaving at least nine dead in Alabama and Georgia. 
 
City of Griffin, Georgia, was hit with an EF-3 twister. And one family had a tree fall into their home. Everyone but the father able to escape. Pinned for hours under that tree until fire crews were able to rescue him. 
 
Now to California where the extreme weather batters that state. Right now, 25 million are under flood watches. Some areas seeing more than six times normal rainfall in the last two weeks. 
 
Today's concerns about further flooding and possible landslides. 
 <br>[15:35:03]
 
CNN's Natasha Chen is in Fairfax, California.
 
Natasha, what a mess left behind by these storms. What are you seeing there now? 
 
NATASHA CHEN, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Jim, there's just a slight drizzle right now. A bit of relief from the pouring we saw this morning. And there's more rain to be expected in the next 24, 48 hours. 
 
But the real threat here, even if we don't see as much rainfall as the state has seen over the last couple of weeks, the ground and rivers are already very saturated. 
 
It's not going to take much for flooding to happen, or mudslides, like what happened behind this set of buildings just yesterday. There were multiple trees that came crashing through the back. Nineteen residents along with all of their pets had to be evacuated. 
 
We spoke to one of those residents, Mark Fleischer, who told us what that felt like when it came through. Here he is. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARK FLEISCHER, APARTMENT RESIDENT: You have no idea unless you've been in one of these. I had never been in one of these. 
 
We had no idea what was happening until I came outside, and there were floods. This is nothing. It was coming down this broad, about this deep. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHEN: He says that he thought he heard thunder yesterday. But it wasn't thunder. It was actually just the mud and the hillside coming down there. 
 
Extremely dangerous for areas already so wet over the last couple of weeks, storm after storm.
 
And right now, what we're eyeing what we're watching, is the Russian River to the north and also the Salinas River, both expected to flood. 
 
We've seen warnings from Monterey County officials, from Santa Clara County officials, south of San Francisco, last night issuing some evacuation orders. 
 
So a lot of areas warning residents they really do have to be careful here, even if not seeing that that much rainfall as we have in the last couple of weeks. 
 
When talking to Mr. Fleischer, everybody acknowledges this is much- needed precipitation to help with the drought but wishes it were just a little more spread out -- Jim? 
 
ACOSTA: Absolutely. Space it apart just a little bit. 
 
In the meantime, Natasha Chen, thank you very much for your reporting. A lot of difficult days ahead for folks in that part of California. Thanks very much.
 
A cousin of a co-founder of the Black Lives Matter organization is dead after Los Angeles police repeatedly tased him following a traffic accident. 
 
I want to warn you, the video we're about to show is disturbing. 
 
Authorities say, after police arrived on the scene, 31-year-old Keenan Anderson resisted arrest, attempted to flee, and was warned multiple times before the taser was used. 
 
Police body camera footage shows Anderson's in distress, begging for help and, at one point, saying, quote, "They're trying to George Floyd me." 
 
CNN's Stephanie Elam has more.
 
Again, we want to warn you, what you're about to see is disturbing.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: All right. I'm going to tase -- I'm going to tase him.
 
KEENAN ANDERSON, DIED AFTER POLICE ARREST: They're trying to kill me.
 
STEPHANIE ELAM, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The end of a police encounter, the beginning of a nightmare for the family of 31-year-old Keenan Anderson. 
 
The cousin of Black Lives Matter co-founder, Patrisse Cullors, who posted, "Keenan deserves to be alive right now. His child deserves to be raised by his father."
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Sit with your legs crossed.
 
ANDERSON: Please, they're going to trying to kill me. Please.
 
ELAM: Police say began with a traffic accident that witnesses said, Anderson caused.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:: That guy right there, he caused that accident.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:: I think that guy is in very paranoid state.
 
ELAM: Anderson was running around near the scene, police say, when an officer caught up with him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Get off to the side here.
 
ANDERSON (text): Somebody is trying to kill me.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER: (text): Have a seat against the wall over here.
 
ANDERSON: I don't want to be in the black. I want people to see me.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER: (text): Sir. OK, you can sit right there then.
 
ELAM: He initially complied, dropping to his knees and putting his hands behind his head, as he pleaded with the officer.
 
ANDERSON: Please sir, I didn't mean to, sir. Please.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Hold on, hold on. OK.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER: (text): Come here. I don't want you in the road. Come here.
 
ELAM: Anderson later jogged into the middle of the road.
 
(HONKING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Come here.
 
ELAM: Where police restrained him and eventually tasered him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Turn over on your stomach right now! UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Watch your elbow, partner.
 
ANDERSON: They're trying to George Floyd me. They're trying to George Floyd me.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop. Stop it or I'm going to tase you.
 
OK, stop it or I'm going to tase you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop resisting.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop it or I'm going to tase you.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop resisting.
 
ANDERSON: Please.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: Stop resisting.
 
ANDERSON: Please, please, please!
 
(YELLING)
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: All right. I'm going to -- I'm going to tase him. I'm going to tase him.
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER:: OK.
 
ANDERSON: They're trying to kill me. They're trying to kill me. 
 
ELAM: The video, edited and released by LAPD, shows Anderson is tasered five times. He died later of cardiac arrest at the hospital.
 
MELINA ABDULLAH, CO-FOUNDER, BLACK LIVES MATTER LOS ANGELES CHAPTER: Keenan Anderson said, "They're trying to George Floyd me. They are trying to George Floyd me." And guess what happened? They did.
 
ELAM: Police say early test results indicate cocaine and marijuana in Anderson's system.
 
Keenan Anderson was a high school English teacher in Washington, D.C., visiting L.A. during winter break.
 
His death is one of three, involving LAPD officers last week.
 <br>[15:40:01]
 
MICHAEL MOORE, CHIEF, LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT: This cluster of events while miles apart deeply concern me.
 
ELAM: But police say, officer-involved deaths are falling to all-time lows. 
 
The chief vowing a full investigation, as Anderson's school calls him, "a deeply committed educator and father of a 6-year-old son. He was beloved by all." (on camera): The Los Angeles Police Department says of the more than 2,000 times police officers used force last year, 31 resulted in death. And of that 31, 80 percent involved drugs or alcohol. 
 
However, the police chief says that number is still too high, but it is a low for the department. 
 
As for Patrisse Cullors, who is the co-founder of Black Lives Matter and who is cousin to Keenan Anderson, she posted on Instagram, in part, that her cousin was, "Killed by police. Los Angeles has no mental health care structure, no real social services, just cops, cops, cops."  
 
Stephanie Elam, CNN, Los Angeles. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ACOSTA: It's been two years since Russian opposition leader and fierce Putin critic, Alexei Navalny, was arrested in Moscow and he's been held in Russian prisons under deteriorating conditions ever since. 
 
The story of how he ended up there after surviving an alleged murder attack and tracking down his own would-be assassins is told with urgency and drama of a spy thriller in the CNN film, "NAVALNY." 
 
Here's a preview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(PHONE RINGING)
 
ALEXI NAVALNY, RUSSIAN OPPOSITION LEADER &amp; PUTIN CRITIC (through translation): It's Alexei Navalny calling, and I was hoping you could tell me why you wanted to kill me?
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Remarkably, Vladimir Putin faces a legitimate opponent, Alexei Navalny. 
 
NAVALNY: I don't want Putin being president. 
 
If I want to be a leader of a country, I have to organize people. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The Kremlin hates Navalny so much that they refuse to say his name. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Passengers heard Navalny cry out in agony. 
 
NAVALNY: Come on, poisoned? Seriously? 
 
We are creating the coalition to fight this regime. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: If you are killed, what message do you leave behind to the Russian people? 
 
NAVALNY: It's very simple. Never give up. 
 
ANNOUNCER: "NAVALNY" tonight at 9:00 on CNN.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:46:24]
 
ACOSTA: Life has just changed in a major way for someone in Maine. The single winning ticket for last night's $1.35 billion Mega Millions jackpot drawing was sold at a gas station in the small town of Lebanon, Maine.
 
The ticket holder beat the bad mojo of Friday the 13th and defied one in 302 million odds to get all five numbers and the Mega Ball.
 
And Isabel Rosales joins me with more. 
 
I guess this explains why I'm here today. I didn't win, and neither did you. Somebody up in Maine did. 
 
ISABEL ROSALES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: With those odds, had who can blame us, right, Jim? 
 
ACOSTA: Right, yes.
 
ROSALES: This lucky winner just became mega rich overnight. However, they didn't take top spot for biggest jackpot in history. That belongs to the state of South Carolina back 2018, with a $1.357 billion jackpot.
 
Though a truly lucky Friday the 13th for this winner. As it turns out, six previous jackpots were won on Friday the 13th. Michigan, see that over and over on that list on your screen, especially lucky with four jackpots won in the state back in 2008, 2011, 2014, 2017. Then there's New York, 2009. Ohio, 2015. 
 
Last night's winner matched all six numbers, 30, 43, 45, 46, 61 and that gold Mega Ball, 14. So if this winner, whoever, whoever they are, takes a lump-sum cash payout that is around $724 million. 
 
So, Jim, I spoke with owner of the Hometown Gas and Grill in Lebanon, Maine, where that winning ticket was sold. 
 
And he told me he got a wake-up call that his store sold that winning ticket. He couldn't believe it. He thought it was a scam. Prior to last night, the highest winning ticket he'd ever sold was $1,000. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FRED COTREAU, OWNER, HOMETOWN GAS &amp; GRILL: My phone has not stopped. Everybody's all abuzz. We're a small rural community. Really good news for somebody. 
 
Almost incomprehensible to think about it. It is. Just to wrap your head around. How much it would change somebody's life, regardless of, regardless of your status and where you are, that kind of payout, yes. What do you do? I mean, where do you start? I wouldn't know where to
 
 start. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROSALES: Yes. Truly life-changing money there, Jim. 
 
Yes, I did ask. He doesn't know who the winner is or which cashier sold that winning ticket. 
 
But it's such a small community, hopes it's a local resident and suspects someone he knows. Maybe not someone showing up on Monday or Tuesday to work -- Jim? 
 
ACOSTA: Got to be very careful when revealing yourself as winner of that much money, I have to think. 
 
Isabel, maybe the next drawing. My rule is, when it gets up to $1 billion, I start buying the tickets. Maybe on the next one. 
 
All right. Isabel, thank you so much. Appreciate it. 
 <br>[15:49:22]
 
Coming up, UFOs. What the federal government just revealed and why it only adds to the scientific mystery of what's really out there. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ACOSTA: There are new questions about what precisely is going on in the sky. A Pentagon office this week revealed more than 350 reports of Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon. Most of them since March of 2021. You know them better as UFOs. 
 
The sightings come mostly from Navy and Air Force pilots and operators working in restricted military air space. 
 
Many cases turned out to be balloons, drones, birds, plastic bags or just weather. But the U.S. government still can't explain about half of the other reports. The truth is still out there. We'll stay on top of that one. 
 
In the meantime, a clouded leopard that escaped from the Dallas zoo is safely back in her enclosure and appears to be OK. 
 
Nova, who weighs in at 25 pounds, was found on zoo grounds on Friday afternoon after a day-long search. 
 
Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED POLICE OFFICER: It is our belief this was an intentional act. And so, we have started a criminal investigation. The fence that it escaped from, was intentionally cut. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[15:55:04]
 
ACOSTA: Very intriguing. Her disappearance prompted the closure of the Dallas zoo, as staff and police looked for her. Fortunately, she's back in her enclosure and A-OK. 
 
Still ahead, the White House revealing today more classified documents were found at the president's Delaware home. We'll have the latest on all of that. 
 
Plus, witness the rise and fall of a polarizing political figure. The CNN original series, "GIULIANI: WHAT HAPPENED TO AMERICA'S MAYOR?" That airs tomorrow at 9:00, right here on CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[16:00:04]
 
ACOSTA: You're live in the CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Jim Acosta in Washington. 
 
We begin this hour with new details about classified documents found inside President Biden's home in Delaware.