Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: U.N. Official Urges Probe into Deadly West Bank Violence; Russia Claims Ukrainian Forces Raided across Border; Greece Releases Audio of "Human Error" by Station Manager; Images Appear to Show Russian Changes at Zaporizhzhia Site; UAE Astronaut Among Four Headed to Intel Space Station; Exploring Trauma Through Art. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired March 02, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: An Israeli politician says a Palestinian town where two Israeli brothers were shot and killed must been 
 
 a raised. U.S. State Department has denounced those comments. This hour I'll speak to the UN Special Rapporteur for the occupied territories.
 
First up though, U.S. Secretary of State met with his Russian counterpart on the sidelines of the G20 meeting for the first time since the Ukraine 
 
 war began. Meanwhile, Russian security officials claiming Ukrainian group raided the Russian border; Ukraine dismissing the allegations as a 
 
 deliberate provocation.
 
People are in the streets of Greece following Tuesday's train crash that killed 46. The train station manager has been charged with mass deaths 
 
 through negligence. Plus, mysterious reports emerge in Iran that schoolgirls are being poisoned nearly 900 students have been affected.
 
Welcome to our second hour of "Connect the World"! Israel's far right Finance Minister says the Palestinian village of Huwara "Needs to be 
 
 erased". The town which is in occupied territory was already torched earlier this week by Israeli settlers, but there a little - now thinks the 
 
 State of Israel and not just settlers needs to take action and those comments drawing a rare condemnation from the U.S. State Department.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NED PRICE, U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSON: These comments are irresponsible. They were repugnant. They were disgusting. And just as we 
 
 condemn Palestinian incitement to violence, we condemn these provocative remarks that also announced to incitement to violence.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: And tonight we ask will there be accountability for the town? My next guest is heavily involved in what happens in the occupied West Bank 
 
 and has been very vocal about the provocations in Huwara and elsewhere.
 
She tweeted and I quote I urge accountability for the aggression against to our residents property and assaults in Jenin, Jericho and Nablus civilian 
 
 deaths in occupied Palestine including of Israeli settlers, though their presence is illegal and extra judicial killing of alleged perpetrators must 
 
 also be investigated at the International Criminal Court.
 
Francesca Albanese has years of academic experience on the Middle East, particularly the Israeli Palestinian conflict. She worked for decades as a 
 
 human rights expert for the United Nations advising governments and civil society across this region on the enforcement of human rights norms.
 
She now serves as the UN Special Rapporteur on the Occupied Palestinian Territories, and she joins me now live from Tunis. First up these comments 
 
 from small Tunis, Ned Price is calling for Netanyahu to publicly reject them. Do you think there's any chance that that will happen at this point?
 
FRANCESCA ALBANESE, U.N. SPECIAL RAPPORTEUR ON THE OCCUPIED PALESTINAIAN TERRITORIES: I don't know if there are chances Becky. The point is that 
 
 condemnation after something that constitutes an incitement to commit atrocity crimes is not enough to me. It's not enough for a country which 
 
 praises itself with upholding international law and human rights were wild not only domestically.
 
If you allow me just to put in context, what's going on in the occupied Palestinian territory, violence there is not something that flares up in 
 
 cycled and is replaced by calm after the flare up subsidence. There is - the violence there is daily structural and it's a regular component of 
 
 Palestinians life and it's much embedded in the occupation that Israel maintains, of which the colonies are an organic component.
 
The colonies I mean the people that you have seen aggressing civilians in Huwara, destroying their poor property setting ablaze 20 houses, hundreds 
 
 of cars. These are people who live the wrapped in bubbles of Israel's extraterritoriality.
 
While Palestinians live under physical confinement experiencing land confiscation, forced evictions, home demolitions, discriminatory law 
 
 enforcement, unabated violence. This is the context in the OPT in the "Occupied Palestinian Territory". So calling for condemnation or something 
 
 that represents an escalation of what has happened over 55 years is not enough for me.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
ANDERSON: I understand. As an occupying power in the West Bank, Israel has a legal obligation under the Geneva Conventions to protect the local 
 
 population. And I quote here against all acts of violence or threats there off. Is it acting legally at this point?
 
ALBANESE: No, Israel is not protecting the occupied population. But in a sense, why would it? Yes, of course, international law says that, but 
 
 whatever Israeli occupation stands for is in blatant violation of international law.
 
And it happens with into - the very presence, the very gross Becky of 270 colonies from zero there were no colonies in 1967 and now there are 270, 
 
 hosting homes to 750,000 Illegal settlers. This is a word crime in itself. So and this is why the occupation is maintained and is flourishing. So 
 
 there is no attempt whatsoever of the Israeli army to protect the Palestinian population.
 
ANDERSON: You are calling for Israeli actions in the West Bank to be investigated at the ICC. I just have to ask, realistically, how likely is 
 
 that to happen? Or is this a symbolic ask at this point?
 
ALBANESE: No, no, no. I just believe it. I mean, I know that it sounds naive. But why would it? I mean is it so absurd to expect that law gets 
 
 closer to justice than to politics for the Palestinians, but also for the Israelis, who are against this brutality and the illegality of the 
 
 occupation.
 
Because let me tell you, Becky the occupation and there is a wall to wall consensus among human rights actors in Palestine and in Israeli human 
 
 rights organization supported by international human rights organizations, and including special rapporteurs and others in the UN.
 
That the occupation has crossed the red line of legality, the occupation shouldn't be there in the first place. So yes, I do believe that it should 
 
 be investigated by the either by the ICC, or even whatever kind of constitutes war crimes or crimes against humanity can be also prosecuted 
 
 under I mean, national, of course, through the courts or through the universal jurisdiction.
 
And this is part of the accountability that is needed in the occupied Palestinian territory. Before these, there is new necessity that states 
 
 comply with international law and take measures recommended enshrined by the UN Charter.
 
ANDERSON: Let me ask you this, your role as Special Rapporteur is to monitor the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories. Since 
 
 your appointment last year, Israel has barred you, as I understand it from entering the country, how do you do the work that you do? How do you get 
 
 your job done?
 
ALBANESE: It's my correction as a Special Rapporteur on the right on the occupied Palestinian territory my role is to document and report to the 
 
 United Nations and of course, the public at large on the violations of international law that occurs in the occupied Palestinian territory.
 
Yes, of course, my reports, one to the Human Rights Council, and one to the General Assembly should be based on country visits. Now, I've lived in the 
 
 occupied Palestinian territory for several years and frequently traveled to the region.
 
So I know the reality but this facilitates the task, but Israel has prevented a special rapporteur holding this post from entering the occupied 
 
 Palestinian territory since 2007. So this is not - it's not against the actually. In November last year I was told that I would be granted a permit 
 
 to enter in line with Israelis obligations as an occupying power and--
 
ANDERSON: Do you have that permits?
 
ALBANESE: Not yet.
 
ANDERSON: It hasn't materialized. Let me ask you this briefly as Special Rapporteur monitoring the situation which is, you know, a situation of 
 
 escalation at this point, despite calls across the board for de-escalation? Are you concerned about the risk of a third intifada at this point? How bad 
 
 are things?
 
ALBANESE: I'm concerned with the loss of life. I'm deeply outrageously concerned with what's going to happen if the root causes of the violence? I 
 
 struggle to really call it embrace the concept of escalation because as I said, for the Palestinians as Israeli journalist Amira Hass says any 
 
 Israeli government has always been a military Junta for those under occupation.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
ALBANESE: So there have been many escalations. There might be - there might be a new uprising from the Palestinians and this would be a failure another 
 
 - yet another failure of the international community to deliver a minimum of justice and protection to the people on their occupation.
 
ANDERSON: I've got to leave it there. We thank you very much for joining us. Your analysis and insight is extremely important. Let's speak again. 
 
 Thank you all these issues, posing serious challenges for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu unprecedented and multifaceted challenges on nearly 
 
 every front.
 
CNN's Jerusalem Correspondent Hadas Gold who you will know if you're a regular viewer of this show, of course has written extensively on Mr. 
 
 Netanyahu's battles and most recently for CNN's Middle East Newsletter "Meanwhile in the Middle East". If you want to learn more about this and 
 
 other stories dominating this region do head to cnn.com/mideastnewsletter to subscribe.
 
The top U.S. and Russian diplomats have had an impromptu face to face meeting for the first time since Russia launched its so called special 
 
 military operation in Ukraine a year ago. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov talked on the sidelines of the G20 
 
 Summit in New Delhi.
 
U.S. official says Blinken initiated that brief meeting. When it happens as Russian security officials announced what they say is a Ukrainian raid 
 
 inside Russia. Regional Governor reports two people killed. President Vladimir Putin calls it a terrorist attack. Ukraine denies it calling it 
 
 either a Russian provocation or an attack by Russian partisans who oppose their government.
 
Kylie Atwood is following all of this from Washington. First to Fred Pleitgen, who is in Moscow! Let's start with that meeting in India G20 
 
 Finance Ministers Meeting. We got the view of the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, he addressed the gathered media what's the view from the 
 
 Russian side?
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the Russians are saying that Antony Blinken, the U.S. Secretary of State was 
 
 one who initiated that meeting. And they're sort of trying to brush off the importance of that meeting between the two Foreign Ministers between the 
 
 Secretary of State and the Foreign Minister a little bit.
 
In fact, the main headline that we're seeing on state media here it was a meeting on the go as they said. Of course we know it lasted about 10 
 
 minutes. Nevertheless, Secretary State Blinken said that he did raise some serious concerns for the United States. Among them of course the fate of 
 
 Paul Whelan whom the U.S. says is wrongfully detained here in Russia, saying that there was a substantial proposal on the table.
 
But then, of course, those two key things, one of them being the New START Treaty, obviously Russia has suspended its participation. The U.S. said it 
 
 called Russia out on that. And one of the things that Secretary of State Blinken said is that he urged the Russians to get back into compliance with 
 
 that treaty.
 
The Russians, of course, have a big issue with some of the inspections that are supposed to be part of that treaty. And then, of course, the war in 
 
 Ukraine and that's a point that Secretary of State Blinken then later made in his press conference as well.
 
But from the Russian perspective, Becky, they are downplaying all that they're just saying it was a short meeting it happened on the sidelines, 
 
 there was no agreement reached. And they didn't really go into detail as to what was exactly said. They didn't refute anything that the U.S. has put 
 
 out there at Secretary of State Blinken put out there.
 
But they certainly aren't offering very much in the details except for them it's very important to point out that it was the U.S. side that wanted this 
 
 meeting to take place. Of course, while it was short while it was on the sidelines and still is a key meeting the first time that the two diplomats 
 
 meet really since Geneva in January of 2022, before the war in Ukraine even started so that alone makes all this pretty important, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Fred scarce detail as well on this raid in inverted commas in Bryansk. President Putin blaming Neo Nazis, what do we know at this stage?
 
PLEITGEN: Yes, first of all, you're absolutely right. There are scarce details of it. But the Russians are taking this extremely seriously. They 
 
 do say that there was an incursion and there was a video that then surfaced of a group of Russian volunteers.
 
In fact calling themselves the Russian volunteer corps in front of a government building in the border area between Russia and Ukraine on the 
 
 Russian side, saying that they had infiltrated that area said they weren't there to harm civilians.
 
However, the Russians are portraying that very differently. They say that two civilians were killed in that raid in one case, they said this group 
 
 opened fire on an SUV that was driving down the street killing one of those on board that also a young boy was hurt as well, even though those injuries 
 
 aren't life threatening.
 
And Vladimir Putin who by the way he canceled a trip to Southern Russia because of this and said he's being regularly updated by his top security 
 
 officials. He blamed when he called Ukrainian Neo Nazis for this so here's what he said.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT: They're protecting people from Neo Nazis and terrorists from those who tortured and killed people in the Donbas for 
 
 eight years those who killed - in Moscow those who committed another terrorist act, another crime. They infiltrated the border territory and 
 
 opened fire on civilians. They saw it was a civilian car. They saw there were civilians and children sitting there, an ordinary Niva an open fire on 
 
 them.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PLEITGEN: When he speaks about an ordinary Niva, you obviously mean a Lada Niva, which is a service Soviet era SUV small car. So as you can see 
 
 Vladimir Putin extremely angry. He also said that he would stamp out as you said these terrorists.
 
The latest that we're getting Becky and I just got an update a couple of minutes ago, the Russians are saying situation there is now under control. 
 
 Apparently, there's an operation there going on by the Border Service by the FSB to see whether or not there's any unexploded devices still out 
 
 there.
 
But the Russians, obviously extremely angry about all this and as you mentioned, the Ukrainians are saying they had nothing to do with a saying 
 
 that if anything, it was Russian partisans that coming from top level Ukrainian politicians, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Frederik Pleitgen in Moscow. Let's get you to Kylie Atwood in Washington. What are you hearing from your sources there?
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, of course, it's significant that this happened - that this meeting happened as you were 
 
 talking about with Fred there. It's the first time that these top diplomats from the U.S. and Russia have met since before the war actually began their 
 
 last meeting in January of 2022.
 
So the fact that the Secretary of State took the initiative here, according to a U.S. official, he was the one who approached Lavrov and delivered some 
 
 clear messages in person is quite significant. We know that of the things that he rose was the need to for Russia to end its war of aggression.
 
We also know that he brought up Paul Whelan, who's an American who has been wrongfully detained in Russia for more than four years now. He said that 
 
 there's actually a significant serious proposal that the United States has put on the table and he urged Russia to accept it. That's the first that 
 
 we've heard that there's actually a tangible proposal that the United States has put on the table with Russia to try and secure Paul Whelan's 
 
 release.
 
And then the third thing, of course, that he touched on was Russia recently suspending participation in the New START Treaty, listen to what he 
 
 described himself as saying to Foreign Minister Lavrov on that topic.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: Mutual compliance is in the interest of both our countries. It's also what people around the world 
 
 expect from us as nuclear powers. I told the Foreign Minister that no matter what else is happening in the world or in our relationship. The 
 
 United States will always be ready to engage and act on strategic arms control, just as the United States and the Soviet Union did even at the 
 
 height of the Cold War.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ATWOOD: And it's also significant to note that just yesterday Blinken said that he had no plans to meet with Lavrov while they were both in India for 
 
 this G20 Foreign Ministers Meeting. So it's clear that this sort of came together last minute, it was only about a 10 minute meeting.
 
ANDERSON: Kylie, thank you! Well, on the ground Ukraine's military says its forces will remain in Bakhmut for now and military officials so suggest 
 
 that Russian forces are advancing within the city which has been on the frontlines of course for weeks.
 
The Wagner Group of founder shared this video that he says shows his fighters in the city CNN geo-located the video to just east of Bakhmut. 
 
 Yevgeny Prigozhin has area voiced skepticism that Ukraine will withdraw telling Russian media Ukraine's military is moving reserves to the area. 
 
 Well, Kyiv fears if Bakhmut is captured Russian troops will move in and seize nearby towns and villages. My colleague Alex Marquardt reports from 
 
 one of those towns.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (on camera): This is the road on the way to Bakhmut cars, military vehicles bombing up and down this road going to 
 
 and from the front. You see this armored vehicle right here the V-sign for victory.
 
There are still some people here not too many, but some of these hearty residents have stayed behind. This is the shop of - who is here grilling 
 
 meats held. He actually fled from Bakhmut two months ago and has opened up the shop selling basics like bananas, beetroot and candles.
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
MARQUARDT (on camera): We just met whose daughter is still in Bakhmut. One of the thousands of people there who have been asked to evacuate, but are 
 
 still in the city amid this incredible fighting. You can see that they put up wood there to protect those windows so much destruction in this town. We 
 
 were just farther in the center of town is called Chasiv Yar.
 
This is one town over from Bakhmut with a large group of people at a bus stop waiting for a water delivery that never came. Every few moments you 
 
 can hear explosions, the sound of what we believe to be outgoing artillery fire, Ukrainians firing at Russian positions. We spoke with an older woman 
 
 named Valentina, who said that there's so much flying over their heads, that she is scared all the time those they are so close to the Russia 
 
 positions. That's more outgoing artillery fire.
 
They're so close to the Russian positions that they can walk there. We also spoke with some Ukrainian soldiers like these ones who man, one of those 
 
 artillery positions. They told us that there has been no order to pull back from Bakhmut that they're fighting because if they give up Bakhmut than 
 
 this town, Chasiv Yar, this would be next.
 
And that is what everyone is thinking now that if Russia were to take Bakhmut, that they would have another foothold in this region from which to 
 
 try to push farther into eastern Ukraine. Alex Marquardt, CNN in Chasiv Yar.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, just ahead, Greece releases an audio recording revealing a grievous human error as outrage grows over what was a devastating train 
 
 crash. We'll be live in that disaster area for you up next. And schoolgirls getting sick by the hundreds; Iran is seeking answers in to what is a 
 
 mysterious spate of illnesses are these girls being poisoned, more on that after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: You're watching "Connect the World", I'm Becky Anderson. Outrage growing in Greece serves the country's deadliest rail crash in living 
 
 memory. Fire officials say at least 46 were killed in Tuesday's head on collision between two trains. This video shows the moment when they 
 
 crashed. And there is also an audio recording now. CNN's Nada Bashir is live for as at the scene in Tempi, Nada?
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Well, Becky, this audio recording is really one that is going to cause shock across the country. We've already learned from 
 
 the prime minister that this was largely caused as a result of what he described as tragic human error. And now this dispatch recording really 
 
 shows the extent of that human error. In that recording you can hear the station master being asked by a train driver whether he should ignore a red 
 
 warning signal.
 
The station master tells him to proceed to go ahead and later on in that recording a second employee asked him whether the train should switch 
 
 tracks. However, the station master tells the train to proceed on those tracks.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
BASHIR: And shortly after that recording, those two trains collided shortly after midnight. Now, of course, there is real anger here in Greece over the 
 
 fact that this was caused by human error. Now, this has really brought into question the safety measures in place, whether there's mechanisms that are 
 
 supposed to be there in place as a safety net, in cases of human error, whether they really are up to scratch. And at this stage, the investigation 
 
 is still very much ongoing.
 
The station master heard in that voice recording has now been detained and charged with causing mass deaths and grievous bodily harm as a result of 
 
 negligence. And you can see behind me that negligence has had disastrous consequences. The first two carriages of this train completely obliterated, 
 
 they were engulfed in flames.
 
The third carriage behind me derailed and is now on its side. There have been dozens of deaths, dozens more injured and still in hospital, including 
 
 those in intensive care some in a critical condition. And according to local hospital officials, many of those involved in the collision were 
 
 young people.
 
Now of course, there have been questions around the safety measures across the country's rail system, which is comparatively weaker than its European 
 
 neighbors, the transport minister himself going too fast to step down from his position. He said that this was a sign of respect to those who lost 
 
 their lives.
 
But also conceded that the safety measures here in Greece simply aren't up to the standard one would expect in the 21st century. And of course, this 
 
 has drawn a major backlash. There was anger and frustration across the country. We've seen protests taking place in the capitol in Athens. We've 
 
 seen demonstrators clashing with police now railway workers, Metro workers also going on strike.
 
So, this has been a real moment of anger directed towards the government a real reckoning for the government and a reminder, of course of the pressure 
 
 that is mounting now on the government to take tougher action. The prime minister says he will do everything to ensure that something like this 
 
 never happens again, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Nada Bashir is on the scene for you in Tempi in Greece. Nada, thank you! Let's get you up to speed on some of the other stories that are 
 
 on our radar right now. And U.S. intelligence could not find the link between the mysterious sickness known as the Havana syndrome and the 
 
 nation's foreign adversaries.
 
In 2016, American diplomats in Cuba's capital began complaining of dizziness and bad headaches. Hundreds of cases among U.S. government 
 
 employees and their families have since been reported.
 
Well, the Biden Administration has approved a potential arms sale to Taiwan the self-rule democratic guidance that could get more than $600 million 
 
 worth of weapons including missiles, the F-16 fighter jets like these. Beijing has voiced its opposition to the deal.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAO NING, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON: China urges the U.S. to abide by the one China principle and the provisions of the three China U.S. 
 
 joint communiques. Stop arms sales to Taiwan and U.S. Taiwan military ties and stop creating tensions in the Taiwan Strait. China will continue to 
 
 take resolute and forceful measures to firmly defend its serenity and security interests.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON: Well, the U.S. and UK say these weapons were being smuggled from Iran and may have been headed to Yemen. They were seized from a boat near 
 
 the Gulf of Oman last week. The United States says it's the latest of several illegal Iranian weapons and drug shipments.
 
Elsewhere in Iran, what's making girls and young women sick, this is an ambulance outside of school something that you will you never wants to see. 
 
 The latest on the search for some answers is just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back, I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, you're watching "Connect the World". Look at the top headlines this hour. Protests have 
 
 erupted in Greece after Tuesday's head on collision between two trains that killed at least 46 and have left schools injured.
 
The Greek Prime Minister points to what he calls tragic human error as the main cause. Well, the top American and Russian diplomats have met face to 
 
 face for the first time since Russia invaded Ukraine. U.S. Secretary of State, Antony Blinken and the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov 
 
 meeting on the G20 side-lines in New Delhi for 10 minutes. Is Blinken using the time to demand Russia end the war release a detained American and 
 
 resumed participation in the New START Treaty.
 
Moscow says there were no negotiations during that meeting. The founder of the Wagner group in time says his fighters have moved into Bakhmut. He 
 
 shared a video of Wagner fighters waving a flag on top of a damaged building CNN geo-located the video to just east of the city.
 
The Ukrainian military official earlier suggested Russian forces have moved in but says Ukrainian forces have no imminent plans to withdraw. Well, 
 
 falling to the floor not being able to walk, shortness of breath and nausea. These are just some of the symptoms being reported by young school 
 
 girls and women across Iran.
 
Hundreds of reported getting sick over the past few months and some people suspect that they are being deliberately poisoned. Well, Iran's president 
 
 now telling his government to get to the bottom of it for more let's bring in Nima Elbagir from London. Nima, what do we know about what's going on at 
 
 present?
 
NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Becky we have been able to communicate with some school girls, 
 
 eyewitnesses, survivors and their parents. And they've told us that they are being instructed not to speak to the media. Despite that though some of 
 
 the girls bravely shared with us what the chaos was like in the aftermath of the attack, take a listen to this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It was a terrible situation. Girls had been falling on the floor and were crying. Some were unable to walk, really didn't want to 
 
 leave one another.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELBAGIR: And that was in a school in - where actually the girls told us three separate incidents had occurred where they smelled a noxious, bitter 
 
 smell. And then they reported those symptoms that you described of muscular weakness, nausea, dizziness.
 
What the girls are saying that is incredibly concerning Becky, even more so concerning is that they are linking these incidents to the protest the 
 
 anti-hijab process that some of them took part in. Many of them believe that this is a message that is being sent to them by extremists and 
 
 hardliners within the country.
 
Now, of course, we cannot prove this at this kind of remove. But when you look at the scope of these incidents, how many of them have occurred, we've 
 
 counted at least 40 and that they are across the country. It does look like these cannot possibly be isolated random incidents, Becky.
 
ANDERSON: Nima, thank you. Well, Ukraine reports another Russian attack in the city of Zaporizhzhia. Russian shells hit a residential high-rise 
 
 building killing three people and sending five to the hospital. Rescuers saved a pregnant woman pulling her out of the rubble. In time, the nuclear 
 
 plant there remains a subject of acute safety concerns, a year after Russian forces moved in. My colleague Clare Sebastian has that.
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): A year into its occupation of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Russia is making changes. 
 
 Satellite images showing the dry storage area where spent nuclear fuel is kept after being cooled, first in August last year. Then, at the end of 
 
 February, what looks like a wall or structure has appeared.
 
Russia's Atomic Energy Company Rosatom tells state media, it's building a shield to protect against Ukrainian artillery strikes. A local Russian 
 
 backed official posted this in December, calling it a protective dome.
 
PETRO KOTIN, PRESIDENT, ENERGOATOM: It's all illegal doing anything without license because it could impact nuclear and radiation safety.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice over): The Head of Ukraine's Atomic Energy Company Energoatom says it's all part of a deteriorating situation at Zaporizhzhia 
 
 that he is powerless to stop.
 
SEBASTIAN (on camera): What is the biggest risk right now when it comes to safety in the plant?
 
KOTIN: Yes, biggest risk is that we do not know what is in their hands at the moment. You can expect they can do anything, so they can continue 
 
 shelling on the plant, for example.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice over): Energoatom says Russia, which forcibly took over the plant last March, damaging several buildings in the process continues 
 
 to use it as a de facto military base. Videos surfaced last summer a military truck in one of the turbine buildings next to a reactor.
 
Last month Energoatom accused Russia of bringing hundreds of newly mobilized troops to the site before deploying them to the east. Rosatom's 
 
 own press service for the power plant denied there's any heavy military equipment on site but noted that Russia's National Guard troops Putin's 
 
 domestic security forces are guarding the plant.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm very worried about Zaporizhzhia. I'm very worried.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice over): Energoatom says the plant has been cut off from the electricity grid five times in total, leaving diesel generators the last 
 
 line of defense before catastrophe. Fighting has also come to close.
 
The IAEA reports shelling hit a building housing fresh nuclear fuel in September, and a reactor building in November. Energoatom now estimates 
 
 four and a half 1000 Ukrainian staff is left at the plant out of 11,000 before the war.
 
NICK TOMKINSON, SENIOR PARTNER, GLOBAL NUCLEAR SECURITY PARTNERS: That reduction of the number of pupils going to have a significant impact on 
 
 their ability to maintain and function sort of systems. Whether or not that security system safety systems radiation monitoring.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice over): Nuclear expert Nick Tomkinson says he is working with the Ukrainian government to try to deploy radiation mapping systems at 
 
 Zaporizhzhia and other nuclear sites.
 
TOMKINSON: One of the concerns could be that things could go missing from Zaporizhzhia, particularly some of the fuel. I'm not worrying about 
 
 mistake, what I'd be worried about was is an active decision to do something.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice over): Ukraine's nuclear power company though is worried about a slow-motion mistake, poor maintenance leading to the degradation of 
 
 the equipment on the site, including the reactors themselves currently all in various states of shutdown.
 
KOTIN: It is going to the stage, nobody knows if we will be able to operate it again. And this is just a matter of time.
 
SEBASTIAN (voice over): The Russian side says strict radiation safety standards are being observed. Hardly a consolation when 20 percent of 
 
 Ukraine's electricity supply remains hostage to this war. Clare Sebastian, CNN London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Well, you're watching "Connect the World"; up next we'll introduce you to the Arab astronauts about to make history in space.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
ANDERSON: Well, where they last that lit up the sky four astronauts headed off to the International Space Station on Thursday morning. The crew 
 
 scheduled to spend six months there, it includes astronaut Sultan Alneyadi from right here in the UAE.
 
Dubbed the Sultan space, he is the first Arab to be deployed on a long-term space mission. Alneyadi plans to fast during the holy month of Ramadan, 
 
 though he says that will be a challenge because the space station sees about 16 sunrises and sunsets each day.
 
CNN's Space Correspondent Kristin Fisher tracking the mission for us. And this is Kristin another very special moment for the Arab world, 
 
 particularly for the country that I'm here in the United Arab Emirates, the second Emirati to travel to space programs here space programs are 
 
 developing at a rapid pace. What do you make of what you're saying?
 
KRISTIN FISHER, CNN SPACE &amp; DEFENSE CORRESPONDENT: Well, Becky, I mean, you know that the United Arab Emirates has invested so much time and money over 
 
 the last decade or so to really become the leading space power in the Arab world. And so that's really what this launch last night represents.
 
You know, the UAE launched a probe to Mars that has been very successful, they're planning to launch a probe to actually land on the moon next year. 
 
 But last night, that astronaut right there, Sultan Alneyadi just became the Roosevelt to become the first astronaut from the United Arab Emirates to do 
 
 what's called a long duration spaceflight and only the second from that nation to actually fly in space.
 
And so, getting to do a long duration spaceflight is actually something that is very prestigious, very difficult, very technical. I mean, to spend 
 
 six months up there, floating in space, requires a tremendous amount of training. And this is all training that he has done over the last year or 
 
 so if not longer at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, alongside his crewmates, two NASA astronauts, and one Russian cosmonaut.
 
So, this is a very international very diverse mission, they call it crew six, to the International Space Station. It's a partnership between NASA 
 
 and SpaceX in terms of getting the astronauts there that Crew Dragon capsule launched successfully last night from the Kennedy Space Center.
 
Becky, it's going to take about 24 hours or so for those astronauts to actually dock at the International Space Station. But when they do, all 
 
 those astronauts are going to whether it really marks the beginning of their six months stay up there.
 
And we've seen what can happen when things go wrong. Those missions can often get extended to about a year. So, they say they're going to be up 
 
 there for six months. But something could happen and they could stay longer Becky.
 
ANDERSON: This was known of course without delays, but they are off the ground now six months on the ISS, what sort of work will they are carrying 
 
 out?
 
FISHER: They're mostly going to be conducting scientific experiments about 200 scientific experiments or so during the six months that they're up 
 
 there.
 
They're also going to be greeting crews from two private missions to the International Space Station, including the next mission from axiom space. 
 
 So that's something that's going to happen while they're up there. And then you also have to keep in mind that they're dealing with this issue with the 
 
 Russian Soyuz spacecraft that's currently docked to the International Space Station.
 
You might remain where they had that that coolant leak that we saw spring in the space. They essentially the Russian space agency decided that that 
 
 spacecraft was not safe to bring these astronauts back to Earth.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
FISHER: So, they have to send a replacement. But that's what I'm talking about that crew that's already up there. They were supposed to be there for 
 
 six months. But because of that Coolant Lake, their mission has now been extended to a full year.
 
So, in addition to all those experiments, Becky, they also have to kind of do some, just your basic housekeeping. This is a, you know, two decades old 
 
 space station that's up there and it's showing some signs of wear and tear and so they often have to do spacewalks to try to fix it.
 
ANDERSON: Yes. Kristin, isn't it fascinating and it's, it's so interesting to see how the private sector has really got involved in what is this sort 
 
 of new era of space travel. Thank you so much. It's always such a pleasure to have you on and speaking of man's fascinating and women's fascination 
 
 with space.
 
Kissing planets are on display in the night sky. That's what some are calling the unique positioning of Jupiter and Venus; these two planets are 
 
 passing each other in what's called a conjunction. Right now, Jupiter and Venus are the brightest objects in the sky after the moon.
 
The phenomenon started on Wednesday, but the planets continue to appear close together in the night skies. Tonight, keep your eyes peeled folks. 
 
 Wherever you are watching in the world, you are watching "Connect the World" live from Abu Dhabi. Coming up some say the gut is the brain second 
 
 body will tell you and get you a look at how one artist uses the gut to heal trauma that is after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ANDERSON: Welcome back. The Russian man opposed to the war in Ukraine is stuck in legal limbo in South Korea. He doesn't want to go back home 
 
 because he may be sent to fight in Ukraine. So, he is seeking asylum but South Korea not rolling out the red carpet for him not at all as Paula 
 
 Hancocks reports that has left him stranded at the airport for an awfully long time. Have a look at this.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): More than four months of sleeping on the floor with 50 men in a small airport room. One Russian man 
 
 waits to hear his fate, hiding his identity for fear of repercussions. He's applying for asylum in South Korea, having fled a mandatory call up in 
 
 Russia last October to fighting the war in Ukraine.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: When I heard about the mobilization, I felt terrible because I'd been at rallies protesting against the war. I knew based on the 
 
 information they have on me, anyone who opposes the war would be first to be sent to the front lines. That was my biggest fear.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): President Vladimir Putin's mass call up sparked an exodus from the country. Hundreds of thousands of men are believed to have 
 
 fled to avoid being sent to Ukraine. Leaving his wife and seven-year-old son, he boarded a flight to South Korea saying he believed he would be 
 
 accepted as it is a democratic country.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I miss my boy really badly. I can't talk about it. It's too emotional. I really miss my family.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): He would wash his laundry in an Incheon Airport bathroom saying there was no hot water for showers for the past month, 
 
 despite Seoul immigration saying there should be. He was given a hot bun and juice for lunch, chicken and rice for dinner.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): While he feels powerless to control his future. He says the alternative would be far worse.
 
HANCOCKS (on camera): What would your message be to the people who are deciding if you can stay?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'm not a draft dodger. I'm against the war and I don't want to go to war and kill people. But I am not a draft dodger.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): An important point to make he feels a South Korea has mandatory military service of its own of at least 18 months for almost 
 
 all able-bodied men most by the age of 28.
 
HANCOCKS (on camera): Do you consider yourself a victim of this war?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Of course, a year ago I had no intention of leaving and never thought I'd leave Russia.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): What he didn't realize before boarding a plane to Seoul, he says is how few refugees this country accepts. In 2019 of almost 
 
 15 and a half thousand applicants, just 79 were granted refugee status. That's half of 1 percent with just 230 receiving a permit to stay on 
 
 humanitarian grounds. He was moved this week to an immigration facility with some freedom of movement to await his fate.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANCOCKS: The Justice Ministry said this week it is appealing the decision to even allow him to apply for asylum. He says he is surprised and 
 
 disappointed by that decision. And his lawyer says that that process alone could take up to five months, then applying for refugee status could take 
 
 another one or two years. And his lawyer says based on precedents, success is not going to be easy. Paula Hancocks, CNN Seoul.
 
ANDERSON: Well, in tonight's parting shots, we take a look at the connection between body and mind. Artist Hayv Kahraman's art explores how 
 
 the key to healing from trauma lies in the gut. Now stay with me on this often referred to as the body's second brain, the gut produces an important 
 
 chemical that regulates our emotions. Her latest solo show, exploring these themes is now on at the third line gallery in Dubai, and that is where I 
 
 met her recently.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HAYV KAHRAMAN, ARTIST: I was born in Iraq in Baghdad, I lived through two wars. So, the Iran Iraq War and the first Gulf War in the early 90s, we 
 
 decided to flee. So, you know, we hired our smuggler and we had our falsified passports and we left, we fled to Sweden.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): Hayv's practice is heavily guided by that refugee experience. Her latest exhibition, gut feelings, part two at the third line 
 
 gallery in Dubai, explores the effects of trauma on the body. Expose them tangled digestive organs act as a visual metaphor, unraveling the healing 
 
 process.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Walk me through the evolution of that journey through your art.
 
KAHRAMAN: So, this work, I would say started about three years ago. I discovered that there's this foreign and parenthesis foreign bacteria that 
 
 lives in our digestive system and our gut that produces about 95, 97 percent of serotonin. Serotonin is the happy hormone, right? This is the 
 
 hormone that makes us feel joy in us.
 
So, the gut kind of became a tool or a methodology to work through these various ideas. And really, ultimately, it's a way to heal and to repair. 
 
 You know, when I was researching this, I thought, OK, how can I literally work with microbes? And this is where the torshi came in.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is torshi. So, it's, it's a fermented beet, and turnips, and it contains a lot of amazing bacteria for your gut.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): And you use torshi, in the gut feelings part two, and just explain how.
 
KAHRAMAN: Yes, so this is actually painted with torshi. So, this is my efforts and collaborating with these bacteria. What I really wanted to 
 
 focus on is that, you know the symbiotic relationship between my body and the bacteria. So, I wanted to have that kind of contamination, right. So it 
 
 was it did become quite performative and healing and cathartic.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): There is a certain tension over exactly who's in control of the healing process evident in her work.
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Is this you?
 
KAHRAMAN: Yes or no. So, this figure is I think she's a representation of a collective, it's not a self-portrait, it's a multitude of stories of 
 
 narratives of persons. I want us to think in more collaborative terms.
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
ANDERSON (on camera): Do you expect to get to the point at which you no longer represent trauma in your work?
 
KAHRAMAN: I don't know if that's possible. No, and I think ultimately, you know, what I came to understand if it's not really about getting to a 
 
 place, it's about the process of getting there, right. And it's messy, and it's painful. But like, we have to somehow embrace it. That's and that's 
 
 what I came to learn from making this.
 
ANDERSON (voice over): One artist's intimate way of portraying the connection between body and mind.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON: Thanks for watching. I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:00:00]
 
END