Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: Soon, Trump Heads To Historic Court Appearance In Miami; Trump Leaving Doral, Heading To Federal Court; Interview With Mayor Francis Suarez (R-Miami) On Trump Charges & Security; Trump Arrives At Federal Court In Miami. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired June 13, 2023 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:30:00]
 
KAREN FRIEDMAN AGNIFILO, CNN LEGAL ANALYST: I'm sure he's going to want to relitigate what Howell did, what -- the D.C. judge, when this was in a D.C. grand jury. Former Chief Judge Howell made a ruling that his lawyer, Evan Corcoran, could pierce the attorney-client privilege -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: The notes of Evan Corcoran, which were taken contemporaneously, are critical so -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
AGNIFILO: Yes, they're all over this indictment. 
 
The reason Jack Smith was able to get those notes and those statements was because they said that there was a crime of fraud exception to the attorney-client privilege.
 
And so that -- though that was done in the civil -- that was done prior in the grand jury stage.
 
And at this point, you know, Judge Cannon or whoever the judge is going to be here in Florida, she's going to be able to relook at that and relitigate that.
 
And Trump might appeal some of these rulings and want to go up to the Supreme Court. I think he's going to do everything he can to try to use the legal process to delay this so that he doesn't have a trial in this case. 
 
COOPER: Laura, do you still think it's possible it would happen before the election? 
 
LAURA COATES, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: There's one hand what would be prudent for the average defendant, who doesn't know whether they have a friendly jury, doesn't know whether the jury is going to be likely to have more than one or even one person on their side. 
 
In this particular issue -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COOPER: Which this -- this is tape moments ago. This is the former president getting into his vehicle. 
 
COATES: And this instance, it might be that Donald Trump would be more likely or willing to have a trial in front of this particular jury because you would hope for an acquittal. 
 
Having said that, Jack Smith say they want to have a speedy trial, which is about 70 days. That puts you in August and also puts you before the Manhattan D.A.'s office indictment case. That could happen in March. 
 
The DOJ, obviously, has to think about not wanting to interfere or the perception of interfering with an election. And at a time like this when the critical talking points already suggest they are, you have this issue. 
 
COOPER: Van Jones, it's extraordinary. There we see the former president now getting into the vehicle. This is the second time we have seen him, seen this play out. 
 
VAN JONES, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: You're seeing one image there, but two different interpretations. To some people, they're seeing a persecuted hero going to stand up to the system that's that trying to crush their movement. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COOPER: And this is live images of his motorcade leaving Doral. 
 
JONES: To others, the president is a dangerous scofflaw who stole a bunch of federal documents. And if anybody else stole them, they would be in jail by now. 
 
That's the division. You can be looking at one picture and see two different scenes playing out. 
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Looks like there's a handful of people gathered up there outside of Doral and a handful of people downtown. Not the crush of Trump supporters maybe that some had predicted. 
 
Politically, Anderson, one of the most difficult things I think for Republicans to reconcile are Donald Trump's 2016 statements about Hillary Clinton and what's happening right now. 
 
In 2016, he assailed Hillary Clinton for her mishandling of classified information. No one will be above the law he said, and it disqualifies her from the presidency. The tape will be rolled time and time and time again.
 
And so legal, I don't know what's going to happen with this court or when the trial is going to be. I just know that tape right there is going to be played so much, so much. DAVID URBAN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Scott and I were discussing
 
 prior to this, prior to coming on air. There's so much video out there of the former president talking about this, talking about then- Secretary of State Clinton's misuse of her e-mail server and how no one is above the law.
 
And then, in 2018, him signing a law making the mishandling of classified or secret material, raising it from a misdemeanor to a felony and there was such emphasis put on that.
 
And now kind of flip it around here. Again, we talked about this before, the irony of it all, the "lock her up," right? Again, we're rolling, you know, rolling to the federal courthouse here, as opposed to the courthouse in Manhattan, to lock him up. Right? So there's a great deal of irony. 
 
And I would echo Van. Van has a good point, too. Half of America is rejoicing, and half of America is wringing their hands saying, if it wasn't for Donald Trump, that would be me in that car getting locked up, right? 
 
It's amazing how 50 percent of our country can see the same images, the same fact pattern and view it so differently than the other 50 percent. 
 
COATES: This imagery is so powerful. First of all, look at the imagery of everything stopping while he is on his way to court. 
 
If you are a Republican nominee or candidate hopeful, you're watching everything stop to address what's happening with the presumptive head of the GOP and frontrunner. 
 
You're also seeing taxpayer resources being used to actually provide and transport a former president to a federal courthouse. 
 
A lot of this, as Chris Christie spoke about last night, is all about a self-inflicted wound. Because we need not be here had he turned the documents in. 
 
And you have all along this route, you've got this image of what -- we remember following a white Bronco when it was the O.J. trial, totally different. 
 <br>[13:35:07]
 
This is now the instance of a former president of the United States.
 
And remember, this is three dozen federal charges about documents that are alleged to be government and sensitive defense information. It's astonishing, this moment. 
 
URBAN: I would just think back to Laura's point going to the federal court, and there's a lot of talk about the trial coming up and everything.
 
You know, I think that there's a better than good chance, better than 50 percent chance this trial is held in Palm Beach County, that Donald Trump does -- you'll get one person on the jury to say I don't think he's guilty. 
 
COOPER: It has to be a unanimous jury. 
 
URBAN: Yes, I believe so.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
URBAN: So you'll find one person you will put beyond a reasonable doubt, a pretty high standard. You know, you realize it's a pretty high standard. And the defense will make that clear.
 
And you know, we've heard from a bunch of lawyers. There's a lot under the Presidential Records Act and the president's power to declassify documents that is kind of, you know, the purview of constitutional lawyers and scholars that's going to be litigated here. 
 
We'll see. One person, not a big lift. 
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT &amp; INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: Just an interesting set of images. With all the ironies, we talk about, David Urban has ridden in the president's limousine with Donald Trump in a much bigger motorcade when he was in office. 
 
I have led that motorcade when I was with the New York City Police Department through the city a number of times. 
 
And he is being driven to meet with FBI agents who will arrest him, FBI agents who work for Christopher Wray, the FBI director, he appointed as his handpicked leader after he fired Director Comey. 
 
He's going to go through a booking process as an arrestee in the Office of the U.S. Marshal, who he appointed, United States marshal, when he was president. 
 
This is going to be a very strange day for Donald Trump in one regard as it would be for anybody, and a bit of a familiar process in that this is the second time he's been arrested this spring, the first time on state charges.
 
As this motorcade makes its way to the federal courthouse where a couple of hundred people, and that crowd may have grown slightly since then, but we understand a couple hundred people from the Miami P.D., who are supporters to cheer him on, as he passes by.
 
And goes directly into the garage, across the garage to a freight elevator. A freight elevator that will take him to the U.S. Marshals' Office where the FBI will affect that arrest. 
 
JONES: The motorcade is smaller than it was in days past. These crowds are going to be smaller. You know, there are going to be tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands.
 
First of all, I don't think people understand how difficult it is to pull off a protest in the middle of a workday, let alone when it's 8,000 degrees outside in Miami. 
 
It shows you how deliberate January 6th was. It is very hard to move that many people. You need buses. You need organizers. You need commands. What you saw with January 6th, is not easy to replicate. 
 
You can see, he's just as popular as he was. You have very few people there. It shows you that January 6th was a very, very deliberate, coordinated attack. This is going to be something that's going to be easier to maintain. 
 
Three things you're not going to see today, you're not going to see these huge crowds. Hopefully, we won't see any violence. You will not see any new lawyers on this case because (INAUDIBLE). 
 
COATES: On that point, about the January 6th, though, we have yet to hear from Jack Smith, just so everyone is aware, of that report or of the conclusions of that investigation. 
 
We're still waiting, which is again, another legal peril that is facing Donald Trump at this point in time. We don't yet have that information.
 
But just to unpack one term -- we've been talking about this, Karen and I --about the term "arrest." 
 
When we're talking about arrest, it's not as if we're going to see a perp walk, so to speak, of Donald Trump, handcuffed behind his back, coming out of a squad car, not have his head bumping the edge of the door. No. 
 
Arrest, legally, will just mean that he's in the custody of the United States government, and he is not free to leave. 
 
Which also means that all the custodial rights will attach to him. Cue your "law and order" reference points about what he's entitled to say or not to say, lawyers being appointed. He has private counsel.
 
But also, the statements he's now making would more likely to be used against him. That's ahead in this so-called arrest. 
 
JENNINGS: In terms of his schedule today, the single most important thing he may do today in order to get out of this is what he's going to do tonight when he goes back to Bedminster and has a $2 million fundraiser with a bunch of high-dollar donors and donors. 
 <br>[13:39:59]
 
If this trial gets pushed off beyond the election in 2024, if he gets re-elected president of the United States, he will not stand trial for this matter. 
 
So it may be that what's happening here today is compelling. But tonight, when he goes off to resume his campaign, that might be his best strategy. Just win. Just get re-elected. 
 
Because it might be your best bet to get out of something when the evidence is so damming. 
 
COOPER: How much of his decision to run do you think involved this calculus? 
 
JENNINGS: I mean, David -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
URBAN: Look, I would say the president, you know, the die was cast, so to speak, on January 20th, of the last election. When Joe Biden was sworn in and Donald Trump stood there and watched that take place. 
 
I mean, he was going to run again. There's no doubt in my mind the former president was going to run again. Just as there's no doubt in anyone's mind that Joe Biden was going to run against Donald Trump no matter what. 
 
These are kind of, you know, they're both -- see themselves as the only person who could take the other one out. 
 
COOPER: So far, we have heard very little from Republican presidential candidates, certainly Republican members of Congress, about the actual charges themselves. 
 
Much of the talking points have been about -- I mean we're starting to hear more, but a lot of the talking points have really just focused on, you know, Hillary Clinton's e-mail, Hunter Biden investigation, which is an ongoing investigation in Delaware with a Trump appointed prosecutor.
 
There's not a lot of folks who want to talk about the charges. 
 
JENNINGS: Well, they're looking for a political exoneration because they know it's unlikely they will get to a legal exoneration any time in the near future. 
 
I did think it was noteworthy, on our "INSIDE POLITICS" show today that Republican Congressman Ken Buck told Dana Bash, quote, "I would not feel comfortable with a convicted felon in the White House."
 
And he pointed to all of Trump's attacks against Hillary Clinton. And Buck said his words have set the standard. 
 
So when you start to get into the substance of this and what could be, you are starting to see a few people express some level -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
URBAN: In the Senate as well, you know, with Senators Thune and Cornyn and others in the Senate, right? You have Murkowski and folks you suspect -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
JONES: You would just think that somebody in the Republican Party would give a dam about the lives that are now at risk. You have people risking their lives to get sensitive information to
 
 America's government, to keep us safe, people who we don't know now if they've been exposed, if the methods and means have been exposed. 
 
We don't he know what is happening to human beings who left their families and doing the best they can to keep us safe because a president of the United States stole a bunch of documents and was hiding them in the restroom of a building. That's not right. 
 
To the extent that the Republican Party used to be a party that cared about law and order, that cared about national security, you know, this kind of invasion of the body snatchers where, all of a sudden, these people just don't care about the lives that are at risk to me is appalling. 
 
COOPER: I want to go back to Kaitlan who is near the courthouse in Miami. 
 
Kaitlan?
 
KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN ANCHOR, "CNN PRIMETIME": Yes. We're sitting outside the courthouse, Anderson, waiting on the former president to arrive here. 
 
As we are waiting on his arrival, I should note he has posted many times online today, including just a short while ago, calling this, quote, "One of the saddest days in the history of our country." Saying that the U.S. is, quote, "a nation in decline." 
 
Joining me now here outside of the courthouse is the Republican mayor of Miami, Mayor Suarez. 
 
Thank you so much for being here. 
 
I want to ask you about the former president and what he said. 
 
But quickly, on the security situation, as we're seeing here, do you believe that there is appropriate security here for the protesters and counter-protesters we've seen surrounding the courthouse today? 
 
MAYOR FRANCIS SUAREZ (R-MIAMI): I do. We've been socializing with our federal partners who are the custodians of the building. Obviously, with Miami-Dade County as well. 
 
So far, we've seen people exercise their constitutional right, which people have died for in this country. 
 
From my perspective, things have been peaceful. Every once in a while, you have one or two people that may become disrespectful, but that hasn't gone beyond disrespect to violence or -- as far as I know, no arrests so far. 
 
We're hopeful that this incident finishes without any major provocations or without any major incidents and everyone can go home and move on. 
 
COLLINS: Yes. We all hope for that, obviously. 
 
On what you heard the former president said there, calling it one of the saddest days in our nation's history, saying the U.S. is a nation in decline, do you agree with that? 
 
SUAREZ: I think the nation is in decline right now. I think Joe Biden's America is an America where the poor are getting poorer, where America is getting weaker, and where, if we keep on the same trajectory, China may be the only lone superpower in the future. 
 
So that is an America that worries me.
 
COLLINS: But he's not talking about that. He's talking about because he's on his way to this courthouse and his arraignment. 
 
SUAREZ: Sure. Sure. And you know, I think his supporters who are here feel a grievance. They feel there isn't a fair administration of justice. They feels sometimes that the press is not fair. 
 <br>[13:45:05]
 
That's their perspective. They have the right to their perspective. 
 
My job as mayor is to make sure they can exercise their constitutional rights in a way that doesn't put anybody in harm's way or jeopardize anyone. 
 
COLLINS: You are the mayor, but you're also a prominent Republican in this nation. You were re-elected with about 80 percent of the vote. 
 
When it comes to this indictment itself, and you look at it and why the former president is going to be here today, do you believe a lot of that was self-inflicted? 
 
SUAREZ: I've heard people say that. I can't speak for him and why he decides to do things or not do things. 
 
What I can say is there is a perception that the law isn't being applied equally to both sides of the political spectrum. That's a perception that exists. 
 
An erosion of our institutions. And I think that's something that worries me as a Republican and worries me as an American. I think we have to get back to a positive conversation a unifying conversation. 
 
When you talk about 80 percent, I want to spend 80 percent of my time discussing things we agree on, that our tomorrow should be better than yesterday, we should live in peace and security. 
 
Those are the things, as Americans, we all agree on. Once the conversation gets back to that, I think our country is going to be a lot healthier. 
 
COLLINS: Chris Christie made the point last night in a town hall with Anderson Cooper that a lot of Republicans, a lot of other members of your party are blaming the Justice Department and prosecutors but not directing that at Trump. 
 
If he had just cooperated, if he had just given back the documents, none of this would be happening. 
 
SUAREZ: You know, we keep talking about it and I think what happens is, we're giving the former president so much volume. If things continue on the path they are, if the decisions that are being made continue to be made in the way they're being, he might be the nominee. 
 
I think it's time to have -- to sort of turn the page, have a different conversation about prosperity for our country.
 
A conversation about where the dynamic competitive threats, where they are going to come from and how do we're going to position ourselves as a country to confront those.
 
And stop, you know, sort of buying into what our enemies are doing, which is trying to divide us. 
 
COLLINS: Do you think if he did store national security secrets in a bathroom at Mar-a-Lago that he should be held accountable? 
 
SUAREZ: I think anybody who misuses or misplaces classified documents should be held accountable at some level. But we've seen reports of the former vice president, we've seen reports of the former vice president -- the president was a former vice president in time.
 
And I think what frustrates people, they don't see the same aggressive prosecution when there are accusations against people from different parties. 
 
I would rather not be having this conversation. I'd rather not be here as mayor trying to protect my city and our buildings, you know -- this is not a healthy conversation for our country. 
 
And it's not one that I think is going to lead to success for our country. That's really what I'm focused on. 
 
COLLINS: But there are major differences. And there is a special counsel also investigating President Biden's handling of classified documents. 
 
On you yourself, as I noted you are a prominent Republican in your party, you are going out to the Reagan Library on Thursday to give a speech. Is that going to be a presidential announcement, a campaign? 
 
SUAREZ: You have to stay tuned. I would love for you to watch it. It's going to be at 6:00 p.m. Pacific time. 
 
It's going to lay out a bold vision for the future of the country. I'll finally make my decision known publicly. 
 
Hopefully if I do decide to run, it's starting a new chapter, a new conversation of a new kind of leader who looks a little different, speaks a little different, has different experience. But can inspire people and get people to understand that there is aspirational positivity that can take our country in a good way forward. 
 
COLLINS: I should note that four other candidates who are now in the race also spoke at the Reagan Library before announcing their presidential campaigns. We will stay tuned to see what you say. 
 
Mayor Suarez, thank you so much. 
 
SUAREZ: Thank you so much. 
 
COLLINS: Jake, you hear there, he is the mayor here. We were talking about the security protocols earlier, about what that looks like here, as we were seeing some of the former president's supporters gather outside the courthouse. 
 
So far, they say that situation has remained overall pretty calm. 
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: That's good news. 
 
Let's go to Shimon Prokupecz, who is outside the courthouse in Miami and can give us the latest on-the-ground view of the security situation. 
 
Shimon, what are you seeing? 
 
SHIMON PROKUPECZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME &amp; JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: So, Jake, we're standing on the corner where everyone here from law enforcement to some of the supporters have now gathered as they get ready for the former president to drive this way and enter the courthouse. 
 
We expect this to happen at any minute. As you can see now, some of the highway patrol, the motorcycles are here. This was not here earlier. 
 
On the other side we have the street closed as well, as everyone here at this point is just waiting -- I'm trying to look and see if I can see the motorcade. At some point, drive up this block. The SUVs are coming. Up this block. 
 
And, Jake, what's going to happen is, he's going to make a left here and head right into the courthouse there. You can see in our shot here, there are some officers, Secret Service agents, and U.S. Marshals.
 <br>[13:49:58]
 
That is where we believe he's going to drive down and into that building where he will begin the process of being placed under arrest and then the arraignment. 
 
At any point now, we should see him, Jake, drive by. We can hear the sirens as they are approaching here and about to make this turn here where law enforcement, as you can see behind me, Jake, has shut the street down. And we see some of the law enforcement here now, Jake, driving in. You can see -- and there is one of the -- here is the motorcade now -- Jake? 
 
(CHEERING)
 
TAPPER: Shimon, describe the crowd as you can discern their mood and their actions. From our view thousands of miles away, it looks like a relatively peaceful crowd. 
 
PROKUPECZ: Yes, it is a relatively -- it's been peaceful, Jake. You're right, absolutely right. It's a peaceful crowd. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
TAPPER: We just saw something going on there. 
 
PROKUPECZ: Yes. 
 
TAPPER: The police are pushing away somebody who was dressed kind of like -- as a cartoon prisoner with a sign that says, "Lock him up." 
 
But he got on the street, I think was the issue there, and the police came and pushed him aside, although it didn't look like a tremendously violent confrontation. 
 
Sorry, Shimon, go ahead. 
 
PROKUPECZ: Yes, because what's happening here is that people have been able to just stand here. We've been talking about the barricades, there not being any of those metal barricades to keep people from running into the street. 
 
That's exactly what happened here. People can run freely. All we have really are the officers who are standing around trying to keep people back. 
 
But now the former president, Donald Trump, is inside the federal building where he will be placed under arrest, Jake, where he will be taken in, processed, as we've been talking about, the finger printing, the other things that they do in the process and so now we wait for his appearance -- Jake? 
 
TAPPER: All right. Shimon Prokupecz, thank you so much. 
 
As we watch these images let's chat with my panel here. 
 
Dana Bash, I mean, we should just take a moment here. This is a historic day and not in the good sense. This is the second time a former president, Donald John Trump, has been arrested and arraigned. The first time it's on federal charges. 
 
DANA BASH, CNN CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT: All of the swirling politics, all of the back and forth that defend him, not defend him. You're exactly right. That is all maybe for this moment important to put aside and to mark the history. That this is something that they will be learning about in history
 
 books for a very, very long time, forever. And as you said, not in a good way. 
 
TAPPER: Not in a good way. 
 
Jamie Gangel, truly, an ugly moment given the seriousness of the offenses that Donald Trump is accused of committing, the gravity of the charges, the evidence arraigned -- the evidence in the indictment, the evidence allayed against him. 
 
You talk to Republicans who are not in the thrall of MAGA -- the former Attorney General Bill Barr, who was very supportive of Trump under many accusations but not in this one -- talking about the gravity of these allegations.
 
Bill Barr saying, if half of what's in the indictment is true, it's horrible for Donald Trump. 
 
Obviously, a Republican presidential rival, but Chris Christie, also a former ally of Trump and a former U.S. attorney, talking about how Donald Trump brought this all on himself. 
 
It is, in a lot of ways -- I mean, it's good to have a system of government where no one is above the law. But in a lot of ways, this is a very sad moment in American history. 
 
JAMIE GANGEL, CNN SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely. To quote Bill Barr, he said, "If even half of it is true, he's toast." That is someone who used to be a loyal ally of Trump's. 
 
You know, to Dana's point, yes, this is historic. And to your point, sad. But I think we also have to talk about the big picture context. 
 
This is not the only thing that Donald Trump is facing. We had the charges in New York, that arrest and arraignment two months ago. We have the special counsel is also investigating him for January 6th. 
 
We, I think, expect something to happen in Georgia at the Fulton County investigation, maybe in August. 
 
I was struck by two things today. One is that the surreal part is we've done this before. This is now oddly normal for us. We have seen Donald Trump taken in, arrested and arraigned. 
 
The other thing to me was the difference in security between Florida and New York. In New York, they locked down lower Manhattan. You know, luckily the crowds don't seem to be thousands and seem to be pretty well-behaved.
 <br>[13:55:00]
 
But, you know, considering what we were hearing last night, the security seems -- I mean, Andy, you can speak to this. It just doesn't look like very much security. TAPPER: Let me -- before we do that, let me jump to John Miller to
 
 talk to us right now about what exactly is going on inside that building. 
 
John? 
 
MILLER: So right now, the president would be going through the garage into the freight elevator. He will be going with his Secret Service detail, which has him under protection.
 
But there's going to be a moment, certain, and it could be in that elevator or it could be up in the U.S. Marshalls' Office, where he's going to be approached by the two FBI agents who are technically arresting him on all these charges in the name of the U.S. government.
 
And at that point, the Secret Service takes a step back because he is no longer their protectee in a sense. 
 
He is in the custody of the FBI until such time a federal magistrate, at the end of this arraignment -- and it's entirely likely that they will say you're free to go and these are the following conditions, which are probably just going to be you have to return to court. 
 
In between, he will be -- he will be fingerprinted with the electronic scan and those prints will be run against the records and entered in.
 
We are told by Kaitlan Collins that the procedure of taking a DNA swab from his mouth with a Q-Tip, which is the procedure for all federal arrestees, is going to be skipped in this case. We are not sure why. 
 
A photograph of him will be uploaded into the system. It will be an open-source photograph. They are not going to take a formal mugshot because there are plenty of pictures of him available to put in that record.
 
And then there will be a brief holding time for the magistrate to get ready and then he and his team will go to that courtroom where he will be represented by his defense lawyers, enter that plea, and the rest will unfold on the record. 
 
What I described as the part that nobody is going to see, also no one will see in the courtroom because there are no cameras allowed, nor recording devices, no telephones. But there will be reporters and sketch artists and we will hear after the hearing what occurred. 
 
TAPPER: Right. But Florida does not have the same kind of Sunshine Laws that other states do when it comes to cameras in the courtroom. 
 
MILLER: Well, this is federal court. 
 
TAPPER: It doesn't matter one way or the other? 
 
MILLER: Exactly. 
 
TAPPER: OK.
 
MILLER: Federal court, on a national basis, is still no cameras and no recording, except in the Supreme Court where they will do audio. 
 
TAPPER: John, let me ask you, first of all, when you say electronic fingerprinting, that, of course, means that they don't have the black ink that used to happen or maybe still does happen in some parts of the country? 
 
MILLER: Yes, so they will not be rolling his fingers on the ink pad and then rolling each one on a fingerprint card. 
 
But they will do the electronic capture when he puts his hand on that glass piece with the separators for the fingers and that will be uploaded into the system and the system will then run that. 
 
Now, the system is automatic. It's going to run that to see is he wanted in any other states for any other crimes. They're going to run his fingerprints. 
 
In this case, that's just a procedure because he's an arrestee and they have to record those prints and get his information. 
 
There is a form they fill out that says name, occupation, you know, any other arrests, which, in this case, there is one, as we all know, in a New York county for the -- for the hush money case that the Manhattan district attorney brought. 
 
They will get through that form. And then they will tell the court when they're complete and it will move forward. 
 
TAPPER: John, one last question. You talked about how, according to Kaitlan Collins' reporting -- and I'm going to go to her in one second.
 
But you talk about how there is not going to be a swab for DNA. I can't really see a need for that. He is not charged for any crime -- I understand it would be standard procedure, but he is not charged with any crime that would require DNA, that's relevant to DNA. Am I wrong? 
 
MILLER: Well, I mean, that's an open question. First of all, it's procedure. But then again, so would be obtaining a mugshot. Certain procedures are being adjusted here.
 
But if you look at a documents case about who handled what documents, who touched what documents, you know, DNA actually could be a factor there. 
 
That's not how this case is structured, as scientific. It's about obstruction and the movement of the documents and messages between him and others where, you know, he allegedly orders that.
 
But DNA could be a factor in this case. It just seems that they are skipping that step for other reasons. 
 
TAPPER: All right. 
 
Let's go to Kaitlan Collins now. 
 
Kaitlan, we have some new video from Doral, the property where Donald Trump was staying last night. 
 <br>[13:59:57]
 
And also you have some new information about who was riding in the motorcade with him. 
 
There is the video from Doral from just minutes ago. 
 
And, Kaitlan, I'm not sure who was there. I saw Jason Miller, his former -- for his current campaign aide. Who else is riding with him?