Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Never-Before-Seen Satellite Images Of Chinese Military Blimp; Judge Pauses Missouri Limit On Gender-Affirming Care For Trans Kids, Adults; DeSantis-Aligned Board Votes To Sue Disney Over Taxing District; Ed Sheeran Testifies In Copyright Infringement Case. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired May 01, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: An $80,000 reward being offered for any information that leads to the arrest of a man accused of killing five of his neighbors in Texas. Francisco Oropesa is accused of carrying out the bloody rampage near Houston on Friday night, and among the victims is a 9-year-old boy, Daniel Enrique Laso Guzman and his mother. Hundreds of lawmen are searching for Oropesa, who is considered armed and very dangerous. 
 
And we're also following another huge bank failure. First Republic Bank bought by JPMorgan Chase -- or becoming part of JPMorgan Chase rather. This after a frenzy of emergency moves this weekend ending with regulators seizing First Republic's $229 billion worth of assets. First Republic now the third bank to fail in just the past seven weeks. 
 
And happening right now, an attorney for the former president continues to cross-examine E. Jean Carroll, the woman accusing Trump of assaulting her in a New York City department store in the '90s. Ahead of today's testimony, the judge in this civil case denied Trump's request for a mistrial -- Jim. 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: We have exclusive new reporting on China's airship program. These are the first images, never before seen, obtained from a private company by CNN of a Chinese military blimp caught on satellite in a remote desert based in northwestern China. The pictures, we should note are from November 2022. In 
 
That's, of course, three months before a Chinese spy balloon was shot down off the coast of South Carolina after crossing the entire continental U.S. CNN's Alex Marquardt joins us now. Alex, first, tell us who took these pictures and what the significance we think are. 
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, these are images that were obtained by my colleague, Paul Murphy and I, from a company called BlackSky. They are a satellite imaging company, as you noted, they're a private company. 
 
And they've been looking at this site near a place called Kurla in northwestern China for years. But for the first time, they managed to photograph something on that runway outside of that hangar. And we are told by experts who have studied this that that is a military blimp that has never been seen before. 
 
SCIUTTO: That's a small figure on the far left. 
 
MARQUARDT: That white oval shape just to the left of the large blue hangar is a military blimp that's been talked about, has written about, but never been seen before. It is outside a huge hangar on a large runway. This is part of the airship program, which shows that China is making advances in their airship programs. 
 
We know that they have what are called aerostats, which stay stationary. We know they have those balloons, of course, very famously crossed the country just a couple months ago. Now we are seeing this military blimp, which could offer them more capabilities for what's known as ISR, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, to really help their military. 
 
SCIUTTO: Do we have any, or does the U.S. military -- have they reacted to this? Do they have any sense of the capabilities of this particular boat -- an airship being hard-bodied as opposed to soft- bodied? Do they have any sense of what it could do that others cannot? 
 
MARQUARDT: Not much insight from the official side. A senior defense official told me, yes, it can be seen therefore we would be aware of this. I didn't get a response from the National Security Council, the CIA declined to comment. But experts who have been studying this field for a very long time say that, you know, blimps add quite a bit to their airship program. They are more versatile, more maneuverable. This airship -- one expert told us -- it looks like it would have its own propulsion. It would have its own navigation. 
 
Of course, a ballistic missile like this could offer all kinds of advantages compared to say satellites, which are much more expensive -- up in space. Planes that are more expensive, can't stay aloft as long. So, this blimp is 31 meters long, about 100 feet, and I should note, it is right outside that massive hangar. Huge blue hangar 900 feet long. 
 
That runway is about a kilometer long, so 3,300 feet. Which is an indication, according to experts, that China is possibly working on something far bigger. That hangar could contain a stratospheric aircraft that could be even far larger, more sophisticated than the one that we saw at this site, again, associated with the PLA. 
 
SCIUTTO: Good reporting, Alex Marquardt, thanks so much -- Boris. 
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Still ahead, environmental groups are suing the FAA over SpaceX's launch of its massive starship rocket. We're going to tell you why. 
 
Plus, the union representing American Airlines pilots said they've authorized a strike if they can't hammer out a new contract. Ahead, how your summer travel frustrations could be getting a whole lot worse. Take some deep breaths. We'll be back in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
KEILAR: A significant development in Missouri's battle over transgender rights. Today a judge paused the state's plan that would make Missouri the most restrictive state in the country for those seeking gender-affirming medical care. A new hearing is now set for later this month to rule on the plan. CNN Kyung Lah has been following this case very closely. Kyung, what does today's decision mean for trans people in the state? 
 
KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: For the people living in the state of Missouri, it essentially means that care will continue for children and adults for now. Emphasis on those words -- for now. Because there will be legal challenges in the next coming weeks. 
 
So, let's come up -- let's explain, first of all, what happened today. The judge basically issued an order that will pause the enforcement, a state enforcement of an emergency rule. And as I talk here, we can see some of these graphics of what this emergency rule involves. It involves length of time. 
 
It involves how many times a patient and over how many years they have to see a psychiatrist or psychologist, as well as being screened for certain characteristics like autism and social media disorder. Which is what, you know, some advocates say doesn't really make a whole lot of sense to them. 
 
But the judge, in effect, agreeing with the ACLU and with patients saying, that there needs to be a pause as they explore more before coming up with a decision on the substance of this. 
 
The ACLU shortly after the decision was given by the judge after the ruling was released, said quote: As was clear from the beginning, the Attorney General's claim was proven an untruthful and dangerous attempt to get involved in individual and family medical decisions, showing he will attack the very people he's supposed to serve and protect. 
 
But a very different response that we are just now getting into CNN from the state Attorney General. The spokesperson saying, quote: we remain confident in our position, because the court even acknowledged that it deferred its consideration of the science until a later date. We will continue to fight for all patients to have access to adequate health care. 
 
So, essentially, Brianna, we are holding our breath, waiting to see what the court decides in a couple weeks. 
 
KEILAR: Yes, its buying time, and we will see where they land. Kyung Lah, thank you so much for that -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: Now to some of the top stories we're following at this hour. 
 
American Airlines pilots have authorized a strike just weeks before the busy summer travel season begins. The union representing the group says the vote was overwhelmingly in favor. Now workers would begin picketing at major airport hubs nationwide. Union leaders say the pilots are growing increasingly frustrated as they continue to fight a years-long battle for a new contract. American airlines says a strike would not impact flights or its operation in the bargaining process fails. 
 
Also, environmental groups are suing the FAA for last month's SpaceX launch over south Texas. The suit claims the agency ignored federal law when it authorized the launch without fully analyzing the significant environmental and community impacts -- that's according to their lawsuit. Large amounts of debris rained over the Gulf of Mexico after the rocket exploded in midair and may have hit nearby protected wildlife areas. 
 
Also, an Arkansas judge ordered Hunter Biden, the president's son, to answer questions in a written form about his investments, art sales, and other financial transactions as part of a paternity-related case. The judge also chided lawyers for the president's son's for overly redacting their findings and hiding information that should be public. Hunter Biden goes to trial in July to determine if his child support payments should be adjusted. He must also sit for a deposition next month. 
 
And Kevin McCarthy is in Jerusalem on his first international trip as Speaker of the House. He addressed the Knesset today, vowing strong support for Israel and calling it America's greatest ally. He also said he would invite Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to the U.S. if President Biden does not -- Jim. 
 
SCIUTTO: Well, musician Ed Sheeran is back in court, appearing visibly frustrated on the stand today. The British pop star testifying again in a copyright infringement trial. He's accused of copying the Marvin Gaye song, "Let's Get It On." He's calling those accusations insulting in his view. We'll have more from court coming up.
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: All right, we are following this developing story out of Illinois. A massive dust storm shutting down parts of Interstate 55 both ways. Look at this. This is a horrific scene that we are just getting pictures of after a multi-vehicle crash. This happened near Springfield, Illinois. You could see it here. The twisted metal, cars off the side of the highway, first responders putting out flames and here in the aftermath of all of if, we're expecting some more information from officials here at any moment and we are going to bring you any updates as we get them -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: The Florida board overseeing Disney's special taxing district voted today to sue the company. All of the members of board were appointed by Governor Ron DeSantis. Remember, he's been locked in a political battle with the entertainment giant and last week Disney launched a lawsuit of its own against DeSantis. CNN Steve Contorno is live in Florida for us tracking an event that the governor just spoke at. What did the Governor DeSantis say? [15:50:00]
 
STEVE CONTORNO, CNN REPORTER: Boris, Governor DeSantis is not backing down in this fight and he seems to suggest that the state is going to continue to take steps to ensure that Disney is not going to be able to be in control of this special district when all is said and done. Take a listen to what he said this afternoon in Titusville, Florida. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RON DESANTIS (R) FLORIDA GOVERNOR: For them to act like they have the ability to veto that, basically it's putting their thumb -- is putting their thumb in the eye of the voters of the state. And so, they did these agreements. They're not valid agreements for many different ways. And a lot of these people in other states, like thinks their commenting on this. 
 
They're just trying to pursue an agenda and trying to pursue a narrative. And the reality is, there's a lot of people who always used to criticize this arrangement that Disney had as being corrupt, as being -- as being unfair. And then the minute I was the one to come in to help unwind it, then they flipped just because they want to go against me. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CONTORNO: Now those agreements he was referencing, those are the pacts that Disney reaches with the outgoing board that DeSantis throughout right before he installed his only political appointees. And those agreements essentially gave Disney control of its land around the theme parks for the next 30 years. 
 
Now the new board came in and last week they voted to nullify those agreements which prompted Disney to file that lawsuit. In which they said that the governor has been using his political authority to punish them for speaking out against the so-called "don't say gay law," or what Republicans have called the "parental rights education" -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: And important to point out, we are anticipating that DeSantis may announce whether he's running for president in 2024 in coming weeks. Steve Contorno from St. Petersburg, thank you so much -- Jim. 
 
SCIUTTO: Well, the pop singer Ed Sheeran took the stand today to defend his Grammy award winning song "Thinking Out Loud," against claims of copyright infringement. The family of the man who co-wrote Marvin Gaye's classic 1973 hit "Let's Get It On," claimed that Sheeran copied parts of that song without permission. CNN's Chloe Melas, she's outside the courthouse today. Chloe, on the stand today, Ed Sheeran, I mean, he said I'm insulted by this claim. So how did he explain the apparent similarities here? 
 
CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: Well, Jim, Ed Sheeran was visibly frustrated on cross-examination. And he said, listen, you know, there are four chords that I am playing in "Thinking Out Loud." They are not the same chords -- according to Ed Sheeran -- that is in "Let's Get It On," written by Marvin Gaye and Ed Townsend. 
 
Ed Townsend's estate are the ones who are suing Ed Sheeran. He said, you know, that the fact that the musicologist for the Townsend family claims that I'm playing X chords he says is criminal. He says that the musicologist is actually changing around the chords to fit their narrative. 
 
So, I just want you to all listen to a clip right now of a mash up of a little bit of "Thinking Out Loud," a little bit of "Let's Get It On." Just so that you know actually what is going on here at the trial today. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARVIN GAYE, LET'S GET IT ON: I've been feeling fine baby ...  
 
ED SHEERAN, THINKING OUT LOUD: And darling I will be loving you 'til we're 70 And baby my ...
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MELAS: So, the cowriter of "Thinking Out Loud," her name is Amy, she wrote several songs with Ed Sheeran before "Thinking out Loud" came out. She is currently on the stand now and she is talking about the night that they wrote "Thinking Out Loud" in 2014 and that they did not draw inspiration from Marvin Gaye's song. So, we're going to see what happens later in the week when the jury potentially starts to deliberate. 
 
SCIUTTO: It is so tough, right? I mean, you can hear similarity there. But it's not the first song, right, you hear similarities, right, as you listen to them. Anyway, remarkable story to watch. Chloe Melas, thanks so much -- Brianna. 
 
KEILAR: All right, Jim, coming up, art imitates lunch or maybe breakfast. When someone eats a banana that was part of a museum display and that one banana was worth a bunch of money, a whole bunch of money. We'll explain after the break. 
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KEILAR: All right, one person's art is apparently another person's lunch -- or breakfast. I think it is a good breakfast food right. After a student ate a banana at a museum in Seoul, South Korea, the only problem was is that the banana it was duct taped to the wall and he knew this as part of an art installation by Italian artist Maurizio Cattalan. And the student reportedly taped the fruit right back to the wall when he was finished. Here you see the peel. A museum spokesperson saying the student told them he ate it because he was hungry. 
 
SANCHEZ:  And if this sounds like deja vu, that's because a similar incident happened at an art show in Miami Beach, Art Basil in 2019. Someone chowed down on a banana that was part of a display by the same artist. And if that isn't bananas enough for you, the piece was worth $120,000 and it went up in price. It is worth $150,000 now. I guess people just find this artwork to appealing to resist. And in light of how expensive it is, Jim, I'm wonder if you'll volunteer to be our --?
 
(CROSSTALK) 
 
KEILAR: Yes, you can --
 
SCIUTTO: I don't volunteer.
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCIUTTO: But I will note, someone of the three of us is from Miami and it's not Brianna and me. 
 <br>[16:00:00]
 
And that was the disappearing artwork and he brought one here. 
 
SANCHEZ: Eating the banana --
 
SCIUTTO: We'll let the viewers decide. 
 
SANCHEZ: Eating the banana was performance art itself, right. Eating the concept of the banana is very heady, I know. It's a complicated subject.
 
KEILAR: I find it -- 
 
SANCHEZ: Look, $120,000, we could split that money. We can split that money.
 
SCIUTTO: Are you saying that you -- listen, ff we get an offer first for that, I will be your volunteer tomorrow. 
 
KEILAR: Highest bidder. 
 
SANCHEZ: It is out there. You know who to call. 
 
That does it for CNN NEWS CENTRAL. "THE LEAD" starts right now. 
 
SCIUTTO: Oh, my goodness.