Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: New U.S. Military Package To Include Cluster Bombs; Manhunt For Dangerous Escaped Inmate; NJ Cargo Ship Fires Will Burn For Days; Special Counsel Focuses On Chaotic Dec. 2020 White House Meeting; Republican Presidential Candidates Required To Sign A Loyalty Pledge; Half Of U.S. Tap Water Has "Forever Chemicals"; IAEA Chief In South Korea To Calm Fears Of Wastewater Plan; Taylor Swift Megastar And Public Transit Savior? Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired July 08, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:29]
 
FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: Hello everyone, thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. 
 
And we begin with the Biden administration defending its decision to include controversial cluster bombs in its latest military aid package to Ukraine. And it follows months of debate over whether to supply the munitions as Ukraine's weapons stockpile runs low. Some Democrats say they oppose supplying the weapons. 
 
But in an exclusive interview with CNN's Fareed Zakaria, President Biden justified his decision to approve the transfer. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Two things, Fareed. I know it's a very difficult decision on my part. And by the way, I discussed this with our allies and discussed this with our friends up on the Hill, and we are in a situation, where Ukraine continues to be brutally attacked across the board by munitions, by these cluster munitions that are -- have dud rates that are very high that are a danger to civilians. Number one. 
 
Number two, the Ukrainians are running out of ammunitions. The ammunition, they call them, 155 millimeter weapons. This is a war relating to munitions. And they are running out of that ammunition, and we are low on it. 
 
And so what I finally did and we took the recommendation of the Defense Department to not permanently, but to allow for this transition period where we have more 155 weapons that emit these shells for Ukrainians to provide them with something that has a very low dud rate. It's -- I think it is 150, which is the least likely to be blown. 
 
And it's not used in civilian areas. They are trying to get through those trenches and stop those tanks from rolling. And so -- but it was not an easy decision, and we are not signatories of that agreement. 
 
But it took me a while to be convinced and do it. But the main thing is they have the weapon to stop the Russians now to keep them from stopping the Ukrainian offensives through these areas, or they don't. And I think they needed them. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WHITFIELD: The bombs are canisters that carry anywhere from dozens to hundreds of mini bombs. Ukraine and Russia are already using them. 
 
This is video of a cluster bomb dropped on Kharkiv last year. Sometimes the bombs don't explode on impact, like in this attack, and they can still pose a threat to civilians at any time. More that 100 countries have outlawed the weapon but neither the U.S. nor Russia support any ban.
 
We've got full coverage of this for you. Jasmine Wright is in Washington, Ben Wedeman is in Ukraine and Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling has our analysis. 
 
So Jasmine, let me begin with you in Washington. So what are we learning from Democrats who opposed the White House's decision? 
 
JASMINE WRIGHT, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, Fred. Well, a lot of Democrats just are not happy with the president's decision. To show you how controversial it is, these cluster munitions to Ukraine. Now, they voiced their opposition really after the White House and Pentagon mounted this full throated defense of the president's decision to do so. 
 
We heard from President Biden just there a few moments ago talking about how reluctantly he came to the decision after months of internal debate and discussion among allies, lawmakers, and his own officials. 
 
Ultimately it was a message through his team that advised that he take this step, one that National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan framed as a necessary step as the U.S. began to become worried that Ukraine would not have enough ammunition to carry out successfully their counterattack, their counteroffensive against Russia making these cluster munitions really necessary for them to do so. 
 
Still despite that rationale we heard from two top Democrats who called it a terrible decision. I want to read you part of this WaPo "Washington Post" op-ed because it's pretty (INAUDIBLE). They write that "Sending cluster munitions to Ukraine would not only reverse decades of U.S. policy and practice, it would also kill more civilians and exacerbate the very problem we are seeking to address when we provide millions of dollars for ordnance clearance. 
 
The last thing we need is a risk of rupture with key allies over our weapons that the United States should be leading the global effort to prohibit."
 
Now that was from Jeff Merkley (ph) who currently serves in the Foreign Relations Committee and former Senator Patrick Leahy. [11:04:55]
 
WRIGHT: Now National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, he addressed some of the points that were made in this op-ed. First, he said the U.S. got written assurances from Ukraine that they would do everything that they can to minimize the impact that these cluster munitions would have in their civil areas saying that they are motivated to do so, because it is their land and it is their people. 
 
But also they talked about the dud rate. We heard a little bit about from President Biden which is basically the percentage to which these failed to explode when on the ground. Jake Sullivan said that the dud rate of the cluster munitions that are sent to Ukraine from the U.S. have about 2.4 percent, while the ones that Russia are currently using have about a 30 percent to 40 percent making the case that anything that Russia uses far exceeds the risk of calamity really than anything that the U.S. would give to Ukraine. 
 
But still this is going to be an issue that the White House and President Biden is dealing with directly over the coming days and weeks, not just from Democrats here in the country but also officials abroad as he heads to Europe for that high stakes key NATO summit just on Sunday, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Jasmine, thanks so much.
 
Ben Wedeman, to you. so what is the reaction from Ukraine? Do they welcome this offering? 
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: They are very happy, in fact. We heard Oleksiy Reznikov, the defense minister of Ukraine. He tweeted that he thanks the United States, that they are going to follow the humanitarian conventions about the use of these weapons. 
 
And he also said that basically Ukraine would stick to the three basic conditions, one of them is that they will only be using these cluster munitions for the purpose of liberating internationally recognized Ukrainian territory, that they will not be used in urban areas, and that a detailed record they will be kept of where the weapons are used so that afterwards when the war is over these areas can be properly de-mined. 
 
But for the Ukrainians at this critical moment when they are trying to push their counteroffensive forward they say this is exactly the kind of the weapon they need to sort of push the Russians even further. 
 
And the Ukrainians, in fact, we heard Reznikov the defense minister also saying that they have been asking for cluster munitions for a very long time. So they are very happy that the Americans finally came through.
 
And what we are seeing is a pattern, the Ukrainians will ask for a certain weapons system, the West and the United States will say no, we can't do that. And then the conditions change, and then they do it. So you saw initially there was hesitation over providing Ukraine with tanks. They provided them with tanks. There was hesitation over providing Ukraine with aircraft particularly F-16s. Now the United States is supporting the training of F-16 pilots. And the hope is that soon, we don't know when, these F-16s will be provided. 
 
So it's a frustrating process for the Ukrainians who, you know, they listen to these words for instance from the democratic opponents in the United States to the provision of these weapons to Ukraine. And they say it is very easy for you to say, sitting in Washington, D.C. We in Ukraine, they will reply, are actually under attack, our country is invaded, parts are occupied, and we need the weapons to fight the Russians and drive them out. 
 
WHITFIELD: Meantime Ben, what about the strategy of Russia. How it continues its airstrikes in parts of Ukraine you know, while Ukraine is focusing more attention on Bakhmut. That again -- I mean what is happening there? 
 
WEDEMAN: Well, this morning just before 10:00 local time there was a Russian multiple rocket attack on the city of Leman (ph) which is about 25 miles north of Bakhmut. They killed 8 people who were out shopping at food stalls there, and injured at least 13 others. 
 
So the Russians continue with this tactic of seemingly randomly targeting civilian areas. On the battlefront we have heard from the 3rd Assault Brigade which one of the main units that is involved in the battle for Bakhmut. They say they have taken key high ground in a village of Klishchiivka which is just on the outskirts of Bakhmut. 
 
They say they are mopping up in areas that they have been able to drive the Russians out. So it does appear at least from the south they are making progress, and we were in that area yesterday. 
 
We saw that Ukrainian troops are saying yes, the Russians are slowly being driven back in that area. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Ben Wedeman, thanks so much. 
 <br>[11:09:46]
 
WHITFIELD: General Mark Hertling, let me bring you back in. So back to these cluster munitions, so we hear in the U.S. you know, politically in that arena, Democrats are saying it is terrible decision, military strategy. Is it terrible? 
 
LT. GEN. MARK HERTLING, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: It depends, Fred. And I hate to be so twisted on that. But it really depends on where they are used and how they are used. 
 
The United States has been one of the leaders saying they should not be used, although we have not signed the agreement, as Ben just said. 
 
There are 123 countries who have signed up for not using cluster munitions in combat, because they are so difficult to control. You know, the commentary about what the dud rate is, percentage of rounds, in each one of the artillery rounds that we are providing to Ukraine, they are anywhere between 72-88 cluster munitions, the size of a hand grenade. When they spread across a very wide area there will be duds. 
 
I've experienced that in combat, and it's fascinating to hear others say it's only going to be 2 percent. It could be more. And when you're talking about hundreds of thousands of rounds, two or three from each round at up to 300,000 duds that will litter the battlefield. So it causes a littered battlefield. 
 
The other thing is how are they going to be used? These are not used as a de-mining. They don't blow up land mines. It's going to be very difficult to use those in trenches, because they spread over such a wide area, a trench is only about two or three feet wide. Not all of them will go in the trenches. And in fact very small percentage.
 
Ukrainian forces will be hesitant to maneuver over the ground where they are used. So most of these rounds are going to be used primarily against counter artillery fire or a large consolidations of either equipment or men that the Ukrainians will fight. 
 
But the key point is then brought up was Minister of Defense Reznikov, said there were five conditions that they promised. First of all they will only use these for de-occupation of the Ukrainian ground. But that's a big context.
 
They will only be used in rural areas. The Ukrainians will keep strict records of where they are fired. That's going to be very difficult to do when you are talking about hundreds of thousands of rounds. 
 
And they will be prioritized for de-mining after the war is over. 
 
And finally, Minister Reznikov said they will report to their allied partners about the effectiveness and efficiency of the use of pieces of equipment. 
 
This was a very tough call by the president. I disagree with people that say we are slow rolling equipment or ammunition. These all have really tough consideration that need to not only be debated within the U.S. government, but with our allies before providing this kind of equipment to Ukraine. 
 
WHITFIELD: So, the conditions of where these are used, very important, as you are underscoring. So when you talk about it being a very difficult decision for the president, for the White House, you have experienced what it is to be in combat where cluster bombs are being used. I understand that your group encountered cluster bombs. 
 
What was the experience? What happened? what was the difference. Was it urban? Was it rural? 
 
HERTLING: It was rural. It was in the middle of the desert during Desert Storm. Our cavalry squadron was hit with five rounds of cluster munitions close to about 500 grenades came down on our positions. I was wounded as were 31 other of our soldiers. 
 
It did not destroy equipment, it damaged some equipment, it damaged the Bradley I was fighting in. It sheared off the antennas and poked a hole in one of your (INAUDIBLE) launchers. So these are not as destructive, because they are very small grenades. They can cause chaos within an organization. They can certainly kill a lot of people. The problem is once the duds remain they can be picked up by anyone. 
 
Russia has been firing cluster munitions in the Donbas since 2015. And Human Rights Watchers -- I'm sorry has said that over a thousand civilians and including 400 children have been killed just by picking up those rounds after the battles were over, after they were fired because it's the size of a small coke can. And you don't really know what they are unless you are educated on them. 
 
That is the dirty battlefield context to this. And that's why it took such a long time to make a final decision to provide these rounds. 
 
But they are a bridging strategy because right now, normal 155 artillery rounds are running out for Ukraine, so this provides them with literally hundreds of thousands of rounds they can use, but they are very dangerous and not as precise as some of the other rounds. 
 <br>[11:14:53]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. We'll leave it there for now until the next chapter. Lieutenant General Mark Hertling. Thanks so much, along with Jasmine Wright and Ben Wedeman.
 
Thanks to all of you. 
 
All right. And don't miss President Joe Biden's exclusive interview with Fareed Zakaria about the biggest challenges facing America and the world. 
 
The interview begins tomorrow morning at 10:00 right here on CNN. "FAREED ZAKARIA, GPS".
 
All right. still to come, a manhunt is underway in Pennsylvania for an escaped inmate with known survivalist skills. What authorities are asking the public to do to help track him down. 
 
Plus a deadly cargo ship fire continues to burn in New Jersey and officials say it could take several more days to extinguish the flames. We'll tell you about the challenges firefighters are facing in the efforts to put out the blaze.
 
Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:19:46]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Welcome back. 
 
Right now, a manhunt is on in Pennsylvania for an escaped inmate, who police say is dangerous, with known survivalist skills. They say Michael Charles Burham escaped from a prison in Warren County, using a piece of exercise equipment to climb through the roof. Burham was being held on arson and burglary charges. He is also a
 
 suspect in a homicide investigation. 
 
CNN's Rafael Romo is following this for us. So what do we know about the location that they are searching? 
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, they have just expanded in the last hour, and there has been an update in the last few minutes. Warren police now say federal, state and local agencies are looking for the suspect and have expanded the search area beyond the city. But his whereabouts at this point are unknown. 
 
Also new this hour, Pennsylvania state police have assumed incident command because the search expended throughout Warren County and into areas of New York state. 
 
Michael Charles Burham was being held in the Warren County prison on arson and burglary charges. And he is also a suspect in a homicide case as you mentioned, Fred.
 
 He was also associated with a prior carjacking and kidnapping of a local couple while trying to escape capture, according to police in Warren.
 
This is a rural town in Northwestern Pennsylvania near the border with New York State. Authorities say he has survivalist skills, which may make him more difficult to find as the Warren police captain explained. Let's take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CAPT. JEFF DOUGHERTY, WARREN COUNTY POLICE: He is a survivalist. He has been known to do these things in the past, be able to survive out there. That's why it's extremely important for us to ask the public if they know anything or if they see anything, if there is any camera footage out there, please let us know. We are following up on all tips that are coming in. And we are asking the public for assistance. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROMO: And Fred listen to this. Police say Burham escaped from the county prison Friday by elevating himself on exercise equipment and exiting the jail yard through a metal gated roof. Officials say he was able to use bedsheets that were tied together to get from the roof to the ground. 
 
Burham was last seen wearing an orange and white jumpsuit with a jail issued denim jacket and orange (INAUDIBLE). In addition to searching for Burham on foot was canine units. Law enforcement officers are also using ATVs, drones and aircraft according to a spokeswoman with Warren County.
 
And Fred, this is very important. Local officials say no one should engage with the suspect in any circumstances. They are asking people to call them immediately, call 911, but do not approach him. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. The tool that folks have right now is a mug shot.
 
ROLMO: Right.
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Thanks so much. Rafael Romo, good to see you. 
 
All right. Now to New Jersey, where a deadly fire on a cargo ship continues to burn days after it ignited. Officials are now warning it could take several more days to extinguish the flames. 
 
Two firefighters were killed -- Wayne Brooks and Augusto Acabou. Six others were injured. 
 
CNN's Polo Sandoval is monitoring the developments at the site there in Newark. Polo, what is the latest? 
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, in terms of the impact of this fatal fire from Wednesday night I can tell you, Fred, that according to the New York and New Jersey port authority, 99.5 percent of part operations have not been impacted by this deadly fire from a few days ago. 
 
And in terms of the fire itself, authorities said yesterday it could potentially continue to burn. From our vantage point it really looks more like a smoldering. I could tell you earlier this morning there were fire crews on-scene dousing the top decks of the ship that you're able to see actually behind me here. 
 
But at this point, like I said, it really looks more like a smoldering versus an actual active fire. Now we will have to hear from authorities in the hours or perhaps days ahead to see where they stand. In terms of the air quality, that was certainly a concern. They have a combination of mobile and stationary air monitoring devices. 
 
Authorities saying that they so far have not detected anything of major concern. There was some sulfur dioxide yesterday that did cause some concern and prompted officials to pull back some of the emergency responders for a few moments until the situation reached back to normal levels.
 
In terms of any water contamination, authorities saying they've got no reason to believe that there has been a sort of -- that that's actually happened.
 
The vessel itself, we're told is relatively stable. There seems to be some tilting to the right according to first responders on the ground, and they are prepared to address any further tipping if in fact that happens. 
 
So really Fred, a lot of the attention and the focus is on those two firefighters who gave their lives responding to this incident on Wednesday night. Both of them identified by the Newark Firefighters Union as Wayne Brooks jr., described by his uncle as quote, "a real- life superman" who became a firefighter to help this community. And Mr. Brooks' fellow fallen firefighter Augusto Acabou, known by his friends as Auggie, described often as somebody who is be tough as nails but also sweet beyond belief. That is really a lot (INAUDIBLE) here in Newark as authorities continue to investigate what caused this but again, little to no impact in other operations, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Terribly sad, of course, our condolences going out to their families. 
 
All right. Polo Sandoval thank you so much.
 <br>[11:24:55]
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Coming up new details on the special counsel investigation into efforts to overturn the 2020 election. We now know he is questioning witnesses about a chaotic Oval Office meeting after Donald Trump's loss int he 2020 elections. Details, straight ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: A CNN exclusive report. Sources telling CNN the special counsel probe into Donald Trump is focusing on a chaotic Oval Office meeting in the final days of his presidency. We now know that outside advisors were at the heated meeting pushing a series of extreme measures for Trump to stay in office including martial law. 
 
Sources now say prosecutors have zeroed in on that fiery conversation as they investigate efforts to overturn the 2020 election. 
 
CNN's Zachary Cohen joining us now. Zach, you were part of the team that broke the story. What specifically are prosecutors now looking at? 
 <br>[11:29:59]
 
ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Fred, there's no doubt this meeting was chaotic even by Trump administration standards, but prosecutors have been recently asking witnesses about what happened in the Oval Office on December 18th, 2020 specifically, they want to know more about this group of outside advisors that were pitching ideas like using the military to seize voting machines, like appointing a special counsel to investigate baseless claims of voter fraud. 
 
And those three particular individuals are Trump's former national security advisor Michael Flynn, the former Overstock CEO Patrick Byrne, Trump's former attorney Sidney Powell. 
 
Now prosecutors have really been looking at this time saying that it actually dates back four days before the meeting took place, December 14th, when electors and fake Trump electors met in seven battleground states and signed these certificates. 
 
Now we know that prosecutors are really zeroing in on trying to connect the dots between what happened between December 14th and January 6th. Four days after the electors met we know that this chaotic meeting happened and we know that after it was over Trump went to the residence and tweeted to his supporters to show up on January 6 and be wild.
 
So it does appear that prosecutors are looking not at this meeting and back him but as it fits into this broader time setting. WHITFIELD: All right. Zach Cohen continue to keep us posted. Thanks so
 
 much. 
 
All right. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis says he will take part in a first Republican primary debate in Wisconsin next month even if Donald Trump decides to skip the event. To participate in the debates the candidates will have to pledge to support whoever wins the GOP nomination. 
 
In Florida that same pledge will be required simply to be on the Republican primary ballot. This is a new mandate and has divided the presidential candidates and GOP voters. 
 
CNN's Randi Kaye has the story. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
RANDI KAYE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Do you agree with it?
 
VALENTIN HERNANDEZ, REPUBLICAN VOTER: 100 percent. 
 
KAYE: Republican voter Valentin Hernandez is 100 percent in favor of Florida's Republican Party requiring 2024 presidential candidates to sign a loyalty pledge to support the party's eventual nominee. And if they won't sign the pledge they won't appear on the ballot. 
 
HERNANDEZ: If you don't do that you are a disorganized party, and you're going to lose the elections. You know, you have your difference, first you settle them and then you vote as a party. We don't want any prima donnas here. 
 
KAYE: Florida's GOP didn't insist on a loyalty pledge last cycle. Now that three Floridians could be on the ballot -- Donald Trump, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, and Miami Mayor Francis Suarez -- it could get interesting. 
 
Former election lawyer Ben Ginsberg. 
 
BEN GINSBERG, FORMER ELECTION LAWYER: This is Ron DeSantis' own state party who is giving this huge technical advantage to Donald Trump. So what it means is that Ron DeSantis really has to temper and moderate his criticism of Donald Trump or he will find Donald Trump saying Ron de Sanctimonious doesn't really mean this. He already said he's going to support me for president, so don't take his criticism serious. 
 
KAYE: Yaz Hernandez who voted for Trump twice along with her husband likes DeSantis, too. She says the party must unite behind the eventual nominee no matter who it is. 
 
YAZ HERNANDEZ, FLORIDA VOTER: Donald Trump needs to support DeSantis if DeSantis is the one -- the front runner. That's the way I feel. 
 
KAYE: And you wouldn't want to vote for someone who didn't sign the loyalty pledge? 
 
Y. HERNANDEZ: No I wouldn't. KAYE: Ginsberg says the loyalty pledge isn't illegal or necessarily
 
 unethical. 
 
GINSBERG: When it comes to party politics, there are few ethical rules, but I think this is more of a moral gut check issue for party leaders about whether you want to try and tilt presidential primary for a front runner. 
 
KAYE: The loyalty pledge gives the state's Republican Party the power to decide who they will allow on the ballot, which Ginsberg says could hurt some voters by limiting the number of options they have. 
 
What if your candidate, who you like, refused to sign the loyalty pledge, that person couldn't be on the ballot. Would that be ok with you? 
 
Y. HERNANDEZ: No it wouldn't. 
 
KAYE: Christian Ziegler, the chairman of the Florida GOP told CNN via email the loyalty pledge is an effort to ensure maximum unity heading into the 2024 general election. But not every Republican voter we spoke with is in favor of it. 
 
NICOLE BURNS, FLORIDA REPUBLICAN VOTER: However, I do think it takes away our individual freedom. I think it just does. I don't know if it's necessary. 
 
KAYE: And this independent voter who voted for Trump in 2016 says Florida's Republican Party is playing with fire. 
 
CIRO MENDOZA, FLORIDA REPUBLICAN VOTER: I think they have put themselves in a position to be criticized. If they didn't ask for a loyalty pledge, a majority of the public would not perceive that there is actually a problem.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Randi Kaye, thanks so much for that. 
 
Still ahead, so-called "forever chemicals" are present in nearly half the nation's tap water. Coming up, how you could make sure what's coming out of your faucet is safe, and what you should do if it's not. 
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: An alarming new study estimates that nearly half the tap water in the U.S. is contaminated with quote, "forever chemicals". The U.S. Geological Survey conducted the most comprehensive research to date to find out just how widespread these chemicals are. And scientists now believe they may be more hazardous to our health than previously thought.
 
CNN's Jacqueline Howard has more. JACQUELINE HOWARD, CNN HEALTH REPORTER: "Forever chemicals" Fred, are
 
 PFAs chemicals or polyfluoroalkyl or perfluoroalkyl substances. They're called forever chemicals, because they break down very slowly. And these chemicals are commonly used in everyday items like nonstick pans or certain food packaging. 
 <br>[11:39:48]
 
HOWARD: But as for this new study, researchers tested tap water samples for PFAs. These samples came from more than 700 sites around the country, including private wells and public sources. 
 
The researchers found PFAs in about 45 percent of drinking water samples. And PFAs were more likely to be detected in urban areas versus rural areas. 
 
Now these findings aren't meant to scare people, but it's more reason to use activated carbon filters on your tap water at home. Just remember to change the filter regularly. And we know that PFAs has been linked to certain cancers, metabolic disorders, and there is still ongoing research into more of the public health implications associated with these chemicals, Fred. 
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Jacqueline Howard, thanks so much for that. 
 
All right. The head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog is in South Korea to calm public fears over Japan's plan to release wastewater from the Fukushima nuclear site. It's a controversial move 12 years after the plant's meltdown. Japanese authorities and U.N. officials insist the plant is safe. The water will be treated to remove the most harmful pollutants and will be released gradually over many years in highly diluted quantities. 
 
But CNN's Paula Hancocks report fishermen and consumers in South Korea have concerns. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Lee Gi-sam (ph) watches his crew unload the catch from the night fishing. Mackerel, anchovies and yellow tail fished off the southeast coast of South Korea close to Japan. The IAEA, the International Atomic Energy Agency gave Japan the green light this week to release treated wastewater from the Fukushima nuclear power plant. Lee and his fellow fishermen are worried. 
 
LEE GI-SAM, SOUTH KOREAN FISHERMAN (through translator): I have my doubts. I don't trust the South Korean government. They keep talking about scientific verification without announcing any plans for the future. 
 
HANCOCKS: The IAEA says Japan's plan meets international safety standards but a Gallup Korea survey from June shows 78 percent of those polled said they were very or somewhat worried about contamination of seafood. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I will probably stop eating seafood once the water is released. 
 
LEE: If the public avoids seafood we will face bankruptcy. I think it's going to massively hurt the business. 
 
HANCOCKS: Lee says he's not sure he would let his own children eat seafood after the release adding he'd been a fisherman for more than 30 years and has no other skills. 
 
South Koreans have been panic buying sea salt. It's rare to find it on the supermarket shelves anymore. Wholesale prices have soared more than 40 percent since April. 
 
The government has been releasing salt reserves to try and cool prices claiming weather has also played a significant role in the jump. South Korea's government says it will maintain a ban on Japanese seafood imports from the Fukushima area in place since 2013 but does respect the IAEA report. 
 
For Lee and thousands like him, the future is uncertain, dependent on the public's trust or lack of in seafood. 
 
LEE: I want to live and work in my fishing village until my last day. 
 
HANCOCKS: Paula Hancocks, CNN -- Seoul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Coming up next, an A-list popstar becomes an unlikely public transit icon. We'll explain, next. 
 <br>[11:43:12]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. Welcome back. 
 
Look what she made them do. This cruel summer, Taylor Swift fans had no bad blood about doing whatever it takes to experience her Eras (ph) tour. Public transit systems nationwide are getting a much needed if temporary boost from Swifties flooding trains, buses, subways, all to see her sold-out shows. As transit agencies scrambled to recover from the pandemic, experts say all those fans taking mass transit offer lessons for policymakers on how to adapt to the post-pandemic world. 
 
CNN business reporter Nathaniel Meyersohn joining me live with more on all this. So Nathaniel tell us more about which cities are benefiting from this lavender haze. 
 
NATHANIEL MEYERSOHN, CNN BUSINESS REPORTER: Yes, so Swifties are taking public transit to these concerts, and it's giving a big boost to ridership in cities like Atlanta, Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Minneapolis. 
 
Taylor Swift fans, they don't want to sit in traffic in gridlock, they are hopping on the subways and trains and buses. Philadelphia has been advertising to Taylor Swift fans telling them they can shake off congestion by riding the trains.
 
WHITFIELD: Shake it off. Ok. So what can transit agencies then kind of learn from all this? What are they taking away from all these people riding transit? 
 
MEYERSOHN: So Fredricka, public transit ridership has really struggled since the start of the pandemic. Ridership is still slow to recover at about 70 percent of its pre-pandemic levels. More people are staying home, they are not commuting. 
 
So that's hurting public transit. But I think all of the fans going to these Taylor Swift concerts shows that if you extend hours, if you add routes, people are going to take public transit. But if it's unreliable and infrequent, they are going to drive. 
 
WHITFIELD: So this whole incentive that, you know, some major cities are actually letting public, you know, transit riders hop on board for free, you know, other cities are actually testing it out, is it working? 
 <br>[11:49:47]
 
MEYERSOHN: Yes. So a growing numbers of cities are dropping their fares, letting riders go for free. We see Boston testing this out, Kansas City, Richmond, Alexandria, Virginia, Raleigh -- so this is really spreading.
 
And cities are doing this to try to attract riders, boost ridership, also make it easier for low income folks to afford public transit. That the majority of public transit users and also make buses more efficient. They don't have to wait and wait for people to pay their tolls. 
 
But there is some criticism of these programs that they're not free. You know, tolls are an important source of revenue for these agencies. And we also see, you know, the fact that they're not addressing that public transit is still unreliable. 
 
WHITFIELD: Ok. I didn't know they were doing it for free. Time to hop on the bus and the subway although I like them anyway whether you pay or not. 
 
All right. Nathaniel Meyersohn, thanks so much.
 
All right. A nail salon robbery well, it didn't go as planned for the alleged thief in Atlanta when the customers and the workers rebuffed him. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Give me all your money. (INAUDIBLE) Give me your money. Give it up. Where's the money? Give me the money. Where's the money? Everybody, give me everything. Where's the money? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) WHITFIELD: I mean it's serious, but it's also laughable. I mean the customers, the people who work there, they were not giving in. He was demanding money. He instead got ignored big time. One woman as you saw there even walking out of the salon. The suspect did take one woman's phone before fleeing the scene and it was later recovered.
 
All right. The new "CNN ORIGINAL SERIES: SEE IT LOUD, THE HISTORY OF BLACK TELEVISION" is coming your way. Executive produced by Lebron James and Maverick Carter. This five-part docuseries explores the impact of black television on all cultures. Don't miss the premier tomorrow night at 9:00 Eastern, right here on CNN. For now here's a preview. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: When you think about the history of black television, you really think about progress. For the longest time we were footnotes in history. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is so important for us to have African- American representation. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We talk about things that nobody in this country was willing to have a discussion about. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Martin, do you believe they call us icons? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That was one of the first times I saw myself in the sci-fi genre. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: That show was so successful. It launched Bravo Network.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Then you have Tyler Perry, who owns a studio. In 1950 you could have never have imagined it. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is an era to be as loud as possible and as black as possible. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We are the story. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: "SEE IT LOUD, THE HISTORY OF BLACK TELEVISION" premiers tomorrow at 9:00 on CNN. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes. I still get those residual texts. Thank you. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: You're welcome.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[11:53:07]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
WHITFIELD: All right. It was one of the most anticipated debuts in NBA history and it did not disappoint. The number one overall draft pick Victor Wembanyama put on a show in Las Vegas during the NBA summer league.
 
CNN's Coy Wire has that and more. 
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS CORRESPONDENT: Hello Fred, Expectations are sky high for the 7'4" teenager from France. And fans even starting lining up at 3:00 a.m. to get into the sold-out arena for his debut against the Hornets Friday night.
 
Wemby-mania reaching a fever pitch when he stepped on the court for the first time in his Spurs uniform. Show and tell (ph) them what's getting them all (INAUDIBLE). The block in the first quarter and then most big guys they'd pass the ball here, but not him. Handles all the way up the court. The no-look pass. Ooh, la-la, oui, oui. 
 
And you would expect his defense scary good. A game high five blocks, including this three-point attempt by the number 2 overall pick, Brandon Miller. The Spurs had a player get five blocks just once all last season.
 
Wembanyama also showing his range, hitting the three-pointer, getting the foul as well. Just nine points on the night though. After the game, Wemby told reporters he still has a long way to go before the games really start to count. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VICTOR WEMBANYAMA, NBA PLAYER: Special moment, really, really special to wear that jersey for the first time, it's really an honor. And overall I'm glad we won this game. (INAUDIBLE) I didn't really know what I was doing on the court tonight but this is you know, (INAUDIBLE). 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: And two years after a title was stripped because of a doping violation, testing positive for marijuana, Sha'Carri Richardson wins the 100 meters at the U.S. championships whipping off her trademark orange wig as she was introduced, the crowd erupted. She'd won a 10.71 in the opening heat, second fastest time in the world this year. And we only need 10.82 seconds to show you her title run. 
 
Not a great start but she turned on the after burners for the win. The 23-year-old from Texas racing into the world championship in Budapest next month for a lightning fast clash with Jamaica's Sherika Jackson. 
 
SHA'CARRI RICHARDSON, ATHLETE: I'm ready. Mentally, physically and emotionally. And I'm here to say I'm not back. I'm better. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[11:59:58]
 
WIRE: And finally a great moment at last night's Red Sox game against the A's.