Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Today, Trump to Surrender at Fulton County Jail; Trump's Rivals Face Off Without Him at First GOP Debate; Pence, Christie, Haley Attack Ramaswamy in GOP Debate. Aired 7-7:30a ET

Aired August 24, 2023 - 07:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[07:00:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  We got 19 here. Watch the knives come out.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  And the mercenary leader who dare challenge Vladimir Putin, Yevgeny Prigozhin, apparently dead in a highly suspicious plane crash.
 
MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The main suspicion is that this is connected with the state.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Prigozhin crossed Putin in ways Putin had never seen in the 23 years he's been in power.
 
CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  The question becomes who takes over these Wagner operations.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR:  Well, good morning, everyone. We're glad you're with us. It was a big night. It's a big day ahead, right?
 
VICTOR BLACKWELL, CNN ANCHOR:  Certainly. If you slept in last night, we have got it all covered for you this morning.
 
HARLOW:  We didn't. We were up for it.
 
Just hours from now, Donald Trump will be arrested for the fourth time in five months. Sources tell CNN the former president will surrender this evening at the Fulton County Jail to face federal felony charges, I should say, for the alleged criminal conspiracy to overturn his election loss in Georgia.
 
The deadline for all 19, by the way, to surrender is noon Eastern tomorrow. But half of Trump's 18 co-defendants have turned themselves in, and that includes his longtime ally and lawyer, Rudy Giuliani. Take a look at those mug shots.
 
BLACKWELL:  Well, Trump skipped the first Republican presidential debate last night. His eight rivals battled for the spotlight without him there, but Trump still loomed large. At one point, the moderators asked the candidates if they would still support Trump as the GOP nominee, even if he's convicted.
 
You hear that? The audience cheered when several of the candidates raised their hands, including Ron DeSantis and Mike Pence.
 
Kristen Holmes is live in Bedminster, New Jersey, where Trump is preparing to leave for Georgia. So, what's the feeling there as Trump gets ready to head to Fulton County?
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, Victor and Poppy. Well, two things can be true at once, and they often are when it comes to former President Donald Trump. I spoke to of his two advisers early this morning about that debate he skipped last night. And there were some concerns that there could be a breakout moment for another candidate. They did not feel that after watching the debate.
 
They all felt very confident, the former president feeling very confident after that debate in that decision not to participate. But when it comes to going to Georgia, they, of course, do not actually want to be doing this today. But they are going to take advantage of it when it comes to a media narrative. They know that this is going to suck all of the wind out of the sails of those people who did participate in the debate.
 
And to give you a little bit of context here, here is what we know is going to happen later today. This afternoon, Donald Trump is going to leave his Bedminster golf club and go to the airport where he will fly to Atlanta and go directly to the jail this evening to be processed.
 
We still do not have the details of what that's going to look like in terms of fingerprints, in terms of a mug shot, but we are expecting to possibly get those details before he arrives. Then he will head back to New Jersey. We're told that they are making arrangements for him to speak to reporters who hare traveling with him before he takes off to come back to his club.
 
And I don't want to note that 7:30 time, because there had been a lot of conversations about the fact that it was in the evening whether or not this was Trump's decision because he wanted to be there during prime time.
 
And I'm told that isn't the case, that this was because of negotiations between Trump's team and law enforcement in Atlanta, among others, as they tried to sort how to get the former president in and out of the city as quick as possible. As we know, that is a city that can shut down because of traffic. So, this was a later time that they believed would help them navigate getting the former president in and out.
 
And this is the charges that former President Trump has lashed out again, both privately and publicly. But his team, they say that they are going to play this the exact same way that they have for the other three that he has been to, he there going to use this politically. They are going to fundraise off this. And he's going to say that this is election interference all because he is running for president in 2024.
 
HARLOW:  Okay. Kristen Holmes, we'll watch. Thanks for the reporting.
 
BLACKWELL:  The first Republican presidential debate happened last night without former President Trump, who is the frontrunner by far, according to several polls. Eight other candidates, they were there to debate some of the top issues facing the nation with an unexpected candidate being the target of most of the attacks. Watch.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  If former President Trump is convicted in a court of law, would you still support him as your party's choice? Please raise your hand, if you would.
 
CHRIS CHRISTIE, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  The conduct is beneath the office of president of the United States. And this is the great thing about this country. Booing is allowed, but it doesn't change the truth. It doesn't change the truth.
 
ASA HUTCHINSON, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Obviously, I'm not going to support somebody who has been convicted of a serious felony, or who is disqualified under our Constitution.
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS (R-FL):  I will have Europe pull their weight. Right now, they are not doing it. Our support should be contingent on them doing it.
 <br>[07:05:02]
 
VIVEK RAMASWAMY, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  I find it offensive that we have professional politicians on the stage that will make a pilgrimage to Kyiv, to their pope, Zelenskyy.
 
I think that we have to put the interests of Americans first.
 
MIKE PENCE, FORMER U.S. VICE PRESIDENT:  Vivek, if we do the giveaway that you want to give to Putin, to give him his land, it's not going to be too long before he rolls across a NATO border.
 
NIKKI HALEY, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  You want to go and defund Israel. You want to give --
 
RAMASWAMY:  Okay, let me address that. I'm glad you brought that up. I'm going to address each of those right now. This is the false lies of a professional politician. There you have it.
 
HALEY:  You make America less than if you have no foreign policy experience, and it shows. 
 
RAMSWAMY:  This isn't that complicated, guys. Unlock American energy, drill, frack, burn coal, embrace nuclear, put people back to work by no longer paying them more to stay at home.
 
PENCE:  Joe Biden has weakened this country at home and abroad. Now is not the time for on-the-job training. We don't need to bring in a rookie.
 
SEN. TIM SCOTT (R-SC):  We must have a president of the United States who will advocate and fight for, at the minimum, a 15-week limit.
 
GOV. DOUG BURGUM (R-ND):  We can't have Republicans who fight for 50 years for this great cause to return it back to the states and then the next day, they turn around and go, no, the feds should do that.
 
PENCE:  It's not a states-only issue, it's a moral issue. And I promise you, as president of the United States, the American people will have a champion for life in the Oval Office.
 
HALEY:  When you're talking about a federal ban, be honest with the American people. No Republican president can ban abortions any more than a Democrat president could ban all those state laws.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BLACKWELL:  Joining us now, CNN Political Director David Chalian and CNN Political Commentator and host of Smerconish, Michael Smerconish. Gentlemen, welcome to you.
 
Some of the big moments we saw there, and, David, let me start with you. I know that the exchange between Nikki Haley and Vivek Ramaswamy, which many people saw as one of her stronger moments in the evening, that really stood out to you.
 
DAVID CHALIAN, CNN POLITICAL DIRECTOR:  Yes. I mean, Nikki Haley did have quite a few strong moments, moments that she could turn around and try to fundraise off of. But I think it's so instructive, Victor, because that moment, yes, a good moment for Nikki Haley to appeal to the more traditional establishment, interventionist kind of Republican Party. The question is, is that still the Republican Party?
 
So, she scores this point against Vivek Ramaswamy, but is Ramaswamy actually more aligned with the current GOP primary electorate here? So, will it actually help Nikki Haley advance, or is it going to help her sort of just stay alive in this race by bringing some money into her coffers, some more support from that establishment wing?
 
I think when we look at these debate moments, we have to assess it in the context of what the Republican primary electorate is looking for right now, which is why I think Ramaswamy was sort of this placeholder for Trump all night long without the former president on the stage.
 
HARLOW:  Michael. What did the hand-raise moment of everyone, except for Asa Hutchinson and Chris Christie supporting a hypothetically convicted felon Trump, tell you about the party?
 
MICHAEL SMERCONISH, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  That they're still unwilling to take him on with the exception of Chris Christie and Asa Hutchinson, that he was the elephant in the room and they need those who are currently supporting him, but they're not prepared to go after him in order to gain those votes.
 
I think Donald Trump won the debate last night, and I think that Donald Trump won the debate last night because without him on the stage, Ron DeSantis is the de facto leader in that field. But I don't think he justified that position. I don't think that anybody came away from the debate and said, yes, I see why it's DeSantis as the alternative to Trump.
 
It's not that he had a bad night. He didn't have a bad night. Several people had a good night. But where today, many are waking up who were on that stage thinking, hey, not so bad. I did well. I think it's harder to winnow the field. Why would they get out before the next debate at the Reagan Library or the third debate after that? Donald Trump likes the status quo.
 
BLACKWELL:  David, what do you think about DeSantis' performance last night? And I'll put it in this context, are there any of the moments that you just mentioned that can push a narrative forward that the governor presented last night during the debate?
 
CHALIAN:  Well, I do agree with Michael that Trump emerged as the winner of the debate by not showing up. I think there's nothing that really happened on that debate stage where you saw somebody break out in that moment to really coalesce the half of the party looking for an alternative to Trump just yet.
 
I don't think DeSantis did harm to his debate performance last night but he didn't catapult himself after a summer of reset of concern among his donors, of dealing with staff issues and overspending his campaign and trying to retool it, he didn't have a moment to show its now onshore footing. In fact, I think DeSantis looked a little bit more like part of the rest of the pack instead of a tier of his own, which he was hoping to sort of use as momentum to keep building that support, to be the one-on-one to take on Trump.
 <br>[07:10:08]
 
I think this is a large field still that does not yet have an answer as to who is going to emerge as the one, if one emerges, to be one-on- one with Donald Trump.
 
BLACKWELL:  Let's listen to the Chris Christie Vivek Ramaswamy back and forth here.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAMASWAMY:  I'm the only person on the stage who isn't bought and paid for, so I can say this, the climate change agenda is a hoax.
 
CHRISTIE:  I've had enough already tonight of a guy who sounds like ChatGPT standing up here. And the last person in one of these debates, Brett, who stood in the middle of the stage and said, what's a skinny guy with an odd last name doing up here, was Barack Obama. And I'm afraid we're dealing with the same type of amateur standing stage tonight.
 
RAMASWAMY:  Give me a hug, just like you did to Obama.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
HARLOW:  Michael, what do you think?
 
SMERCONISH:  We love the zingers. And I thought that Chris Christie's line was a great line to Vivek Ramaswamy, but for my money, the best retort of the night was Ramaswamy saying, okay, then give me a hug, because we all remember exactly what he's referring to.
 
It's interesting that the first question went to Ron DeSantis. No surprise. The second question went to Chris Christie, Governor Christie. And you thought he was going to then come at DeSantis, but he passed, and that was sort of a sign of what was to come. It was Ramaswamy who caught most of the flak because they see him as ascendant.
 
BLACKWELL:  Yes. And those first questions about Rich Men North of Richmond, which was an interesting place to start. Michael, David, thank you both.
 
HARLOW:  So --
 
CHALIAN:  Thank you.
 
SMERCONISH:  Thank you.
 
HARLOW:  Thanks, guys.
 
Chris Christie facing a tough crowd at last night's presidential debate as he went after Donald Trump and his defenders. Well, guess who joins us next? Governor Chris Christie.
 
BLACKWELL:  And voters did not see Trump on stage last night, but they'll see him walking into jail today. How this plays politically, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[07:15:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHRIS CHRISTIE (R), 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Vivek in your book you had much different things to say about Donald Trump than you're saying here tonight. And -- 
 
VIVEK RAMASWAMY, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: That's not true.  
 
CHRISTIE: No, it is very true.  
 
RAMASWAMY: That is not true. 
 
CHRISTIE: It's very true. I read it. And I know -  
 
RAMASWAMY: Because there's a difference between that behavior - 
 
CHRISTIE: Look, I - 
 
RAMASWAMY: And illegal behavior, Chris.  
 
CHRISTIE: By the way - 
 
RAMASWAMY: And you, as a prosecutor, should know better. 
 
CHRISTIE: By the way -- yes, I - you know what, I know a lot better -  
 
RAMASWAMY: There is a difference between bad behavior and - 
 
CHRISTIE: I know - I know a lot better than you do. You've never done it like you've never done anything to try to advance the interest of this government, except to put yourself forward as a candidate tonight.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HARLOW: So that was former New Jersey governor, now Republican presidential hopeful, Chris Christie, going after tech entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy during the debate last night. But Vivek was not the only candidate Christie took on. Here you go. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHRISTIE: Here's the bottom line. Someone's got to stop normalizing this conduct, OK. Now - and -- now, whether or not - whether or not you believe that the criminal charges are right or wrong, the conduct is beneath the office of president of the United States. And - and, you know, this is the great thing about this country, booing is allowed, but it doesn't change the truth. It doesn't change the truth. 
 
BRET BAIER, MODERATOR: Mr. Ramaswamy, you raised your hand. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HARLOW: Joining us now is the former governor of New Jersey, Chris Christie. 
 
Good morning, Governor. Great to have you.  
 
Let's start out with your best moment. What was your best moment last night? 
 
CHRIS CHRISTIE (R), 2024 PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Telling the truth about Donald Trump. I mean, look, you know, if you're unwilling to - if you're unwilling to confront him when he's not there, how the heck are you going to be willing to confront him when he is. And I'm proud of the fact that I was the only one last night who was willing to do it repeatedly and directly. Because the truth does matter. And what also matters is being able to say to folks, look, whatever you believe about the weaponization of DOJ, or whether you agree or disagree with the criminal charges, do we really believe that this is normal behavior? Do we really think that this is what we want as a role model for our children and grandchildren? The clear answer is no.  
 
HARLOW: Why do you think that was your best moment to get Republican primary voters to vote for you when you had really loud boos every time you did that?  
 
CHRISTIE: Well, because not every Republican primary voter in America was in the arena. And because you can't be looking to play to the grand stands, Poppy. 
 
HARLOW: OK. 
 
CHRISTIE: What I was truly was talking to the people, the tens of millions of people who were watching in their living rooms, in their family rooms at home.  
 
HARLOW: Let me play - 
 
CHRISTIE: And the fact is, if you're not going to talk about that, then - then - then why bother running? You should just concede the race to Donald Trump, which is what a lot of those people did on the stage last night.  
 
HARLOW: Governor, let me play for you what one woman watching in a focus group with our colleague said as she was watching you.  
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Tell me why you didn't like what Chris Christie had to say.  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He was just argumentative pretty much. And out after Trump.  
 
FOREMAN: You don't think there's any logic to what he said though?  
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I think it was a lot of revenge.  
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
HARLOW: That's a voter in Iowa. What do you say to people like that?  
 
CHRISTIE: I'd say, like, once again, am I out after Trump? I am out to beat Donald Trump. And because I think he deserves to be beaten. And - and I make no apologies for going out and making the argument against him and the argument for the Constitution.  
 
I would say to her if she were standing in front of me right now, do you love the Constitution and do you care about it? And does it matter to you that the guy who, you know, took the oath to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution and said - said he wanted to suspend it to keep himself in power. I'm sorry, you don't back off from making that argument. The country is bigger than any one man and certainly better than -- bigger than any one person's opinion in a CNN focus group.  
 <br>[07:20:06]
 
HARLOW: Governor, what do you think your weakest moment was?  
 
CHRISTIE: I think the weakest moment for - for me was the weakest moment for everybody, Poppy, which was that that stage was completely out of control. And I'm disappointed that the moderators didn't play a stronger hand in controlling what was going on. There were a couple folks on stage last night who felt they could go over time every time, that they could interrupt and had a right to speak on every issue. And that's where the moderators have to say, no, and shut them down.  
 
HARLOW: Oh. All right. That - 
 
CHRISTIE: And that didn't - that didn't happen. And so what it led to was - what it led to was, there being no sense of control or focus on the debate during large portions of it.  
 
HARLOW: OK. I asked your - your weakness, but I don't think you're going to answer that.  
 
You did get the second most talk time. I'll just say that. 
 
But I do want to let you answer a question on abortion because almost all the other candidates got to weigh in on this last night and you didn't. And I'd like you to clarify for the voters right now. What would you have said last night if you were asked directly about whether you would sign and support a federal ban on abortion? You used to support a 20-week ban.  
 
CHRISTIE: Yes, what I've -- what I've said, Poppy, and I did not support a 20-week ban. That's incorrect. What I've said all along was that I think each and every one of the states and its citizens should make this decision. That for 50 years we've argued Roe versus Wade in the federal scheme was not the right way to go. That this belonged in the states. And that the states should be able, through their citizens, to make the decision that they want regarding how abortion should be regulated in each and every one of the particular states.  
 
And if, in fact, at one point, after all 50 states have weighed in, there's an obvious national consensus, I would support an obvious national consensus. But we are far, far from that. And I don't think we should court -- short circuit the process of letting all the citizens of all the states weigh in. It's the first time they've had an opportunity to do that in over 50 years. And I would not cut short that process.  
 
HARLOW: Is - is Vivek Ramaswamy the future of the Republican Party?  
 
CHRISTIE: No.  
 
HARLOW: OK. 
 
CHRISTIE: No. 
 
HARLOW: Why is he polling higher?  
 
CHRISTIE: I mean unless - unless - 
 
HARLOW: You spent a lot of time going - sorry to step on you. There's a little delay. I ask because you spent a lot of time going after him last night, and he is polling higher than you.  
 
CHRISTIE: I - I responded to him twice when he came after me. And so, I don't think I spent a whole lot of time on that, Poppy. He came after me, so I'm going to respond. 
 
And, by the way, he's not polling higher than me in New Hampshire, where I'm at 14 percent and in second place. And that's why these national polls are so silly. We don't have a national primary, as you know. And I'm really happy about the fact that I'm at a clear second place now, 5 points ahead of Ron DeSantis and 3 points ahead of Vivek Ramaswamy in New Hampshire. And that's where this is going to matter in the early states. That's going to set it up.  
 
So, the national polls are silliness unless we decide to have a national primary, which is not what we're doing in this race. So, you know, I am no more concerned about Vivek Ramaswamy than I am about anybody else in the race. And last night he just decided that he was going to try to talk as much as he possibly could and insult everybody on the stage. This is a guy who has barely ever voted and now he wants to insult all of us who have been giving to the public, been in public life for decades, sacrificing to try to make this a better country, while he's been sitting on the sidelines pouting and not voting or participating in the process.  
 
HARLOW: You --  
 
CHRISTIE: So, you know, no, I don't think that's the future of our party. I think it's for the people who participate. 
 
HARLOW: Earlier this week you said you thought Trump would debate in a third debate. That he would see the first one, and then he'd see the one on September 27th and you said, "he's going to get pretty damaged in the first two by not being there." After seeing what played out last night, do you still think that he shows up for the third one?  
 
CHRISTIE: I do. Yes.  
 
HARLOW: Are you looking forward to that?  
 
CHRISTIE: I'm looking forward to every one of these. Any time you have an opportunity to be on the stage and lay out what you believe for the American people, it's a great opportunity. And I'll also say to you that it didn't matter to me last night in the end that he wasn't there because I continued to say the very same things, I've been saying on your air waves and lots of others about Donald Trump last night. Character matters, the truth matters, and that his conduct is below, well below what we should expect from a president of the United States.  
 
And so, I believed that before last night. I believe it afterwards. And I'm not going to continue in this race without saying those things. 
 <br>[07:25:00]
 
And I'm proud to be able to do that last night and give voice to tens of millions of people in this country, if not hundreds of millions of people who believe we can do better than Joe Biden and Donald Trump.  
 
HARLOW: We will see you again I'm sure before, but we'll see you on the debate stage on September 27th.  
 
Governor Chris Christie, thanks very much for the time this morning.  
 
CHRISTIE: Thanks for having me on, Poppy. I look forward to seeing you again soon. 
 
HARLOW: Victor.
 
BLACKWELL:  All right. Excellent interview. Let's bring it to the table now CNN Political Commentator and former Special Adviser to President Obama Van Jones, CNN Political Commentator and former Trump Campaign Adviser David Urban and CNN Senior Legal Analyst Elie Honig.
 
David, let me start with you. First question to Governor Christie was his strongest moment, he said, telling the truth about Trump, holding a strategy. Do you agree.
 
DAVID URBAN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  Poppy was a tough questioner there.
 
BLACKWELL:  Right, yes.
 
VAN JONES, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  She was on him.
 
URBAN:  He had a -- I love Chris Christie. I think he had a challenging night last night kind of breaking through the cacophony. But, yes, I think his strongest moment was actually when he kind of praised Mike Pence standing next to him for standing up and defending the Constitution and said, not only did Mike Pence do the right thing, it was politically unpopular, he did so at his own peril. I mean, he really -- by praising Mike Pence, I think it reflected very well upon himself. So, I think that was his strongest moment.
 
HARLOW:  Just a fact check, Van, before we get to you. The governor said it wasn't true. He did support a 20-week ban on abortion. This was back in his first presidential campaign in 2015. It's important where he stands now but that's just a point of fact. Van, your thoughts.
 
JONES:  Last night, he was a bull fighter when no bull. He was there to fight Donald Trump. He was like a matador and there's no bull. So, he's just a weird guy in tights. And so it didn't work for him last night.
 
BLACKWELL:  Weird guy in tights?
 
JONES:  That's what I'm saying. He didn't work for him last night. He was there to fight Donald Trump. Donald Trump wasn't there. And so he looked kind of like lost on stage. And he was upstaged by Vivek, as was everybody else last night.
 
I think it's unfortunate because I think what Chris Christie is doing is a national service by sticking up for not just the best in the Republican Party but the best in the country, by holding Donald Trump to a high standard. But last night, I think those of us who expected to see The Chris Christie Show couldn't find it last night on the air. ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST:  You know what I thought was so interesting? When the moderator asked the eight panelists, the eight candidates, if Donald Trump is convicted, will you still support him? And that's a question I've been asking our political folks. Because up until he's convicted, you can fairly say, well, he's charged, but he's presumed innocent, so let's see how it plays out. But if there comes a point of conviction, is that going to shake anyone loose?
 
And, sure enough, what was the vote count, two, Christie and Asa Hutchinson saying, of course, not. But the other six said, yes, we still would, put their hands up. I found that -- maybe I'm naive. I found that surprising.
 
BLACKWELL:  Including Mike Pence.
 
HONIG:  Including Mike, right, who's a victim in the case.
 
HARLOW:  And if the if convicted part that's really important.
 
HONIG:  That's what made the question a good question and the answer so telling.
 
URBAN:  Well, you know, the question that wasn't asked, and maybe Fox couldn't do this because of their lawsuit was, do you think Donald Trump won the election, right? Nobody asked the question. Nobody asked them, do you think Donald Trump won the election in 2020? They asked about January 6th a little bit, did Mike Pence do the right thing, but nobody said, do you think he won or lost, right? And I think that would have been telling to hear the answers on that.
 
BLACKWELL:  All right, let's look ahead. So, today, the president will leave Bedminster, head to Georgia to turn himself in. What should we expect? This will be, in some ways, a spectacle that the former president will exploit politically.
 
HONIG:  He certainly will. I mean, look, we keep saying this is unprecedented. This is highly precedented now. This is the fourth time in five months or so that we've been through this. He will go through the same routine. He will fundraise and all of that.
 
The thing to keep in mind, though, is what's happening today is so normal. It happens all the time. 24/7, that jail count is open, the Fulton County Jail, and people come through there and they're processed.
 
And I will say, thus far, in the Fulton County case to, really, the credit of the prosecutor and the sheriffs and the authorities down there, it's been by the book, it's been straightforward. We haven't had any drama, we haven't had any disruption.
 
So, let's hope that happens. But, again, he's got four battles now going on at once. I don't know if it's going to hurt him politically, but the stakes are different in the court.
 
HARLOW:  We know it's not, Van. I mean, his poll numbers are up after all of these indictments. They're up. They're not flat. They're not down there, up.
 
JONES:  It's mirror world. In one world, I don't know, trying to overthrow the government is a bad idea and maybe disqualifying. In another world, he's a martyr for -- he's sacrificing himself on the altar of justice and truth. It's hard to understand that from this side of the table, but there are people who truly believe that the fact that they're going after him means he must be on our side.
 
URBAN:  And what's instructive, I think, you know, you heard Chris Christie talk about his polling numbers. All eight of those candidates there last night, if you add up their polling numbers, it still don't beat Trump all together. If you stack them all on one top of each other, they still don't match Trump's numbers.
 <br>[07:30:02]
 
So, what does that say about America, guilty, not guilty?
 
HARLOW:  I know we've got to go.