Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: General Mark Milley Retires; Interview With Sen. Ben Cardin (D- MD); Senator Dianne Feinstein Dies; Government Shutdown Grows Closer. Aired 1-1:30p ET

Aired September 29, 2023 - 13:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:01:05]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST:  Washington in gridlock amid a fast- approaching deadline, a government shutdown now just hours away, and the ripple effects go far beyond the nation's Capitol. How this could impact Americans across the country. 
 
And a trailblazer has passed. Tributes pouring in for Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein, the longest-serving female U.S. senator in history. We will look at the powerful impact she made on the nation. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST:  State of emergency, dangerous and life- threatening flooding in parts of the Northeast. 
 
We are talking a month's worth of rain in just three hours in some places. We are following these major developing stories and many more all coming in right here to CNN NEWS CENTRAL. 
 
SANCHEZ:  We start this afternoon with the latest on Capitol Hill, where the house is set to vote on the president on a short-term spending bill that has little to no chance of passing. It means the impending government shutdown is likely to start fewer than 36 hours from now. 
 
As for the Senate, a short-term solution both Republicans and Democrats have agreed to is also unlikely to get approved before midnight on Saturday, when the current funding runs out. So now federal agencies across the board are getting ready for a work stoppage and for more than a million federal workers, including our military men and women, for a -- there to be a halt in the work -- or, rather, for there not to be a halt in the work, just the paycheck. 
 
Let's get you the latest from Capitol Hill now with CNN's Melanie Zanona. 
 
So, Melanie, why is House Speaker Kevin McCarthy moving ahead with this stopgap bill, when it stands almost no chance of actually passing? 
 
MELANIE ZANONA, CNN CAPITOL HILL REPORTER:  Well, Boris, the reason why Kevin McCarthy is doing that is because he needs to show that he has exhausted all of his options before he moves on to a Plan B, or, in this case, probably a plan C. But what that plan is remains a mystery. Even some of his own
 
 leadership team say they are completely in the dark about what happens next after this likely failed vote on the House floor, which they will be voting on in a little bit from now. 
 
But Kevin McCarthy did make one thing clear earlier today. He is not willing, at least at this point, to cut a deal with Democrats. Let's take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA):  It's easy to surrender. If you want to surrender, yes. But if you want to fight for the American public to secure our borders and keep government open, how is that a problem? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZANONA:  Now, over on the other side of the Capitol, the Senate is working on a bipartisan plan to fund the government. 
 
It does not include border security provisions or spending cuts. It does include $6 billion for Ukraine and $6 billion for disaster relief. And it does have wide bipartisan support. It had the support of both Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, and Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader. 
 
But even over there, they're also running into problems. Senator Rand Paul said he is going to slow down this bill as much as possible as long as it still has Ukraine money in it, which Senate leaders make clear they're not willing to strip out. 
 
And so the Senate might not even vote on their bill until Sunday or Monday, which would put it past that government funding deadline, so a lot of key decisions here, particularly for Kevin McCarthy, as he weighs what his next steps are, whether he's going to try to work with Democrats, whether he's going to ignore the Senate bill if it comes over, whether he's going to allow a government shutdown.
 
And what happens to his speakership is, of course, on the line -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Yes, a lot of threats to remove him as speaker now coming from hard-liners. 
 
Melanie Zanona on Capitol Hill, thanks so much -- Brianna.
 
KEILAR:  A government shutdown would mean more than two million active-duty military service members and reservists would be forced to report for duty and not get paid for it. This includes about 50,000 members of the Coast Guard. 
 
Their paychecks stop. Their bills do not. Service members and their families will be facing mounting rent, mortgage, childcare payments, grocery bills. 
 
We're joined now by Jessica Manfre, who is a spouse of a member of the Coast Guard. 
 <br>[13:05:00]
 
Jessica, thank you to you and your family, of course, for your service. I'm sure this doesn't feel like a thank you, what you're dealing with right now as you watch this shutdown looming. 
 
JESSICA MANFRE, COAST GUARD MUTUAL ASSISTANCE:  No, it's incredibly frustrating. Thank you for having me on to be able to shed light and give voice to our families. 
 
It feels like it was just yesterday that we went through this. And here we are again. And it's almost a form of PTSD, if you will. I have been hearing from families for the last week. And it's -- the anxiety is mounting. 
 
KEILAR:  So, how are families preparing for this, especially the ones who are young and haven't been through this before? 
 
MANFRE:  Well, I think it's incumbent upon us as seasoned spouses to educate them, walk them through it. 
 
I, myself, whether the 2013 and 2019 shutdown, this time around, I am a case manager for Coast Guard Mutual Assistance really getting the word out that we're going to stand in the gap. In 2019, they gave $8.4 million to our families and supported them with mortgage, rent, et cetera. 
 
And I think the key thing to point out is, even with supports like this, the second the funding is shut off, that means our donations, which are primarily allotments from our Coasties, also shut off. So there's going to be an incredible need. 
 
And if the American people are looking for a way to help, the relief societies are certainly a way to do that. But that's not everything. That doesn't put food in the fridge. That doesn't pay the day care bill or the gas. There's just so many things that are a part of this, like WIC shutting off. 
 
There are -- I mean, I don't have the exact numbers, but I know our junior families use WIC heavily. 
 
KEILAR:  The Women -- you're talking about the Women, Infants, and Children program, which we have heard from the agriculture secretary they only have federal funding for that to go about a day or maybe two days after a shutdown begins. 
 
I think that's a thing, Jessica, that many Americans don't realize. There's a lot of food insecurity in the military, even when there isn't a shutdown. 
 
MANFRE:  Absolutely. 
 
We were running a food pantry in New Jersey when I was stationed at Cape May -- that's the home of the Coast Guard's boot camp -- long before we had a shutdown. Now, it was smaller, obviously, but the need is still there. 
 
And I full-time am a therapist. I see a lot of our Coast Guard families here in my office as a therapist. We're a small community. And I'm referring them to places like United Way or Catholic Charities. The need is always there. Inflation's high. It's hard. Most Americans tend to live paycheck to paycheck.
 
Depending on what study you look at, it's anywhere from 47 percent or almost 61 percent. So it's going to have significant impacts, and now it's the entire military. And I have friends of every branch. I have friends that are Customs and Border Patrol agents, friends that are air traffic controllers. 
 
I mean, it gets me a little choked up because I'm also thinking about the food service workers and the sanitation workers. Like, this is so widespread. And the mental toll it's going to take is pretty significant. 
 
KEILAR:  We should also be clear, the Coast Guard falls under DHS. It doesn't fall under DOD. 
 
So, even though, right now, there is not a carve-out for the military, and so it's looking like all branches are going to be affected, it seems like the Coast Guard is constantly affected. You mentioned 2013, 2019. Here we are again 2023. 
 
What is your message to Congress, and who are you holding to account for this? 
 
MANFRE:  I think about my children, right? What is the advice that I give them when they go to school or they're out in the world, and they have issues with people? 
 
I hone in on communication, conflict resolution. You don't have an opportunity to just not come up with a solution. You can't walk away from it. And it sounds kind of silly to bring that message to our legislators, but that's really where I'm at. 
 
This isn't a game. We aren't pieces on a chessboard. Like, these are human lives that you're impacting by this political grandstanding. It doesn't take someone who is Ivy League-educated to understand that there are vast differences in the way that we believe in things, the values that we hold. 
 
But the reality is, you still have to come together. You still have to run a country. So figure it out. 
 
KEILAR:  Figure it out. 
 
Jessica Manfre, it is great to hear from you and hear from people who are actually going to be affected so severely by this. We appreciate your time today. Thank you. 
 
MANFRE:  Yes, thank you so much.
 
KEILAR:  Boris. SANCHEZ:  Tributes are continuing to pour in for Senator Dianne
 
 Feinstein. 
 
The California Democrat has died at the age of 90. She was the longest-serving female senator in U.S. history, also the first female senator -- or the first female mayor of San Francisco. Feinstein served in Congress since 1992 and worked right up until yesterday, casting her final vote on the Senate floor voting on legislation to try and prevent a government shutdown. 
 <br>[13:10:06]
 
Former Congresswoman Jane Harman actually met with Feinstein just yesterday, and today talked about that visit and the impact the senator had on those she met over the years. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
FMR. REP. JANE HARMAN (D-CA):  I probably had the last meeting with her. At late afternoon yesterday, I went to her home, her study. We spent an hour together looking at old pictures and talking about the future. 
 
And as we were leaving, her housekeeper took this beautiful picture. I want everyone to remember Dianne this way, strong, elegant. No one is like her. I loved her very much. And I'm so glad I got the last hug and kiss. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ:  We're joined now by Maryland Democratic Senator Ben Cardin. 
 
Senator, first and foremost, our condolences for the loss of your friend and colleague. 
 
You served with Senator Feinstein in the House and the Senate. I'm wondering what some of your fondest memories are of her. 
 
SEN. BEN CARDIN (D-MD):  Well, the Senate is a family. It's a Senate family, and we're grieving today. It's hard for us to imagine that Dianne is gone. 
 
She was such a presence in the United States Senate. I have so many memories with her. When I first came to the Senate in 2007, I had the opportunity to serve on the Judiciary Committee. She was a mentor. She wanted to understand my priorities. She wanted to understand a little bit about the concerns that I had. 
 
She was very instrumental in helping me form my views on how to set up the safeguards within the intelligence community. And she was very patient in trying to explain the needs. I was so impressed that she had a reputation, well-deserved, of being very strong, very tough, of being very effective, but also a great communicator, working across party lines to get things done. 
 
So we worked on many issues in which we were able to bridge the gap between Democrats and Republicans, thanks to Dianne Feinstein's leadership. So, yes, I think the only time we really disagreed is when the San Francisco Giants and the Baltimore Ravens were in the Super Bowl. The Ravens won. 
 
But, other than that, it was a real -- actually, San Francisco 49ers. It was a real friendship, close friendship, and a real loss. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Yes, we noted some of her firsts. She was the first female senator from California, the first female mayor of San Francisco, again, the longest-serving female senator in U.S. history. She broke a lot of glass ceilings. 
 
What do you think she will be remembered most for? 
 
CARDIN:  I think her passion gun safety is going to be still motivating us today. 
 
I remember talking to her one-on-one about the tragedy when she became mayor of San Francisco. It stuck with her. And it was something that she could never quite get out of her mind. So I think she will be known as a reasonable voice for gun safety legislation. 
 
I think she also will be known for her commitment to the proper relationship between our intelligence community and protecting citizens' rights. I think she will also be known as a strong believer to help consumers in this country. The list goes on and on and on. 
 
She was so instrumental in so many bills that moved through the United States Senate, but I think she will best be known as a person who broke so many glass ceilings, who always was there, that was a great leader in the United States Senate, one of the giants. 
 
One of the great things of being in the United States Senate, the people you get to serve with, and I have served with people who are going to be known in our history books as some of the great senators of our time. Dianne Feinstein will be one of those. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Senator, obviously, we're talking to you at a time of enormous gridlock on Capitol Hill, as we're facing a potential shutdown. 
 
And you noted the bipartisan nature of the condolences and messages of support that have been coming forward. I'm wondering what you think Congress could learn from someone like Dianne Feinstein that garnered so much respect from both sides of the aisle, even at times of enormous acrimony. 
 
CARDIN:  Well, quite frankly, what we need are more Dianne Feinsteins that recognize civility is the way to get things accomplished. 
 
I don't know of a single member of the United States Senate, I don't know of anyone who did not have the utmost respect for the manner in which Dianne Feinstein conducted herself. She listened, she was principled, and she was focused on bringing people together. That's what we need right now. [13:15:01]
 
And this government shutdown is reckless, dangerous, and costly. I'm pleased that, in the Senate, we're able to move forward on bipartisan bill that reflects the agreement reached by Speaker McCarthy and President Biden on the debt ceiling. 
 
That's not the case in the House of Representatives. I would hope that they would take a page out of Dianne Feinstein's book and sit down and listen to each other. Speaker McCarthy, work with the Democrats. Live up to your agreements. That's Dianne Feinstein. And let's make sure we keep government open. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Senator, while we have you, we have to ask about the news regarding Senator Bob Menendez. You temporarily replaced him as chair of the Foreign Relations Committee after his indictment on federal bribery charges. 
 
More than two dozen of your fellow Democrats have called on him to resign. You, though, have not. What's your message to the senator and to your colleagues calling on him to step down? 
 
CARDIN:  Well, this is a tragic situation. I'm honored now to be the chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, but the manner in which this happened is something I didn't want to see. 
 
So it's a tragic situation that reflects on all of us. My focus right now is to be able to lead the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for our national security by investing in diplomacy and making sure that we operate within our values. That's what I have to focus on. 
 
Senator Menendez is entitled to his day in court. I think it is a situation that I hope we can resolve. But it's something that I have to focus on my responsibilities on the committee. 
 
SANCHEZ:  So, it sounds like you're not calling for his resignation. You want the legal process to play out? 
 
CARDIN:  I will be expressing myself where I think it's needed. 
 
I have already expressed myself as to the seriousness of the charges. Let me remind you that these charges did reflect on him as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. My responsibility is to restore the public confidence in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and its chairman. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Senator Ben Cardin, we thank you so much for your time.
 
And, again, our condolences for Senator Feinstein. Thank you. 
 
CARDIN:  Thank you. 
 
SANCHEZ:  Of course. 
 
Still to come on CNN NEWS CENTRAL: a farewell tribute after a controversial tenure, top U.S. General Mark Milley handing over the reins. 
 
Plus, New York City dealing with life-threatening flooding in the city's wettest day in years. Apparently, there's still more wet weather to come. 
 
And the FDA putting a new side effect warning label on Ozempic. We will break down why in just moments. 
 
Stay with CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:21:50]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  ... the secretary of the Army, the following general officer, is retired. General Mark A. Milley.
 
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ:  Joint Chiefs Chairman General Mark Milley has officially retired after holding the military's top job for the last four years and spending more than four decades serving the country. 
 
Just last hour, General Milley passed the baton to his new replacement, General C.Q. Brown, during a special farewell ceremony at the Pentagon. Milley's retirement comes after a tumultuous tenure that spanned some of the most chaotic political moments of the Trump administration. 
 
During his speech, the general appeared to take a shot at the former president. Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GEN. MARK MILLEY, FORMER CHAIRMAN, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF:  And we don't take an oath to a wannabe dictator. We don't take an oath to an individual. We take an oath to the Constitution and we take an oath to the idea that is America, and we're willing to die to protect it. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ:  General Milley helps steer the country through the January 6 attack on the Capitol, the chaotic U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, and the high-stakes maneuvering around the war in Ukraine. 
 
President Biden honored the general, calling him a leader of great strength. 
 
And, Brianna, we should note those comments from General Milley about a wannabe dictator come as his former boss is really criticizing him pretty openly. 
 
KEILAR:  Yes, no doubt.
 
In fact, as General Milley retires, he may have the distinction of being the first chairman of the Joint Chiefs seen off with violent threats from a former commander in chief, Donald Trump, of course, here. 
 
Milley telling "60 Minutes" this weekend that he's had to take security measures to protect his family. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MILLEY:  As much as these comments are directed at me, it's also directed at the institution of the military. And there's 2.1 million of us in uniform. 
 
And the American people can take it to the bank that all of us, every single one of us, from private to general, we're loyal to that Constitution, and we will never turn up back on it, no matter what, no matter what the threats, no matter what the humiliation, no matter what. 
 
NORAH O'DONNELL, HOST, "CBS EVENING NEWS":  Are you worried about your safety? 
 
MILLEY:  I have got adequate safety precautions. I -- I wish those comments had not been made, but they were, and we will take appropriate measures to ensure my safety and the safety of my family. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR:  So here are the comments that Milley is referring to. 
 
It's a post from Trump saying that Milley's calls with his Chinese counterpart in the final days of his administration were an action so egregious that, in the past, they would have been punishable by death. 
 
According to multiple sources, mind you, these were calls where, in part, Milley sought to calm his counterpart in China by reassuring him that the U.S. was not considering an attack on China. Sources say there were 15 people on these video calls. And Trump is saying that Milley should have been killed for them -- quote -- "in times gone by."
 
Well, this is the violent rhetoric that Trump and also his allies have become known for, the most famous example, of course, being this one on January 6, 2021. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  We fight. We fight like hell. And if you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore. 
 <br>[13:25:03]
 
RUDY GIULIANI, FORMER ATTORNEY FOR PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP:  Let's have trial by combat!
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR:  We all know what happened after that, 114 police officers injured. One police officer died the day after the attack. Four have died by suicide in the aftermath. 
 
And four of Trump's supporters died, including one shot by Capitol Police while at the front of a mob of people climbing through the shattered window of a door just feet from where lawmakers were sheltering in place. 
 
Before January 6, Trump's violent rhetoric was long criticized for what it might inspire, but, after January 6, it was no longer an exercise in hypotheticals. 
 
Kelly Meggs, a member of the far right Oath Keepers group, convicted of seditious conspiracy for his role in the attack on the Capitol, wrote two weeks before the insurrection: "Trump said, it's going to be wild, it's going to be wild. He wants us to make it wild. That's what he's saying. He called us all to the Capitol and wants us to make it wild. Sir, yes, sir."
 
So, we all know the stakes. Trump knows the stakes. They're sky-high, and yet Trump is undeterred, repeatedly threatening those who he perceives to be his enemies, like the prosecutors and the judges involved in the four indictments that he is now facing.
 
There's Fulton County DA Fani Willis, who is trying Trump for alleged election interference in Georgia. She says that she and her staff have received violent and racist threats. Judge Tanya Chutkan, presiding over Trump's federal election interference case, she has security because she's received death threats. 
 
And then there's Manhattan DA Alvin Bragg, who is trying Trump for his alleged hush money payments to an adult film star. Trump has reposted a picture of himself with a baseball bat next to Trump's -- pardon me -- next to Bragg's head. It's not very subtle here. 
 
And the judge in this case, in this Manhattan case, has warned Trump through his attorneys -- quote -- "not to make any statements that would incite any violence or threats against any officials."
 
And, in 2022, when Senate Republicans joined Senate Democrats in a vote, a pretty simple one, to keep the government open, Trump said that Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell had a death wish. If you listen to people from the Trump White House, they will tell you the violence is the point. It is the feature, not the bug. 
 
Here's what Cassidy Hutchinson, former aide to Trump's chief of staff, Mark Meadows, told my colleague Jake Tapper just this week. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CASSIDY HUTCHINSON, FORMER AIDE TO MARK MEADOWS:  Donald Trump knows the impact of his words. And when he -- on January 6, when he wanted to go to the Capitol, everything -- that that was intentional. 
 
The Mark Milley tweet that you earlier mentioned from this past weekend, he knows the impact that those words will have. He knows that people will come out and be violent against these people. 
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST:  Yes. 
 
HUTCHINSON:  And that's what he wants. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR:  It's intentional, she says. That's what he wants. 
 
And we will be right back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)