Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Philadelphia Mass Shooting; Philadelphia Brings Legal Action Against Two Ghost Gun Providers; Murder and Aggravated Assault Charges Brought Against Suspect in Deadly Philadelphia Shooting; Russia's War on Ukraine; Rare Opportunity for CNN to Interview Russian Prisoners of War in Ukraine; June, Hottest Month Ever on Earth. Aired 10:30-11a ET

Aired July 06, 2023 - 10:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  In Philadelphia, we are learning new details about some of the victims killed after a gunman went on a deadly rampage shooting five and killing five people at random on a city street, according to police. Ralph Morales, was 59 years old, he was out shopping with his daughter when he was killed. He was set to walk his daughter down the aisle at her wedding this weekend. Lashyd Merritt was set on a quick a run to the corner store for a snack when he came face-to-face with the shooter, he was just 22 years old. And 31-year-old Joseph Wamah Jr.'s body was found in a home Tuesday morning. His twin sister told CNN her brother was a talented artist with a great sense of humor. The two other victims were 15 and 29 years old.
 
In the investigations, the district attorney's office says that the shooting suspect, obviously, planned the rampage. As for his state of mind, the D.A. says that he was suffering from mental health issues and exhibiting abnormal behavior. When searching his home, investigators found a handwritten will dated June 23rd, a handgun ammunition and live rounds. Officials says, this points them to the conclusion that this was all premeditated.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LARRY KRASNER, PHILADELPHIA DISTRICT ATTORNEY:  We know exactly who did it. All the indications are that he did it alone. And in terms of the act itself, we see all kinds of indications of premeditations in the weapons he brought, the way he brought them, the clothing that he was wearing, things of that sort. But when you get into issues of psychological state, motivation, intent, beyond the obviously, which is that he obviously planned this.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER:  The suspect was arraigned on murder charges yesterday. At the time of the arrest, police say, the firearms found in his possession, an AR-style weapon and handgun, both were ghost guns. A ghost gun is a weapon that doesn't have any markings and is not traceable. In the past three years, ghost guns confiscations in Philadelphia have increased 300 percent. And now the City of Philadelphia is suing the two largest suppliers of the ghost guns.
 
Joining me now to discuss this, Former Deputy director of the FBI, Andrew McCabe. Thank you so much for being here. Do you think that the city's lawsuit could have a real impact on trying to get ghost guns off the streets?
 
ANDREW MCCABE, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST AND FORMER FBI DEPUTY DIRECTOR:  Well, Sara, we don't know yet. But I think it's an admirable step, and it's one of the things that mayors of big cities can do to start to address this because, obviously, we haven't addressed it on a federal level. And just to be clear for your viewers, ghost guns are not just unserialized, they are actually sold as a kit of all the necessary parts of a firearm. It comes to your house, through the internet, or you can buy them at gun shows and other places. And then, really, anyone with any sort of mechanical ability can take those parts and turn it into a fully functioning lethal firearm. And it has no serial number and it cannot be traced.
 
And just to put some perspective on it, in Philadelphia in 2019, they seized five of these ghost guns in the commissions of crime. Last year, there with somewhere around 590. So, the use of these kits, these ghost guns has gone through the roof. And big city mayors have got to try to do something to limit the number of guns falling into the hands of people who cannot lawfully possess them. And so, the lawsuit is one step in that direction.
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
SIDNER:  Would you say that, you know, from the law enforcement perspective, that ghost guns are the perfect firearm for someone who wants to commit any illegal act because they aren't traceable?
 
MCCABE:  That's absolutely right. They're also perfect for people who the law specifically prohibits from owning or possessing firearms. There's absolutely no background check that you have to subject yourself to to buy a kit, a box of parts over the internet. So, they are almost designed, and in many cases, specifically marketed to people who cannot pass the federal firearms background systems process.
 
So, they're -- this is a literally a product that was developed and is now marketed to evade the law, to evade normal handgun safety regulations that we all know and accept as a part of Second Amendment exercise in this country. These things are designed to evade that regimen, and they should be stopped.
 
SIDNER:  All right. I do want to ask you now to the suspect in that fatal shooting in Philadelphia where five people were killed. He is, according to police, said that he was trying to, "Clean up the neighborhood." What does this tell you about his mentality?
 
MCCABE:  You know, Sara, we have seen -- sadly, we have seen this many, many times in the last few years. Most mass shooters share some combination of these similar issues. Struggles with mental health, isolation, deep-seeded grievances against other populations. Here you have, apparently, this man made all kinds of statements about who he felt was responsible for the crime on streets, which he was allegedly going out to help solve. And of course, an obsession with firearms possession and ownership.
 
Here's a guy who has a prior firearms conviction, probably couldn't qualify to purchase a firearm and yet he's posting how Joe Biden is trying to get rid of his access to firearms. So, these sorts of mental health issues, grievances, they are frequently the fuel that drives mass shooters to believe that a mass shooting or an act of violence is the only option for them, and that seems like what's happened in this case. We'll of course find out more as the case goes forward, but a very common story here.
 
SIDNER:  You mentioned the social media post. He posted a lot of things about guns and loss of freedoms. Does it tell you that he, you know, was looking at social media and that helped to propel him forward, or is this something you see as something that investigators would really delve into to see if he was radicalized as well?
 
MCCABE:  So, the social media footprint is always one of the first things that investigators go to, because it really gives you a look into their potential radicalization, what their motivations may have been, most importantly whether or not they're connected to any other like-minded individuals. And also, it just kind of shows you what brought them to this point, which I had to learn something from that process. So, we will find out more as that investigation goes on. But, you know, this guy seems to have all the hallmarks of a typical mass shooter, and was posting frequently on social media, so there's a lot there to work with.
 
SIDNER:  An Andrew McCabe, it is always a pleasure to see you, unfortunately under these circumstances. Thank you so much. I appreciate you.
 
John.
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  Two New Jersey firefighters were killed overnight while trying to put out the flames on a cargo ship in the Port of Newark. Authorities say, the two became trapped inside the ship. No word yet on what caused the fire. Their names have not been released.
 
The home where four University of Idaho students were murdered is set to be demolished even though three of the victims' families have asked the university to keep it standing until after suspect Bryan Kohberger's trial. The university has not returned our request for comment but a spokesperson said last month they'd hoped to knockdown the house before the start of the fall semester.
 
On Long Island here in New York, an increase in shark patrols, this after five people were bitten in what authorities call a large-by -- what authorities call a large marine animal, most likely a shark, and it happened in a 24-hour period. The increased patrols will use drones to spot schools of sharks.
 
Kate -- amity, as you know, means friendship.
 
KATE BOLDUAN, CNN NEWS CENTRAL CO-ANCHOR:  And as you know, I love sharks. I do.
 
Coming up, the moment Russian soldiers are captured in Bakhmut, what they then tell CNN about fighting for Vladimir Putin on the front lines. We'll be back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
BERMAN:  Ukraine says, fighting is very hot right now around Donetsk and Luhansk, which with dozens of combat engagements. Ukrainian fighters say that they're feeling -- they're optimistic about the progress around Bakhmut, claiming that they've recaptured a number of territories and caused big losses to Russian forces. Well, now, CNN is speaking with several Russian prisoners of war who surrendered to the Ukrainians. Extraordinary accounts about life fighting for Russia on the front lines. Here is Ben Wedeman.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover):  No longer on the front lines, Anton, recounts how he ended up a prisoner of war.
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
Back in Russia, he was behind bars for the third time for drugs.
 
When they put me in prison, I heard they were recruiting, serve six months and they pardon you, he tells me.
 
So, he signed up with Storm Z, a unit made up of convicts attached to the Russian defense ministry. After two weeks of basic training, he was shipped off to the front lines near Bakhmut. After day of intense shelling, no food and only rainwater to drink, he heard Ukrainian troops outside his foxhole. He assumed they would execute him.
 
I thought that was the end, he recalls, I switched my rifle to single shot mode and thought, I'll shoot myself but I couldn't.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  (Speaking in a foreign language).
 
WEDEMAN (voiceover):  This video shot by soldiers of Ukraine's 3rd Assault Brigade showed the tense moments when Anton and his comrade, Slava. The Ukrainian troops told them, unlike Russians, we don't kill prisoners.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  (Speaking in a foreign language).
 
WEDEMAN (voiceover):  We spoke to Anton, Slava, and another soldier in a makeshift jail in Eastern Ukraine, concealing their faces and not using their real names. The 3rd Assault Brigade granted us access to the POWs and two of their soldiers were in the room for the interview. The POWs will soon be transferred to Ukrainian intelligence. They didn't appear to be under duress and agreed to share their stories.
 
Slava, also serving time for drugs said condition in the trenches were grim.
 
Food was scarce. We didn't have medical kits, he says. His commanders took all the painkillers to get high, he recalled, and as a result, issued nonsensical orders. Morale was terrible.
 
Sergei was wounded by a grenade before surrendering to Ukrainian troops. He was a contract soldier, not a convict. He completed his six-month contract in Kherson and went home. But when he hesitated to sign another contract, a military prosecutor gave him a choice, prison or back to the front. He ended up outside Bakhmut, under constant Ukrainian fire, discipline collapsed. The officers fled. All illusions were shattered.
 
It was very different from what I saw on T.V., a parallel reality, says Sergei. I felt fear, pain, and disappointment in my commanders.
 
A law passed last year in Russia, imposed sentences of three to 10 years for soldiers who surrender voluntarily. If he returns home in a prisoner exchange, Anton may end up again back in a Russia prison.
 
Ben Wedeman, CNN, Eastern Ukraine.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SIDNER:  Incredible reporting there by our Ben Wedeman. Thanks to him and his team.
 
Now, checking on some of our other top international stories, officials say at least 15 people are dead and four others missing after severe flooding in Southwest China. The region has been battered by torrential rainfall for days now. According to state media, more than 85,000 people have now displaced.
 
All right. At least 26 people are dead and 34 others injured after a bus fell into a ravine in Oaxaca, Mexico. 15 people are in serious condition. Now, authorities say, that bus fell about 60 feet. The cause of the crash is under investigation.
 
And a state of emergency has been declared in Southern Peru after the Ubinas volcano erupted on Tuesday. Experts say, ash from the explosion went about three miles up in the air, you see that extraordinary video there, and that additional eruptions could result in ash fall around the entire region.
 
John.
 
BERMAN:  All right. The hottest day ever, which is a long time, on Earth. Is there any relief in sight? Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:50:00] BERMAN:  So, we just saw the hottest day ever on Earth, at least since records have been kept and that's long enough. In Death Valley, national park service rangers say a 65-year-old man died inside his, which had two flat tires. The temperatures there reached 126 degrees. Across the country, broke or tied heats records including El Paso, which hit 107. Cities in the Pacific Northwest also reached triple digits. So, the news is that we just learned this morning that June, the month of June, was the hottest, on record, by a huge margin.
 
CNN Chief Climate Correspondent Bill Weir join us now. A hot June, Bill. Very hot.
 
BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT:  Very hot. And, you know, we tend to talk about the weather in terms of daily events or even monthly events. But if you look at the trend line, nine of the 10 hottest Junes ever recorded were in the last 10 years. And we set the all-time record, this is the near surface average air temperature for the whole planet, just above 17 degrees Celsius on Monday, that's just a smidge under 63 degrees. It was broken on Tuesday, tied again yesterday.
 <br>[10:55:00]
 
And you say, well that temperature doesn't sound that dramatic, it sounds quite pleasant, 63 degrees Fahrenheit. But that includes the half of the planet that is in winter right now. So, we're also seeing high temperature in Antarctica. And one big reason why is Antarctica is missing sea ice, about the size of India that would otherwise be reflecting that sunlight, instead dark blue water absorbs that heat much more.
 
Maybe the scariest unit of measurement I've come across in my many years is Hiroshimas per second. That's the Hiroshima atomic bomb that went off in World War II. If you see Oppenheimer, think about the energy there, hitting the planet every second, it's now 10 of those per second. Just a few years ago, it was five Hiroshimas per second, we're now up to 10. So, the heat being absorbed by the oceans, and that's thing, we don't even taste it on the land, John, most of this is being hidden by the oceans, and now we're starting to feel it everywhere.
 
BERMAN:  First of all, that's a terrifying measurement when you say it like that, Hiroshimas per second. The idea that it's doubled in just the last few years, Bill, that really puts it in perspective. Thank you so much for that.
 
Kate.
 
BERMAN:  In just a few minutes, the man accused of helping Donald Trump hide classified documents after leaving the White House, he's going to be in court and he's preparing to enter his plea. We'll take you there, we're live on the ground in Miami.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:00:00]