Headline: CNN This Morning
Sub-headline: Protests Erupe in West Bank; Jordan Falls Short in Vote; Rep. Nick LaLota (R-NY) is Interviewed about the Speaker Race. Aired 8:30- 9a ET

Aired October 18, 2023 - 08:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:30:00] 
 
POPPY HARLOW, CNN ANCHOR: Again, that's our colleague, Ibrahim, who was trying to flee with his family and his young children. Our sincerest thanks and appreciation to all the journalists in the field that are risking their lives every day.
 
We'll be right back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ERIN BURNETT, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back. I'm Erin Burnett in Tel Aviv, Israel.
 
President Biden, right now here, in meetings, in Israel right now. He has met with the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. Appeared with him in his war cabinet. He said that based on the evidence he's seen, Biden said this, that the deadly blast at that Gaza hospital was caused by what he used as, quote, "the other team, not Israel." Of course, use of the word "teams" in that way is part of the reason why the world does see the United States so inextricably tied with Israel. 
 
The Palestinian Ministry of Health now says the death toll in the explosion has increased they say to at least 471 people. Whatever the final numbers are, it is a horror. 
 
And earlier this morning, the Israeli Defense Forces presented detailed evidence that they say shows the deadly blast at the hospital in Gaza was not their fault. 
 <br>[08:35:03]
 
They showed satellite imagery. They showed rocket trajectories. They showed intercepted communications. They showed all of it. Even so, though, massive pro-Palestinian protests are erupting throughout the region, in Baghdad, in Amman, in Jordan, in Beirut and Lebanon, in Tunis and Tunisia. 
 
And there are also clashes in the West Bank today between pro- Palestinian and pro-Israeli protesters. Those are clashes right across from here in the West Bank. 
 
Let's go straight to Ben Wedeman because he is live in southern Lebanon. 
 
And, Ben, it was, what, 2:15, 2:30 last -- this morning, I'm sorry, when you and I were speaking and you had seen those crowds start just hours after that blast at the hospital to gather in Beirut and try to break through some barriers heading in the direction of the U.S. embassy. 
 
What are you hearing and seeing now on the ground? 
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, in Beirut, just at the moment, there is a protest, a rally going on the southern suburbs of this city, organized by Hezbollah. Hezbollah had called for an unprecedented day of rage. 
 
What we're seeing in Lebanon is scattered protests, but I wouldn't call it unprecedented in any sense. But, nonetheless, the mood in Lebanon and throughout the Middle East is starting to worry U.S. officials. 
 
Here in Lebanon, the State Department has said that family members of U.S. government personnel and other non-emergency staff are now allowed to leave the country on a case-by-case basis. Keeping in mind that the staff of the U.S. embassy all live on the grounds of the embassy. It's a highly fortified installation. They rarely can go out except with armed escorts. But that certainly indicates a level of worry. 
 
And we're seeing the worries shared by others. The Canadian foreign minister has advised Canadians in Lebanon that they might consider booking flights out as long -- as long as there are commercial flights available. Swiss air, Lufthansa have announced they're no longer flying here. So, there are concerns that the situation, already very volatile, could get worse. 
 
Erin. 
 
BURNETT: All right, Ben Wedeman, thank you very much, in Lebanon. 
 
And, Phil, it is -- when you talk about airlines canceling flights, obviously they do it out of caution. They don't do it because something's already happened. They do it because there is the risk something could happen. 
 
Nonetheless, when you start to see these international carriers cancel flights, as they have already done here in Israel, now in Lebanon, it is, you know, an ominous feeling for everyone, and including so many people who want to get out and are unable to do so. 
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR: Yes, it just underscores just how volatile this moment is. Which you didn't think it could get more volatile 24 hours ago and yet here we are as these very consequential meetings are happening where you are. And one those meetings in Amman was canceled because of this moment that we're in. 
 
Erin Burnett, stay with us. We're going to come back to you. We're also keeping an, though, on Washington, where in just a few hours the House will take to the floor to vote again on Jim Jordan's nomination to be speaker. We'll have the latest. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[08:42:14]
 
MATTINGLY: Well, Ohio Congressman Jim Jordan's speaker bid is in peril this morning. Just hours from now, the House will hold - or is scheduled to hold a second speaker vote after Jordan lost in the first round.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No person having received a majority of the whole number of votes cast by surname, a speaker has not been elected. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: Now, Jordan has been reaching out to the 20 members his conference who voted against him on Tuesday and earlier this morning got an endorsement from the previous speaker, Congressman Kevin McCarthy. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA): The chaos was created by this crazy eights that are led by Gaetz and every single Democrat. So, now they voted to stop one branch of government. We're electing a new speaker. Jim Jordan is prepared to do that job. I lost about 20 on the first round, too. Coming into the second round, the thing I would look at, making sure that vote number goes up. If he can hold his votes, the number goes up, I think he can get there. And I believe that's exactly what will happen today. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MATTINGLY: Crazy eights led by Gaetz. The former speaker clearly has more time on his hands than he used to. 
 
Joining us now is CNN congressional correspondent Lauren Fox, live outside Congressman Jordan's office this morning. 
 
What's the game plan here? What are you hearing behind the scenes? 
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, well, look, today Jordan goes to the floor at 11:00 a.m. to try and pick up a couple of votes on the floor of the House of Representatives. But there's a real chance, Phil, that he could start to lose some of that support on the floor. There are a number of members we are watching who potentially may have voted for Jordan on the first round but may not stick with him on a second or third ballot.
 
If he starts to hemorrhage support, then you get into a situation where there are a number of active discussions happening right now among Republicans about bringing a resolution to the floor of the House as soon as today that would potentially empower McHenry to continue being the speaker pro-tem, but with additional power so that he could bring legislation to the floor. 
 
There is really a breaking point happening within the Republican conference right now as a number of members are looking around, seeing the reality, seeing that there is likely no one in their conference at this moment who could get the 217 votes needed to be the next speaker. In that case, you have a lot of Republicans who want to govern in this moment, in this moment of crisis. It has been more than two weeks without a speaker. It has been more than ten days since an attack in Israel. And you are potentially staring down a government shutdown in less than a month at this point. 
 
Those Republicans believe that it is a moment where McHenry needs to be empowered so he can start bringing legislation to the floor. If they introduce a resolution today, they have two legislative days to act on it. That means that there could be active discussions with Democrats because in all likelihood they are going to need Democratic support to get that effort across the finish line because there are a number of Republicans who are not going to support empowering McHenry. 
 <br>[08:45:11]
 
They want Jim Jordan to be the next speaker. They want that to be the focus at this moment. But, obviously, Phil, we are in a situation where it's basically groundhog's day. Every single day it is not clear who the Republican is who could lead this conference with such a narrow majority in this moment. 
 
Phil.
 
MATTINGLY: Yes, it's such a good point. It had been on the periphery, that idea of empowering speaker pro-tem Patrick McHenry, now very clearly moving towards the mainstream. 
 
Lauren Fox, thank you.
 
HARLOW: All right. Joining us now, Republican Congressman from New York, Nick LaLota. He is one of 20 Republicans who voted against Jim Jordan's bid to become speaker yesterday. Congressman, it's great to have you. Appreciate it.
 
REP. NICK LALOTA (R-NY): Good morning.
 
HARLOW: It is interesting Jim Jordan said yesterday, to Lauren's reporting, no one in our conference wants to see any type of coalition government with Democrats. What do you say? Would you be supportive, vote for a resolution that would empower the Speaker Pro Tem Patrick McHenry to try to keep the government open, let's say?
 
LALOTA: Well, I think the Speaker Pro Tem and some people get a little confused by that term, because there is some Latin in there. He is merely the temporary speaker. And when there is a vacancy in the office of speaker, I think the Speaker Pro Tem not only can act, he or she should act, much like the way a vice president can or should act in a vacancy at the office of president. There should be a continuity of government. This position, the Speaker Pro Tempore, was contemplated post 9/11 specifically for the continuity of government. Business should go on in the House of Representatives in spite of their being a bonafide speaker. And we should accept the fact, and it does not require a vote, in my opinion.
 
The Speaker Pro Tem has every right, duty and responsibility and authority to act in the absence of a bonafide speaker. I would encourage that he do so right away.
 
HARLOW: Full capacity as a vice president would in the analogy you're giving?
 
LALOTA: One more time on that please.
 
HARLOW: Just with full capacity of the speaker with the full abilities of a speaker as a vice president would in the analogy you just gave?
 
LALOTA: Yes, absolutely. He has every duty, right and responsibility of a bonafide speaker. This is not a position merely to be a caretaker of the election of the next speaker. We have a Clerk of the House of Representatives that can do that administrative function. This position was contemplated post 9/11 when our country was under attack, and we contemplated losing multiple elected officials at the highest level. Of course, logic would dictate. And what not to have gone to law school to come to this conclusion that the Speaker Pro Tem absolutely has every right, duty, and responsibility and authority to act in the absence of a bonafide speaker.
 
PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN ANCHOR: Congressman, I think the rub here, of the tension here is that Patrick McHenry, who is the Speaker Pro Tem, does have people that have gone to law school that disagree with your interpretation. I'm not saying who is right, one way or the other. And which brings a question, if he disagrees, would you support this resolution from a Congressman Dave Joyce to give him those powers you say he should have already?
 
LALOTA: Well, that's tricky, because everything is based upon legal precedents in this town, and specifically with roles that we have in the House. And if we facilitate a vote, we're affirming the failed notion that it requires a vote to act. So, I think that one should really seek some more legal guidance on this, and a vote probably taints the very notion that the Speaker has every single power assigned to -- the Speaker Pro Tem has every single power assigned to the speaker.
 
HARLOW: The other way to look at it is that a vote in the affirmative would set some precedent for this. What would it take to get you to a yes on Jordan?
 
LALOTA: Well, I've been speaking with Representative Jordan over the last couple of weeks since he became a candidate for speaker. And I've announced my criteria quite clearly. I'm looking for a reasonable Republican, a commonsense conservative, to lead the House of Representatives, and specifically in the 118th Congress, we understand that just several weeks from now the government runs out of money. I was one of the Republicans who supported funding the government to ensure that our troops got paid. We should not play games with soldier pay. And I've asked every single candidate for speaker who has approached me in the last couple of weeks, will you ensure the government gets funded? And that has been my number one criteria.
 
Yes, we should pursue the commitment to America. Yes, we should continue to reduce spending. But we must keep the government open. While we do so, we must show the troops that we will put them first. And I've asked that criteria of all of our candidates, including Representative Jordan, and I have not yet been satisfied by his answer.
 
MATTINGLY: What happens next? And I think the reason I asked that question, and I know everybody is asking the question right now, but in talking to people inside your conference, it actually feels like the opposition to Jordan may start growing as soon as the second vote. Do you think that's true?
 
LALOTA: Yes. I think that's likely. I think it's more likely that there are less Jordan votes on round two than in round one, especially if he doesn't address things like how to fund the government. 
 <br>[08:50:00]
 
That's a big issue for a number of us who are a no right now if there is no specific resolution on that, and we're not looking for promises. We are looking for bonafide actions, statements which will make it very clear that we're not going to play games with soldier pay moving forward.
 
Yes, we should negotiate with the administration who is weak on the border, who is spending a whole bunch of our future generation's tax dollars. We should negotiate from a position of strength. But, to use soldier pay as a bargaining chip is a red line for me.
 
HARLOW: I thought it was interesting that your fellow Republican who also didn't vote for Jim Jordan, Carlos Gimenez of Florida, voted for McCarthy and said, by the way, said, I'm not going to be part of a coup. Do you see it as a coup?
 
LALOTA: Yes. This is a political coup. Eight Republicans joined with 210 Democrats to remove a speaker who was making a lot of progress for our nation, who at times stepped across the aisle. And when we raised the debt ceiling, and we funded the government, was doing the right things to fulfill our commitment to America, to make life better for my constituents, obviously for Carlos's constituents as well, and to throw out somebody who was making that progress was a political coup, that needs to be addressed. We should reform the motion to vacate rule. One should not be able to merely vacate the speaker. One should have to come with a bonafide alternative to do so, or else we're going to end in this chaos every time.
 
It took McCarthy years to build relationships and to gain confidence and trust to get elected by his peers. And to think that somebody is going to be able to do it just in a couple of days or even a couple of weeks, is unreasonable. Those folks who voted to vacate the chair knew this chaos would ensue. They're responsible for it. And we need to find a way to move on. And perhaps the best way to do so is to have a Speaker Pro Tem run the House and to do the people's business, and to get that started right away.
 
MATTINGLY: Congressman, Nick LaLota of New York, we appreciate your time, sir. Thank you.
 
LALOTA: Thanks. 
 
HARLOW: And you're looking at live pictures of President Biden. What he's doing right now is he's meeting with families and first responders to the horrific Hamas attacks on Israel. He's set to speak live at any moment. Our Wolf Blitzer is here, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MATTINGLY: We are showing you live pictures right now of Beirut, Lebanon, outside the U.S. embassy. We have seen protests over the course of the last 12 or 13 hours in the wake of that explosion at a hospital in Gaza. And it appears to be escalating. 
 
At this same exact moment, President Biden is in Tel Aviv right now meeting with the families of those taken hostage, of those victims from the terror attack conducted by Hamas on October 7th, which has driven to this point. The president meeting behind the scenes with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, as well as his war cabinet. Now meeting with these families. He's expected to speak publicly in short order. 
 
Joining us now is CNN anchor of "The Situation Room," Wolf Blitzer. 
 
Wolf, the last 24 hours in a very unsettled situation, it's accelerated tenfold. 
 <br>[08:55:07]
 
Probably more. What can the president say today that could change the dynamic? 
 
WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR, "THE SITUATION ROOM": Well, he's going to continue to express his solid support for Israel. There's no doubt about that. There are serious problems, though, as a result of this hospital being blown up in Gaza, serious problems with other friendly countries in the region. 
 
I've covered the Middle East for a long time, U.S. relations with Israel, U.S. relations with Arab countries. And that leaders of the Palestinian Authority, Jordan and Egypt, were all supposed to meet with the president of the United States in Amman, Jordan. The fact that they decided, because of this hospital explosion, to cancel that visit, not meet with him, it's pretty extraordinary that the president of the United States would come all the way to the Middle East and three entities, the Palestinian Authority, Jordan and Egypt, Jordan and Egypt receive billions of dollars in U.S. economic and military assistance every year. 
 
HARLOW: Right.
 
BLITZER: The fact that their leadership would decide, you know, this is not a good time to meet with a visiting president who doesn't, you know, normally -- American presidents don't normally go to a war zone. And in this particular case, this president decided to go. The fact that they decided to cancel and not let him come to Amman, Jordan, to meet with them in-person, they'll do a phone conversation, but that's clearly not the same. 
 
HARLOW: Yes. And Christiane was saying earlier on the program, really unprecedented to have them cancel on him. 
 
BLITZER: Yes.
 
HARLOW: So, we see right now, live pictures of President Biden leaning into one of the things he does best, as consoler in chief. He can do this. He will make live remarks. But he will leave without those crucial meetings and potentially without any guarantee on getting humanitarian aid in, nor any clarity on what the end game is for Israel in Gaza. 
 
BLITZER: Yes, that humanitarian aid, it was so significant that he was going to meet with President El Sisi of Egypt -
 
HARLOW: Yes.
 
BLITZER: Which controls that whole southern part of Gaza, the exit, the border crossing, because he really wanted to try to convince President El Sisi to open up that Rafah border crossing and allow much more humanitarian assistance into Gaza. And the fact that they're not going to have a face-to-face meeting I think undermines that possibility. 
 
HARLOW: Really?
 
MATTINGLY: Wolf, you've done so much work in the region. You were referencing some of it. Have you ever seen it at this level? 
 
BLITZER: Well, they're -- I remember the 1967 six-day war, the Yom Kippur War. There was the Yom Kippur War in 1973, the six-day war in '67, I was much younger, obviously, I wasn't a reporter at that time, but, you know, there were wars between Israel and Egypt and Syria and Jordan in that particular -- '67, six-day war, and then '73 Yom Kippur War. You know, there were a lot of people that were killed. Those were major, major wars. 
 
This is a war with a terrorist organization named Hamas and Islamic Jihad, which is also in Gaza right now. And it's a lot different than a full-scale military to military state wars that Israel has had in the past. 
 
MATTINGLY: And to just tell people what they're watching on the other -- next to Wolf right now is President Biden standing next to Tony Blinken, the secretary of state. We're going to listen for a minute. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: And people coming together in community and national service. And, Mr. President and Mr. Secretary, the folks that we have gathered with us here today are representative of all of that and representative of the unity and the resilience of the Israeli people, and the light that is shining through this incredible darkness. 
 
Mr. Secretary.
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE: I've had the opportunity to meet so many Israelis over the last few days that I've been in and out of Israel. I've heard the stories. I've heard about the lives lost and changed forever. 
 
We know that virtually every Israeli has been touched by the bloody hand of Hamas. But what I found is a nation that's united, yes, in grief, but also united in resolve. And we know the pride that Israel takes and the ability to defend itself by itself. But as we want to make very clear, you don't have to do that because we're here. We're here, too, to make sure that you're able to defend yourselves and to deal with something that is, I think, on a basic human level almost unimaginable. It's so hard for any of us to process. We don't understand.
 
But it's been so important to meet and talk to so many of you because that's what makes it real. And no one understands that better, no one feels that more than the president of the United States. 
 
Mr. President.
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Folks, there's an Irish poet named William Butler Yeats, and he wrote a line - he said, too long a suffering makes a stone of the heart. Too long a suffering makes a stone of the heart. 
 <br>[09:00:03]
 
The thing that I found at just this real quick meeting with all of you is none of your hearts have turned to stone yet.