Headline: Inside Politics
Sub-headline: Alex Murdaugh Cross-Examined In His Murder Trail; Murdaugh: "I Never Manufactured Any Alibi" About Murders. Aired 12-12:30p ET

Aired February 24, 2023 - 12:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[12:00:00]
 
CREIGHTON WATERS, PROSECUTOR: After that you'll agree that Maggie's phone around 8:53 shows some steps being taken?
 
ALEX MURDAUGH: Is what the data shows, yes sir.
 
WATERS: Data that shows is correct. That's what it shows. Is that correct?
 
MURDAUGH: That is correct.
 
WATERS: And then you would agree with me that from nano-2 to nano-6, your phone finally comes to life and start showing a lot of steps.
 
MURDAUGH: That do agree with it.
 
WATERS: What were you doing?
 
MURDAUGH: I was getting ready to go to my mom's house.
 
WATERS: Getting ready to go. I thought to take a shower already. You were just laying down on the couch. What all you need to do to get ready to go to your mom's house?
 
MURDAUGH: I mean, there wasn't anything to get ready in that aspect. I was getting ready to go. I was preparing to leave.
 
WATERS: Doing what?
 
MURDAUGH: I don't know if I got up, went to the bathroom. I don't know. I can't tell you exactly what I was doing.
 
WATERS: 'That's far more steps in a shorter time period than any time prior, as you've seen from the testimony in this case. So, what were you so busy doing? Going to the bathroom?
 
MURDAUGH: No, no. I don't think that I---
 
WATERS: To get on a treadmill?
 
MURDAUGH: Move to the bathroom. I did not even get on a treadmill.
 
WATERS: Jog in place?
 
MURDAUGH: No, I didn't jog in place.
 
WATERS: Did you do jumping jacks?
 
MURDAUGH: No, sir, I did not do jumping jacks.
 
WATERS: What were you doing Mr. Murdaugh for those four months?
 
MURDAUGH: Preparing to leave from my mom's house.
 
WATERS: What? What does that mean? I mean, you're in the front room on that couch where you say you lay down. The suburban is just right outside. What are you doing?
 
MURDAUGH: I don't know, if I got up and went to my room, went to the gun room, went back in that.
 
WATERS: Doing what? You've been so clear. And your new story about everything. What were you doing during these four minutes?
 
MURDAUGH: I disagree with your assertion about every detail. I don't recall. I know that I was getting up. And I was leaving, I was going to check on my mom. That's specifically what I was doing. I don't - I don't know.
 
WATERS: OK.
 
MURDAUGH: I know what I wasn't doing, Mr. Waters. And what I wasn't doing is doing anything. As I believe (Inaudible) that I was cleaning off or washing off or washing off guns, putting guns in a raincoat. And I can promise you that I wasn't doing any of that.
 
WATERS: OK. Also, during this four-minutes where you got 283 steps. Not only are you moving around a lot, but you're making a ton of phone calls because in that same time period, you see this red line right here. Where over that four-minute period, all the steps were taken. That's also when you're calling, making all these phone calls, isn't it Mr. Murdaugh?
 
MURDAUGH: Well, I made the phone calls---
 
WATERS: You were making these phone calls, is that what you learn?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You allowed to answer before Mr. Waters steps on him again with another question. Please. Thank you.
 
WATERS: You were making all these phone calls while you were taking all these steps? Would you concede that where you don't remember what you were doing?
 
MURDAUGH: Well, I was making phone calls and that showed here. At 9:05, I called my dad. You know, I don't know that I was taking steps like you're saying I'm taking steps. I heard the same testimony. You heard Mr. Waters. And, you know, steps can be recorded any number of ways. I don't have a specific recollection of walking around. I don't know if I was hitting my phone like the guy showed or doing whatever that makes steps. WATERS: So, you were hitting your phone like that while you're making all these phone calls?
 
MURDAUGH: No, no, sir. What I'm saying Mr. was, I don't know that. I'm just giving you an example. You're saying that I'm running around, taking the steps. And while I'm doing that, I'm making telephone calls. What I will agree with is that this data shows that there was 283 steps recorded on my phone. And sometime during that period, I made certain phone calls.
 
WATERS: OK. All right. So not only for whatever it is, is recording steps, you're also making a ton of phone calls, including miss calls to Maggie, who is 1100 feet away.
 
MURDAUGH: You're using the term a ton of phone calls. What I agree is that I made the phone calls that are listed on these call data records, which you know, are very normal phone calls from me.
 
WATERS: Do you know why so many phone calls were missing from the log around this relevant time period when law enforcement downloaded your phone on June 10.
 
MURDAUGH: From my phone?
 
WATERS: Yes.
 
MURDAUGH: No, I don't.
 
WATERS: Did you delete them Mr. Murdaugh?
 
MURDAUGH: Not intentionally.
 
WATERS: Just around the time June 7, all these calls were missing, but you had nothing to do with that between June 7 and June 10.
 <br>[12:05:00]
 
MURDAUGH: No, sir, I did not. And I did not delete phone calls from my phone. Mr. Waters, one of the most important things in this whole thing for me has been getting this data that I believe would exist phone calls and phone records would be part of that.
 
I've been in enough civil cases and used phone records enough times to know that you delete a phone call from your phone, it doesn't disappear. So, I can tell you, this jury and everybody who's listening, that I did not intentionally delete phone calls from my phone.
 
WATERS: Yes. Because you started talking about your former prosecutor, correct, and former lawyer doing civil cases? We went through that yesterday. And boy, you're busy be on that phone. Right out of the gate and not know, too, right?
 
MURDAUGH: Am I a busy bee?
 
WATERS: Yes. MURDAUGH: I'm using my telephone at - I think I call 9:05. I start and call my dad. And I agree that I made other phone calls.
 
WATERS: And one of the first things you start talking about with law enforcement, is these calls that you made to Maggie, correct? You can't recall that from your first statement to law enforcement.
 
MURDAUGH: One of the first things did I say to law enforcement?
 
WATERS: Yes, that's one of the things you talk about. I'm talking about with your interview with special agent Dave Owens.
 
MURDAUGH: I don't remember that being the first thing we talked about.
 
WATERS: The first things.
 
MURDAUGH: If Mr. Owens asked me about it, then I---
 
WATERS: No, you (Inaudible), you didn't.
 
MURDAUGH: I did.
 
WATERS: You don't recall?
 
MURDAUGH: No, I don't recall.
 
WATERS: Would you dispute me if I said you brought it up.
 
MURDAUGH: That I brought up? Brought up what?
 
WATERS: Your phone, Mr. Murdaugh, your phone.
 
MURDAUGH: Phone calls to Maggie?
 
WATERS: Yes.
 
MURDAUGH: Did I brought up phone calls to Maggie to David Owens.
 
WATERS: I'm asking you is that one of the things that you talked about in your first interview with Dave Owens, that you pulled out your phone and started looking at it, that you brought that up? Do you recall that?
 
MURDAUGH: Well, but that's not what you asked. Mr. Owens, you asked me was that the first thing that I talked to him about and that was the discrepancy. I certainly don't dispute that Mr. Owens and I talked about phone calls, but that's not what you said. So just to be clear.
 
WATERS: Well, the real reason, Mr. Murdaugh is that you as a lawyer and prosecutor are up at 9:02. Finally, having your phone in your hand, moving around and making all these phone calls to manufacture an alibi. Is that not true?
 
MURDAUGH: That's absolutely incorrect.
 
WATERS: So that's just another circumstance and coincidentally in this particular case? Right around the time that you lie to law enforcement about maybe one of the most important facts in the case.
 
MURDAUGH: It is absolute fact that I'm not manufacturing an alibi, as you say.
 
WATERS: How do you remember so much detail about everything else, but you don't remember what you were specifically doing to generate 283 steps while you're making these, all these phone calls in the same four-minute period?
 
MURDAUGH: I remember unequivocally without any doubt, what is clear a man is I could have at any time that I never manufactured any alibi in any way shape or form. Because I did not and would not hurt my wife and my child. So, I know for a fact did I never ever, ever created an alibi.
 
WATERS: Why don't you remember what you were doing when you were so busy for this four-minute critical period?
 
MURDAUGH: I do remember what I was doing.
 
WATERS: Other than I was getting ready to go.
 
MURDAUGH: Because that's what I was doing.
 
WATERS: OK. Let's keep going. You made those calls to Maggie in that four-minute period. You had just seen them a few minutes ago. When you say you went down there and came right back. Why didn't you just take that quick little left 11 hard 100 yards away and stop by, see why they didn't answer the call. You're obviously wanting to get in touch with them. Why didn't you go down to the kennels that were so close by.
 <br>[12:10:00]
 
MURDAUGH: There was no reason to.
 
WATERS: You're making multiple missed calls to Maggie and she's so close and there's a driveway right there. Why do you not just go down there and say, hey guys, I'm heading over there.
 
MURDAUGH: It wasn't important to do that. Me making those phone calls is simply me letting - I believe I called Maggie and I believe I called Paul. But that that's simply me just letting them know that I'm leaving for a minute, I'll be back. The fact that that they don't answer is not unusual at all. Now, it is odd. It is unusual that they never call me back.
 
But at that moment, the fact that there's a missed call. When I know they're on the property, I mean, that doesn't even register at all. That's perfectly normal to try to call somebody who's on the property and not be able to get down. And as far as not going down there, there was no sense of urgency. Maggie was with Paul. You know, she should be as safe as she could be.
 
WATERS: And she should. Did you talk with Maggie about going to Almeda when you're at the kennels? MURDAUGH: No, I don't believe I did.
 
WATERS: Did you talk with Maggie about going to Almeda during supper?
 
MURDAUGH: I know that we had talked about it. I had talked. I don't believe we talked about it at supper, but we may have. I noticed I had talked about that I was going to go over there. And then I decided that I wasn't going to go over that.
 
WATERS: So, what was your conversation of supper. Tell me specifically because now I'm going to Almeda?
 
MURDAUGH: I can't tell you that we specifically talked about. The only thing that I can tell you we specifically talked about at supper was Paul-Paul.
 
WATERS: All right. And what was the conversation?
 
MURDAUGH: Maggie was just concerned, Paul-Paul had been having for young person. Paul have been having high blood pressure. And he's very resistant to go to the doctor and just been going on for a little while. But lately Paul's feet have swollen and for 22-year-old have stuck to having swollen feet concern both of us. And it particularly concerned Maggie and we talked about that.
 
WATERS: OK. You don't talk about Mr. Randolph at all?
 
MURDAUGH: I'm sure we did.
 
WATERS: Do you remember that group texts coming in about whether or not anybody was going to go see Mr. Randolph at the hospital the next day?
 
MURDAUGH: Do I remember it coming in? I don't remember it coming in.
 
WATERS: Because you didn't read it till the next day.
 
MURDAUGH: I've seen the data.
 
WATERS: Why didn't you - did you ever text the group and say you're going to Almeda at all?
 
MURDAUGH: No.
 
WATERS: Did Maggie ever - did you and Maggie ever specifically discuss her going along with you to Almeda?
 
MURDAUGH: I don't believe that we did. I know that. There was a point in time where I said Maggie might go but if, Holly, unusual for Maggie to go in visit just my mom. That whole situation, it just made - it made Maggie sad. And she didn't like to go.
 
WATERS: You aren't?
 
MURDAUGH: I don't believe that we did. But I do acknowledge that at some point, I said she might go for some reason. WATERS: You told law enforcement on multiple occasions that first of all, Maggie was planning to stay out of Stowe the night of June 7, correct?
 
MURDAUGH: I did say that.
 
WATERS: All right. And you also said that you came to find out that she came home of her own accord, correct? You told that to law enforcement, is that true?
 
MURDAUGH: She did come home of her own accord.
 
WATERS: That she decided on her own to come home because she was worried about you, didn't know what you said?
 
MURDAUGH: I did say that, and I believe that to be the case.
 
WATERS: All right. But since we've - despite what you told law enforcement, we've since seen the text that you actually call her and asked her to come home on the night of June 7.
 
MURDAUGH: No, sir, that's not correct.
 
WATERS: That's not correct?
 
MURDAUGH: No, sir, that's absolutely not correct.
 
WATERS: All right. So, you heard the sister-in-law Marian testified and just that fact of a conversation in which she had with Maggie but you're saying that's not true.
 <br>[12:15:00]
 
MURDAUGH: I don't believe that's what Marian said.
 
WATERS: And your defense but in this exhibit, exhibit 107, where Maggie texted block and said Alex wants me to come home.
 
MURDAUGH: I've seen that, and I agree with that.
 
WATERS: Is not enough on the screen. I've got the wrong input here. I'll just hold it up. You've seen this text?
 
MURDAUGH: I have seen that. Mr. Waters, the only dispute I have with what you're saying is you're saying that I called Maggie and wanted her to come home. I've always wanted Maggie to come home. And I would have talked to Maggie about coming home before she ever left to go to Charleston into Edisto. And I can tell you this. And I didn't realize this at the time. But I realized that now that Maggie was already undecided, but now I didn't know this, but Maggie was already undecided about staying at Edisto.
 
I can promise you that because Bubba and Grady were in their kennels, as you all well know. That night, if - that day, if Maggie was certain that she was spending the night at Edisto, at a minimum, Bubba would have been with her and probably both dogs would have been with her. It was very unusual for her to spend a night anywhere without one of us or those dogs. So, that tells me that when she left that morning, she was already seriously thinking about coming back.
 
WATERS: So, you're saying that you never called her and had a conversation that day asking her to come home, specifically on the night of June 7, 2021?
 
MURDAUGH: Maggie and I had a couple of phone conversations that day. What I'm telling you is that before she left - no, I don't believe we had a phone call about that we may have discussed during the phone call, but I didn't make a phone call to her to ask her to come home. I had already told her I wanted her to come home. I always wanted her to come home. You heard Marian say that too, that I always wanted Maggie with me.
 
WATERS: Maggie thought enough having to talk about it with Marian?
 
MURDAUGH: The fact that I wanted her to come home?
 
WATERS: Correct?
 
MURDAUGH: We'll share. I mean, as what Marian said.
 
WATERS: So, you're denying that you called Maggie and specifically asked her to come home that night?
 
MURDAUGH: I didn't make a phone call to Maggie to ask her to come home that night. I asked Maggie to come home long before she ever left. And I probably asked her again each time I talked to her, but I didn't make the phone call specifically for that as you're saying. And to be clear, I'm certain that of Maggie was certain that she was spending the night. Bubba would have been with her and probably Grady.
 
WATERS: All right. Why didn't you tell law enforcement that that you found out after the fact that Maggie wanted to come home because she was concerned about you? Why don't you phrase it that way? If what you're saying to the jury now was accurate. Why would you phrase it that way?
 
MURDAUGH: Because I believe that to be the case.
 
WATERS: That you found out afterwards, but now you're saying you knew.
 
MURDAUGH: No. I'm saying I found out afterwards while she came home, Mr. Waters. And she came home because she was worried about. So, I want to be clear about that. I did not learn that until I think the day after she got killed.
 
WATERS: But you're saying that you found out that after the fact that you're telling this jury that you knew the things that you just said about her wanting to come home. And you were unaware of what Marian would say at that point either?
 
MURDAUGH: No. I'm saying at that time, I had not thought about Bubba and Grady. Since that time, I've thought about that. I'm certain that at the time I thought Maggie was staying at Edisto, all right. she was going to Edisto to meet the people to do the work. Maggie loved to stay at Edisto. There's no doubt about that. It would not be unusual at all for her to stay at Edisto.
 <br>[12:20:00]
 
But just like every other time, I had already asked her please come back, come back. I always wanted her to stay with me. Always, but I did not learn about it. And Maggie even texted me, I'll see you in a few hours, but I did not know why she decided to come back until later. Is what I'm saying. And I learned it from Blanca. Blanca actually shown me the text that she sent her, talking about being worried about me.
 
WATERS: You would agree with me that you sent a text to Maggie at 9:08:58, while in motion in the suburban as reflected by the data.
 
MURDAUGH: I do, which was because I couldn't reach them by the telephone, and I wanted him to know where I was, which is what we do.
 
WATERS: And you got to Almeda around 9:22?
 
MURDAUGH: I believe that's correct. I don't have any reason to dispute that.
 
WATERS: You made some more phone calls along the way?
 
MURDAUGH: I did make more phone calls along the way while I was riding.
 
WATERS: You called Chris Wilson?
 
MURDAUGH: I did call Chris Wilson.
 
WATERS: You had a short conversation with him. Is that right?
 
MURDAUGH: I did have a conversation for however long the record show.
 
WATERS: About 131 seconds, that sound about, right?
 
MURDAUGH: If that's what the record show two minutes.
 
WATERS: You called your brother John Marvin for about 106 seconds encoding connection time. Does that sound about right?
 
MURDAUGH: It does sound about right.
 
WATERS: You arrived at 9:22, it that sound about right?
 
MURDAUGH: It does.
 
WATERS: And then at 9:24, you call, that's the landline at Almeda, is that correct?
 
MURDAUGH: That is correct.
 
WATERS: And then you went inside, is that right? MURDAUGH: Yes, that's right.
 
WATERS: Talked Miss. Shelley?
 
MURDAUGH: That's right. I called the house phone to get Shelley---
 
JOHN KING, CNN HOST, INSIDE POLITICS: I'm John King in Washington. You're watching their back on the stand. Alex Murdaugh, facing day two of cross examination that is double murder trial in South Carolina. We'll continue to track this testimony. Let's take a very quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[12:25:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KING: Take you straight back to the courtroom Walterboro, South Carolina, Alex Murdaugh on the stand day two cross examination.
 
MURDAUGH: No. I don't think - I don't think your assertion is accurate. You have to understand this on August the 11th when I went to meet with David Owens, and in that David Owens, asked me about - he showed me that Snapchat and asked me about clothes that I had on. And shortly after that, the next time I was with Blanca. I asked Blanca about those clothes, because David Owens had asked me about him, it was make - made an issue about it.
 
And so, I checked with Blanca to see what I specifically asked Blanca and it was an issue to me. So, I got blocked and I said, I need you to sit down talk with me about this. This is important. Do you remember my clothes when you came to Moselle that day, and she remembered exactly what she testified to, she remembered that my pants were there. She wasn't sure if the shirt was there.
 
At that time, I think she actually thought the shirt was there, but she was clear that she wasn't sure about that. But, no, no, she wasn't - but she didn't remember, but I assumed that it was. So, that was the conversation that and while I was asking Banca
 
WATERS: Well again, a very specific about your memories of that conversation. Is that correct, Mr. Murdaugh?
 
MURDAUGH: You're doing right. I'm consistent about that because a very short time before that, David Owens is asking me questions, and telling me I'm a suspect in the murder of my wife and my child and asking me about my clothes. You dang, right, it was important.
 
WATERS: It was important, right?
 
MURDAUGH: And you dang right, I remember what - why went to her and for what reason?
 
WATERS: Does the only thing you're concerned about is yourself. You're not concerned about giving accurate information to law enforcement, correct. What's the reason for that, Mr. Murdaugh? Why don't you want to give accurate information to law enforcement? Why do you want to talk to these women who both are employed by you or your family and try to influence what they are going to say?
 
MURDAUGH: I didn't want to give law enforcement accurate information. I told a lie about being down there and I got myself wet to that. But I wanted to give them as much I knew that I hadn't done this, and I wanted to give them as much accurate information as I could. But the reason I went to Blanca is specifically because David Owens talking to me on August the 11th.
 
WATERS: OK. You can see that you're underway about 9:42 heading back, 9:42 to 9:43.
 
MURDAUGH: I do.
 
WATERS: You turn on Moselle about 10:01?
 
MURDAUGH: Turn into Moselle at 10:01?
 
WATERS: Yes. Sorry.
 
MURDAUGH: Looks to me like I turned into Moselle at 10 o'clock.
 
WATERS: 10 o'clock on the dot, that's right.
 
MURDAUGH: Yes, sir.
 
WATERS: At the house at 10:05?
 
MURDAUGH: Yes, sir.
 
WATERS: And that's when you went back to the kennel after you came back from Almeda, correct?
 
MURDAUGH: I went to the kennels after I went to the house.