Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: U.S. Seeks Talks With Russia On Nuclear Arms; CDC: Costs Force Millions To Skip, Ration Meds; Watchdog: Don't Keep Money In Payment Apps; NBA Star Faces Suspension Over Gun Video; Jokic Leads Nuggets Past Heat In Game 1. Aired 1:30-2p ET

Aired June 02, 2023 - 13:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[13:30:00]
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Right now, they're not saying that they are looking to talk to China and Russia at the same time. But they're not saying that that's, you know, out of the cards.
 
They are acknowledging that they want to talk to both countries. They're also saying they think that multilateral engagement with all of those side countries that have nuclear weapons could be productive. 
 
But, Jim, you'll recall the Trump administration really did try to get China to the table when they were having nuclear arms talks with Russia. So that has been something that has been tried in the past. It may be the future of where this has to go. 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Fionna Hill, who was Trump's Russia advisor, made the point that Trump was sincerely interested in nuclear negotiations with Russia at various times.
 
Kylie Atwood, at the State Department, thanks so much. 
 
Boris? 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: U.S. regulators are warning consumers about storing money in popular apps, like Venmo or PayPal. We're going to explain why.
 
Plus, a CDC reporter shows high prescription drug costs have caused millions of Americans to skip doses in order to try and save some money. Details on that story when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:35:45]
 
SANCHEZ: Three people are still missing in Iowa, after an apartment building collapsed earlier this week. Today, Iowa Urban Search and Rescue Team says they searched every area they possibly could for survivors.
 
And now they're going to attempt to shore up other portions of the building so they can look further. But it is a delicate and time- consuming process. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RICK HALLERAN, DIVISION CHIEF, CEDAR RAPIDS USAR: We do what the building tells us to do. This building, as I stated, is very dynamic. As the temperature rises up and down during the day, this building is expanding and contracting. So it's talking to us. It's telling us what it wants to do. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: We're also learning, according to the mayor, repair work had begun on the building just days before it partly came down. 
 
The city also released these photos showing what appears to be a void forming between the facade and the interior wall. You can see crumbled bricks in that space. 
 
Officials have not yet updated when they plan to demolish the building. 
 
Jim? 
 
SCIUTTO: The high cost of medicine is taking a toll on how often Americans are taking their prescription drugs. The CDC says that millions of adults in the U.S. are either skipping or rationing out their prescribed meds because they cost too much or people are trying to save money.
 
CNN senior medical correspondent, Elizabeth Cohen, is here.
 
Elizabeth, this is a problem, right? Folks need to take all of their medicine when it says take all of the medicine. What do these latest numbers show? 
 
DR. ELIZABETH COHEN, CNN SENIOR MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Jim, these latest numbers show that more than nine million Americans rationed their prescription drugs over the past year. 
 
Just as you said, it's because they didn't have enough money. Obviously if you don't take all the medicine, you can become sicker. That affects those patients and really it affects all of us, because it affects medical costs. 
 
The difficulties are mostly felt by the uninsured. If you look at people who don't have insurance, 23 percent say they have rationed their prescription medicines over the previous year. Again, hurts them, hurts all of us -- Jim? 
 
SCIUTTO: In addition to the uninsured, are there others who are more likely to ration their medications? 
 
COHEN: Yes. So the CDC data broke out demographics. They found that black people were more likely to have to ration their medications. Hispanic people were more likely. Women were significantly more likely than men to have to ration their medication. And also people with disabilities -- Jim? 
 
SCIUTTO: Well, it's an important study. 
 
Elizabeth Cohen, thank you so much for bringing it to us. 
 
Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: A Texas cheerleader is speaking out for the first time after she and her friend were shot in a store parking lot after that friend accidentally opened the door of the wrong car. 
 
The attack in April put Payton Washington in critical condition. She reveals that her spleen was ruptured and her stomach had two holes in it after she was shot three times in the leg and back. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAYTON WASHINGTON, SHOT THREE TIMES WHEN FRIEND OPENED WRONG CAR DOOR: My diaphragm had two holes in it. And then they had to remove a lobe from my pancreas. I had 32 staples.
 
The hardest part was after surgeries. It was hard. Like it hurting to walk or stand is really weird when a week before you were doing a bunch of flips, running the track and doing long jump and all this stuff. 
 
You can't get out of bed by yourself, can't roll off the couch, can't stand by yourself. Going up the stairs, I would get winded. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: The suspect in the shooting, this man over here, was arrested and charged with deadly conduct with a firearm. 
 
Washington said that despite being wounded and scared, she focused on trying to breathe and keep everyone else around her calm. Remarkably, after recovering from her injuries, she was able to walk across the stage at her high school graduation. 
 
Jim?
 
SCIUTTO: That's good to hear, no question. 
 <br>[13:39:43]
 
Well, coming up, Fort Bragg gets a new name today. Why the Army is making a change and what the nation's biggest military installation will now be called. That's coming up. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SANCHEZ: This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL. Here's a look at some of the other headlines we're following this hour. 
 
One of the largest military installations in the world just got a new name. Fort Bragg in North Carolina is now Fort Liberty. It comes after a push to rename nine bases that bear the name of Confederate leaders. But while the others have been redesignated after notable people, Fort Liberty will be the only facility named after a value. 
 
Also, a retired Air Force lieutenant colonel has been sentenced to three years in federal prison for storing classified information at his Florida home.
 
Robert Birchum pleaded guilty earlier this year. In 2017, investigators found Birchum, quote, "knowingly removed more than 300 classified files." More than 30 of those documents were marked "top secret," the highest level of classification.
 <br>[13:45:10]
 
Meantime, Twitter's head of trust and safety telling "Reuters" she has resigned from the social media company. Ella Irwin, who was in charge of content moderation, stepped down the same day that Twitter blocked and then unblocked access to anti-trans documentary. 
 
Billionaire Elon Musk has faced criticism for lax protections against potentially harmful content since he took over back in October.
 
Jim? 
 
SCIUTTO: All right, so paying convenience potentially a risk. A consumer watchdog is issuing a warning to people who use popular payment apps, such as Venmo, Cash App or PayPal. 
 
That advice, do not store money in the apps, because that money is not insured by the government, like it would be in a bank. That means your money could be lost if those companies go belly up. 
 
The Consumer Protection Bureau also says these companies face less oversight for a whole host of things than traditional banks. 
 
Joining us now, CNN technology reporter, Brian Fung. 
 
Brian, listen, so that gets to storing a lot of money there in case they go belly up, not for using them to pay friends or businesses. That's not the issue. It's more like keeping the money there.
 
BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER: That's right. What the U.S. government is staying is, look -- and this is total common sense -- that these service are so easy to use, it's often easy to forget that they're not banks. They're not FDIC insured.
 
So if you want to protect your money from the sorts of risks you were talking about, you really should be moving that money to a bank, an actual bank that's regulated. 
 
SCIUTTO: So the idea is that's one thing that folks can do to protect themselves. Are there other steps you can take as you use the apps?
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCIUTTO: I'm just asking for myself as well because I use them. FUNG: That's a great question. With these services, as well as many others, cybersecurity is always an important value. You want to make sure you protect the accounts from hackers, enable strong, complex passwords that ideally manage with a password manager. 
 
You know, two factor identification to make sure -- because hackers can pretend to be you. And use different passwords for different services. 
 
And these tips really apply not just for these payment apps but also for all of --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SCIUTTO: Everybody does it. They repeat apps. But I'll tell you, it is so common, the fraudsters are so common out there. It's good advice to follow. 
 
Brian Fung, thanks so much.
 
Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Still ahead on CNN NEWS CENTRAL, the Ja Morant investigation. New information about his social media posts holding guns. What the NBA chief is saying about it, next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[13:52:21]
 
SANCHEZ: NBA superstar, Ja Morant, is facing another suspension after a second video surfaced showing him wielding a gun. The league's commissioner gave an update last night ahead of the NBA finals. 
 
CNN's Patrick Snell joins us now live. 
 
Patrick, Adam Silver not divulging too much information but saying they found some things in the investigation. Do we know how soon a suspension could be handed down? 
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN "WORLD SPORT" ANCHOR: That's the key question now, Boris. We're waiting to see and we're hoping to learn more in the coming hours, if not the coming days. 
 
Here is what's highly significant. The NBA Commissioner Adam Silver speaking with the media before game one last night at the NBA finals. And this was, this actually was, when you reflect upon it all, a really significant update. 
 
This on the potential discipline, the potential discipline that the league will be handing down to the Grizzlies' star. He apparently flashed a gun on social media for a second time. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ADAM SILVER, NBA COMMISSIONER: We've uncovered a fair amount of additional information. I think, since I was still asked about the situation, I would say we probably could have brought it to a head now.
 
But we made the decision, and I believe the Players Association agrees with us, that it would be unfair to these players and these teams in the middle of the series to announce the results of that investigation. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SNELL: All right, just a reminder, the NBA suspending Morant for eight games for flashing a gun on social media at a night club. That was earlier this year, back in March.
 
Well, the Nuggets and their fans waiting 47 years to play in their first NBA finals game. 
 
And their coach, Mike Malone, wanted to really make sure they were ready for the Heat, so much so that he gave the team a pop quiz about the game plan, a shoot around.
 
We can definitely say they've acted then in game one and in some style, too.
 
The Nuggets showing no rust from nine days off. Nicola Jokic, he's the teams superstar, just dominant throughout. He had 27 points, 14 assists and 10 rebounds. That means a triple double for him while taking only 12 shots.
 
Well, Jamal Murray also had 26 points as the Nuggets had a 21-point lead to start. 
 
The Heat trying their best to get back into it, but nothing doing. It wasn't happening for them in the end. Such would be master class really they served up their opponents. 
 
I will say that Jimmy Butler had low points, 13 points, by the way.
 
Nuggets taking game one, 104-93. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKOLA JOKIC, DENVER NUGGETS CENTER: Right now, the most important thing is to win the game. And I'm trying to win a game in an impossible way. I don't need to shoot or score to affect the game. 
 <br>[13:55:06]
 
And I think I did a good job today. Everybody contributed. Everybody who played contributed, and it's a great win for us. 
 
JIMMY BUTLER, MIAMI HEAT FORWARD: We missed a lot tonight. We'll be better at game two. At the end of the day, that's what it is. So we'll take this and learn from it. And we'll be back in two days. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) SNELL: Back in two days. Today and tomorrow, in fact.
 
Game two of the finals will be Sunday night at 8:00 Eastern. 
 
Boris, your team, Miami, has some work to do, I would say. Do you agree? 
 
SANCHEZ: Oh, Patrick, I thought they were going to take it in three. I didn't even think they would need four games. I figured Denver would forfeit the fourth game. Now I say Heat in five. 
 
Patrick Snell, thank you so much for the reporting.
 
Jim, over to you. 
 
SCIUTTO: See, I had no idea that Boris was a Heat fan. 
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SCIUTTO: First I've heard of it on this podcast.
 
Coming up, more on CNN's exclusive reporting. Trump attorneys have not yet found the classified document that the former president was speaking about in a recording. We'll have details on that reporting just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)