Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Pro-Democracy Protesters Decry Sunday's Violence in Brazil; Israel's Itamar Ben-Gvir Orders Police to Remove Palestinian Flags; North American Leaders' Summit;  Classified Documents Found in Biden's Private Office; Heavy Fighting as Russia Tries to Take Soledar; Satellite Shows Crowding at China' Crematoriums; Prince Harry's "Spare" Hits Bookstores. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired January 10, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
BECKY ANDERSON, CNN HOST (voice-over):  Pro democracy supporters filled Brasilia's streets in a show of support for president Lula after the latest 
 
 unrest. 
 
President Joe Biden is facing uncomfortable questions after several classified documents from his time as vice president were discovered in his 
 
 private office, we're live for you in Washington. 
 
And fighting an intense fight in the east of Ukraine, especially the city of Soledar. As President Zelenskyy urges his front line troops to hold on, 
 
 on the ground. A live report for you. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Good evening, I'm Becky Anderson, hello, welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD. It is 7 pm here in Abu Dhabi. 
 
Well, today, a focus on police in Brazil's capital after Sunday's violent protests. President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva says Brasilia's police not 
 
 only neglected the threat of an attack but appeared to connive with rioters; 1,500 people have been arrested. Thousands of tips are now pouring 
 
 in. 
 
Among the questions being asked, how did protesters apparently walk right into several government buildings and do so much damage?
 
They're loyal to former president Jair Bolsonaro. He is in the U.S. Being treated for an old stab wound. Brazil is not planning to investigate him in 
 
 this most recent unrest. We are seeing backlash against the protests. People taking to the streets on behalf of democracy, they say. CNN's Shasta 
 
 Darlington is with us from Sao Paulo. 
 
Let's talk about those allegations by president Lula da Silva, that the police, at the very least, looked the other way. 
 
What can you tell us?
 
What do we know at this point?
 
SHASTA DARLINGTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, that's right, Becky, this was at an event last night where he was flanked by all 27 
 
 governors of Brazil, a show of support, not only for Lula but a condemnation of these attacks. 
 
They're calling them attacks on democracy itself. It was at this meeting that Lula made those remarks. He criticized the police of Brasilia and the 
 
 intelligence, saying they not only failed to prepare for what were widely publicized protests. 
 
But on the day itself, there are images of the police virtually escorting protesters and certainly not stopping them as they marched on the capital 
 
 and eventually stormed not only the congress but the supreme court and the presidential palace, smashing windows, setting off the fire sprinklers, 
 
 which flooded buildings, destroyed more property. 
 
These are not only democratic institutions but they're actually architectural treasures of Brazil. So those accusations are certainly being 
 
 looked into. And he clearly has a lot of the support of Brazilians, as you mentioned. 
 
I am here on Avenue de Paulista. This is one of many locations across the country, where Brazilians took to the street last night in support of 
 
 president Lula and to denounce those riots. 
 
They say that Lula was the democratically elected president; they denounced these claims by Bolsonaro supporters that the elections were rigged. The 
 
 supporters have never provided any evidence that was the case. 
 
Another example, similar to what we saw on January 6th in the United States, of conspiracy theories, taking root and just running rampant. As 
 
 you mentioned, Bolsonaro is in the United States. 
 
In fact, he left Brazil before the traditional ceremony to hand over the presidential sash. Right now, authorities are investigating those attacks; 
 
 some 1,500 people have been arrested or detained. They've also broken up camps that were set up right after elections outside of army barracks 
 
 across the country to demand a military intervention. 
 
So we expect to hear more about those investigations. While Lula himself tries to sort of grab control here, these riots not only led to the 
 
 destruction of so many buildings but also revealed this deep, deep division in the country that Lula has said he wants to unite. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
DARLINGTON:  A country where almost 50 percent of the population voted for the other candidate, for former president Bolsonaro. So he has his work cut 
 
 out for him, a divided congress, really splintered into different parties. 
 
This, these riots, may give him a sense of unity in the short term but we know he has a lot of problems going forward, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes, absolutely. Shasta Darlington in Sao Paulo in Brazil. Thank, you Shasta. 
 
To Iran now, up to 100 people are facing charges for crimes that could potentially carry the death penalty. That's according to the U.N. human 
 
 rights office. The activist daughter of former Rafsanjani has also been sentenced to five years in prison, reportedly on charges of propaganda 
 
 against the system. 
 
And Iran's supreme leader has appointed a new hardline police chief who is already sanctioned by the United States. General Ahmad-Reza Radan was among 
 
 the Iranian officials sanctioned by the U.S. in 2010 for human rights abuses during the 2009 protests. 
 
Jomana Karadsheh has been following developments from Istanbul in Turkiye, she joins us now. 
 
Iran's prosecution has ordered police to crack down on women violating the hijab law. Just explain what that law is and what we know to be the crime 
 
 of promoting, promoting protests of that law, of that hijab, by those on the streets. 
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Becky, these statements coming today from the office of the attorney general, the Iranian regime saying 
 
 that they're ordering authorities to enforce harsher, stricter measures on those of violating the country's mandatory hijab or veil law. 
 
Now typically, women face 10 days to two months in prison for not wearing the veil. Right now, what they're saying is that these women are going to 
 
 be facing the possibility of travel bans, fines, no access to public services and even harsher measures for those who encourage women, they say, 
 
 not to wear the veil.
 
They'll be facing one to 10 years in prison because, according to the attorney general's office, that is encouraging corruption. 
 
You know, Becky, as you recall, just a few weeks ago, there were all these speculations when we started hearing statements and reports coming out from 
 
 different Iranian officials, indicating that they were reviewing the hijab law. 
 
All the speculation about the future of the morality police, reports that it was being abolished. Those who know the regime will have been saying all 
 
 along that there is absolutely no way it is going to compromise one of on the pillars of the Islamic Republic and that is the hijab. 
 
There was no way they were going to show any sort of weakness by caving in to the pressure from protesters on the streets, by offering any sort of 
 
 concessions. The regime's response has been very clear from the start with this brutal crackdown. 
 
It is now entering an even more terrifying phase with these executions. As you mentioned, also more indications that they're not backing down, the 
 
 appointment of General Radan to become the country's national police chief by the supreme leader this Saturday.
 
Also  indications we are going to be seeing an even harsher crackdown in the coming days. But Becky, it is very important to point out that, while 
 
 the issue of the hijab, the death of Mahsa Amini in the, custody of the morality police was the spark of these protests, so many Iranians will tell 
 
 you that this is not just what these protests have been about. 
 
As you know very well, this has been about the most basic of human rights and fundamental rights for the people, to women to choose whether or not to 
 
 wear the hijab, to be able to speak freely without the fear of going to jail or facing the threat of the death penalty, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  "Women, life, freedom;" of course, that is the slogan of these protests. So thank you, Jomana. 
 
Israel's new security minister, national security ministry is ordering police to remove Palestinian flags from public spaces. Hard right 
 
 politician Itamar Ben-Gvir says that displaying the flag shows, quote, "identification with terrorism." 
 
Experts say the move is not likely to stand up to legal scrutiny. It comes just days after Ben-Gvir's controversial visit to a Jerusalem holy site 
 
 known as the Temple Mount to Jews and the Noble Sanctuary to Muslims. It sparked a meeting by the U.N. Security Council. Let's bring in journalist 
 
 Elliott Gotkine. He is live from Jerusalem on this. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
ANDERSON:  How is this decision, this announcement by Ben-Gvir on the Palestinian flag, being received?
 
And how likely is it to stand up to legal scrutiny?
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Becky, in terms of how it's been received, in the words of Palestinian lawyer Diane Buttu, this is really 
 
 not the first act and it will not be the last. 
 
And Palestinians are ready to see this as yet another attempt by this new right-wing and religiously conservative government to demonize Palestinians 
 
 and undermine what is, for Palestinians, a hugely important symbol of national identity. 
 
Of course, this is not the first time the Palestinian flag has caused controversy. We -- you'll recall, the funeral of the Al Jazeera journalist, 
 
 Shireen Abu Akleh, who was killed last year, probably by Israeli forces. 
 
And mourners there, some of whom were carrying or unfurling Palestinian flags, had the Palestinian flags confiscated from them. 
 
I should also add, Ben-Gvir today, seeking to clarify some of his words. He seems to be saying that he's not really creating new laws on the hoof; he 
 
 wants police to enforce laws that are already in existence. 
 
He refers to the flag not as the Palestinian flag but as the PLO flag, the flag of the Palestinian Liberation Organization. He says this is a 
 
 terrorist organization. It is bent on destroying the State of Israel. 
 
Whatever the case, I think, as I say, you know, Palestinians see this is another way -- there are cars going past here -- another way for this 
 
 government to try to undermine Palestinians. Perhaps it gives police more cover to crack down on Palestinians when they do protest or when they do 
 
 unfurl the Palestinian flag, Becky. 
 
ANDERSON:  Elliott Gotkine is in Jerusalem, for you, folks, where the time is 11 minutes past five. 
 
It's 11 minutes past seven, thank you, here in Abu Dhabi. Up next on CONNECT THE WORLD, the leaders of the U.S., Mexico and Canada gather for a 
 
 summit. Their attention is focused to the south, on the stream of migrants heading their way. 
 
Also, classified documents found Joe Biden's -- found in Joe Biden's private office from the time he was vice president invite comparisons to 
 
 the document discovery of former president Trump's home. The differences in a live report. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  U.S. President Joe Biden and the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, will hold a one-on-one meeting in the next hour as part of the 
 
 North American summit happening as we speak in Mexico City. Mr. Biden met Monday with Mexico's president, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador. 
 
All three will get together for a working lunch and talks in a few hours' time. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
ANDERSON:  And while trade and other economic issues will be discussed, the top item on the agenda, is it likely to be immigration and efforts to deal 
 
 with what is a flood of migrants going north?
 
White House correspondent MJ Lee is traveling with Mr. Biden. She joins us now from Mexico City. 
 
A lot of talk about the migrant crisis in North America. But as I understand it, the White House admitting that very little is expected to be 
 
 achieved with regard to immigration at this summit, which would seem as if that would be a mistake at this point, at this juncture. 
 
MJ LEE, CNN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, you're right that there has certainly been some expectation setting from U.S. officials ahead of the 
 
 summit, basically saying, yes, there is not necessarily going to be new plans, new announcements that are going to be announced, particularly when 
 
 it comes to this new agreement that was announced last week between the U.S. -- 
 
(AUDIO GAP)
 
LEE:  -- administration. In particular has really been trying to get a handle on the situation of migrants -- 
 
(AUDIO GAP)
 
LEE:  -- the administration is going to be announcing a couple of things that are new, including the launch of a virtual platform that the 
 
 administration says is meant to be a one-stop shop for migrants and asylum seekers, who can go to the resource and try to figure out, is there legal 
 
 way for me to get to the U.S., Mexico or Canada and sort of follow the proper protocols that are in place to do this?
 
We're also told that there will be the announcement of the building of more physical resource centers, including one in southern Mexico. Again, the 
 
 idea there, too, is to provide a resource for migrants to go to, to figure out how they can migrate to the U.S. following proper procedures. 
 
But back at home, at least, there are some questions being raised by immigration advocates and experts about how exactly effective these new 
 
 measures will be. You know, the virtual portal that I just mentioned, it is going to be several months probably before that's actually launched. 
 
So we don't actually have the details of how that will work yet. And also, just keep in mind that, when you talk to experts on this issue, they will 
 
 often point out the fact that, you know, these asylum seekers, for many of them, the reason they go straight to the U.S. southern border and try to 
 
 enter the country there before first applying for asylum properly is because they're trying to escape the situation back at home that is so 
 
 dire. 
 
And because they are feeling so desperate. So there are some concerns about closing the door on people like that. So all of these issues, as you said, 
 
 they will come up at the summit this afternoon when President Biden and the leaders of Canada and Mexico get together to discuss this among many other 
 
 issues. 
 
ANDERSON:  Thank you, MJ. 
 
Apologies, viewers, for the slight technical issues that we had there. We more than got the gist of what MJ was speaking about there. 
 
And I guess overshadowing what is going on with Joe Biden and this trip in Mexico is the following. The U.S. Justice Department reviewing the 
 
 situation after several classified documents from Joe Biden's time as vice president were discovered at a Washington think tank. 
 
Now the president's lawyers found the materials last fall while closing out the private office. They of course were turned over to the National 
 
 Archives the following day. 
 
The discovery is now being compared to the case involving former president Donald Trump, who is being investigated over scores of classified records 
 
 found in his Florida home. 
 
A source says the Justice Department is asking the U.S. attorney in Chicago to investigate. Senior legal affairs correspondent Paula Reid joining us 
 
 now from Washington, D.C. 
 
I guess, let's start with the specifics here. 
 
What more do we know about these documents?
 
And further, what are the key differences between what's been found here and what was found in Mar-a-Lago?
 
PAULA REID, CNN SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  It's really interesting. We don't know what specifically these documents are. All we 
 
 know is that President Biden had an office here in D.C., when he was an honorary professor at the University of Pennsylvania between 2017 and 2019. 
 
So it's in between the time he was vice president, before he became president. On November 2nd of this past year, his lawyers went to that 
 
 office to clear it out. They uncovered what we were told fewer than a dozen classified documents. They did what they're supposed to do, hand this over 
 
 to the National Archives. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
REID:  The Archives apparently took possession of the documents the next day; the Justice Department was notified. And the attorney general has had 
 
 the U.S. attorney in Chicago to review this, do a damage assessment. 
 
What's significant is this is one of only two Trump-era U.S. attorneys still serving in government. The other one is in Delaware, overseeing an 
 
 investigation into the president son. 
 
The Biden team says they're fully cooperating with this investigation but there's still so many outstanding questions, including why this office, why 
 
 this day, just a few days before critical midterms, why did you send your lawyers?
 
What were these documents?
 
A lot of questions still to be answered. 
 
I think the biggest one is, why didn't you get out in front of this?
 
If everyone did what they were supposed to do, why didn't either the Biden team or the Justice Department come out? 
 
Well, it's usually frowned upon to talk about matters -- just get out in front of this?
 
This leak came out through the press. Now, of course, the former president Trump, he's also under criminal investigation for possibly mishandling 
 
 documents down at Mar-a-Lago. But a lot of differences here. 
 
First of all, the volume of material:  fewer than a dozen versus hundreds of documents, levels of cooperation. The former president has not been 
 
 cooperative, really refused to turn over many documents until there were subpoenas obtained. 
 
He's also under investigation for obstruction of justice and other crimes. So the way the Biden team is laying this out, these appear to be very 
 
 different. But we are still very new to the story. It's only 24 hours old. So a lot more to uncover here. 
 
ANDERSON:  And you could argue it doesn't matter how many documents have been recovered, it only takes one classified document that shouldn't have 
 
 been outside of the National Archives to get the investigation going, doesn't it?
 
It's going to be interesting to keep an eye on this one. Thank you very much indeed for joining us. 
 
Let's get you up to speed, folks, on some of the other stories that are on our radar right now. 
 
At least 17 people have died in the latest anti government protests in Peru. Dozens were wounded during unrest in the southern city of Culleoka, 
 
 according to Peru's vice health minister. 
 
The demonstrations began last month after the former president was impeached and removed from office. 
 
Controversial internet personality Andrew Tate and his brother have now left a Bucharest courtroom and are waiting to hear if an appeals court will 
 
 uphold their 30-day detention. Prosecutors are investigating the two on suspicion of human trafficking and forming an organized crime group. 
 
One of the brothers is also accused of rape. Both men have denied wrongdoing. 
 
More rain and strong winds are pounding the U.S. state of California. Downpours on Monday triggered flooding, mudslides and closed roadways. 
 
 Authorities are warning of more severe weather as a parade of storms are expected to slam the U.S. West Coast in the coming days. 
 
The flooding is so intense in some areas that it's caused the sewage system to overflow into the streets. CNN's Camilla Bernal is in Santa Cruz County, 
 
 with a look at the cleanup efforts there underway. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Cleanup is underway here in Santa Cruz, County. As you can see her behind me, crews are working to 
 
 restore the power. Many are still without power in this area. 
 
And the neighborhood, the people here, the residents doing everything they can to push the mud out of their homes after being completely flooded over 
 
 the last couple of hours. 
 
I spoke to one resident who has been here for 20 years. And she told me that she was tired of cleaning up time and time again. But it gets harder 
 
 as these storms are closer together. 
 
I want to show you exactly how high the water went. You can see it here on the fence, the water coming all the way up here. This car was underwater 
 
 when all of this was flooded. So you see what happens when the river rises. 
 
There's a nearby river and officials in Santa Cruz County saying that the water rose at some point about a foot in just 15 minutes. Here is how that 
 
 resident that I talked to, Rachel Olivera, described what she saw this morning. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
RACHEL OLIVERA, FLOOD VICTIM:  Getting the reverse 9-1-1 call at 4 am, waking up and seeing water coming, it just came really quick, like within a 
 
 matter of minutes. It was from across the street, all the way into our yard. And it went really fast. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BERNAL:  And 32,000 people in this county are still under evacuation orders. They're telling people not to drive. It is dangerous to be out on 
 
 the road. And so, they're saying, if you don't have to travel, please stay home. 
 
They are expecting more rain. So we will have to wait and see what happens to the people that have already been impacted by the storm -- Camilla 
 
 Bernal, CNN, Santa Cruz  County, California. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  You're watching CONNECT THE WORLD with me, Becky Anderson. Still ahead, Russia tries to capture a key town in Eastern Ukraine. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
ANDERSON:  The eye-opening comment from the head of Russia's private military contractor on Ukraine's efforts to repel the Russian assault 
 
 there. 
 
And what the U.S. and Ukraine are saying about reduced Russian fire on the battlefield. All of that is coming up.
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
ANDERSON:  I'm Becky Anderson in Abu Dhabi, you are watching CONNECT THE WORLD. Just before half past seven here. 
 
Ukrainians fighting with honor to defend a town. That is a surprising assessment from the head of Russia's private military contractor about the 
 
 latest key battle in Eastern Ukraine. This is happening in Soledar. 
 
And the Wagner chief says his forces are fighting exclusively to capture that town, which is near the strategically important city of Bakhmut. The 
 
 Russian-backed head of the Donetsk region says Soledar is, quote, "close to liberation." Scott McLean joining us this hour from Kyiv. 
 
You're keeping, you know, fully focused on what is going on there; one of the bloodiest places on the front line, is the assessment of the Ukrainian 
 
 president at this point. 
 
What do we know about fighting there?
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hey, Becky, yes, it is difficult to know precisely where the front line is at any given moment. The fog of war is 
 
 very real. But we are getting some information from either side. 
 
You mentioned the head of the Donetsk People's Republic claims the Russian troops are very close to capturing Soledar. He didn't offer any evidence 
 
 for that claim. The Ukrainians are saying that the Russians have no right to claim that they have captured Soledar at this moment. 
 
But they also say the situation is under control, both there in Bakhmut. But they also do not rule out the possibility of withdrawing at some point, 
 
 of retreating at some point. 
 
They say that that decision, if it is made, again, there's no indication that they're going to make it -- but if they were to withdraw troops from 
 
 that area, it would be in the interest of preserving the lives of their front line troops so that they can live to fight another day and regroup 
 
 and then try to retake territory. 
 
But as you said, fighting is extremely difficult in that area. Both sides agree that the fighting is extremely fierce; it is extremely bloody as 
 
 well. 
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
MCLEAN:  President Zelenskyy did not mince words last night when he described what was happening there. He said that it is extremely difficult 
 
 and there are almost no walls still standing. 
 
He also said there is almost no life left in the town, describing the town as littered with corpses and also littered with craters from where all of 
 
 the explosions have gone off there. 
 
Yesterday, we heard from the deputy defense minister, who said that the Russians had amassed a huge number of troops, a huge number of weaponry, 
 
 equipment, and they were going ahead with what he described as a powerful assault, launching new multiple launch rocket strikes, new artillery 
 
 strikes. 
 
Really trying their best to give everything that they can to try to punch a hole in that front line because, we know, Becky, that Soledar is especially 
 
 important to the Russians for a couple of reasons. 
 
Number one, the head of the Wagner group says that there is a salt mine there. There is a salt mine there; the shaft is in the town. He says that 
 
 that is an ideal place to hide troops, to hide weaponry. So it would be of strategic importance to the Russians. 
 
But perhaps on a more basic level than that, it would allow the Russians to attack Bakhmut from a different direction, from the north. Right now, they 
 
 have had no luck making any headway coming at it from the east. 
 
ANDERSON:  Some context for you. 
 
Scott, thank you. 
 
A new U.S. and Ukrainian assessment highlights Russia's struggles on the battlefield. Officials from both countries tell CNN that Russian artillery 
 
 fire is down as much as 75 percent in some places from its all-time high. 
 
There are still days when Russia uses more artillery, especially around key targets like Bakhmut, that we have just been discussing. But overall, 
 
 decreased fire is another sign of Russia's weakened military position, well into the 11th month of this war. 
 
Oren Liebermann joining us from the Pentagon. 
 
We are just shy of this war having been fought for a year. And this assessment coming on the heels of Vladimir Putin's orthodox Christmas 
 
 cease-fire, which had been, of course, treated with some skepticism, both in Ukraine and in the West. 
 
OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT:  Becky, I'd even go so far as to say a tremendous amount of skepticism, simply because of the way Russia 
 
 fights, which is a constant barrage of largely artillery.
 
It's what makes this observation of decreased artillery firing so interesting. At the height of the war into summer, that we saw the massive 
 
 barrages of artillery, Russia was firing upwards of 20,000 artillery shells per day. 
 
A tremendous amount that speaks to the Russians' stores of artillery ammunition. Now according to U.S. officials familiar the matter, who have 
 
 seen the information about this, Russia's artillery fire is way down; in some cases, as much as 75 percent, down to about 5,000  artillery rounds 
 
 per day. 
 
What makes this so crucial and so critical to understand is that the Russian military doctrine basically calls for these mass barrages of 
 
 artillery. And then ground troops go in and kind of mop up or take over whatever is left over. So the fact that Russia's artillery fire is down is 
 
 significant. 
 
Of course, Becky, the key question is, why?
 
The Pentagon and Defense officials here have spoken about Russia needing to use 40-, 50-year old artillery output (ph) to keep firing. So it could be a 
 
 question of Russian stores. Defense officials have talked extensively about Russia's shortage of precision guided munitions. 
 
That, now, as we reach the one-year mark, may have also reached their conventional munitions. But U.S. and Ukrainian officials are not convinced 
 
 of that. They say there are other possibilities. 
 
Ukraine has hit Russian weapons depots, so that may have made a dent at this point. But crucially, it may also be a shift in tactic coming from 
 
 Russia's new theater commander, saving perhaps for an offensive or for months more fighting ahead. 
 
So it could be an alternate explanation, not just necessarily a shortage here, Becky. That is what the U.S. is trying to figure out. 
 
ANDERSON:  Yes, fascinating. Thank you for that. Oren Liebermann at the Pentagon for you. 
 
Well, China says it will suspend issuing visas to all Japanese citizens the same day it says it will also scrap short term visas to South Koreans. 
 
 These measures are China's first acts of retaliation against countries setting up strict requirements for Chinese travelers due to the 
 
 unprecedented COVID outbreak sweeping China. 
 
Now satellite images show just how fast the COVID death toll is rising in China. Selina Wang with more. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Satellite images show crowds at China's crematoriums and funeral homes as COVID cases explode across the country. 
 
 The images taken by Maxar in late December and early January and reviewed by CNN, show lines of cars waiting outside of funeral homes and six Chinese 
 
 cities. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
WANG (voice-over):  The images appear to show that a funeral home at the outskirts of Beijing has even constructed a brand-new parking area. This is 
 
 consistent with what I've seen at crematoriums in Beijing and with numerous social media footage that shows overflowing funeral homes. 
 
When I visited crematoriums last month, I saw a long line of cars waiting to get in and yellow body bags piling up in metal crates and workers 
 
 loading more in. I spoke to families who told me they were waiting for days to cremate their loved ones. 
 
All of this would suggest that China's COVID death toll is far higher than the government's tally of only 37 COVID-19 deaths since December 7th, a 
 
 strikingly low number. 
 
The World Health Organization and the U.S. have accused China of underrepresenting the severity of its current outbreak. Global health 
 
 officials are urging Beijing to share more data about the explosive spread. 
 
While the country is no longer providing nationwide statistics on COVID infection numbers, some provinces are sharing their own data. The 
 
 provincial government of Hunan said that around 89 percent of its residents have been infected with COVID-19 as of last Friday. 
 
This is China's most populous province, with a population of more than 98 million people. Local officials did not disclose the death toll -- Selina 
 
 Wang, CNN, Beijing. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, just ahead, folks, on a midnight book launch and plenty of hype, only this time it is for a different Harry. The spare speaks next. 
 
Plus, a most unlikely combination for success, two Hollywood stars, a small Welsh town and an obscure team with big ambitions. No, this is not a movie; 
 
 not least, at least not yet. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ANDERSON:  Prince Harry's explosive memoir, "Spare," is now officially on sale. Some fans waited in the rain in central London to buy what has been 
 
 the extensively leaked book during a midnight launch.
 
This comes a month after Netflix started streaming the "Harry and Meghan" documentary, which a majority of people polled in Britain called a bad 
 
 idea. That was around December the 9th, before any leaks from the book. 
 
And like the docuseries, as it was known, "Spare" is also controversial. CNN's royal correspondent Max Foster has more on the book and Prince 
 
 Harry's multiple TV interviews promoting it. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PRINCE HARRY, DUKE OF SUSSEX:  I love my father, I love my brother, I love my family. What was different --
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  With the release of his bombshell expose, "Spare," Prince Harry has said he never intended to hurt 
 
 anyone in the royal family. He says he wants reconciliation and accountability. 
 
QUESTION:  Do you think you have any responsibility in the breakdown of the relationship?
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
PRINCE HARRY:  Without question, I'm sure. But what people don't know is the efforts that I have gone to, to resolve this privately. There is --
 
FOSTER (voice-over):  But in interviews and on the page, the prince reveals family rivalries, private conversations, personal misgivings, with 
 
 consequences as yet unknown. The palace has repeatedly reasserted its silence. 
 
One revelation, that Camilla, the queen consort, leaked stories in a campaign to be queen. 
 
PRINCE HARRY:  With a family built on hierarchy and with her on the way to being queen consort, there was going to be people or bodies left in the 
 
 street because of that. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over):  Then there was the family's distrust of Meghan. 
 
PRINCE HARRY:  "He has changed, she must be a witch." 
 
FOSTER (voice-over):  Prince William and Kate did not get on with Meghan from the get-go, he says. 
 
PRINCE HARRY:  Some of the things that my brother and sister-in-law, some of the way that they were acting or behaving definitely felt to me as 
 
 though, unfortunately, that stereotyping was causing a bit of a barrier. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over):  Harry says he does not speak to his brother or father anymore. He was denied a seat on the plane to Scotland with them when Queen 
 
 Elizabeth died. 
 
So has he burnt bridges completely?
 
PRINCE HARRY:  Well, they have shown absolutely no willingness to reconcile up until this point. And I am not sure how honesty is burning bridges. 
 
 Silence only allows the abuser to abuse, right?
 
So I don't know how staying silent is ever going to make things better. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over):  Having already spoken to ABC, CBS and ITV, Harry's media round continues on Tuesday, with an appearance on "The Late Show" 
 
 with Stephen Colbert. 
 
What would Diana, his mother, have made of the situation?
 
PRINCE HARRY:  I think she would be sad. I think she would be looking at it long term, to know that there are certain things that we need to go through 
 
 to be able to heal the relationship. I think she would be heartbroken that it has ended up where it has ended up. 
 
FOSTER (voice-over):  Max Foster, CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDERSON:  Well, if I say the name Wrexham, you may look nonplused. But if I mention Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney, I have probably got your 
 
 attention. Two years ago, they bought a tiny football club in England's Fifth Division. This weekend, they had one of the biggest shocks in 
 
 football. It was in the FA Cup. Listen to what Rob had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ROB MCELHENNEY, ACTOR AND WREXHAM CO-OWNER:  It is pretty overwhelming. I would say I received more texts this weekend, especially from my friends in 
 
 the U.K. and my friends who just follow sports and now follow "Welcome to Wrexham" and Wrexham, more texts than I have ever gotten in my entire life. 
 <br>[10:45:00]
 
(SPORTS) 
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END