Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Schumer Asks FDA To Look Into "Prime" Energy Drinks; Interview With Sabrina Singh, Deputy Pentagon Press Secretary, Senator Tuberville's Blocking Military Nominations Over Defense Department Abortion Policy; NATO Chief: Turkey Agrees To Back Sweden's NATO Bid; Search Intensifies For Survivalist Prison Escapee. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired July 10, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:01] 
 
MEG TIRRELL, CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I've been talking with the folks that are familiar with how the FDA approaches this thing, including former FDA Commissioner Dr. Scott Gottlieb. You know, he points out when he was in the office a few years ago, he used things like public health advisories. They're sort of a softer way of at least putting information out there so that people know about a situation. But it's not going so far as to send an actual warning letter or any kind of strict enforcement. That may be, if we see anything from the FDA, what they end up doing here. But of course, we haven't heard back from the agency yet. We don't know yet what they might do. 
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Vanessa, the marriage concern from lawmakers, including Senator Chuck Schumer is that this is being marketed to kids. That's his allegation. How is Prime energy drink being marketed? 
 
VANESSA YURKEVICH, CNN BUSINESS AND POLITICS CORRESPONDENT: This has taken off like wildfire on social media. On TikTok alone, Prime has 3.4 million followers, 42 million likes. The co-founders of this company, Logan Paul and KSI have millions of followers of their own and they do a lot of advertising for their company. 
 
And the energy market for drinks is huge. I mean, $58 billion in 2022, $62 billion in 2023 and the next four years it's looking like $83 billion. And a lot of what we're seeing is these brands putting their name behind big companies as well, like the Dodgers. They're sponsoring the dodgers. They're sponsoring Arsenal. They're sponsoring Barcelona, a soccer team that many kids, tweens and teens like. 
 
And the company is saying though in response to this by Senator Schumer that it's very important to draw the distinction between the two. The energy drink, which is in a can and the hydration drink, which is in a bottle. They also go on to say that they are falling within the legal limits of the countries that it's sold in. They're complying with FDA guidelines. And they go ahead to welcome the FDA to comment on this. You know, they want to provide a healthy drink to everybody that they're trying to market it to. And they say, hey, FDA, if you have problems, come talk to us, we're willing to listen. 
 
SANCHEZ: Vanessa Yurkevich, Meg Tirrell, thanks so much for the reporting -- Jim. 
 
JIM SCIUTTO, CNN HOST: Ahead on CNN NEWS CENTRAL, presidential hopeful Ron DeSantis is reacting as some Republicans sound the alarm over his campaign. Hear who he blames for being so far behind in the polls. 
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
SCIUTTO: Today the Pentagon says it is continuing to engage with Senator Tommy Tuberville as the Alabama Republican continues to hold firm on his pledge to block all military promotions for high-ranking officers. Since February, he has blocked hundreds of promotions, this over his objection to a Pentagon abortion policy. This comes as the joint chiefs finds itself without a congressionally confirmed Marine commandant for the first time for well over a century in this country. General David Burger officially retired this morning. He leaves behind an interim leader, General Eric Smith to take his place for now. 
 
Deputy Pentagon Press Secretary Sabrina Singh is with me. I first want to go to Manu Raju on Capitol Hill because he has just spoken to Senator Tuberville. What did he have to say? Any movement?
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: No, no movement. In fact, he says that he has not heard from the Secretary of Defense since February. So they spoke for about 10 minutes at that point, urged him to back off his position. He said his position has not changed. He wants the Pentagon to drop its policy regarding abortion and reimbursement for servicemembers who have to travel to get abortions -- abortion services. He says that that policy needs to go or it needs to be a vote on the Senate floor on this issue. Something that Democratic leaders will not give him. 
 
And when I asked him just moments ago, about the fact that this will be the first time in more than 160 years that the Marine Corps will be without a confirmed head of the service. He made clear that will not change his mind. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEN. TOMMY TUBERVILLE (R-AL): No, not going to change my approach. You know, it is what it is. Now I've met with General Smith right before he left, a great guy. He'll do a really good job. He's a deputy. So he's assumed the duties already. So it's not like it's void of a position, it's just the name. And so, you know, we're voting on people this week that oversee 20 people. One person. Why don't we vote on these people one at a time? We can do that. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
RAJU: So he was referring to the acting head who will potentially have to perform more than one job at a time as no confirmed head of the Marine Corps has been approved by the Senate. He said he was not concerned about that prospect, of having to do two at a time. He said that General Smith had indicated that the job would get done. So making clear that there's no movement. He is also at the moment meeting with the Joint Chiefs of Staff nominee, General C.Q. Brown, who also could be held up for some time. But Tuberville indicating that he believes that Brown will be confirmed. It will only be a matter of time before that happens, as he makes clear -- Tuberville does -- that he's not changing his approach -- Jim. 
 
[15:40:00 him]
 
SCIUTTO: Meanwhile, hundreds of others waiting for those promotions as well to key positions. Manu Raju on Capitol Hill, thanks so much. 
 
So, let's go back to the Deputy Pentagon Press Secretary, Sabrina Singh who's with me here. First, if I could ask you to respond to Senator Tuberville's claim there, that there has been no outreach from the defense secretary on these appointments. Is that true? 
 
SABRINA SINGH, DEPUTY PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: Well, thanks, Jim, for having me today. I really appreciate the opportunity to be here. The secretary was made very clear when he first spoke to Senator Tuberville back in March that we were not changing the department's policy on reproductive health. But we have continued to engage with the Senator. We have engaged with his staff. We in fact, spoke today with his staff about an issue regarding General Brown being on The Hill today. So we do continue to engage with his staff. 
 
But again, this is really in the hands of Senator Tuberville. And what's concerning is that Senator Tuberville -- someone is on the Senate Armed Services Committee does not understand what impact that these holds have on the military and its services. 
 
I heard Manu say just then that General smith reassured the Senator that the work of the military of course will still get done. Yes, it will but General Smith is now stepping into a role where he's occupying two positions at the same time, a dual-headed role at a time when Russia is our acute threat and we have the growing threat of China just under way. And so, I think it's very important and very concerning that the Senator does not impact the -- and not overstep impact these hold back. 
 
SCIUTTO: So Austin's position is not changing. The administration's position not changing on the abortion issue. Tuberville just said moments ago he's not budging. The president, as you know, has said repeatedly he's someone who can work with Republicans to get things done. Why isn't this getting done here? Those appointments are still going nowhere. 
 
SINGH: Well, we can certainly work with Republicans. And in fact, Senator Tuberville has heard from Republicans within his own party criticizing his decision. And we're certainly in touch with those Republicans and Democrats across the aisle. Again, this is a decision -- this was not a policy change. The secretary was very clear about what the policy was and what the department is doing to allow equity across our service members serving all across our country. It is really in the hands of Senator Tuberville and what Senate Republicans want to do to pressure him to let these folk -- and again, I would just emphasize, these are not political nominees. These are generals and flag officers that have close to almost 40 years of experience serving under different administrations. So this is not a political fight that I think Senator Tuberville thinks that it is. 
 
SCIUTTO: OK, another topic here. Because we just have the news that Turkey has now agreed to back Sweden's NATO bid. Of course, it was a year ago at the NATO Summit in Madrid that there was agreement then but since then Turkey has been throwing up roadblocks here. And even earlier today there was some question whether Turkey would come through. Can you let us know exactly how this came to be, what agreements were made? Was anything offered in return? 
 
SINGH: Well, thanks for the question. Unfortunately, I'm just hearing the news as you're reading it out to me so I'm not exactly sure if any arrangements or agreements had been made. But we've been confident, as administration, that Sweden would be the 32nd country admitted to NATO. So if there is in fact a clear path and Turkey has lifted its opposition to Sweden joining NATO, we certainly welcome that news. And I just would mention that on the -- as we're starting the NATO Summit in Vilnius, in Lithuania, NATO is even stronger and more united than it has been, even bigger than before with 31 countries and now hopefully with the 32nd as well. 
 
SCIUTTO: Before we go, I want to ask you about the administration's decision to go ahead and send cluster munitions to Ukraine. As you know, this is a weapon that's been banned by more than a hundred countries around the world. The U.S. has not signed on to that convention. But you're aware how these have been used in this context, how indiscriminately they've been used by Russia. But also how history has shown that they carry deadly impact many years, often many impacts after war. Why are these weapons necessary now? Are you concerned about the loss to some degree of the moral high ground, right, for Ukrainian forces here or at least the diminution of the moral high ground for Ukrainian forces to use such a weapon? 
 
SINGH: Well, you have heard just on your own network the president sat down and said that this was a very hard decision to make. But it's ultimately the right decision to make. We know we have to bridge our 155 rounds here and increase production here in the United States to continue Ukraine in the fight. But artillery is one of their biggest priority needs on the battlefield. And the expenditure of artillery rounds on the battlefield is quite high. 
 
[15:45:00 who]
 
And so, these cluster munitions, we are sending ones that have a dud rate of lower that 2.35 percent. We're confident that Ukraine will use these responsibly on the battlefield and we've confident that -- because they've given us their assurance of that. But this was a hard decision that the president made, that is national security team recommended to him ultimately. And it's going to keep Ukraine not only in the fight but going to keep them pushing forward and advancing in their counteroffensive. 
 
SCIUTTO: Sabrina Singh, thank you so much for joining us from the White House today -- the Pentagon, I should say. Thanks very much.
 
I do want to bring in CNN's Nic Robinson on this news just in to CNN, that Turkey has now agreed to support NATO's accession to NATO -- sorry, Sweden's accession to NATO. This is somewhat of a surprise. Because even a couple of hours ago, it wasn't clear Turkey would come through. They were connecting this to their own accession to the EU. Do we know what brought Turkey over the finish line here? 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, I think we got an idea now. NATO's Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg was hosting a meeting between President Erdogan and Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson. It is in that meeting -- and I think if we think back to earlier in the day, Stoltenberg and said that he felt that a positive outcome, a positive discussion could still be held. And now we're getting the details on it. 
 
So, what's in there? It says that since the last year, when Sweden wanted to join NATO and Turkey said you need to do more to combat the Kurdish terrorist, the PKK group, an opposition group. Obviously, not in Turkey's good books, and not in the good books of many other countries as well. 
 
Sweden has now changed its constitution, changed laws to toughen up there. Sweden has also -- this communique from NATO notes -- now restarted weapons sales to Turkey that they had stopped in the past. There's also a new commitment here, it appears from Sweden to say that they will continue this bilateral security relationship, security and cooperation relationship with Turkey. 
 
This is something new that had begun last year and this is now being more formalized. It appears to be more of an ongoing event, this is a long-term commitment and understanding from Sweden towards combating counterterrorism and also the YPG, the Syrian Kurdish group, is also now on Sweden's list of countries -- a list of groups to keep on their radar at the demand of the Turks. 
 
SCIUTTO: We know some U.S. Senators, including the Republican leader, has raised the possibility of withholding U.S. weapon sales to Turkey as a way to apply pressure, F-16s. Do we know if that was a factor in Turkey in effect changing its mind here? 
 
ROBINSON: Look, I think -- let's read the information that we have and I think it shades us to believe that possibly that was part of it. When Jake Sullivan was speaking on Air Force One just before it arrived in the U.K. last night. President Biden had just wrapped up a long telephone conversation with President Erdogan. When Jake Sullivan, national security advisor, then explained what had been that conversation. He spoke about the upgrade to the F-16s that Erdogan wanted and then immediately moved on to the situation of Sweden being allowed into NATO and for Turkey to stop blocking that. So, you know, I think it's clear in the way the narrative is being woven that this was the possibility of leverage and it certainly -- if it's clear to us as readers, it was likely clear to Erdogan as well. 
 
SCIUTTO: Notable timing of the mention of the F-16s. Nic Robertson at number 10, thanks very much -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: We're following another battle on Capitol Hill among Republicans. Cracks are showing within the Freedom Caucus after Georgia Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene was booted from the group after her flight which fell Republican Lauren Boebert. CNN's Jake Tapper is tackling this in just a few minutes on "THE LEAD." He's here with us now. So Jake, how is this different from other clashes within the party? 
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR, THE LEAD: Well, this is really internal just in this small sect of very conservative Freedom Caucus activists. It's really remarkable that they have voted to boot Marjorie Taylor Greene who has been very conservative and with them on a lot of these policies from the very beginning. 
 
You might remember that 18 of the 20 members of the House Freedom Caucus voted against currently House Speaker Kevin McCarthy. And Marjorie Taylor Greene has been an ally of Kevin McCarthy and that's likely one of the things at play here is perhaps how much they feel they can trust her. And the fact that she's allied with the Speaker and they've been a thorn in the side of every House Republican leader since the caucus began. 
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
We're going to talk to former Republican Congressman Adam Kinzinger of Illinois about this warfare and what it exactly means for the Republican caucus going forward, the greater caucus. Because remember, Kevin McCarthy's majority is very, very slim. And in fact, one member can go to the floor of the House and vote to force a vote on whether or not he should continue to be Speaker. 
 
SANCHEZ: That's part of the reason that he reportedly has backed Marjorie Taylor Greene and said that she's now someone who is in his inner circle, I guess. Jake Tapper, "THE LEAD" starts in just a few minutes, starting at 4 p.m. Thanks so much Jake -- Jim.
 
SCIUTTO: Coming up next, another story we're following. An update on the manhunt for an escape murder suspect with known survivalist skills. Where police say they've now found camp sites they believe are connected to him.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:55:12]
 
SANCHEZ: Right now a manhunt in Pennsylvania for a prison escapee is intensifying after state police say they found small stock piles they believe are linked to him. Officials describe Michael Burham as a dangerous self-taught survivalist. They say he broke out of the Warren County prison Thursday by using tied up bed sheets to descend from the roof. CNN's Brynn Gingras has been following this story for us. So Brynn, where exactly are authorities looking for him? 
 
BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Boris, you know, it is an intensive effort happening in northwestern part Pennsylvania looking for 31-year-old Michael Burham. He was behind bars for possible being related to a homicide, also to kidnapping and burglary. But as you said, he escaped last week by hoisting himself up on some exercise equipment and then descending from the roof of that county jail with a tied-up bed sheet. Now that area in Northwest Pennsylvania is very thick -- when
 
 searching those areas which are very popular for camp sites. And they did find some areas that they do think possibly relating to Burham being there. But as you said, Boris, he is known to be a self-taught survivalist. He has been in the military. So he has a little bit of expertise behind him and authorities have not yet been able to find him. I want you to listen to authorities as they talk about that area that they are continuing to search at this very minute. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LT. COL. GEORGE BIVENS, PA STATE POLICE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF OPERATIONS: The terrain is very rugged. It's steep. We're using aviation assets to support their operations. But there are a number of places you just have to go on foot if you want to truly search it. And so, it is taking a lot of time and effort to search those areas. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GINGRAS: And in just about four minutes at the top of the hour, we are expected to get an update from authorities who are leading this search. Again, it involves several different agencies. There's actually a reward, Boris, almost $10,000 is being given out if someone can help lead to his capture. It's important to note right now, authorities are telling people in that area to go about your daily business, but at the same time, if you can think about sort of a rural area, Boris, people don't lock their doors. They're say do that. Make sure your car is locked up. Don't do anything that would help him. They think possibly could be armed and dangerous. So any information is going to help as this manhunt continues -- Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: We know you'll keep us posted on the latest details on this manhunt. Brynn Gingras, thank you so much. 
 
And thank you so much for joining us this afternoon. 
 
SCIUTTO: Listen, a big news day. Turkey agreeing to let Sweden into NATO. As of a few hours ago did not look like it was even close. It's something we're going to continue to follow on CNN. And "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts right after this.