Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Over 230,000 Attend Pele's Funeral, Thousands Turned Away; NFL's Damar Hamlin in Critical Condition after Cardiac Arrest; Israeli Minister Sparks Anger after Visit to Al-Aqsa Compound; China Criticizes Restrictions Imposed against Its Travelers; Number of Deaths in Ukraine's Makiivka is "Being Clarified"; Prince Harry's Tell-All Book. Aired 10-11a ET

Aired January 03, 2023 - 10:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[10:00:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
ELENI GIOKOS, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Farewell to the king. The wake for the football icon Pele ended after 24 hours and his 
 
 funeral is taking place today. 
 
There is shock and concern after a 24-year old NFL star collapsed on the field during a game. We are live in Cincinnati, where Damar Hamlin is being 
 
 treated. 
 
And far-right Israeli minister Itamar Ben-Gvir has sparked anger by visiting the Al-Aqsa compound. We are live in Jerusalem for reaction. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
GIOKOS:  I'm Eleni Giokos. Welcome to CONNECT THE WORLD, we're live from Dubai. 
 
A national hero, a global icon, a sports legend:  Pele on his final journey through the streets of Santos, Brazil. The city where he played, the city 
 
 where he lived and the city where he will be laid to rest. 
 
We're watching the funeral procession for the late footballer, who died last week at the age of 82. The casket is on its way to the cemetery for a 
 
 private funeral service. The 24-hour public wake so packed with mourners, thousands of people in line were turned away. 
 
More than 230,000 people paid their respects, according to the Santos football club. Among them, Brazilian president Lula da Silva. We have 
 
 Stefano Pozzebon and Julia Vargas Jones live in Santos, Brazil. Also joining us, is CNN senior sports analyst, Darren Lewis, 
 
Julia, I want to start with you. We have President Lula da Silva attending, celebrating Pele's life. I want you to give me a sense of the messaging 
 
 from the president, the newly appointed president. 
 
JULIA VARGAS JONES, CNN PRODUCER:  On Sunday, he was inaugurated and he went to work. He already started signing executive orders and meeting with 
 
 leaders from Latin America and Africa. 
 
But today he came here, he had to. 
 
How could you not? 
 
What Pele meant for the Brazilian people is so much larger than life. He had to be here. Let me tell you, there was a crowd of people outside the 
 
 stadium in the VIP entrance waiting for Lula. When he arrived, the crowd erupted, they chanted Lula, Lula. 
 
It's something that you might not have seen a few months ago, when Brazil was so much more deeply divided. I'll say, it still is but they're turning 
 
 the page. There was a moment there we weren't so sure if there would be a peaceful transition of power on Sunday. 
 
But with president Jair Bolsonaro leaving the country for Florida, it opened the way for Lula to step in and start moving forward, start focusing 
 
 on new policies and start uniting the country. 
 
That was his messaging on Sunday, at the inauguration in Brasilia, inclusion, togetherness, moving together. He says he will govern for all 
 
 Brazilians, not just for those who voted for him. 
 
He has a coalition to appease. He's made a lot of political pacts that he will have to respect in the coming years. I think the population, the 
 
 people of Brazil, they are ready to just put all of that aside and move on, to just be together and to celebrate Brazil. 
 
That is what Pele is allowing us to do. We can focus on Brazilian heritage, on what we can achieve when we come together. You know Pele was really an 
 
 inspiration for so many, outside of soccer, outside of football. 
 
He inspired little children, Black, poor children to see what they could achieve not only in sport but outside of sport, for myself included. You 
 
 see someone from Brazil achieving so much on our world stage, getting that kind of recognition, it shows you what you can also do. 
 
I'm sure that Lula will take a little bit of the momentum of this part of history, if he is smart enough, take that into his leadership. 
 
He can capitalize on this, to bring people even closer together and start the new year, start his new mandate, his third mandate after 12 years away 
 
 from power in a different light with a Brazil that is more united and looking forward. 
 <br>[10:05:00]
 
GIOKOS:  You know, reflecting on this moment, Julia, an enduring legacy of Pele, are you even able to interject, intervene in the current political 
 
 scenario, bringing a country together even in death. 
 
It is unbelievable to see the symbolism behind it. You Julia, also speaking to so many people in the crowds. You've been speaking to people that have 
 
 gone to pay their respects. 
 
I'm sure the emotions are high, a mixture of pain but also a celebration of a man that had such an enormous impact in what he did because he 
 
 transcended the sport far beyond just being on the pitch, right?
 
JONES:  Absolutely. There are people that told me that Pele's death is like taking away a piece of the country's soul. Taking a little piece of 
 
 Brazil's heart. People told me, there will never be another Pele because he was a trail blazer. 
 
You can't copy him, because he did something at a time when it was unthinkable. His achievements could never be replicated. You'd have to go 
 
 back in time. Ladies, old ladies and young kids, telling me about what he meant to them. Some people, they weren't even alive to see him play. 
 
You know we spoke to a 5-year old in line, that told us that he just wanted to catch a glimpse of Pele before he was brought here to the cemetery for 
 
 his final resting place. A 16-year old said the highlight of his brief, young life was to have met Pele and just take a photo with him. 
 
That was who he was. He was a natural for the limelight. He was a celebrity, he was the embodiment of a celebrity. So it was easy for people 
 
 to connect with him, because he would come to your level. 
 
He would show up and say, hi, hello, sign shirts and he had this beautiful handwriting. Anybody that has an autograph from him says, look, it's so 
 
 pretty, the way he writes his name. 
 
We met people that had shirts signed by Pele. They tell us they haven't washed it in 20 years. That's the legacy he's leaving behind. That's how 
 
 people remember him. I think this morning, as his casket was being taken from the stadium, into the fire truck that you probably see in those live 
 
 images, there was a big drumline surrounding that fire truck. 
 
There's a big sendoff from the organized cheering squad, telling us that, we are celebrating his legacy. It's not only a solemn time; yes, the 
 
 ceremony that will take place behind me, it will be a solemn moment for the family, it's private. 
 
But the public, they want to celebrate his legacy and who he was and what he meant for the entire country. So there is a moment of joy. I think 
 
 people are allowing themselves to let it all out, especially after this very difficult year. 
 
We're also coming out of a pandemic. Brazil was hit so hard, so many deaths; 700,000, I believe. And this is an opportunity to come together, to 
 
 celebrate the legacy of a man that just means so much, Eleni, to Brazilians. 
 
GIOKOS:  Yes, and I can hear the emotion in your voice. I'm watching this, feeling emotional, I'm seeing the lines, the queues. He meant so much to 
 
 all of us. I can't underscore that enough. 
 
Stefano, we weren't able to bring you up on live picture but we've been able to establish contact with you on the phone. You've been outside his 
 
 100-year old mother's home. His casket passing through there as well. Share with us what people are telling you, how they're feeling, your experience, 
 
 being on the ground. 
 
STEFANO POZZEBON, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Eleni, you won't see me on the screen because actually (INAUDIBLE) is on the screen right now. You see 
 
 that the fire truck that is carrying Pele's casket is turning the corner, less than 60 meters away from his mother's house, (INAUDIBLE) his family, 
 
 his sister is there (ph).
 
(INAUDIBLE) a flag of Brazil and all around, just before the fire truck, there are thousands of supporters, who are here to see this historic 
 
 moment. The fact that there's a reporter on the camera right now, (INAUDIBLE) what we're seeing now is what's important. We see the flag of 
 
 the organized supporters now, the (INAUDIBLE) football club, the old club (ph) of Pele. 
 <br>[10:10:00]
 
POZZEBON:  Roads is (sic) beginning to be cleared in front of us. Of course, people will say sometimes, that is history. History is taking place 
 
 in front of our eyes. 
 
All the eyes of the world are on this moment. It is going to (INAUDIBLE).
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
GIOKOS:  Stefano, Stefano, unfortunately your line is -- your line is intermittent. We're going to have to say goodbye. But we're going to catch 
 
 up with you in the next hour. 
 
These are live images coming through from Santos, Brazil. You can see the fire engine there, carrying the casket with Pele, driving through the 
 
 streets of Santos, Brazil, heading toward a private funeral. 
 
We have been covering the 24-hour wake over the past day and this is the final goodbye. This is the final goodbye for Pele. 
 
Darren Lewis, also standing by for us, I don't know if you can see these images,  unbelievable seeing tens of thousands of people in the streets of 
 
 Santos. It is emotive, it shows just how powerful Pele is and will remain in our lifetime. 
 
I'm sure many generations to come, his legend will live on. FIFA boss Infantino said that he wants to build a Pele stadium in every country 
 
 across the world. It's ambitious but it just speaks to his enduring and powerful legacy, doesn't it?
 
DARREN LEWIS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It really does, Eleni, and you use such a key word, there legacy because he does leave a football legacy. We've 
 
 talked about it many times over the past few days, the 77 goals he scored to make him the joint top scorer for his country. 
 
The three World Cups, the only footballer ever to manage that in the men's game and his ability to connect the world with a love of his incredible 
 
 skill on the pitch. 
 
But there is also, more importantly, that societal legacy, that Julia did so well to sum up and Stefano as well to touch on, because you know he gave 
 
 a voice to Black Brazilians, Eleni. 
 
Bear in mind he was born only 50 years or so after the abolition of slavery in Brazil. He helped to fight racism. He was, for me -- I know there's lots 
 
 of debate about it but, for me, he was the first Black global sporting superstar, I'd argue, ahead of the likes of Jesse Owens and Jackie Robinson 
 
 and even the legendary Muhammad Ali. 
 
If you think about Neymar, it was his post, the PSG superstar, last week, that, for me, spoke best to the legacy of the greatest footballer of all-
 
 time. 
 
He said, look, Pele give a voice to the poor, to Black people and especially to Brazil. That, Eleni, is why these scenes of chaos, these 
 
 streets being lined with hundreds of thousands of people wanting to say that a final goodbye, on his final journey. 
 
Because this was a man of the people. I think about the time that he scored the 1000th goal and he used that platform to remind the world, that, while 
 
 they were seduced by his brilliance on the pitch, that they should think about those people last well off. 
 
They should think about their relationship with people of a different color, a different, race a different social class. He was the embodiment of 
 
 so much more than football, of sport. And she was absolutely right. This is the man that stands astride of the beautiful game. 
 
He's a guy who just impacted, transcends sport and will be remembered forever. 
 
GIOKOS:  He will indeed. Watching these images, Darren, Julia and Stefano, I am moved, I'm sure our viewers are as well, as we bid farewell to Pele. 
 
 It is a sad moment but, as you say, Darren, as we reflect back on his incredible life and just what he was able to achieve, breaking through 
 
 limitations, social structures through political issues. 
 
He was an incredible man, an incredible voice, in incredible player. These are images coming through from Santos, Brazil. We'll continue covering the 
 
 story. 
 
Thank you to Darren, Julia and Stefano. 
 
American football is in shock today, after a member of the Buffalo Bills collapsed on the field during an NFL game. 
 <br>[10:15:00]
 
GIOKOS:  Damar Hamlin, wearing number 3 here, suffered a cardiac arrest after making a routine tackle during the first quarter of the game. Doctors 
 
 rushed onto the field and had to perform CPR to restore his heartbeat. He was taken by ambulance to a nearby hospital. 
 
CNN's Adrienne Broaddus is at the Cincinnati Medical Center, where Hamlin is being treated. 
 
Adrienne, what do we know and what do we understand about his current condition?
 
From the details we saw overnight -- and I've been watching our coverage from earlier this morning -- he received assistance within seconds of 
 
 collapsing and now currently in hospital. 
 
ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, you're absolutely right. Within 10 seconds, medics were at his side. They performed CPR for at least nine 
 
 minutes, right there on the field. Everyone in this stadium was watching. 
 
We do know he's here at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center, listed in critical condition, according to the Buffalo Bills. He is also on a 
 
 ventilator. 
 
Some of the players, his teammates, did not travel back home; they stayed behind to be here with him and to support his family. One of those players 
 
 that we do know that stayed here was Stefon Diggs. This after the Bills say Damar Hamlin suffered a cardiac arrest. 
 
However, the miracle his family hoped for, at least one, happened on the field. The Bills telling us medics were able to restore his heartbeat 
 
 before he was transferred here. 
 
Now earlier this morning, we spoke with a man who identifies himself as a close friend of Damar. He said, if anyone is a fighter, it is Damar. We've 
 
 seen him fight on the field and lead his team to victory. But right now, that 24 year old NFL star is fighting for his life. Listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JORDON ROONEY, DAMAR HAMLIN'S FRIEND AND MARKETING REP:  Be patient right now. I think there is a lot of narratives going around and a lot of people 
 
 want certain answers. 
 
But like this is a human being who has a family. And their well-being, his well-being is what is most important. I'm excited for him to bounce back 
 
 from this because Damar is someone who -- he will use things like this, adversity, and he will make sure he inspires plenty of other people along 
 
 the way. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROADDUS:  And last night, fans from both teams were seen here at the hospital, holding vigil. We're also told by the Bills that Damar will 
 
 undergo some additional testing today. Back to you. 
 
GIOKOS:  Adrienne Broaddus, thank you very much for that update. 
 
"The most irresponsible man in the Middle East," that's how former Israeli prime minister Yair Lapid is describing far-right politician Itamar Ben-
 
 Gvir. 
 
The newly appointed Israeli national security minister is sparking anger after visiting the Temple Mount, known to Muslims as Haram al-Sharif, 
 
 earlier today. It's a key Jerusalem holy site and historical flashpoint.
 
You're looking at video of the visit published on Israeli media. Egypt and Jordan, along with Palestinian Authority, have condemned Ben-Gvir's visit. 
 
 Elliott Gotkine joins us live from Jerusalem. 
 
There has been regional reaction to this, internal response as well, I want to talk about the timing of this visit and what message this is sending to 
 
 neighbors and, importantly, to politicians locally as well. 
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Eleni, the timing in terms of the day that it comes, less than a week after he was sworn in with this new right-
 
 wing government in Israel, less than a week after he was minted as the minister for national security. 
 
He said he's been to Temple Mount many times in the past but this is his first time as minister. And in terms of the timing today, it was first 
 
 thing this morning, a few minutes after sunrise. 
 
He turned up there as Israelis and Palestinians were waking up. He was in and out within 15 minutes. He did not pray, he did not go to the mosque or 
 
 anything. He was there on Temple Mount, as it's known to Jews, or the Al- Aqsa compound or Haram al-Sharif, as it is known to Muslims. 
 
And then he left. There was no violence. There was no real issue there. But as you say, people, both in Israel, in the Palestinian Territories and in 
 
 the region and abroad have been almost falling over themselves to condemn this. 
 
We heard from the Palestinian foreign ministry, saying that we strongly condemn extremist Ben-Gvir for storming of the Al-Aqsa mosque -- as I said, 
 
 he didn't go to the mosque. 
 
Hamas, the militant group that controls the Gaza Strip, saying that his visit, Ben-Gvir's visit, was setting the region on fire. 
 
The Egyptians talked of negative repercussions. 
 <br>[10:20:00]
 
GOTKINE:  The Emirates, the United Arab Emirates, now, of course, with normalized relations with Israel, said they strongly condemned the 
 
 storming, in their words, of the Al-Aqsa Mosque courtyard. 
 
And even Yair Lapid, up until last week, prime minister of Israel, saying that it was a provocation that could cost human lives. 
 
Ben-Gvir coming out himself and saying, look, the Temple Mount is open to everyone. And if Hamas thinks that it threatens me, it will deter me, let 
 
 them understand that times have changed. 
 
Now I think, despite all of those words from Ben-Gvir, from people in the region and the Palestinians, of course, the two main voices we need to pay 
 
 attention to most are those of the United States and prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
 
We heard from the U.S. embassy spokesman, saying that ambassador night (ph) has been very clear in conversations with the Israeli government on the 
 
 issue of preserving the status quo in Jerusalem's holy site. 
 
Actions, the spokesman said, preventing that are unacceptable. Subsequently President Netanyahu felt compelled to put out his own statement. His office 
 
 saying that Prime Minister Netanyahu is committed to strictly maintaining the status quo without changes on the Temple Mount. 
 
Reiterating what he said before his government was sworn in. It's important to note that although Ben-Gvir had advocated for a change in the status 
 
 quo, that is not the policy of this government. Eleni.
 
GIOKOS:  All right, Elliott Gotkine, thank you very much for breaking it down for us. 
 
Now double standard and dirty political trick, Chinese media taking aim at countries imposing restrictions on travelers from China, as Beijing vows to 
 
 hit back. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
GIOKOS:  China is threatening countermeasures against several countries that have imposed tougher restrictions against its travelers, calling them 
 
 excessive and unacceptable. It comes amidst a surge in COVID cases across China that have left Shanghai hospitals filled with patients. 
 
South Korea meanwhile is extending its curbs, now requiring passengers from Hong Kong and Macau to test before departure. CNN's international 
 
 correspondent Ivan Watson is following the latest developments for us from Hong Kong. 
 
China is saying these restrictions are excessive and unacceptable. You know, from zero COVID to now an open China, is the calculation here that 
 
 this could be an unknown factor in dealing with COVID and the pandemic at a global level?
 
IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, I think there is concern, that if you're going to have the most populous country in the 
 
 world with massive numbers of COVID infections, perhaps in the tens of millions daily. 
 <br>[10:25:00]
 
WATSON:  That new variants, dangerous variants could crop up. That is a concern. 
 
And there has been criticism, including from the World Health Organization, that the Chinese government is not being transparent enough about this. 
 
That is where we're starting to see the backlash from the Chinese government and state media, which the "Global Times" tabloid newspaper has 
 
 singled out the U.S. and Japan, accusing them of trying to smear China. 
 
Meanwhile, take a listen to what the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson had to say about the growing number of governments that are imposing some 
 
 of these travel restrictions on travelers from China. Take a listen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAO NING, SPOKESPERSON, CHINESE FOREIGN MINISTRY (through translator):  We are willing to strengthen communication with the international community 
 
 and work hard together to overcome the epidemic. 
 
In the meantime, we believe that some countries have taken inter (ph) restrictions targeting China. This lacks scientific basis and some 
 
 practices are unacceptable. 
 
We firmly oppose any attempts to manipulate epidemic prevention measures in order to achieve political goals. We will take countermeasures, based on 
 
 the principle of reciprocity. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WATSON:  Not sure what those countermeasures might be yet. But take a look at this map that CNN has put together. It has compiled the growing number 
 
 of countries that are putting the brakes on travel from China. 
 
Most of them, like the U.S., are saying we want travelers to get a negative COVID test before they get on the plane to fly to our territory. Others, 
 
 like South Korea, are limiting flights for the next month from China and imposing mandatory testing upon arrival at the airport. 
 
On the first day of this new measure, this is Monday, out of 309 new arrivals, the Korean authorities say they tested at least 61 people 
 
 positive for COVID. 
 
Other countries, like Morocco, have gone a step further, completely banning, prohibiting travel from China to Moroccan soil for the time being. 
 
And this is frankly embarrassing to Beijing, which has basically imposed isolation for the better part of three years, closing its borders, while 
 
 maintaining zero COVID. Now that COVID is growing out of control across China, it has announced that, as of Sunday, it is going to end mandatory 
 
 quarantine for people coming into the country. 
 
Just as it's doing this, other countries are saying, we're not sure we want lots of COVID-19-positive Chinese travelers coming to our airports right 
 
 now. Eleni.
 
GIOKOS:  All right, Ivan Watson, thank you. 
 
And still ahead, it is one of the deadliest single strikes against Russia in occupied Eastern Ukraine. Now there is growing anger in Russia against 
 
 its own commanders, who, some say, ignored the dangers. A live report from Ukraine just ahead. 
 
And a last-minute dash to the finish line as the U.S. Congress is set to be gaveled in. 
 
Can Republican leader Kevin McCarthy get the votes he needs for House leadership?
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:30:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
GIOKOS:  Welcome back, I'm Eleni Giokos in Dubai. You are watching CONNECT THE WORLD. 
 
To Ukraine now and a deadly New Year's Day strike in the occupied Donetsk region. This dispute over the number of Russian troops killed in that 
 
 attack, Moscow confirmed 63 fatalities, the Ukrainian military says it will clarify the numbers after initially saying it was around 400. 
 
Meanwhile, a Russian attack on a town in the Donetsk region destroyed an ice rink and parts of a residential area. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy 
 
 warns that Russia is planning a prolonged attack but says that Ukraine is getting better at taking out drones and savoring its small victories. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator):  Our task is to give Ukraine successes, achievements, even small victories over 
 
 terrorists and terror on a daily basis. Each shot-down drone, each shot- down missile, each day with electricity for our people and minimal schedules of power outages are exactly such victories. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
GIOKOS:  Meanwhile, there is growing anger within Russia over military officials, who ignored the dangers for their own soldiers. One Russian 
 
 lawmaker is even calling for the commanders to be punished. CNN's Scott McLean joins us live from Kyiv. 
 
Scott, good to see you. Look, the reaction to Makiyivka is quite interesting. A Russian legislator saying there should be criminal liability 
 
 for Russian officials. I want you to take me through what we're hearing from the Russian, from Russian media, also from the Telegram accounts. 
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Sure, yes, look, Eleni, the Russians have been trying to recruit young men to join the military in Russia. Certainly 
 
 news like this, especially circulating within its own country, does not help the recruitment efforts, when you hear numbers like, even the numbers 
 
 the Russians are giving out, more than 60 soldiers killed in a single attack. 
 
If you believe the Ukrainian numbers, somewhere closer to 400, with 300 injured, that is even more terrifying. 
 
You mentioned there's criticism. It appears to be growing because there is acknowledgment amongst Russian officials and also amongst pro Russian 
 
 bloggers, people who would normally not have too much critical to say to the Russian media. 
 
This number of 63, the official Kremlin number is very likely to rise, because even if you look at the latest pictures that we're seeing, that 
 
 site is a pile of rocks. There's maybe one or two walls that are still intact but that's about it. 
 
It's difficult to see how anyone could have possibly survived something like this. So not everyone has been accounted for. Not everyone has been 
 
 added to the official death toll. So it is very likely, almost certain, that the official number is likely to rise. 
 
You have pro Russian bloggers, who are saying, look, the Russian command was sloppy in this case. You have another who is saying that, even this far 
 
 into the war, there is incompetence within the ranks for allowing this many troops to be concentrated with weapons, with equipment in one relatively 
 
 small area, in one vocational school. 
 
You also have a former official from the Donetsk People's Republic, the occupied part of Ukraine, saying that, look, the Russian military still 
 
 does not quite comprehend, does not quite understand the Ukrainian capabilities when it comes to the HIMARS system, the high mobility rocket 
 
 artillery rocket system, that the Russians say was used to inflict this kind of damage. 
 
This is a multiple launch rocket system; it has a much longer range than previous Ukrainian artillery systems. It was supplied, by the way, by the 
 
 United States. 
 
Basically the message is, the Russian military leaders ought to have known better. You mentioned that Russian lawmaker, who wants to seek criminal 
 
 liability, not for the Ukrainians, not for those that actually carried out the strikes but for those who allowed these troops to essentially be 
 
 sitting ducks. 
 <br>[10:35:00]
 
MCLEAN:  One other thing to quickly mention, Eleni, that is that there was also a Russian strike outside of Kramatorsk in Eastern Ukraine. The city 
 
 was called Druzhkivka. It was a large ice rink that was hit. 
 
This was -- got quite a strong reaction from the Ukrainian foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, who said that, look, for those that think that 
 
 sports ought to be above politics, come and see the damage left from this ice rink. 
 
This was Ukraine's largest ice hockey/figure skating school. He said, places like this should not be targeted, even in war. 
 
Obviously, you also have to consider the other side of the coin, that is that, like we saw on the Russian side with this vocational school, it's 
 
 certainly not uncommon for both sides to be using empty buildings to house equipment, to be housing troops, things like that. 
 
So it is not clear why this rink was targeted. Perhaps there is more to the story than we know at this point. 
 
GIOKOS:  Yes, Scott McLean, thank you. 
 
The race for U.S. House Speaker concludes in just a few hours. It is going down to the wire. Hopeful and current House Republican leader, Kevin 
 
 McCarthy, has been pushing hard to round up the crucial 218 votes needed to control the lower chamber of U.S. Congress. But he's not quite there yet, 
 
 as CNN's Lauren Fox reports. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
REP. KEVIN MCCARTHY (R-CA):  Happy new year. I, for one, am excited for 2023.
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A speakership hanging in the balance. After months of outreach, Republican leader Kevin 
 
 McCarthy heads to the floor Tuesday, unsure if he has the votes to be the next speaker.
 
On Monday, McCarthy was asked the same question.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Do you have the speak -- the votes for speaker tomorrow?
 
MCCARTHY:  And take away all the excitement?
 
I think we'll have a good day tomorrow.
 
FOX (voice-over):  A revealing answer, showing the math problem McCarthy's been battling for weeks. With a narrow majority, he can only afford to lose 
 
 four Republican votes. So far, five Republicans have publicly said they'd vote against him. Nine more penning a letter, warning his attempts to win 
 
 them over have been too little too late.
 
Still, allies say McCarthy isn't going to bow out of the race.
 
REP. WARREN DAVIDSON (R-OH):  He's worked very hard to get the -- to et the votes. He's worked very hard to earn the job as speaker. And we'll see 
 
 whether this has placated the people that put out a list of demands. He's gone really right up to the line. He's conceded on virtually everything 
 
 that was on that two-page document.
 
FOX (voice-over):  McCarthy is determined to win, even if that means multiple rounds of balloting on the House floor, something that hasn't 
 
 happened for a century.
 
Behind the scenes, McCarthy is still scrambling for support, making key concessions to conservatives. One of them:  a rules change that would 
 
 weaken the power of the very job he's vying for and lower the threshold it takes to call for a vote to oust the speaker, from a majority to just five 
 
 members.
 
REP. BOB GOOD (R-VA):  And there's nothing he's done to earn my vote. I suspect 10 to 15 members who will vote against him on the first ballot.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS:  And there could be a real cost here if Republicans cannot pick a speaker, besides delaying the start of committee work and legislating. 
 
A letter sent to staff last week warned that if the House does not pass a rules package by January 13th, committee and staff cannot be paid. 
 
And just ahead, Prince Harry's tell-all memoir is due out next week. 
 
Could it have an impact on the British monarchy?
 
We'll take a closer look. 
 
And we will have the latest on the condition of actor Jeremy Renner, critically injured in a snowplow accident. 
 
(MUSIC PLAYING)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[10:40:00]
 
(MUSIC PLAYING) 
 
GIOKOS:  Actor Jeremy Renner has so far had two surgeries to deal with injuries he suffered in a snowplow accident on New Year's Day. He has 
 
 posted multiple videos on social media in the past of him driving snowplows. 
 
His accident on Monday resulted in what is being described as blunt chest trauma and orthopedic injuries. He remains in critical but stable 
 
 condition. The 51-year-old actor's best known for playing Hawkeye in Marvel's "Avengers" movies. 
 
And just weeks after his explosive Netflix series, Prince Harry is kicking off the new year with new revelations about his struggles with the royal 
 
 family, Buckingham Palace and the media in a new memoir. CNN's Max Foster reports for us. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT:  Prince Harry's memoir releases next week on January the 10th. This is all part of the buildup. Two interviews, 
 
 one with ITV in the U.K., one with CBS in America. 
 
In the ITV interview, Prince Harry returns to some familiar themes. According to the promotional material that's been released, he talks about 
 
 the leaking and planting of stories. 
 
He talks about the palace treating them all as an institution rather than a family. He also says he would like to have his father and his brother back. 
 
 And he feels as though the royals, he intimates this at least, that the royals feel it's better to keep the Sussexes as the villains. 
 
As far as the interview with Anderson Cooper on CBS is concerned, this is what we learned from the promotional material. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST:  One of the criticisms that you've received is that, oh, OK, fine, you want to move to California. You want to step back 
 
 from the institutional role. 
 
Why be so public?
 
You say you tried to do this privately. 
 
PRINCE HARRY, DUKE OF SUSSEX:  Every single time I tried to do it privately, there have been briefings, leakings and planting of stories 
 
 against me and my wife. You know, the family motto is never complain, never explain. But it's just a motto. And it doesn't really --
 
(CROSSTALK) 
 
COOPER:  There's a lot of complaining and a lot of explaining. 
 
PRINCE HARRY:  Right. 
 
COOPER:  It's being done in -- through leaks. 
 
PRINCE HARRY:  Through leaks. They will feed or have a conversation with the correspondent. And that correspondent will literally be spoon-fed 
 
 information to write the story. 
 
At the bottom of it, they will say they reached out to Buckingham Palace for comment. But the whole story is Buckingham Palace commenting. So when 
 
 we're being told for the last six years that we cannot put a statement out to protect you, but you do it for other members of the family, there 
 
 becomes a point when silence is betrayal. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER:  No response yet from Buckingham Palace or the royal family to Prince Harry's latest comments. They didn't respond, either, to the recent 
 
 Netflix series. This has been their policy in response to any controversial comments made recently by the Duke and Duchess of Sussex -- Max Foster, 
 
 CNN, London. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
GIOKOS:  All right, you're seeing live images coming through from Santos, Brazil, where soccer legend, soccer great Pele's funeral procession is 
 
 underway, We're covering the story for you and "WORLD SPORT" with Andy Scholes is coming up after the break. More news on the incredible king that 
 
 is Pele, after this. Stay with CNN. 
 
(WORLD SPORT)
 <br>[11:00:00]
 
END