Headline: Connect the World
Sub-headline: Survivors Desperate for News of Loved Ones; Belarusian Leader Stands Defiant Amid Growing Tensions; U.N. Secretary Council Weighs Resolution against Settlements; Abu Dhabi National Oil Company to Float 4 Percent of Gas Capital in IPO; Tesla Recalls 363,000 Cars because of Self-Driving Concern; Some have been Startled by their Conversations with Bots. Aired 11a-12p ET

Aired February 17, 2023 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
LYNDA KINKADE, CNN HOST, CONNECT THE WORLD: Hello, I'm Lynda Kinkade. Welcome to "Connect the World". We begin with the tens of thousands of 
 
 lives already lost and a death toll that keeps rising.
 
11 days after a catastrophic earthquake hit Turkey and Syria. Nearly 44,000 people have been killed in the disaster in places that were ones homes, 
 
 schools and businesses and now piles of rubble. Turkey says some 84,000 buildings have been destroyed or damaged in the quake. And it comes as UN 
 
 aid trucks are making their way across the Turkish border into Northwest Syria. 143 trucks so far.
 
It has of course taken days of diplomatic maneuvering to get relief supplies into Syria's rebel-held territory. Well, CNN has been in the quake 
 
 zone since the beginning. And I want to go live now to our Jomana Karadsheh who joins us now from Antakya one of the hardest hit cities in Turkey.
 
Good to have you with us Jomana, great to see more aid getting into Syria but also I want to talk about some of those remarkable rescues that 
 
 continue to happen 11 days after the quake.
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Lynda, a lot of these incredible rescues that are being described by people here in the Turkish media as 
 
 miracles almost every day you hear more and more of these survivors who have been pulled out of the rubble still alive after more than 200 hours of 
 
 being buried under the wreckage of their buildings.
 
But Lynda these are very rare right now. We have seen a lot of dead bodies being pulled out of different buildings, different sites across the city 
 
 and across this massive earthquake zone. I just want to set the scene of where we are right now.
 
We are as you mentioned in the City of Antakia, one of the hardest hit here in Hatay Province. And all across the city you see sites like this where 
 
 you've got these diggers and excavators working around the clock, trying to remove the debris trying to clear these areas of where once people's homes 
 
 stood.
 
And at the same time, Lynda, there are still very much active search and rescue operations taking place here. Some of those remarkable rescues we 
 
 mentioned. And then you have families people sitting around these different sites waiting for news of their loved ones.
 
It is unimaginable human suffering that we're seeing right now where people don't know what happened to their loved ones so many of them in the 
 
 thousands who don't know if they're perhaps still buried alive under the rubble or if they are dead right now? And we saw a lot of this here in the 
 
 City of Antakya where so many families are going through this unimaginable agonizing weight.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): Antakya no more they say this once bustling historic city now in ruins. It is here where hope meets despair on every 
 
 corner has seen so painful of loss so hard to comprehend. She's waited days for news for her husband, but the wait never prepares her for this. Nothing 
 
 could have prepared the people of Antakia for these grimmest of days, misery here so palpable in the air.
 
AYLIN AKYURT, SEARCHING FOR FAMILY MEMBER: We lose track of time so I don't know which day it is. But at this point, I don't think there's anybody left 
 
 for life.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): Aylin and her family have been searching for her aunt, other bodies that come out of the building first.
 
AKYURT: You go through all stages of you know, of grief. You're angry, you're desperate, you're sad. You accept then you get mad again. At this 
 
 point, we've come to accept that she's passed away but we just want to put her to a final resting place because with how it's been going leaving her 
 
 here is unimaginable.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): Around the corner the rare good news these days after more than 220 hours under the rubble, a woman and two children were 
 
 rescued alive.
 
KARADSHEH (on camera): Several bodies have also been recovered from the building. There are others still trapped inside. They don't know if they're 
 
 alive or dead.
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): They pray they find them alive. Muhammad Byram just buried his daughter and her husband, his 12 and 14 year old grandchildren 
 
 are still inside. I beg you he says just like they got that woman and two children out alive we're hoping for the same.
 <br>[11:05:00]
 
KARADSHEH (voice over): It's been the most agonizing of waits for his and other families here. May the Lord not put anyone through this, this woman 
 
 says. Muhammad hasn't eaten in 11 days he says, all he can do is her crate and weights.
 
We weren't able to get these big machines for a few days he says they had to go through other buildings here first. Maybe if they had, they would 
 
 have come out alive another call for quiet during our interview, one of many in the past few days. Rescuers hear something cheers break out. They 
 
 believe they've located two people alive.
 
A tensed wait now into the evening, the crashing sound of silence it's hardest for those who wonder if they mourn or wait. It is here where hope 
 
 fades as fast as it grows.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KARADSHEH: Lynda, the extent of the destruction across the city is just immense. You can't even find a single building here that hasn't been 
 
 impacted by the earthquake. You know, we met members of the Iraqi Search and Rescue Team last night.
 
And they were saying that as they were walking through this city as they were going through the rubble, as they were carrying out their operations 
 
 here. They said they could only think of Iraqi cities that have been impacted by heavy fighting like Mosul, for example.
 
They said that this is a catastrophe that they could only, you know, make them think about what they had seen back home. But then they're saying that 
 
 this is such a massive earthquake zone. So describing this as, you know, one Iraqi city, for example, but across such a large, large area.
 
And, you know, we talk about these buildings, this rubble, what is being removed right now. But this is not just buildings, these are people's 
 
 homes. These are people's lives that have been devastated. And I can tell you that human suffering, as you saw there in our report, it's not just the 
 
 families who are there sitting anxiously waiting for news of their loved ones some were sitting there waiting, hoping that they're going to get the 
 
 body of their loved one to be able to give them a proper burial.
 
You have people who sit around these fires around these sites, just looking at these buildings that once were their homes, and now they are displaced, 
 
 they have nowhere to go. They're living out in the open some people living in their cars, some people living in tents, people who have nowhere to go 
 
 people who are too scared to go inside buildings. I mean, the scale of this disaster is just unimaginable, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: It really is and as you say just two weeks ago, these people had a life and a city that they caught home. And that is now over. Jomana 
 
 Karadsheh, our thanks to you and your team. If you'd like to find out how you can help the earthquake survivors go to cnn.com/impact you'll find a 
 
 list of verified organizations who are working on rescue and relief efforts.
 
We want to go to Munich now where an International Security Conference coinciding with the lead up to the first anniversary of Ukraine's war is 
 
 well underway. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz spoke in the past couple of hours urging allies to act quickly to deliver tanks to Ukraine. His views 
 
 echoed those of Ukraine's President who caught on world leaders to speed up their discussions and agreements. Our Nic Robertson has more from Munich.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (on camera): He likened the conflict to David versus Goliath, where Ukraine is the David and Russia 
 
 is the Goliath and he talked to in terms of the slingshot and said all the support that the West gives that the slingshot he said there is no 
 
 alternative to victory.
 
There's no alternative to Ukraine becoming part of the European Union and no alternative to Ukraine becoming part of NATO as well. But the biggest 
 
 part of that message, the hard part, if you will, that was all about getting Ukraine, the weapons it needs quickly.
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: We need to hurry up. We need the speed, speed of our agreements, speed of our delivery to strengthen our 
 
 slink speed of decisions to limit Russian potential. There is no alternative to speed, because it is the speed that the life depends on. 
 
 Delay has always been and still is a mistake.
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): Well, Olaf Scholz German Chancellor said he will do everything he can to get tanks and additional hardware to Ukraine quickly.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
ROBERTSON (on camera): He called on other allies and partners to do that. And he said, if it would make it easier for them, because Germany, of 
 
 course produces the Leopard 2 tank, some countries have already committed to giving those tanks, others have not.
 
And Germany is quite critical of allies and partners not doing that. Olaf Scholz says, look, if it helps those countries, to send Leopard 2 tanks to 
 
 Ukraine, then we will help train the Ukrainian soldiers. So the message does seem to be being reflected back to President Zelenskyy.
 
You have our support; you have our commitment, Emmanuel Macron the French President also saying the same about supporting Ukraine. So Zelenskyy here 
 
 in a way, certainly appealing to an audience that is sympathetic towards him but he also said as well that he said by next year, we will have won 
 
 the war will be over. And I can be there with you. And I think perhaps the audience here doesn't quite buy that at the moment that the war can really be over in a year the 
 
 German Chancellor saying that he thought better to prepare for a long war.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Our thanks to Nic Robertson in Munich. Well, the German Chancellor also sat down with our Christiane Amanpour, reiterating the West commitment 
 
 to stand by Ukraine's side.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL HOST: You in your speech said we have to be ready for the long haul. I mean, you must strategize you must 
 
 think amongst yourselves how long this could last, do you have a target date?
 
OLAF SCHOLZ, CHANCELLOR OF GERMANY: I think it is wise to be prepared for a long bore. And it is wise to give putting the message that we are ready to 
 
 stay all the time together with Ukraine and that we will constantly support the country.
 
So it is not really a very good idea that in this conference or at this podium, the two of us discussed the question, when exactly in which month 
 
 this war will end? The really important decision we should take all together is saying that we are willing to do it as long as necessary and 
 
 that we will do our best.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, you can catch Christiane's volunteer the German Chancellor on her show Amanpour, that's coming up today at 7 pm in Munich at 10 pm in 
 
 Abu Dhabi.
 
Well, Belarus says it's ready to launch a production of a ground attack aircraft which it says has proven to be quite efficient in Ukraine. 
 
 President Alexander Lukashenko has been meeting with Vladimir Putin in Moscow today, where they've been discussing military cooperation. Mr. 
 
 Lukashenko has also suggested a three way summit with Putin and Joe Biden that the Kremlin says Washington is unlikely to welcome that plan.
 
All this comes as tensions have been growing on Ukraine's border with Belarus. So the concerns Belarusian forces may soon join Russia's invasion. 
 
 Our Fredrik Pleitgen is in Minsk to explain exactly what's going on.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): This is fighting in Eastern Ukraine. He is military so far repelling most Russian 
 
 attacks here, as Vladimir Putin's forces struggle losing both soldiers and armor. Putin's main ally Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko spoke to 
 
 international media for one of the first time since Russia invaded Ukraine an invasion that was started in large parts from his country. What I asked 
 
 him why he still supports Putin's war Lukashenko combative?
 
ALEANDER LUKASHENKO, BELARUSIAN PRESIDENT: This is another rhetorical question, why do you support Ukraine, pumping it with weapons instead of 
 
 sitting down to negotiate as I suggest.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Lukashenko insists Belarus won't send troops to fight alongside Russia unless directly attacked by Ukraine, but says he 
 
 still firmly stands by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Lukashenko gets angry when I asked him if he's surprised by how weak Russia's army is.
 
LUKASHENKO: You must see this is the number one army in the world fighting against you, Americans and Europeans practically against NATO using 
 
 Ukrainians and the Ukrainians are not done.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Many Belarusians opposed Lukashenko have gone to Ukraine to fight against the Russian army. We are here to prove that we 
 
 Belarusians are not our government. We don't want to be associated with that Junta that sees the power in Belarus. I mean, the Lukashenko regime 
 
 was volunteer says.
 
Near Bakhmut they often face off against mercenaries from the Wagner Private Military company Wagner boss Yevgeny Prigozhin recruited tens of 
 
 thousands of convicts from Russian jails and brought them to the front line. I asked Lukashenko how he feels about Russia using convicts as 
 
 expendable fighters.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
LUKASHENKO: Russia did indeed use convicts, but now this is forbidden. It is forbidden in Russia and Yevgeny Prigozhin and Wagner are not doing this. 
 
 It is forbidden.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): And what about the Russian Defense Ministry they are using convicts now I ask.
 
LUKASHENKO: The Minister of Defense? That's not true. The Ministry of Defense has enough mobilized resources and enough servicemen to create this 
 
 special unit if that are what they're doing. I will find out the answer to this question tomorrow.
 
PLEITGEN (voice over): Lukashenko is meeting Vladimir Putin on Friday but what Lukashenko really wants, he says is to host peace talks with Putin, 
 
 U.S. President Joe Biden and Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine and asked me to relay the message.
 
LUKASHENKO: If Biden has a desire, pass on to him through your channels that we are ready to welcome him in Minsk and have a serious talk with him 
 
 if he wishes for peace in Ukraine. Even Putin will fly to Minsk and we can meet there the three of us two aggressors and a peace loving president, why 
 
 not?
 
PLEITGEN (on camera): But of course, the Ukrainians very much believe that Alexander Lukashenko is complicit in Vladimir Putin's war against Ukraine. 
 
 And Lukashenko did make clear at that press conference that he would continue to allow the Russians to use Belarusian territory to strike 
 
 Ukraine all eyes now on that meeting between Putin and Lukashenko to see how that could shape Belarus's involvement going forward, Fred Pleitgen, 
 
 CNN, Minsk.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, President Zelenskyy is ruling out any potential peace deal with Russia that involves conceding territory. The Ukrainian President told 
 
 the BBC he believes giving up land would only keep Russia coming back for more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ZLENSKYY: Any territorial compromises he told me are only going to weaken our country. So it's not about compromise. We make millions of compromises 
 
 every day. But the question is with Putin, no, because we don't trust Putin.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Mr. Zelenskyy also says unexpected Spring Offensive has already begun. Ukrainian military official says at least five civilians were killed 
 
 in the latest Russian strikes near the City of Bakhmut. CNN's Sam Kiley joins me now live from Eastern Ukraine. Good to have you with us Sam. So I 
 
 want to start first on any room for a peace deal whatsoever given those comments we've just heard from Zelenskyy saying that there's no way Ukraine 
 
 would concede any territory to Russia.
 
SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: No, there isn't Lynda. I also think in fact, I know because the leaders around the world have said 
 
 so that they are now full squared behind President Zelenskyy in his demand that there is a total withdrawal of Russian forces from every inch of 
 
 Ukrainian soil and that includes lands that they seized and illegally annexed in 2014.
 
In particular, large chunks of what is known as the Donbas the Luhansk and Donetsk regions, but also the Crimean peninsula, which had in the past, 
 
 there had been a bit of wobbling, I think, in Europe and in parts of the U.S. administration as to whether or not it was all really worth it and 
 
 whether or not the Ukrainians might be best advised to sue for peace at some stage.
 
But that is absolutely not the position now held at all by any significant element within the Ukrainian administration at a time indeed when they are 
 
 hoping to get on the front foot early in the spring with their own offensive coming also at a time of course, when they are at least enduring 
 
 what could be called shaping operations by the Russians for what has been anticipated to be a Russian offensive being conducted in the early stages 
 
 at any rate right now Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Sam Kylie for us in Eastern Ukraine. I hope you and your team stay safe there. We will talk again soon. Well, we are teaching the police 
 
 headquarters in Pakistan, Southern Sindh Province is under attack.
 
8 to 10 militants attacked a police station in the City of Karachi with hand guns grenades, and that is according to at least one eye witnessed. 
 
 Police have still got traffic on the main road. The sounds of gunfire continue to be heard there.
 
Well, Pakistan's Taliban is claiming responsibility. We'll bring you more details on that story as it comes to hand. Still to come, the White House 
 
 is calling out the Israeli government over its settlement expansion in the West Bank, how the comments are being received in Israel? We'll get latest 
 
 from Jerusalem.
 
Plus, Abu Dhabi's National Oil Company wants to float a percentage of its gas business we'll speak to an expert who can break it all down for us 
 
 later in the show. Stay with us you're watching CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Well, this week we've covered a number of stories out of Israel and the Palestinian territories related to the conflict between both sides 
 
 as well as the internal Israeli politics. The White House has now commented on Israel's decision to expand settlements in the West Bank.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: We are deeply dismayed by Israelis announcement that they will advance thousands of new settlements 
 
 and retro actively legalized nine outposts in the West Bank that were until now illegal under Israeli law. The United States strongly opposes these 
 
 unilateral measures, which exacerbates tensions harm trust between the parties and undermine the geographic viability of the two states such 
 
 solution?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KINKADE: Well, the UN Security Council is considering a draft resolution that would demand Israel stop all settlement activity, where it is reports 
 
 that the text was drafted by the United Arab Emirates in coordination with the Palestinians, and that the council is likely to vote on it on Monday.
 
Israel knew that this announcement of settlement expansion would anger even close allies like the United States. So why did they go ahead anyway? CNN's 
 
 Hadas Gold joins us now live from Jerusalem just give us some insight into the thinking behind this.
 
HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Lynda, I mean, this is one of the largest settlement announcements in something like a decade. And I think 
 
 for the Israeli government, this is a good example of sort of the push and pull between what's happening in the internal politics here. And what's 
 
 happening with Israel on the world stage.
 
And this right wing government is really testing some of Israel's relationships with its oldest and also its newest allies. Because what's 
 
 really interesting, I think, is when you look at the makeup of the Israeli government, at least two of the parties that make up this government are 
 
 settler parties.
 
The people who lead these parties are settler leaders, some of them have even called for a complete annexation of the West Bank. And there are 
 
 reports in Israeli media that they were pushing the Israeli government and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to go even further make an even bigger 
 
 announcement.
 
So for Benjamin Netanyahu, he has to balance the sort of push from the right, while also what he knows will be likely uproar on the world stage. 
 
 It's also interesting, Lynda, that there are reports that the UAE was the one who drafted this resolution in the UN. Of course, the UAE is seen as 
 
 one of the biggest successes of the normalization agreements of the Abraham Accords. Israel often touts its relationship with the UAE.
 
And Benjamin Netanyahu himself has said that at the Abraham Accords show that the idea that peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors would only 
 
 come after peace with the Palestinians while he says that this relationship with these new normalization agreements proves that's not true. But I can I 
 
 think we can see it this shows that the Palestinian issue is still incredibly important for these new allies.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
GOLD: Now, in terms of what will happen with the U.S.? I'm sure that the Israelis were heartened to hear from the State Department. I think it was 
 
 yesterday or today saying that they believe that this UN resolution is unhelpful in supporting the conditions necessary to advance negotiations 
 
 for a two state solution.
 
But the big question for the Israelis that will likely be trying to see is what will the U.S. do in that vote in the UN? Will they just abstain? Or 
 
 will they use their very powerful veto? Israel would obviously like them to use that veto.
 
But keep in mind that it was in 2016, that the Obama Administration did not use their veto in a similar resolution against settlements. And that's 
 
 largely considered the lowest point in the U.S. Israel relationship in recent years.
 
And then the Israel's Ambassador to the UN, all he has said so far is actually he put out a letter to the UN. Not even so much mentions this 
 
 resolution and the settlements instead asking the UN to focus on the recent Israeli victims of terror he said 11 Israelis who have died in recent days 
 
 from Palestinian attacks asking the UN to condemn those attacks, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: No doubt, we will speak again Monday Hadas Gold in Jerusalem. Thanks very much. Well, I want to get you up to speed on some other stories 
 
 on our radar right now. In the family of Hollywood Superstar Bruce Willis, says he's suffering from a frontal temporal dementia, that degenerative 
 
 brain disease has no known treatment. Willis's family originally announced that he was diagnosed with Aphasia about a year ago.
 
One of China's top investment bankers is missing. China says it has been unable to contact both found its Chairman and CEO. The stock plunged about 
 
 30 percent on that announcement while he is one of the top deal makers in China's tech industry.
 
And the government protesters took to the streets in multiple cities across Iran Thursday. The demonstrations marked 40 days since the execution of two 
 
 protesters. There were some more widespread demonstrations seen in recent weeks.
 
You are watching "Connect the World". Still to come, as Europe seeks to replace Russian gas oil rich Gulf countries in the Middle East are rushing 
 
 to fill that gap, Abu Dhabi's latest move next. Also ahead the U.S. government says there's a serious safety problem with Tesla's self-driving 
 
 feature to what Elon Musk says about a major recall for the automaker.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:30:00]
 
KINKADE: Hello, I'm Lynda Kinkade. Welcome back to "Connect the World". Pakistan's Taliban is claiming responsibility for an attack on the police 
 
 headquarters in its southern Sindh province. Eight - militants attacked the police station in the city of Karachi with hand grenades and guns. That's 
 
 according to an eyewitness.
 
Police have sealed off traffic on the main road. And the sounds of gunfire continue. We have our Sophia Saifi on the line. She is following the story 
 
 from the Capitol Islamabad. What more are you learning?
 
SOPHIA SAIFI, CNN PRODUCER: And until we know that, as you just said that this been a claimant responsibility. We haven't got a confirmation from 
 
 authorities yet whether it is in fact, the Pakistani Taliban who is behind this. We know that two people are dead. We know that two people are 
 
 injured.
 
We know this is very much an ongoing situation at one of the main police headquarters in the city of Karachi. Karachi, you must understand is the 
 
 largest most populous finances center of Pakistan to be symbolic that this attack is ongoing. It's come two weeks, not even two weeks after the very 
 
 horrific attack that took place in the city of Peshawar with those two 200 people were killed in a suicide attack on a mosque.
 
So and the Taliban have claimed responsibility somewhat for this attack that took place in Peshawar. So this is an ongoing situation where we're 
 
 being told that militants, large grenades, we're being told that there's not much more information because that area, which is in very much the 
 
 heart of Karachi, it is close to the main road network of Shara-e-Faisal which connects the city airport.
 
It's quite symbolic and it's quite concerning and we're waiting to get more updates from authorities. It's a Friday night heavy traffic, lots of people 
 
 out in the road. You know, we're just concerned about what we're going to find out in the hours to come.
 
KINKADE: All right, we will stay on this story. Sophia, good to have you on the case for thanks very much. Well, French energy giant EDF suffered its 
 
 worst results in more than two decades last year with a loss of more than $19 billion.
 
The French state controlled power company has sunk further into debt, now nearly $69 billion in the red. ADF was hit hard by a price cap on energy 
 
 for French consumers. But it also dealt with the closure of many of its nuclear power stations for repairs. It looks like oil companies are 
 
 generally on the rise globally. Abu Dhabi National Oil Company or ADNOC intends to float 4 percent of its gas capital in an initial public 
 
 offering.
 
According to Reuters, ADNOC's eyeing a valuation of at least $50 billion for its gas business. Figures by the UAE Ministry of Economy show that 
 
 ADNOC produces 4 million barrels of oil and 10.5 billion cubic feet of gas per day. Well, for more on the implications of this on the energy security 
 
 issues, let's bring in Robin Mills, he is the CEO of Qamar Energy, and leading energy consulting company and joins us now live from Dubai. Good to 
 
 have you with us, Robin.
 
ROBIN MILLS, CEO, QAMAR ENERGY: Hello, good evening.
 
KINKADE: So the United Arab Emirates national oil company will sell 4 percent of its gas business in this IPO from February 23. So that's a 
 
 little less than a week away. This could potentially be the largest deal of 2023, right?
 
MILLS: Well, it looks like it. Yes, in terms of the market cap and this is, you know, a large unit, you just gave the numbers, right. And this is the 
 
 gas part, of course, as you said, producing more than 10 billion cubic feet of gas per day. And a major exporter of liquefied natural gas as well. And 
 
 as if this were a standalone company, it would be one of the largest gas companies in the world.
 
KINKADE: And talk to us about the timing of this. Why now?
 
MILLS: Well ADNOC has had over the past few years; I think it's the fifth major IPOs of different units. So it's drilling unit, for example, its fuel 
 
 retail unit. So it's been IPO in minority stakes of these on the local exchange. And those IPOs have been heavily oversubscribed have been 
 
 considered very successful.
 
So it's trying to open up its capital base to more shareholders. It's trying to make its units more commercially competitive and commercially 
 
 minded. It's trying to bring in investment into the country and not just attract domestic Investors, but also international Investors as well. And 
 
 the gas business of course has been booming for the past few years.
 
KINKADE: And speak to us more in terms of that aim attracting foreign investment in terms of long term projects. What will that sort of money 
 
 help fund?
 <br>[11:35:00]
 
MILLS: Yes, so I think the amount of money that's been raised, you know, 4 percent will raise about $2 billion, you know, so it's not really so much a 
 
 capital raising exercise. But ADNOC gas as the new unit is called will; we'll be spending very heavily. So the UAE has plans to be self-sufficient 
 
 in gas by 2030 to expand its production significantly.
 
It's also building a large new liquefied natural gas export plant. Obviously, there's huge demand for LNG right now in Europe. So in the next 
 
 few years, some extra LNG on the market will be very welcome. And then there's a lot of gas using industries in the UAE that new industries that 
 
 are being developed, there, of course, will need gas as well.
 
And the UAE with depending which set of figures, you look at perhaps the world's seventh largest gas reserves; there is a lot more gas to be 
 
 developed.
 
KINKADE: There certainly is, I mean, the Middle East is expected to become the world's second largest natural gas producer by 2050. That's according 
 
 to a report released last month by the gas exporting countries forum, but there still is much more room for growth, right? And how does that play 
 
 into the UAEs, a national drive to achieve net zero emissions by 2050?
 
MILLS: Yes, so I guess there's obviously a lower carbon fuel than oil and certainly than coal. So supplying gas to Asia in particular to replace coal 
 
 is an important part of reducing emissions. Now, it doesn't get us to net zero, it's still a carbon containing fuel but less so than coal.
 
So there really has to you know, has to be a will be a drive beyond that to develop ways of using gas to produce plastics, chemicals and so on. So 
 
 where they don't release co2 into the atmosphere, and also to use carbon capture and storage against to trap emissions and, and ensure that that gas 
 
 can be used in a way that's compatible with the UAEs 2050 NetZero carbon goal.
 
And yes, it's a big challenge. No, no, no gas producing country has achieved this gas, has certainly reduced emissions in the U.S. and 
 
 elsewhere. But getting it to be part of Net Zero is a big technological and commercial challenge.
 
KINKADE: Robin Mills, good to have you with us today. We appreciate your time. Thanks so much.
 
MILLS: Thank you.
 
KINKADE: We are going to take a quick break; we're going to have much more news in just a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Well, we now have an update in the case of Tyre Nichols, the black man who died in Memphis, Tennessee after being beaten by five police 
 
 officers. Those former officers appeared in court today wearing black face masks.
 
Well, five entered not guilty pleas to the charges including murder, assault and kidnapping. CNN's Nick Valencia joins us now with more. Nick, 
 
 the judge was saying urging the patient same this case could take some time. Take us through what happened today.
 
NICK VALENCIA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: That's right. And that's probably one of the biggest takeaways other than this not guilty plea from the officers 
 
 Lynda is that the judge caution both sides that this case could take some time. And one of the challenges that the district attorney's office faces 
 
 in this is proving that the officers knew that their actions would lead to Tyre Nichols death.
 <br>[11:40:00]
 
VALENCIA: They've been charged with second degree murder as well as assault and kidnapping. And under Tennessee State law, that second degree murder 
 
 charge the burden, excuse me is that they must prove that they acted these officers in such a way that they were reasonably certain their actions 
 
 could cause death.
 
Now after the hearing, we heard from the attorneys from some of these officers saying that they did deserve due process. In fact, the attorney 
 
 for - has been who's one of these officers charged with second degree murder, went on to say that his client was seen in the video trying to help 
 
 Tyre Nichols setting him up and that he was never seen punching him. He was asked by a reporter there outside the courthouse if his client had any 
 
 regrets that day.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOHN KEITH PERRY, ATTORNEY FOR TADARRIUS BEAN: I think at this point, he probably regrets going to Memphis police officer on that night because had 
 
 he not been he wouldn't have been called to do the job.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VALENCIA: If found guilty, these officers could face between 16 or rather 15 and 60 years in prison with that second degree murder charge. Meanwhile, 
 
 the District Attorney's Office, they're now looking into all previous and pending cases involving these charged officers that amounts to about 100 
 
 cases that they've got to look into.
 
And they are also not leaving out the possibility that there could be other charges. And one quick note Lynda, we are waiting for an additional 20 
 
 hours of additional video of Tyre Nichols arrest that day which could be released in the coming weeks. Lynda?
 
KINKADE: All right. Nick Valencia, we will continue to stay on this case. Good to have you with us. Thank you.
 
VALENCIA: Thanks, Lynda.
 
KINKADE: Well across the Atlantic, the British Home Secretary is demanding an explanation from police over their handling of the case of Nicola 
 
 Bulley. She is the 45 year old mother of two who went missing January 27th after taking her dog for a walk along the river.
 
Police are facing mounting criticism after revealing personal details about Bulley's health. And a search for her is ongoing and family urging the 
 
 public to keep its focus on finding her. Well now from CNN's Bianca Nobilo.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BIANCA NOBILO, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The mysterious disappearance of 45 year old Nicola Bulley which has gripped the UK is now provoking 
 
 outrage after the police revealed intimate details about the victim's private life.
 
Nearly three weeks after Bulley vanished the local police claimed that she had previously suffered from significant issues with alcohol, which were 
 
 brought on by her ongoing struggles with the menopause. Police, diving experts, media and internet sleuths have descended on the quiet village of 
 
 St. Michael's on Wyre on the northwest coast of England to investigate why Bulley went missing on January the 27th walking her dog alongside the 
 
 river.
 
The head of a team of underwater experts called in to investigate said that in his roughly 20 year career, he had never seen something so unusual. 
 
 Nicola left home dropped her two children off at school and was last seen walking her dog. Her phone was found on this bench, still logged in to a 
 
 work meeting. Her pet dog found wandering out of his harness.
 
REBECCA SMITH, SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE OFFICER: At the initial stages based on the information I received, I made it clear that it was my working 
 
 hypothesis at that time based with all the facts. But the main hypothesis I was working on at that time was that Nicola had gone in the river. And that 
 
 remains my main working hypothesis.
 
NOBILO (voice over): The police had been under fire for ruling out suspicious activity or third party involvement from the outset. Her partner 
 
 believes other possibilities should be seriously considered.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Personally I'm 100 percent convinced it's not the river. People don't just vanish into thin air is absolutely impossible. So 
 
 something has happened. Find out what it is.
 
NOBILO (voice over): Nearly three weeks into the investigation, police revealed that Bulley had immediately been classified as a high risk person 
 
 because there are specific vulnerabilities, clarifying those included past struggles with menopause and alcohol issues. The former victim's 
 
 commissioner called the decision to make these details public dreadful and as sexist as it comes.
 
Britain's Home Secretary is now receiving regular updates on the investigation. The family expressed their frustration in a statement. The 
 
 public focus has become distracted from finding Nikki and more about speculation and rumors into her and Paul's private life.
 
And in a final plea, the family addresses Nikki directly. Nikki we hope you're reading this and know that we love you so much and your girls want 
 
 to cuddle, we all need you home. Don't be scared. We all love you so very much. Bianca Nobilo, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: Well, a pair of Big Tech stories dominating the business world today Tesla recalling more than 360,000 vehicles because of issues with the 
 
 self-driving features. Regulators say this self-driving system may not respond properly to traffic and intersections and certain traffic signals.
 <br>[11:45:00]
 
KINKADE: And the CEO of YouTube is stepping down. Susan Wojcicki has run YouTube for nine years; the company has come under fire along with other 
 
 online platforms for allowing conspiracy theories and misinformation to spread. Well, let's bring in Paula Monica of CNN Business who's covering 
 
 all these developing stories and joining us now from New York.
 
Good to see you, Paul. So let's start first, with Tesla recording more than 360,000 cars. Of course, we have reported over for some time now, problems 
 
 with a self-driving function. What are they saying about this recall?
 
PAUL R. LA MONICA, CNN REPORTER: Yes, Tesla, you know, doing this recall, obviously, regulatory agencies in the U.S. wanting them to do that. Elon 
 
 Musk has tweeted though, suggesting that recall might be a bit of an anachronistic term for something that can be handled from what he claims 
 
 through, you know, off software updates, and that can hopefully solve the problems.
 
But there are still merits of recall of these full self-driving vehicles. Because as you pointed out, there are concerns about driving through 
 
 intersections. And I think that it probably just behooves most people, most driving experts seem to suggest that full self-driving technologies not so 
 
 perfect yet that you can really just take your hands off the wheel and nonchalantly, you know, not worry about things like traffic lights.
 
KINKADE: Yes, exactly. And of course, we're talking YouTube as well. The CEO is stepping down after almost a decade in that role. Just explain why 
 
 Paul.
 
MONICA: Yes, she says that she is ready for, you know, just new, new challenges right now. She's been not just the Head of YouTube for a long 
 
 time. She was Google parent company, Alphabet's 16th employee, the company famously was, you know, having meetings in her garage that she was renting 
 
 out to the Google co-founders back when the company was in its infancy stages.
 
So Susan Wojcicki has been there for a very long time. And this is a challenging period for YouTube, because they're not just facing concerns 
 
 from regulators, but also growing competition. TikTok is increasingly becoming a major force in online and mobile video. And that is a big 
 
 problem for the company in the field.
 
They also face challenges from Meta platforms, which own Instagram and reels as well as Snapchat. There's just a lot of competition. YouTube is 
 
 not the only place for digital video anymore.
 
KINKADE: All right, Paula Monica for us from New York. We've got more tech stories to come. But thanks so much for joining us. Ahead after the very 
 
 short break, we're going to talk AI Artificial Intelligence, or Artificial Intelligent. Astonishing conversations reveal AI in its infancy, means some 
 
 rather unpredictable responses to say the least.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
KINKADE: Well, Nigeria's president directed the central bank to re- circulate one of the old notes in the hopes of quelling the anger and protests on the streets there. CNN's Stephanie Busari has more from Lagos.
 <br>[11:50:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
STEPHANIE BUSARI, CNN SENIOR EDITOR, AFRICA (voice over): tempers fraying in the streets of Abuja. Nigerians have flocked to banks and ATMs in recent 
 
 weeks, desperate to withdraw cash amidst a cash shortage.
 
Nigeria's central bank decided last year to circulate newly designed banknotes and a deadline was set, after which old notes will no longer be 
 
 accepted as legal tender. The new notes have been in short supply however, leading to long queues and chaotic scenes across the country.
 
BUSARI (on camera): Nigeria wants to change its currency ahead of a crucial general election, but has descended into chaos, as long lines form outside 
 
 cash machines. And fights break out inside the banks as customers demand access to their own money.
 
BUSARI (voice over): Protests turned violent in Benin City and in a -- puddle. ATMs vandalized. President Muhammadu Buhari whose party is seeking re-election next week on Thursday announced lower denomination 200 Naira 
 
 notes will be put back in use for another 60 days.
 
MUHAMMADU BUHARI, NIGERIAN PRESIDENT: Further is the supply of freshness particularly to our citizens, I have given approval to the --that the old 
 
 200 Naira banknotes being released back into circulation, and that it should also be allowed to circulate as legal tender.
 
BUSARI (voice over): Shortages have led to untold hardships, particularly for those who work in a largely cash based economy and for citizens who 
 
 live in rural areas.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I'll be here since 7 a.m. and is 4.18 p.m. And I just got to my number just now. Yes. And it's been a very stressful process to 
 
 get the new Naira notes as you can see. Well, that's the daily experience of every Nigerian in the streets. If you walk around, most banks don't even 
 
 dispense.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's not been easy, I must say. It's not been easy, because it's not something we're used to. Before now you go to the ATM and 
 
 just get your money and go, but right now you have to queue for hours upon hours. And under the sun, it's not been easy at all.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's just crazy. And I you know, I've been here say like an hour now. And the line is as you can see how crazy it is.
 
BUSARI (voice over): The cash shortage in Africa's largest economy threatens to overshadow the upcoming elections, angering voters as the 
 
 country's political future hangs in a balance. Stephanie Busari, CNN, Lagos.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KINKADE: We're now to a developing story involving artificial intelligence, bots behaving badly. ChatGPT and other AI programs have truly captured our 
 
 imagination this year. But those who have engaged with the tech via Microsoft Bing have come away both startled and unsettled by some of the 
 
 bots responses.
 
One person said he was actually frightened by the interaction. Our Samantha Kelly has been one of the people testing the new service. And she also has 
 
 quite a story to tell, good to have you with us. So I understand you had the chance to start out and just having what should have been a very simple 
 
 conversation, asking the bot about activity ideas for your kids. What happened?
 
SAMANTHA KELLY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER: Yes, exactly. Yes, it was very, it was very charming and very helpful in the beginning. It listed out, you know, 
 
 priorities to help multitask activities for them. It even said maybe I should go take a walk and clear my mind, it was very helpful. But then over 
 
 time, I started to ask more questions, I started to push it a little bit more.
 
And the chatbot did not like that. It eventually called me rude and disrespectful. It shared a story about one of my colleagues, one of our 
 
 colleagues here at CNN, saying that she was on an investigation and she was murdered. It was very concerning, obviously not true.
 
Also tell - told us a tale about being in love with its founder, the technology behind being software here, Sam Altman. So there are a lot of 
 
 really strange things happening. One thing that I personally found very concerning was I asked her to write a short bio about myself. And it 
 
 provided a lot of information about my career, a little bit about my family, but it was very short on detail.
 
So it fabricated a lot of that information. And for somebody who might not know me that could read it and think that it was true, when in fact it 
 
 wasn't. And that's especially concerning when it's coming from being a search engine that's supposed to be reliable, and have factual information.
 
KINKADE: And it's interesting from what I've been reading other journalists testing this technology have had a similar experience with what you call 
 
 this Jacqueline hide persona from these bots?
 <br>[11:55:00]
 
KELLY: Right, exactly, yes, people are posting their experience online being responded and said that the longer you talk to these bots 15 
 
 questions or so more, it starts to reflect sort of the tone or become argumentative depending on sort of what the user is putting out there. But 
 
 that can be a concern, especially if you're looking for factual information.
 
It's sort of the onus is on the user to then decide whether or not whatever information they're providing is true and what you should do with that 
 
 information. And I think that is sort of what's frightening. This is sort of a real experiment that these companies are doing right now. And they 
 
 need us to test this. Companies are saying that it's a learning process. So it's basically playing in real life here.
 
KINKADE: Samantha Kelly, it certainly is a fascinating way to test new technology. Good to have you with us. Thanks for sharing your experience. 
 
 I'm Lynda Kinkade, stay with CNN. "One World" with my colleague Zain Asher is up next, have a great weekend.
 
(COMMERCIAL BRAEK)
 
END