Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Democrats Benefiting from Power of Abortion Politics; Supreme Court Hears Major Second Amendment Case; Residents on Edge Amid Tension Along Lebanese-Israeli Border; Israeli Volunteer: People of Israel are in War; Democrats Score Big Wins In Kentucky, Virginia; Ohio Votes For Abortion Rights, Legalized Weed; U.S. House Votes To Censure Rashida Tlaib Over Israel-Hamas War Comments; Israel Fighting Hamas In Heart Of Gaza City; Families Of Israeli Hostages Plead For Loved Ones' Safe Return. Aired 1-2a ET

Aired November 08, 2023 - 01:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:00:44]
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, welcome to CNN Newsroom. I'm John Vause. We're following two very big stories this hour, Israel's war with Hamas and Election Night in America. And for Democrats, there's now brief glimmers of distant hope for next year's presidential election, with results now in from off year statewide election races across the US. 
 
And it's the power of abortion politics, which is becoming increasingly clear. First to Kentucky, where Governor Andy Beshear has been reelected making him one of the few Democratic leaders in red -- predominantly Republican states, and he made abortion rights a major issue in his campaign.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANDY BESHEAR, KENTUCKY GOVERNOR: Tonight, Kentucky made a choice. A choice not to move to the right or to the left, but to move forward for every single family.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: In Mississippi see the now projects Republican governor Tate Reeves has won a second term defeating the second cousin of Elvis Presley, Democrat Brandon Presley, who said we came up a little short.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRANDON PRESLEY, MISSISIPPI DEMOCRATTIC NOMINEE FOR GOVERNOR: You people in Mississippi but on both sides of the aisle, both Republicans, Democrats and independents represent the good parts of our state. You represent a good parts of who we are. And I will always be appreciative of that. 
 
I know that you're as disappointed tonight as I am Adalet (ph) statements from said it hurts too much to laugh and I'm too old to cry, and so I understand what he mean.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Kind of sounds like Elvis. In Virginia, Democrats have taken full control of the state legislatures hanging on to the Senate and flipping the House of Delegates. Boston was not directly on the ballot but is believed to be in a strong factor in those results. 
 
In the key swing state of Ohio, voters voted a strong rebuke to Republicans trying to restrict abortion access. The right to an abortion is now enshrined in the state constitution after a ballot measure was passed. Ohio also voted to legalize recreational marijuana becoming the 24th state to do so. CNN's Kyung Lah is in Ohio has more now on the historic abortion vote.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
KYUNG LAH, CNN SENIOR U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONENT (on camera): Abortion rights will be enshrined in Ohio State constitution that is the result here in Ohio. According to CNN projections, it is the first Republican state to take such a move. 
 
And this was a hard battle fought on both sides of what's known as Issue 1, the effort to enshrine those rights in the state constitution. When CNN called the results of this election projecting the results, I want you to take a listen to this room. It is a watch party of those who supported Issue 1.
 
You can hear the cheering for yourself. Others, I actually saw a woman burst into tears. It was jubilation as those results were read. Now, the supporters of Issue 1 say that they won by trying to keep this as nonpartisan issue as possible, urging voters that this was about keeping government out of their lives. 
 
The group that was against Issue 1 said in a statement that is heartbroken but it will regroup and aim to 2024 in battleground states and in regard to those battleground states is sending shockwaves through states like Arizona where abortion rights advocates there are also trying to get such a measure on that 2024 ballot. A Republican from Arizona a consultant tells me tonight that his party should be quote, scared. Kyung Lah, CNN, Columbus, Ohio.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Standing by in San Francisco is Democratic strategist and political scientist Professor Caroline Heldman. And in Sacramento, Mike Madrid, Republican consultant and co-founder of the Lincoln Project. Good to see you both. Thanks for being up. Thanks for staying up late. 
 
CAROLINE HELDMAN, PROFESSOR, CRITICAL THEORY AND SOCIAL JUSTICE: Good to see you, John.
 
MIKE MADRID, REPUBLICAN CONSULTANT: Thanks for having us.
 
VAUSE: So for Democrats who are searching for signs of optimism ahead of next year's presidential race, they now have the re-election of the Democratic governor in deep red Kentucky. There's that ballot measure in Ohio which enshrines the right to an abortion in the Constitution. And there's also the party prize pot was legalized for recreational use in Ohio.
 <br>[01:05:00]
 
Caroline to you, it all seems kind of thin. Is that the best you got?
 
HELDMAN: Well, I would say that, you know, 85 percent of Americans support abortion under some circumstances. And when the Supreme Court overturned that basic fundamental right, they gave a gift to Democrats, and we are seeing this gift that is giving and giving. 
 
So, I think the biggest kind of signal for me is that Glenn Youngkin, the governor in Virginia, actually tried to essentially test a new messaging around this. So instead of, you know, a more compassionate messaging around abortion, so instead of six weeks, it would be 15 weeks instead of an abortion ban, it would be a restriction. 
 
And the world of was looking or the U.S. was certainly looking at him to see whether or not this would be effective. And what we've learned tonight is that even a middle ground with Republicans on abortion is not effective. It doesn't matter where abortion is on the ballot, even in conservative states. It is really a gift to Democratic candidates.
 
VAUSE: This is so true. So, Mike to you, before the ballot measure in Ohio, CNN reported abortion rights groups have been on a winning streak. Opponents hope Ohio's issue one offers a reset. Well, it didn't. It wasn't so much a reset as a reaffirmation. 
 
So why are Republicans continuing to push what is essentially a very unpopular policy onto the American public, a policy which is so unpopular, that's actually having a negative outcome on other election races across the country?
 
MADRID: Well, look, Republicans are stuck in a demographic doom loop, the only group that won in Ohio, or voters that supported this measure, measure one, were white men without college degrees, that's the largest part of the Republican base. 
 
But I do want to put this in context, while Dobbs and the overturning of abortion rights was made possible by the overturning of Roe versus Wade, this trend of college educated suburban women has been happening for about four to six years before the Dobbs decision came down. 
 
So yes, the existential nature of the threat since then has crystallized it. But this motor shift began in 2018. It continued in 2020. And it catalyzed in 2022. And you're seeing now the fourth election cycle in a row where Republicans are essentially becoming a marginal regional party as a result of it because they're seeing defections in the Republican base. 
 
This is not -- this was not -- tonight was not a high turnout youth U.S. election. This was about Republicans, particularly Republican women's showing up and voting for a pro-choice position and voting for Democrats. And that's an extremely significant change in the electorate that we haven't seen prior to the 2018 midterms.
 
VAUSE: But he said it's been going on since 2018. Isn't it time to maybe have a look at what's going wrong?
 
MADRID: yes, but we're looking at if there's any group that's the least reflective and self-aware in America at this moment history, it's the Republican Party. They're not going to change precisely because as I mentioned, they're stuck in this demographic doom loop. The only group that they are speaking to are white males, rural white males with no college degree is this blue collar working class. This is Donald Trump's base. This is the MAGA base. 
 
And unfortunately, as college educated voters leave and flee the Republican Party, as moderates leave the Republican Party, all that's left is this small core group that grows with intensity and focus on its own issues. And that limits its ability to speak beyond its own base. 
 
So, it's a chicken and egg problem that isn't likely to stop anytime soon. In fact, I think it's going to probably accelerate into this extremism. We saw that with the election of Mike Johnson, as the Speaker of the House. And I think that, again, Republicans are stuck here in this cycle that is probably going to see the party be reduced to simply a regional factional element as opposed to a national stainable party.
 
VAUSE: Well, there's new polling, which is out which is great news for anyone not called Joe Biden. Overall, Donald Trump leads Joe Biden 49 percent to 45 percent. Almost every metric is bad for Biden, voters dislike him more or like him less than Trump. Biden is blamed more than Trump for being part of the country's problem, and not the solution. 
 
Add to that, Caroline, this coalition of voters which elected Biden back in 2020 is starting to collapse in many ways is the core voters who go there in the first place, and now deserting the president. So Caroline, what is Biden doing wrong? Or do I say is Trump doing something right?
 
HELDMAN: Well, Trump is certainly doing something right, right. He's playing into the martyr complex, and it's been very effective for his base. I don't know how effective it's going to be with the general election given that swing voters don't necessarily like the 91 indictments. 
 
But you know, in that same poll, John, the news for Biden is particularly bad in swing states and the six swing states that Biden won in 2020.
 <br>[01:10:07]
 
And Trump is now leading and five of those states and he's up 10 points in Nevada. I mean, this is a pretty big shift. Certainly the economy is playing a role here. But if you look at polling, folks are concerned about Joe Biden's age. And at the end of the day, though, you have to look at history, you know, that Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama were also very low in the polls a year out. 
 
And these are, you know, almost meaningless in the sense that the election is a year away, and both Reagan and Obama handily won reelection. So anything could happen between now and then. But where the election held today, Joe Biden would be in serious trouble. 
 
VAUSE: And Mike, just a question of Joe Biden's age and perceptions about his ability to be run a second term to run for the entire second term of his presidency. 
 
MADRID: Well, look, I think that there are certainly problems that are particular to Joe Biden. But let me say in that same poll, again, generic Democrat beats Donald Trump and four of those fight four of those five swing states that are tested. And also another question related to Donald Trump was if he's convicted, and sentence to prison, Biden beats him commandingly in every one of those states. 
 
So, you've got to understand. You're a year out of this election cycle. I don't -- I'm not, you know, seeing any cause of concern or alarm for Biden at this point of the fact that while he is Joe Biden, any incumbent heading into an election usually meets their lowest point, and that's where he's at. 
 
I don't think Biden world is panicking, and I don't see any reason for them to either. I think they want to face Donald Trump. Most of the polling including that CIANA poll would suggest that that's where he stands his best chance.
 
VAUSE: And very quickly, Caroline, what -- Caroline, we're hearing that you, the Kentucky Governor who was reelected basically made a choice not to be seen on the campaign trail, or Joe Biden ran a million miles to be away from him not to be seen. 
 
That's OK, Kentucky because it's conservative, but I guess other Democrats who are running for office of making a similar decision. Have they spoken to Al Gore? Is that a bad choice at the end of the day?
 
HELDMAN: Well, it certainly doesn't help the top of the ticket, but I'm not really sure how long the coattails run anymore, certainly in modern elections, and Joe Biden is not going to be helping any Democrats on the lower part of the ticket heading into 2024.
 
VAUSE: OK. Caroline and Mike Madrid -- Caroline Heldman, Mike Madrid, thank you both for staying up late and being with us. Really appreciate your time. Thank you so much.
 
MADRID: Thanks for having me. 
 
HELDMAN: Great to see you, John.
 
VAUSE: You too. Well, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass a resolution to censure Democratic Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib for her comments criticizing the Israeli government and supporting Palestinians in Israel-Hamas war. Tlaib is the only Palestinian American in Congress for Republicans voted against the measure, but 22 fellow Democrats voted in favor of the reprimand. So they posted a video to social media protesters chanting from the river to the sea, which the Anti-Defamation League says has long been a rallying cry for those calling for the destruction of Israel.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. RASHIDA TLAIB (D) MICHIGAN: We will remember in 2024. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Before the censure vote, Tlaib gave an impassioned speech on the House floor defending her remarks. Democrats and Republicans also took to the floor in a heated debate over the sense of resolution.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TLAIB: I'm the only Palestinian American serving in Congress, Mr. Chair, and my perspective is needed here now more than ever. I will not be silenced. And I will not let you distort my words.
 
REP. DEBBIE DINGELL (D) MICHIGAN: Her voice matters. She is the only Palestinian American in the Congress. And this is a representative body. Her perspective represents many that she rep -- for -- her perspective reflects many that she represent, especially when it's not twisted.
 
REP. MAX MILLER (R) OHIO: I believe that actions have consequences. And I believe that after a long string of antisemitic remarks and hate filled rhetoric, centuries and appropriate consequence for the gentlelady from Michigan --
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Gentleman's time is expired.
 
MILLER: -- never again damn it means never again.
 
REP. KEN BUCK (R) COLORADO: To compare a modern democracy to whether repressive terrorist state is wrong. But it is also wrong for Congress to take this action at a time when we have serious issues that we face to take an action and take down the words to strike the words to censure fellow member no matter how incorrect we believe she may be is wrong. We lower ourselves when we try to take action against someone else for their words.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: So even as previously described the phrase from the river to the sea is an aspirational call for freedom, human rights and peaceful coexistence not death destruction or hate.
 <br>[01:15:07]
 
Now to Gaza where Israeli ground forces are now said to be in the heart of the biggest city in the Palestinian territories, according to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, IDF soldiers are now operating inside Gaza City, putting severe pressure on Hamas.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER (through translator): Gaza City isn't circled we are operating inside it. We are increasing pressure on Hamas every hour every day. We have killed thousands of terrorists above ground and below ground.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: As the Israeli ground offensive continues to advance the Biden administration once again, warning Israel about occupying Gaza. This comes hours after Netanyahu said Israel will have the overall security responsibility in Gaza once the war is over. But Israel's defense minister says there are only two certainties right now about who will run Gaza once Hamas is destroyed. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO LCIP)
 
YOAV GALLANT, ISRAELI DEFENSE MINISTER (through translator): I can tell you who will not go over, it will not be Hamas and it will not be Israel. Everything else is a possibility. And I want to say one more thing. At the end of this conflict, there will be new Hamas in Gaza.
 
(END VIDEO LCIP)
 
VAUSE: Senior aide to the Israeli prime minister is denying there any plans for a long term occupation of Gaza. Here's Mark Regev speaking to CNN.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARK REGEV, SENIOR ADVISER TO ISRAEL PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU: We're not talking about a any sort of ongoing occupation of the Gaza Strip. Once again, we want the Gazans to rule themselves and we think there'll be an international effort for that.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: More now let's go live to London, journalist Elliott Gotkine with us. So Elliott, I guess the question is, Israel doesn't want to do the job of being the occupiers of Gaza. Egypt doesn't want to do the job of being the occupiers of Gaza. The Palestinian Authority doesn't want the job. They said they're not capable of it right now, who's going to do it?
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST: Well, I don't think anyone really knows exactly what's going to happen the day after this war ends, John. Netanyahu articulated a particular thought in terms of Israel, in his words, having overall security responsibility for the Gaza Strip after this war ends. But 
 
I think he was deliberately vague in those words, although there are some foreign ministers in the governing coalition who perhaps would advocate for re occupying the Gaza Strip, which Israel did occupy on the ground, at least from 1967 until 2005. But I don't think Netanyahu or the government as a whole has any
 
 intention of doing so. Now, you mentioned the Palestinian Authority. Let's not forget that Muhammad Abbas, the head of the Palestinian Authority, which administers parts of the Israeli occupied West Bank lacks legitimacy there. He's in the 19th year of a four-year term. 
 
And you can hardly see him, you know, metaphorically writing in the slipstream of Israeli tanks into the Gaza Strip to administer the Palestinians there unless and he's said this himself to Antony Blinken, the U.S. Secretary of State, when he was over the weekend, unless there is, you know, a major steps towards a two-state solution with East Jerusalem as the capital of an independent Palestinian state. 
 
And since that seems fanciful, at this point, it's hard to see the Palestinian Authority going into the Gaza Strip, at least in the short term. And that though, of course, would be the most convenient solution, I suppose, from the Israeli and the U.S. perspective and the perspective of many others in the international community. 
 
But it's very hard to see that happening. And of course, all of this discussion is based on the assumption that Israel will succeed in its objective of destroying Hamas militarily, so it can never again visit the horrors that it did on October the seventh on Israel, and so that it's no longer in charge of the Gaza Strip. 
 
And then on top of that, let's not forget the 240 hostages that Hamas abducted from Israel and is still languishing inside the Gaza Strip more than a month later. Israel has said there can be no ceasefire until they're freed and presumably, there can be no discussion about what happens after this war ends or it won't actually end until those hostages are returned. John.
 
VAUSE: Elliott, we appreciate the update. Thank you. Elliott Gotkine there in London. 
 
Well, still to come here on CNN, it's been the month from health of families of Hamas hostages in Israel, fighting to bring their loved ones safely home, refusing to give up hope, more that in a moment.
 
(COMMERCIAL RBEAK)
 <br>[01:23:03]
 
VAUSE: Welcome back, it's been a grim month in Israel in many ways the nation still in grief and shock. Still mourning lives lost and holding on to hope for those who were taken by Hamas militants on that day October 7. 
 
Israel's response has been swift and devastating. The IDF says they've destroyed 14,000 Hamas targets in the past few weeks. But that success comes with a massive civilian death toll. 
 
The Palestinian Health Ministry in the West Bank city of Ramallah, which gets its information from Gaza, which is controlled by Hamas says more than 10,000 people have been killed since the war began with women, children and the elderly making up more than 70 percent of casualties. The UN's human rights commissioner says the situation in Gaza is incredibly disturbing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLKER TURK, U.N. HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS: It's one month anniversary of this incredible escalation of violence that we have seen. I'm of course from a human rights perspective extremely worried about the situation about what is happening and it is really important that a solution is found to end the violence and to get out of this horrible, horrible humanitarian and human rights situation for what's happening in Gaza.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: A month it's way too soon to see it enter the pain and the heartache for many of the families of the hostages inside Israel. They continue to hold vigils. They keep their loved ones in the spotlight and trying to ensure the Israeli government will not ignore their pleas to bring their captors home. Gustavo Valdes has our report.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GUSTAVO VALDES, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): A moment of silence marks a month since Hamas brutally killed at least 1,400 people and took an estimated 240 hostages.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm slowly painfully alone in Gaza. No one deserves it. 
 
VALDES: Avda Adar is talking about her grandmother, 85-year-old Yafta Adar, who was taken by Hamas.
 <br>[01:25:00] 
 
Her cousin Tamir Adar was also taken from a kibbutz near the border with Gaza. 
 
AVDA ADAR, GRANDDAUGTHER OF HOSTAGE YAFTA ADAR: A father of two young children.
 
VALDES: Adar is part of a group of relatives of hostages who, from a plaza in Tel Aviv, are making sure people don't forget.
 
ADAR: I need to have hope I need to have a reason to wake up in the morning and to believe they will come back home.
 
VALDES: The site is now a shrine for the hostages with different artistic representations. For those who are not here sitting next to their relatives, missing the laughter of their children, and making clear that for them, the release of the hostages was more than anything else in the world. 
 
LEA YANAI, SISTER OF HOSTAGE STELLA MORAN YANAI: She's out there and they are out there. Every minute is so long. VALDES: Lea Yanai says her sister Stella Moran was selling her jewelry
 
 at the Nova festival from where she was taken. She and her brother Leon said that while their family will always advocate for peace, they want to know that everything is being done to have their sister back. 
 
LEON YANAI, BORTHER OF HOSTAGE STELLA MORAN YANAI: What I know is that I'm trying to make them demanding that our government to do whatever she can to bring them back, by all means to take action, to make a negotiation to do something. 
 
VALDES: With the world being overwhelmed by the horrific pictures from Gaza, they are aware that public opinion around the world might not be in their favor because of the rising civilian death toll.
 
ERAN MARGALIT, FRIEND OF THE MURDER FAMILY: You know, being here and saying, yes, we should free the Gazan civilians from Hamas. I know it's true. I know it's true. I believe it.
 
VALDES: Eran Margalit has friends who were killed and taken hostage by Hamas, and feels that something radical needs to be done to prevent a future attack.
 
MARGALIT: We need to end this Hamas thing. You know, when ISIS went all over Europe, no one stays silent.
 
VALDES: Adva Adar wants her grandmother back, like everyone here, she's not ready to give up. 
 
ADAR: They have to to know that we fight for them.
 
MARGALIT: We let them go once we will not let them go again.
 
VALDES: Gustavo Valdes. CNN, Tel Aviv.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: When we come back here on CNN, who can and cannot own a gun will be before the Supreme Court soon. There are indications about how it may rule. This is a major Second Amendment case. All of all the domestic violence restraining orders, more on that when we come back.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[01:30:42] 
 
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: It was off-year election night in America. And now here's an update on some key results. 
 
CNN projecting Democrats will take full control of the Virginia legislature, ending Governor Glenn Youngkin's hopes for Republican majority in both chambers. 
 
In deeply conservative Mississippi, CNN projects Republican Governor Tate Reeves has been reelected, beating Democrat challenger Brandon Presley, second cousin of the late Elvis Presley, the rock star. And another red state, Kentucky, Democrat Governor Andy Beshear has
 
 also been reelected defeating anti-abortion Republican challenger Daniel Cameron, the state's attorney general, who'd been endorsed by the former president Donald Trump. 
 
And in Ohio, a bellwether state which Trump carried in both the 2016 and 2020 presidential races, voters approved a measure which will enshrine the right to an abortion in the state's constitution, continuing a winning trend for abortion rights around the country since the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe v Wade last year. 
 
And it's become one of the big takeaways from these elections, abortion rights matter to many voters, especially in crucial swing states. 
 
CNN's Jeff Zeleny explains. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEFF ZELENY, CNN CHIEF U.S. NATIONAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: For the next year, as the Republicans try to win the Senate, keep their narrow majority in the House, and indeed win back the White House, abortion will be front and center in their strategy. 
 
The lessons of Tuesday night's elections in Virginia, in Ohio, and in Kentucky certainly serve as a reminder that abortion is still a very potent issue and now it has become a motivating factor for Democrats. 
 
Of course, since the Supreme Court overturned Roe versus Wade with the Dobbs decision a little more than a year ago, there are so many examples now, election after election, where Republicans are largely on the losing side of this argument.
 
We are going to see much of this discussion at a Republican presidential debate here in Miami on Wednesday. There has been a difference of viewpoint to some degree about the way forward on abortion. 
 
Nikki Haley, for example, the former South Carolina governor has tried to strike somewhat of a middle ground. Now, Donald Trump, for his part, will not be participating in the debate. But he has tried to not dwell on abortion. He believes it is a losing issue in the words that he has spoken to some of his advisers. 
 
But look for Democrats to try and turn this to their advantage over the next year. In fact, it could be one of their big motivating factors. So there is no doubt as Republicans try to win control of the Senate, hold their narrow majority in the House, and win back the White House, abortion will be front and center. 
 
Jeff Zeleny, CNN -- Miami. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Well, for more on these off-year election results, Michael Genovese joins us. He's a political analyst and president of the Global Policy Institute at Loyola Marymount University. 
 
Good to see you, Mike. It's been a while.
 
MICHAEL GENOVESE, POLITICAL ANALYST: Good to be here. VAUSE: So in Ohio, which overwhelmingly voted Trump in 2020, voted to approve this ballot measures to enshrine abortion right into the constitution. 
 
Along with what we're seeing Kentucky, very conservative Kentucky, the Democrat governor winning a second term. He campaigned against an opponent who is supporting a sweeping ban on abortion. He took the fight to him, he didn't shy away from it. 
 
So the issue of abortion rights motivated voters not just in these elections, but last year's midterms. Any reason to believe it will be a factor in 2024? 
 
GENOVESE: That was a big test especially for Democrats who are hoping, in fact counting on abortion having legs, being a sustainable issue that will bring in voters into the polls and vote Democratic. 
 
So the fact that Ohio, basically a Trump state, would so strongly support not just the abortion rights, but also recreational marijuana. Those are Democratic issues. And so Ohio really did come through for the Democrats. And it surprised a lot of people by the margin of victory. 
 
VAUSE: Yes, before there was Florida, there was always, as Ohio votes, so does the nation. So it is an important state. 
 
With regards to the issue of abortion rights, it seems potent enough to help Democrats win, but not potent enough to actually swing an election result on its own. Why is that the case? 
 <br>[01:34:53]
 
GENOVESE: You know, I think that as soon as roe was overturned, the Democrats mobilized especially the women vote. And the key here is the suburban woman voter. That vote is going to determine the outcome in 2024 and determine a lot of state outcomes. 
 
So that the Democrats could draw suburban women in is an incredibly important sign for them. That is the swing vote. And if the Democrats can control that in the key states that are going to be very contested and very tight, they have a really good chance. And the Democrats are counting on abortion being on the ballot.
 
VAUSE: Here's a little more now from Kentucky's Governor-Elect, Democrat Andy Beshear. Here he is.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOVERNOR ANDY BESHEAR (D-KY): This was our victory. It was a victory that sends a loud, clear message, a message that candidates should run for something and not against someone. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: He didn't just run for something, he ran away from the U.S. President, who made multiple attempts to try and be seen with him publicly campaigning with him, he just refused any proposed by the White House to be seen with Joe Biden during this campaign. 
 
I guess in a conservative state like Kentucky, that's a good move. But that's something which is happening nationwide with Joe Biden and Democrats. So why is that and how worried should Joe Biden be if that continues? 
 
GENOVESE: You're right, John, it's not a surprise that in a conservative red state like Kentucky, a blue governor would try to run away from the incumbent president. Beyond that and CNN's polling was very, very revealing from today, Joe Biden is in trouble, neck and neck against Donald Trump. 
 
And so at the very top of the ticket, the Democrats have a candidate who's not very popular, running against another candidate, presumably Donald Trump, who is just about as unpopular. 
 
And so the question is, what other issues will come into play? Abortion is the big one right now. But there are all kinds of questions. Young voters, Hispanic voters, African-American voters, are they going to sit on the fence? Will they not show up? They need to be part of the Biden coalition if he's going to win. 
 
And the biggest question though, and it was not answered fully today, but we got a very good indication. And that is that suburban women are going to go Democratic. 
 
VAUSE: You mentioned the poll numbers, and they are interesting, because right now Donald Trump, facing 92 criminal felony charges, criminal charges, has a slightly better perception than Joe Biden. 
 
Polling shows that 61 percent say Biden is more part of the country's problems than a solution; 57 percent say the same thing about Trump. And just to explain that away is just sort of bad or ineffective messaging from the Biden campaign and the White House seems kind of just too easy and into simplistic. What else is happening here? 
 
GENOVESE:  There is always a lag time between what's actually going on on the ground and voter perceptions of what's going on. So voters today in America believe that the economy is in bad shape. And yet, all the indicators are that it's in good shape. 
 
So here's what social science might read into that. Political scientists have long said that if you think about a presidential term, think of it as a U shape. You start high in popularity, you go down, and then once you get into campaign mode again, it goes up again. 
 
Biden is counting on that. He's counting on that he's number one coming out of the down period. And number two, the economy is going to boost him as it gets closer to election time. We're a year away, so we have a lot of things that can happen. 
 
VAUSE: Michael, thanks so much for being with us. Michael Genovese in Los Angeles, good to see you, sir. 
 
GENOVESE: Thank you, John. 
 
VAUSE: The U.S. federal law right now (INAUDIBLE) restraining orders for domestic violence prohibits gun ownership. But now, that law is being challenged by a man in Texas and oral arguments are now before the Supreme Court. And it seems the court is leaning in favor of upholding that law. 
 
More details now from Jen Sullivan. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JEN SULLIVAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Outside the Supreme Court Tuesday advocates for domestic violence victims demanding protection from abusers. One woman sharing her personal story with the crowd. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The only person the gun was used on was me. 
 
SULLIVAN: Inside the high court, the justices hearing roughly 100 minutes of arguments on the Biden administration's appeal of a ruling striking down a federal law that bans people with protective orders against them from owning a gun. 
 
ELIZABETH PRELOGAR, U.S. SOLICITOR GENERAL: Guns and domestic abuse are a deadly combination. 
 
SULLIVAN: The challenge to the law was brought by Zackey Rahimi of Texas. He's currently in jail for other gun-related charges. But in 2020 a restraining order was issued against him following a violent altercation with his then-girlfriend. Because of that restraining order, he is banned from owning a gun. 
 
JAMES WRIGHT, FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER IN AMARILLO, TEXAS: It is possible that it would be unconstitutional to deny people the right to purchase a firearm from a licensed dealer. 
 <br>[01:39:50]
 
SULLIVAN: Lawyers arguing in support of the law says a woman is five times more likely to die from a domestic abuse situation if a gun is involved. 
 
In 1994, Congress passed a measure to ensure domestic violence victims could be protected from their abusers under federal laws. Rahimi's lawyers says that violates his Second Amendment rights to bear arms.
 
JOAN BISKUPIC, CNN SENIOR SUPREME COURT ANALYST: Domestic violence was not even an issue, you know, two centuries ago. 
 
SULLIVAN: The future of the law now in the hands of the nine justices. 
 
I'm Jen Sullivan, reporting. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) VAUSE: Congressional Republicans appear no closer to avoiding a government shutdown with just days now until funding runs dry. Republicans emerged from a meeting on Tuesday with apparently no clear strategy. But new House Speaker Mike Johnson says he will release a funding plan in the coming days. 
 
A number of ideas have been floated, including a short-term spending bill through January 19. But any measure would have to receive support of the Democratically-controlled senate and the Democratically- controlled White House. 
 
Coming up here on CNN, a Lebanese family falls victim to the rising tensions on the Israeli-Lebanese border. Hear from the residents on edge as the border becomes a flash point once again.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back. 
 
The U.S. says coalition forces in Iraq have been targeted again in a series of drone strikes on Monday and Tuesday. A U.S. official says the attacks occurred at the Irbil airbase in northern Iraq. One drone was shot down, two others failed to detonate. No casualties or damage have been reported. 
 
There's now been at least 40 such attacks on U.S. forces in Iraq and Syria in less almost three weeks by suspected Iranian-backed militias. 
 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has warned the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah not to enter the war warning it will be the biggest mistake of their lives. 
 
CNN's Ben Wedeman shows us from the southern Lebanese city of Tyre, residents near the border are now caught between expecting the worst and trying to live their lives as usual. 
 <br>[01:44:55]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: A family, a village is in mourning. Samira Ayoub and her three granddaughters Layan 10, Taleen 12, and Remas 14 were killed in an Israeli drone strike on their car Sunday afternoon near the border with Israel. Their uncle, Samir, was in the car in front of them. 
 
"Their mother was screaming," he recalls. "I want my children, where are my children?" As she watched her children burning inside the car. 
 
The Israeli military told CNN the vehicle was a, quote, "suspected transport for terrorists", adding they are looking into claims there were civilians in the vehicle. Clearly, there were only civilians in the vehicle. 
 
Every day, the border area is rocked by incoming and outgoing fire, enough to keep the area on edge, but not enough yet, to set off a full-blown war. 
 
The ancient city of Tyre lie just 20 kilometers or around 13 miles north of the frontier. Pulling in his nets, Deep says now is not the time to take risks. 
 
"Us fishermen aren't going far out to sea," he tells me. "We stay close to shore just in case something happens." 
 
The normally bustling port, the heart of Tyre is subdued. 
 
"Usually, this place is full of people," Mohammed (INAUDIBLE) fisherman says. "No one is going out, everyone is staying home."
 
Elias' family has been making fishing boats for generations. He lived through all Lebanon's wars and doesn't want to see another one.
 
"Everyone is scared," he says. "Many people have gone elsewhere. Who wants to stay here and be bombed?" 
 
Until or unless that happens, the fishermen mend their nets. Life must go on. 
 
Ben Wedeman, CNN -- Tyre, south Lebanon. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: In a moment, we'll return to Israel, a country at war where there's been a national call up of volunteers, to try and help. 
 
More on that in a moment. 
 <br>[01:47:19]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
VAUSE: Welcome back. 
 
Republicans in Congress have publicly supported the Israeli government opposition to a ceasefire or humanitarian pause in the fighting in Gaza. On Tuesday lawmakers also welcomed some family members of hostages on the one-month anniversary of the Hamas attacks. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. STEVE SCALISE (R-LA): This is not a time to be talking about ceasefires, pauses. Hamas gave that up on the 7th when they went into village and slaughtered people. When they attacked music festivals, peaceful music festivals. Mowing down people, taking more hostages including American citizens too. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Hundreds of Palestinians in Gaza have made a dash for the north to the south. Many on foot, others taking advantage of a corridor which was opened by the IDF. One of Gaza's primary highways was open for four hours. Many people carried little to nothing, some waved white flags, they held government IDs, as they moved along hoping not to be killed as they reach their destinations. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I would like to go to the south. I don't know how that can happen. Some people are saying they're checking IDs. We want a safe passage because I have little children with me and an old woman who is disabled. We don't know what will happen to us. 
 
We asked the government and the countries to create a safe passage for us to enter. I will try my luck now. I don't know if I will be alive or dead. Will they send me back or arrest me? Only God knows. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: They told me I should make the ID clear to be safe. I came from (INAUDIBLE) we walked a lot. A lot. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
VAUSE: Away from the frontlines, volunteers are stepping up for duty in Israel by flipping burgers, chopping onions, or providing free meals, and also a distraction for grief-stricken volunteers who've lost family members to Hamas on that October 7th attack. 
 
CNN's Nic Robertson has our report. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: A few miles from the front lawns soldiers relax, enjoy free food -- and the support of their country. 
 
REL NADEL, RESTAURANT OWNER: It's like everybody are involved, ok. People of Israel are in war, everybody wants and needs to contribute.
 
ROBERTSON: An army vet turned restauranteur Rel Nadel stepped up immediately, cooking burgers. 
 
NADEL: In the second day of war we had 1,000 soldiers. Right now, we deliver around 20,000.
 
ROBERTSON: And the soldiers they just show up here and they -- yes. 
 
NADEL: Yes.
 
People from coming all over the area. 
 
ROBERTSON: It feels relaxed, and anywhere else in might be. But so close to war, its therapy, and not just for the troops. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Continue to make us a good place to live here. 
 
ROBERTSON: It's Judi Shrem's (ph) first day volunteering, chopping onions for burgers. His only child, Liam, 28 years old murdered by Hamas at the music festival. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They start to shoot, nobody stay in there. We are good friends. ROBERTSON: It's not just food that volunteers are stepping up to help
 
 out with. All across the country People are doing what they can to support the soldiers, and the civilians. 
 
So you're building resiliency? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We build resiliency. Make sure that we are -- our mutual responsibility is in (INAUDIBLE). 
 
ROBERTSON: Roni Flamer (ph) has thousands of volunteers working for him. 
 
This is the heart of the operation? 
 <br>[01:54:53]
 
RONI FLAMER, VOLUNTEER: This is the heart of the operation. So it's starting to be hard, and that's why we need to every day to rebuild this (INAUDIBLE).
 
ROBERTSON: In this room, one of dozens like it across the country, volunteers working 18-hour shifts, rescuing families from frontlines, finding them places to live. 
 
SEAN ETINGER, VOLUNTEER: It helps me keep busy, so, you know, that the head doesn't get stuck on the war and all the atrocities that happened and keep happening. 
 
ROBERTSON: Like everyone here, Sean Etinger, a 21-year-old student sees the suffering on the other side too. 
 
ETINGER: I do want for it to end, you know, completely. 
 
ROBERTSON: Flamer, a third-generation Holocaust survivor, fought in the last incursion, wants to build back stronger. 
 
FLAMER: We seek for peace, so the only thing we know how to do is to help, is to rebuild. We are going to bring 1 million people who live on the Gaza border. 
 
ROBERTSON: For Judi Shrem who lost his son Liam, that building back has only just begun. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My son, he likes very much the life. (INAUDIBLE) Tell us continue the life, good life and we wait for him.
 
ROBERTSON: Nic Robertson, CNN -- Gilat, Israel. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
VAUSE: Finally this hour, a call from the kremlin for humanitarian pauses in Israel's Gaza offensive. Spokesperson Dmitry Peskov expressed concern over the catastrophic humanitarian situation. 
 
This is coming from Russia -- the same country which has waged an indiscriminate, brutal campaign in Ukraine, targeting women and children, civilian infrastructure, and has broken its promises to hold humanitarian pauses throughout the past 18 months and longer. Russian President Vladimir Putin has publicly sided with Hamas in its war with Israel.
 
Just for the record. 
 
Thank you for watching. I'm John Vause.
 
CNN NEWSROOM continues with my friend and colleague Rosemary Church, see you back here on Friday. 
 <br>[01:56:57]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)