Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Brazilian Police Clear Protesters After Takeover of Government Buildings; Biden Visits the Southern Border for the First Time as President; Biden Lands in Mexico City to Discuss Immigration; NFL Teams, Fans Honor Damar Hamlin as Bills Resume Play; Prince Harry Defends Tell-All Memoir in New TV Interviews; California to Request Emergency Declaration from White House Due to Weather; New York's Governor Calls for Binding Arbitration between Nurses Union and Hospital; Giuliani: What Happened to America's Mayor. Aired 8-9p ET

Aired January 08, 2023 - 20:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[20:00:00]
 
WALLACE: And Hugh Jackman any time you want on HBO Max. And please join us here on CNN next Sunday night when I'll sit down with pop culture guru Andy Cohen and the Barefoot Contessa herself, Ina Garten. Until then thank you for watching. Good night. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN HOST: Prince Harry unveils new revelations ahead of this week's publication of his memoir, "Spare." 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ROYAL CORRESPONDENT: He talks about his private life and how, you know, that should be private and he said that any conversation we do have in the future with the other parts of the family should remain private. 
 
BROWN: The Buffalo Bills win in their emotional return to the field. Hospitalized teammate Damar Hamlin tweeting play-by-play reactions. 
 
JOSH ALLEN, BUFFALO BILLS QUARTERBACK: Just wanted to come out and play free, play loose, play for him. And obviously the first kickoff you couldn't have scripted any better. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BROWN: I'm Pamela Brown in Washington. You are live in the CNN NEWSROOM. 
 
Tonight, election deniers in Brazil break down the barricades and take over the heart of the country's government, the Congress, the Supreme Court and the presidential palace. And now a senior government official vows to punish those involved, saying, quote, "I'm in the field walking on the streets and personally commanding the security forces, fulfilling the mission I received from the president of the republic. Nobody will go unpunished. The democratic rule of law will not be walled up by criminals." CNN's Rafael Romo joins us now. So, Rafael, what are we hearing now
 
 hours after this chaos? All these buildings, they have now been retaken by government forces and cleared of protesters. What happens next? 
 
RAFAEL ROMO, CNN SENIOR LATIN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: They have finally been cleared, Pamela. And I have an update for you. Former President Jair Bolsonaro, who left office a little more than a week ago, finally broke his silence in the last hour on his official Twitter account. He said that peaceful demonstrations are part of democracy but invasions of public buildings are illegal. He also said that he always respected the constitution and the rule of law during his presidency. 
 
And finally, he railed against his political rival, current president Lula da Silva saying that he's making accusations without evidence. And as you said, Brazilian authorities have confirmed the arrests of 170 people. They now say they have retaken control of all the buildings for all three branches of governments. 
 
As to the answer to what happens next question, well, that question remains unanswered, Pamela. It has to do with the fact that the buildings were so badly vandalized that it's going to take weeks if not months to repair the damage and make them operational again. It also has to do with the fact that President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva has only been in power for a week and he was barely beginning the process of getting his new government up and running. 
 
And it also has to do with the fact that what happened today shows that Brazil is clearly a deeply divided and polarized country. It was clear the police were not ready by any means for thousands of protesters. One of them was able, imagine this, Pam, to get inside the leader of the Brazilian congress's office. Another one was pictured with a -- the wooden top of the desk belonging to a Supreme Court justice, and then a different group apparently tried to set the carpet of the congressional floor on fire, which activated the sprinkler system, flooding the entire area. 
 
For those who are not very familiar with the situation in Brazil, let's remind our viewers that there was an election in October and that then President Jair Bolsonaro, the loser, never admitted even to this point, Pamela, that he lost. Back to you. 
 
BROWN: All right, Rafael Romo, thank you so much. 
 
So was today Brazil's January 6th moment? The parallels, they are striking. I want to bring in Brian Winter, Latin America political analyst and editor-in-chief at "America's Quarterly." 
 
So, Brian, there was a peaceful transfer of power just a week ago as President Lula was inaugurated. But this protest has been brewing for weeks. Two days before the inauguration Bolsonaro left Brazil for Florida, telling CNN, Brazil, I'll be back soon. Do you think he expected that his supporters would turn to violence as election lies were spreading, that he really was the culprit for? 
 
BRIAN WINTER, LATIN AMERICA POLITICAL ANALYST: Look, I think that those of us who follow Brazil, people who live in Brazil, suspected for months that this was a possibility. In the end the Brazilian January 6th came two days later. It came on January 8th. But except for that small difference there were so many similarities here. This was a crowd whipped into a frenzy by a leader who refused to accept an election result. That crowd decided to take matters into their own hands to try to force an insurrection or a coup. And they failed. But the damage to institutions and democracy remains. 
 <br>[20:05:08]
 
BROWN: Yes. It's just striking to see that happening there after what happened in the U.S. two years ago, a little over two years ago. Bolsonaro earned the nickname the "Trump of the Tropics" while in office. He's now in Florida, and now the "Washington Post" has reported that his son has met with close allies of the former U.S. president like Steve Bannon and Jason Miller. What do you make of that? 
 
WINTER: Well, it's no coincidence that we've seen so many incidents over the last four or five years that replicate things that have happened here in the United States. I'm an American political analyst who follows Brazil for a living, and the sensation has often been one of watching my own country on a two-year tape delay. And that was a bit what we saw today. And it's no coincidence because they're some of the same ideas and they're some of the same people. 
 
Steve Bannon, whom you've mentioned, has consistently been in contact with the Bolsonaro family over the years. I think there are important differences between Brazil and the United States, of course. One of them the fact that while the armed forces of the United States were always in line with the Constitution, it's not as clear that that is the case in Brazil. It's definitely something to watch in coming days. But again, there are just so many similarities. And it's no accident. 
 
BROWN: Yes. No accident. And once again we're seeing this play out where you had someone in a position of power with a lot of followers telling a lie, telling a lie repeatedly, and here you go. The former president, Bolsonaro, who also tweeted a short time ago denouncing these protests, we should note that. What do you make of that? Is he trying to avoid accountability? We have the tweet right here up on the screen. 
 
WINTER: Yes. I think he is simultaneously -- he, ex-President Bolsonaro, is trying to have it both ways a little bit. In that tweet he compares what the protesters did with protests led by the left in recent years. That's absurd. Sorry for the lack of diplomacy. But the scenes that we saw in Brazil today were unlike any that occurred at any point in the country's history. On the other hand President Bolsonaro knows that he like former President Trump may be facing legal jeopardy in the next couple of months and is trying to emphasize this idea. His contention that he has always respected the constitution and that he did not encourage today's failed insurrection in any meaningful way. 
 
BROWN: Brian Winter, thank you so much for coming on to provide your analysis on this unfolding situation there in Brazil. Well, soon President Biden will arrive in Mexico City, and it comes
 
 after a quick visit to El Paso and the southern border. While there he met with officials to evaluate the state of U.S. Border enforcement operations. He toured a migrant aid center and visited a bridge spanning the border. What he didn't see, though, are the thousands of migrants who are living on the streets in El Paso desperate to cross into the United States. 
 
Here's CNN's Rosa Flores. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROSA FLORES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: I'm in the Second Ward in downtown El Paso. This is a church. And you can see that there are hundreds of migrants who are still living on the streets. They have been living on the streets for weeks. That's why you see these piles of blankets. These blankets that you see here, this is what mothers use to block the wind. All of the clothing and the items that you see here, most of them are donated from Good Samaritans from the El Paso area. 
 
You can also see that there's lines for everything. There's lines for food. Migrants are getting in line for water. They get in line for toys for their kids. This is the reality on the ground right now. What we know that President Biden has done is he's gone to the Bridge of the Americas. We have video of that. But from talking to advocates there's really nothing to see when it comes to the migrant crisis there. 
 
What he will see of course is the enforcement side, what CBP has there. Some of the tools that they use for the traffic of cars, and inspections and in such. But a lot of the advocates found out that I've been talking about. The question is, if the president doesn't come here to see the actual reality of what is happening in the streets of El Paso, will he actually leave the border with a clear picture of what is happening here? 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
BROWN: That was CNN's Rosa Flores in El Paso. CNN's senior White House correspondent MJ Lee is in Mexico City. So, M.J., the administration is now responding to the criticism of Biden and how the visit unfolded. 
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, that's right. First of all, we are about to see President Biden land here in Mexico City any minute now. So we'll let you know if that happens in the next few moments. 
 <br>[20:10:01]
 
But, yes, this visit comes after he made a brief stop earlier today in El Paso, Texas. And of course that visit came after a growing outcry from critics, particularly Republican lawmakers, for the president to go to the U.S. southern border to see with his own eyes the growing number of migrants that had been trekking to the U.S. southern border. But it is really notable what President Biden didn't end up seeing as Rosa got to in her piece there. 
 
We know that he spent some time with border enforcement officials sort of touring the situation there. We know he met with local elected officials, but he really didn't get an opportunity to spend time with and see with his own eyes the migrants who, as Rosa has reported on for weeks, have been spending a lot of time outside sort of waiting to figure out what the fate of their future is. And a senior administration official, when I asked them, so why didn't he get to see any migrants at this migrant respite center that he visited, they said that it was purely coincidental, that there just happened to be no migrants at the center when the president was visiting. 
 
Now, we do know that this visit comes at a time when border crossings had dropped drastically in the El Paso area, but I still think it's really notable that given that the trip was in part in response to, it seemed, the criticism that the president hadn't gotten to see all of this with his own eyes he ultimately didn't appear to get to experience that and really talk to and meet with any of the migrants. 
 
Now, just sort of in the bigger picture, too, when we talk about the politics of immigration, this entire visit today to the Texas border city really highlights just what an intractable problem this is for the president with no easy solutions. This is a White House that is trying to balance both trying to seem strong on the border but also trying to show that it is treating all of this with a humane approach. 
 
Of course this week it got a lot of criticism for not taking a humane approach because a lot of advocates said essentially expanding Title 42 is not the way to do that. So all of this is going to come up and is going to be at the forefront when the president meets with the Mexican leader, Canadian leader during the next 48 hours when he is in Mexico City. Immigration is just going to be such an important topic when he does this visit here -- Pam. 
 
BROWN: All right. MJ Lee in Mexico City. Thanks so much. 
 
And much more ahead for you tonight including strong words from Prince Harry, who says his family has shown absolutely no willingness to reconcile. We're going to talk about it. But next, from one coast to the other, football fans everywhere honoring Damar Hamlin today. No group more than his own team, the Buffalo Bills. 
 
And later, it's the dogs and the frogs. Tomorrow night who will win college football's national title? We have a preview. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:17:06]
 
BROWN: A source tonight telling CNN that Damar Hamlin is expected to be released from the hospital in the next few days. It is some very welcome news after the Bills set foot on the field today for the first time since Hamlin collapsed during a game from a cardiac arrest. There were tributes to him on the field and in the stands and Hamlin cheering them on from his hospital bed. This was a game that felt much bigger than just a game, and that was
 
 evident inside that stadium tunnel before kickoff. Here is what Bills quarterback Josh Allen told his team before they took the field. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALLEN: I always say, don't play for the name on the back, you play for the name on the front. Pretty special we play for that (EXPLETIVE DELETED) number on our front, too. All right? Let's go get it done. One, two, three. One, two, three. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: CNN's Coy Wire joins us now. 
 
Coy, that news that Damar Hamlin is leaving the hospital soon, I mean, that is exactly what Bills fans and teammates, what we all wanted to hear tonight, right? 
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Yes, this is the glimmer of hope that we've all needed as the world has watched this story, has been inspired by this story, and this game today truly was special, Pamela. It was no longer just a game against division rivals, Patriots, with playoff implications. This was a celebration of life as Bills head coach Sean McDermott described it. Buffalo's first game since number 3 Damar Hamlin suffered cardiac arrest on the field earlier this week, and as players ran out of the tunnel, the power of 3 was everywhere. 
 
Players holding the flags, wearing patches. Fans holding handcrafted signs. And it was quite the emotional moment when Damar's image popped up on the jumbotron. Powerful moment as well when the medical workers and training staff who pounced in with poise and precision to save Damar's life were honored, getting an ovation as loud as I've ever heard at a sporting event. Then on the opening play of the game goosebumps. 
 
Here's what happened on the Bills' first play since the tragic injury as told by Bills play-by-play announcer Chris Brown. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRIS BROWN, BUFFALO BILLS ANNOUNCER: Going to be short. Fielded at the fourth by Hines. Coming straight up the middle to the 20. Cuts it back to the 25. He's got an alley down the right sideline to the 40, 50, down to the 40. 35. 30. 20. 15, 10, 5, touchdown. Nyheim Hines. 96 yards. Run, run as fast as you can, you're not catching Hines. He's your end zone man. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: Goosebumps. Nyheim Hines taking the kickoff back with a touchdown. It had been three years and three months since the Bills had last done that. Hamlin number 3 watching from the hospital tweeting, "God behind all this. No coincidence." But that wasn't all. Nyheim Hines would return another kickoff for a touchdown for his second of the game. Something that had not been done since 2010 in, you guessed it, week number three. 
 <br>[20:20:02]
 
Bills will go on to win 35-23. Next stop playoffs. Here's Bills star quarterback Josh Allen with his reaction to that movie script-like touchdown on the opening play of the game. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALLEN: You want the truth, it was spiritual. It really was. Bone- chilling. Like it was special. The whole way I think the nation came together and supported Damar. And, you know, we've had a lot of talks that maybe we wouldn't have had without something like this happening. And I was just told by Kevin Curran it's been three years and three months since the last kickoff return. So it's pretty cool. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: Something pretty cool happening here in Buffalo, Pamela. It's been an emotional roller coaster for this team, for this city, from the tears and fear that started the week to the tears of joy and outpouring of support we're seeing now, Pamela. One heart may have stopped. But it made the whole world come together to beat as one. 
 
BROWN: It certainly did. That's a beautiful way to put it. I do want to play something for you that Christine Brennan said to me earlier tonight. So let's take a listen to that and then talk on the other end. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, CNN SPORTS ANALYST: This was it appears a freak injury in the sense of where he was hit at the exact moment, that millisecond, with his heartbeat, as we're hearing. But the fact that it was a routine play and it could happen like this, I think for everyone to take a step back and to have that conversation. I wouldn't be surprised if we hear about more players potentially retiring at the end of this season or considering retiring. 
 
When you go back and talk to your family and all of a sudden you see what you saw the other day, so I have no reporting on that. But my intuition covering football for all these decades is that maybe we will see people saying, you know, is it worth it? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: So, Coy, you played in the NFL for a decade. You know the NFL. Do you think what happened to Damar Hamlin will make players ask that question, is it worth it? 
 
WIRE: Make it ask the question, maybe. Make people retire, to put it succinctly, I would say no, probably not. You know, I say that from experience. For one, Pamela, playing on that field behind me in 2007 when my teammate Kevin Everett was paralyzed during a play. In college I played on a field where an opposing player was paralyzed from the neck down and passed away 18 months later due to complications from that paralysis. 
 
And I also say that from what I've heard from players. Bills star lineman Dion Dawkins told me after the game that this experience has made him appreciate life so much more. He said it makes him want to be a better father for his 3-year-old daughter. It makes him want to be a better teammate, a better person. And I think that's what we see with anything in life. Right? When tragedy strikes we sometimes reevaluate who we are, what we are, and how we can be for ourselves and for the world. 
 
So I understand her sentiments and they're justified and there will be people who think about that. But I think these athletes are going to go out there and learn to be better through all of this. 
 
BROWN: All right. Coy Wire, thanks so much. 
 
Well, you're in the CNN NEWSROOM on this Sunday. Power outages and flooding are plunging Northern California into darkness tonight. We are tracking the storm for you. Up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:28:08]
 
BROWN: Tonight we're hearing from Prince Harry directly. Another TV interview being broadcast ahead of his big book release just aired and the prince revealed new details about his family drama. They include the physical fight he had with Prince William over his relationship with his wife, Meghan Markle. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
PRINCE HARRY, DUKE OF SUSSEX: It was consuming a lot of the tabloid press, a lot of the stories. And he had a few issues which were based not on reality. And I was defending my wife. He was shouting at me. I was shouting back at him. It wasn't nice. It wasn't pleasant at all. And he snapped. And he pushed me to the floor. 
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: He knocked you over? 
 
PRINCE HARRY: He knocked me over. I landed on the dog bowl. 
 
COOPER: You cut your back? 
 
PRINCE HARRY: Yes. I cut my back. I Didn't know about it at the time. But, yes. He apologized afterwards. It was a pretty nasty experience. But -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: Joining us now, CNN royal correspondent Max Foster. 
 
Max, what stood out to you from these interviews? 
 
FOSTER: Well, there are a series of new revelations. Expanding on some as well. Like that one. We knew there had been this sort of altercation in one of the cottages on Kensington Palace. And then you get the extra detail there and you see him saying it. It's all in the book, of course. This is all about promoting the book. And more interviews to come. But talking there about William's issues with Meghan really. And Harry said that right from the get-go Kate and William just didn't connect with Meghan and he thinks it's because they were stereotyping her as someone who was, you know, American, biracial, just different, and that was a consistent problem. 
 
He's not talking to William now. He hasn't done for a while. Not talking to King Charles either. Talking -- going to the extent with iTV saying that his father struggled with being a father and particularly as a single father. 
 <br>[20:30:10]
 
I think one of the big revelations for me is about Camilla because he talks about this complicity between the palace and the tabloid media, and he gives an example of how Camilla was leaking stories about William predominantly and this was part of a campaign for her to become ultimately Charles's wife and queen. So that's a big accusation to make and something that you'd expect the palace to respond to, but they're not responding to any of this. So wait and see whether or not they do. But to criticize Camilla like that, the queen consort, is pretty significant. 
 
BROWN: It certainly is. And the rollout of this memoir, it has been pretty chaotic to say the least. Why do you think Harry is putting it all out there like this? 
 
FOSTER: Well, his constant frustration is how his story is misconstrued. He feels that obviously he's got huge issues with the U.K. media, the tabloid press in particular, but also the fact that stories were being fed to the press by the palace. He feels his story has never been told. He wants to tell it in his own words. He's putting it all out there. Everything. And that's what's so awkward for the palace, who, you know, they don't talk about private matters and he's exposing everything here. 
 
So huge amount of criticism actually of him on that, why is he revealing all these private details when he talks so much about protecting his own privacy. Some people say there's a contradiction there. He feels it's being honest. 
 
BROWN: Yes. And it's interesting. He said, look, they wouldn't recognize me and I don't recognize them, speaking about his dad and his brother. And as you point out, Buckingham Palace has a no comment policy on this. But do you expect Buckingham Palace to address any of these allegations, especially the ones including Camilla, queen consort? 
 
FOSTER: Well, you would wonder about Camilla. That would certainly be crossing the line I think for King Charles. But if they have made this blanket policy, they're not going to respond to any of this, allow Harry to have his say, so this eventually ends, then -- or rise above it depending on what their strategy is, but I don't think they will say anything. If they do respond, it will of course blow things up and Harry might want to recorrect whatever they correct. 
 
It is a real mess. It's really unfortunate for the U.K., for the royal family. And I think that Harry concedes it's unfortunate for them as well because he does talk about how he loves his brother, he loves his father, he does want to reconnect with them. But he wants a really big honest conversation where everything is on the table, and he also wants those conversations if they do happen to be private which some people say would be hypocritical. 
 
But, you know, if you follow his narrative, he now wants all this out in the open. He feels they've been very open. He now feels he's been open. Now let's have a private conversation. Wait to see what comes out of this. But the book comes out on Tuesday. A lot of people pointing out he is being paid for all of this. He's selling these stories. But he doesn't have any qualms about that at all. He says he's got to support his family. 
 
BROWN: Yes. It's hard to imagine given everything that's already out there that we're going to learn much new when his book is officially released. We shall see. 
 
Max Foster, thank you so much. 
 
And join Anderson Cooper tomorrow night for a special report on Prince Harry as they discuss revelations from his book, "Spare." The "360" special airs tomorrow night at 8:00 right here on CNN. 
 
Well, can thousands of New York nurses and their hospitals reach a deal before the clock strikes midnight? An update on that up next as the deadline quickly approaches. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:37:54]
 
BROWN: President Biden has just landed in an airport outside Mexico City after his visit to El Paso, Texas, to see the southern border. And tomorrow he'll meet with Mexico's president. 
 
Also tonight, emergency officials in Northern California this evening issuing evacuation warnings for communities south of Sacramento. They are taking precautions in case rising water spills onto roads and prevents people from leaving that area. 
 
Right now more than 400,000 people are in the dark across Northern California. More than 30 million others are under flood watches through Tuesday. And we just learned minutes ago that California Governor Gavin Newsom says he will be requesting approval from the White House for an emergency declaration. 
 
CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam is tracking the storm for us. So, Derek, where is the system right now? 
 
DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Right now, Pamela, the system is actually about 500 miles off the coast of California. I mean, look at this. It looks like Mother Nature is about to bowl a strike. You can see that bowling ball just swinging toward the West Coast. It is directing a plume of moisture already into the central and northern portions of California. And this is going to be a multiday storm. Weather Prediction Center picking up on that. In fact, extending the moderate risk of flash flooding from San Francisco southward into Los Angeles for tomorrow as well into Tuesday. 
 
So that's the difference with this storm system. It's going to be a long duration event. We're going to add to the rainfall totals that we've already seen within the past two days. San Francisco, National Weather Service office talking about how this will be a high impact event. It can consider that the recent burn scars in the area and then the additional rainfall is going to lead to mudslides and landslides and potential for flash flooding considering just how saturated this ground is. 
 
There are so many hazards here, but let's talk about the rain. 30 million people impacted with -- these are flood watches stretching from the northern parts of the state all the way to Southern California. And the forecast rain gauges here could reach major flood status across the greater San Francisco Bay region. I mean, just look at the storm system sending a significant plume of moisture kind of oscillating from the north, the south. 
 <br>[20:40:02]
 
This will be a multiday event, Pamela, where we'll have basically impossible travel conditions across Interstate 80 from Reno all the way to Sacramento. 
 
BROWN: All right, Derek Van Dam, thank you. 
 
Well, negotiations are under way right now to avert a planned nurses strike in New York. Thousands of nurses are scheduled to walk out on Monday morning if tentative contract agreements cannot be reached. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NANCY HAGANS, PRESIDENT, NEW YORK STATE NURSES ASSOCIATION: Our number one issue is the crisis of staffing. Chronic understaffing that harms patient care. Safe staffing is about having enough nurses to deliver safe care. Quality care to every patient. It is an issue that our employers have ignored. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: CNN's Gloria Pazmino is following the last-minute negotiations and joins us now. 
 
So, Gloria, New York's governor is now involved. What is she calling for? 
 
GLORIA PAZMINO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, it's coming down to the wire here, Pam. The governor is asking both the union and hospital management to bring in a binding arbitration. That means a neutral party that would have to be brought in to work out a deal between these two parties that are having clearly a very hard time coming to an agreement. 
 
In the last couple of hours, however, two of the hospital systems did reach a tentative agreement. However, there's still a couple of different hospitals that remain without a deal. That still means that potentially thousands of nurses, as you said, could be walking off the job tomorrow morning. Montefiore in the Bronx primarily still without a deal. And Mount Sinai, the main campus is still trying to work out its agreement. 
 
Now you had there the president of the union talking about the staffing issue. That appears to be the sticking point here. And this is a trend that we have been seeing all across the country, a shortage of nurses and a staff that feels that they are spread out really thin when it comes to providing services at the hospital. Ultimately, they say that harms the patients and that they're not able to provide the services that patients deserve. 
 
We wanted to ask hospital management about that sticking point and we spoke to Mount Sinai earlier today about how this is going to impact patients should the strike happen tomorrow. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DR. FRANCES CARTWRIGHT, CHIEF NURSING OFFICER AND SENIOR VICE CHAIRMAN, THE MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL: When we say we make a promise to our patients, we're going to keep you safe and we're going to provide you with the best quality care. Today for us that means we have to transfer some of our patients to other sites to make sure that they get that care. And others it's causing a delay. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PAZMINO: So caught in the middle here, Pam, are patients, their families, people who need care, people who are waiting to get treatment. And management, they are speaking about some of the contingency plans that they've put into place to make sure they can deliver those services. But of course this is coming down to the wire. The governor now getting involved. We are waiting to hear from the union to see if they agree to that binding arbitration -- Pam. 
 
BROWN: All right. Gloria Pazmino, thank you. 
 
Well, you are in the CNN NEWSROOM on this Sunday night. So how did Rudy Giuliani go from being America's mayor to holding a news conference at Four Seasons Total Landscaping? How could you forget that? A closer look at tonight's CNN Original Series, up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:48:02]
 
BROWN: Rudy Giuliani is the former New York City mayor who became a hero to so many people, not just New Yorkers, in the aftermath of 9/11. And he is now facing a litany of legal troubles for his role in spreading Donald Trump's election conspiracy theories and allegedly encouraging the January 6th insurrection, which he denies. Now the new CNN Original Series "GIULIANI: WHAT HAPPENED TO AMERICA'S
 
 MAYOR," provides a revealing look at the epic rise and fall of this iconic American politician. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT: Forget Paris and forget London and forget everything else. New York city is where it's at. 
 
MICHAEL TOMASKY, CHIEF POLITICAL ANALYST, NEW YORK MAGAZINE, 1995- 2003: I don't know how close Giuliani and Trump were personally in the 1980s. But I do know they occupied similar spaces. 
 
ERROL LOUIS, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: They're outer borough guys. One thing that they have inherited from their fathers is a certain kind of awe and resentment of Manhattan and those rich people. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Rudy represented the kind of every guy who came from the boroughs and came to New York and made it big. 
 
ANTHONY SCARAMUCCI, FORMER WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: If you are a person that's looking at a snow globe, if you will, from the outside, even if you end up inside the snow globe you always feel like an outsider. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Giuliani didn't come from the upper crust establishment. That may have fueled his ambition. Did it also contribute to some deep sense of insecurity, that he was an outsider? And in that maybe he does identify with Trump. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: Joining us now is CNN senior political analyst and anchor John Avlon. He also served as chief speechwriter for Rudy Giuliani when he was mayor of New York City. 
 
So, John, we just marked the second anniversary of the January 6th insurrection, and this documentary, it really does an amazing job of examining how the Rudy Giuliani of 9/11 became the Rudy Giuliani of January 6th. What is your take on that? 
 <br>[20:50:01]
 
JOHN AVLON, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: It does. And I think it does a good job at breaking down this operatic American life, I mean, into really four acts. You've got -- he's introduced to the American people and certainly New Yorkers as a crusading U.S. attorney. Takes down the mob. As an Italian American, takes on Wall Street crime, then becomes elected mayor of New York, a city that many people thought were ungovernable, and proved the opposite. And that record as mayor before 9/11 is extraordinary. 
 
I mean, he cuts crime and welfare in half, focuses on quality of life, businesses come back, people come back to the city. So it's a really very effective tenure. Then there's America's mayor. He's rising to the moment, the man meeting the moment after 9/11. And then there's this descent, this tragic fall, when he falls in with Donald Trump and becomes the number one emissary in the court of public opinion trying to defend Donald Trump's election lie. And it's a tragic fall. 
 
But the challenge always is to see life in context and perspective. And that's what this documentary really attempts to do. 
 
BROWN: I'm curious, do you think Giuliani believes the lies that he has told about the election and thinks he's done the right thing in his support of Trump through all of this? 
 
AVLON: I take him at his word. And, you know, now -- you know, in deposition, he'll say, well, he didn't really check the information he was given at that time. But of course that doesn't fly. And, look, as people get older, they get more so. But there's a fundamental contradiction in the Rudy I knew and was proud to work for and the Rudy in this last chapter of his life. I mean, the Rudy I knew was a guy who said that the law was about a search for the truth. But he's displayed the opposite in this last chapter. 
 
The Rudy I knew and was proud to worked for said that to be locked into partisan politics doesn't permit you to think clearly. And I think if there's any key to the change, it's perhaps that. He got locked into hyper partisan politics and he has not been thinking clearly as a result. 
 
BROWN: John Avlon, thank you. 
 
AVLON: Thank you. 
 
BROWN: And the all-new CNN Original Series, "GIULIANI: WHAT HAPPENED TO AMERICA'S MAYOR?" airs in just a few minutes only on CNN. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[20:56:26]
 
BROWN: Tomorrow night, a national champion will be crowned in college football. The TCU Horned Frogs will battle the defending champion Georgia Bulldogs in Los Angeles. The Frogs are a big underdog, despite taking down undefeated Michigan in the semifinals. Georgia, meanwhile, squeaked by Ohio State after a missed field goal with just seconds remaining. If Georgia wins, they'll be the first team to win back-to- back titles in the college football playoff era. 
 
So let's bring in Morgan Moriarty. She is the college football reporter for "Bleacher Report." She joins us now. 
 
Good evening to you, Morgan. So Georgia is the big favorite here, right? But we should note the Bulldogs did struggle in their semifinal game. So what does Georgia need to do differently tomorrow night? 
 
MORGAN MORIARTY, COLLEGE FOOTBALL REPORTER, BLEACHER REPORT: Yes. I think it's a little surprising that Georgia is a 12.5 point favorite. Obviously everyone saw just how much Ohio State really dominated Georgia throughout that game. Obviously Georgia won, and that's all that matters. But I think the biggest key for Georgia is getting back to that pass rush on defense. You have to make Max Duggan uncomfortable in the pocket. Make him get the ball out a lot quicker. That's going to be key. 
 
And then obviously in the secondary, you have to clean up the issues that you had against Ohio State. You cannot leave guys like Quinton Johnston, TCU's standout wide receiver wide open, Taye Barber, another really talented wide receiver. So I think they're the two biggest things offensively. Stetson Bennett just getting back to what he does best. They're going to be dealing with a little bit of injuries. Ladd McConkey has been dealing with some knee soreness, and Darnell Washington, our tight end, is questionable for Monday night's game. 
 
He's dealing with an ankle injury. But the biggest thing is the pass rush and then cleaning up the issues in the secondary I think will be huge for Georgia tomorrow night. 
 
BROWN: All right. Let's talk about TCU. They might be the underdogs, but they deserve to be in this game, right? What do they need to do to win? 
 
MORIARTY: Yes, I think two big things for TCU. I think the biggest thing is they cannot turn the ball over. They had three turnovers against Michigan last week. You cannot do that against this Georgia offense and give them any short field. I think that's how this game gets out of hand really quickly for TCU early on. So that's going to be key. 
 
I think TCU defensively, making Georgia's offense one dimensional will be key, shutting down the run game in Kenny McIntosh. TCU runs this really unique defense. It's a 3-3-5. So, they only line up three defensive linemen on the line of scrimmage. It looks like you can kind of run the ball with ease. But we've seen this TCU defense do a really good job against the run. Last week against Michigan, they held them to under 200 yards on the ground. Did a really great job against Texas earlier in the year, shutting down DeJohn Robinson. 
 
So I think that's going to be key. Obviously it's a big tough task. This is a really talented Georgia team. But those are the two biggest teams, for me, I think, defensively for TCU. 
 
BROWN: Got to ask, what is your prediction, Georgia or TCU? 
 
MORIARTY: I'm going to go Georgia in a really close game. Just the biggest thing that stands out to me when I was looking at this game and breaking down the matchup was last season Georgia against Alabama in the SEC championship game. Bryce Young just absolutely torched this Georgia secondary. He threw for over 400 yards, had three touchdowns. The pass rush really wasn't there. And then of course in the rematch in the national title game, Georgia's defense just looked completely dominant, like it had all season. They sacked Bryce Young four times. He threw two interceptions. I just think Kirby Smart is such a master game planner, that he's going to look at that film against Ohio State, be able to clean up the issues in the pass rush in the secondary, and you know.