Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Russia Blames Ukraine of Moscow Drone Attack; Third Possible Indictment of Former U.S. President Trump; No Let Up on Record Breaking Heat Wave in the U.S.; Greece Force Thousands to Evacuate Because of Wildfires; Benjamin Netanyahu Discharged from Hospital, Protests Intensify; No Clear Majority in Spain's Snap Election. Aired 2-3a ET

Aired July 24, 2023 - 02:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[02:00:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN HOST:  Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. I'm Rosemary Church. Just ahead on "CNN Newsroom", drone strikes hit two buildings in the center of Russia's capital. Moscow is blaming Ukraine for the attack. We're live in London with details. 
 
As a third potential indictment blooms, some of Donald Trump's GOP rivals try to downplay his role in the January 6th insurrection. We will look at what they are saying and where it all goes from here. 
 
Plus, no relief from the heat in the U.S. southwest, the forecast plus what other parts of the country can expect. 
 
Good to have you with us. Well, we begin this hour in Moscow where Russia is claiming to have thwarted a Ukrainian drone attack in the early hours of Monday. This video, geolocated by CNN, appears to show one of those drones flying above the city. The Defense Ministry says it intercepted two of them and that they subsequently crashed in the capital. Moscow's mayor says two non-residential buildings were hit but there were no reports of serious damage or casualties. 
 
The alleged attack happened a day after Russia carried out a fifth wave of strikes in the Ukrainian port city of Odessa. At least one person was killed and several cultural landmarks were damaged. And just moments ago, another Russian attack was reported on Ukrainian ports, this time along the Danube River. And CNN's Clare Sebastian is following all the latest developments for us. She joins us now live from London. Good morning to you Clare. So, what more you learning about these drone strikes on Moscow?
 
CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, Rosemary. This appears to be the fourth time since the beginning of May that we've seen drones targeting the Russian capital. Just like we saw at the beginning of July, the Ministry of Defense saying that they were able to thwart these attacks using what they call electronic warfare, essentially jamming. But they are overtly blaming Ukraine, the Ministry of Defense saying this was an attempt by what they call the Kyiv regime to launch a terrorist attack. 
 
And as you said, we're talking two locations. One in the center of Moscow where state media reported debris was found. We could see a road closure on a local traffic map earlier this morning, which seemed to be an area, you know, really quite central area, close to the Ministry of Defense building. That road closure appears to have been lifted now. 
 
And separately in the south -- southern part of the city, a building looks like it's been damaged, a non-residential building, according to the mayor of the city. Residents coming out, having a look, seems to have been fairly loud in some areas. Take a listen to what this one resident had to say. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
POLINA, MOSCOW RESIDENT (through translation):  I was asleep and was woken up by an explosion. Everything started to shake. It felt like the whole building had come down. I looked out of the window. I live in the neighboring building on the side where there's less damage and it felt strange. The damage was so minor. Well, okay, not minor. Any explosion is scary. But it sounded worse than it looked, as it seemed like the whole mall had exploded. After that, I looked online and saw the amount of damage from this side and we came and had a look from here. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SEBASTIAN:  Well, no casualties or serious damage reported according to the mayor of Moscow. Separately, Rosemary, we're hearing from the Russian head of Crimea this morning that they apparently shot down 11, he says, drones over that region, but a house and an ammunition depot were destroyed there. This comes, of course, after a week of Russian drone attacks, targeting in particular the port city of Odessa. President Zelensky, in his overnight comments, his nightly comments saying that there will be retaliation. He said they will feel this retaliation. 
 
CHURCH:  And Claire, what is the latest on President Putin's efforts to export Russia's grain after ending Ukraine shipments and striking the war-torn nation's grain facilities overnight? 
 
SEBASTIAN:  Yeah, more strikes, in fact, Rosemary, are being reported this morning on grain facilities overnight. This is coming from Ukraine's Southern Command and the regional authorities in Odessa that now, apparently, in a four-hour long attack by Shahed drones, the grain infrastructure around the Danube ports was targeted. 
 <br>[02:05:07]
 
So not the Black Sea ports, but the Danube ports. Essentially that is Ukraine's plan B before the grain deal last July unlocked those three Black Sea ports. Their only option was to really transport grain along the Danube and try to access other European ports to try to export their grain. So, this looks like Russia now targeting that plan B as well. And all of that comes as we hear from President Putin in an article published on the Kremlin website on Sunday that he is now promising that Russia with its own food supplies will be able to replace Ukrainian grain on the market. 
 
Really sort of smacks of him trying to have his cake and eat it, essentially trying to soften the blow to Russia's African alliances that it's been trying to cultivate really since the beginning of the war to soften the blow of this grain deal, essentially threatening their food suppliers by promising to replace it while at the same time maintaining his ability to use Russia's leverage over this deal to try and get sanctions concessions from the West. So that is what he is promising, saying Russia will have another record harvest this year, Rosemary. 
 
CHURCH:  All right, our thanks to Clare Sebastian joining us live from London. Well, this could be an historic week for former U.S. President Donald Trump, who's facing the possibility of a third criminal indictment this year, this time for trying to overturn the 2020 election. Even Trump himself believes the indictment is coming. The question is when. 
 
A third indictment could also be a game changer in the battle for the Republican presidential nomination. But some of Trump's Republican challengers are shrugging off his role in the January 6th insurrection. Among those questioning the case against him, his former vice president, Mike Pence. Pence was whisked away to safety that day, you would recall, as rioters chanted "Hang Mike Pence" after believing Trump's claim that Pence had the power to overturn the results but refused. Here's what Pence told CNN about it on Sunday. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE PENCE, FORMER VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: While his words were reckless, based on what I know, I'm not yet convinced that they were criminal. President Trump was wrong on that day and he's still wrong in asserting that I had the right to overturn the election. But what his intentions were, and as you know, criminal charges have everything to do with intent, what the president's state of mind was. And I don't honestly know what his intention was that day, whether as he spoke to that crowd, as he tweeted during the riot itself.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CHURCH:  Another indictment for Trump would also add to what is already a packed political and legal schedule. As you can see here, he will be juggling both priorities in January, March and May of next year at least. 
 
Jessica Levinson joins me now from Los Angeles. She is a professor at Loyola Law School and host of the "Passing Judgment Podcast." Good to have you with us. Good to be here. 
 
So, former U.S. President Donald Trump faces possible indictment this week, and in response, he is making threats about what will likely happen if his legal woes worsen, even reposting a video threatening revenge if he's indicted by Special Counsel Jack Smith. So, what's your legal reaction to this and of course the dog whistle to Trump's base?
 
JESSICA LEVINSON, PROFESSOR OF LAW, LOYOLA LAW SCHOOL:  And we know that words matter because we all live through January 6, 2021. And we know that when the president speaks to his base they are listening and they will mobilize and sometimes they will become violent. So, if I were the president's attorney, obviously I'd be very upset. This is not good for him. The judge is, or potential future judge is watching. 
 
And when it comes to things like gag orders and exchange of discovery, you have to know what kind of litigant you're dealing with when you have somebody who is threatening revenge on the Department of Justice. Politically speaking, I think it's a very, very different story. I think this is what his base largely wants to hear, that this is a witch hunt and that they need to basically reclaim the president's good name and they need to take action to do so. 
 
CHURCH:  And Jessica, former Vice President Mike Pence says he is not yet convinced that Trump's actions on January 6th were criminal. And Florida Governor Ron DeSantis says January 6th was not an insurrection but instead an unfortunate attack. What is your legal and political assessment of these claims from two GOP presidential hopefuls? 
 
LEVINSON:  Well, I don't think they are making legal assessments so I don't think that we really need to take that on. Those are political comments because they're both running for president.
 <br>[02:09:58]
 
And they're trying to thread a needle of getting the former president's supporters and saying that they will be -- they will hold up the mantle, that they will be Trump-ism without Trump. And so, they're trying to be very careful not to turn off those who support him, which potentially means saying what most of us see, which is there was, in fact, an insurrection in the Capitol and that there is very likely the potential of a criminal indictment when it comes to the 2020 election. And I think those are things they simply don't want to say out loud, but that's a political calculation. I don't read that as a legal assessment. 
 
CHURCH:  So, overall, what is Trump's legal or likely legal jeopardy as all these various investigations into his actions play out? How far might this go? 
 
LEVINSON:  Well, if the former president can postpone these trials until after the election, and if he wins, that is absolutely his best defense. The electoral calendar and trying to run that out is his best legal defense because then he will appoint an attorney general who will ask federal judges if there are more than one federal case that are pending to dismiss those cases. 
 
Now, of course, there could still be at least two state cases pending. But I think what he is looking at is the calendar. And if you listen to what his team is saying inside the courtroom, particularly in Florida, largely what they're fighting about is timing. And they know that the longer they can delay, the better it is for them. The Department of Justice knows this is the most highly publicized
 
 case that they will ever bring when it comes to the Mar-a-Lago case. And if they do in fact bring one related to the 2020 election, then that also will of course be very highly publicized and they are, I think, in the process of dotting their i's and crossing their t's. 
 
CHURCH:  And new polling shows that only seven candidates have qualified to participate in next month's first GOP presidential debate. Trump, DeSantis, Ramaswamy, Pence, Haley, Scott and Christie. Trump says he may not even show up and his support reveals that he may not need to because despite his legal woes, his way out in front. In fact, it seems to be helping him. So, that leaves only Christie to question the former president's actions because he seems to be the only one who dares to. What can we expect from that debate, with DeSantis in second place, but losing ground against Scott, who has been gaining support in Iowa? 
 
LEVINSON:  I think what we can expect is a lot of trying to dance on the head of a pin, so to speak, because this is a group, as we just talked about, they want those Trump voters because they need them in order to win the primary. I mean, the math just doesn't add up in any way other than whoever gets the nomination will in fact need those voters who voted for Trump in 2016 and 2020. 
 
And this is a group that largely still supports him. So, it's hard for all of the other people and this really is Trump and everybody else. It's hard for the everybody else to try and make the case that they're better when Trump is still in the running. And I think we're going to hear a lot of them trying out new narratives for why they should get these votes, even though Trump is still in the race. He's essentially running as an incumbent, and that's always hard for challengers. 
 
CHURCH:  Jessica Levinson, appreciate you joining us. Thank you. 
 
LEVINSON:  Thank you. 
 
CHURCH:  An unrelenting heat wave that's been sweeping across the U.S. for more than a month could continue into August, that is according to meteorologists. More than 2,300 heat alerts have been issued across America since June 10th, many breaking high temperature records. No stranger to the heat, Phoenix, Arizona, has had an especially hot summer. 
 
For the past 23 days, Phoenix has recorded temperatures exceeding 110 degrees Fahrenheit. Americans should not expect to cool off anytime soon. The National Weather Service has issued a reminder that heat is the number one cause of extreme weather deaths, more than hurricanes and tornadoes. CNN meteorologist Chad Myers has more on what's in store for the United States. 
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  Tens of millions of Americans still under some type of heat watch warning for Monday, and that number will likely go up for your Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and I will show you why. Corpus Christi, though, look at you later on today; 112 for the feels like temperature. You don't need humidity out here to get the air temperature, and these are numbers in the shade. Vegas around 110, Phoenix still around 115, Death Valley right around 120. 
 <br>[02:14:59]
 
Now this heat dome that we've been talking about for weeks will eventually begin to spread out a little bit. It's going to start to move on up to the north, the jet's going to get pushed up into Canada, and these temperatures are going to begin to slide off to the east rather significantly. Temperatures are going to go up a lot as we work our way into the middle part of the week, from the 80s to over 100 in some spots like Minneapolis. 
 
So, for today, 91, but then by Thursday, Friday, you're up above 100 degrees. And this is typically not a dry heat in Minneapolis because the corn is all through Ohio and Iowa, Indiana. We call it corn sweat. It's the evapotranspiration of the corn that's out there giving humidity to the air and so 101 is going to feel much warmer than that in some spots. 
 
And then for New York City, you're going to take a little longer to get to that heat, but you're going to be all the way to 96 on Friday. So, get ready for some much warmer weather out there. 
 
CHURCH:  And Greece is carrying out what it calls its largest ever evacuation effort as wildfires rage on the island of Rhodes. More than 19,000 tourists and residents have fled their homes and hotels. Some describe harrowing journeys, escaping on foot with fire directly at their backs. Greek officials have set up shelters in northern Rhodes and say they're establishing a dedicated help desk to get foreign nationals safely home.
 
So, let's get the latest now from Elinda Labropoulou who joins us live from the town of Mandra just northwest of Athens. So, Elinda, what more are you learning about Greece's largest evacuations in its history prompted by these wildfires? 
 
ELINDA LABROPOULOU, JOURNALIST:  Well, these largest evacuations that we've seen so far have taken place on the island of Rhodes. Unfortunately, the country is very much like a tinderbox right now. We've had a heatwave, a prolonged heatwave that's been going on for more than 10 days. Where I am right now is where we had a number of fires throughout last week and rekindling all the time. So, we've woken up to the news that a fire that started in Corfu yesterday is also underway. 
 
We understand this is also a large fire and it's prompting some evacuations on that island as well. So, what we have at the moment is two of Greece's most popular tourist islands in the mid of peak season, basically carrying on evacuations. On the island of Rhodes, we've had about 19,000 people evacuated so far, about 16,000 by road, 3,000 by sea, and thousands of people are now leaving the island, some moving to other tourist resorts around the country. 
 
We have spoken to the fire service this morning. Unfortunately, the weather news is not good. It's not promising at all. Where I am there's already strong winds in the area and the situation are going to deteriorate further during the day. You have to understand that Greece has been looking at incredible temperature scorching heat of over 40 degrees Celsius for days now, 104 Fahrenheit, and this is a situation that's going to continue. 
 
All we're hearing is new fires here, new fires there, some bigger than others, but certainly the one in Rhodes, the one in Corfu and a couple of other fires in greater Athens and the island of Evia, an area that burned down very strongly a couple of years ago, are the worst ones to look at now. Authorities are telling us that they are taking care. So far, we've had -- luckily there have been no victims and we have not heard of any severe injuries, just some people taken to hospitals and of course tourists trying to make their way back home, Rosemary. But this is a developing story really and it will continue it seems. 
 
CHURCH:  Alright, Elinda Labropoulou, many thanks for bringing us up to date on the situation on the ground there. Well, still to come, anger continues on the streets of Israel as lawmakers debate a contentious judicial reform bill. We will have the latest just ahead. 
 
Almost all of the votes have been counted in Spain, but the country's snap election has failed to yield a clear winner. We'll discuss what happens next ahead on "CNN Newsroom."
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:20:00]
 
CHURCH:  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is now out of the hospital after undergoing surgery for a pacemaker implant. He was hospitalized over the weekend for what doctors say was a transient heart block. It comes as Israeli lawmakers are debating a bill that would curb some powers of the Israeli Supreme Court, and a vote is expected in the coming hours. 
 
Mr. Netanyahu earlier said he would attend that vote. Meantime, thousands of demonstrators continue to protest across Israel. Many also converged on Jerusalem and police are using water cannon to try and disperse them. Well, for more, we want to go to journalist Elliott Gotkine who joins us live from Tel Aviv. Good to see you, Elliot. So, Israeli lawmakers set to vote in the coming hours on this first part of the judicial overhaul bill. What's expected to be the outcome of this? 
 
ELLIOTT GOTKINE, JOURNALIST:  Rosemary, I suppose the short answer is that assuming these votes go ahead, the governing coalition, controlled by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his Likud Party, assuming these votes go ahead, they have 64 out of 120 seats in Israel's Knesset or parliament. So, the vote, or so this bill, would get passed by the governing coalition. 
 
However, first of all, there is a huge amount of pressure going on in order to find some kind of compromise. President Isaac Herzog, just fresh back off the plane from visiting President Joe Biden in the United States, went straight to the hospital to visit Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu last night. Of course, as you say, he was discharged this morning, went straight to see Netanyahu last night, also met with opposition leaders trying to broker some kind of compromise. 
 
Now, according to reports, it seems to be that one of the main sticking points is how far down the road to kick the can of the rest of this package of judicial overhaul measures that the government is trying to push through. 
 <br>[02:24:57]
 
So, there are still attempts to broker a compromise. If no compromise is reached and the vote goes ahead, then it seems set to be passed into law. Now, what happens next after that is, I suppose, the more interesting question, because what happens next is that the president, Isaac Herzog, would need to sign this bill into law. In theory, he could refuse, but that would be unprecedented. But then it would go probably to the Supreme Court itself to decide if this law that seeks to neuter the Supreme Court's ability to dismiss laws or strike off laws, strike down laws that it deems unreasonable, it could effectively say, no, you can't block us. 
 
This law to block the Supreme Court from blocking laws that the Supreme Court deems unreasonable is itself unreasonable and therefore cannot be passed into law. And if that happens, then we have the grounds for what would be the equivalent in a country that has a constitution of a constitutional crisis. It would be a bit of a mess. But as I say, huge amount of pressure, not least from the opposition, from those protesters you see on the streets, from tech workers, lawyers, and some business groups also going on strike today, and also from President Biden himself. 
 
For the second time in a week, Biden, in a statement sent to CNN, intervening in Israel's -- in this vote, saying, "Given the range of threats and challenges confronting Israel right now, it doesn't make sense for Israeli leaders to rush this."  Biden adding that, "the focus should be on pulling people together and finding consensus." There is no sign of that just yet, Rosemary, but there are still many moves going on in the background to try to ensure that some kind of consensus can be found. 
 
CHURCH:  Yeah. We'll be watching to see where all of this goes. Elliott Gotkine joining us live from Tel Aviv. Many thanks. 
 
With more than 99 percent of the vote counted, there is no clear winner in Spain's snap elections. The centre-right People's Party is set to come in first, winning 136 seats in parliament. But in order to govern, a party or coalition must have a working majority of 176 seats in the 350-seat legislature. And because no single party won enough seats to form a government on their own, the tough task of trying to build a coalition must begin. 
 
Well, journalist Al Goodman joins me now live from Madrid. Good morning to you, Al. So, no clear winner in Spain's snap election, defying predictions, in fact. So, what happens now? 
 
AL GOODMAN, JOURNALIST:  Hi, Rosemary. Well, behind me is the Spanish parliament. Inside there are those 350 seats that lawmakers sit in. That's what these political parties were vying for in this election. But as you say, none of them, not one party, got the 176-seat majority. Now, there is a coalition government already in place for the last four years under the socialist leader Pedro Sanchez, the current prime minister. So, Spain is not completely new to coalitions. 
 
And this election was framed around would there be a coalition of the right with the center-right main conservative party and possibly the far-right Vox Party as one option or a repeat of the prime minister with a variety of other leftist parties, smaller leftist parties beside the socialists? Because of this mixed result where the conservatives can claim they won but not getting close enough to do a deal. 
 
If you look at the faces on the people last night outside the two- party headquarters, which I did, and you look at the faces of the leaders, here's what happened. The Spanish left was really trying to keep the far-right Vox Party out of Spanish government. It would have been the first time since the death of Francisco Franco nearly 50 years ago that far-right was in the government. 
 
That hasn't happened so far. And the conservatives were trying to get in. The conservative leader said he wanted to get in and govern alone. He didn't get anywhere close to having enough seats. The socialists are now saying they will talk to all these other smaller parties. The arithmetic and the size of the parties is more complicated than four years ago. So, we can expect some tough negotiations going on right here in the heart of the summer tourist season. 
 
So, there may be a little bit of a break. The horse trading will begin. And in about a month's time in August the parliament convenes again, comes off a vacation, and tries to get an investor -- an investor to vote, the king of Spain, King Felipe VI, the head of state, has to see each party. and try to propose a candidate who might possibly be able to get through with investiture. Rosemary? 
 
CHURCH:  All right. Our thanks to Al Goodman in Madrid. Appreciate it. 
 
Well, just ahead, the governor of Texas reacts after the U.S. Justice Department says it could take legal action if the state does not remove floating border barriers. We'll have the latest from Washington.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[02:33:40]
 
CHURCH: Texas Governor Greg Abbott says his state has the sovereign authority to defend its border as it faces a Monday deadline to commit to removing floating barriers on the Rio Grande. That deadline was set by the U.S. Justice Department which has warn the state could face legal action. CNN's Priscilla Alvarez has details from the White House.
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: The Justice Department has given Texas Governor Greg Abbott until Monday afternoon to tell the administration whether he is going to remove the floating barriers along the Rio Grande. It's the latest escalation in the feud between President Joe Biden and Texas Governor Greg Abbott, over the handling of the U.S.-Mexico border.
 
In a letter on Thursday, the Justice Department said that Texas did not have authorization to set up the floating barriers this month, citing a clause in the law to that effect. They also went on to say, "The state of Texas actions violate federal law, raise humanitarian concerns, presents serious risks to public safety and the environment and may interfere with the federal government's ability to carry out its official duties."
 
Now officials have been talking for months within the administration as to what actions of any could be taken by the Justice Department as they watched with concern the actions the Texas governor was taking along the Texas-Mexico border. Those floating barriers have for example, posed a potential drowning risk to migrants who are caught -- are crossing. Now, the Texas governor in a tweet said that it is the sovereign authority to defend our border.
 <br>[02:35:09]
 
So, he is standing firm on his position to keep those barriers. But again, he can reply by Monday afternoon as to whether or not he will take them down. If not, the Justice Department says in their letter, they're ready to take the Texas governor to court.
 
Priscilla Alvarez, CNN, the White House.
 
CHURCH: Bye-bye, Birdie. That is the word from Elon Musk as he moves to replace Twitter's iconic logo. Coming up, we'll hear why he may be changing the logo and the very nature of Twitter itself.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHURCH: Twitter is about to have a new look. No bird. CEO Elon Musk has announced he wants a black logo like this one only with an X rather than the bird that has become a worldwide icon. As CNN's Clare Duffy explains it may signal Musk's desire to build Twitter into a much more wide-ranging platform.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER: I think in some way this is an evolution, the continuation of what Musk's vision for this company has been since he bought it. He bought Twitter with a company called X Corp. And he talks about that the idea the goal of turning Twitter into this everything app called X. Sort of in the style of China's WeChat wanting to make it a place where users not only communicate but they can also shop and consume entertainment.
 
And so, in some ways, I think this move to get rid of the Twitter branding and to replace it with X is in service of that vision. It's also interesting timing. Musk said just last week that Twitter still has negative cashflow because of 50 percent decline in ad revenue. And so, I think this could also be an effort on his part to continue to try to shift the image of the company in the mind of advertisers as a way of trying to lure them back on the platform.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[02:40:02]
 
CHURCH: Musk says he is ready to change the logo as soon as he can. He's already using the X on tweets.
 
And you can add movie star to Barbie's long resume. The new queen of the box office reigned supreme this weekend bringing in $155 million in the U.S. box office alone. It marks the top grossing opening weekend in the U.S. so far this year, but also the biggest debut for a female director ever. The film's marketing was helped by a healthy competition with the Christopher Nolan thriller Oppenheimer with many fans opting to see both films as a double feature.
 
Well, it was an emotional goodbye for Harry Styles who ended his nearly two year-long tour in Italy over the weekend. His final show ended with an extra encore and an emotional speech. His Love On Tour started in Las Vegas in September 2021. The show made stops on five continents and became one of the 10 highest grossing tours of all time according to Billboard. As of last week, the pop singer had earned nearly $600 million from the tour. Incredible.
 
Thanks so much for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. For our international viewers. World Sport is up next. And for those of you here in the United States and in Canada, I'll be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment. Do stick around.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[02:45:30]
 
CHURCH: An unarmed black man was attacked by a police officer's canine in Ohio as he surrendered to authorities with his hands up. This despite a state trooper repeatedly urging officers not to release the dog. CNN's Paolo Sandoval takes you through what happened in the July 4th incident.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): The footage provided by Ohio State Highway Patrol is disturbing but now under scrutiny after a man was mauled by police officer's canine. July 4th, Jackson County, Ohio. A case report shows a highway patrol officer in a marked vehicle tried stopping the driver of this big rig for missing mudflap. The man behind the wheel later identified by authorities as 23-year-old Jadarrius Rose, drives on and a chase begins.
 
About 20 minutes into the pursuit, the big rig is seen rolling to a stop.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Get out of the truck.
 
SANDOVAL (voiceover): But that lasts only a few seconds. The driver continues to flee and officers stay on him for another eight minutes.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He took off again. We're heading northbound. SANDOVAL (voiceover): It wasn't until police use tire deflation devices.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: For stop.
 
SANDOVAL (voiceover): That the chase came to a slow but dramatic and disturbing stop. That's a Circleville Ohio Police Department Canine Unit rolling up to the scene. After repeated orders from state troopers, the driver eventually steps out of the rig. His hands in the air as requested. A patrolman is heard asking the canine to not be released. Though it's unclear if he could be heard by all officers on scene. That's when the canine is deployed.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Do not release the dog with his hands up. Do not release the dog with his hands up. Do not release the dog with his hands up. Don't.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Get the dog off of him. 
 
SANDOVAL (voiceover): After the canine takedown, an officer approaches then quickly walks away. Her hands covering her face as Rose screams in pain. The frustration audible and the voice of another state officer.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're not loud enough?
 
SANDOVAL (voiceover): After the dog is removed. Officers move in to arrest Rose and administer first aid. 
 
JADARRIUS ROSE, TRUCK DRIVER: You just let the dog bite me.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All he had to do is come to me.
 
ROSE: I was coming. All the guns pointed at me. How do you expect me to respect you? You got a gun pointed at me. There's 20 of you all.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: All you had to is stop, brother.
 
ROSE: I did stop.
 
SANDOVAL (voiceover): A spokesperson for the Ohio State Highway Patrol tells CNN, its troopers were attempting to gain compliance by providing verbal commands to the suspect. The Circleville Police Department deployed their canine which resulted in the suspect being bitten.
 
CNN has reached out to the Circleville Police Department for comment. Police say Rose was taken to a local hospital where he was treated and released before being taken to jail. His attorney declined to comment.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
SANDOVAL: For that case report that was filed, Rose reportedly spoke to troopers while he was at the hospital being treated for his injuries, maintained that he had no idea why they were attempting to pull him over that he was simply trying to haul a delivery to Grove City Ohio before making his way home. Meanwhile, the head of the Columbus Ohio Chapter of the NAACP saying that she is appalled by what she saw in this video and is calling for an investigation into the actions of that canine unit.
 
Palo Sandoval, CNN, New York.
 
CHURCH: The gun violence epidemic here in the United States has reached a grim new milestone with 400 mass shootings so far this year. That is according to the nonprofit group Gun Violence Archive. To be clear, only 204 days have passed in the year 2023. That amounts to nearly two mass shootings per day. CNN and the Archive define a mass shooting as one that injures or kills four or more people not including the shooter.
 
And that's not counting other smaller incidents of gun violence, amounting to more lost lives and heartbreak. In Chicago police reported more than 20 shooting incidents this weekend alone, killing at least six people and wounding more than 20. One of the dead is a 16-year-old boy.
 
Well, New York police are searching the home of the man suspected of at least three of the state's Gilgo Beach murders. A law enforcement source tells CNN they have searched Rex Heuermann's basement but could take two or three more days to search his attic and garage. CNN affiliate news 12 Long Island reports a canine team and ground penetrating radar was seen being used in the investigation.
 <br>[02:50:02]
 
A source tells CNN it's possible police will search the backyard to see if something was buried there.
 
Well, Florida A&amp;M University has suspended all football-related activities after a music video was filmed in the team's locker room without permission. The video features a local rapper and the sports facility along with several players wearing licensed apparel. The coach says the video contains explicit language and potentially violates branding agreements. CNN's Carolyn Manno reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
CAROLYN MANNO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: This is obviously not what any college football program wants. Just over a month away from the start of their season, right now an internal investigation is underway to determine not only who authorized the use of the school's athletic facility but also who gave the OK to use team apparel in this video that might actually violate licensing agreements currently in place with the school.
 
Florida A&amp;M University Head Football Coach Willie Simmons announced that the school has suspended all football-related activities until further notice after this unauthorized music video containing explicit language was shot inside the team's locker room. Now he said the video is not consistent with the school's core values. He added in a statement on Twitter that it is a privilege to wear the orange and green and that the school's young men have failed to live up to the standard set as a football program.
 
Simmons didn't name the musician who appeared in the video but on Friday rapper Real Boston Ritchey posted a music video showing him wearing Florida A&amp;M gear inside what certainly appears to be the team's locker room. CNN has reached out to the rapper's label for comment on the matter. The Rattlers are scheduled to open the 2023 season against the Jackson State Tigers on September 3rd.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: Women's World Cup action is underway in New Zealand where Italy and Argentina are facing off right now. Neither side has scored so far. This latest match comes after a dramatic day of play in the tournament on Sunday.
 
CNN's Don Riddell brings us the highlights.
 
DON RIDDELL, CNN INTERNATIONAL SPORTS ANCHOR: Just eight teams now of the 32 competing at the Women's World Cup are still waiting to play their opening matches. And so far, the games that we've seen have been pretty close. Is that a sign that there's now more parity in a game that has been rapidly expanding across the globe, or perhaps nerves have been playing a factor in the early action?
 
On Sunday in Wellington, South Africa were going for their first ever World Cup result and they came pretty close against Sweden who are the world's third ranked team. Hilda Magaia opened the scoring for South Africa early in the second half. But Sweden responded by pouring more players into their attack and they were awarded when Frido Rolfo's effort was deflected in for an own goal.
 
South Africa had lost all three of their previous World Cup matches. They would have settled for a point here, but it wasn't to be as Amanda Ilestedt scored a last-minute winner. The Swedes just edged it, going top in group G.
 
In Group B, the 2017 European champions in the Netherlands shaded the World Cup debutantes, Portugal by a goal to nil. Stefanie van der Gragt's first half header turned out to be the winner. Portugal only had one shot on goal throughout the entire match. The Dutch will play the USA, the defending champions next. That is a repeat of the 2019 final.
 
Also on Sunday, a massive result for the reggae girls of Jamaica who went toe to toe with one of the best teams in the world. The fifth ranked France. Jamaica's players really struggled to get into this tournament. They had to start a GoFundMe page in order to make all the ends meet and make the trip to Australia and New Zealand and they repaid everyone who believed in them with their first ever World Cup point.
 
The French team have made it to the quarterfinals in each of the last three World Cups, but they are expected to go deeper this time. But this really was a frustrating experience for them. Kadidatou Diani peppered the goal with a couple of headers, and she also had the frame of the goal laid on but they couldn't break down the Jamaica team who celebrated wildly at the final whistle celebrating a monumental performance and a massive result. Their manager put into perspective just how significant an achievement this was.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
LORNE DONALDSON, JAMAICA COACH: I would say it's the number one result we have had so far because, you know, I mean, you know, you're playing a team like France who was just fantastic and, you know, you know, it's -- to be -- to answer it I think it's the number one result I have seen. Man or woman. So, I will put it here.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 
RIDDELL: And we'll of course keep you posted with all the latest highlights and results from the Women's World Cup but for now, it's back to you.
 
CHURCH: Thanks for that.
 
Well, Formula One racing champion Max Verstappen made his rivals look like a field or Formula Two cars racing against a Formula One car. That is according to Mercedes team boss Toto Wolff. His statement comes after Verstappen scored his seventh win in a row at the Hungarian Grand Prix.
 <br>[02:55:04]
 
His latest win as teammate Sergio Perez recovered from ninth to third landed Red Bull a 12th consecutive victory.
 
American golfer Brian Harman is celebrating the first major win of his career after taking the title of the Open Championship. Harman ranked 26th in the world, showed steady nerves as he shot a one under par 70 on Sunday to hold off several higher-ranked golfers chasing him on the links at Royal Liverpool.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BRIAN HARMAN, WINNER OF 151ST OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP: I want to thank the RNA for putting together such an incredible championship. I couldn't be happier to be its champion. And to all the fans, to all the nice words and all the people back home who were rooting me on, I appreciate it so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHURCH: And this is only Harman's third victory since joining the PGA Tour in 2012. And his first in more than six years. The 36-year-old takes home a $3 million winners cut of the $16 million prize purse.
 
And baseball's Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York, two veteran players who lead their teams to World Championships and perceived these sports highest on a membership. Seven time all-star and eight- time Gold Glove winner Scott Rolen was a key player in the 2006 St. Louis Cardinals World Series championship. And five time all-star and member of the Atlanta Brave's 9090s dynasty, Fred McGriff was unanimously voted into the Hall of Fame.
 
He said he was humbled to be on the stage with more than 50 other Hall of Famers. On this stage, he said is baseball greatness.
 
Well done. And thanks for your company. I'm Rosemary Church. I will be back with more CNN NEWSROOM in just a moment. Do stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[03:00:00]