Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Pence Addresses Classified Docs Found at His Home; Inflation Gauge Shows Prices Rose at a Slower Pace Last Month; Gas Prices Surge Nationwide; Memphis Police Chief: Video is as Bad as Rodney King, If Not Worse. Aired 3:30-4p ET

Aired January 27, 2023 - 15:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[15:30:00] 
 
MIKE PENCE, FORMER VICE PRESIDENT: We alerted the National Archives. We turned them over to the FBI and soon thereafter communicated it to Congress. 
 
While I was not aware that those classified documents were in our personal residence, let me be clear. Those classified documents should not have been at my personal residence. Mistakes were made, and I take full responsibility. And I've directed by counsel to work with the National Archives, with the Department of Justice, and with the Congress to fully cooperate in any investigation. 
 
Our national security depends on the proper handling of classified and sensitive materials, and I -- I know that when errors are made, it's important that they be resolved swiftly and disclosed. And my only hope is that as the American people look at our conduct in this manner, that they see that we acted above politics, and put the national interest first. And I pledge to each and every one of you and to the American people that we will continue to do so. So help me God. 
 
ALISYN CAMEROTA, CNN HOST: Very interesting right there, you hear the former vice president talking about that for the first time and saying mistakes were made. 
 
This is also just into CNN. RNC chairwoman Ronna McDaniel has been elected to a fourth consecutive term. She fended off a strong challenge from Harmeet Dhillon a committeewoman from California and a lawyer who previously represented former President Trump. In a secret ballot just moments ago, McDaniel received 111 out of 168 votes. Dylan received 51 votes, and four ballots were cast for My Pillow CEO Mike Lindell, a 2020 election denier and Trump supporter. 
 
OK, so Gas prices nationwide are going up again. Which states are being hit hardest? That's next.
 <br>[15:35:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CAMEROTA: Cautious optimism today on Wall Street after a key measure of inflation showed some cooling. The new report comes ahead of the Fed's first meeting of the year. CNN's matt Egan joins us now to break down what it all means. So Matt, what is this marker, and how might it play into the Fed's thinking? 
 
MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Well, Alisyn, this is exactly what the Fed wants to see. Inflation is chilling out, and that's great news for everyone. Today's reports the PCE index. This is the Fed's preferred inflation metric. And it shows that prices they inched higher between November and December, up by 5 percent year over year in December. Now normally this is nothing to cheer about, right. This is about twice as hot as inflation is supposed to be, but everything is relative. 
 
And if you look, inflation is actually cooling off. Because last June we had 7 percent inflation. It has ticked down to 5 percent, and this slowdown in inflation, if it continues, this could give the Fed the cover it needs and wants to try to slow the pace of interest rate hikes at next week's meeting and maybe even pause altogether this spring. 
 
We do need to keep an eye on consumer spending though because spending dipped last month as people were dealing with inflation. Peoples a saved more money. They're setting aside extra money for a rainy day, and hopefully we get to see inflation calm down some more and consumer spending can tick-up because we need consumer spending to get this economic expansion continuing. 
 
Matt let's talk about gas prices. They're going up again. What's the story? 
 
EGAN: They are going up, but this is unusual the timing here. The national average is at $3.51 a gallon, up $0.12 in the past week, up $0.41 in the past month. It's weird to see it during the dead of winter because demand is pretty weak. Normally people are staying off the roads, but this is really not about demand. This is a supply situation. 
 
We see outages of refineries, including Colorado's only refinery. This happened last month during the winter weather, and that's why we've seen this spike across the country, almost $1 higher over the past month in Colorado, 60 cent increase in Ohio, Delaware, Georgia, Florida, all of them seeing big increases. Oil prices also gone up. 
 
The question is, how long does this last? We don't know, but GasBuddy's Patrick Dehaan, he said that wonders whether or not the springtime pickup in gas price that is we normally see gets pulled forward. That would mine in this case instead of $4 gas this May, we could see $4 gas in March -- Alisyn. 
 
CAMEROTA: OK. Matt Egan, thank you. 
 
So many people who have seen the video of the police beating of Tyre Nichols liken it to that of Rodney King. Rodney King's daughter is going to join us next.
 <br>[15:40:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
CAMEROTA: President Biden has just spoken by phone to the family of Tyre Nichols. As the city of Memphis prepares for the release of him being beaten by police on video. Five former Memphis police officers now charged with second-degree murder and kidnapping. The city's police chief says the video reminds her of Rodney King who was beaten by Los Angeles police in 1991. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DON LEMON, CNN ANCHOR: It has been said that it is reminiscent, perhaps worse than the Rodney King video. Is that your assessment? 
 
CHIEF CERELYN "CJ" DAVIS, MEMPHIS POLICE: It's my assessment. I was in law enforcement during the Rodney King incident, and -- it's, you know, very much aligned with that same type of behavior. 
 
LEMON: That it's worse? 
 
DAVIS: The sort of groupthink. I would say it's about the same, if not, worse. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[15:45:00]
 
CAMEROTA: So, I want to bring in now Laura King. She's the daughter of the late Rodney King, and founder of the Rodney King Foundation. Laura, thanks so much for being here. So many people have likened the video of Tyre Nichols to that of your dad in 1991 being beaten by the LAPD. Not everyone, but many people. I'm just wondering what this week has been like for you to hear your dad's name invoked so much. 
 
LORA KING, RODNEY KING'S DAUGHTER: You know, I often try to stay away, but then when I heard everyone just comparing, I had no choice but to face it as with all of us. It's really horrific honestly because I've read details on it and I'm sick to my stomach. I'm actually not well, and I don't think anybody in their right mind, anybody that respects humanity is OK with this. 
 
I don't -- I'm lost for words about it, and I'm just sad. I'm sad for his mother. I'm sad for his family. I'm sad for his friends. I read that he has a child. I'm not sure, but I'm sad for his son. I'm just sad for just where we are in America. We're still here. I'm in disbelief. 
 
CAMEROTA: Yes. You're not alone, and the visceral reaction you're describing being sick to your stomach, so many of us feel that way, and I've heard so many describe it like you are. What can you tell Tyre Nichols' family about what their life is going to be like when this video is made public? 
 
KING: That's the number one question I'm always asked and I'm, like, really emotional. So I'm sorry, but there's nothing -- there's nothing I can say. That is something between God's grace, God himself, and them. There's no one -- even if Martin Luther King were here today helping us, as he is in our spirit, he couldn't even help. This is something that's indescribable. Their life unfortunate. It's very unfortunate that the world will know him as a hashtag. Something I'm grateful that his family is continue in his legacy by all the good work he's doing and, you know, he's done, and, you know, skateboarding and things of that nature. I'm proud that they're representing him very well. Because this is -- it's not acceptable. It's just -- I still can't -- I'm, like, in disbelief about it. 
 
And I don't -- I don't understand why it takes that many officers for 140-pound man. There's no way anybody can explain that to me, let alone the way they beat that man. That picture, that's sickening to me. That's sickening, and to my knowledge, he was handcuffed while they were beating him. Not to say it would have been better if he was not handcuffed, but that's even worse. 
 
It's like people often wonder why people run why people run. That's why. This is why, because they're fearful of their life and they know what's to come 90 percent of the time. So, it's like well, my natural human reaction is to run because I feel like I'm going to die, and nine times out of ten, we see this happening. Imagine how many times this happens that it's not recorded, you know, it just makes me sad. 
 
And don't get me wrong. There's great officers out here. I know them. Our commander here, Ruby Flores is great. She does everything behind the scenes to make things right with us and the community and things of that nature, but one person, two people, there's a few. There's a few office officers. I can't speak for all of them, but it doesn't compare to what we're still seeing. 
 
You know, we have to do something better. Obviously, this way is not working. It's not working. The only difference between my father's situation and now is hashtags and a clearer camera. We have to do better. This is unacceptable. 
 
Yes. Lora, we really appreciate getting your perspective on this. We know this week is been hard for you and it will continue to be, I'm sure even more so when the video comes out. We're thinking of you. We really appreciate you being here. 
 
KING: Thank you. I appreciate that. I received that. Thank you so much. 
 
CAMEROTA: The family of Tyre Nichols is urging peace and calling for justice before the video is released. Of what they described as a horrific police beating. We have the latest next. 
 <br>[15:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CAMEROTA: Scottish actor Alan Cumming is returning a prestigious royal award in an effort to server his association with the, quote, toxicity of the British Empire. 14 years ago Queen Elizabeth awarded Cumming with an OBE, which the second highest ranking order of the British Empire award. But now, the actor says his opinion of the honor has changed. 
 
He explained on Instagram saying in part, quote: The Queen's death and ensuing conversations about the role of the monarchy and especially the way the British Empire profited at the expense and death of indigenous peoples across the world really opened my eyes, end quote. 
 
So, he's handed the OBE in and is now in his own words back to plain old Alan Cummings. 
 
Meanwhile, Jay leno is recovering from yet another accident. The former late-night host was in a motorcycle accident last week. In an interview with "The Las Vegas Review Journal" he said he was testing out a 1940 motorcycle when he was close-lined by a wire strung across a parking lot. Leno has a broken collarbone, two broken ribs and two cracked kneecaps. In November the comedian suffered severe burns to his face while working on an antique car. Leno says he is OK and is already back at work. 
 <br>[15:55:00]
 
Meanwhile, TJ Holmes and Amy Robach, the anchors of the third hour of ABC's "Good Morning America" will leave the network. This is according to a person familiar with the matter. The pair are in the final stages of negotiating their exits. Holmes and Robach were taken off the air after photos surfaced last year of the pair engaged in an apparent romantic relationship. In a memo at the time, ABC news execs said that pair would remain off the air pending the results of an internal review. A finalized deal for their exits is expected sometime today. 
 
OK. And "THE LEAD WITH JAKE TAPPER" starts after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)