Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: CNN International: North Korea's Food Crisis; U.S. to Announce New Military Aid Package for Ukraine; New Delhi Summit Fails to Deliver Joint Declaration; Kim Orders Increase in Food Production Amid Signs of Crisis; What's Next for Alex Murdaugh after Guilty Verdict. Aired 8-8:30a ET

Aired March 03, 2023 - 08:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[08:00:00]
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN HOST: Hello, welcome to CNN "Newsroom", I'm Max Foster in London. Just ahead, the Head of a Russian mercenary group urges Ukrainian forces to withdraw from Bakhmut saying that the city is "Almost surrounded" where we live in Eastern Ukraine.
 
Burned in just over an hour expecting the sentencing hearing for disgraced South Carolina Attorney, Alex Murdaugh, who was found guilty of murdering his wife and son, we'll take a closer look at how prosecutors won their case. And we'll have a disturbing report on North Korea where a food crisis is leading to starvation while the country's leadership focuses on military modernization.
 
The battle has been long and bloody now Russia could be on the cusp of a significant victory in one East Ukrainian town. The Head of the Russian mercenary group Wagner says his forces have the City of Bakhmut almost completely surrounded. He's appealing to Ukraine's President to withdraw from the city.
 
Meanwhile, Ukrainian reconnaissance units have been ordered to leave the city. But Ukraine still insists is holding his ground in the fight for Bakhmut and video of the control explosion of a railway bridge inside Bakhmut surfaced on social media on Friday. Along with unconfirmed reports it was a sign that Ukrainian forces were preparing to withdraw, the military denies that saying it was already unusable.
 
Also, Russia has blown up a key supply bridge to Bakhmut. Please tell CNN they hope to repair the bridge though. CNN's Alex Marquardt was in Chasiv Yar this week and reported a constant stream of military vehicles heading towards Bakhmut, and he joins us live from Eastern Ukraine. And for you this won't be a surprise what we're hearing from this mercenary group?
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: No, in fact, Max, we've been watching for the past several days Wagner forces encircling the City of Bakhmut. The Ukrainian forces in that city, now surrounded on three sides. And as you noted, the Head of Wagner, Yevgeny Prigozhin, calling on President Zelenskyy to pull his men out to save their lives, saying that they only have one or two more days until they are completely surrounded. There is no word, no sense at least for now, Max that Ukrainian Officials are going to be giving that order to withdraw. Now, as you noted, we were in Chasiv Yar yesterday that is the town just to the west of Bakhmut, just about five kilometers away, and we are on that very road.
 
That is the now the main supply route for those forces in Bakhmut. It is really the only paved road that goes to the front; we saw all kinds of armored vehicles going forward and back. Now a bridge on that road has been blown up, effectively severing off the main artery to those forces.
 
It was destroyed, we understand according to a soldier in Bakhmut by a large Russian missile. Now if Ukrainian forces want to go forward or come back or if they want to evacuate people or eventually withdraw from the city, they would have to do so either on dirt roads, or in open fields, which is very difficult.
 
Only certain vehicles can do that it would make them extremely vulnerable. Now, for now, Ukrainian forces are holding their ground it is getting much more difficult. We did speak with Ukrainian soldiers just a short distance away from Bakhmut yesterday who said that the fight for Bakhmut is so important because both sides have poured so much blood into this fight.
 
It would be a major victory for Russia if they were to take the city and then they would likely target towns like Chasiv Yar and towns throughout Eastern Ukraine next as they tried to press for a deeper into Donbas, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK, thank you so much for that from Ukraine. Ukraine is about to get more military help from the U.S. as well. The White House is expected to make a formal announcement today about another round of assistance. This is coming a week after Washington announced a $2 billion military security package and vowed to stand by Ukraine for as long as it takes. Scott McLean joining us with more on this story, Scott!
 
SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Max, look, of course we know what the Ukrainians have been looking for, for the last month or so. And that's fighter jets, and that is long range missiles. They're also going to be getting tanks in the coming months for the front lines, which surely will help the battle there but according to all of the signals that we've gotten from the White House about this so far.
 <br>[08:05:00]
 
MCLEAN: We don't have $1 figure but the expectation is that none of those things that I mentioned are going to be in this. This is much more down to the basics of what you Ukraine needs at this moment and that are a heck of a lot more ammunition for things that they already have.
 
They're trying to not make it more complicated by sending in new equipment that requires different ammunition, new training, things like that. And so they're going to be sending more ammunition. And they're also trying to make sure according to John Kirby, a National Security Official in the White House, that Ukraine has what it needs as this expected Spring Offensive sort of kicks up.
 
The United States says that thus far, they've committed $32 billion dollars in military aid to Ukraine, this includes some 200, or some 2 million rounds of ammunition 38 HIMARS systems, these artillery systems, one patriot, air defense battery 100 plus fighting vehicles, more than 30 tanks, the list goes on and on.
 
This is what's been promised, it's not actually what's been sent. And part of the problem is that the Ukrainians are actually firing more ammunition. They are firing ammunition at a rate that is several times higher, according to the NATO Secretary General than what the West can actually produce.
 
So this is obviously going to raise questions about how ready the U.S. is. How healthy the U.S. stockpiles are and other Western stockpiles? Of course, the U.S. is already ramping up production of some of these weapons, some of this ammunition, Europe is trying to follow suit, as well.
 
But look, even in the last aid package that you mentioned, the U.S. didn't even commit to sending things that were already in its own warehouses in its own stockpiles. Instead, it committed to brokering these military contracts on behalf of Ukraine to have this ammunition produced and then sent to Ukraine over a much larger span of time.
 
FOSTER: OK, Scott, thank you. Ukraine expected to be the central topic in the next few hours as well. When German Chancellor Olaf Scholz meets with President Biden at the White House for highly confidential talks the war has forced dramatic changes to Germany's Military and energy policies over the past year.
 
The latest example is Berlin's decision to supply Ukrainian forces with Leopard tanks. Kylie Atwood joins us from U.S. State Department in Washington. But he only did so - didn't he when America agreed to send tanks as well. He wants all of this to be a joint effort between the Western alliances.
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Yes, that's right. I mean, it's clear that Germany wants to be seen as moving in lockstep with other allies not getting out ahead. But this moment, today, when Chancellor Scholz will be here in Washington, visiting with President Biden at the White House does beg a moment of reflection, just because, you know, last year around this time before the Russian invasion had actually begun.
 
We also had Scholz in town, and there were a lot of doubts about how Germany was going to respond if Russia invaded Ukraine. So I think the fact that they are now even providing tanks and you know giving some types of support that folks really doubted that they would is significant.
 
And so today, what we expect from this conversation, obviously, is a focus on Ukraine and White House spokesperson for the NSC John Kirby talked about the need to discuss, you know what Ukraine needs next coordination, going ahead and doing so in person with Chairman, excuse me, Scholz and President Biden.
 
And then you also have some specific elements of this conflict that will be discussed, obviously, there's concerns about China potentially providing lethal support. We've seen warnings from both President Biden and Scholz about the fact that they do not want China to do that.
 
So there might be some coordination today in terms of what a response could look like if China goes ahead. And then also, we were, you know, expecting them to talk about how to bring an end to this war. Obviously, you know, all parties involved, NATO allies had been very supportive of Ukraine needing to fight this fight on the battlefield.
 
But they do realize that there needs to be at some point, a negotiated settlement. And Scholz did talk about security guarantees for Ukraine earlier this week. He didn't say what those could look like but he said he's discussing those with allies. And so that's an important aspect for us to watch. What could those security guarantees that NATO allies could provide Ukraine as part of a negotiated settlement actually look like?
 
FOSTER: OK, Kylie Atwood in Washington. Thank you. That visit comes on the heels of a key meeting of diplomats on the sidelines of the G20 in India. That's where the U.S. Secretary of State said the global support for Ukraine after Russia's invasion should send a powerful message to would be aggressors everywhere.
 
Antony Blinken met with Foreign Ministers from Australia, India and Japan, then collectively as the quad where Ukraine was high on the agenda. Ultimately, the meeting ended without a new joint communique though. Let's bring in Vedika Sud in New Delhi and that was a fail this meeting wasn't it? It does show some disunity.
 <br>[08:10:00]
 
VEDIKA SUD, CNN REPORTER: Of course the G20 meeting there was no consensus because the member nations could not decide or come together on Ukraine which even happened last week, Max, that was during the Finance Ministers meet for the G20 summit ahead of the big one in September.
 
But today, a day after the G20 Summit, Antony Blinken met with members of the co-ordinations, the Foreign Ministers from the three other countries that you've mentioned this came a day after the brief but highly significant meet with Lavrov.
 
Now issuing a statement and this was a joint statement by the co- ordinations referencing Ukraine, the foreign nations said in that joint statement, that the threat to use nuclear weapons is inadmissible. And they made that very strong statement through the joint statement. And just later in the day, just after that coordinating Antony Blinken slammed Russia, here's what he had to say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: If we allow with impunity, Russia to do what it's doing in Ukraine, then that's a message to would be aggressors everywhere, that they may be able to get away with it too.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD: A strong message from Blinken, there for Russia and later again, during the same day, which is Friday, you had Lavrov hitting back at the United States of America. Here's what Lavrov had to say, while he was in New Delhi.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SERGEY LAVROV, RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER: You know, the war, which we are trying to stop and which was launched against us using Ukraine. Ukrainian people, of course, it influenced the policy of Russia.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SUD: So Lavrov was at an event in New Delhi earlier in the day, you had the coordination members also, at the same event; you did hear the audience laugh out there. And that's because Lavrov was trying to say or implicate here, that are the indicator that it's the U.S. and the West of the aggressor, and Russia is the victim when it comes to the war in Ukraine.
 
And that was the response from the audience here in New Delhi. However, the big picture the big takeaway as far as the G20 summit here in Delhi on Thursday's concern, is that there was no consensus, no joint statement, and it's pretty clear now, Max that the divide over Ukraine is only getting sharper unfortunately, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK, Vedika Sud in New Delhi, thank you for bringing us that. And no signature, no explanation China acknowledged there are differing views on Ukraine amongst G20 members but stopped short of explaining his reasons for not signing a joint statement. The U.S. has accused China of considering sending lethal aids to Russia, something Beijing has denied.
 
China's Foreign Ministry insisted that G20 is an economic forum, not a security one. Let's get the perspective from Asia, Marc Stewart in Tokyo. And it really does show the tensions there and concerns really in the West that China will supply those lethal weapons.
 
MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Indeed, Max, and let's take a moment to understand the positioning of China. China is trying to portray itself as this neutral peace broker concerning this conflict in Ukraine and made a statement today it doesn't want to do anything to add fuel to fire kind of implied criticism to the west.
 
So it is not supporting a Foreign Minister statement from that G20 summit again, no specifics asked why? It made remarks today, the government leaders at least made remarks today saying that the G20 should focus more on economic issues and not so much on security ones. Take a listen to a briefing earlier today from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAO NING, CHINA'S FOREIGN MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON: We have also noticed that G20 members have different views on the Ukraine crisis. We hope that the G20 members will respect each other's concerns and send the signal of solidarity and cooperation instead of division and mutual accusation.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
STEWART: So we have this position from China, from Beijing kind of picking and choosing what it will support. China's Foreign Minister did make a point of saying today it will support a measure that it feels is conducive to peace and if it does seek sacrifice something to its satisfaction. It certainly would put the wheels in motion, Max, to support it.
 
FOSTER: OK, Marc Stewart, appreciate your time, thank you. The verdict is in a high profile case in South Carolina and is guilty.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Justice was done today. It doesn't matter who your family is? It doesn't matter how much money you have or people think you have? If you break the law, if you murder, then justice will be done in South Carolina.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[08:15:00]
 
FOSTER: Sentencing begins next hour for disgraced lawyer Alex Murdaugh convicted of killing his wife and son. A closer look at how the prosecution won his case coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: There warnings about an impending food crisis in North Korea. State media reports that Leader Kim Jong-Un has ordered an expansion of farmland to ramp up food production. Some experts say mismanagement and the regime's isolation have contributed to the problem. CNN's Paula Hancocks reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Concerns about North Korea's food crisis are growing. Reports from multiple sources say deaths due to starvation unlikely.
 
LUCAS RENGIFO-KELLER, THE PETERSON INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS: Probably its worst point since the famine in the 1990s, which killed 3 to 5 percent of the population.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Attention is being paid at the very top. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un held a Workers Party meeting this week calling for a fundamental change in farming and state economic plans. But many say it is his regime its chronic mismanagement and isolation that has caused this crisis.
 
LINA YOON, HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH: We're really talking about three years of no imports of fertilizer. There have been no imports of tools or components to fix the outdated machinery that they have.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): An extensive shutdown of borders due to the COVID pandemic meant almost no food or aid was getting into the country. Only in recent months as minimal trade restarted with China.
 
South Korean Officials said last month they believe deaths from starvation are occurring in certain areas, though provided no evidence. Its Rural Development Agency estimates that the North's food production dropped almost 4 percent last year from the year before.
 
RENGIFO-KELLER: Food has dipped below the amount needed to satisfy the minimum human needs. So as it stands by that measure, even if you distributed food perfectly equally, which is totally inconceivable. You would have hunger related deaths.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Speaking to South Korea's Foreign Minister last week, he said Pyongyang has to decide to help its own people.
 
PARK JIN, SOUTH KOREAN FOREIGN MINISTER: The only way that North Korea can get out of this trouble is to come back to the dialogue table and accept our humanitarian offer to the north and make a better choice for the future.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): The regime's focus remains on its nuclear and missile program. Seoul's Ministry of Unification says if Pyongyang had used the money spent on launching missiles last year for food, it could have bought 1 million tons more than enough to cover the annual food shortage but that focus is unlikely to shift.
 
YOON: As the time goes on, the capacity for North Koreans to endure hardship becomes harder and harder.
 <br>[08:20:00]
 
YOON: The resilience you know runs up in there you know there's resources also decreased.
 
HANCOCKS (voice over): Paula Hancocks CNN, Seoul.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: As we expect the sentencing hearing a Former South Carolina Attorney Alex Murdaugh, who was found guilty of murdering his wife and son. We'll take a closer look at how prosecutors actually won their case that is coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: A jury in South Carolina is found South Carolina Attorney Alex Murdaugh guilty of the murder his wife and son. This Murdaugh's reaction whilst the verdict was being read out to him.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Guilty verdict, signed by - for lady, 3 to 23.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: --how one's reacting to that lack of reaction, if you like an extraordinary combination really and this child has gripped many parts of the United States is only remaining son Buster Murdaugh, can be seen wiping away tears me while away from his eyes as he listened in from the courtroom.
 
The Prosecutors have argued that Murdaugh was the only person who had the motive means and opportunity to kill his family. Throughout the trial they also portrayed Murdaugh as a serial liar for being dishonest with investigators there is the former family together this defense team attributes his behavior to drug addiction.
 
Murdaugh's sentencing will occur in just over an hour. So what will that sentence be? Prosecutors have indicated they will seek life in prison without the possibility of parole. Let's bring in CNN's Dianne Gallagher who's been following this trial all along.
 
She joins us from Walterboro in South Carolina. So it's really the final moment here. I gather a death sentence would have been the possibility but prosecutors aren't arguing for that.
 
DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That's right Max. So South Carolina does have the death penalty but the Attorney General's office early on said that they were not seeking the death penalty in this case. So the sentence today will be the final in the murder charges.
 
And now the murder conviction against Alex Murdaugh of course he faces some 90 plus other charges related to financial misdeeds and other crimes he's accused of. But when that verdict came down yesterday we looking at Alex Murdaugh as he listened to the jury all 12 of them unanimously less than three hours, worth of deliberation, saying guilty on all four charges.
 
Two murder charges, one for his wife, Maggie, one for his Paul son and two weapons charges to go with each of those murder charges. He just sorts of stone faced he shook a little bit and just stared off he briefly mouth something to his only surviving son Buster.
 
And then he was taken back into custody this morning. Judge Clifton Newman will listen to victim impact statements who will listen to the attorneys and then he will come to his decision. Alex Murdaugh faces a minimum of 30 years in prison a maximum of life in prison without the possibility of parole for those charges.
 
A lot is going to factor into that Max, to be honest, we're not exactly sure how this is going to look in about an hour or so because a lot of the defendants, witnesses for victim impact statements may be the same as the victims because this is a family here.
 <br>[08:25:00] GALLAGHER: There only surviving son Buster, he lost his mother, he lost his brother his father could be going to prison for the rest of his life for killing his family and so we're not sure who we're going to hear from at this point. But Alex Murdaugh will be going to prison here in South Carolina.
 
He has additional trials that will eventually come up. There was a point made by the defense, even during the trial that it was likely Alex Murdaugh was going to spend the rest of his life in prison, even if he wasn't convicted on these charges, because he admitted to stealing and lying so many times on the stand in his attempt to clear his name of these murder charges.
 
In the end the juror told ABC News that it actually only took about 45 minutes for all of them to come to an agreement on that guilty verdict and said that it was that video we talked about this yesterday that video that was found on Paul's phone more than six months after he was murdered.
 
That pleased his father because his voice was identified in the background. At the scene of the crime minutes before the state says Paul and Maggie were murdered. It was poignant to me because the sister of Maggie Murdaugh said that Paul was a little detective. He had been going around finding pills confronting his father about his drug addiction for some time for years, even Alex Murdaugh called him a little detective.
 
Other people throughout this trial did and it was evidence that was found on a video that Paul recorded that maybe never would have seen the light of day if it wasn't for the Secret Service eventually getting into that phone that convinced that juror that Alex Murdaugh was guilty.
 
Now the defense said he simply didn't have enough time to commit these murders that you can be a liar, you can be a thief and that doesn't mean you killed your family but obviously the jury did not believe that, Max.
 
FOSTER: OK Dianne thank you. Thank - access to the phone. Appreciate you bringing us that we will be bringing you all of the updates as they come in with Dianne there outside the courthouse. Thank you for joining me here on CNN "Newsroom", I'm Max Foster in London. "World Sport" with Amanda is up next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)