Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Residents in Maine Still Sheltering in Place; Remembering Victims in Maine; Mayor Carl L. Sheline is Interviewed about the Maine Manhunt; Suspect's Phone Found. Aired 9-9:30a ET

Aired October 27, 2023 - 09:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:00:43] 
 
JOHN BERMAN, CNN ANCHOR: I'm John Berman in Lewiston, Maine, where we just learned authorities have recovered a cell phone belonging to the man suspected of killing 18 people here. He is on the run right now with shelter in place orders for thousands.
 
And this morning we're getting new information about the victims. So many beautiful lives lost. 
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR: I'm Sara Sidner in Tel Aviv, Israel, where military officials say they are preparing for the next stage in the war against Hamas. Israeli troops carrying out target raids in Gaza for a second day in a row. 
 
Kate BOLDUAN, CNN ANCHOR: And I am Kate Bolduan in New York. President Joe Biden now has a new primary challenger today. Democratic Congressman Dean Phillips, a long shot for sure, but the most credible threat yet from inside the Democratic Party. 
 
This is CNN NEWS CENTRAL.
 
BERMAN: All right, happening now, we just learned that there will be a news conference one hour from now here in Lewiston for the very latest on the manhunt for mass shooting suspect Robert Card, who is still very much at large today. We learned a short time ago that authorities recovered a cell phone and also a note that were believed to be written by and belonging to Card. 
 
It's been 38 hours since 18 people were murdered here in Lewiston, Maine, and new details about the suspect are emerging. As I said, that cell phone, that note, no details in the note describing a motive. Still, it could be important to the investigation. 
 
The manhunt spanning a couple counties, many towns. Shelter in place orders for 700 square miles. A huge area now with thousands and thousands of people told to safeguard their homes and safeguard their cars. 
 
We are learning more about the victims. New this morning, we just learned the identities of two more, Bill Young and his 14-year-old son, Aaron. They were killed. 
 
Let's get the latest on the shelter in place orders, and the manhunt. Let's go to Omar Jiminez. By the way, Omar outside the bowling alley where the shootings began. I'm outside the bar where the shooter then moved and killed more people ten minutes later. 
 
Omar, what are you learning this morning? 
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So, this morning, I mean, this is day two. The sun is now up and this suspect is nowhere to be found. And it's set - it's created a bit of an unease here in the community. You go around, you talk to people and it's -- it's not like they have completely stopped their lives all together, but they also aren't taking any unnecessary risks here. Those shelter in place orders cover this county and the county over as well. 
 
And when you talk about what we're looking forward to as far as the manhunt goes, we know that searches have resumed in the Bowdoin area, which is not too far from here, but is also where some of the suspect's last known addresses were. It was around his house, his last-known address, last night where FBI and other officials, as you hear fire trucks going by, hopefully unrelated, but last night it was there outside the suspect's last known address that we saw FBI and other law enforcement over a loud speaker, with a spotlight on the house, saying, "come out with your hands up." It ended up being that he wasn't there. With state police saying that that's more just standard procedure when serving a warrant. 
 
But, obviously, people in the neighborhood and beyond were concerned and interested to see if maybe that's where this manhunt would end. It did not. And so we continue into this day. 
 
Schools remain closed, as well. And I know you mentioned a press conference coming up in just about an hour. But everybody will be watching to see if they have any progress that will perhaps allay some of the fears that people have had in this community. 
 
And I mentioned the shelter in place orders are -- have been out. At least last night people were really listening to those. You drove through town. You couldn't find a place that was open. Places that usually would be packed on a Thursday night were completely empty. 
 <br>[09:05:03]
 
Even at the hotel, where we were staying when we first got here, just to give you a sense of how people have been dealing with this, we tried to check in late at night. We had to hold our IDs up against the glass door of the window because, one, he didn't know who we actually were showing up at that time. And then when he came to let us in, he still was hiding behind cover, obviously assuming that we could have been people that were there with firearms. 
 
So, it is not an easy time for a lot of the people here. It is a very stressful time. And they're hoping that at least in this press conference, or at least sometime soon, they can get a good update from police that this suspect is in custody. 
 
BERMAN: Yes, again, one hour from now, a little bit less than an hour, will be our first update in nearly 24 hours. A lot of questions to ask about where things stand. Obviously, we'll bring you that news conference when it happens live. 
 
Omar Jiminez, thank you very much. 
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Absolutely. 
 
While the search for Robert Card continues, we are also learning more about the lives lost Wednesday night, including a father and his 14- year-old son. According to "Reuters," their names are Bill and Aaron Young. They were together at the bowling alley when this tragedy unfolded. A father and son. 
 
And then there is Arthur "Artie" Strout. He was at Schemengees Wednesday night. He was there with his father. His dad left the restaurant just ten minutes before the shooting began. Artie's dad says his son is now survived by five children. 
 
Also at the restaurant was 39-year-old Peyton Brewer-Ross. His brother tells CNN that Peyton loved being a dad more than anything else. His daughter, Elle, we've learned, has just turned two years old. 
 
Thirty-four-year-old Tommy Conrad was a manager at the bowling alley. He is also a father. And we're told he is survived by his nine-year- old daughter. 
 
So many parents, so many families torn apart by this senseless violence. 
 
I want to bring in Jason Carroll now who's learning more about some of the other victims. And it's such a long list of people. And it's so many beautiful lives, Jason. 
 
JASON CARROLL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Eighteen victims, 18 lives, 18 different stories, right? I mean it's becoming more and more clear, Kate, as we speak to some of the family members that there were so many who were there, who fought for their lives and tried to save the lives of other people. 
 
I want to talk about Joseph Walker, for example. He was a manager at that bar. He tried to stop the gunman with a butcher life. This according to his father who spoke to CNN just within the past hour or so. He was able to talk about forgiveness and also his son's heroic actions. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LEROY WALKER, SR., SON JOSEPH WAS KILLED IN MAINE MASS SHOOTING: If this person was at the time in his right mind, I believe he would have been a loving person, just like we are. Something that went wrong. And I just can't -- you can't run around this world hating people. If you do, these kind of things will happen more and more. It may be individual things that happen, but if you hate, and the hate drives you crazy, you're going to hurt people. (END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CARROLL: Incredible. 
 
I also want to talk about another one of the victims. Tricia Asselin. She worked parttime at the bowling alley. She ran to the counter apparently at one point and tried to call 911 when the shooter took her life. Her sister was also at the bowling alley at the same time. She actually managed to escape. Here's what she said about what happened. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TONI ASSELIN, WITNESSED SHOOTING IN BOWLING ALLEY, HER RELATIVE WAS KILLED: I saw someone get shot. And I saw (INAUDIBLE), like blood splattered everywhere. And they just fell off their chair and they weren't moving. 
 
TAMMY ASSELIN, WITNESSED SHOOTING IN BOWLING ALLEY, HER RELATIVE AS KILLED: We got a table to flip over and we had a booth in that corner that we used. And the whole time I'm thinking, we're sitting ducks. 
 
Any minute I was waiting to see his face come around that corner. And that was the most daunting part because I'm laying there on my back face - you know, on my back, laying flat. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CARROLL: It's just one painful story after another. 
 
I also want to mention Bryan MacFarlane. I spoke to his sister last night. She is deaf. Bryan was deaf as well. And he was a big part of the deaf community. And, in fact, members of the local deaf community would come there. And they would gather on Wednesdays to participate in a corn hole tournament for the deaf community. His life was taken last night. 
 
Also want to mention Michael Deslauriers II. 
 <br>[09:10:03]
 
His father, we just found out this morning, says that his son and his friend were both killed. And, Kate, his father says that they were killed trying to protect women and children. He said the following. He said, "they made sure their wives and several young children were under cover when they charged the shooter." 
 
So, there's so many stories of survival. So many stories of sadness. And what's most difficult at this point -- so many difficult things for this family -
 
BOLDUAN: Yes.
 
CARROLL: But especially difficult, it's so hard for these families to mourn because the shooter is still out there. BOLDUAN: Well, that's 100 percent right. But what I also am starting
 
 to hear, Jason, is that people -- there's so much - there have been so - there are so many mass shootings in America that people very clearly know that they have to - they have to stand up. They know that if they don't stand up to the shooter, the police can't get there in time. It's what - it's like the sense that you get is, they had to be courageous, they had to fight for their lives, even if they knew that they were going to lose them -
 
CARROLL: Right.
 
BOLDUAN: To protect anybody is what I feel like I'm hearing now, conditioned to know how to handle these.
 
Thank you so much, Jason. 
 
CARROLL: Thank you, Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Let's get back to John Berman. 
 
John.
 
BERMAN: Yes, you know, so many beautiful lives lost. And just to hear Jason describe it, you know, Schemengees Bar, which is right behind me, Wednesday night was known as corn hole night for the deaf community. Just think about that. 
 
With me now is the mayor of Lewiston, Carl Sheline. 
 
Mr. Mayor, thank you so much for joining us. 
 
We did just learn there will be a news conference now in less than an hour here in Lewiston. Do you have any information about what we might learn then? 
 
MAYOR CARL L. SHELINE, LEWISTON, MAINE: I think we're going to hear some updates. But beyond that I cannot say anything. 
 
BERMAN: Updates on the manhunt? 
 
SHELINE: I believe so. 
 
BERMAN: OK, Mayor. 
 
Can you give us an update on the current shelter in place order, which is still in effect here in Lewiston and surrounding communities? What do you want residents to be doing today? 
 
SHELINE: Yes, you're right, the shelter in place order is still in effect. And I urge residents to shelter in place and stay at home as much as possible, especially while the police are - police and law enforcement are trying to find and - 
 
BERMAN: Yes, as much as possible.
 
SHELINE: Sorry, there's a little bit of a delay. Go ahead. BERMAN: Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Mayor. I was just say there is - there is a delay - I was just saying, today, driving around a little bit this morning, the businesses are still closed. But I will say, there are a lot more cars on the roads and people seem to be going about their business a little bit more. Is that something of concern to you? 
 
SHELINE: You know, I understand that -- you know, I've spoken with many residents and they have urgent needs. You know, parents need formula for - for their children - for their baby, and so on and so forth. So, I completely understand if someone needs to head out to get something that they need. 
 
BERMAN: It's been some 38 hours since this shooting took place and the manhunt's been on and this shelter in place order has been in effect. How much longer do you think realistically you could keep a shelter in place order in effect, even if the suspect is not located? 
 
SHELINE: That's a great question. I'm hoping - you know we have literally hundreds of law enforcement personnel here in Maine looking for - looking for the suspect and trying to apprehend him. And I trust that they will do so very soon. 
 
BERMAN: You know, Mayor, I was struck, my colleagues Kate Bolduan and Jason Carroll were just talking about some of the beautiful lives lost here. And I'm just down the street from the bar. And Wednesday night was known as corn hole night for the deaf community. And it seems ever more possible and likely that some of the victims were part of that community. Can you just talk to me about that group of people here in Lewiston? 
 
SHELINE: Like many residents, I am certainly finding about stories as they are - as they are being reported. You know, and what I've heard so far is not surprising. You know, Lewiston -- people from Lewiston are strong and determined and fearless. And I've heard some of the courageous stories that, you know, have come out after - after, you know, what happened on Wednesday -- you know, the tragic - you know, the tragic and senseless violence on Wednesday night. And - and I know that we will get through this. 
 
BERMAN: And, Mayor, I just want you to tell people about Lewiston for a second here because it's such a rich community, historically, and now what do you want people to know about this place? 
 <br>[09:15:11]
 
SHELINE: Lewiston -- I love Lewiston. Lewiston is a beautiful city with beautiful people. We have great businesses here. And - and I'm - and I'm excited about our future. 
 
Lewiston is a very safe city. I understand what happened last night is certainly -- you know, it's - it's surreal for it to be happening here. But Lewiston is strong. Lewiston is -- we have grit and I have no doubt that we will be OK. 
 
BERMAN: All right. Mr. Mayor, Carl Sheline, before I let you go, it is still safe to say this manhunt is still underway, yes? SHELINE: Absolutely. 
 
BERMAN: OK. Mayor Carl Sheline, thank you for being with us. We're thinking about you and we're thinking about your community. 
 
Kate.
 
BOLDUAN: Absolutely he says that manhunt is underway. We're going to get back to John. There's a lot of moving parts around this manhunt today, including this, as John was talking about, a cell phone recovered from the suspected killer. A note as well. This new reporting coming in about the manhunt for Robert Card. Is this a lead now? We've got more coming in. That's next. 
 
We are also live in Tel Aviv as the IDF says it conducted targeted raids inside Gaza for a second night, and a Hamas rocket just hit in southern Tel Aviv this morning. Sara Sidner is on the ground. We'll head there for the latest. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:20:42]
 
BOLDUAN: Right now law enforcement at every level, state, local, federal, are still searching for the gunman in what is now the worst mass shooting ever in Maine. The hunt for Robert Card has left the state paralyzed. Schools and businesses closed down again today. Multiple communities under shelter in place orders for a second day. 
 
And we also now have new reporting just in from our colleague Evan Perez that investigators have recovered a cell phone that belonged to Card, as well as a note that he left behind. 
 
Joining us now, CNN chief law enforcement and intelligence analyst John Miller, and Casey Jordan, criminologist and behavioral analyst. 
 
Thank you, guys, both.
 
John, this cell phone found, a note left behind, but it does not explain a motive according to Evan's sources. What does that add to this, help or complicate? 
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: Well, the fact that they recovered a cell phone, and the fact that there was a note are both indicators of preplanning. Now, most active shooters have a planning arc. This is just the statistics across the genre, but have a planning arc of three and a half weeks. Placing a note means he knew what he was going to do before he got ready and just went out that night to do it. Leaving the phone behind tells us more, which is, he knows that's a way that people can be tracked. If he left it behind and he's a planner, it means he's obtained another one, maybe a burner, to account for that. 
 
And, you know, that raises the question, is his plan to go near or far, or is there something else that he has planned? 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. It adds - it just adds - it raises more questions is what it obviously does as - as part of this. 
 
There are now -- we were talking in the -- before the commercial break about the 18 people, we're learning more about some of them. This also means, for small communities, there are 18 funerals that will now need to be planned, which is a real risk with the killer on the loose still. What are you hearing about this? Are they starting to talk about this? 
 
MILLER: I mean that is a complicating factor, but also a necessary factor for the families and the community, which means, 18 funerals that are going to happen in fairly close together timeframe, in a fairly small community, means for police, if he's not in custody, it also means securing 18 funerals, which is going to be, you know, one more thing that they have to think about. 
 
BOLDUAN: Absolutely right. 
 
Casey, some of John's reporting has been that there is a theory that they're working with, a leading theory behind the -- why the two locations were picked for these mass shootings potentially. They see links between these two locations are places that Card and his long- time girlfriend, now ex-girlfriend, had frequented together. If that is a motivation behind choosing these locations, what does it say to you about this killer? 
 
CASEY JORDAN, CRIMINOLOGIST AND BEHAVIORAL ANALYST: Well, we don't think that that was random. And, in fact, when this first happened, you know, I was conjecturing, what sort of episode could have been the tipping point that caused this to happen? And the two big things that usually occur are the loss of a job or the breakup of a relationship. 
 
So, when we learned that he had broken up with his long-time girlfriend relatively recently, and that the two of them had both frequented the bar and the bowling alley, and even more telling that he may have believed she was at one or the other of those locations.
 
BOLDUAN: Yes.
 
JORDAN: Apparently she may have signed up for a tournament at the bar, perhaps wasn't there, so he went on to the bowling alley. This really shows that what he's doing in that moment of what I would guess is decompensation. He's trying to destroy the bad memories of the broken relationship. 
 
I don't think he was trying to target anyone specifically at those locations. But, you know, we have seen this before. In 1990, you know, a revenge lover set the Happy Land Social Club on fire trying to kill his ex-girlfriend. More than that, I think the profile that was really fitting more of a person who's a pseudo commando but also on a mission. The note to me, Kate, is the most telling thing at this point. We don't know the content. 
 <br>[09:25:01]
 
But we do know from law enforcement sources that it's phrased as a suicide note. That it was rambling. That it was addressed to his son and included things like bank account information, which would indicate that he really doesn't plan to live through this manhunt. And that makes him extremely dangerous if the police close in. 
 
BOLDUAN: Yes. CNN is still working on confirming some of the details that you're talking about in that note. We need to learn more about that. We do have a press conference coming up at 10:00 a.m. where we could learn more of that.
 
I did want to also ask you, mass shootings, when you're -- in terms of the gunman, often end with the gunman killing themselves, killed in a confrontation with police. What does this scenario, this guy fleeing, maybe, likely having planned an escape, what does this say to you about this person? 
 
JORDAN: Yes, that is true, Kate. About 50 percent of these situations end in suicide or what we call, you know, suicide by cop. Usually that happens, though, right at the scene, within hours of the mass murder, they have the suspect in their sights and there's -- they close in. And, you know, the person decides to take their own life. And then sometimes they are taking alive. But the more that time passes, the more likely this person is not going to be taken alive. If we never have an answer, it will raise the question of whether he went somewhere and actually committed suicide in a place where we would never find his body. So, there's a lot of mystery going on here.
 
I think we're just going to have to wait until we have some clues. But I guarantee you, all of the law enforcement, they're taking this beyond seriously. They are - they are pursuing every possible lead. I personally don't think he's anywhere in the area at this point. I do think that he's escaped. I think Canada's a very good possibility. But you can be very sure, no one's going to rest until they find some answers. 
 
BOLDUAN: That seems very clear.
 
Casey, thank you so much.
 
John, thank you, as always.
 
CASEY: Thank you.
 
BOLDUAN: Coming up for us, we also have this just into CNN. We are learning that there has been what is being described as significant progress on negotiations to get hostages released. Hostages who were taken by Hamas terrorists. We have the very latest on that coming up.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)