Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Beloved Singer Tony Bennett Dead At 96; Nebraska Teen Sentenced Following Illegal Abortion; U.S. To Take On Vietnam In Quest For World Cup 3-Peat; Margot Robbie & America Ferrera On Creating "Barbie," Which Is Expected To Boost Ailing Box Office. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired July 21, 2023 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:30:00]
 
BRIAN BALTHAZAR, ENTERTAINMENT JOURNALIST: And then later I worked on a segment with him and Lady Gaga. And both times he was genuine, warm, sincere, kind. All of the things that come across in his interviews, and his performances. He was all of those things. 
 
I think that's why so many people feel so deeply about this loss. 
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: Yes. We look at him, he brings joy. And I think that is what comes out so much in his music. 
 
And he also, though, as we remember him, we remember him as someone who is on the right side of history, right? He supported the civil rights movement. He marched from Selma to Montgomery with MLK in 1965.
 
When he was in the Army during World War II, he was actually demoted after he ate with a black soldier because the Army at that point was still a few years from being integrated. 
 
These are also things that we can remember Tony Bennett for. 
 
BALTHAZAR: Absolutely. And it was Pearl Bailey, who in 1949, gave him his break, asking him to perform in a review with her at a Greenwich Club. 
 
That is something that, on the right side of history that you refer to, carried through his life. It was a genuine, authentic, sincere part of who he was and is remembered by. 
 
And so, yes, I think it's important to remember who he was as a person and the talent match. That's a wonderful thing. 
 
KEILAR: He was officially diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in 2016. A lot of people were not aware of this. Maybe only those close to him because he kept performing.
 
Which really underscored his love but also his ability, I think, to carry on through song even when maybe he couldn't in other ways connect. 
 
BALTHAZAR: Yes. In 2015, I worked on a show where we did a segment with he and Lady Gaga. And Lady Gaga -- you could see then, it was a year before the diagnosis, that she was very nurturing and protective of him in that moment. 
 
And we've seen how music really resonates with people with Alzheimer's and keeps them going, keeps longevity going, and brings them back in many ways. I think that is a key to the longevity of his career. 
 
During the later years, he was the oldest living artist to have a top- 10 album. I think his love of music carried him through to the very end. 
 
KEILAR: You mentioned spending time with him. What was -- what was that like? Is there a memory from that time you were able to spend with him that is something that is sort of standing out to you today? 
 
BALTHAZAR: Well, first of all, awe. I think being in the business that we're in, it's easy to kind of lose your star-struck-ness, but you are starstruck around Tony Bennett. 
 
But it was really just his kindness, his genuine nature. And his relationship with his wife. It was very, very loving and nurturing. And it was just really wonderful to be around him and feel like you were experiencing the real Tony Bennett. 
 
And it was like -- they say don't meet your heroes because you'll be disappointed? To meet a hero and be doubled thrilled about it, that's something I'll remember forever. 
 
KEILAR: That's amazing to hear.
 
Thank you so much for sharing that with us. It is incredibly meaningful on this day as we say good-bye to a legend, Brian. Thank you. 
 
BALTHAZAR: Thank you. 
 
KEILAR: Boris?
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Kickoff is just hours away for the U.S. Women's national team in New Zealand. They're trying to accomplish something that has never been done. We have the latest out of the World Cup when we come back. 
 
And also ahead, the Department of Transportation is now investigating that Delta Airlines ground delay in triple-digit temperatures. Details on that when we come back. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:37:46]
 
SANCHEZ: A 19-year-old accused of having an illegal abortion in Nebraska and disposing of the fetus has been sentenced to three months in jail and two years' probation. 
 
Court documents says that Celeste Burgess violated the state's provision of abortion after 20 weeks. 
 
CNN's Adrienne Broaddus is on the story for us. 
 
So, Adrienne, what are the details? 
 
ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN REPORTER: Well, let's start with what authorities are saying. They are saying Facebook messages between Celeste and her mother established the two discussed terminating this pregnancy and using abortion pills and, quote, @burning the evidence.@ 
 
That's not all court documents show. Police also claim the body of the fetus, which, as you know, was exhumed, appeared to have injuries indicating it may have been burned after this pregnancy was terminated. 
 
The teen was 17 at the time. And as you mentioned, she has been sentenced to serve 90 days in jail. 
 
We have images of her there in the courtroom crying as she was escorted out following that hearing. 
 
Earlier this year, the governor signed a bill into law that bans most abortions in the state after 12 weeks. Now there are some exceptions, including sexual assault, incest, and, of course, medical emergencies -- Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: Adrienne, what about the teen's mom? What happens now to her? 
 
BROADDUS: They're talking about Jessica Burgess, she's 42. Her mom faced some of the same charges that her daughter did, plus some additional felony counts. 
 
She did engage in a plea bargain earlier this month. And under that plea bargain, she pleaded guilty to two felonies. But some of the other charges that were placed on her mother's record were dismissed -- Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: Adrienne Broaddus, thank you so much for walking us through those details. 
 
Brianna?
 
KEILAR: Now to some of the other headlines that we are watching this hour. 
 
A total of 28 bodies have been recovered from secret graves in a Mexican town along the U.S. border. These are graves that were discovered in Reynoso by a group that helps families find missing loved ones. Forensic experts will now be turning the focus to identifying the bodies. 
 <br>[14:40:08]
 
Also, the U.S. Department of Transportation is now investigating passengers who are being left a -- passengers who were left aboard a delayed Delta Airliner in triple-digit temperatures. 
 
It taxied around the Las Vegas airport for nearly 90 minutes. The stifling heat aboard the plane left at least one person needing medical attention. Delta says it's cooperating with the investigation. 
 
And this is the day that south Florida soccer fans have been waiting for. Superstar Lionel Messi makes his Inter Miami debut in the opening match of the league's cup. 
 
The move to Inter Miami has been one of the hottest topics throughout the sport. Boris talks about it, that's how I know. Messi considered to be one of the greatest soccer players of all time. 
 
But then you knew that, Boris. 
 
SANCHEZ: He is the GOAT. (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE) Let's go, Inter Miami. 
 
Anyway, the U.S. women's soccer team, the national team, today, they begin their quest to make history and to become the first team ever to win a World Cup three-peat. 
 
CNN's Patrick Snell joins us now to preview the game. 
 
So, Patrick, there is a lot of pressure on this U.S. team. 
 
PATRICK SNELL, CNN "WORLD SPORT" ANCHOR: Yes, no pressure, Boris, you said it there. They're trying to become the first team in history, men's or women's, to win a third straight World Cup. Incredible stuff. 
 
So much focus, so much pressure -- I think that's the right word here -- on the U.S. women's national team, trying to do, as I say, what no other nation has done before. 
 
Incredible if they can do that. It would be an amazing achievement. They're still favorites to win the whole tournament again, in my book. That's where the pressure comes. 
 
I will say keep an eye on other nations, like England and the Lionesses, Japan, former champions, as well, France, the list goes on. The Netherlands, too. 
 
Now America going for a fifth World Cup overall. They got this massively talented squalid squad. The young stars, like Trinity Rodman and Smith, sure to make a big impact.
 
But you know, we all know, so much of the focus will be on the most high-profile player, namely Meghan Rapinoe. The 38-year-old, the truly iconic figure when it comes to making a huge impact on and off the field over the years. 
 
In the build-up to the tournament, she would announce she's retiring from football at the end of this season. Of course, big, big talking point ahead of this game. Will she get her landmark and 200th international cap later on? 
 
Let's hear from Meghan herself. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MEGHAN RAPINOE, U.S. WOMEN'S SOCCER PLAYER: That feeling doesn't change. It's so difficult to make it to a World Cup. It's so difficult to make our team, much less make it to the World Cup. 
 
So always feels like something that's so hard-earned, which I think makes you appreciate it so much. 
 
I mean, I think obviously from a zoomed-out perspective, you know, I'm feeling all the feels and knowing this will be my last World Cup and, you know, my final season, just in general, feeling really grateful to be here. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SNELL: The iconic Meghan Rapinoe. 
 
We know what happens in the sport of football. If the side ranked 32nd in the world, Vietnam with their head coach describing their opening game against the two-time defending champs USA calling it like a mountain to climb. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAI DUE CHUNG, VIETNAM COACH (through translation): We are far behind the U.S. team. Frankly, we come here not just for tourism, we are here to play, and we have a very, very high spirit.
 
But the U.S. is a very strong team. It is like a mountain we must climb. But it doesn't mean that we will give up. 
 
We will have very suitable tactics so that we can minimize conceding goals, and we can minimize any injuries. And if we can score a goal, then it would be great. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SNELL: Fascinating to see how it plays out. 
 
Hey, Boris, here's a thought. If you're in the U.S. and watching football tonight, what are you keeping an eye on? Is it the World Cup or is it a certain Lionel Messi or a combination of both, I wonder? 
 
Back to you. 
 
SANCHEZ: Fortunately, Patrick, I have multiple screens going on. Messi, though, will take the big screen. 
 
Patrick Snell, thank you so much. 
 
Brianna?
 <br>[14:44:29]
 
KEILAR: Coming up, the story that will make the outfit I'm wearing today make sense. The "Barbie" Jeeps are in overdrive as the highly anticipated film releases in theaters. CNN is speaking to the stars. We'll have that next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hey, Barbie? Can I come to your house today? 
 
BARBIE: Sure. I don't have anything big planned, just a giant blowout party with all the Barbies and choreography. You should stop by.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So cool. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
KEILAR: Yes, the Dream House never did have stairs. So weird, right?
 
Well, Barbie may be cool on screen, but sales for her movie are forecasted to be smoking hot to the point analysts are expecting it will boost the box office to pre-pandemic levels of profit.
 
And it's all supposed to start today. It's U.S. premiere poised to be a pink shot in the arm to the ailing movie industry as writers and actors are on strike. 
 
Our Sara Sidner sat down with two of the stars of the "Barbie" movie last month, before the actors' strike. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
SARA SIDNER, CNN ANCHOR &amp; SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: All right, I'm going to start with you, Margot.
 <br>[14:49:57]
 
Everyone makes Barbie into who they think she is because she doesn't talk, she doesn't walk. So, we use our imaginations. How did you decide who Barbie was going to be in this film? 
 
MARGOT ROBBIE, ACTRESS": To be honest, Greta knew from the beginning really that she wanted Barbie to have the classic hero's journey. She actually used like Buddha's journey to enlightenment as a reference. 
 
And I was like, OK, wow, I didn't see that coming.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
ROBBIE: But now that you've said it, it does make perfect sense. 
 
And so -- so suddenly, she did have like this framework of a narrative. And within that, we could have all these conversations on so many different levels. 
 
And -- and what we wanted to do about with those conversations is kind of honor the legacy that the 64 years of Barbie has, you know, created, you know, and also bring it into today's day. You know how about -- have culturally relevant conversations. SIDNER: OK, I do have to ask, America, how deliciously ironic is it
 
 that Ryan Gosling's age became the thing that people were talking about, not the woman, but the man for once? 
 
AMERICA FERRERA, ACTRESS: Oh, yes, that's --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SIDNER: It is ironic.
 
FERRERA: Yes. I just heard that that's a thing. 
 
ROBBIE: Yes.
 
FERRERA: You know, that's the -- that's the fate of the Kens in Barbieland is they essentially have to suffer a lot of the fate of women in the real world.
 
ROBBIE: Yes.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
FERRERA: And -- and, you know, it -- it -- it -- it kind of highlights its stupidity, really. 
 
But -- but it's, you know, the movie turns a lot of things on its head. And -- and to -- in my opinion, tells us more about us as humans than -- than really, you know, a movie about dolls. 
 
SIDNER: And, America, you play one of the few characters who is not a doll, who is not a Barbie in the movie. You're a real--life person going through real--life challenges as a working woman. 
 
What happens when you and Barbie meet finally? 
 
FERRERA: I don't want to spoil anything, but it's --
 
ROBBIE: We (INAUDIBLE). 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
SIDNER: Oh, don't spoil it. Give us --
 
ROBBIE: We're just friends.
 
FERRERA: The moment that Gloria and Barbie connect, I just started, like, bawling. And -- and it felt so beautiful that, you know, a grown woman could explore her imagination and her playfulness.
 
And -- and really be enthusiastic about something that she loved and something that was playful and inspiring to her. And that that didn't have to be in contradiction to her as like a grown, serious, professional woman. SIDNER: I have to be honest though, I was not a Barbie-obsessed girl.
 
 I was too busy jumping out of trees and racing boys and trying to be better than the boys. 
 
ROBBIE: I was exactly like you.
 
SIDNER: Did you all play with Barbies? OK.
 
FERRERA: I was not a Barbie -- I was not a Barbie girl. Were you? You --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SIDNER: OK. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ROBBIE: I -- I -- no, I was exactly like you, Sara. I was like doing -- trying to beat the boys at everything. 
 
And I -- I asked my mom before this presser, I was like, mom, do you have any pictures of me like playing with Barbies or opening a Barbie on Christmas or anything like that? It would be really helpful for this upcoming press tour. 
 
SIDNER: Nope.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
ROBBIE: And she was like, no, I couldn't even get you to wear a dress. I was like, oh.
 
FERRERA: I mean, A, like, we couldn't afford Barbies. B, like, I don't know, it's just like didn't -- the world of Barbie didn't feel like it had very much for me in it to be perfectly honest. 
 
But that is what is so beautiful to me about this moment and getting to be a part of this story that is expanding the world of Barbie to include the rest of us. 
 
And what I think the movie gives us is the permission to be more of who we are. That, like, Barbie gets to be -- that we're all Barbie and Barbie gets to be whatever the hell Barbie wants to be. 
 
SIDNER: Margot, what are you hoping to impart to the audience with this film? 
 
ROBBIE: The feeling of, like, yes, it's, like, you want to do this and you want to be a good mom and you want to be a good friend and you want to be a good husband and you want to be an ally and you want to be an activist.
 
But you want to just do your job and you just want to get through the day and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. 
 
If I could put all of that off your shoulders and just say, you're already doing great. You are doing great because you are you and that is enough. That's what I would give. 
 
SIDNER: It's like the erasing of imposters syndrome, right? I think we've all suffered from that. And women more than anyone else. 
 
So that's a beautiful thing. 
 
Did the Barbie sleepover happen? I heard that -- that director, Greta Gerwig, was like, you guys need to have this? 
 
ROBBIE: Yes. And it was so much fun. We had a Barbie sleepover. The Kens were invited to visit, not to stay over, obviously. We all wore our pajamas and ordered room service and we shared beds --
 
FERRERA: It's true.
 
ROBBIE: And we played games and we all discovered how incredibly competitive America is when it comes to games.
 
(LAUGHTER)
 
FERRERA: Let's talk about how Ryan sent a man in a kilt to play bagpipes at us for three minutes and then recite the speech from "Braveheart."
 
ROBBIE: "Braveheart." 
 
FERRERA: That happened. That -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
SIDNER: What?
 <br>[14:55:00]
 
ROBBIE: Just -- it was just amazing. And if that doesn't bond you, I don't know what will. 
 
FERRERA: I still -- I still don't get the joke. Was it an inside joke? 
 
ROBBIE: No. No. It was no relation -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
FERRERA: No, it wasn't? There was no inside joke?
 
ROBBIE: There was no "Braveheart" connection at all.
 
SIDNER: Was he trying to say, like, freedom? Like, what -- he must have been trying to say something. 
 
FERRERA: It was like -- 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
ROBBIE: You'll have to ask Ryan, I guess.
 
FERRERA: I feel like he was rallying us.
 
ROBBIE: He was -- it was --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
FERRERA: Because it was right before we were starting, right?
 
ROBBIE: It was like a -- 
 
FERRERA: He was like, here we go.
 
ROBBIE: Yes, a rallying war cry perhaps, yes. 
 
SIDNER: Ladies, I -- I actually was, like, oh, am I going to see the "Barbie,"
 
But the way you've described it, it's like something I think that girlfriends could go to together and buddies could go together with the kids and just enjoy the ride. 
 
ROBBIE: Oh, yes. It's a party and everyone is invited.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
KEILAR: Thank you to Sara Sidner for that.
 
And we do want to note that "Barbie" is produced by Warner Bros. Pictures, which has the same parent company as CNN. 
 
Boris? 
 
SANCHEZ: A federal judge setting the date for Donald Trump's classified documents case. Will the former president's team be able to push the trial back until after the election? We have details on that straight ahead. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)